VILAS v. MANILA.
220 U. S.

Syllabus.

in the army, having been acquitted of the crime of homicide, alleged 'to have been committed by him in the
Philippines,, by a military court of competent jurisdiction,
proceeding under the authority of the United States,
could not be subsequently tried for the same offense in
a civil court exercising authority in that territory."
In the case at bar the offense of insult to a public official,
covered by the section of the Philippine code, was not
within, the terms of the offense or prosecution under the
ordinance. While it is true that the conduct of the accused was one and the same, two offenses resulted, each
of which had an element not embraced in the other.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands is affirmed.
Affirmed

Dissenting,

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN.

VILAS v. CITY OF MANILA.
TRIGAS v. SAME.
AGUADO v. SAME.
ERROR TO AND APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF
THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
Nos. 53, 54, 207.

Argued February 24, 27, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.

Even if'
there is no remedy adequate to the collection of a claim
against a governmental subdivision when reduced to judgment, a
aintiff having a valid claim is entitled to maintain an action thereon
and reduce it to judgment.
Where the case turned below on the consequence of a change in sovereignty by reason of the cession of the Philippine Islands, the construction of the treaty with Spain of 1898 is involved, and this court
has jurisdiction of an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Philip-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error and Appellants. 220 U. S.
pine Islands .under § 10 of the act of July 1, 1902, c. 1369, 32 Stat.
691, 695.
While military occupation or territorial cession may work a suspension of the governmental functions of municipal corporations, such
occupation or cession does not result in their dissolution.
While there is a total abrogation of the former political relations of
inhabitants of ceded territory, and an abrogation of laws in conflict with the political character of the substituted sovereign, the
great body of-municipal law regulating private and domestic rights
continues in force until abrogated or changed by the new ruler.'
Although the- United States might have extinguished every municipality in the territory ceded by.Spain under the treaty of 1898, it
will not, in view of the practice of nations to the contrary, be presumed to have done so.
The legal entity of the city of Manila survived both its military occupation by, and its cession to, the United States; and, as in law,
the present city as the successor of the former city, is entitled to
the property ,rights of its predecessor, it is also subject to its liabilities.
The cession in the treaty of 1898 of all the public property of Spain in
the Philippine Islands did not include property belonging to municipalities, and the agreement against impairment of property and
private property rights in that treaty applied to the property of
municipalities and claims against municipalities.
One supplying goods to a municipality does so, in the absence of
specific provision, on its general faith and credit, and not as against,
special, funds in its possession; and even if such goods are supplied
for a purpose for which the special funds are held no specific lien is
created thereon.

facts, which involve the liability of the present
city of Manila in the Philippine Islands for claims against
the city of Manila as it existed prior to the cession under
the treaty of 1898, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. FredericR, Coudert and Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury, with whom Mr. Paul Fuller and Mr. Harry Weston

Van Dyke were on the brief, for plaintiff in error and

appellants:
The outstanding obligations of the city of Manila were
not impaired by the change of sovereignty, but were pre-

VILAS v. MANILA.
220 U. S. Argument for Plaintiff in Error and Appellants.
served by the treaty and expressly recognized by the
United States Government.
A municipal corporation is not only a governmental
subdivision but also an association of the members of a
particular community -for the administration of their local
business and affairs in matters largely outside of the sphere
of government as such.
As to the distinction between sovereign rights of government and corporate capacity, see South Carolina v.
United States, 199 U. S. 437, 462; Lloyd v. Mayor, 5 N. Y.
369, 374; Western Fund Society v. Philadelphia,31 Pa. St.
175.
A municipality is not a sovereignty. Metropolitan Ry.
Co. v. District of Columbia, 132 U. S. 1, 9; Merryweather
Claim, Magoon on the Law of Civil Government under
Military Occupation, 407, 414; see also Magoon on Civil
Government, 457-460; 22 Ops. Att. Gen. 526.
After the cession of California it was held by this court
that the Pueblo of San Francisco which had existed as a
municipal organization prior to the cession, continued to
exist as such corporation in spite of the change of sovereignty and that such change of sovereignty left its property rights and obligations unimpaired. - See Townsend v.
Greeley, 5 Wall. 326; Merryman v,. Bourne, 9 Wail. 592;
Moore v. Steinbach, 127 U. S. 70; Los Angeles Milling Co.
v. Los Angeles, 217 U. S. 217; Smith v. Morse, 2 California, 524; Cohas v. Raisin, 3 California, 443; Hart v.
Burnett, 15 California, 530; and as to effect of Civil War,
see New Orleans v. Steamship Co., 20 Wall. 387.
The city of Manila, as at present constituted, is the
successor, of the city of Manila as existing under Spanish
sovereignty, in respect to both its rights and obligations,
and is therefore liable for the ,debts of the municipality
which were outstanding at the tim,e of the cession. Mobile
v. Watson, 116 U. S. 289; Shapleigh v. San Angelo, 167
U. S.. 646; and see Broughton v. Pensacola, 93 U. S. 266;

B48

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error and Appellants. 220 U. S.

Mt. PleasantV. Beckwith, 100 U. S. 514; Mobile v. Watson,
116 U. S. '289; Comianche"Col, Ity v. Lewis, 133 U. S. 198;
Van Hoffman v. City of Qutncy, 4 Wall. 535; Girard v.
Philadelphia,7 Wall. 1; Barnes v. District of Columbia, 91
UJS.540; New' Orleans v. Clark, 95 U. S.644; Meriwether
v. Garrett, 102 U. S. 472; New Orleans v. Morris, 105 U. S.
600; Amy v. Watertown, 130 U.. S.301; Metropolitan Ry.
Co. v. District of Columbia, 132 U. S. 1; District of Columbia
v. Woodbury, 136 U. S.450.
The munficipality of Manila did -not' disappear as a
Jmunicipal government entity upon the ciapture of the
city, but continued to exist and was recognized as so
continuing by the capitulation, the general orders of -the
military authorities, the treaty and the President's instructions to the commission. Gen. Orders No. 4 of
August 15, 1898. -The protocols of the treaty show that
the distinction between sovereign indebtedness and local
obligations was recognized throughout the negotiations.
Sen. Doe. 62, 55th Cong., 3d Ses ., p. 261. The claims of ifs own citizens or subjects which each
Government relinquished, were those "against the other
Government.". Treaty, Art. VIII; 23 Op. Atty. Gen.
181, 190; Taylor's Int. Pub. Law, §§ 165, 168.
.Plaintiff's claims are "property " within the meaning Of
the tre'aty. Soulard v. United States, 4 Pet. 511; United
States v. lieynes, 9 How. 127; O'Reilly v. Brooke, 209 U. S.45, distinguished.
The juristic personality of. municipal corporations and
their liability to suit we're recognized and established by
the Roman law and the Spanish' law, both ancient and
modern. See Digest. of Justinian, Lib. III, Tit. IV, 1, 7;
Ulpian on the Edict, 10; Ibid., 1;'8 Javolenus, extracts
from Cassius, 15; Monro's Translations, Vol. 1, p. 174;
'Sav igny on Jural Relations, translated by Rattigan,
§§ 86 et seq. The same doctrine is declared in the early
Spanish codes. Partida Third, Title II, Law XIII; No-

VILAS v. MANILA.
220 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error and Appellees.

visima Recopilacion, Book VII, Title XX,
Law II; Laws
of the Indies, Book IV, Title XI, Law 1; Spanish Laws
Codified in 1877, Arts. 1, 30; Alcubilla's Diccionario de
la Administracion Espafiola, Vol. 1, pp. 839-863, sub. tit.
Ayuntamientos; Alcubilla, Vol. 1,, p. 872; Vol. 3, pp. 10361038.
The plaintiffs are entitled to the remedies of judgment
and execution for the enforcement of their claims. New
OrleansV. Morris, 105 U. S. 600; Seibert v. Lewis, 122 U. S.
284; Memphis v. United States, 97 U. S. 293; Riggs v.
Johnson County, 6 Wall. 193; Knox County v. Aspinwall,
24 Hlow. 376; Workman v. New York, 179 U. S. 552, 565.
The city of Manila holds the Carriedo Fund as a trustee
and -such fund is liable for obligations incurred in the administration of the Carriedo Water Works. Rep. of Phil.
Com. fer 1900, Vol. 3, p. 49; -1 Ops. Atty. Gen. P. 1. 319,
323, 450, 452, 543; Dillon's Muh. Corp., 4th ed., §§ 19-21;
Vidal v. Girard, 2 HOw. 127; Girard v. Philadelphia, 7
Wall. 1; United States v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322; Commissioners v.. Lucas, 93 U. S. 108, 115; Hunter v. Pittsburgh, 207 U. S. 161, 179; Philadelphiav. Fox, 64 Pa. St.
169, 182'; People v. Hurlbut, 9 Am. Rep. 108.
A trustee may incur liabilities or make expenditures
for the protection of the trust estate, and, a fortiori, for
the performance of the trust itself, and he may indemnify
himself by recourse to the trust property, upon which he
has a lien for this purpose. New v. Nicoll, 73 N. Y. 127;
Noyes v. Blakeman, 6 N. Y. 567, 580, and cases cited;
Van Slyke v. Bush, 123 N. Y. 47.
- Mr. Paul Charlton, with whom Mr. Isaac Adams was
on the brief, for defendant in error and appellees:
As to what constitutes "property," as that word was
used in Art. VIII of the treaty of Paris, see O'Reilly v.
Brooke, 209 U. S; 45.
A contract for furnishing coal, or for collecting taxes

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendant .in Error and AppeUees. 220 U. S.

for one year, or. for furnishing material or performing
labor; all of which. would be concluded, and all rights
thereunder extinguished, by payment or by lapse of time,
were clearly not such "property" as was in the mind of
the commissioners Who concluded the treaty of Paris.
The treaty, especially as illuminated by the protocols,
makes clear distinction between the relation which the
United Stateg was willing to assume toward the island of
Cuba and its affairs, and that which it was willing to assume toward the Philippine Islands and their affairs.
The words "property" and "rights" there guaranteed
were, specifically, those which related to the peaceful
possession of property of all kinds.
The United- States has scrupulously fulfilled the obligation it assumed in Arts. I and VII of the treaty with relation to its responsibility for obligations incurred during
.its occupation of Cuba, and in the settlement and adjudication of claims of its citizens for damaged specified
in said Art. VII. The Spanish Treaty Claims Commission was organized, has performed the-functions of its
creation, and. has been dissolved; no claim which could
rightfully arise under the obligation* assumed in those
articles of the treaty remains undetermined.
The city of Manila, as at present constituted, is not the
successor of the city of Manila as existing under Spanish
.sovereignty in respect to both its rights and obligations,
and is not liable for the debts of the municipality which
were outstanding at the time of the cession.
At the time of- the acquisition of sovereignty by the
United States over the Philippine Islands, the inhabitants
thereof had only such rights as were granted by-the grace
of the United States, and later, such as were secured to
.them under-the treaty of Paris, and the Organic Act of
July 1, 1902, and its amendments.
The juristic personality of municipal corporations and
their liability to suit was not, as claimed by plaintiff,

VILAS v. MANILA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

recognized and established by the Roman law and the
Spanish law, both ancient and 'modern. See Dictionary
of Alcubilla, supplement of 1894.
The plaintiffs are not entitled to the remedies of judgment and execution for the enforcement of their claims.
Hoey v. Baldwin, 1 Phil. Rep. 551.
A municipality has only such implied powers as are
necessary to effectuate the specific grants of its charter,
and- as the charter of the city of Manila neither contains
any authority to assume the obligations of the Ayuntamiento of Manila, nor any words which,. by necessary
legal implication, could be held to include such authority
or obligation, no right existed in favor of plaintiffs in error
which the city of Manila had either authority or obligation to satisfy.
The city of Manila does not hold the Carriedo Fund as
a trustee and such fund is liable for obligations incurred
in the administration of the Carriedo Water Works.
Under the facts in this case and as it is impossible to
separate the moneys or property captured into classes
referable to their sources, there can be no specific responsive liability to the claims of plaintiffs.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error, who were plaintiffs below, are
creditors of the city of Manila as it existed before the
cession of the Philippine Islands to the United States by
the treaty of Paris, December 10, 1898. Upon the theory
that the city 'under its present charter from the government of the Philippine Islands is the same juristic person
and liable upon the obligations of the old city, these actions were brought against it. The Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands denied relief, holding that the present
municipality is a totally different corporate entity and
in no way liable for the debts of the Spanish municipality.

. OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

The fundamental question is whether, notwithstanding
the cession of the Philippine Islands to the United States,
followed by a reincorporation of the city, the present
municipality is liable for the obligations of the city incurred prior to 'the Cession to the United States.
We shall confine ourselves to the question whether the
plaintiffs in error are entitled to judgments against the
city upon their several claims. Whether there is a remedy
adequate to the collection when reduced to-judgment is
not presented by.the record. But 'Wh~ther there is or is
not a remedy, affords no reasbn why the plaintiffs in error
may not reduce their claims to judgment. Mt. Pleasant
v. Beckwith, 100 U. S.514, 530. The city confessedly may
be sued under its existing charter, and that implies at
least a right to judgment if they establish their demands.
The city as now incorporated has succeeded to all Qf
the property rights of the old city and to the right to
enforce all of its causes of action. There is identity of
purpose -between the Spanish and American charters
and substantial, identity of municipal powers. The 'area
and the inhabitants, incorporated are substantially the
same. But for -the change of sovereignty which has
occurred under- the treaty of Paris, the question of the
liability of the city under its~new charter for the debts
of the old city would seem to be of easy solution. The
principal q'uestion would therefore seem to be the legal
consequence of the cession referred to upon the property
rights and civil obligations of the city incurred before the
cession. And so the question was made to turn in the
court below upon the consequence of a'change in soverreignty and a reincorporation of the city by the substituted sovereignty.
This disposes of the question of the jurisdiction of this
court grounded upon the absence from 'the petition of
the plaintiffs of any distinct claim under the treaty of
Paris, since under § 10 of the Philippine Organic Act

VILAS v. MANILA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of July 1, 1902, this court is given jurisdiction to review
any final decree or judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands where any treaty of the United States
"is involved." That treaty was necessarily "involved,"
since neither the court below nor this court can determine
the continuity of the municipality nor the liability of the
city as it now exists for the obligation of the old city,
without considering the effect of the change-of sovereignty
resulting from that treaty. See Reavis v. Fianza, 215
U. S. 16, 22.
The historical continuity of a, municipality embracing
the inhabitants of the territory now occupied by the city
of Manila is impressive. Before the conquest of the
Philippine Islands by Spain, Manila existed. The Spaniards found on the spot now occupied a populous and
fortified community of Moros. In 1571 they occupied
what was then and is now known as Manila, and established it as a municipal corporation. In 1574 there was
conferred upon it the title of "Illustrious and ever loyal
city of Manila." From time to time there occurred
amendments, and, on January 19, 1894, there was a reorganization of the dty government under a royal decree
of that date. Under that charter there was power to
incur debts for municipal purposes and power to sue and
be sued. The obligation§ here in suit were incurred 'under
the charter referred to, and are obviously obligations
strictly within the provision of the municipal power.
To pay judgments upon such debts it was the duty of the
Ayuntamiento of Manila, which was the corporate name
of the old city, to make provision in its budget.
The contention that the liability of the city upon such
obligations was destroyed by a mere change of sovereignty
is obviously one which is without a shadow of moral
force, and, if true, must result from settled principles of
rigid law. While the contracts from which the claims
in suit resulted were in progress, war between the United
VOL. CCxx-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

States and Spain ensued. On August 13, 1898, the city
was occupied by the forces of this Government and its
affairs conducted by military authority. On July 31,
1901, the present incorporating act was passed, and the
city since that time has been an autonomous municipality.
The charter in force is act 183 of the Philippine Commission and now may be found as chapters 68 to 75 of the
Compiled Acts of the Philippine Commission. The first
section of the charter of 1901 reads as follows:
"The inhabitants of the city of Manila, residing within
the territory described in section 2 of this act, are hereby
constituted a municipality, which shall be known as the
cit y of Manila and by that name shall have perpetual
succession, and shall l)ossess all the rights of property
herein granted or heretofore enjoyed and possessed by the
city of Manila as organized under Spanish sovereignty."
The boundaries described in § 2 include substantially
the area and inhabitants which had theretofore constituted the old city.
By § 4 of the same act the government of the city was
invested in a municipal board.
Section 16 grants certain legislative powers to the
board, and provides that it shall " take possession of all
lands, buildings, offices, books, papers, records, moneys,
credits, securities, assets, accounts, or other property or
rights belonging to the former city of Manila or pertaining to the business or interests thereof, and, subject to
the provisions herein set forth, shall have control of all
its property except the building known as the Ayuntaniento, provision for the occupation and control of which
is made in § 15 of this act; shall collect taxes and other
revenues, and apply the same in accordance with app)ropriations, as hereinbefore provided, to the payment
of the municipal expenses; shall supervise and control
the. discharge of official duties by subordinates; shall
institute judicial proceedings to recover property and

VILAS v. MANILA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

funds of the city wherever found or otherwise to protect
the interests of the city, and shall defend all suits against
the city," etc.
Section 69 of the charter expressly preserved "all city
ordinances and orders in force at the time of the passage
of this act and not, inconsistent herewith,'i',ntil modified
or repealed by ordinances passed under this act.
Section 72 is the repealing clause, and provides for the
repeal of "all acts, orders and regulations" which are inconsistent with the provisions of the act.
The charter contains no reference to the obligations
or contracts of the old city.
If we understand the argument against the liability,
here asserted, it proceeds mainly upon the theory that
inasmuch as the predecessor of the present city, the Ayuntamiento of Manila, was a corporate entity created by the
Spanish government, when the sovereignty of Spain in the
islands was terminated by the treaty of cession, if not. by
the capitulation of August 13, 1908i the municipality
ipso facto disappeared for all purposes. This conclusion
is reached upon the supposed analogy to the doctrine
of principal and agent, the death of the principal ending
the agency. So complete is the supposed death and annihilation of a municipal entity by extinction of sovereignty of the creating State that it was said in one of the
opinions below that all of the public property of Manila
passed to the United States, "for a consideration, which
was paid," and that the United States was therefore
justified in creating an absolutely new municipality and
endowing it with all of the assets of the defunct city, free
from any obligation to the creditors of that city. And so
the matter was dismissed in the Trigas Case by the Court
of First Instance, by the suggestion that "the plaintiff
may have a claim against the crown of Spain, which has
received from the United States payment for that done
by the plaintiff."

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

We are unable to agree with the argument. It loses
sight of the dual character of municipal corporations.
They exercise powers which are governmental and powers
which are of a private or business character. In the one
character a municipal corporation is a governmental subdivision, and for that purpose exercises by delegation a
part of the sovereignty of the State. In the other character it is a mere legal entity or juristic person. In the
latter character it stands for the community in the administration of local affairs wholly beyond the sphere of
the public purposes for which its governmental powers are
conferred.
The distinction is observed in South Carolina v. United
States, 199 U. S.437? 461, where Lloyd V. Mayor of New
York, 5 N. Y. 369, 374, and Western Savings Society v.
Philadelphia, 31 Pa. St. 175, are cited and approved.
In Lloyd v. Mayor of New York, supra, it is said:
"The corporation of the city of New York possesses
two kinds of power, one governmental and public, and,
to the extent they are held and exercised, is clothed with
sovereignty, the other private, and to the extent they are
held and exercised, is a legal individual. The former
are given and used for public purposes, the latter for
private purposes. While in the exercise of the former,
the corporation is a -municipal government' and while in
the exercise of the fatter, is a corporate, legal individual."
See also Dillon Mun.CQrp. 66, 4th ed.; City of Peters=
burg _v. Applegarth's. Administrator, 26 Gratt.'321, 343;
and Oliver v. Woreester, 102 Massachusetts, 489.
In view of the dual character of municipal corporations
there is no public reason for presuming their total dissolution as a mere consequence of military occupation or
territorial cession. The suspension of such governmental
functions as are obviously incompatible with the new
political relations thus brought about may be presumed.

VILAS v. MANILA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But no such implication may be reasonably
yond that result.
* Such a conclusion is in harmony with the
ciples of public law as declared by this and
and expounded by the text books upon, the
and international law. Taylor International

indulged be-.
settled prinOther courts
laws of war
Public Law,

§ 578.
That there is a total abrogation of the former political
relations of the inhabitants of the ceded region is obvious.
That all laws theretofore in force which are in conflict
with the political character, constitution or institutions
of the substituted sovereign lose their force, is also plain.
Alvarez v. United States, 216 U. S. 167. But it is equally
settled in the same public law that that great body of
municipal law which regulates private and domestic rights
continues in force until abrogated or changed by the new
ruler. In Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Co. v.
McGlinn, 114 U. S. 542, 546, it was said:
"It is a general rule of public law, recognized and acted
upon by the United States, that whenever political jurisdiction and legislative power over any territory are
transferred from one nation or sovereign- to another,
the municipal laws- of the country, that is, laws which
are intended for the protection of private rights, continue
in force until abrogated or changed by the new government or sovereign. By the cession public property passes
from one government to the other, but private property
remains as before, and with it those municipal laws which
are designed to secure its peaceful use and enjoyment.
As a matter of course, all laws;*,ordinances, and regulations
in conflict with the political character, institutions and
constitution of the new government are at once displaced.
Thus, upon a cession of political jurisdiction and legislative p6wer-and the latter is involved in the former-to
the United States, the laws of the country in support
of an established religion, or abridging the freedom of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
.Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

press, or authorizing cruel and unusual punishments,
and the like, would at once cease to be of obligatory force
without any declaration to that effect; and the laws of the
country on other subjects would necessarily be superseded by existing laws of the new government upon the
same matters. But with respect to other laws affecting
the possession, use and transfer of property, and designed
to secure good order and peace in the community, and
promote its health and prosperity, which are strictly of a
municipal character, the rule is general, that a change of
government leaves them in force until, by direct action of
the new government, they are altered or repealed."
The above language was quoted with approval in
Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, 298.
That the United States might, by virtue of its situation
under a treaty ceding full title, have utterly extinguished
every municipality which it found in existence in the
Philippine Islands may be conceded. That it did so in
view of the practice of nations to the contrary is not to
be presumed and can only be established by cogent evidence.
That during military occupation the affairs of the city
were in a large part administered by officials put in place
by military order (lid not operate to dissolve the corporation or relieve it from liability upon obligations incurred
before the occupation nor those created for municipal
purposes by the administrators of its affairs while its old
officials were displaced. New Orleans v. Steamship Co.,
20 Wall. 387, 394. During that occupation and military
administration the business of the city was carried on as
usual. Taxes were assessed and taxes collected and expended for local purposes, and many of the officials carryJng on the government were those found in office when the
city was occupied. The continuity of the corporate city
was not inconsistent with military occupation or the con-

stitution or institutions of the -occupying power.

This

VILAS v. MANILA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is made evident by the occurrences at the time of capitulation. Thus the articles of capitulation concluded in
these words: "This

city, its inhabitants

and

its private property of all descriptions are placed under
the special safeguard of the faith and honor of the American Army." This was quoted in President McKinley's
Commisinstructions of April 7, 1900, to the Philippine
sion, and touching this he said: "I believe that this pledge
has been faithfully kept." And the commission was
directed to labor for the full performance of this obligation. This instruction was in line with and in fulfillment of the eighth article of the treaty of Paris of
December 10, 1898. Under the third article of that
treaty the archipelago known as the Philippine Islands
was ceded to the United States, the latter agreeing to
pay to Spain the sum of twenty million dollars. Under
the first paragraph of the eighth article Spain relinquished
to the United States "all buildings, wharves, barracks,
forts, structures, public highways and other immovable
property which, in conformity with law, belong to the public domain, and as such belong to the crown of Spain."
It is under this clause, in connection with the clause agreeing to pay to Spain twenty million dollars for the cession
of the Philippine group, that the contention that all of the
public rights of the city of Manila were acquired by the
United States, which country was therefore justified, as absolute owner, in granting the property rights so acquired to
what is called the""absolutely new corporation," created
thereafter. But the qualifying words touching property
rights relinquished by Spain limit the relinquishment to
"property which, in conformity With law, belongs to the
public domain, and as such belongs to the crown of Spain."
It did not affect property which did not, in "conformity
with law, belong to the crown of Spain." That it was not
intended' to apply to property which, " in conformity with
law," belonged to the city of Manila as a municipal cof-

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

poration is clear. This is demonstrated by the second
paragraph of the same article, which reads: And it is
hereby declared that the relinquishment or cession, as
the case may be, to which the preceding paragraph refers,
cannot in any respect impair the property or rights which
by law belong to the peaceful possession of property of
all kinds, of provinces, municipalities, public or private
establishments. . . . having legal capacity to acquire and possess property in the aforesaid territory
"
renounced or ceded, or .of private individuals.
Thus the property and property rights of municipal corporations were protected and safeguarded precisely as were
the property and property rights of individuals.
That., the cession did not operate as an extinction or
dissolution of corporations is herein recognized, for the
stipulation against impairment of their property rights has
this plain significance.
The conclusion we reach that the legal entity survived
both the military occupation and the cession which followed finds support in the cases which hold that the
Pueblos of San Francisco and Los Angeles, which existed
as municipal organizations prior to the cession of California by Mexico, continued to exist with their community and property rights intact. Cohas v. Raisin, 3 California, 443; Hart v. Burnett, 15 California, 530; Townsend
v. Greeley, 5 Wall. 326; Merryman v. Bourne, 9 Wall.
592, 602; More v. Steinbach, 127 U. S. 70; Los Angeles
Milling Co. v. Los Angeles, 217 U. S.217.
Was corporate identity and corporate liability extinguished as a necessary legal result of the new charter
granted in 1901 by the Philippine Commission? The
inhabitants of the old city are the incorporators of the
new. There is substantially identity of area. There are
some changes, in the form of government and some changes
in corporate powers and methods of administration. The
new corporation is endowed with all of the property and

VILAS v. MANILA.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

property rights of the old. It has the same power to sue
and be sued which the former corporation had. There
is not the slightest suggestion that the new corporation
shall not succeed to the contracts and obligations of the
old corporation. Laying out of view any question of the
constitutional guarantee against impairment of the obligation of contracts, there is, in the absence of express
legislative declaration of a contrary purpose, no reason
for supposing that the reincorporation of an old municipality is intended to permit an escape from the obligations
of the old, to whose property and rights it has succeeded.
The juristic identity of the corporation has been in no
wise affected, and, in law, the present city is in every legal
sense the successor of the old. As such it is entitled to
the property and property rights of the predecessor corporation, and is, in law, subject to all of its liabilities.
Broughton v. Pensacola, 93 U. S. 266; Mount Pleasant v.
Beckwith, 100 U. S. 520; Mobile v. Watson, 116 U. S. 289;
Shapleigh v. San Angelo, 167 U. S. 646, 655; O'Connor v.
Memphis, 6 Lea, 730; Colchester v. Seaber, 3 Burrows, 1866,
1870, in which case, when a municipality became disabled to act and obtained a new charter, in an action upon
an obligation of the old corporation, there was judgment
for the creditor, Lord Mansfield saying:
"Many corporations, for want of legal magistrates,
have lost their activity, and obtained new charters.
Maidstone, Radnor, Carmartben, and many more are
in the same case with Colchester. And yet it has never
been disputed but that the new charters revive and give
activity to the old corporation; except, perhaps, in that
case in Levinz, where the corporation had a new name;
and even there the court made- no doubt. Where the
question has arisen upon any remarkable metamorphosis,
it has always been determined that they remain the same,
as to debts and 'rights.'"
Morris & Cummings v. State, 63 Texas, 728, 730.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

In Shapleigh.v. San Angelo, supra, this court said in a
similar, case:
"The State's plenary power over its municipal corporations to change their organization, to modify their
method of internal government, or to abolish them altogether, is not restricted by contracts entered into by the
municipality with its creditors or with private parties.
An absolute repeal of a municipal charter is therefore
effectual so far as it abolishes the old corporate organization; but when the same or substantially the same
inhabitants are erected into a new corporation, whether
with extended or restricted territorial limits, such new
corporation is treated as in law the successor of the old
one, entitled to its property rights, and subject to its liabilities."
The cases of Tr.igas and Vilas went off upon demurrers,
and-no question of remedy arises here.
The appeal of Aguado is from a decree upon a final
hearing denying him all relief.
That all three of the plaintiffs in error are entitled to
proceed to judgment when they shall establish their several
claims is obvious from what we have said. But in the
Agua'do case it is sought to establish his claim as a charge
against certain property and funds held by the city as
trustee, known as the Carriedo fund. In 1734 one Don
Francisco Carriedo y Perodq bequeathed to the city a fund
for the establishment of waterworks, to be kept as a separate fund and devoted to the erection and maintenance
.of the works. This fund was loyally kept, and greatly
increased and was enlarged by a, special tax upon, meat,
devoted to that purpose, The works were finally completed in 1878, and have been since operated by the city,
the income and special tax going to maintenance. Certain
securities belonging to the fund are now held by the ciuy,
the income being applied to the operation of the works.
Aguado took a contract to supply coal for the use of the

VILAS v. MANILA.
220 U. S.

363

Opinion of the Court.

Carriedo works and made a deposit to guarantee the contract. When the city was occupied by the American
army it was indebted to him for coal so supplied, as well
as for the deposit so made. That the coal was bought
for-and used in the operation of the Carriedo works is not
denied. But there is no evidence that the credit was
given to the Carriedo Fund so held in trust under the will
of Carriedo. The contract was made with the Ayuntamiento of Manila, just as all other contracts for city supplies or works were made. The contract not having been
made with special reference to the liability of the fund
held in trust by the city, but apparently upon the general
credit of the city, we are not disposed to reverse the judgment of the court below, holding that the claim of Aguado
did not constitute a charge upon the Carriedo fund.
Aguado is, nevertheless, entitled to a judgment. The
designation of' the city in the petition as trustee may be
regarded as descriptive. The debt having been incurred
by the city, it must be regarded as a city liability. Taylor
v. Davis, 110 U. S. 330, 336.
Our conclusion is that the decree in the Aguado case
must be reversed and the case remanded, with direction
to render judgment and such other relief as may seem
in conformity with law. The judgments ii the Trigas
and Vilas cases will be reversed and the cases remanded
with direction to overrule the respective demurrers, and
for such other action as may be consistent with law, and
consistent with this opinion.

