OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
IN CHAMBERS

HUGHES

ET A.

v. THOMPSON

ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS AND/OR PROHIBITION

No. A-719.

Decided January 25, 1974

Motion for leave to file a petition for writ of mandamus and/or
prohibition to require the District Court to rule on petitioners'
motion to dismiss the indictment against them prior to the arraignment, is denied, since whether the latter motion should be disposed
of prior to the arraignment rests in the District Court's sound
discretion.

Circuit Justice.
This motion for leave to file a petition for writ of
mandamus and/or prohibition has been presented to me
after a like motion was denied by the Court of Appeals
on January 24, 1974. The matter concerns proceedings
before the United States District Judge in Reno, Nevada,
scheduled for a hearing at 9:30 a. m. P. d. t. today,
January 25, 1974, which is only a little more than an
hour from the time in which I- write this short opinion.
The movants have been indicted for alleged manipulation of the stock of an airline company prior to its
acquisition about five years ago-an acquisition which
was approved by the Civil Aeronautics Board. Movants have filed with the District Court a motion to
dismiss the indictment on the grounds that it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute any offense against
the United States and fails to inform movants of the
nature of the cause of the accusation within the meaning
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

1301

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion in .Chambers

415 U. S.

of the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution. Movants desire that their motion to dismiss be ruled upon
prior to the arraignment. They asked the District Judge
for a stay of all proceedings until the motion to dismiss
the indictment was ruled upon. This stay was denied
by the District Judge and, as noted, the Court of Appeals
denied relief.
In cases such as the present one, where the factor of
time is all important, it is customary (where possible) to
consult other members of the Court before acting so
that if there is a member of the Court available who feels
that relief should be granted that fact can be taken into
consideration. If, however, none of the Justices available feel relief should be granted then the prior consultation with those who are available is some aid to
counsel seeking the relief.
Some Members of the Court are out of the city at the
present time, as the Court is in recess. " I have talked with
five who are present and they are of the opinion that the
motion to file should be denied. That is my view. Under
the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure the question of
the sufficiency of the indictment "shall be noticed by the
court at any time." Rule 12 (b) (2). Whether the motion should be disposed of prior to the arraignment rests
in the sound discretion of the District Court.* The District Court certainly has the power to follow that course
and sometimes it may be important to prevent harassment or the use of other unconstitutional procedures
against an accused. But it would take an extremely
unusual case for an appellate judge to direct a district
judge that he should exercise his discretion by postponing
WMandatory language directing when a motion shall be ruled upon

is contained in Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 12 (b) (4) which states that
a motion raisiig defenses or objections "shall be determined before
trial unless the court orders that it be deferred for determina:ion at
the trial of the general issue."

HUGHES v. THOMPSON
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

an arraignment until after the motion to dismiss the
indictment has been resolved. As stated in Costello v.
United-States, 350 U. S. 359, 364:
"In a trial on the merits, defendants are entitled to
a strict observance of all the rules designed to bring
about a fair verdict. Defendants are not entitled,
however, to a rule which would result in interminable
delay but add nothing to the assurance of a fair
trial."
Motion denied.

