OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Syllabus

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
COUNTY

ET AL.

415 U. S.

V. MARICOPA

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARIZONA

No. 72-847. Argued November 6, 1973Decided' February 26, 1974
[his is an' appeal from C decision of the Arizona Supreme Court
upholding the constitutionality of an Arizona statute requiring
a year's residence in a county as a condition to an indigent's
receiving nonemergency hospitalization or medical care at the
county's expense. 'Held,: The durational residence requirement,
in violation of the Equal Protection Clause, creates an "invidious
classification" that impinges on the right of interstate travel by
denying newcomers "basic necessities of life." Shapiro v. Thompson, 394 U. S. 618. Pp. 253-270.
,(a) Such a requirement, since it operates to penalize indigents
for exercising their constitutional right of interstate migration,
must be justified by a compelling state interest. Shapiro v.
Thompson, supra; Dunn v. Blumstein, 405 U. S. 330. Pp. 253-262.
(b) The State has not shown that the durational residence
requirement is "legitimately defensible" in that it furthers a
compelling state interest, and none of the purposes asserted as
justification for the requirement-fiscal s,,vings, inhibiting migration of indigents generally, deterring indigents from taking up
residence in the county solely to utilize the medical facilities, protection of longtime residents who have contributed to the community particularly by paying taxes, -maintaining public Support
of the county hospital, administrative convenience in determining
bona fide residence, prevention of fraud, and budget predictability-satisfies the State's burden of justification and insures
that the State, in pursuing its asserted objectives, has chosen means
that do not unnecessarily impinge on constitutionally protected
interests. Pn. 262-269.
108 Ariz. 373, 498 P. 2d 461, reversed and remanded.
MARSHALL, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BRENNAN, STEwART, WHITE, and POWELL, JJ., joined. BURGER, C. J., and
BLACzuUN, J., concurred in the result. DOUGLAS, J., filed a separate

MEMORIAL-HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250
opinion, post, p. 270.
post, p. 277.

251

Opinion of the Court
REHNQUIST,

J., filed a dissenting opinion,

Mary M. Schroeder argued the cause for appellants.
With her on the brief was John P. Frank.
William J. Carter III argued the cause and filed a brief
for appellees.*
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents an appeal from a decision of the
Arizona Supreme Court upholding an Arizona statute
requiring a year's residence in a county as a condition to
receiving nonemergency hospitalization or medical caie
at the county's -expense. The constitutional question
presented is whether this durational residence requirement is repugnant to the Equal Protection Clause as
applied by this Court in Shapiro v. Thompson, 394 U. S.
618 (1969).
I
Appellant Henry Evaro is an indigent suffering from
a chronic asthmatic and bronchial illness. In early June
1971, Mr. Evaro moved from New Mexico to Phoenix
in Maricopa County, Arizona. On July 8, 1971, Evaro
had A severe respiratory attack and was sent by his
attending physician to appellant Memorial Hospital,
a nonprofit private community hospital. Pursuant to
the Arizona statute governing medical care for indigents,
Memorial notified the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors that it had in its charge an indigent who might
qualify for county care and requested that Evaro be
transferred to the County's public hospital facility. In
accordance with the approved procedures, Memorial also
*Sandor 0. Shuch and John J. Relihan filed a brief for the Legal
Aid Society sf Maricopa County as amicus curiae urging reversal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973'
Opinion of the Court

415 U. S.

claimed reimbursement from the County in the amount
of $1,202.60, for the care and services it had provided
Evaro.
Under Arizona law, the individual county governments
are charged with the mandatory duty of providing necessary hospital and medical care for their indigent sick.1
But the statute requires an indigent to have been a resident of the County for the preceding 12 months in order
to be eligible for free nonemergency medical care.
Maricopa County refused to admit Evaro to its public
hospital, or to reimburse Memorial solely because Evaro
had not been a resident of the County for the preceding
year. Appellees do not dispute that Evaro is an indigent
or that he is a bona fide resident of Maricopa County.'

This action was instituted to determine whether
appellee Maricopa County was obligated to provide
medical care for Evaro or was liable to Memorial
for the costs it incurred because of the County's refusal
to do so. This controversy necessarily requires an adjudication of the constitutionality of the Arizona dura1

Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 11-291 (Supp. 1973-1974).
11-297A (Supp. 1973-1974) provides in relevant part
that:
"Except in emergency cases when immediate hospitalization or
medical care is necessary for the preservation of life or limb no
person shall be provided hospitalization, medical care or outpatient
relief under the provisions of this article without first filing with
a member of the board of supervisors of the county in which he
resides a statement in writing, subscribed and sworn to under
oath, that he is an indigent as shall be defined by rules and regulations of the state department of economic security, an unemployable totally dependent upon the state or county 'government for
financial support, or an employable of sworn low income without
suffirient funds to provide himself necessary hospitalization and
medical care, and that he has been a resident of the county for the
preceding twelve months." (Emphasis added.)
3 Thus, the question of the rights of transients to medical caTe is
not presented by this case.
2Section

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

253

Opinion of the Court

tional residence requirement for providing free medical
care to indigents.
The trial court held the residence requirement unconstitutional as a violation of the Equal Protection
Clause. In a prior three-judge federal court suit against
Pinal County, Arizona, the District Court had also declared the residence requirement unconstitutional and
had enjoined its future application in Pinal County.
Valenciano v.

1971).'

Bateman, 323

F.

Supp.

600

(Ariz.

Nonetheless, the Arizona Supreme Court upheld

the challenged requirement. To resolve this conflict between a federal court and the highest court of the State,
we noted probable jurisdiction, 410 U. S. 981 (1973),
and we reverse the judgment of the Arizona Supreme
Court.
II
In

determining whether the challenged

durational

residence provision violates the Equal Protection Clause,
we must first determine what burden of justification the
classification created thereby must meet, by looking to
the nature of the classification and the individual interests affected.'
The Court considered similar durational
4 Arizona's intermediate appellate court had also declared the
durational residence requirement unconstitutional in Board of Supervisors, Pima County v. Robinson, 10 Ariz. App. 238, 457 P. 2d
951 (1969), but its decision was vacated as moot by the Arizona
Supreme Court. 105 Ariz. 280, 463 P. 2d 536 (1970).
An Arizona one-year durational residence requirement for care at
state mental health facilities was declared unconstitutional in
Vaughan v. Bower, 313 F. Supp. 37 (Ariz.), aff'd, 400 U. S. 884
(1970). See n. 11, infra.
A Florida one-year durational residence requirement for medical
care at public expense was found unconstitutional in Arnold v. Halifax
Hospital Dist., 314 F. Supp. 277 (MD Fla. 1970), and Crapps v.
Duval County Hospital Auth., 314 F. Supp. 181 (MD Fla. 1970).
5
E. g., Weber v. Aetna Cas. & Surety Co., 406 U. S. 164, 173
(1972); Dunn v. Blumstein, 405 U. S. 330, 335 (1972).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

415 U. S.

residence requirements for welfare assistance in Shapiro
v. Thompson, 394 U. S. 618 (1969). The Court observed
that those requirements created two classes of needy residents "indistinguishable from each other except that one
is composed of residents who have resided a year or more,
and the second of residents who have resided less than a
year, in the jurisdiction. On the basis of this sole difference the first class [was] granted and second class [was]
denied welfare aid upon which may depend the ability.., to obtain the very means to subsist-food, shelter,
and other necessities of life."
Id., at 627. The
Court found that because this classification impinged on
the constitutionally guaranteed right of interstate travel,
it was to be judged by the standard of whether it promoted a compelling state interest.0 Finding such aninterest wanting, the Court held the challenged residence
requirements unconstitutional.
Appellees argue that the residence requirement before
us is distinguishable from those in Shapiro, while appellants urge that Shapiro is controlling. We agree with
appellants that Arizona's durational repidence requirement for free medical care must be justified by a compelling state interest and that, such interests being lacking,
the requirement is unconstitutional.
-

III
The right of interstate travel has repeatedly been
recognized as a basic constitutional freedom.7 Whatever
6394

U. S., at 63t.

See also id., at 642-644

(STEwART,

J.,

concurring).
7Dunn v. Blumstein, supra; Shapiro v. Thompson, '394 U. S.
618 (i969); see Wyman v. Lopez, 404 U. S. 1055 (1972); Oregon v.
Mitchell, 400 U-S. i1p, 237 (1970) (separate opinion of BRENNAN,
WN ITh, and MARSHAmL, JJ.), 285-286 (STEwART, J., concurring and
dissenting, with whom BuRGER, C. J., and BLACKMUN, J., joined);

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

255

Opinion of the Court

its ultimate scope, however, the right to travel was
involved in only a limited sense in Shapiro. The Court
was there concerned only with the right to migrate, "with
intent to settle and abide" 8 or, as the Court put it, "to
migrate, resettle, find a new job, and start a new life."
Id., at 629.
Even a bona fide residence requirement would burden the right to travel, if travel meant
merely movement. But, in Shapiro, the Court explained
that "[t] he residence requirement and the one-year waiting-period requirement are distinct and independent prerequisites" for assistance and only the latter was held to
be unconstitutional. Id., at 636. Later, in invalidating a durational residence requirement for voter registration on the basis of Shapiro, we cautioned that our
decision was not intended to 'cast doubt on the validity
of appropriately defined and uniformly applied bona fide
residence requirements." Dunn v. Blumstein, 405 U. S.
330, 342 n. 13 (1972).
IV
The appellees argue that the instant county residence
requirement is distinguishable from the state residence
requirements in Shapiro,in that the former penalizes, not
interstate, but rather intrastate, travel. Even were we to
draw a constitutional distinction between interstate and
Wyman v. Bowens, 397 U. S. 49 (1970); United States v. Guest, 383-U. S. 745, 757-759 (1966); cf. Griffin v, Breckenridge, 403 U. S. 88,
105-106 (1971); Demiragh v. DeVos, 476 F. 2d 403 (CA2 1973).
See generally Z. Chafee, Three Human Rights in the Constitution of
1787, pp. 171-181, 187 et seq. (1956).
8
See King v. New Rochelle Municipal Housing Auth., 442 F. 2d
646, 648 n. 5 (CA2 1971); Cole v. Housing Authority of the City of
Newport, 435 F. 2d 807, 811 (CAI 1970); Wellford v. Battaglia,343
F. Supp. 143, 147 (Del. 1972); cf. Trua v. R-aich, 239 U. S. 33, 39
(1915); Note, Shapiro v. Thompson" Travel, Welfare and the Constitution, 44.N. Y. U. L. Rev. 989, 1012 (1969).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

415 U. S.

intrastate travel,: a question we do not now consider,
such a distinction would not -support the judgment
of the'Arizona court in the case before us. Appellant
Evaro has been effectively penalized for his interstate
migration, although this was accomplished under the
guise of a county residence requirement. What would
be uncongtitutional if done directly by the State can
no more readily be accomplished by a county at
the State's direction. The Arizona Supreme Court could
have construed the waiting-period requirements to apply
to intrastate but not interstate migrants; I but it did not
do so, and "it is not our function to construe a state
statute contrary to the construction given it by the highest court of a State." O'Brien v. Skinner, 414 U. S. 524,
531 (1974).
V
Although any durational residence requirement impinges to some extent on the right to travel, the Court
in Shapiro did not declare such a requirement to be per se
unconstitutional. - The Court's holding was conditioned,
394 U. S., at 638 n. 21, bj; the caveat that some "waiting-ppriod or residence requirements... may not be penalties upon the exercise of the constitutional right of interstate travel."- The amount of impact required to give
9

Appellees argue that the County should be able to apply a
durational residence requirement to preserve the quality of services
provided its longfime residents because of their ties to the commumiy and the previous contributions they have made, particularly
through 'past payment of taxes. It would seem inconsistent to
argue that the residence requirement should be construed to bar
longtime Arizona residents, even if unconstitutional as applied to
persons migrating into Maricopa County from outside the State.
Surely, longtime residents of neighboring counties have more ties with
Maricopa County and equity in its public programs, as through past
payment of state taxes, than do migrants from distant States. This
"contributory" rationale is-discussed, infra, at 266.

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

257

Opinion of the Court

rise to the compelling-state-interest test was not made
clear."0 The Court spoke of the requisite impact in two
ways. First, we considered whether the waiting period
would deter migration:
"An indigent who desires to migrate ...will doubtless hesitate if he knows that he must risk making
the move without the possibility of falling back on
state welfare assistance during his first year of residence, when his need may be most acute." Id.,
at 629.
Second, the Court considered the extent to which the
residence requirement served to penalize the exercise of
the right to travel.
The appellees here argue that the denial of nonemergency medical care, unlike the denial of welfare, is
not apt to deter migration; but it is far from clear that
the challenged statute is unlikely to have any deterrent
effect. A person afflicted with a serious respiratory ailment, particularly an indigent whose efforts to provide
a living for his family have been inhibited by his incapacitating illness, might well think of migrating to the
clean dry air of Arizona, where relief from his disease
could also bring relief from unemployment and poverty.
But he may hesitate if he knows that he must make the
move without the possibility of falling back on the State
for medical care should his condition still plagu& him or
grow more severe during his first year of residence.
It is true, as appellees argue, that there is no evidence
in the record before us that anyone was actually deterred
from traveling by the challenged restriction. But neither
did the majority in Shapiro find any reason "to dispute
the 'evidence that few welfare recipients have in fact been
10 For a discussion of the problems posed by this ambiguity, see
Judge Coffin's perceptive opinion in Cole v. Housing Authority of
the City of Newport, 435 F. 2d 807 (CAI 1970).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

415 U. S.

deterred [from moving] by residence requirements.'
Indeed, none of the litigants, had themselves been
deterred."
Dunn, 405 U. S., at 340 (citations
omitted). An attempt to distinguish Shapiro by urging
that a durational residence requirement for voter registration did not deter travel, was found to be a "fundamental misunderstanding of the law" in Dunn, supra, at
339-340: 11
"Shapiro did not rest upon a finding that denial of
welfare actually deterred travel. Nor have other
'right to travel' cases in this Court always relied on
the presence of actual deterrence. In Shapiro we
explicitly stated that the compelling-state-interest
test -would be triggered by 'any classification which
serves to penalize the exercise of that right [to
travel] .

.

. .'"

(Emphasis in original; footnote

omitte4.)
Thus, Shapiro and Dunn stand for the proposition that
a classification which "operates to penalize those persons ... who have exercised their constitutional right of
interstate migration," must be justified by a compelling
state interest. Oregon v. Mitchell, 400 U. S. 112, 238
(1970) (separate opinion of BRENNAN, WHirE, and
MARSHALL,

JJ.)

(emphasis added).'

Although any

durational residence requirement imposes a potential cost
on migration, the Court in Shapiro cautioned that some
"In Vaugh'an v. Bower, 313 F. Supp. 37 (Ariz.), aff'd, 400 U. S.
884 (1970), a federal court struck down an Arizona law permitting
the director of a state mental hospital to return to the State of
his prior residence, any indigent patient who had not been a resident of Arizona for the year preceding his civil commitment. It is
doubtful tha. the challenged law could have had any deterrent
effect on migration, since few people consider being committed to a
mental hospital vdi- they decide to take up residence in a new
StIte. See also Alfeldt v. Whitcomb, 319 F. Supp. 69 ( "D Ind.
1970), aff'd, 405 U. S. 1034 (1972).

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

259

Opinion of the Court

"waiting-period[s] ... may not be penalties." 394 U. S.,
at 638 n. 21. In Dunn v. Blumstein, supra, the Court
found that the denial of the franchise, "a fundamental
political right," Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U. S. 533, 562
(1964), was a penalty requiring application of the compelling-state-interest test. In Shapiro, the Court found
denial of the basic "necessities of life" to be a penalty.
Nonetheless, the Court has declined to strike down state
statutes requiring one year of residence as a condition
to lower tuition at state institutions of higher education. 2
Whatever the ultimate parameters of the Shapiro penalty analysis," it is at least -clear that medical care is a3
much "a basic necessity of life" to an indigent as welfare
assistance. 4 And, governmental privileges or benefits
necessary to basic sustenance have often been viewed
as being of greater constitutional significance than less
essential forms of governmental entitlements. See, e. g.,
Shapiro, supra; Goldberg v. kelly, 397 U. S. 254, 264
(1970); Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp., 395 U. S. 337,
340-342 (1969). It would be odd, indeed, to find that the
State of Arizona was required to afford Evaro welfare
assistance to keep him from the discomfort of inadequate
housing or the pangs of hunger but could deny him the
12

See Vlandis v. Kline, 412 U. S. 441, 452-453, n. 9 (1973).

'3

For example, the Shapiro Court cautioned that it meant to

"imply no view of the validity of waiting-period or residence requirements determining eligibility [inter alia] to obtain a license
to practice a profession, to hunt or fish, and so forth." 394 U. S.,
at 638 n. 21.
1 Dept. of Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW) Report on
Medical Resources Available to Meet the Needs of Public Assistance
Recipients, House Committee on Ways and Means, 86th Cong., 2d
Sess., 74 (Comm. Print 1961). Similarly, President Nixon has observed: "'It is b2alth which is real, wealth,' said Ghandi, 'and
not pieces of gold and silver."' Health, Message from the President,
92d Cong., 1st Sess., H. R. Doe. No. 92-49, p. 18 (1971). See also
materials cited at n. 4, supra.

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

415 U. S.

medical care necessary to relieve him from the wheezing
5
and gasping for breath that attend his -illness."
Nor does the fact that the durational residence requirement is inapplicable to the provision of emergency medical care save the challenged provision from constitutional
doubt. As the Arizona Supreme Court observed, appellant "Evaro was an indigent person who required continued medical care for the preservation of his health
and well being. .. ," even if he did not require immediate
emergency care." The State could not deny Evaro care
The lower courts
'5 Reference to the tuition cases is instructive.
have .contrasted in-state tuition with "necessities of life" in a way
that would clearly include medical care in the latter category. The
District Court. in Starns v. Malkerson, 326 F. Supp. 234, 238 (Minn.
1970), aff'd, 401 U. S.985 (1971), quoted with approval from Kirk v.
Board of Regents, 273 Cal. App. 2d 430, 440, 78 Cal. Rptr. 260,
266-267 (1969), appeal dismissed, 396 U. S. 554 (1970) (emphasis
added):
"'While we fully recognize the value of higher education, we cannot
equate its attainment with food, clothing and shelter. Shapiro
involved the immediate 'and pressing need for preservation of life
and health of persons unable to live without public assistance, and
their dependent-children. Thus, the residence requirement in Shapiro
could cause great suffering and even loss of life. The durational
residence requirement for attendance at publicly financed institutions of higher learning [does] not involve similar risks. Nor was
petitioner... precluded from the benefit of obtaining higher education. Charging higher tuition fees to non-resident students cannot be
equated with granting of basic subsistence to one class of needy
residents while denying it to an equally needy class of residents."'
See also Note, The Constitutionality of Nonresident Tuition, 55
Minn.L.Rev. 1139, 1149-1158 (1971). Moreover, in Vlandis, supra,
the Court observed that "special problems [are] involved in deter
mining the bona fide residence of college students who come from out
of 4tate t6 attend [a] public university . . .

"

since those students are

characteristically transient, 412 U. S., at 452. There is no buch
ambiguity about whether appellant Evaro is a bona fide resident of
Maricopa County.
"' 108 Ariz. 373, 374, 498 P. 2d 461, 462 (emphasis added).

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

'261

Opinion of the Court

just because, although gasping for breath, he was not
in immediate danger of stopping breathing altogether.
To allow a serious illness to go untreated until it requires
emergency hospitalization is to subject the sufferer to
the danger of a substantial and irrevocable deterioriation
in his health. Cancer, heart disease, or respiratory illness, if untreated for, a year, may become all but irreversible paths to pain, disability, and even loss of life.
The denial of medical care is all the more cruel in this
context, falling as it does on indigents who are often
without the means to obtain alternative treatment. 7
Finally, appellees seek to distinguish Shapiro as involving a partially federally funded program. Maricopa
County has received federal funding for its public hos-.
pital" but, more importantly, this Court has held that
whether or not a welfare program is federally funded is
irrelevant to the applicability of the Shapiro analysis.
Pease v. Hansen, 404 U. S. 70 (1971); Graham v. Richardson, 403 U. S. 365 (1971).
Not unlike the admonition of the Bible that, "Ye shall
have one manner of law, as well for the stranger, as for one
of your own country," Leviticus 24:22 (King James
Version), the right of interstate travel must be seen as
insuring new residents the same right to vital government
benefits and privileges in the States to which they migrate
as are enjoyed by other residents. The State of Arizona's
durational residence requirement for free medical care
penalizes indigents for exercising their right to migrate
See Valcenciano v. Bateman, 323 F. Supp. 600, 603 (Ariz. 1971).
See generally HEW Report on Medical Resources, supra, n. 14, at
73-74; Dept. of HEW, Human Investment Programs: Delivery of
Health Services for the Poor (1967).
18 See HEW, Hill-Burton Project Register, July 1, 1947-June 30,
1967. HEW Publication No. (HSM) 72-4011, p. 37. Maricopa
County has received over $2 million in Hill-Burton (42 U. S. C. § 291
et seq.) funds since 1947.
17

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

415 U. S.

to and settle in that State. 19 Accordingly, the classification created by the residence requirement, "unless shown
to be necessary to promote a compelling governmental
interest, is unconstitutional." Shapiro, 394 U. S., at 634.

(Emphasis in original.)
VI
We turn now to the question of whether the State
has shown that its durational residence requirement is
"legitimately defensible," 20 in that it furthers a compelling state interest.21 A number of purposes are
asserted to be served by the requirement and we must
19 Medicaid, the primary federal program for providing medical
care to indigents at public expense, does not permit participating
States to apply a durational residence requirement as a condition
to eligibility, 42 U. S. C. § 1396a (b) (3), and "this conclusion of a
coequal branch' of Government is not without significance."
Frontiero v. Richardson, 411 U. S. 677, 687-688 (1973). The State
of Arizona does not participate in the Medicaid program.
20 Cf. Ely, Legislative and Administrative Motivation in Constitutional Law, 79 Yale L. J. 1205, 1223-1224 (1970); Note, Developments in the Law-Equal Protection, 82 Harv. L. Rev. 1065, 10761077 .(1969).
21 The Arizona Supreme Court observed that because this case
involves a governmental benefit akin to welfare, the "reasonable
basis" test of Dandridge v. Williams, 397 U. S. 471 (1970), should
apply. In upholding a state regulation placing an absolute limit on
the amount of welfare assistance to be paid a dependent family regardless of size or actual need, the Court in Dandridge found it
"enough that the State's action be rationally based and free from
invidious discrimination." Id., at 487. The Court later distinguished Dandridge in Graham v. Richardson, 403 U. S. 365, 376
(1971), where MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN, writing for the Court, observed that "[a]ppellants' attemtpted reliance on Dandridge ... is also
misplaced, since the classification involved in that case [did not
impinge] upon a fundamental constitutional right .... ." Strict scrutiny is required here because the challenged classification impinges
on the right of interstate travel. Compare Dandridge, supra, at 484
n. 16, with Shapiro v. Thompson, supra.

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
,250

263

Opinion of the Court

determine whether these satisfy the appellees' heavy
burden of justification, and insure that, the State, in
pursuing its asserted objectives, has chosen means that
do not unnecessarily burden constitutionally protected
interests. NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 438 (1963).
A
The Arizona Supreme Court observed:
"Absent a residence requirement, any indigent sick
person . . . could seek admission to [Maricopa
County's] hospital, the facilities being the newest
and most modern in the state, and the resultant
volume would cause long waiting periods or severe
hardship on [the] county if it tried to tax its
property owners to support [these] indigent
sick .... " 108 Ariz. 373, 376, 498 P. 2d 461, 464.
The County thus attempts to sustain the -requirement as a necessary means to insure the fiscal integrity
of its free medical care program by discouraging an
influx of indigents, particularly those entering the
County for the sole purpose of obtaining the benefits of
its hospital facilities.

First, a State may not protect the public fisc by drawing
an invidious distinction between classes of its citizens,
Shapiro, supra, at 633, so appellees must do more
than show that denying free medical care to new residents saves money. The conservation of the taxpayers'
purse is simply not a sufficient state interest to sustain
a durational residence requirement which, in effect,
severely penalizes exercise of the right to freely migrate
and settle in anothier State. See Rivera v. Dunn, 329 F.
Supp. 554 (Conn. 1971), aff'd, 404 U. S. 1054 (1972).
Second. to the extent the purpose of the requireinent is to inhibit the immigration of indigents gen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

415 U. S.

erally, that goal is constitutionally impermissible.22 And,
to the extent the purpose is to deter only those indigents
who take up residence in the County solely to utilize its
new and modern public medical facilities, the requirement at issue is clearly overinclusive. The challenged
durational residence requirement treats every indigent,
in his first year of residence, as if he came to the jurisdiction solely to obtain free medical care. Such a classification is no more defensible than the waiting period
in Shapiro, supra, of which the Court said:
"[T]he class of barred newcomers is all-inclusive,
lumping the great majority who come to the State
for other purposes with those who come for the sole
purpose of collecting higher benefits." 394 U. S., at
631.
Moreover, "a State may no more try to fence out
those indigents who seek [better public medical facilities] than it may try to fence out indigents generally."
Ibid. An indigent who considers .the quality of
public hospital ,facilities in entering the State is no less
deserving than one who moves into the State in order to
take idvantage of its better educational facilities. Id.,
at 631-632.
It is also useful to look at the other side of the
coin-at who will bear the cost of indigents' illnesses if
the County does not provide needed treatment. For
those newly arrived residents who do receive at least
hospital care, the cost is often borne by private nonprofit
hospitals, like appellant Memorial-many of which are
already in precarious financial straits. 3 When absorbed
22

Shapiro v. Thompson, 394 U. S., at 629.
See Cantor, The Law and Poor People's Access to Health Care,
35 Law & Contemp. Prob. 901, 909-914 (1970); cf. Catholic Medical
Center v. Rockefeller, 305 F. Supp. 1256 and 1268 (EDNY 1969),
vacated and remanded, 397 U. S. 820, aff'd on remand, 430 F. 2d
1297, appeal dismissed, 400 U. S. 931 (1970).
23

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

265

Opinion of the Court

by private hospitals, the costs of caring for indigents
must be passed on to paying patients and "at a rather
inconvenient time"-adding to the already astror.omical costs of hospitalization which bear so heavily on the
resources of most Americans. 4 The financial pressures
under which private nonprofit hospitals operate have
already led many of them to turn away patients who
cannot pay or to severely limit the number of indigents
they will admit.2
And, for those indigents who receive
no care, the cost is, of course, measured by their own
suffering.
In addition, the County's claimed fiscal savings may
well be illusory. The lack of timely medical care could
cause a patient's condition to deteriorate to a point where
more expensive emergency hospitalization (for which no
durational residence requirement applies) is needed.
And, the disability that may result from letting an untreated condition deteriorate may well result in the patient and his family becoming a burden on the State's welfare* rolls for the duration of his emergency care, or
permanently, if his capacity to work is impaired."
24 HEW Report
on Medical Resources, supra, n. 14, at 74.
See generally Health, Message from the President, supra, n. 14;
E. Kennedy, In Critical Condition: The Crises in America's
Health Care (1973); Hearings on The Health Care Crisis in
America before the Subcommittee on Health of the Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, 92d Cong., 1st Sess. (1971).
2
-Cantor,
supra, n. 23; See E. Kennedy, supra, n. 24, at 78-94;
Note, Working Rules .for Assuring Nondiscrimination in Hospital
Administration, 74 Yale L. J. 151, 156 n. 32 (1964); cf., e. g., Stanturf
v. Sipes, 447 S.IV. 2d 558 (Mo. 1969) (hospital refused treatment
to frostbite victim who was unable to pay 825 deposit). See generally HEW Report on Medical Resources, supra, n. 14, at 74; Hearings on The Health Care Crisis in America, supra, n. 24.
26 "[L]ack of timely hospitalization and medical care for those
unable to pay has been considered an'-economic liability to the
patient, the hospital, and to the community in which these citizens

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

415 U. S.

The appellees also argue that eliminating the durational residence requirement would dilute the quality of
services provided to longtime residents by fostering an
influx of newcomers and thus requiring the County's
limited public health resources to serve an expanded pool
of recipients. Appellees assert that the County should be
able to protect its longtime residents because of their
contributions to the community, particularly through the
past payment of taxes. We rejected this "contributory"
rationale both in Shapiro and in Vlandis v. Kline, 412
U. S. 441,450 n. 6 (1973), by observing:
"[Such] reasoning would logically permit the State to
bar new residents from schools, parks, and libraries or
deprive them of police and fire protection. Indeed it would permit the State to apportion all
benefits and services accnrding to the past tax contributions of its citizens. The Equal Protection
Clause prohibits such an apportionment of state
services." Shapiro, 394 U. S., at 632-633 (footnote
omitted).
Appellees express a concern that the threat of an
influx of indigents would discourage "thq development
of modern and effective [public medical] facilities." It
is suggested that whether or not the durational residence
requirement actually deters migration, the voters think
that it protects them from low income families' being attracted by the county hospital; hence, the requirement
is necessary for public support of that medical facility.
A State may not employ an invidious discrimination to
sustain the political viability of its programs. As we
might otherwise be self:supporting . .

. ."

HEW Report on Medical

Resources, supra, n. 14, at 73; Comment, Indigents, Hospital Admissions and Equal Protection, 5 U. Mich. J. L. Reform 502, 515-516
(1972); cf. Battistella & Southby, Crisis in American Medicine, The
Lancet 581, 582 (Mar. '16, 1968).

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

267

Opinion of the Court

observed in Shapiro, supra, at 641, "[p]erhaps Congress
could induce wider state participation in school construction if it authorized the use of joint funds for the building
of segregated schools," but that purpose would not sustaiiP such a scheme. See also Cole v. Housing Authority
of the City of Newport, 435 F. 2d 807, 812-813 (CA1
1970).
B
The appellees also argue that the challenged statute
serves some administrative objectives. They claim that
the one-year waiting period is a convenient rule of thumb
to- determine bona fide residence. Besides not being
factually defensible, this test is certainly overbroad to
accomplish its avowed purpose. A mere residence requirement would accomplish the objective of limiting
the use of public medical facilities to bona fide residents
of the County without sweeping within its prohibitions
those bona fide residents who had moved into the State
within the qualifying period. Less drastic means, which
do not impinge on the right of interstate travel, are available and employed 27 to ascertain an individual's- true
intentions, without exacting a protracted waiting period
which may have dire economic and healh consequences
for certain citizens. See Shelton v. Tucker, 364 U. S.
479, 488 (1960).
The Arizona State welfare agency
ap-lies criteria other than the duration of residehcy to
28
determine whether an applicant is a bona fide resident.
The Arizona Medical Assistance to the Aged law
provides public, medical care for certain senior citizens,
conditioned only on residence. 2- Pinal County, Arizona,
has operated its public hospital without benefit of the
See Green v. Dept. of Public Welfare of Delaware, 270 F. Supp.
173,2 177-178 (Del. 1967).
1Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 46-292 (1) (Supp. 1973-1974).
§ 46-261.02 (3) (Supp. 1973-1974).
27

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

415 U. S.

durational residence requirement since the application of
the challenged statute in that County was enjoined by a
federal court in Valenciano v. Bateman., 323 F. Supp. 600
(Ariz. 1971).30
The appellees allege that the waiting period is a useful
tool for preventing fraud. Certainly, a State has a valid
interest in preventing fraud by any applicant for medical
care, whether a newcomer or oldtime resident, Shapiro,
394 U. S., at 637, but the challenged provision is illsuited to that purpose. An indigent applicant, intent on
committing fraud, could as easily swear to having been a
resident of the county for the preceding year as to being
one currently. And, there is no need for the State
to rely on the durational requirement as a safeguard
against fraud when other mechanisms to serve that purpose are available which would have a less drastic impact
on constitutionally protected interests. NAACP v.
Button, .371 U. S., at 438.
For example, state
law makes it a crime to file an "untrue statement . ..
for the purpose of obtaining hospitalization, medical care
or outpatient relief" at county expense. Ariz. Rev. Stat.
Ann. § 11-297C (Supp. 1973-1974). See Dunn, 405 U. S.,
at 353-354; U. S. Dept. of Agriculture v. Moreno, 413
U. S.528, 534 (1973).
Finally, appellees assert that the waiting period is
necessary for budget predictability, but what was said in
Shapiro is equally applicable to the case before us:
"The records . . . are utterly devoid of evidence that
30 In addition, Pima County, Arizona, did not apply the durational residence requirement between August 1969, when the require-ment was found unconstitutional by the Arizona Court of Appeals,
Board of Supervisors, Pima County v. Robinson, 10 Ariz. App. 238,
457 P. 2d 951, and September 1970, when that judgment was
vacated as moot by the Arizona Supreme Court, 105 Ariz. 280,
463 P. 2d 536.

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

269

Opinion of the Court

[the County] uses the one-year requirement as a
means to predict the number of people who will
require assistance in the budget year. [The appellees
do not take] a census of new residents .... Nor
are new residents required to give advance notice
of their need for . . . assistance. Thus, the . . .
authorities cannot know how many nIew residents
come into the jurisdiction in any year, much less how
many of them will require public assistance." .394
U. S., at 634-635 (footnote omitted).
Whatever the difficulties in projecting how many newcomers to a jurisdiction will require welfare assistance,
it could only be an even more difficult and speculative
task to estimate how many of those indigent newcomers
will require medical care during their first year in the
jurisdiction. The irrelevance of the one-year residence
requirement to budgetary planning is further underscored by the fact that emergency medical care for all
newcomers and more complete medical care for the aged
are currently being provided at public expense regardless
of whether the patient has been a resident of the County
for the preceding year. See Shapiro, supra, at 635.
VII
The Arizona durational residence requirement for
eligibility for nonemergency free medical care creatEs an
"invidious classification" that impinges on the rigl t of
interstate travel by denying newcomers "basic necessities
of life." Such a classification can only be sustained on a
showing of a compelling state interest. Appellees have
not met their heavy burden of justification, or demonstrated that the State, in pursuing legitimate objectives,
has chosen means which do not unnecessarily impinge on
constitutionally protected interests. Accordingly, the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona is reversed and

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of DouGLAs, J.

415 U. S.

the case remanded for further action not inconsistent
with this opinion.
So ordered.
THE CHIEF JUSTIcE and MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN

concur in the result.
MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAS.
The legal and economic aspects of medical care ' are
enormous; and I doubt if decisions under the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment are
equal to the task of dealing with these matters. So far
as interstate travel per se is considered, I share the
doubts of my Brother REHNQUIST. The present case,
however, turns for me on a different axis. The problem has many aspects. The therapy of Arizona's atmosphere brings many there who suffer from asthma, bronchitis, arthritis, and tuberculosis. Many coming are
indigent or become indigent after arrival. Arizona does
not deny medical help to "emergency" cases "when
immediate hospitalization or medical care is necessary for
the preservation of life or limb," Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann.
§ 11-297A (Supp. 1973-1974). For others, it requires a
12-month durational residence.
The Act is not aimed at interstate travelers; it applies
even to a long-term resident who moves from one county
to another. As stated by the Supreme Court of Arizona
in the present case: "The requirement applies to all
citizens within the state including long term residents
of one county who move to another county. Thus, the
classification does not single out non-residents nor
attempt to penalize interstate travel. The requirement
is uniformly applied." 108 Ariz. 373, 375, 498 P. 2d 461,
463.
'See appendix to this opinion, post, p. 274.

MEM'C[RIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY

250

Opinion of

271

DOUGLAS, J.

What Arizona has done, therefore, is to fence the poor
out of the metropolitan counties, such as Maricopa
County (Phoenix) and Pima County (Tucson) by use of
a durational residence requirement. We are told that
eight Arizona counties have no county hospitals and that
most indigent care in those areas exists only on a contract
basis. In San Antono Independent School Dist. v. Rodriguez, 411 U. S. 1, we had a case where Texas created a
scheme by which school districts with a low property tax
base, from which they could raise only meager funds.
offered a lower quality of education to their students than
the wealthier districts. That system was upheld against
the charge that the state system violated the Equal Protection Clause. It was a closely divided Court and I was
in dissent. I suppose that if a State can fence in the
poor in educational programs, it can do so in medical
programs. But to allow Arizona freedom to carry forward its medical program we must go one step beyond
the San Antonio case. In the latter there was no legal
barrier to movement into a better district. Here a oneyear barrier to medical care, save for "emergency" care,
is erected around the areas that have medical facilities
for the poor.
Congress has struggled. with the problem. In the
Kerr-Mills Act of 1960, 74 Stat. 987, 42 U. S. C. § 302
(b) (2), it added provisions to the Social Security Act
requiring the Secretary "of Health, Education, and Welfare to disapprove any state plan for medical assistance to
the aged (Medicaid) that excludes "any individual who
resides in the state," thus eliminating durational residence requirements.
Maricopa County has received over $2 million
in federal funds for hospital construction under the HillBurton Act, 42 U. S. C. § 291 et seq. Section 291c (e)
authorizes the issuance of regulations governing the op-

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of DOUGLAS, J.

415 U. S.

eration of Hill-Burton facilities. The regulations contain conditions that the facility to be constructed or
modernized with the funds "will be made available to
all persons residing in the territorial area of the applicant" and that the applicant will render "a reasonable
'
volume of services to persons unable to pay therefor. 2
The conditions, of free services for indigents, however,
may be waived if "not feasible from a financial
viewpoint."
Prior to the application the state agency must obtain
from the applicant an assurance "that there will be made
available in the facility or portion thereof to be constructed or modernized a reasonable volume of services
to persons unable to pay therefor. The requirement of
an assurance from an applicant shall be waived if the
applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the State
agency, subject to subsequent approval by the Secretary,
that such a requirement is not feasible from a financial
viewpoint." 42 CFR § 53.111 (c)(1).1
So far as I can ascertain, the durational residence requirement imposed by Maricopa County has not been
federally approved as a condition to the receipt of HillBurton funds.
Maricopa County does argue that it is not financially
feasible to provide free nonemergency medical care to new
residents. Even so, the federal regulatory framework
does not leave the County uncontrolled'in determining
.which indigents 'will receive the benefit of the resources
which are available. It is clear, for example, that the
County could not limit such service to whites out of
2 Title 42 CFR § 53.111 (b) (8) defines that term to mean "a level
of uncompensated services which meets a need for such services in
the area served by an applicant and which is within the financial
ability of such applicant to provide."
3The waiver of such a requirement requires notice and opportunity
for public hearing. 42 CFR § 53.111 (c) (2).

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

273

Opinion of DOUGLAS, J.

a -professed inability to service indigents of all races
because 42 CFR § 53.112 (c) prohibits such discrimination in the operation of Hill-Burton facilities. It does
not allow racial discrimination even against transients.
Moreover, Hill-Burton Act donees are guided by 42
CFR § 53.111 (g), which sets out in some detail the criteria which must be used in identifying persons unable to
pay for such services. The criteria include the patient's
health and medical insurance coverage, personal and family income, - financial obligations and resources, and
"similar factors." Maricopa County, pursuant to the
state law .here challenged, employs length of county residence as an additional criterion in identifying indigent
recipients of uncompensated nonemergency medical care.
The federal regulations, however, do not seem to recognize that as an acceptable criterion.
And, as we held in Thorpe v. Housing Authority, 393
U. S. 268; Mourning v. Family Publications Service,
411 U. S. 356, these federal conditions attached to federal grants are valid when "reasonably related to the
purposes of the enabling legislation." 393 U. S., at
280-281.
It is difficult to impute to Congress approval of the
durational residence requirement, for the implications of
such a decision would involve weighty equal protection
considerations by which the Federal Government, Bolling
v. Sharpe, 347 U. S. 497, as well as the States, are bound.
The political processes - rather than equal protection
litigation are the ultimate solution of the present problem. But in the setting of this case the invidious discrimination against the poor, Harper v. Virginia Board
4 For the impact of "free" i~ndigent care on private hospitals and
their paying patients see Dept. of Health, Education, and Welfare
(HEW) Report on Medical Resources Available to Meet the Needs
of Public Assistance Recipients, House Committee on Ways and
Means, 86th Cong., 2d Sess. (Comm. Print 1961).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Appendix to opinion of DOUGLAS, J.

415 U. S.

of Elections, 383 U. S. 663, not the right to travel interstate, is in my view the critical issue.
APPENDIX TO OPINION OF DOUGLAS, J.
GOURMAND AND FooD--A FABELB

The people of Gourmand loved good food. They ate
in good restaurants,donated money for cooking research,
and instructed their government to safeguard all matters
having to do., with food. Long ago, the food industry
had been in total chaos. There were many restaurants,
some very small. Anyone could call himself a chef or
open a restaurant. In choosing a restaurant,one could
never be sure that the meal would be good. A commission of distinguished chefs studied the situation and
recommended that no one be allowed to touch food
except for qualified chefs. "Food is too important to be
left to amateurs," they said. Qualified chefs were
licensed by the state with severe penalties for anyone
else who engaged in cooking. Certain exceptions were
made for food preparation in the home, but a person
could serve only his own family. Furthermore, to
become a qualified chef, a man had to complete at least
twenty-one years of trahning (including four years of
college, four years of cooking school, and one year of
apprenticeship). All cooking schools had to be first
class.
These reforms did succeed in raising the quality of
cooking. But a restaurant meal became substantially
more expensive. A second commission observed that
not everyone could afford to eat out. "No one," they
said, "should be denied a good meal because of his
5Foreword to an article on Medicat Care and its Delivery: An
Economic Appraisal by Judith R. Lave and Lester B. Lave in 35
Law & Contemp. Prob. 252 (1970).

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY

250k

Appendix to opinion of DouGLAS,

275

J.

income." Furthermore, they argued that chefs should
work toward the goal of giving everyone "complete
physical and psychological satisfaction." For those
people who could not afford to eat out, the government
declared that they should be allowed to do so as often
as they liked and the government would pay. For
others, it was recommended that they organize themselves in groups and pay part of their income into a pool
that would undertake to pay the costs incurred by members in dining out. To insure the greatest satisfaction,
the groups were set up so that a member could eat out
anywhere and as often as he liked, could have as elaborate
a meal as he desired, and would have to pay nothing or
only a small percentage of the cost. 'The cost of joining
such prepaid dining clubs rose sharply.
Long ago, most restaurants would have one chef to
prepare the food. A few restaurants were more elaborate, with chefs specializing in roasting, fish, salads,
sauces, and many other things. People rarely went to
theseelaboraterestaurantssince they were so expensive.
With the establishment of prepaid dining clubs, everyone
wanted to eat at these fancy restaurants. At the same
time, young chefs in school disdained going to cook in a
small restaurant where they would have to cook everything. The pay was higher and it was much more prestigious to specialize and cook at a really fancy restaurant.
Soon there were not enough chefs to keep the small
restaurants open.
With prepaid clubs and free meals for the poor, many
people started eating their three-course meals at the
elaborate restaurants. Then they began to increase
the number of courses, directing the chef to "serve the
best with no thought for the bill." (Recently a 317course meal was served.)
The costs of eating out rose faster and faster. A new

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Appendix to opinion of DouGrs, J.

415 U. S.

government commission reported as follows: (1) Noting
that licensed chefs were being used to peel potatoes and
wash lettuce, the commission recommended that these
tasks be handed over to licensed dishwashers (whose
three years of dishwashing training included cooking
courses) or to some new category of personnel. (2) Concluding that many licensed chefs were overworked, the
commission recommended that cooking schools be expanded, that the length of training be shortened, and
that applicants with lesser qualifications be admitted.
(3) The commission also observed that chefs were
unhappy because people seemed to be -more concerned
about the decor and service than about the food. (In
a recent taste test, not only could one patron not tell
the difference between a 1980 and a 1970 vintage but he
also could not distinguish between white and red wines.
He explained that he' always ordered the 1930 vintage
because he knew that only a really good restaurantwould
stock such an expensive wine.)
The commission agreed that weighty problems faced
the nation. They recommended that a national prepayment group be established which everyone must join.
They recommended that chefs continue to be paid on
the basis of the number of dishes they prepared. They
recommended that every Gourmandese be given the
right to eat anywhere he chose and as elaborately as he
chose and pay nothing.
These recommendations were adopted. Large numbers of people spent all of their time ordering incredibly
elaborate meals. Kitchens became marvels- of new,
expensive equipment- All those who were not consuming restaurant food were in the kitchen preparing it.
Since no one in Gourmand did anything except prepare
or eat meals, the country collapsed.

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

R.EHNQUIST,

277

J., dissenting

MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, dissenting.

I
The State of Arizona provides- free medical care for
indigents. Confronted, in common with its 49 sister

States, with the assault of spiraling health and welfare
costs upon limited state resources, it has felt bound to

require that recipients meet three standards of eligibility.'
First, they must be indigent, unemployable, or unable
to provide their own care. Second, they raust be residents of the county in which they seek aid. Third,
they must have maintained their residence for a period
of one year. These standards, however, apply only to
persons seeking nonemergency aid. An exception is

specifically provided for "emergency cases when immediate hospitalization or medical care is necessary for the
preservation of life or limb . .. ."
Appellant Evaro moved from New Mexico to Arizona
in June 1971, suffering from a "chronic asthmatic and
bronchial illness." In July 1971 he experienced a
respiratory attack, and obtained treatment at the facili-

ties of appellant Memorial Hospital, a privately operated
IAriz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 11-297A (Supp. 1973-1974) reads as
follows:
"Except in emergency cases when immediate hospitalization or
medical care is necessary for the preservation of life or limb no
person shall be provided hospitalization, medical care or outpatient
relief under the provisions of this article without first filing with a
member of the board of supervisors of the county in which he resides
a statement in writing, subscribed and sworn to under oath, that he
is an indigent as shall be defined by rules and regulations of the
state department of economic security, an unemployable totally
dependent upon the state or county government for financial support, or an employable of sworn low income without sufficient funds
to provide himself necessary hospitalization and medical care, and
that he has been a resident of the county for the preceding twelve
months."

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
RsHNQuisT,

institution.

J., dissenting

415 U. S.

The hospital sought to recover its expenses

from appellee Maricopa County under the provisions of
Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 11-297A (Supp. 1973-1974),
asserting that Evaro was entitled to receive county care.
Since he did not satisfy the eligibility requirements discussed above,-' appellee declined to assume responsibility
for his care, and this suit was then instituted in the State
Superior Court.
Appellants did not, and could not, claim that there is
a constitutional right to nonemergency medical care at
state or county expense or a constitutional right to reimbursement for care extended by a private hospital.'
They asserted, however, that the state legislature, having
decided to give free care to certain classes of persons. must
give that care to Evaro as well. The Court upholds that
claim, holding that the Arizona eligibility requirements
burdened Evaro's "right to travel."
Unlike many traditional government services, such as
police or fire protection, the provision of health care has
commonly been undertaken by private facilities and personnel. But as strains on private services become
greater, And the costs of obtaining care increase, federal,
state, and local governments have been pressed to assume
a larger role. Reasonably enough, it seems to me, those
governments which now find themselves in the hospital
business seek to operate that business primarily for those
2The parties stipulated that Mr. Evaro was "an indigent who
recently changed his residence from New Mexico to Arizona and
who has resided in the state of Arizona for less than twelve months."
App. 10. Therefore Mr. Evaro failed to meet only the third
requirement discussed in the text.
3This Court has noted that citizens have no constitutional right
to welfare benefits. See, e. g., Dandridge v. Williams, 397 U. S. 471
(1970); San Antonio Independent School Dist. v. Rodriguez, 411
U. S. 1, 33 (1973).

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

REHNQUIST,

279

J., dissenting

persons dependent on the financing locality both by
association and by need.
Appellants in this case nevertheless argue that the
State's efforts, admirable though they may be, are
simply not impressive enough. But others excluded
by eligibility requirements certainly could make similar protests. Maricopa County residents of many
years, paying taxes to both construct and support public
hospital facilities, may be ineligible for care because their
incomes are slightly above the marginal level for inclusion. These people have been excluded by the State,
not because their claim on limited public resources is
without merit, but because it has been deemed less meritorious than the claims of those in even greater need.
Given a finite amount of resources, Arizona after today's
decision may well conclude that its indigency threshold
should be elevated since its counties must provide for
out-of-state migrants as well as for residents of longer
standing. These more stringent need requirements
would then deny care to additional persons who until now
would have qualified for aid.
Those presently excluded because marginally above
the State's indigency standards, those who may be
excluded in the future because of more stringent indigency requirements necessitated by today's decision, and
appellant Evaro, all have a plausible claim to government-supported medical care. The choice between them
necessitated by a finite amount of resources is a classic
example of the determination of priorities to be accorded
conflicting claims, and would in the recent past have been
thought to be a matter particularly within the competence of the state legislature tu decide. As this Court
stated in Dandridge v. Williams, 397 U. S. 471, 487
(1970), "the Constitution does not empower this Court to
second-guess state officials charged with the difficult

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

415 U. S.

responsibility of allocating limited public welfare funds
among the myriad of potential recipients."
The Court holds, however, that the State was barred
from making the choice it made because of the burden its choice placed upon Evaro's "right to travel."
Although the Court's definition of this "right" is hardly
precise, the Court does state: "[T]he right of interstate
travel must be seen as insuring new residents the same
right to vital 'government benefits and privileges in the
States to which they migrate as are enjoyed -by other
residents." This rationale'merits further attention.
HI
The right to travel throughout the Nation has been
recognized for over a century in the decisions of this
Court.'
See Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35 (1868).
But the concept of that right has not been static. To
see how distant a cousin the right to travel enunciated
in this case is to the right declared by the Court in
Crandall, reference need only be made to the language of
Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the Court:
"But if the government has these rights on her own
account, the citizen also has correlative rights. He
has the right to come to the seat of government to
assert any claim he may have upon that government, or to transact any business he may have with
it. To seek its protection, to share its offices, to
engage in administering its functions. He has a
right to free access to its sea-ports, through which
all the operations of foreign trade and commerce are
4

Although the right to travel has been recognized by this Court
for over a century, the origin of the right still remains somewhat
obscure. The majority opinion in this case makes no effort to
identify the source, simply relying on recent cases which state such
a right exists.

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

281

RIHNQssT, J., dissenting

conducted, to the sub-treasuries, the land offices, the
revenue offices, and ihe courts of justice iii the

several States, and this right is in its nature independent of the will of any State over whose soil he
must pass in the exercise of it."- Id., at 44.
The Court in Crandall established no right to free
benefits from every State through which the traveler
might pass, but more modestly held that the State could
not use its taxing power to impede travel across its
borders2
Later cases also defined this right to travel quite conservatively. For example, in Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S.
270 (1900), the Court upheld a Georgia statute taxing
"emigrant agents'--persons hiring labor for work outside the State--although agents hiring for local work
went untaxed. The Court recognized that a right to
travel existed, stating:
"Undoubtedly the right of locomotion, the right to
remove from one place to another according to inclination, is an attribute of personal liberty, and the
right, ordinarily, of free transit from or through the
territory of any State is a right secured by the Fourteenth Amendment and by other provisions of the
Constitution." Id., at 274.
The Court went on, however, to decide that the statute,
despite the added cost it assessed against exported
labor, affected freedom of egress "only incidentally and
remotely." Ibid."
5 The tax levied by the State of- Nevada was upon every person
leaving the State. As this Court has since noted, the tax was a
direct tax on travel ahd was not intended to be a charge for the use
of state facilities. See Evansville Airport v. Delta Airlines, 405 U. S.
707 (1972).
6The Court also rejected an equal protection argument, concluding: "We are unable to say that such a discrimination, if it existed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
• REHNQUIST, J., dissenting

415 U. S.

The leading earlier case, Edwards v. California, 314
U. S. 160 (1941), provides equally little support for the
Court's expansive holding here. In Edwards the Court
invalidated a California statute which subjected to criminal penalties any person "that brings or assists in bringing into the State any indigent person who is not a
resident of the State, knowing him to be an indigent
person." Id., at 171. Five members of the Court found
the statute unconstitutional under the Commerce Clause,
finding in the Clause a "prohibition against attempts on
the part of any single State to isolate itself from difficulties common to all of them by restraining the transportation of persons and property across its borders."
Id., at 173. Four concurring Justices found a better
justification for the result in the Fourteenth Amendment's
protection of the "privileges of national citizenship."
Regardless of the right's precise source and definition,
it is clear that the statute invalidated in Edwards was
specifically designed to, and would, deter indigent persons from entering the State of California. The imposition of criminal penalties on all persons assisting the
entry of an indigent served to block ingress as surely as
if the State had posted guards at the border to turn
indigents away. It made no difference to the operation
of the statute that the indigent, once inside the State,
would be supported by federal payments.' Furthermore,
did not rest on reasonable grounds, and was not within the discretion
of the state legislature." 179 U. S., at 276.
7 See -the
concurring opinions of MR. JUSTIcE DouGLAs (with whom
Mr. Justice Black and Mr. Justice Murphy joined), 314 U. S., at
177, and Mr. Justice Jackson, id., at 181.
The Court in Edwards observed: "After arriving in California
[the indigent] was aided by the Farm Security Administration,
which... is wholly financed by the Federal government." 314 U. S.,
at 175. The Court did not express a view at that time as to-whether
a different result would have been reached if the State bore the financial burden. But cf. Shapiro v. Thompson, 394 U. S. 618 (1969).

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY

250

REHNQuIsT,

283

J., dissenting

the statute did not require that the indigent intend to
take up continuous residence within the State. The
statute was not therefore an incidental or remote barrier
to migration, but was in fact an effective and purposeful
attempt to insulate the State from indigents.
The statute in the present case raises no comparable
barrier. Admittedly, some indigent persons desiring to
reside in Arizona may choose to weigh the possible detriment of providing their own nonemergency health care
during the first year of their residence against the total
benefits to be gained from continuing location within
the State, but their mere entry into the State does not
invoke criminal penalties. To the contrary, indigents
are free to live within the State, to receive welfare benefits necessary for food and shelter,' and to receive free
emergency medical care if needed. Furthermore, once
the indigent has settled within a county for a year, he
becomes eligible for full medical care at county expense.
To say, therefore, that Arizona's treatment of indigents
compares with California's treatment during the 1930's
would border on the frivolous.
Since those older cases discussing the right to travel
are unhelpful to Evaro's cause here, reliance must be
placed elsewhere., A careful reading of the Court's
opinion discloses that the decision rests almost entirely
on two cases of recent vintage: Shapiro v. Thompson, 394
U. S. 618 (1969), and Dunn v. Blumstein, 405 U. S. 330
(1972).
In Shapiro the Court struck down statutes
requiring one year's residence prior to receiving welfare
benefits. In Dunn the Court struck down a statute
requiring a year's residence before receiving the right to
vote. In placing reliance on these two cases, the Court
8 See Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 46-233 (Supp, 1973-1974), which
provides that an eligible recipient of general assistance must have
"established residence at the time of application."

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

415 U. S.

must necessarily distinguish or discredit recent cases of
this Court upholding statutes requiring a year's residence
for lower in-state tuition. 10 The important question for
this purpose, according to the Court's analysis, is whether
a classification "'operates td penalize those persons . ..
who have exercised their constitutional right of interstate
(Emphasis in Court's opinion.)
migration.'"
Since the Court concedes that "some 'waiting-period[s] . . .may not be penalties,'" ante, at 258-259, one
would expect to learn from the opinion how to distinguish
a waiting period which is a penalty from one which is
not. Any expense imposed on citizens crossing state
lines but not imposed on those staying put could theoretically be deemed a penalty on travel; the toll exacted
from persons crossing from Delaware to New Jersey by
the Delaware Memorial Bridge is a "penalty" on interstate travel in the most literal sense of all. But such
charges," as well as other fees for use of transportation
facilities such as taxes on airport users,1 2 have been
upheld by this Court against attacks based upon the
right to travel. It seems to me that the line to be
derived from our prior cases is that some financial impositions on interstate travelers have such indirect or
inconsequential impact on travel that they simply do
not constitute the type of direct purposeful barriers
struck doivn in Edwards and Shapiro. Where the impact is that remote, a State can reasonably require that
the citizen bear some proportion of the State's cost in
its facilities. I would think that this standard is not
only supported by this Court's decisions, but would be
10 Se Starns v. Malkerson, 326 F. Supp. 234 (Minn. 1970), aff'd,

401 U. S. 985 (1971); Vlandis v. Kline, 412 U. S. 441 (1973).
"See, e. g., Interstate Busses Corp. v. Blodgett, 276 U. S. 245
(1928); Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S.610 (1915).
12 See Evansville Airport v. Delta Airlines, 405 U. S.707 (1972).

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

REHNQUST,

285

J., dissenting

eminently sensible and workable. But the Court not
only rejects this approach, it leaves us entirely without guidance as to the proper standard to be applied.
The Court instead resorts to ipse dixit, declaring rather
than demonstrating that the right to nonemergenc;
medical care is within the class of rights protected by
Shapiro and Dunn:
"Whatever the ultimate parameters of the Shapiro
penalty analysis, it is at least clear that medical
care is as much 'a basic necessity of life' to an indigent as welfare assistance. And, governmental
privileges or benefits necessary to basic sustenance
Jaave often been viewed as being of greater constitutional significance than less .essential forms of
governmental entitlements. See, e. g., Shapiro,
supra; Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S. 254, 264 .(1970);
Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp., 395 U. S. 337,
340-342 (1969)." Ante, at 259. (Emphasis added;
footnotes omitted.)
However clear this conclusion may be to the majority,
it is certainly not clear to me. The solicitude which
the Court has shown in cases involving the right to
vote," and the virtual denial of entry inherent in denial
of welfare benefits--"the very means by which to live,"
Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S. 254, 264 (1970)--ought not
be so casually extended to the alleged deprivation here.
Rather, the Court should examine, as it has done in
the past, whether the challenged requirement erects a
real. and purposeful barrier to movement, or the threat
of such a barrier, or whether the -effects on travel, viewed
realistically, are merely incidental and remote. As the
above discussion has shown, the barrier here is hardly
1

3See, e. g., Evans v. Cornman, 398 U. S. 419 (1970); Ciprianov.
City of Houma, 395 U. S. 701 (1969).-

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
REnQuIsT, J., dissenting

415 U. S.

a counterpart to the barriers condemned in earlier cases.
That being so, the Court should observe its traditional
respect for the State's allocation of its limited financial
resources rather than unjustifiably imposing its own
preferences.
III
The Court, in its examination of the proffered state
interests, categorically rejects the dontention that those
who have resided in the county for a fixed period of time
may have a greater stake in community facilities than
the newly arrived. But this rejection is accomplished
more by fiat than by reason. One of the principal factual
distinctions between Starns v. Malkerson, 326 F. Supp.
234 (Minn. 1970), aff'd, 401 U. S. 985 (1971), and
Vlandis v. Kline, 412 U. S. 441 (1973), both of which
upheld durational residence requirements for in-state
university tuition, 4 and Shapiro, which struck them
down for welfare recipients, is the nature of the aid which
the State or county provides. Welfare benefits, whether
in cash or in kind, are commonly funded from current
tax revenues, which may well be supported by the very
newest arrival as well as by the longtime resident. But
universities and hospitals, although demanding operating support from current revenues, require extensive
capital facilities which cannot possibly be funded out
of curroit tax revenues. Thus, entirely apart from the
majority's conception of whether nonemergency health
care is more or less irportant than continued education,
14 In Vland, .while striking -down a Connecticut statute that in
effect prevented a new state resident from obtaining lower tuition

rates for the full period of enrollment, we stated that the decisioii
should not "be construed to deny a State the right to impose on a

student, as one element in demonstrating bona fide residence, a
reasonable durational residency requirement, which can be met while
in student statug.'; 412 U. S., at 452. Starns was cited as support
for this position.

MEMORIAL HOSPITAL v. MARICOPA COUNTY
250

287

REHNQUisT, J., dissenting

the interest of longer established residents in capital
facilities and their greater financial contribution to the
construction of such facilities seems indisputable."
Other interests advanced by the State to support its
statutory eligibility criteria are also rejected virtually
out of hand by the Court. The protection. of the county
economies is dismissed with the statement that "[t]he
conservation of the taxpayers' purse is simply not a sufficient state interest . . . ." " The Court points out that
the cost of care, if not borne by the Government, may be
borne by private hospitals scb Q.; arrellant Memorial
Hospital. While this observation is doubtless true in
large part, and is bound to present a problem to any
private hospital, it does not seem to me that it thus
becomes a constitutional determinant. The Court also
observes that the State may in fact save money by providing nonemergency medical care rather than waiting
for deterioration of an illness. However valuable a
qualified cost analysis might be to legislators drafting
eligibility requirements, and however little this speculatioD may bear on Evaro's condition (which the record
does not indicate to have been a deteriorating illness),
this sort of judgment has traditionally been confided
to legislatures, rather than to courts charged with determining constitutional questions.
The Court likewise rejects all arguments based on
"This distinction may be particularly important in a State such
as Arizona ,where the Constitution provides for limitations on
state and county debt. See Ariz. Const., Art. 9, § 5 (State); Art. 9,
§ 8 (County). See generally Comment, Dulling the Edge of Husbandry: The Special Fund- Doctrine in Arizona, 1971 L. & Soc.
0. (Ariz. St. L. J.) 555.
10The appellees in this .case- filed an affidavit indicating that
acceptance of appellants' position would impose an added burden
on property taxpayers in Maricopa County of over $2.5 million
in tfie first year alone. App. 12-17.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
RHNQUisT,

J., dissenting

415 U. S.

administrative objectives. Refusing to accept the assertion that a one-year waiting period is a "convenient rule
of thumb to determine bona fide residence," the majority
simply suggests its own alternatives. Similar analysis is
applied in rejecting the appellees' argument based on the
potential for fraud. The Court's declaration that an
indigent applicant "intent on committing fraud, could as
easily swear to having been a resident of the county for
the preceding year as to being one currently" ignores the
obvious fact, that fabricating' presence in the State for
a year is surdly more difficult than fabricating only a
pifesent intention to remain.
The legal question in this case is simply whether the
State of Arizona has acted arbitrarily in determining that
access tol
,ocal hospital facilities for nonemergency medical care should be denied to persons until they have
established residence for one year. The impediment
which this quite rational determination has placed on
appellant Evaro's "right to travel" is so remote as to be
negligible: so far as the record indicates Evaro moved
from. New Mexico to -Arizona three years ago and has
remained ever since. The eligibility requirement has
not the slightest reseinblance to the actual barriers to
the right of free ingress and egress-rotected by the Constitution, and struck down in cases such as Crandall and
Edwards. And, unlike Shapiro, it does not involve an
urgent need for th necessities of life or a benefit funded
from current revenues to which the claimant may well
have contributed. It is a substantial broadening of, and
departure from, all of these holdings, all the -moreremarkable for the lack of explanation which aceonipanies the
result. Since I can subscribe neither to the method
nor the result, I dissent.

