38

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

337 U. S.

UNION NATIONAL BANK v. LAMB.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 500.

Argued March 31, 1949.-Decided May 16, 1949.

1. A judgment of the highest court of a State determining a claim
of right under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the Federal
Constitution is reviewable here not by appeal but by certiorari;
and the papers whereon an appeal has been improvidently taken
in such a case may be treated as a petition for a writ of certiorari.
28 U. S. C. §§ 1257 (3), 2103. Pp. 39-40.
.2. Where the last day of the period within which a review by this
Court on appeal or certiorari may be applied for falls on a Sunday
or legal holiday, an application made on the next day which is
not a Sunday or legal holiday is timely under 28 U. S. C. § 2101 (c)
and Rule 6 (a) of the Rules of Civil Procedure. Pp. 40-41.
3. In 1927 petitioner obtained a Colorado judgment against respondent, which was revived in Colorado in 1945 on personal service
upon respondent in Missouri. Suit was then brought in Missouri
on the revived Colorado judgment. The Supreme Court of Missouri, though assuming that the judgment was valid in Colorado;
refused to enforce it because, under Missouri law, the original judgment could not have -been revived in 1945.. Hedld: The decision of
the Missouri Court that, whatever the effect of revivor under
Colorado law, the Colorado judgment was not entitled to full faith
and credit in Missouri, is erroneous. Roche v. McDonald, 275
U. S. 449. Pp. 41-45.
4. The question of the status of the 1945 judgment under Colorado
law, and the question whether the service on which the Colorado
judgment was revived satisfied due process, which were not passed
upon by the Missouri Court, will be open on remand of the cause.
P. 44.
358 Mo. 65, 213'S. W. 2d 416, reversed.

The Supreme Court of Misso'ari refused enforcement of
a Colorado judgment. 358 Mo. 65, 213 S. W. 2d 416.
Treating the appeal papers as a petition for certiorari,

this Court grants certiorari and reverses the judgment.
Pp. 40-41, 45.

UNION NATIONAL BANK v. LAMB.
38

Opinion of the Court.

Maurice J. O'Sullivan argued the cause and filed a brief
for appellant.
Daniel L. Brenner submitted on brief for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Missouri has a statute which limits the life of a judgment to ten years afier its original rendition or tn years
after its revival.1 Missouri also provides that no judgment can be revived after ten years from its rendition.2
These provisions are applicable to all judgments whether
rendered by a Missouri court or by any other court.
Petitioner has a Colorado judgment against respondent
It was obtained in 1927 and revived in Colorado I in 1945
on personal service upon respondent in Missouri. Suit
was then brought in Missouri on the revived Colorado
judgment. The Supreme Court of Missouri, though
assuming that the judgment was valid in Colorado, refused to enforce it because the original judgment under.
Missouri's law could not have been revived in 1945. It
held that the lex fori governs the limitations of actions
and that the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the Constitution, Art. IV, § 1, did not require Missouri to recognize
Colorado's more lenient policy as respects revival of
judgments. 358 Mo. 65, 213 S. W. 2d 416.
1. Petitioner sought to bring the case here by appeal.
But we postponed the question of jurisdiction to the merits. Certiorari, not appeal, is the route by which the
question whether or not full faith and credit has been
given a foreign judgment is brought here. Roche v.
McDonald, 275 U. S. 449; Morris v. Jones, 329 U. S. 545.
1
2

1 Rev. Stat. Mo. 1939, § 1038.
1 Rev. Stat. Mo. 1939, § 1271.

31

Colo. Stat. Ann. 1935, e. 6, Rule 54 (h); 3 id.,"c. 93, § 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

Hence we treat the papers as a petition for certiorari,
28 U. S. C. § 2103, and grant it.
2. The opinion of the Supreme Court of Missouri was
handed down July 12, 1948, and the motion for rehearing or for transfer to the court en banc' was denied September 13, 1948. The appeal was allowed by the Missouri court on December 13, 1948. That was within three
months and therefore timely prior to the revision of the
Judicial Code. But 28 U. S. C. § 2101 (c), effective
September 1, 1948, reduced that period to ninety days.
The ninetieth day was December 12, 1948, which was a
Sunday. There is a contrariety of views whether an act
which by statute is required to be done within a stated
period may be done a day later when the last day of the
period falls on Sunday.5 Thus Street v. United"States,
133 U. S.299, treating Sunday as a dies non under a statute which authorized the President to transfer army
officers from active duty and to fill vacancies in the active
list on or before January 1, 1871, allowed the action to be
taken on the following day. We think the policy of
that decision is applicable to 28 U. S. C. § 2101 (c).
Rule 6 (a) of the Rules of Civil Procedure provides that
where the last day for performance of an act falls on a
Sunday or a legal holiday, performance on the next day
which is not -a Sunday or legal holiday is timely.' That
'See Gorman v. Washington University, 316 U. S. 98.

5 Pro: Street v. United States,
133'U. S. 299; Sherwood Bros. v.
District of Columbia, 72 App. D. C. 155, 113 F. 2d 162; Wilson v.
Southern R. Co., 147 F. 2d 165. Contra: Johnson v. Meyers, 54 F.
417; Meyer v. Hot Springs Imp. Co., 169 F. 628; Siegelachiffer v.
Penn. Mut. Life Ins. Co., 248 F. 226; Larkin Packer Co. v. Hinderliter
Tool Co., 60 F. 2d 491, Waiters v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 76 F. 2d

599;
6 Rule 6 (a) provides: "In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by these rules, by order of court, or by any appli-'
cable statute, the day of the act, event, or default after which' the

UNION NATIONAL BANK v. LAMB.
38

Opinion of the Court.

rule provides the method for computation of time prescribed or allowed not only by the rules or by order of
court but by "any applicable statute." Since the rule
had the concurrence of Congress," and since no contrary
policy is expressed in the statute governing this review,
we think that the considerations of liberality and leniency
which find expression in Rule 6 (a) are equally applicable
to 28 U. S. C. § 2101 (c). The appeal therefore did not
fail for lack of timeliness.
3. Roche v. McDonald is dispositive of the merits.
Roche had a Washington judgment against McDonald.
He brought suit on that judgment in Oregon. He obtained a judgment in Oregon at a time when the original
judgment had by Washington law expired and could not
be revived. Roche then sued in Washington on the
Oregon judgment. The Court reversed the Supreme
Court of Washington which had held that full faith and
credit need not be given the Oregon judgment since it
would have been void and of no effect if rendered in
Washington. The Court held that once the court of the
sister State had jurisdiction over the parties and of the
subject matter its judgment was valid and could not be
impeached in the State of the forum, even though it
could not have been obtained there. That decision was
in line with Fauntleroyv. Lum, 210 U. -S:230 and Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290. For in those cases the Court
designated period of time begins to run is not to be included. The
last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it is a
Sunday or a legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the
end of the next day which is neither a Sunday nor a holiday. When
the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than 7 days, intermediate Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
A half holiday shall be considered as other days and not as a holiday."
7
See Act of June 19, 1934, 48 Stat. 1064, 28 U. S. C. § 723c, now
§ 2072; Rule 86, Rules of Civil Procedure; Sibbach v. Wilson & Co.,
312 U. S. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337-U. S.

had held that the State of the forum could not defeat
the foreign judgment because it was obtained by a procedure hostile to or inconsistent with that of the forum
or because it was based on a cause of action which the
forum itself would not have recognized.
Any other result would defeat the aim of the Full Faith
and Credit Clause and the statute enacted pursuant to
it.' It is when a. clash of policies between two states
emerges that the need of the Clause is the greatest. It
and the statute which implements it are indeed designed
to resolve such controversies. Morris v. Jones, supra.
There is no room for an exception, as Roche v. McDonald
makes plain, where the clash of policies relates to revived
judgments rather than to the nature of the underlying
claim as in Fauntleroyv. Lum, supra. It is the judgment
that must be given full faith and credit. In neither case
can its integrity be impaired, save for attacks on the jurisdiction of the court that rendered it.
Cases of statute of limitations against a cause of action
on a judgment (M'Elmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 312) in8Article

IV, § 1 of the Constitution provides: "Full Faith an& -

Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records, and
judicial Proceedings of every other State. And the Congress may
by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records
.and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof."
The Act of Congress enacted pursuant to the Clause (28 U. S. C.
§ 1738), in part reads as follows:
"The records and judicial proceedings of any court of any such
State, Territorv .or Possession, or copies thereof, shall be proved
or admitted in 6ther courts within the United States and its Territories and Possessions by the attestation of the clerk and seal of
the court annexed, if a seal exists, together with a certificate of a
judge of the court that the said attestation is in proper form.
. "Such Acts, records and judicial proceedings or copies thereof,
so
authenticated, shall have the same full faith and credit in every
court within the United States and its Territories and Possessions.
as they have by law or usage in the courts of such State, Territory
or Possession from which they are taken."

UNION NATIONAL BANK v. LAMB:
38

Opinion of the Court.

volve different considerations, as Christmas v. Rusell,
supra, p. 300, long ago pointed out. They do not undermine the integrity of the judgment on which suit is
brought. In this case it is the 1945 Colorado judgment
that claims full faith and credit in Missouri. No Missouri statute of limitations is tendered to cut off a cause
of action based on judgments of that vintae.
It is argued, however, that under Colorado law the 1945
Colorado judgment is not a new judgment and that the
revivor did no more than extend the statutory period
in which to enforce the old judgment.9 It is said that
those were the assumptions on which the Missouri court
proceeded. But we would have to add to and subtract
from its opinion to give it that meaning. For when it
placed revived judgments on the same basis as original
judgments, it did so because of Missouri not Colorado
law."
This is not a situation where Colorado law also makes
that conclusion plain. The Colorado authorities which
9

There is no concession that under Colorado law revival does

not make a new judgment. Petitioner merely argues that the requirements of due process are less exacting in case of a revived, as
distinguished from an original, judgment.
10The Missouri court stated, 358 Mo. p. 70, 213 S. W. 2d p. 419:
"Definitely, it is the law of this state that a foreign judgment, absent
revival, or a payment thereon as provided in Sec. 1038, is barred
in 10 years from the date of its original rendition regardless of what
the limitation period may be under the law of the state where the
judgment was rendered. Northwestern Brewer'Supply Co. v. Vorhees [356 Mo. 699, 203 S. W. 2d 422].

And the only reasonable con-

elusion to- draw is that a revived judgment, domestic or foreign,
absent a payment as provided in Sec. 1038, is barred .under said
section unless the revival was within 10 years from the date of orig-

inal rendition or, if such is the case, within 10 years' from the last
revival. In other words, a foreign judgment, original or revived, has
the same standing in Missouri, no better, no worse, than a domestic
judgment. This does not run counter to the full faith and credit

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

have been cited to us indeed seem to hold just the opposite. Thus La Fitte v. Salisbury, 43 Colo. 248, 95 P.
1065, holds that a revived judgment has the effect of a
new one.1 We are referred to no Colorado authorities to
the contrary.
But since the status of the 1945 judgment under Colorado law was not passed upon by the Missouri court,
we do not determine the question. For the same reason
we do not consider whether the service on which the
Colorado judgment was revived satisfied due process.
See Owens v. Henry, 161 U. S. 642. Both of those questions will be open on remand of the cause.
The suggestion that we follow the course taken in Minnesota v. National Tea, Co., 309 U. S. 551, and vacate
the judgment and remand the cause to the Missouri court
so that it may first pass on these questions would be
appropriate only if it were uncertain whether that court
adjudicated a federal question. That course is singularly
inappropriate here since it is plain that the Missouri court
held that, whatever the effect of revivor under Colorado
law, the Colorado judgment was not entitled to full faith
provision of the federal Constitution, because, as we have seen, the
enforcement of a foreign judgment goes to the remedy only and that
is a-matter for the law of the forum."
fA rthwestern Brewer8 Supply Co. v. Vorhees, which the court
cites, did not involve a revived judgment. It merely held that a
Wisconsin judgment sued on in Missouri was subject to Missouri's
statute of limitations. The fact that the Missouri court in the
present case held that the revived Colorado judgment was governed
by that rule throws no light on the status of the revived judgment
under Colorado law.
"1 Colo. Stat. Ann. 1935, c. 6, Rule 54 (h) provides in part:
"A, revived judgment must be entered within 20 years after the
entry of the judgment which it revives, and may be enforced and
made a lien in the same manner and for like period as an original
judgment."

UNION NATIONAL BANK v. LAMB.
38

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

and credit in Missouri.. That holding is a ruling on a
federal question and it cannot stand if, as assumed, the
Colorado judgment had the force and effect of a new one.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE dissent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

The Court finds that Roche v. McDonald, 275 U. S.
449, is "dispositive of the merits" of this case. I agree
that that case demands the remand of this one; more
than that can be found only by misconceiving what this
case is about or what Roche v. McDonald decided.
1. Article IV, § 1 of the Constitution commands the
courts of each State to give "Full Faith and Credit . . .
to the . . . judicial Proceedings of every other State,"
and we have interpreted this command so straitly as to
mean that the State of the forum cannot go behind the
judgment of a sister State to establish such an allegation as
that the judgment was procured by fraud, Christmas v.
Russell, 5 Wall. 290, or that the judgment creditor was
not the real party in interest, Titus v. Wallick, 306 U. S.
282. We have even required a State which prohibited
the enforcement of gambling contracts to give full faith
and credit to another State's judgment ipon such a
contract when the contract itself was entered in the
State which regardea it as illegal. Fauntleroy v. Lum,
210 U. S. 230. See also Kenney v. Supreme Lodge, 252
U. S. 411; Morris v. Jones, 329 U. S. 545.
2. Considerations of policy lying behind the Full Faith:
and Credit Clause, however, are by no means so forcibly
presented where the issue is simply whether the forum
must respect the limitation period attached to a f6reign
judgment or whether it may apply its own. This Court
has accordingly held that a State may refuse to enforce

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

the judgment of another State brought later than its
own statute of limitations permits even though the judgment would still have been enforceable in the State
which rendered it. M'Elmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 312;
Bacon v. Howard, 20 How. 22.
3. Conversely, where the enforcement of a judgment
by State A is sought in State B, which has a longer limitation period than State A, State B is plainly free to
enter its own judgment upon the basis of State A's original judgment, even though that judgment would no
longer be enforceable in State A. If enforcement of
State B's new judgment is then sought in State A, State
A cannot refuse to enforce it without violating the principle that the State where enforcement of a judgment is
sought cannot look behind the judgment. That was the
situation in Roche v. McDonald, 275 U. S.449, and
we'there held.
4. The present situation is this: Colorado entered a
judgment in 1927 which in' 1945 was there revived in
accordance with Colorado's procedure. In 1945 the 1927
judgment could not have been enforced in Missouri because barred by that State's statute of limitations. The
question whether the 1945 proceedings gave rise to a
judgment enforceable in Missouri thus depends, obviously, on whether 'those proceedings, created a new Colorado judgment, or whether they merely had the effect
of extending the Colorado statute of limitations on the
old judgment. Only in the former case would Roche
-v.
McDonald be "dispositive of :the merits"; in the latter,
it is equally clear that M'Elmoyle v. Cohen, supra, 13
Pet. 312, and Bacon v. Howard, supra,20 How. 22, would
be controlling. Fundamental, therefore, to the issue of
full faith and credit is an initial determination as to the
effect in Colorado of its -reviver proceedings.
5. The opinion of the Supreme Court of Missouri is
not unequivocal. It could hardly, however, have assumed

UNION NATIONAL BANK v. LAMB.
38

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

the law of Colorado to be that reviver proceedings create
a new judgment, for it chiefly relied upon i decision
of its own according full recognition to Roche v. McDonald and other cases invoking the principle that the forum
cannot look behind a judgment brought there for enforcement. See Northwestern Brewers Supply Co. v.
Vorhees, 356 Mo. 699, 703, 203 S. W. 2d 422, 424. Surely
we ought not to attribute to a State court- a flagrant
disregard of the decisions of this Court, particularly when
it shows awareness of these decisions.' The more obvious
interpretation of the Missouri court's opinion is that it
assumed the effect of the Colorado proceedings to be
what the face of the Colorado statute implies, namely;
to extend the statute .of limitations on the original judgment.2 We should affirm, therefore, but for language
which suggests a third view: that because the original
judgment would have been unenforceable in Missouri
at the time of the reviver proceedings, those proceedings were not entitled to full faith and credit no matter
what their effect under Colorado law. If in fact the
Colorado proceedings had resulted in a new judgment,
this view would have disregarded Roche v. McDonald.
But a State court may ieach the right result despite an
awkward formfilation of the issue before it. Petitioner,
to be entitled to redress, must establish, that Colorado
gave it a judgment whieh Missouri flouted, and it fails
1 The improbability that this was the view of the Missouri courts
is emphasized by the fact that such a view would inevitably inject
into the case an issue which in fact they put aside as irrelevant: the
effectiveness of personal service upon defendant in Missouri to obtain
jurisdiction in Colorado to supplant the old judgment by a new One.
See Owens v. Henry, 161 U. S. 642.
21,.. . from and after twenty years from the entry of final judgment in any court of this state, the same shall be considered as
satisfied in full, unless revived as provided by law." -.3 Colo. Stat.
Ann. 1935, c. 93,'§ 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

to do so unless it shows that under Colorado law a judgment of reviver is a new judgment.
6. The Court does not find that petitioner has sustained this burden, and we should neither initiate an
independent examination of Colorado law nor rest upon
phrases in a single decision that does not explicitly adjudicate the question. Yet the Court concludes, "In this
case it is the 1945 Colorado judgment that claims full
faith and credit in Missouri. No Missouri statute of
limitations is tendered to cut off a cause of action basedonl judgments of that vintage." But the very question
,of Colorado law in issue is whether the 1945 proceedings
did in fact create a new judgment entitled to claim full
faith and credit. Since in the view most favorable to
petitioner it is not clear whether the courts of Missouri
have resolved this issue against petitioner or left it undecided, we should not by affirming foreclose all opportunity for petitioner to establish that the true effect of
the reviver proceedings was to grant it a new judgment.
But neither should we foreclose the issue in petitioner's
favor.
In view of the unresolved elements of the situation,
the procedure outlined in Minnesota v. National Tea
Co., .309 U. S.551, 557, should be followed in disposing
of this case. Accordingly, I would vacate the judgment
of the Supreme Court of Missouri and remand the case
for further proceedings.

