AERONAUTICAL LODGE v. CAMPBELL.

521

Syllabus.

AERONAUTICAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT LODGE

727 v. CAMPBELL

ET AL,

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 333.

Argued January 31, 1949.-Decided June 20, 1949.

After his discharge from military service in World War II, a veteran
was reemployed by his former private employer, in accordance
with § 8 of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940. During
his military service, the collective bargaining agreement between
his union and the employer had been modified so as to give union
chairmen top seniority -in the event of layoffs. Within one year
after his reemployment, the veteran was laid off temporarily,
although union chairmen who had less time with .the company
were retained. The employer refused to compensate the veteran
for the period of the layoff. Held: The veteran's rights under § 8
of the Act were not infringed. Pp. 522-529.
169 F. 2d 252, reversed.

Three veterans sued for compensation for the period
of a layoff, alleged to have been in violation of their rights
under the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940.
The Djstrict Court gave judgment for the veterans. A
labor union, which had been -allowed to intervene to protect its labor contract, appealed to the Court of Appeals,
which affirmed the judgment. 169 F. 2d 252. This Court
granted certiorari. 335 U. S.869. Reversed, p. 529.
Maurice J. Hindin argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Morison argued the cause
for Campbell et al., individual respondents, With him
on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman, Paul A.
Sweeney and Morton Hollander.
Robert H. Canan submitted on brief for the Lockheed
Aircraft Corporation, respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

337 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We brought this case here, 335 U. S. 869, to resolve
a confliqt of views between two Courts of Appeals in their
interpretation of the rights given to veterans of World
War II by § 8 of the Selective Training and Service Act
of 1940, as amended, 54 S tat. 885, 890, 58 Stat. 798, 50
U. S. C. App. § 308. Three veterans brought this suit for
compensation for the period of a layoff while employed at
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, a respondent here. The
facts controlling the legal claims of all three may be represented by the circumstances attending Kirk's employment and layoff.1
The petitioner, Aeronautical Industrial District Lodge
No. 727, was the duly recognized collective bargaining
agent of the employees at Lockheed Aircraft Corporation.
In September, 1941, the Union had negotiated an agreement with Lockheed covering the range of subjects touching conditions of employment typical of such agreements
in the aircraft industry. This agreement was in effect
when Kirk was employed in August, 1942, by Vega Aircraft Corpo'ration, which afterwards was merged with
Lockheed. He joined the Union and'has remained a
member throughout this controversy. He left Lockheed
two years later to enter the Army, from which he was
honorably discharged in January, 1946, and was restored
to his job at Lockheed in accordance With § 8 (a) of the
Selective. Service Act. 54 Stat. 885, 890,'as amended, 50
U. S. C. App. § 308 (a). While Kirk was in military service his Union made a new agreement with Lockheed modiI One of the three veterans, James L. Campbell, withdrew from
the Union on the first day of March, 1946, but this did not affect
his status as an employee with the' company. There is no contention that his withdrawal 'from the Union affects in any manner
his rights under § 8 of the Act, or that withdrawal from the Union
should cause a different result.

AERONAUTICAL LODGE v. CAMPBELL.
521

523

Opinion of the Court.

fying the terms of the 1941 agreement in various partidulars. Crucial to the issue here was a change in the
seniority provisions of the former. agreement. The
change provided that "Union Chairmen who have acquired seniority shall be deemed to have top seniority
so long as they remain Chair-men." ' . In plain English
this means that thereafter employees who served *as
2The collectivo bargaining agreement signed in 1941, so far as
seniority was concerned, provided:
"In case of a slack in production, layoffs are to be made primarily
on the basis of the principle of seniority. Due consideration will
be given, however, to (a) knowledge, training, ability, skill and
efficiency, and (b) deportment record and other factors. If it becomes necessary to reduce the working, force in any plant or department, a plan of layoff procedure will be prepared by the management
and submitted to the Union for approval. If such plan is not acceptable to the Union the Company agrees- to enter negotiations with
the Union and to aftempt, to arrive at a mutually agreeable plan.
If, however, at the. end of one working week from the date the
Company submitted its original plan of layoff procedure to the
Union no new plan has been mutually agreed-to, the Company may
proceed according to its proposed plan of layoff subject to Article
II, Section 6." 1941 Agreement,.Art. III,.§ 5.
The later agreement provided:
"(A) General Layoff Procedure. Layoffs shall be made in order
of Company-wide seniority applied by occupation where ability,
skill. and efficiency. are substantially equal. However, in the cage
.of employees with four years' or more seniority, the'Company may,
.in its discretion, retain them in order of their Company-wide seniority, regardless of occupation, where ability, skill and efficiency are
substantially equal. Any claim of unjust discrimination in the exercise of such discretion may be taken up as a grievance. Employees
who have not acquired seniority rights may be laid off without regard
to relative length of service.

"(D) Top Seniority for Union Chairmen for Purpose of Layoffs.
For the purpose of applying the Temporary and Generat Layoff
Procedures, Union Chairmen -who have acquired.seniority shall be
deemed to have top seniority so long as they remain Chairmi:f..
1945 Agreement, Art. IV, § 3 (A), (D).

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

union chairmen were entitled to be retained in case of
layoffs regardless of their length of service in the plant.
In the latter part of June, 1946, and within a year after
Kirk's reemployment, it was necessary to lay off employees in Kirk's industrial unit. These layoffs followed the
conventional sequence of seniority, time for military service being duly credited, with the exception that union
chairmen were retained in accordance with the 1945
agreement, even though they had less time with the
company than those who were laid off, veterans or not.
Kirk was among those laid off, and the retention as union
chairmen of men who were junior to him is the basis of
his claim that § 8 of the Act had been infringed.' Kirk
3These

are the relevant statutory provisions:
"(a) Any person inducted. into. the land or naval forces under
this Act for training and service, who, in the judgment of those in
authority over him, satisfactorily completes his period of training
and service under section 3 (b) shall be entitled to a certificate to
that effect upon the completion of such period of training and service,
which shal include a record of any special proficiency or merit
attained. ..
"(b) In the. case of any such person who, in order to perform
such training and service, has left or leaves a position, other than
a temporary position, in the employ of any employer and who (1) receiyes such cettificate, (2) is still qualified to perform the duties
of such position, and-43) makes application for reemployment within
ninety days after he is relieved from such training and service or
from hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not
mor6 than one year"(B) if such position was in the employ of a private employer,
such employer shall restore such person to such position or to a
position of like seniority, status, and pay unless the employer's circumstafices have so changed as to make it impossible or unreasonable
to do so;
"(c) Any person wvho ig restored to a position in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (A) or (B) of subsection (b) shall be

AERONAUTICAL LODGE v. CAMPBELL.
521

525

Opinion of the Court.

was brought back to work within a month, but Lockheed
refused to pay him for the time he was laid off. For this
sum he brought this suit. Petitioner Union was allowed
to intervene in order to protect its labor contract. Judgment went for Kirk, and the Union alone took the case
to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. That
court affirmed the judgment,' 169 F. 2d 252, holding
that § 8 of the Act forbade disregard of length of employment, so far as veterans are affected, in enforcing provisions in a collective agreement for the retention of union
chairmen in the event of layoffs, regardless of their length
of service. In so holding it ran counter to a series of
decisions in the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
Gauweiler v. Elastic Stop Nut Corp., 162 F. 2d 448;
Koury v. Elastic Stop Nut Corp., 162 F. 2d 544; Di
Maggio v. Elastic Stop Nut Corp'., 162 F. 2d 546, .and
Payne v. Wright Aeronautical Corp., 162 F. 2d 549.
It is of the essence of collective bargaining.thit it is
a continuous process. Neither the conditions to which it
addresses itself nor the benefits to be secured by it remain
static. They are not frozen even by war. Thus, under
the Act the veteran accumulates time toward his seniority
w hile in the service; he also becomes the beneficiary of
considered as having been on furlough or leave of absence 'during
his period of training and service in the land 6r'naval forces, shall
be so restored without loss of seniority, shall be entitled to participate
in ,insurance or other benefits offered by the employer pursuant
to established rules and practices relating to employees on furlough
or leave of absence in effect with the employer at the time such
person was inducted into such foices, and shall not be discharged
from such position without cause within one year after such restoration." 54 Stat. 885, 890, as amended, 50 U. S. C. App. § 308.
4 Lockheed, the respondent in the District Court, did not appeal.
But since the judgment was not merely for money damages but
also involved the construction of the collective agreement, the Union
had the right to appeal. Fishgold v. Sullivan. Drydock & Repair.
Corp., 328 U. S. 275, 281--84.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

those gains the achievement of which is the constant
thrust of collective bargaining. In other words, the Act
gives him the status of one who has been "on furlough
or leave of absence" but uninterruptedly a member of
the working force on whose behalf successive collective
agreements are made. In this way the Act protects the
furloughed employee, from being prejudiced by any
change in the terms of a collective agreement because
he is "on furlough," but he is not to be favored as a
furloughed employee as against his fellows. This is the
essence of our decision in Fishgold v. Sullivan Drydock &
Repair Corp., 328 U. S. 275.
In providing that a veteran shall be restored to the
position he had before he entered the-military service
"without loss of seniority," § 8 of the Act uses the term
"seniority" without definition. It is thus apparent that
Congress was not creating a system of seniority but recognizing its operation as part of the process of collective
bargaining. We must therefore look to the conventional
uses of the seniority system in the process of collective
bargaining in order to determine the rights of seniority
which the Selective Service Act guaranteed the veteran.
Barring legislation nbt here involved, seniority rights
derive their scope and significance from union contracts,
confined as they almost exclusively are to unionized
industry. See Trailmobile Co. v. Whirls, 331 U. S. 40,
53, n. 21. Thereare great variations in the use of the
seniority ptinciple through collective bargaining bearing
on .the time when seniority begins, determination of the
units subject to the same seniority, and the consequences
which flow from seniority. All these variations disclose
limitations upon the dogmatic use of the principle of
seniority in the interest of the ultimate aims of collective
bargaining. Thus, probationary conditions .must often
be met before seniority begins to operate; somepimes it
becomes retroactive to the date of employmefit; in other

AERONAUTICAL LODGE v. CAMPBELL.
521

527

Opinion of the Court.

instances it is effective only as from the qualifying date;
in some industries it is determined on a company basis,
in others the occupation or the plant is taken as the unit
for seniority determination; sometimes special provisions
are made for workers in key positions; and then again
these factors are found in varying combinations. See
Williamson & Harris, Trends in Collective Bargaining,
100-102 (1945); Harbison, Seniority Policies and Prbcedures as Developed through Collective Bargaining 1-10
(1941).
To draw from the Selective Service Act an implication
that date of employment is the inflexible basis for determining seniority rights as reflected in layoffs is to ignore
a vast body of long-established controlling practices in the
process of collective bargaining of which the seniority
system to which that Act refers is a part. One of the
safeguards insisted upon by unions for the effective functioning of collective bargaining is continuity in office for
its shop stewards or union chairmen. To that end provision is made, as it was made here, .against laying them
off merely on the basis of temporal seniority. Because
they are union chairmen they are not regarded as merely
individual members of the union; they are in a .special
position in relation to collective bargaining for the benefit of the whole union. To retain them as such is not'
an encroachment on the seniority system but a due
regard of union interests which embrace the system of
seniority rights.
These considerations are decisive of the case. The
agreements made by the Union with Lockheed represent
familiar developments in the process of collective bargaining which the Selective Service Act presupposes and1 in
the context of which it must be placed. Kirk's rights,
including seniority, before he entered the service Were
derived from the agreement of 1941. So, likewise,:'were
his rights, including, seniority, as an employee on fur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court,

337 U. S.

lough defined by the agreement of 1945, inasmuch as that
agreement-in no wise disadvantaged his position because
he was in the military service.
In the ordinary and orderly course of formulating, the
terms of employment, the 1945 agreement between the
Union and Lockheed in some directions modified the provisions of the 1941 agreement. A labor agreement is a
code for the government of an industrial enterprise and,
like all government, ultimately depends *for its effectiveness on the quality of enforcement of its code. Because a
labor agreement assumes the. proper adjustment of grievances at their source, the union chairmen play a very
important role in the whole process of collective bargaining. Therefore it is deemed, highly desirable that union
chairmen .have the authority and skill which are derived
from continuity in office. A provision for the retention
of union chairmen beyond the routine requirements of
seniority is not at all uncommon and surely ought not to
be deemed arbitrary or discriminatory.' The fact that it
may involve, as in Kirk's case, the .temporary layoff ol a
5

See Greenman, Getting Along With Unions 26 (1948); Union
Agreements in the Cotfon-Textile Industry, U. S. Dept. of Labor,
Bull. No. 885, p. 28 (1946); Thomas, Automobile Unionism 56
(1941); Collective Bargaining Provisions, Seniority Provisions, U. S.
Dept. of Labor 28-29 (1948); Collective Bargaining in the Office,
American Management Assn., Research Rep. No. 12, p. 72. The advantage of this modification in seniority according to length of service
in the plant is "the mutual interest of union and management' in
-preserving the continuity of the bargaining and grievance adjustment personnel." Seniority Provisions in Union Agreements, U. S.
Dept. of Labor, Serial No. R. 1308, p. 7 (1941). While there is not
complete agreement on the advantage of seniority for union chairmen, it .is certainly within the area of collective bargaining. See
Williamson and Harris, .Trends in Collective Bargaining 101-103
(1945); see Greenman, Getting Along With Unions 85-86 (1948).
The National War Labor Board recognized "that the functions of

AERONAUTICAL LODGE v. CAMPBELL. '529
521

Opinion of the Court.

veteran while a nonveteran chairman with less time at the
plant is retained, is wholly unrelated to the veteran's
absence in the service. Under the 1945 agreement chairmen were to be elected once a year, and unless the election occurred on the day before a veteran returned to the
plant, his chance of election would be the same as that of
persons who had been continuously at work in-the plant.
Of course, the Selective Service Act restricts a readjustment of seniority rights during the veteran's absence
to the disadvantage of the veteran. But-it would be an
undue restriction of the process of collective bargainiing
(without compensating gain to the veteran) to forbid
changes in collective bargaining arrangements .which
secure a fixed tenure for union cthairmen, whereby veterans as well as nonveterans are benefited by promoting
greater protection of their rights and sinoother, operation
of labor-management relations.
All this presupposes, obviously, that an agreement containing the 1945 provisions expresses honest desires for
the protection of the interests of all members of the Uni6n
and is not a skillful device of hostility to veterans. There
is not the remotest suggestion that the 1945 agreement
was other than what it purported to be-the means for
securing both to veterans and to nonveterans better working conditions through elected leaders not subject to the
contingencies of a labor turnover.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concurs in the result.
shop stewards and other local union officials were of value to a
company as well as to its. employees in settling and preventing
labor grievances. For this reason, it usually directed seniority preference for union officials-in disputes over the issue." The Termin a-T
tion Report of the National War Labor Board, U. S. Dept. of Labor,
Vol. T,p. 148.

