WILLIAMS v. NEW YORK.
Syllabus.

WILLIAMS V. NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 671.

Argued April 21, 1949.-Decided June 6, 1949.

The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not
require that a person convicted after a fair trial be confronted with
and permitted to cross-examine witnesses as to his prior criminal
record considered by the judge in accordance with a state statute
in determining what sentence to impose pursuant to broad discretion vested in him under state law-even when the jury recommends life imprisonment and the judge imposes a death sentence.
Pp. 242-252.
(a) It has long been the practice to permit the sentencing judge
to exercise a wide discretion as to the sources and types of information used to assist him in determining the sentence to be imposed
within the limits fixed by law. P. 246.
(b) Modern concepts individualizing punishment have made
it all the more necessary that a sentencing judge not be denied
an opportunity to obtain pertinent information by a requirement
of rigid adherence to restrictive rules of evidence properly applicable to the trial. Pp. 246-249.
-(c) To deprive the sentencing judge of information contained
in reports of probation officers would undermine modern penological
procedural policies that have been cautiously adopted throughout
the nation after careful consideration and experimentation. Pp,
249.-250.
(d) In considering the sentence to be imposed after conviction,
the sentencing judge is not restricted to information received in
open court. Pp. 250-251.
(e) A different result is not required when a death sentence is
imposed. Pp. 251-252.'
298 N. Y. 803, 83 N. E. 2d.698, affirmed.

After a fair trial, appellant was convicted of

murder in

the first degree and the jury recommended life imprisonment.

After considering information as to his previous

criminal record without permittiig him to confront .q
cross-examine the witnesses on that subject, the trid

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

judge sentenced him to "death. The Court of Appeals
of New York affirmed. 298 N. Y. 803, 83 N. E. 2d 698.
On appeal to this Court, affirmed, p. 252.
John F. Finerty argued the cause for appellant.
him on the brief was Edward H. Levine.

With

Solomon A. Klein argued the cause for reslpndent.
With him on the brief was Miles F. McDonald.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
A jury in a New York state court found appellant guilty
of murder in the first degree.' The jury recommended
life imprisonment, but the trial judge imposed sentence
of death.2 In giving his reasons for imposing the death
sentence the judge discussed in open court the evidence
upon ,which the jury had convicted stating that this evidence had been considered in the light of additional information obtained through the court's "Probation Department, and through other sources." Consideration of
1 "The killing of a human being, unless it is excusable or justifiable,

is murder in the first degree, when committed:
"2. By an act imminently dangerous to others, and evincing a
depraved mind, regardless of human' life, although* without a premeditated design to effect the death of any individual; or without
a design to effect death, by a person engaged in the commission of,
or in an attempt to commit a'felony, either upon or affecting- the-person killed or otherwise ....
" New York Penal Law § 1044.
2 "Murder in the first degree is punishable by death, unless the
jury recommends life imprisonment as provided by section ten hundred forty-five-a." New York Penal Law § 1045.
."A jury finding a person guilty of murder in the first degree, as
defined by subdivision two of section ten hundred. forty-four, may,
as a part of its verdict, recommend that the defendant be imprisoned
for the term of his, natural life. Upon such recommendation, the
court may sentence the defendant to imprisonrntn q~r the term of
hisnatural life;" New York P~nal Law § l145-a:

WILLIAMS v. NEW YORK.
241

Opinion of the Court.

this additional information was pursuant to § 482 of New
York Criminal Code which provides:
Before rendering judgment or pronouncing
sentence the court shall cause the defendant's preVious criminal record to be submitted to it, including
any reports that may have been made as a result of a
mental, phychiatric [sic] or physical examination of
such person, and may seek any information that will
aid the court in determining the proper treatment of
such defendant."
The Court of Appeals of New York affirmed the conviction and sentence over the contention that as construed
and applied the controlling penal statutes are in violation
of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States "in that the
sentence of death was based upon information supplied
by witnesses with whom the accused had not been confronted and as to whom he had no opportunity for crossexamination or rebuttal ....
"
298 N. Y. 803, 804, 83
N. E. 2d 698, 699. Because the statutes were sustained
over this constitutional challenge the case is here on
appeal under 28 U. S.C. § 1257 (2).
The narrow contention here makes it unnecessary to
set out the facts at length. The record shows a carefully
conducted trial lasting more than two weeks in which
appellant was represented by three appointed lawyers
who conducted his defense with fidelity and zeal. ..
The
evidence proved a wholly indefensible murder committed
by a person engaged in a burglary. The judge instructed
the jury that if it returned a verdict of guilty as charged,
without recommendation for life sentence, "The Court
must impose the death penalty," but if such recommendation was made, "the Court may impose a life sentence."
The judge went on to emphasize that "the Court is not
bound to accept your recommendation."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

About five weeks after the verdict of guilty with recommendation of life imprisonment, and after a statutory
pre-sentence investigation report to the 'judge, the defendant was brought to court to be sentenced. Asked
what he had to say, appellant protested his innocence.
After each of his three lawyers had appealed to the court
to accept the jury's recommendation of a life sentence,
the -judge gave reasons why he felt that the. death sentence should be imposed. He narrated the shocking
details of the crime as shown by the trial evidence, expressing his own complete belief in appellant's guilt. He
stated that the pre-sentence investigation revealed many
material facts concerning appellant's background which
though relevant to the question of punishment could not
properly have been brought to the attention of the jury
inits consideration of the question of guilt, He referred
to the experience appellant "had had on thirty other
burglaries in and about the same vicinity" where the
murder had been committed. The appellant had not
been convicted of these burglaries although the judge
had information that he had confessed to some and
had been identified as the perpetrator of some of the
others. The judge also referred 6 certain activities of
appellant as shown by the probation report that indicated appellant possessed "a morbid sexuality" and classified him as a "menace to society." -The accurady of the
statements made by the judge as to appellant's background and past practices was not challenged by appellant or his counsel, nor was the judge asked to disregard
apy of them or to afford appellant a chance to refute or
.discredit any of them by cross-examination or otherwise.
The case presents a serious and difficult question. The
question relates to the rules of evidence. applicable to
the manner in which a judge may obtain information to
guide him in the imposition of sentence upon an already
6onvicted defendant. Within limits fixed by statutes,

WILLIAMS v. NEW YORK.
241

Opinion of the Court.

New York judges are given a broad discretion to decide
the type and extent of punishment for convicted defendants. Here, for example, the judge's discretion was to
sentence to life imprisonment or death. To aid a judge
in exercising this discretion intelligently the New Vrork
procedural policy encourages him to consider information
about the convicted person's past life, health, habits,
conduct, and mental and moral propensities. The sentencing judge may consider such information even though
obtained outside the courtroom from persons whom a
defendant has not been permitted to confront or crossexamine. It is the consideration of information obtained
by a sentencing judge in this manner that is the basis
for appellant's broad constitutional challenge to the New
York statutory policy.
Appellant urges that the New York statutory policy is
in irreconcilable conflict with the underlying philosophy
of a second procedural policy grounded in the due process
of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. That policy
as stated in In re Oliver, 333 U. S. 257, 273, is in part
that no person--shall be tried and convicted of an offense
unless he is given reasonable notice of the charges against
him and is afforded an opportunity to examine adverse
witnesses.3 That the due process clause does provide
these salutary and time-tested pr4tections where the question for consideration is the guilt of a qefendant seems
entirely clear from the genesis and historical evolution of
the clause. SeeJ e. g., Chambers.v. Florida,309 U. S. 227,
236-237, and authorities cited in note 10.
3 Other due process requirements mentioned in the Oliver case
were that the defendant should be permitted to offer evidence in
his own behalf and lU represented by counsel. Appellant, however,
was represented by counsel both when tried and sentenced, And the
sentencing judge did not decline to permit introduction of any evidence. In response to the judge's, inquiry, statements were made
by appellant and his counsel.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

Tribunals passing on the guilt of a defendant always
have been hedged in by strict evidentiary procedural limitations.' But both before and since the American colonies became a nation, courts in this country and in England practiced a policy under which a sentencing judge
could exercise a wide discretion in the sources and types
of evidence used to assist him in determining the kind and
extent of punishment to be imposed within limits fixed by
law.' Out-of-court affidavits have been used frequently,
and of course in the smaller communities sentencing
judges naturally have in mind their knowledge of the
personalities and backgrounds of convicted offenders.' A
recent manifestation of the historical latitude allowed
sentencing judges appears in Rule 32 of the Federal Rules
of Criminal Procedure. That rule provides for consideration by federal judges of reports made by probation
officers containing information about a convicted defend-,
ant, including such information "as may be helpful in
imposing sentence or in granting probation or in the
correctional treatment of the defendant . . . ."
In addition to the historical basis for different evidentiary rules governing trial and sentencing procedures
there are sound practical reasons for the distinction. In
a trial before verdict the issue is whether a defendant is
guilty' of having engaged in certain criminal conduct of
which he has been specifically accused. Rules of eviCovrts have treated the rules of evidence applicable to the trial
procedure and the sentencing process differently. See, e. g., Snyder
v. Massachusetts, 291 U. S.97, 107, 128-129; Graham v. West Virginia, 224 U. S. 616, 619; United States v. Dalhover, 96 F. 2d 355,
359-360. But cf. State v.Stevenson, 64 W. Va. 392, 62 S. E. 688.
5See cases collected in 14 Am. & Eng. Ann. Cas. 968, et seq.; 77
A. L. R. 1211, et seq.; 86 A. L. RI. 832, et seq. See also Note, The
Admissibility of CharacterEvidence in Determining Sentence, 9 U. of
Chi. L. Rev. 715 (1942).

' See Pound, Criminal Justice in America 178 (1930).
7See Stephan v. United States, 133 F. 2d 87, 100. See also 18
U. S. C. § 3655.

WILLIAMS v. NEW YORK.
241

Opinion of 'the Court.

dence have been fashioned for criminal trials which narrowly confine the trial contest to evidence that is strictly
relevant to the particular offense charged. These rules
rest in part on a necessity to prevent a time-consuming
and confusing trial of collateral issues. They were also
designed to prevent tribunals concerned solely with the
issue of guilt of a particular offense froni being influenced
to convict for that offense by evidence that the defendant
had habitually engaged in other misconduct. A sentencing judge, however, is not confined to the narrow
issue of guilt. His task within fixed statutory or constitutional limits is to determine the type and extent of
punishment after the issue of guilt has been determined.
Highly relevant-if not essential-to his selection of an
appropriate sentence is the possession of the fullest information possible concerning the defendant's life and
characteristics. 8 And modern concepts individualizing
punishment have made it all the more necessary that a
sentencing judge not be denied an opportunity to obtain
pertinent information by a requirement of rigid adherence to restrictive rules of evidence properly applicable
to the trial.
Undoubtedly the New York statutes emphasize a prevalent modern philosophy of penology that the punishment
should fit the offender and not merely the crime. People
v. Johnson, 252 N. Y. 387, 392, 169 N. E. 619, 621. The
belief no longer prevails that every offense in a like legal
category calls for an identical punishment without regard
to the past life and habits of a particular offender. This
whole country hm traveled far friom the period in which
the 'death sentence was an automatic and commonplace
result of convictions-even for offenses today deemed
8

Myerson, Views on Sentencing Criminals, 7 Law Soc. J. 854
(1937); Glueck, Principles of a Rational Penal Code, 41 Harv. L.
Rev. 453 (1928); Warner and Cabot, Administration of Criminal
Justice, 50 Harv. L. Rev. 583, 607 (1937); Comment, Reform in
FederalPenal Procedure,53 Yale L. J. 773 (1944).

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

trivial.'. Today's philosophy of individualizing sentences
makes sharp distinctions for example between first and
repeated- offenders." Indeterminate sentences the ultimate termination of which are sometimes decided by nonjudicial 'agencies have to a large extent taken the place
of the old rigidly fixed punishments." The practice of
probation which relies heavily on non-judicial imple-.
mentation has been accepted as a wise policy. 2 Execution of the' United States parole system rests on the discretion of an administrative parole board. 36 Stat. 819,.
18 U. S. C. §§ 714, 716, now §§ 4202, 4203. Retribution
is no longer the dominant objective of the criminal law.
Reformation and rehabilitation of offenders have become
important goals of criminal jurisprudence."
Modern changes in the treatment of offenders make it
more necessary now than a century ago for observance
"2 Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England (Lewis' ed.
1897) 1756-1757.
10With. respect to this policy in the administration of the Probation A~t this Court has said:: "It is necessary to individualize each
case, to give that careful, humane and comprehensive consideration
to the particular situation of.each offender which would be possible
only in the exercise of a broad discretion." Burns v; United States,
287 U. S. 216, 220. In Pennsylvania v. Ashe, 302 U. S.51, 55, this
Court further stated: "For the determination of sentences, justice
generally requires consideration of more than the particular acts
by which the crime was committed anl that there be taken into
account the circumstances of the offense together with the character
and propensities of the offender." And see Wood and Waite, Crime
and Its Treatment 438-442 (1941).
1 Wood and Waite, Crime and Its Treatment 437 (1941); Orfield,
Criminal Procedure from Arrest to Appeal 556-565 (1947).. See,
e. g., Ill. Rev. Stat. c*.38, § 802 (1939); Cal. Pen. Code (Deering,
1941) § 1168.
12 Glueck, Probation -and Criminal Justice 232 (1933); National
Probation Assn., Directory of Probation and Parole Officers 275
.(1947) ; Cooley, Probation and Delinquency 1927).
"Judge Ulman writing on The Trial Judge's Dilemma discusses
the problems that confront the sentencing judge and qu6tes from

WILLIAMS v. NEW YORK.
241

Opinion of the Court.

of the distinctions in the evidential procedure in the
trial and sentencing processes, //For indeterminate sentences and probation have resulted in an increase in the
-discretionary powers exercised in fixing punishments. In
general, these modern changes have not resulted in making the lot of offenders harder. On the contrary a strong
motivating force for the changes has been the belief
that by careful study of the lives and personalities of
convicted offenders many could be less severely punished
and restored sooner to complete freedom and useful citizenship. This belief to a large extent has been justified.
Under the practice of individualizing punishments, investigational techniques have been given an important
role. ([Probation workers making reports of their investigations have not been trained to prosecute but to aid
offenders] Their reports have been given a high value
by conscientious judges who want to sentence persons
on the best available information rather than on guesswork and inadequate information." To deprive sentencone of his court opinions as to the, factors that a judge should consider in imposing sentence:
"1st. The protection of society against wrong-doers.
""2id. The punishment-or much better-the discipline of the
wrong-doer.
"3rd. The reformation and rehabilitation of.the wrong-doer.
"4th. The deterrence of others from the commission of like offenses.
"It should be obvious that a proper dealing with these factors
involves a study of each case upon an individual basis. Was the
crime a crime against property only, or did it involve danger to
human life? Was it a crime of sudden passion or was it studied
and deliberate? Is the criminal a man so constituted and so habituated to war upon society that there is little or no real hope that
he ever can be anything other than a menace to society--or is he
obviously amenable to reformation?" Glueck, Probation and Criminal Justice 113 (1933).
See also 12 Encyc. of Soc. Science, Penal Institutions 57-64 (1934).
14 The late Federal Judge Lewis B. Schwellenbach in his article on
the difficulties that confront a sentencing judge wrote: "The knowledge of the life of a man, his background and his family, is the only

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

ing judges of this kind of information would undermine
modern penological procedural policies that have been
cautiously adopted throughout the nation after careful
consideration and experimentation. We must recognize
that most of the information now relied upon by judges
to guide them in the intelligent imposition of sentences
would be unavailable if information were restricted to
that given in open court by witnesses subject to cr<ossexamination. And the modern probation report draws
on information concerning every aspect of a defendant's
life. 5 The type and extent of this information make
totally impractical if not impossible open court testimony
with cross-examination. Such a procedure could endlessly delay criminal administration in a retrial of collateral issues.
The considerations we have set out admonish us against
treating the due process clause as a uniform command
that courts throughout the Nation abandon their age-old
proper basis for the determination as to his treatment. There is no
substitute for information. The sentencing judge in the federal court
has the tools with which to acquire that information. Failure to
make full use of those tools cannot be justified." Schwellenbach,
Information vs. Intuition in the Imposition of Sentence, 27 J. Am.
Jud. Soc. 52 (1943).. And see 'McGuire and Holtzoff, The Problem
of Sentewce in the Criminal Law, 20 B. U. L. Rev. 423 (1940).
. 15A publication circulated by the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts contains a suggested form for all United States
probation reports and serves as an example of the type of information
contained in the reports. This form consists of thirteen "marginal
headings." (1) Offense; (2) Prior Record; (3) Family History';
(4) Home and Neighborhood; (5) Education; (6) Religion; (7) Interests and Activities; (8) Health (physical and mental); (9) Employnent; (10) Resources; (11) Summary;, (12) Plan; and (13)
Agencies Interested. Each of the headings is 'further broken down
into sub-headings. The form represents a frarpework into which
information can be inserted to give the sentencing judge a composite
picture of the defendant. Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, The Presentence Investigation Report, Pub. No. 101 .(1943).

WILLIAMS v. NEW YORK.
241

Opinion of the Court.

practice of seeking information from out-of-court sources
to guide their judgment toward a more enlightened and
just sentence. New York criminal statutes set wide limits for maximum and minimum sentences."' Under New
York statutes a state judge cannot escape his grave responsibility of fixing sentence.*. fn determining whether a
defendant shall receive a one-year minimum or a twentyyear maximum sentence, we do not think the Federal
Constitution restricts the view of the sentencing judge to
the information received in open court. The due process
clause should not be treated as a device for freezing the
evidential procedure of sentencing in the mold of trial
procedure. So to treat the due process clause would
hinder if not preclude all courts-state and federal-from
making progressive efforts to improve the administration
of criminal justice.
It is urged, however, that we should draw a constitutional distinction as to the procedure for obtaining
information where the death sentence is imposed. We
cannot accept the contention. Leaving a sentencing
judge free to avail himself of out-of-court information
in making such a fateful choice of sentences does secure
to him a broad discretionary power, one susceptible of
abuse. But in considering whether a rigid constitutional
barrier should be created, it must be remembered that
there is possibility of abuse wherever a judge must choose
between life imprisonment and death. And it is conA few New York criminal statutes will illustrate the broad
statutory limits within which the sentencing judge must fix a defendant's penalty. Robbery in the first degree is punishable by imprisonment for not "less than ten years" nor "more than thirty years."
New York Penal Law § 2125, Rape in the first degree is "punishable
by imprisonment fot not more than twenty years." New York
Penal Law § 2010, Burglary in the first degree is punishable by
imprisonment from ten to thirty years, burgi.ry in the second degree
"for a term not exceeding fifteen years." New York Penal Law
§ 407..
16

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

ceded that no federal constitutional objection would have
been possible if the judge here had sentenced appellant
to death because appellant's trial manner impressed the
judge that appellant was a bad risk for society, or if the
judge had sentenced him to death giving no reason at
all. We cannot say that the due process clause renders
a sentence void merely because a judge gets additional
out-of-court information to assist him in the exercise of
this awesome power of imposing' the death sentence.
Appellant was found guilty after a fairly conducted
trial. His sentence followed a hearing conducted by the
judge. Upon the judge's inquiry as to why sentence
should not bl imposed, the defendant made statements.
His counsel made extended arguments. The case went
to the highest court in the state, and that court had
power to reverse for abuse of discretion or legal error
in the imposition of the sentence. 7 That court affirmed.
We hold that appellant was not denied due process of
law."s
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

dissents.

dissenting.
A combination of factors in this case impels me to
dissent.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

Petitioner was convicted of murder by a jury, and sentenced to death by the judge. The jury which heard the
17People v. Stein, 96 Misc. 507, 161 N. Y. S. 1107; People v. Fox,
202 N. Y. 616, 96 N. E. 1126; People v. Johnson, 252 N. Y. 387, 393,
169 N. E. 619, 621. And see Commonwealth v. Johnson, 348 Pa.
349, 35 A. 2d 312. As to English procedure see 28 Cr. App. R. 89,
90-91. Also see Note, Right of Criminal Offenders to Challenge
Reports Used in Determining Sentence, 49 Col. L. Rev. 567 (1949).
18 What we have said is not to be accepted as a holding that the
sentencing procedure is immune from scrutiny under the due process
clause. See Townsend v. Burke, 334 U. S. 736.

WILLIAMS v. NEW YORK.
241

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

trial unanimously recommended life imprisonment as a
suitable punishment for the defendant. They had observed him throughout the trial, had heard all the evidence
adduced against him, and in spite of the shocking character of the crime of which they found him guilty, were
unwilling to decree that his life should be taken. In our
criminal courts the jury sits as the representative of the
community; its voice is that of the society against which
the crime was committed. A judge, even though vested
with statutory authority to do so, should hesitate indeed
to increase the severity of such a community expression.
He should be willing to increase it, moreover, only with
the most scrupulous regard for the rights of the defendant.
The record before us indicates that the judge exercised his
discretion to deprive a man of his life, in reliance on material made available to him in a probation report, consisting almost entirely of evidence that would have been
inadmissible at the trial. Some, such as allegations of
prior crimes, was irrelevant. Much was incompetent as
hearsay. All was damaging, and none was subject to
scrutiny by the defendant.
Due process of law includes at least the idea that a person accused of crime shall be accorded a fair hearing
through all the stages of the proceedings against him. I
agree with the Court -s to the value and humaneness of
liberal use of probation reports as developed by modern
penologists, but, in a capital case, against
the unanimous
recommendation of a jury, where the report would concededly not have been admissible at the trial,, and was
not subject to examination by thedefendant, I am forced
to conclude that the high commands of due process were
not obeyed.

