S530

5 OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

337 U. S.

RAGAN v. MERCHANTS TRANSFER & WAREHOUSE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 522.

Argued April 20, 1949.-Decided June 20, 1949.

Sdlely on grounds of diversity of citizenship, petitioner sued in the
Federal District Court for Kansas to recover damages for injuries
sustained in a highway accident which occurred less than two
years before his complaint was filed; but the summons was not
served until more than two years after the date of the accident.
The complaint was filed and the summons issued in accordance
with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure; but Kansas has a
two-year statute of limitations applicable to such tort claims which
the Court of Appeals held is not tolled until service of a summons.
Held: The suit was barred by the state statute of limitations.
Pp. 531-534.
(a) This result necessarily follows from Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins,
304 U. S. 64, since otherwise the plaintiff's rights under local law
would be different in the federal courts from what they would be
in the state courts. Pp. 532-533.
(b) A different result is not required by the fact that the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure govern the manner in which an action
is commenced in a federal court. Pp. 532-533.
(c) Nor is a different result required by the fact that local law
brought the. cause of action to an end after, rather than before,
suit was started in the federal court. Pp. 533-534.
(d) In accordance with its usual practice of accepting the determination of local law by the Court of Appeals, this Court accepts
the holding of the Court of Appeals that a Kansas statute providing
that, an action is commenced when summons is served on the
defendant is an integral part of the Kansas statute of limitations.
P. 534.
170 F. 2d 987, affirmed.

Having jurisdiction solely on grounds of diversity of
citizenship, a Federal District Court granted petitioner a
judgment for damages sustained in a highway accident.
The Court of Appeals reversed. 170 F. 2d 987. This

Court granted certiorari. 336 U. S.917. Affirmed, p. 534.

RAGAN v. MERCHANTS TRANSFER CO.
530

531

Opinion of the Court.

CorneliusRoach argued the cause for petitioner.
him on the brief was Daniel L. Brenner.

With

Douglas Hudson argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
Opinion of the Court by MR.
nounced by MR. JUSTICE REED.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

an-

This case, involving a highway accident which occurred
on October 1, 1943, came to the District Court for Kansas
by reason of diversity of citizenship. Petitioner instituted it there on September 4, 1945, by filing the complaint with the court-the procedure specified by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.1 As prescribed by those
Rules, a summons was issued.2 Service was had on December 28, 1945. Kansas has a two-year statute of
limitations applicable to such tort claims.' Respondent
pleaded it and moved for summary judgment. Petitioner
claimed that the filing of the complaint tolled the statute.
Respondent argued that by reason of a Kansas statute'
the statute of limitations was not tolled until service of
the summons.
'Rule 3 provides, "A civil action is commenced by filing a complaint with the court."
2 Rule 4 (a) provides:
"Upon the filing of the complaint the clerk shall forthwith issue
a summons and deliver it 'or service to the marshal or to a person
specially appointed to serve it. Upon request of the plaintiff separate or additional summons shall issue against any defendants."
An earlier summons issued on September 7, 1945, ana '_. Onfter
served had been quashed.
3
Kan. Gen. Stats. 1935, ยง 60-306.
4 Id., ยง 60-308 provides,
"An action. shall be deemed commenced within the- meaning of
this article, as to each defendant, at the date of the summons which
is served on him, or on a codefendant who is a joint contractor, or
otherwise united in interest with him. Where service by publication

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

The District Court struck the defense and denied respondent's motion. A trial was had and a verdict rendered for petitioner. The Court of Appeals reversed.
170 F. 2d 987. It ruled, after a review of Kansas authorities, that the requirement of service of summons within
the statutory period was an integral part of that state's
statute of limitations. It accordingly held that Guaranty
Trust Co. v. York, 326 U. S. 99, governed and that respondent's motion for summary judgment should hdve
been sustained. The case is here on a petition for certiorari which we granted because of the importance of the
question presented. 336 U. S. 917.
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64; was premised on
the theory that in diversity cases the rights enjoyed under
local law should not vary because enforcement of those
rights was sought in the federal court rather than in the
state court. If recovery could ndt be had in the state
court, it should be denied in the federal court. Otherwise, those authorized to invoke the diversity jurisdiction
would gain advantages over those confined to state courts.
Guaranty Trust Co. v. York applied that principle to
statutes of limitations on the theory that, where one is
barred from recovery in the state court, he should likewise be barred in the federal court.
It is conceded that if the present case were in a Kansas
court it would be barred. The theory of Guaranty Trust
Co. v. York would therefore seem to bar it in the federal
court, as the Court of Appeals held. The force of that
reasoning is sought to be avoided by the argument that
is "proper, the action shall be deemed commenced at the date of
the first publication. An attempt to commence an action shall be
deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof within the meaning
of this article when the party faithfully, properly and diligently
endeavors to procure a service; but such attempt must be followed
by the first publication or service of the summons within :ixty days."

RAGAN v. MERCHANTS TRANSFER CO.
530

533

Opinion of the Court.

the Federal Rules of. Civil Procedure determine the manner in which an action is commenced in the federal
courts--a matter of procedure whibh the principle of Erie
-R. Co. v. Tompkins does not control. It is accordingly
argued that since the suit was properly commenced in the
federal court before the Kansas statute of limitations ran,
it tolled the statute.
That was the reasoning and result in Bomar v. Keyes,
162 F. 2d 136, 141. But that~case was a.suit to enforce
rights under a federal statute.' Here, as in that case,
there can be no doubt that the suit was properly commenced . in the federal court. But in the present -case
we look to local law to find the cause of action on which
suit is brought. Since that cause of action is created
by local law, the measure of it is to be found only in
local law.; It carries the same .burden and is subject to
the- same defenses in the federal court as in the state
court. See Cities Service Co. v. Dunlap, 308 U. S.208;
Palmer v. Hoffman, 318 U. S. i09, 117. It accrues and
comes to an end when local law so declares. West v.
American Tel. & T. Co., 311 U. S.223; Guaranty Trust
Co. v. York, supra. Where local law qualifies or abridges
it,. the federal court must follow suit. Otherwise there
is a different measure of the cause of action in one court
than in the other, and the principle of Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins is transgressed.
We can draw no distinction in this case because local
law brought the cause of action to an end after, rather
than before, suit was started in the federal court.. In
both cases local law created the right which the federal
court 'Was asked to enforce. In both cases local law undertook to determine the life of the cause of action. We
cannot give -itlonger life in the federal court than it
Civil Rights Act, 8 U. S. C. ยง 43.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Dissent.

337 U. S.

would have had in the state court without adding something to the cause of action. We may not do that consistently with Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins.
It is argued that the Kansas statute in question I is
not an integral part of the Kansas statute of limitations.
But the Court of Appeals on a careful canvass of Kansas
law in an opinion written by Judge Huxman, a distinguished member of the Kansas bar, has held to the conirary. We ordinarily accept the determination of local
law by the Court of Appeals (see Huddleston v. Dwyer,
322 U. S. 232, 237), and we will not disturb it here.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE dissents.

See- his dissenting

opinion in Nos. 442 and 512, Cohen v. Beneficial Industrial
Loan Corp., post, p. 557.

0

Note 4, supra.

