OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

337 U. S.

NATIONAL LABOR-RELATIONS BOARD v. PITTSBURGH STEAMSHIP CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 258.

Argued April 19, 1949.-Decided June 20, 1949.

1. In a proceeding under the Wagner Act, 49 Stat. 449, the National
Labor Relations Board adopted a trial' examiner's findings without
substantial change, and issued a cease-and-desist order against an
employer. The Court of Appeals, without passing upon the sufficiency of the evidence, held that the findings and the order were
invalidated by the trial examiner's bias as disclosed by his crediting
Board witnesses and discrediting witnesses for the employer, and
refused enforcement of the order. Held: The decision of the
Court of Appeals refusing enforcement of the order, on the ground
of the trial examiner's bias, was not supported by the record.
Pp. 657-660.
2. The Administrative Procedure Act and the Taft-Hartley Act were
enacted after the Board's order and before the Court of Appeals'
decision. Questions as to the applicability and possible effect of
either or both of those Acts were apparently not dealt with by
the Court of Appeals and were not briefed with any elaboration
before this Court. Held: Although the evidence in the case was
sufficient under the Wagner Act to sustain the Board's findings
and order, the cause is remanded to the Court of Appeals for consider-tion of the applicability and possible effect of the Administrative Procedure Act and the Taft-Hartley Act, which questions
should be considered in the first instance by that Court. Pp.
661-662.
167 F. 2d 126, reversed.

A cease-and-desist orum. issued by the National Labor
Relations Board under the Wagner Act, 69 N. L. R. B.
1395, was refused enforpement by the Court of Appeals.
167 F. 2d 126. This Court granted certiorari. 335 U. S.
857. Reversed and remanded, p. 662.

LABOR BOARD v. PITTSBURGH S. S. CO. . 657
656

Opinion of the Court.

Robert L. Stern argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman, Robert
N. Denham, David P. Findling and Ruth Weyand.
Nathan L. Miller argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Lee C. Hinslea,Lucian Y. Ray
and Roger M. Blough.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In 1945 the National Labor Relations Board, petitioner
here, issued its complaint charging respondent with the
commission of certain unfair labor practices in the course
of operating its fleet of Great Lakes bulk cargo vessels.
As developed at a hearing before a trial examiner, the
Board's charges were in substance that in 1944 respondent interfered with attempts by the National Maritime
Union to organize respondent's seamen, with the purpose
and the ultimately achieved effect of causing the union's
repudiation at a Board-sponsored election.' Specifically,
there was testimony tending to show that licensed personnel (officers) on certain of respondent's ships by
word and deed had expressed to their unlicensed seamen
bitter hostility to the union and its members; that respondent's president, one Ferbert, had written two letters
to every seaman covertly suggesting in inaccurate fashion
the possible disadvantages of NMU representation; and
that one Shartle was discharged from respondent's employ for engaging in union orgaiiization. Some of thb
Board's testimony, tendered by union witnesses, was controverted by'respondent's witnesses; and respondent also
introduced testimony tending to show.that it had strictly
enjoined its licensed personiel to remain wholly neutral
1 The

question voted on was acceptance of the NMU as collective-

bargaining agent: the NMU was rejected by a vote of 889 to 720.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
IOpinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

in the weeks leading up to and including the Board
election.
The trial examiner concluded that respondent had interfered with NMU organization, in violation of §§ 7
and 8 (1) of the Wagner Act, 29 U. S. C. §§ 157, 158 (1),
and had fired an employee for union activity, in violation
of § 8 (3), 29 U. S. C. § 158 (3). Respondent's exceptions to the trial examiner's findings were briefed and
argued before the Board, in accordance with its usual
procedure. On August 13, 1946, the Board adopted the
trial examiner's findings without substantial change, and
issued its order requiring respondent to cease and desist
from its antiunion conduct and to reinstate the wrongfully discharged Shartlewith full seniority and reimbursement for lost wages. 69 N. L. R. B. 1395.
Two months later respondent petitioned the Court of
Appeals to review the Board's order; the Board filed
a counterpetition for enforcement of the order. On April
5, 1948, the court announced its decision refusing enforcement. 167 F. 2d 126. The court did not determine
whether the evidence, if credited, would support the
.findings. Instead it held the findings and the order
based thereon invalidated by the latent, pervasive and
unremedied bias of the trial examiner-a bias found
apparent on the face of the record: "Without exception,
whenever there was a conflict of evidence, the witnesses
for the [Company] were held to be untrustworthy and
those for .the union reliable. . . . It is enough to say
that the unvarying repudiation of every witness for the
•petitioner because of falsity, evasion or faint recollection,
along with the consistent exaltation of every union witness as truthful, forthright and accurate, destroys completely any confidence that might otherwise be placed
in the findings of the trial examiner and stamp[s] them
as arbitrary. The Labor Board having adopted them in
toto, its blanket. pro forma findings are in no 'better

LABOR BOARD v. PITTSBURGH S. S. CO.
656

659

Opinion of the Court.

posture ....
With due respect for the rule that tne
findings of the Board are binding upon us if based upon
evidence, it becomes impossible to sustain an order upon
the adoption of a trial examiner's report which, upon
its face, so clearly bears the imprint of bias and prejudice
that it lacks all semblance of fair judicial determination."
167 F. 2d at 128-129. To review the court's determination, we granted certiorari. 335 U. S. 857.
First: We are constrained to reject the court's conclusion that an objective finder of fact could not resolve
all factual conflicts arising in a legal proceeding .in
favor
of one litigant. The ordinary lawsuit, civil or criminal,
normally depends for its resolution on which version of
the facts in dispute is accepted by the trier of fact. Where
the number of facts in dispute increases, the arithmetical
chance of their uniform resolution diminishes-but it does
not disappear. Yet it is not mere arithmetical chance
which controls our present inquiry, for the facts disputed in litigation are not random unknowns in isolated
equations-they are facets of related human behavior,
and the chiseling of one facet helps to mark the borders
of the next. Thus, in the determination of litigated
facts, the iestimony of one who has been found unreliable
as to one issue may properly be accorded little weight
as to the next. Accordingly, total rejection of an opposed
view cannot of itself impugn the integrity or competence
of a trier of fact. The gist of the matter has been put
well by the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, speaking through Judge Hutcheson, in granting enforcement
of an NLRB order:
"The fact alone . . .of which Respondent makes

so much, that Examiner and Board uniformly credited the Board's witnesses and as uniformly discredited those of the Respondent, though the Board's
witnesses were few -and the. Respondent's witnesses
were many, would not furnish a basis for a finding

660

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

by us that Such a bias or partiality existed and
therefore the hearings were unfair. Unless the credited evidence . . .carries its own death wound, that
is, is incredible and therefore, cannot in law be
credited, and the discredited evidence . . . carries
its own irrefutable truth, that is, is of such nature
that it cannot in law be discredited, we cannot determine that to credit the one and discredit the
other is an evidence of bias." 2
Suffice it to 'say in this case that our attention has
been called to no credited testimony which "carries its
own death wound," and to none discredited which "carries
its own irrefutable truth." Indeed, careful scrutiny of
the record belies the view that the trial examiner did
in fact believe all union testimony' or that he even
believed the union version of every disputed factual
issue.4 Rather, the printed transcript suggests thoughtful and discriminating evaluation of the facts.
2 Labor Board v. Robbins Tire & Rubber Co., 161 F. 2d 798,
800; see Labor Board v. Auburn Foundry, 119 F. 2d 331, 333.
3 Thus, for example, the trial examiner had the following
to say
by way of footnote to his intermediate report: "No attempt will
be made to describe all statements and activities claimed by coinsel
for the Board to constitute part of the respondent's course of antiunion conduct. Thus, no mention is made of those incidents which
the undersigned regards as insubstantial in character or as unsupported by a fair preponderance of credible evidence." 69 N. L.
R. B. at 1402, n. 6.
4 Important issues of fact arose, for, example, over whether respondent had been responsible for distributing to the unlicensed seamen
(1) copies of a speech hostile to the NMU delivered by a Member
of Congress, (2) copies of a union pamphlet entitled "NMU Fights
Jim Crow," which the union wished to withhold from circulation
for fear the unlicensed seamen would react unfavorably to a union
advocating racial equality. As to these issues the trial examiner
had the following to say: "The respondent admitted responsibility
for the issuance of the Ferbert letters [see text,'supra], but denied
that it distributed copies of the speech and pamphlet, both of which,

LABOR BOARD v. PITTSBURGH S. S. CO.
656

661

Opinion of the Court.

Second: A question remains as to the proper disposition of this case. It is urged upon us by the Board
that, there being substantial evidence in the record to
support the Board's findings and order, we should remand
the case with instructions to enforce the Board's order
without further delay. Without doubting the existence
here of evidence substantial enough under the Wagner
Act, Consolidated Edison Co. v. Labor Board, 305 U. S.
197, 229,' to warrant the Board's findings, we are not
certain whether that standard controls this case. For
questions have arisen whether the Administrative Procedure Act, 60 Stat. 237, 5 U. S. C. § 1001 et seq., and
the Taft-Hartley Act; 61 Stat. 136, 29 U. S. C. (1946 ed.,
Supp. I), § 141 et seq., enacted between issuance of the
Board's order and the Court of Appeals' decision, are
applicable to and, if applicable, in any way affect Board
procedures and the scope of judicial review of Board
orders. The applicability andpossible effect of either or
both of these statutes apparently were not dealt with by
the Court of Appeals, which neither discussed the statutes
nor cited cases discussing them; the statutes and their
the record establishes, came through the mails. There is no substantial evidence in the record showing -that the respondent was
responsible for the distribution of the speech. The Jim Crow pamphlet, which set forth the Union's opposition to racial discrimination
in employment, was admittedly a publication of the Union. While
there is evidence that the Union and its organizers did not issue, or
use that pamphlet as part of its campaign to organize the respondent's vessels, and some support for the assertion that the respondent
was responsible for its distribution is to be found in the evidence ...
showing the manner in which the respondent's supervisory personnel
used the pamphlet and its subject matter in playing upon the racial
prejudices, antagonisms and fears of the employees, the record ii
likewise bare of substantial evidence tracing responsibility for- its
distribution to the respondent. Consequently, and in view of the
respondent's disclaimer of responsibility, it is found that the respondent did not cause the distribution of the pamphlet or the speech."
.69 N.1. R. B. at 1400.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

337 U. S.

impact have not been briefed with any elaboration before
this Court. These questions should be considered in the
first instance by the Court of Appeals. Accordingly, in
order to afford such an opportunity, we remand the cause
to the Court of Appeals for proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR.JUSTICE JACKSON reserves opinion as to the suffi-

ciency of the evidence under the Wagner Act in view of
the Court's determination to return the case to the Court
of Appeals.
INTERSTATE OIL PIPE LINE CO. v. STONE,
CHAIRMAN STATE TAX COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF M.ISSISSIPPI.

No. 287.

Argued January 13, 1949.-Decided June 20, 1949.

Appellant owns and operates pipe lines used to transport oil from
lease tanks to railroad loading racks in Mississippi. Delivery of

the oil to appellant by the owner is accompanied by instructions
for shipping it interstate. The oil is pumped from the loading
racks into railroad tank cars; and, if no tank cars are available,
it is stored, but never longer than a week. In the bills of lading,
which covered only the rail shipment, the owner is designated as
shipper and appellant as his agent, and the out-of-State destination
is indicated. Mississippi levied against appellant a tax measured
by appellant's receipts from the transportation of the oil from
the lease tanks to the loading racks. Held: The tax did not violate
the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 663-665,
668.
203 Miss. 715, 35 So. 2d 73, affirmed.

A state tax levied against a pipe-line company was
sustained by the State Supreme. Court against a claim
of invalidity under the Federal Constitution. 203 Miss.
715, 35 So. 2d 73. On appeal to this Court, affirmed,
p. 668.

