426

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

337 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE

COMMISSION

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 330. Argued March 2,1 949.-Decided June 20, 1949.
The United States, as a shipper, having undertaken to provide
wharfage and handling services at certain. piers, requested the
railroads to make an allowance for expenses thus incurred, since
the shipside rates allegedly included charges for wharfage and
handling services. The railroads refused to make an allowance
and'to perform the services. The United States thereupon filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission a complaint alleging
that, in refusing to make an allowance for wharfage and handling
services, the railroads had exacted payment of rates which were
unreasonable, unjustly discriminatory, and otherwise- in violation
of the Interstate Commerce Act, and asking that the Commission
find the charges unlawful and award the Government reparations.
The Commission denied reparations and ordered the complaint
dismissed. The United States then sued in the ] rict Court to
set aside the Commission order. The Interstate qcmmerce Commission and the United States itself were made defeidants. The
District Court, composed of three judges, dismissed the suit. On
direct appeal to this Court, held: The dismissal of the suit was
error and the case should have been considered on its merits.
Pp. 428-430.
1. Although the case be that of United States v. United States
-et al., the principle that a person may not maintain an action
against himself is inapplicable, since there are involved here controversies of a type which are traditionally justiciable. Pp. 430-431.
2. Provisions of law making the United States a statutory defendant in court actions challenging Commission orders do not
evidence a congressional purpose to bar the Government from
challenging such orders. Pp. 431-432.
(a) Congress did not intend to make it impossible for the
Government to press a just claim which could be vindicated 'only
by challenging a Commission order in Court. P. 431.
(b) However anomalous it may be for the Attorney General
to appear on both sides of the same controversy, nothing in the

UNITED•STATES v. I. C. C.
426

Counsel* for Parties.

Interstate Commerce Act indicates a congressional purpose to.
amend prior statutes which imposed primary responsibility on the.
* Attorney General to seek judicial redress for the Government.
Pp. 431-432.
(c) The Interstate Commerce Act contains adequate provi* sions for protection of Commission orders by the Commission and
by the railroads when, as here, they are the real parties in interest;
and the Commission and .the railroads in this case have availed
themselves of the statutory authorization. P. 432.
3. The District .Court had jurisdiction of the action under 28
U. S. C. § 41 (28) [now § 1336], and that jurisdiction was not
barred in this case by § 9 of the Interstate Commerce Act, 49
U. S. C. § 9. Pp. 432-440.
(a) Section 9 does not give complete finality to a Commission
order merely 'because. a -shipper elected to file a complaint with
the Commission. Pp. 433-440.
(b) A Commission order dismissing a shipper's claim for damages under 49 U..S. C. § 9 is an "order" subject to challenge. under
28 U. S. C. § 41 (28) [now § 1336]. Pp. 440-441.
4. Judicial review of a Commission order denying reparations
does not require a three-judge court. Pp. 441-443.
5. The fact that this case was heard and determined by 'a Dis'trict Court of three judges, rather than by one judge, does not
require dismissal here; and the cause'is remanded to the District
Court for determination on the merits of the allegations of the
complaint. Pp. 443-444.
78 F. Supp. 580, reversed.

A District. Court of three judges dismissed a suit
brought by the United States to set aside an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission (269 I. C. C. 141)
denying an award of reparations to the Government as
a shipper. 78 F. Supp. 580. The United States took a
direct- appeal to this Court. Reversed and remanded,
p. 444.
Stanley M. Silverberg and David 0. Mathews argued
the cause for 'the United States. With them on the brief
were Solicitor General Perlman, Assistant Attorney General Bergson and Philip Elman.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U.S.

Daniel W. Knowlton argued the cause and filed a brief
for the Interstate Commerce Commission, appellee.
Windsor F. Cousins argued the cause for the Pennsylvania Railroad Co. et al., appellees. With him on the
brief were Hugh B. Cox, Robert C. Barnard, Charles P.
Reynolds and Charles Clark.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
It is contended here that the United States as a shipper
is barred from challenging in federal courts an Interstate
Commerce Commission order which denies the Government a recovery in damages for exaction of an allegedly
unlawful railroad rate. Other contentions if sustained
would deny federal courts all power to entertain an action
by any shipper challenging a Commission order denying
damages to the shipper.
During the war, existing tariffs of many railroads
embodied wharfage, charges to compensate the railroads
for moving goods from railroad cars to piers and from
piers to railroad cars. When the United States took over
certain piers at Norfolk, Virginia, it began to perform
these wharfage services for itself and requested the
railroads to make the United States an allowance for
the expenses incurred in performing the services. The
railroads refused to make an allowance. Upon this refusal the Government requested the railroads to perform
the services themselves. The railroads refused to perform the services.
The United States filed with the Interstate Commerce
Commission a complaint against the railroads charging
that exaction of pay for unperformed services was unjust,
unreasonable, discriminatory, excessive, and in violation
of certain sections of the Interstate Commerce Act.1 The
49 U. S. C. §§ 1 (5) (a), 1 (6), 2, 6 (8), 15(13).

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C
426

Opinion of the Court.

complaint asked the Commission to find the enarges
unlawful. Further relief asked, under the Interstate
Commerce Act,' was that the Government be awarded
damages (reparations) on account of the alleged unlawful
exactions. The Commission found that the charges were
not unjustly discriminatory, unreasonable, or otherwise
in violation of the Act. Accordingly, the Commission
denied reparations and ordered the complaint dismissed.
United States v. Aberdeen & Rockfish R. Co., 269 I. C. C.
141 (1947).
The United States brought this action in a United
States District Court to set aside the Commission order.
The complaint charged that the Commission's conclusions
were not supported by its findings; that the findings were
not supported by any substantial evidence, that the order
was based on a misapplication of law and was "otherwise
arbitrary, capricious and without support in and pontrary to law and the evidence." The Interstate Commerce Commission was made a defendant. The United
States was also made a defendant because of a statutory
requirement that any action to set aside an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission "shall be brought
against the United States." 28 U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 46,
now § 2322. Railroads that collected the wharfage,:
charges intervened as defendants under authority of 28.
U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 45a,,now § 2323. The AttorneyGeneral appeared for the Government as both plaintiff
and defendant. Without reaching the merits of the case,
the District Court composed of three judges dismissed
the cause on the theory that the Government could not
maintain a suit against itself. The court also indicated
its belief that a three-judge court was without jurisdiction
2 49

U. S.'C. §§ 8, 9.

The complaint also sought relief from future

exactions, but prior to the Commission's final order the piers were

returned to private ownership and this prayer was abandoned.

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337.U. S.

of the suit. 78 F. Supp. 580. The case is here on direct
appeal under 28 U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 47a, now § 1253.
In this Court the Commission and the railroad intervenor defendants support the District Court's dismissal
for the reasons given by that court. Alternative reasons
are also urged. We hold that the dismissal was error and
that the case should have been considered on its merits.
First. There is much argument with citation of many
cases to establish the long-recognized general principle
that no person may sue himself. Properly understood
the general principle is sound, for courts only adjudicate
justiciable controversies. They do not engage in the
academic pastime of rendering judgments in favor of
persons against themselves. Thus a suit filed by John
Smith against John Smith might present no case or controversy which courts could determine. But one person
named John Smith might have a justiciable controversy
with another John Smith. This illustrates that 'courts
must look behind names that symbolize the parties to
determine whether a justiciable case or controversy is
presented.
While this case is United States v. United States,
et al., it involves controversies of al type which are traditionally justiciable. The basic question is whether railroads have illegally exacted sums of money from the
United States. Unless 'barred by statute, the Government is not less entitled than any other shipper to invoke
administrative and judicial protection. To collect the
alleged illegal. exactions from the railroads the United
States institute- prodeedings before the Interstate Commerce Commission, . In pursuit of the same objective
the Government -challenged the legality of the Commission's action. This suit therefore is a step in proceedings to settle who is legally entitled to sums of
money; tKe Government or the railroads. -The order if
valid 'wotld defeat 'the Government's claim to that

UNITED STATES v. I. C. 'C.
426

Opinion of the Court.

money. But the Government charged that the order
was issued arbitrarily and without substantial evidence.
This charge alone would be enough to present a justiciable controversy. Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258,
262-266. Consequently, the established principle that
a person cannot crea'te a justiciable controversy against
himself has no application here.
Second. It is contended that the provisions of the Act
making the Government a statutory defendant in court
actions challenging Commission orders, show a congressional purpose to bar the Government from challenging
such orders. Legislative history is cited in support of
this contention. If the contention be accepted, Congress
by making the Government a statutory defendant in such
cases has deprived the United States as a shipper of powers of self-protection accorded all other shippers. We
cannot agree that Congress intended to make it impossible for the Government to press a just claim which could
be vindicated only by a court challenge of a Commission
order.
ee United States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125

U. S. 273, 279.
In support of their contention that Congress did not
intend for the Government to press its claims as a shipper,
the Commission and railroads emphasize the an6maly of
having the Attorney General appear on both sides of the
same controversy. However anomalous, this situation
results from the statutes defining the Attorney General's
duties. The Interstate Commerce Act requires the Attora statutory.
ney General to appear for the Government as
defendant in cases •challenging Commission orders. 28
U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 45a, now § 2323. The Attorney
General is also, under a statutory duty "to determine
when the United States shall sue, to decide for what
it shall sue, and to be responsible that such suits shall
be brought in appropriate cases." United States v. San
Jacinto h'in Co., 125 U. S. 273, 279. See also Uhited

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U.S.

States v. California, 332 U. S. 19, 26-29. Nothing in
the Interstate Commerce Act indicates a congressional
purpose to amend prior statutes which had imposed primary responsibility on the Attorney General to seek
judicial. redress for the Government.
Although the formal appearance of the Attorney General for the Government as statutory defendant does
create a surface anomaly, his representation of the Government as a shipper does not in any way prevent a full
defense of the Commission's order. The Interstate Commerce Act contains adequate provisions for protection of
Commission orders by the Commission and by the railroads when, as here, they are the real parties in interest.
For, whether the Attorney General defends or not, the
Commission and the railroads are authorized to interpose
all defenses to the Government's charges and claims that
can be interposed to charges and claims of other shippers.
In this case the Commission and the railroads have
availed themselves of this statutory authorization. They
have vigorously defended the legality of the allowances
and the validity of the Commission order at every stage
:f the litigation.
Third. 28 U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 41 (28)' provides that
"The district courts shall have original jurisdiqtion
Of cases brought to enjoin, set aside, annul, or suspend
in whole or in part any order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission." The legal consequences of this order if
upheld will finally relieve the railroad of any obligations
to the Government on account of the alleged unlawful
3The substance of 28 U. S. C. § 41,(28) of the 1946 United States
-Code now appears as § 1336 of the 1948 Code. The provision for
judicial review of Interstate Commerce Commission orders first appeared in 1910 in an Act creating the Commerce Court. 36 Stat.

539. Congress abolished the Commerce Court in 1913 and transferred to district courts-the Commerce Court's jurisdiction -to review
Commission orders. Urgent Deficiencies Act, 38 Stat. 208, 219220.

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

Opinion of the Court.

charges; the order thus falls squarely within the type
made subject to judicial review by § 41 (28). Rochester
Telephone Corp. v. United States, 307 U. S. 125, 131-132,
142-143; El Dorado Oil Works v. United States, 328
U. S. 12, 18-19.
The Commission and the 'railroads' contend, however,
that § 9 of the Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 9,
bars the United States or any other shipper from judicial
review of an order denying damages in reparation proceedings initiated before the Commission. Section 9 provides in part:
-"Any person or persons claiming to be damaged
by any common carrier . . .may either make complaint to the commission . . .or may bring suit . . .
for the recovery of the damages . . .in any district
court of the United States of competent jurisdiction;
but such person or persons shall not have the right
to pursue both of said remedies, and must in each
case elect which one of the two methods of procedure
herein provided for he or they will adopt."
The contention of the Commission and the railroads
as to § 9 is this. A shipper has an alternative. He may
bring his action before the Commission or before the
courts. But he must make an election. If he elects
to "bring suit" in a court and is unsuccessful, he retains
the customary right of appellate review. If he elects
to "make complaint to" the Commission, as the Government did, and relief is denied, he is said to be barred
by the statutory language of § 9 from seeking any judicial review of the Commission order. Under the contention the order is final and not reviewable by any court
even though entered arbitrarily, without substantial supporting evidence, and in defiance of law.
Such a sweeping contention for administrative finality
is out of harmony with the general legislative pattern of

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

administrative and judicial. relationships.' See, e. g.,
Shields v. Utah I. C. R. Co.,, 305 U. S. 177, 181-185;
Stark v. Wickard, 321 U. S.288, 307-310. And this Court
has consistently held Commission orders reviewable upon
charges that the Commission had exceeded its lawful
powers. See,, e. g., Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Louisville & N. R. Co., 227 U. S.88, 91-93; Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 266. The language of §9
does not suggest an abandoniment of these consistent holdings. It does suggest that a shipper who elects either
to "make complaint to" the Commission or to "bring
suit" in a court is thereafter precluded from initiating a
§ 9 proceeding in the other. It may therefore be assumed that after a shipper has elected to initiate a Commission proceeding for damages he could not later initiate
an original district court action for the same damages.
But forfeiture of the right to initiate his claim in the
court under § 9 is one thing; forfeiture of his right under
28 U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 41 (28), now § 1336, to obtain
judicial review of an unlawful Commission order is another. Section 9's language controls the forum in which
reparation claims may be begun-and tried to judgment or
order; it does not purport to-give complete finality to a
court judgment or to a Commission order merely because
The Administrative Procedure Act, 60 Stat. 237, 243, 5 U. S. C.

§§ 1001 (d), 1009, provides:
"SEC. 2... *. (d) ORDER AND ADJUDICATION.-'Order' means the
whole or any part of the final disposition (whether affirmative, negative, injunctive, or declaratory in form) of any agency in anymatter
other than rule making but including licensing. 'Adjudication' means
agency process for the formulation of an order."
"SEc. 10. Except so far, as (1) statutes preclude judicial review
or (2) aie ay action is by law committed to agency discretion-7"(a) RIGHT OF REVIEW.-Any person suffering legal wrong'because
of any agency action, or adversely affected or aggrieved by such
action within the meaning of any relevant statute, shall be entitled
to judicial review thereof."

UNITED STATES v. i. C. C.
426

Opinion of the Court.

a shipper elected to proceed in one forum rather than the
other. So we can find nothing in the language of § 9
that bars a court from reviewing a reparation order upon
allegations by a shipper that the order was entered in
defiance of standards established by Congress to determine when reparations are due.
Furthermore, the section's careful provision for judicial
protection of railroads against improper Commission
awards argues against interpretation of the same section
to deny to shippers any judicial review whatever. Under
the suggested interpretation a shipper could recover
nothing if the Commission decided against him. But a
Commission award favorable to a shipper is not final or
binding upon the railroad. Such an award "Only establishes a rebuttable presumption. It cuts off no defense,
interposes no obstacle to a full contestation of all the
issues, and takes no question of .fact from either court or
jury. . . Nor does it in any wise work a denial of due
process of law." Meeker & Co.-v. Lehigh Valley R. Co.,
236 U. S. 412, 430. And see Pennsylvania R. Co. v.
Weber, 257 U. S.85, 90-91. It hardly seems possible to.
find from the' language of § 9 a congressional intent to
guarantee railroads complete judicial review of adverse
reparation orders while denying shippers any judicial
review at all.
What we have said would dispose of the § 9 contention
but for the argument of the Commission and the railroads
that their suggested interpretation of the section is required by this Court's holding in Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 283 U. S. 235, and other cases that
followed it. In that case the Standard Oil "Co., a
shipper, was denied the right to judicial review of, a
Commission order denying reparations. Judicial review
was denied on four grounds: (1) The order in the Standard Oil case denying reparations was "negative" in form,
and was therefore beyond judicial appraisal under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

"negative order" doctrine. This doctrine was wholly
abandoned in Rochester Tel. Corp. v. United States, 307
U. S. 125. (2) The decision in the Standard Oil ,case
held that the Commission order was supported by substantial evidence and was not otherwise in violation of
law. The Government's claim here is that this order
cannot meet that test. (3) The third ground for denial
of judicial review was that having elected to test its
damage claim before the Commission, Standard was precluded from judicial review. (4) A three-judge court,
was an improper tribunal to adjudicate damage claims
under § 9.
The Standard Oil interpretation of § 9 denying shippers any judicial review was made by a court usually
careful to protect against arbitrary or unlawful administrative action. And, as shown, the court there first
satisfied itself that the Commission order was not the
product of an unlawful exercise of power by the Commission. Furthermore, the "negative order" philosophy,
then at its peak, clearly barred review of all orders denying reparations. Consequently, the Standard ,Oil § 9
interpretation barred judicial review of no class of Commission orders except orders already immune from such
review under the "negative order" doctrine. The Standard Oil holding was thus clearly supported by and rooted
in the now rejected "negative order" doctrine.'
Another reason for the Court's construction of § 9 in
the Standard Oil case was that Standard's damage claim
5 Mr. Justice Cardozo so treated the Standard Oil holding in
I. C. C. v. United States, 289 U. S. 385, 388, a case decided prior
to this Court's repudiation of the "negative order" doctrine. He there
said that in denying reparations "the Commission speaks with finality. Its orders purely negative-negative in form and substanceare not subject to review by this court or any other." Authorities
for this statement were "negative order" cases. These same cases
were relied on by the court in a later case that referred with approval
to the Standard Oil § 9 interpretation. Terminal Wdrehouse Co. v.
Pennsylvania R. Co., 297 U. Si 500, 507-508.

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

Opinion of the Court.

could have been adjudicated by a district court' since it
involved no question as to reasonableness of rates that
called for exercise of the Commission's primary jurisdiction. The importance of this factor'was emphasized by
this Court in applying the Standard Oil construction of
§ 9 in Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. Brady, 288 U. S. 448,
457-459. First pointing out that there was no question
in that case "requiring the exercise of the Commission's
administrative powers," the Court said:
"It is to be remembered that, by electing to call on the
Commission for the determination of his damages,
plaintiff waived his right to maintain an action at
law upon his claim. But the carriers made no such
election. Undoubtedly it was to the end that they
be not denied the right of trial by jury that Congress
saved their right to be heard in court upon the
merits of claims asserted against them. The right
of election given to a claimant reasonably may have
been deemed an adequate ground for making the
Commission's award final as to him."
And see Terminal Warehouse Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co.,
297 U. S.'500, 507-508.
Thus, a crucial support for the Court's holding in
the Standard Oil and Brady cases was that the shippers
in those cases could have commenced original §-9 actions
in the district court. But it has been established doctrine since this Court's holding in Texas ,& P. R. Co. v.
Abilene Oil Co., 204 U. S.'426, that a shipper cannot file
a § 9 proceeding in a district court where his claim for
-amages necessarily involves a question of "reasonableness" calling for exercise of the Commission's primary
jurisdiction.' The Government's claim here does involve
such a question of "reasonableness." For the allowances
0

See cases collected in Rochester Tel.. Corp. v. United States, 307

U. S. 125, 139, n. 22, and Armour & Co. v. Alton R. Co., 312"U. S.
195; Skinner & Eddy Corp. v. United States, 249 U. S. 557, 562.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

exacted from the Government were authorized in the
railroads' published tariffs and were therefore not unlawful unless "unreasonable." Consequently the Government here had no "right of election" between Commission and 'court that could be "deemed an adequate
ground for making the Commission's award final

..

"

Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. Brady, supra, at 458.'
Ashland Coal Co. v. United States, •325 U. S. 840, is
the only case in this Court that relied on the Standard
Oil decision after we had abandoned the "negative order"
doctrine. Cf. Allison & Co. v. United States, 296 U. S.
546. And it is doubtful if the shipper in the Ashland
Coal Co. case could have'sought reparations in a district
court under the "primary jurisdiction" dootrine. In affirming without argument the judgment of a three-judge
court in the Ashland Coal Co. case, this Court's per curiam
opinion cited two pages of the Standard Oil opinion that
support the interpretation of § 9 urged here by the Com-.
mission and railroads. It is a fair inference that the
pages were cited for that interpretation although other
grounds for the Court's decision also appear there. One
such ground was that a three-judge court is an improper
7 The Commission argues that § 9 does authorize a shipper to
initiate damage claims in a district court even though the claim
necessarily involves questions upon which the Commission's primary
jurisdiction must be invoked. The railroads more cautiously say
that such suits can be filed upon an initial showing by a shipper
that it might work a hardship on a shipper.for the court to refuse
to entertain the case. Both contentions run counter to this Court's
previous cases. Particular circumstances were held sufficient in
one-case to justify a court in staying further judicial proceedings
to await Commission action. Mitchell Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R.
Co., 230 U. S. 247, 266-267. The same course was. followed in
another case, over the Commission's objection, where the action was
in assumpsit, and the administrative problem did not emerge until
the case was in course of litigation. Tank Car Corp. v. Terminal
Co., 308 U. S. 422, 432.

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

Opinion of the Court.

tribunal for the review of such Commission orders.
Another ground was .that there was "nothing to suggest
that the Commission acted arbitrarily or without evidence
to support -its conclusions, or that it transcended its
constitutional or statutory powers." The three-judge
district court in the Ashland case in sustaining the Commission order had also held that a three-judge court was
not a proper tribunal and that the Commission order was
supported by substantial evidence and was in accordance
with law. Ashland Coal& Ice Co. v. United States, 61
F. Supp. 708, 713.
We cannot accept the Ashland Coal Co. per curiam
holding nor the Standard Oil case on which it rested as
requiring the interpretation of § 9 which the railroads and
Commission here urge. Our acceptance of that interpretation would mean that a shipper who submitted to the
Commission only a question of the reasonableness of rates
could have an adverse order reviewed by a court, Skinner
& Eddy Corp. v. United States, 249 U. S.557, 562-563,
while a shipper who asked for that administrative determination plus reparations could get no judicial review at
all. Terminal Warehouse Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co.,
supra, at 507-508. On any ground except the now discarded "negative order" doctrine, this would appear to be
an unsupportable and totally illogical limitation of the
congressional command for judicial review.' See Chicago
8The "negative order" doctrine was first adopted by this Court

in Procter & Gamble v. United States, 225 U. S. 282, decided in 1912.
A shipper there brought action in the Commerce Court to set aside
a Commission order dismissing the shipper's complaint. The complaint was that the charges were unjust and unreasonable. The
Commerce Court was asked to annul the Commission's order of dismissal, to enjoin future collection of the charges, and to require the
railroads to repay sums alleged to have been wrongfully collected from
the shipper. The Commerce Court reviewed the action of the Commission and on the merits declined to grant the shipper the re-

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 269-270; Southern R. Co.
v. Tif t, 206 U. S. 428, 440. Accordingly we hold that § 9
does not impair the right of shippers to obtain judicial review of adverse Commission orders under § 41 (28) merely
because the order is sought as a basis for reparations.
Fourth. For. reasons already stated we hold that a
Commission order dismissing a shipper's claim for damquested relief. This Court held that this "negative" order was not
reviewable at the instance of the shipper.. The Court's ruling brought
sharp criticism in Congress. Corrective legislation was proposed,
exhaustive committee hearings were held, debate was taken to the
floor of Congress. In spite of the strenuous efforts to get Congress
to repudiate the "negative order" doctrine, Congress in 1913 declined.
to act. But in all of the congressional hearings and debates on the
subject, the critics of the Procter & Gamble "negative order" rule
urged without contradiction that repudiation of the "negative order"
rule would afford shippers the* same judicial review of reparation
and other orders then afforded to railroads. Not once do we find
the argument suggested that 49 U. S. C. § 9 would bar shippers from
judicial review of adverse reparation orders by the Commission,
although this section was at the time part of the original Interstate
Commerce Act, enacted in 1887, more than a quarter of a century
before this congressional consideration.
This Court nevertheless abandoned the "negative order" doctrine in
1938, and in doing so effectively overruled a host of prior decisions.
See cases collected in footnote to Mr. Justice Butler's opinion in the
Rochester case, 307 U. S. 146, 148. The effect of today's decision
is merely to recognize that the Standar,1 Oil doctrine, barring judicial
review to shippers, cannot stand consistently with the Rochester case
which itself overruled the Procter & Gamble and other "negative
order" decisions. It was therefore the Rochester case, not today's
decision, that overruled a line of cdses and granted relief where Congress had declined to afford any. H. R. Rep. No. 1012, 62d Cong., 2d
Sess. 1-4 (1912); Hearings before the subcommittee of the Senate
Committee on Appropriations on H. R. 7898, 63d Cong., 1st Sess.
140-148 (1913); Hearings before the subcommittee of the Senate
Committee on Appropriatiops on H. R. 7898, 63d Cong., 1st Sess.
305-343 (1913); Hearings b~fore the House Committee on Interstate
and Foreign Commerce or H. R. 25596 and H. R. 25572, 62d Cong.,
2d Sess. 1-298 (1912); 4,.Cong. Rec. 4532-4537, 4542-4545 (1913).

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

441

Opinion of the Court.

ages under 49 U. S. C. § 9 is an "order" subject to challenge under 28 U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 4.1 (28). The remaining question is whether a district court entertaining
such a challenge shall be composed of one judge or three
judges and whether the judgment of a district court in
such a case can be appealed directly to this Court.
The Urgent Deficiencies Act from which § 41 (28) was
derived contains provisions for a three-judge district
court to hear and determine suits brought to set aside
a Commission ."order," and authorizes judgments rendered in such cases to be appealed directly to this
Court.' For reasons now stated we hold that judicial
review of an order denying reparations does not require
a three-judge court.
The provisions of the Urgent Deficiencies Act here
considered derive from a 1910 congressional enactment
creating the Commerce Court, defining its powers and
providing for review of its judgments.10 That court was
given jurisdiction of all actions to enjoin, set aside and
modify Commission orders. Section 2 provided for direct appeals from the Commerce Court to the Supreme
Court. The purpose of creating the Commerce Court
with such direct appeals was expedition of final determination of the validity of certain types of Commission
orders. This expedition was sought for orders of national
or widespread interest, such, for example, as railroad
rate orders. Congress saw the necessity for an accelerated
appellate procedure to prevent railroads from nullifying
the effect of such orders in prolonged litigation.1" The
Commerce Act itself indicated that the same expedition
necessary in cases affecting the public generally was not
"38 Stat. 208, 219, 220; 28 U. S. C. §2325 (1948).
U. S.C. (1946 ed.) § 47.
10 36 Stat. 539.

See also 28

"I See President's Message to Congress, 45 Cong. Ree. 7567-7568
(1910).

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

necessary in other kinds of cases involving "local and
isolated questions which arise in the ordinary courts." 12
The Act's first section excluded from the Commerce
Court's jurisdiction power to enforce "any order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission . . . for the payment
of money." 1
Provisions of the Urgent Deficiencies Act of 1913 abolished the Commerce Court and transferred its jurisdiction
to district courts composed of three judges. In considering this Act Congress was urged to bear in mind the
necessity for providing a forum that could expeditiously
review Commission orders of widespread importance. 4
But in passing the 1913 Act Congress denied power to
three-judge courts to enforce Commission orders for the
payment of money. 5 And in a case not involving reparations this Court held that orders relating merely to
the payment of money are not likely to be of sufficient
public importance to'justify use of the three-judge procedure. See United States v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 226, 233,
234-237. But cf. El Dorado Oil Works v. United States,
328 U. S. 12, 18-19; United States v. Jones, 336 U. S. 641,
647. The Urgent Deficiencies Act with 49 U. S. C. § 9,
which requires enforcement of Commission reparation
awards in one-judge courts, indicates the belief of Congress that such orders are not of sufficient public importance to justify the accelerated judicial review procedure.
12 S.
13

Rep. No. 355, 61st Cong., 2d Sess. 1-2 (1910).

See Procter & Gamble v. United States, 225 U. S. 282; Texas

& P. R. Co. v. Abilene Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426.
14 Hearings before the subcommittee of the Senate Committee on
Appropriations on H. R. 7898, 63d Cong., 1st Sess. 293-299, 300
(1913).
15 It is also significant that the new judicial code does not give
a three-judge court jurisdiction to adjudicate the vlidity of commission orders "for the payment of money." 28 U. S. C. § 2321.

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

Opinion of the Court.

While the Government here does not seek enforcement of a Commission order for the payment of money,
the root of the controversy concerns the payment of
money damages under 49 U. S. C. §§ 8, 9. Had the Commission made an award to the Government it could have
filed a civil suit to recover money damages under the
provisions of 49 U. S. C. § 16 (2). That section provides
that such a suit "shall proceed in all respects like other
civil suits for damages ... "-that is, before one district
judge. And an appeal from a judgment in such a case
goes to the Court of Appeals. The same one-judge trial
and appeal procedure available for enforcement of an
award order would appear to be an equally appropriate
and adequate tribunal for adjudication of validity of a
Commission order denying reparations. For actions to
enforce Commission orders awarding reparation, and actions to challenge Commission orders denying reparations,
basically involve the same parties, the same disputes, the
same claims for money dair.age§, and the same statutes.
We think the orders in both instances should be reviewed
in the same one-judge tribunal.
We have frequently pointed out the importance of limiting the three-judge court procedure within its expressly
stated confines.' We are confident that in holding that
one judge rather than three should entertain cases challenging Commission reparation orders we interpret the
congressional expediting procedure and the Interstate
Commerce Act in accoroance with their basic purpose.
Fifth. There remains the question of the proper disposition of this case. Three judges heard it. This, how.
ever, is no reason for dismissal of the cause. See Stain16 United States v. Griffin, supra, 234-237; Ayrshire Corp. v.
United States, 331 U. S. 132, 136-137; Stainback v. Mo.hock Ke
Lok Po, 336 U. S. 368, 378, n. 19; Phillips v. United States, 312 U. S.
246, 250.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

back v. Mo Hock Ke Lok Po, 336 U. S.368, 381. If the
allegations of the bill are true, the Commission's order
cannot stand. Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258,
264-266. Since the District Court did not pass on the
merits of the allegations of the complaint, the 6ause is
remanded to it for that purpose.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, with
JACKSON and MR. JUSTICE BURTON

whom MR. JUSTICE
join, dissenting.

Four times shippers have asked this Court to recognize
the right to review orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission denying claims for reparations against carriers; four times the United States resisted the right to
such judicial review; four times this Court sustained the
United States and held that. the courts were without
jurisdiction to review orders of the Commission denying
reparations. Twice the decisions followed full argument:
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.235, in which
the bar of the Interstate Commerce Act to such review
was expounded, and Brady v. United States, 283 U. S.
804, which relied on the Standard Oil case decided only
a few weeks before. Twice thereafter the dismissal by
district courts, for want of jurisdiction, of attempts to review such reparation orders was summarily affirmed without argument, so definitively had the Standard Oil case
settled the matter. Allison & Co. v. United States, 296
U. S. 546, affirming 12 F. Supp. 862; Ashland Coal,& Ice
Co. v. United States, 325 U. 5&840, affirming 61 F. Supp.
708, decided less than four years ago. In order to recover
a money claim of its own, the Government in this case
has suddenly shifted a position consistently maintained
by it for nearly twenty years against all other shippers
and urges the right to review an order denying reparations. Indeed, at the very same time that the Govern-

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

ment was arguing before the District Court for the District of Columbia for the right to review an order denying
it reparations; the Government successfully resisted precisely the same argument by a-private shipper in a suit
in the District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. Great Lakes Steel Corp. v. United States, 81 F.
Supp. 450. And the Government did so on the basis
of the controlling series of cases in this Court decided
on grounds which we are now asked to disregard.'
We are vouchsafed no explanation for the fact that
the United States should have urged four times upon
this Court, and contemporaneously with these proceedings in another district court, that an order resulting
from a reparation proceeding before the Interstate Commerce Commission is not reviewable and yet seeks review
in this instance. The only explanation that lies on the
surface is that in all the other cases the United States
was resisting the claims of private shippers, while in this
case the Government itself is the shipper. No doubt
enlightenment sometimes comes through self-interest.
But this Court's construction of the Interstate Commerce
Act, long matured in a series of cases, ought not to shift
with a shift in the Government's interest. The Interstate Commerce Commission rightly protests against it.
To yield to the Government's new contention is not only
to reverse a settled course of decision. To do so is to
mutilate the Whole scheme of the Interstate Commerce
Compare Brief for United States and Interstate Commerce Commission, pp. 7-22, Great Lakes Steel Corp. .v. United States, 81 F.
Supp. 450, with Brief for United States, pp. 14-39, United States
v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 78 F. Supp. 780. Since the
argument of this case the Great Lakes Steel case has ISeen brought
here on appeal, No. 749, this Term, and the Government has acknowledged the conflict. See Motion to Defer Consideration of the
Statement of Jurisdiction, Great Lakes Steel Corp. v. United States,
No. 749, this Term.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

Act by disregarding the distribution of authority Congress saw fit to make between the Commission and the
courts for the enforcement of -that Act.
One would suppose that four uniform decisions of this
Court, rendered after thorough consideration of a statutory scheme, constitute such a body of law as not to be
overruled, wholly apart from any argument that this
Court's construction of legislation is confirmed by Congress by reenactment without change. The Transportation Act of 19402 reenacted the relevant provisions' of
the Interstate Commerce Act after this Court had ruled
three times that a shipper who has unsuccessfully asked
the Commission for damages is -bound by its determination and cannot thereafter have another go at it in the
courts. The construction which these decisions have
made should be adhered to not only because the precise issue has already been decided by this Court but
because the Interstate Commerce Act requires it. "When
judicial review is available and under what circi'mstances,
are questions (apart from whatever requirements the
Constitution may make in certain situations) that depend
on the particular Congressional enactment under which
judicial review is authorized." Labor Board v. Cheney
CaliforniaLumber Co., 327 U. S. 385, 388. It will hardly
be suggested that the Constitution requires judicial review
of a reparation order by the Commission. Such a notion
is precluded by Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236, and the whole
unfolding of administrative law during the hundred years
since that. decision. This 'is not one of those exceptional
cases where "the sanction afforded by judicial proceedings" is implied in the guaranty of due process of law.
Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276,.284-5. Therefore,
it is as true bf the Interstate Commerce Act as it is of the
,National Labor Relations Act, that "Congress was entitled to determine what remedy it would provide, the way
2 54 Stat. 899, 49 U. S. C. § I et seq.

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

that remedy should be sought, the extent to which it
should be afforded, and the means by which it should
be made effective." Mr. Chief Justice Hughes, speaking
for the Court in Amalgamated Utility Workers v. Consolidated Edison Co., 309 U. S. 261, 264.
In the reticulated scheme for enforcement of the new
rights and obligations created by the Interstate Commerce
Act, Congress clearly indicated where the judiciary comes
in and where the judiciary is to keep out. More particularly, Congress has provided in detail for judicial review
in certain aspects of reparation claims that come before
the Commission; it has afforded an alternative procedure
as between .Commission and courts in some instances;
it has specifically precluded resort to judicial review
where the shipper has chosen resort to the Commission.
If the scheme Qf legislation that Congress has devised is to
be respected, judicial review of the Commission's order
denying it reparations is not open to the Government.
A summary of what this case involves should precede
--a detailed analysis of the Act, so far as relevant to its
disposition.
At the time this controversy arose it had long been the
practice for railroads reaching Atlantic ports to absorb the
cost of wharfage and handling services furnished by them
for goods destined for shipment overseas. This applied
only to services.rendered on so-called public wharves; excluding, that is, services so required on wharves operated
by a shipper himself. The wharves in question were piers
owned by the Government, but leased by it for commercial peacetime. operations as public terminal facilities of
the railroads. Up to June 15, 1942, these piers were operated by the Transport Trading and Terminal Corporation, as agent of the defehdant railroads. War conditions
made it necessary for the Government to cancel its leases
with the Terminal Corporation and, on June 15, 1942, it
took over the operation of these piers for the movement of

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

military freight, almost entirely outbound. The railroads
refused allowances for the cost of services which they had
theretofore absorbed, and declined a later request of the
Army to perform the handling services because the Army,
not the railroads, controlled the piers.
Claiming to be damaged by the refusal of the railroads to grant allowances for the Government's handling of its goods on its own piers, when it excluded
the Terminal Corporation and took over the piers, the
Government initiated these proceedings before the Commission for reparations under § 8 of the Interstate Commerce Act.3 It filed its complaint under §§ 9 and 13
of that Act.' Claiming that the rates under the existing tariffs were unjust and unreasonable, .and that it was
discriminated against because other shippers were furnished wharfage and handling services which it performed at its own expense, the Government sought
relief against continuance of alleged violations of §§ 1
(5) (a), 1 (6), and 15 (13) of the Interstate Commerce
Act. The complaint was sustained by Division 2, with
one Commissioner dissenting. United States v. Aberdeen
& Rockfish R. Co., 263 I. C. C. 303. The full Commission reversed the findings of Division 2 and ordered
the complaint dismissed, four Commissioners dissenting.
264 I. C. C. 683. On reargument the full Commission
adhered to its findings, five Commissioners dissenting.5
324 Stat. 38:, as amended, 49 U. S. C. § 8.
.' 24 Stat. 382, as amended, 49 U. S. C. § 9, 24 Stat. 383, as amended,
49 U. S. C. § 13.
- It held that the. rates for export applied only when the wharves
were public, which these wharves were not. The Commission also
pointed out that the railroads had made other concessions to the
Government; that the rates charged, together with a reasonable
allowance for the services not provided, were still below the upper,
limits of reasonableness; that the wharfage charges had been absorbed because of competitive conditions. 264 I. C. C. 683, 269
I. C. C. 141.

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

269 I. C. C. 141. At the time of its final report, it was
assumed that the operation of the piers reverted to the
situation existing prior to June 15, 1942, so that the
purpose of the proceeding before the Commission was
deemed to be for reparations only. 269 I. C. C. at 147.
Invoking the procedure of the Urgent Deficiencies Act
of 1913, the Government then sought to set aside the
order of the Commission dismissing the Government's
complaint. (Act of October 22, 1913, 38 Stat. 219-21,
now 28 U. S. C. §§ 1253, 1336, 2101, 2284, 2321-2325.)
A duly constituted district court, with three judges sitting,
found itself without jurisdiction to review the Commission's order. 78 F. Supp. 580. This judgment should
be affirmed, insofar as it held that an order of the Commission denying damages by way of reparations in proceedings brought before the Commission is not reviewable
in the courts.
To ascertain whether an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission is open to judicial review, it.should
rigorously be borne in mind that jurisdiction to review
such an order must have been conferred by Congress.
To assume that an order of the Commission for which
reviewing power is not conferred, is presumably reviewable by the courts is to start with the answer of the problem to be solved. Unless Congress has chosen to give
the courts oversight of a determination by the Commission, the courtg have not the power of oversight where,
as here, the Constitution does not require it. If Congress
has made no grant of power to courts to review the Commission's order denying a claim for reparation, and, in
fact, has explicitly withheld resort to the courts after
such denial by the Commission, it is wholly immaterial
that as to other types of orders the right to review has
been given to the courts, or that a determination by
the Commission closely related to reparations, but not
in fact a claim for damages, does not bar access to the
courts.

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

When dealing with the Interstate Commerce Act we are
dealing not with an episodic bit of legislation to which
the general jurisdiction of the federal courts presumably
applies. We are dealing with the oldest regulatory
scheme which, by successive amendments and enlargements, established a comprehensive, self-contained regime both of administration and adjudication. The
scheme as a whole ought not to be dislocated to meet
the exigencies of a particular situation.
First. Judicial review of an order by the Commission
dismissing a complaint for reparations has heretofore been
urged exclusively on the basis of the Urgent Deficiencies
Act. The jurisdiction of the district court in this case was
invoked under that Act. This is the sole basis of jurisdiction urged by the Government here in its comprehensive
brief and argument, and the Court rejects it. It rightly
rejects it. But the compelling considerations for this rejection demand a further analysis of the structure and
details of the jurisdictional provisions relating to orders of
the Interstate Commerce Commission. Such analysis is
essential to lay bare the equally compelling considerations
against jurisdiction under the general equity powers of
the district courts.
Section 8 of the Interstate Commerce' Act created a
civil liability of carriers for damages caused by violation
of the new obligations imposed by that Act. In the
absence of specific remedies, it would be fair to assume
that these new rights were enforceable. in the district
courts under their general jurisdiction over suits "arising
under any Adt of Congress regulating commerce." 28
U. S. C. § 1337. But the Interstate Commerce Act did
not stop with a mere declaration of liability. It defined
.a specific course of procedure; it. particularized the remedies available to those to whom new rights were given
aid the Way in which they were to be pursued. "In such
a case the specification of one remedy normally excludes

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

another." Switchmen's Union of North America v. National MediationBoard, 320 U. S. 297, 301. For charging
more than the tariff rate or charging a discriminatory
rate, the Act provides alternative procedures set forth
in detail in § 9. These are the relevant provisions:
"any person or persons claiming to be damaged by any
common carrier . . . may either make complaint to the
Commission as hereinafter provided for, or may bring
suit . . . inany district . . . court of the United States
of competent jurisdiction; but such person or persons
shall not have the right to pursue both of said remedies, and must in each case elect which one of the two
methods of procedure herein provided for he or they
will adopt." 24 Stat. 379, 382, as amended, 49 U. S. C.
§ 9. With qualifications shortly to be noted, a suit
begun in a district court follows the 'course of any other
action there. On the other hand, if the shipper prefers
to pursue the alternative course-the administrative
route-to obtain damages for a violation of the Act, h
files his complaint with the Commission.
As to a proceeding before the Commission, whether
for damages or for a rate adjustment, § 13 defines the
procedure; 6 the role of the courts in relation to the Commission's orders is defined by §§ 16' and 17 (9).8 Section
16 fixes the time for filing a complaint either in the courts
or before the Commission; it also provides for the enf0rcement of an order awarding damages, limiting the
'lime within which such an action must be brought, and
stating the effect to be given to the Commission's award.
Since 1940, the provisions of the Urgent Deficiencies Act
of 1913 (38 Stat. 219-21), conferring on the district courts
the jurisdiction in suits on orders of the Commission
theretofore vested in the abolished Commerce Court, were
624 Stat. 383, as amended, 49 U. S. C. § 13.
724 Stat. 384, as amended, 49 U. S. C. § 16.
854 Stat. 916, 49 U. S.C. § 17 (9).

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

incorporated in § 17 (9). A few yeas previous the procedural provisibns of the Urgent Deficiencies Act of 1913
became part of Title 28 of the United States Code.
By this scheme of law enforcement, carefully apportioned between Commission and courts, Congress has
provided that insofar as any order, provided it is not
one for money damages, car be enjoined, set aside and
enforced it must be under tho provisions dealing with suits
to enforce, enjoin, or set aside orders of the Commission,
"but not otherwise." 54 Stat. 916, 49 U. S. C. § 17 (9).
By this limitation Congress has made it as clear as language can that if an order is not within § 16, because not
.one for money damages, if review is available, it must
be under §17. If the Cpmmission action does not fall
within § 16 or § 17, it is'not reviewable at all. Orders
under § 17 are reviewable only as provided for in the
Urgent Deficiencies Act. But the Urgent Deficiencies
Act furnishes only procedural, details; it .merely defines
the method of review and not the kinds of cases for which
review is available. It did not make reviewable actions
previously unreviewable. 50 Cong. Rec. 4536, 4542. Cf.
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 235, 241;
United States v. Jones, 336 U. S. 641, 647-8. It is the.
body of law constituting the Interstate Commerce Act
which Oetermines whether and under what circumstances
review may be had. A long course of judicial application
in a field bf law, fairly to be called technical, has gradually
ascertained from the context of the comprehensive scheme
of legislation the kind and the characteristics of orders
that are reviewable.
If the dismissal of a reparation complaint is not within
the phrase "any order" in § 17,(9) of the Interstate
Commerce Act, it is also not within the, "any order"
phrase of the sections of Title 28 (§ 41 (28) and § 46 of
the 1946 ed., and §§ 1336 and 2324 of the present Title
28), .ihich embody the review provisions .formerly in

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

the Urgent Deficiencies Act of 1913, which provisions in
turn were taken from the Commerce Court Act. 36 Stat.
539. Although § 2321 of Title 28 of the Revised Code
requires that "any order" of the Interstate Commerce
Commission other than one "for the payment of money"
should be reviewed according to the procedure under the
pro-visions providing for a three-judge court, it is clear
that "there are many orders of the Commission which
are not judicially reviewable under the provision now
incorporated in the Urgent Deficiencies Act." United
States v. Los Angeles & S. L. R. Co., 273 U. S. 299, 309.
In the Los Angeles & S. L. R. Co. case it was held that
the district court had no jurisdiction to review a final valuation order-neither by virtue of the Urgent Deficiencies
Act, nor under its general equity powers. This result
was' reached partly because of want of equity, but -also
because it was found, upon full consideration, that not
every order of the Commission is "any order" within the
jurisdictional authorization of the Interstate Commerce
Act and the applicable provisions of the Urgent Deficiencies Act. So, also, an order refusing to increase the allowance for railroad mail compensation is not reviewable
under the Urgent Deficiencies Act. United States v.
Griffin, 303 U. S. 226; see also Great Northern R. Co. v.
United States, 277U. S. 172. The ground given in the
Griffin case was that, although there was a case or controversy and final action, this typb of order was not within
the Urgent Deficiencies Act-and thi§, as we reaffirmed
the other day, quite apart from the obsolete "negative
order" doctrine. United States v. Jones, 336 U. S. 641,
647. Finally-and it ought to be decisive-on four occasions this Court has held that the Commission's refusal to
award reparations, when the shipper, as here, proceeded
under § 13 of the Act, is not reviewable. Standard Oil
Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 235; Brady v. Interstate
Commerce Comm'n, 43 F. 2d 847, affirmed per curiam

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

after argument, Brady v. United States, 283 U. S. 804;
Allison & Co. v. United States, 12 F. Supp. 862, affirmed
per curiam, 296 U. S. 546; Ashland Coal & Ice Co. v.
United States, 61 F. Supp. 708, affirmed per curiam, 325
U. S. 840. These decisions were based upon the fact
that the Interstate Commerce Act precludes review by
the courts when the shipper had first sought damages
before the Commission.
The extraordinary consequences of jurisdiction under
the Urgent Deficiencies Act-direct appeal to this Court,
a district court of three judges, precedence over other
cases on both trial and appeal-were to come into play
in strictly limited situations. These can be fairly summarized as covering only the kinds of administrative
orders which generally are "of public importance because of the widespread effect of the decisions" rendered by the Commission. United States v. Griffin,
supra, 303 U. S. at 233. The reparation orders here involved, as is true of all reparation orders, since the shipper must show actual damages, concern only the shipper
and the common carrier which ch4rged the rate. An
underlying legal issue which may be of wider public
importance can, of course, be adjudicated in a way which
permits judicial review. Thus, an order dealing with
future rates is reviewable under the provisions for a
three-judge: court.
But there is another reason why reparation orders are
not reviewable under the three-judge court provisions.
Section 17, incorporating the Urgent Deficiencies' mode
of review, is not concerned with reparation claims but
with a wholly different matter. Reparation claims have
been specifically dealt with in other sections of the Act,
and, to the extent that review was intended, it is specifically provided for.. By the original Act, orders for the
payment of money-were enforceable in equity. Interstate Commerce Act of -1887,. § 16, 24 Stat. 379, 384-385.

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

On the suggestion that this was a denial of the common
carrier's right to trial by jury guaranteed by the Seventh
Amendment, see 19 Cong. Rec. 5149-50, Congress
promptly provided that a successful shipper before the
Commission had to sue at law on his award. 25 Stat.
855, 859-60, as amended, 49 U. S. C. § 16 (2). But there
was no occasion for court review of a rate order because
the original Interstate Commerce Act, while giving the
shipper a right to damage for past violations, did not give
the Commission rate-making authority. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Cincinnati,N. 0. & T. Pac. R. Co.,
167 U. S. 479. The rate-making power was first conferred by the Hepburn Act of 1906. 34 Stat. 584, 586587. For the review of such rate orders Congress enacted what is now § 17 (9). Then, for the first time,
the courts were given jurisdiction over a suit "to enjoin,
set aside, annul, or suspend any order or requirement
of the Commission," and "jurisdiction to hear and determine such suits" was thereby vested in the circuit
court of the district in which the common carrier was
located. 34 Stat. 592; see H. R. Rep. No. 591, 59th Cong.,
1st Sess. 4-5 (1906); H. R. Rep. No. 4093, 58th Cong., 3d
Sess. 2, 5 (1905); United States v. Los Angeles & S. L. R.
Co., 273 U. S.299, 309.
In 1910, this identical jurisdiction was transferred from
the circuit courts and conferred upon the newly created
Commerce Court, but it was expressly provided: "Nothing
contained in this Act shall be construed as enlarging
the jurisdiction now possessed by the circuit courts
of the United States . . . ." 36 Stat. 539. This provision was inserted in the legislation so "that the creation of this court shall not be construed as giving to the
Commerce Court any greater jurisdiction than is now
possessed by the circuit courts of the United States over
similar matters." H. R. Rep. No. 923, 61st Cong., 2d
Sess. 7 (1910); see S. Rep. No. 55, 61st Cong., 2d Sess.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

4, Pt. 2, 4-5 (1910); see S. Doc. No. 606, Vol. 54, 61st
Cong., 2d Sess. 2 (1910). By this legislation of 1910,
Congress merely provided for a shift of jurisdiction, from
the old circuit courts to the new centralized Commerce
Court, and not an enlargement of jurisdiction. When in
1913 the Commerce Court was abolished the same jurisdiction was revested in the district 'courts, the circuit
courts having been abolished in the meantime: "the jurisdiction vested in said Commerce Court . . . [was]
transferred to and vested in the several district courtF of
the United States." 38 Stat. 219. Indisputably Congress did not make reviewable orders which could not
have been reviewed by the Commerce Court.'
Therefore, even putting to one side § 9, the dismissal
of the reparation complaint was clearly not within the
words "any order" in § 17 (9): (1) if it were within § 17
(9) it would be reviewable only by a three-judge court,
9There was no C6mmittee Report on this legislation: it was added
to an appropriation bill. See 50 Cong. Rec. 4527-8. - Mr. Fitzgerald,
the sponsor of the amendment, said that its sole purpose was to
abolish the Commerce Court and make provision for the litigation
over which that court had jurisdiction. "It does not give any new
right to any parties." 50 Cong. Rec. 4532, 4536, 4542. There was
an attempt to enlarge the review provision so as to give shippers
review where previously it did not exist, but this amendment was
defeated after debate. 50 Cong. Rec. 4532, 4543-44. It was said:
"The legislation contained in this bill simply abolishes a court that
ought never to have been created and vests the jurisdiction which
it now exercises in the district courts of the United States. That
is all of it, and that is all there ought to be of it. There ought not
to be any attempt to enact substantive law in this bill. There ought
not "to be any attempt to have.an increase or decrease of the powers
of the commission, and there ought not to be any attempt to increase
or decrease the jurisdiction of the district courts over that of the
Commerce Court. The only reason why the district courts are
designated instead of the circuit courts is that the circuit courts
have been abolished since the Commerce Court was created." 50
Cong. Rec. 4536.

UNITED STATES v.' I. C. C.
426

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

but that reviewing device is not applicable to reparation
claims; (2) reparation claims are not within § 17 (9) because they have been treated by a different scheme
throughout the history of the Act. If review is to be
found within the Act, it must be because of provisions
other than those in § 17 (9).
Second. The only other provision in the Interstate
Commerce Act which affords judicial review of an order
is § 16. That section, however, comes into force only
when an award for damages is made., Rejection by the
Commission of a money claim is outside the express terms
of that section and not within what can fairly be implied
from any -language in it. A general argument of fairness
is made that since this section provides for court review
when an award is made where the carrier loses, the -shipper
is entitled to review when the carrier wins. Leaving aside,
temporarily, the fact that what Congress has written
in § 9 forecloses court review, to yield to such an inference
in favor of a shipper whose claim is denied raises insuperable difficulties once we leave the text and scheme
of the Act and go at large as to court review. Thus
there would be no limit on the time in which review
of the Commission's dismissal of the reparation claim
could be brought, whereas § 16 fixes a time limit for
suits against the carrier on awards by the Commission.
43 Stat. 633, as amended, 49 U. S. C. § 16 (3) (f). This
is just one of the obstructions if we are to imply court
review of orders disallowing reparation claims because
Congress has seen fit to allow suits on orders granting
an award. In other respects the Court would have to
legislate for Congress. What effect is to be given to
the Commission's finding? If the shipper receives an
award of damages and sues the carrier thereon,..§ 16 (2)
-provides that the Commission's findings are prima facie
evidence. 41 Stat. 491, as amended, 49 U. S. C. § 16 (2).
Are we to create the same rule judicially, though Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

has not done so, when the shipper fails before the Commission? May the shipper introduce new evidence in the
district court? When the shipper sues 'the common carrier, the Commission's action in making an award "cuts
off no defense, interposes no obstacle to a full contestation of all the issues, and takes no question of fact from
either court or jury." Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh Valley R.
Co., 236 U. S. 412, 430. But if the unsuccessful shipper
can save up evidence until he gets in court, the advantages
of a Commission hearing are destroyed. What will be the
scope of the Court's jurisdiction? Would the district
court determine only liability, or also Ithe amount to be
recovered, or only that the Commission acted without
justification in fact or contrary to law? The answer to
none of these questions can be found in § 16. Yet, one
would suppose, if review in this situation is to be derived
from § 16, some guides for its exercise should also be found
in that section, considering the particularities with which
it defines review in the instances authorizing court action.
Therefore, this Court has held: "Section 16 (2) does not
permit suit in the absence of an award, and if the Commission denies him relief, a claimant is remediless." Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Brady, 288 U. S. 448, 458.
'Money damages are part of the regulatory scheme.
Mitchetl Coal & Coke Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 230
U. S. 247, 258. But while the Commission may determine
that rates for the future be reduced, it is not required to
award damages for the higher rates in the past. Thus it is
not at all strange that its action be not subject to court
review where the shipper has failed to persuade the Commissicn to award damages. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.
Brady., 288 U. S. 448, 458. Especially is this true when
Congroes- has provided for an alternative .procedure
whereby the shipper would have been able to go to court.
Therefore, even without any explicit provision it would
be a reasonable inference that Congress did not intend

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

-FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

to grant a review where the shipper has decided to Seek
his damages before the Commission.
Even though Congress provided alternate methods of
securing damages, and authorized court review when the
Commission sustained a money claim, but not when it
denied such a claim, Congress did not leave merely to
rational inference that upon denial of a money award by
the Commission, the shipper could not again try his luck
in court. By § 9 Congress gave the shipper his choice
of forum: he could ask for damages either from the Commission or a court, but could "not have the right to pursue
both of said remedies"; he "must in each case elect which
one of the two methods of procedure herein provided for
he . . . will adopt." 24 Stat. 382, as amended, 49 U. S. C.
§ 9. If the shipper asks the Commission to award him
damages and it goes against him, Congress has barred
review of the denial or revision of the amount of the
award. Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. Brady, 288 U. S. 448,
458-59. Since Congress gave the shipper the alternative
of administrative or judicial relief, there can be no question but that Congress was constitutionally free to make
final the administrative choice.
Third. Since access to court review of an order denying reparations was barred by the Interstate Commerce
Act, such review is not available under the general jurisdiction of the district courts. 28 U.'S. C. § 1337. It
has never been suggested, during some sixty years of
active litigation over this problem, that for review of
such an order resort may be had to a court of equity
outside the framework of the Interstate Commerce Act.
Even the Government does not now suggest it, and naturally so. Due regard for the explicit provisions of the
Act precludes it. And for these reasons:
(1) The specific terms of §,17 (9) which alone give reviewing power to the courts, save in cases'where the carrier has been held to owe money, do so' "under. those pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

visions of law applicable in the case of suits to enforce,
enjoin, suspend, or set aside orders of the Commission,
but not otherwise." 54 Stat. 916, 49 U. S. C. § 17 (9).
It is obvious that review would be "otherwise" if the
unsuccessful shipper be permitted to bring an action
under 28 U. S. C. § 1337. This reason exists independently of the fact that § 9 also prohibits court action after
an attempt to recover damages is made before the Commission. It is also independent of the fact that provisions of Title 28 do not make reviewable orders for which
the Interstate Commerce Act does not provide review.
(2) Because of these provisions, review of reparation
claims differs from the situation in Shields v. Utah I. C. R.
Co., 305 U. S. 177. There the Court was not confronted
with an enactment which said that if a person sought the
Commission's aid he could not thereafter go to court.
The Shields case is inapposite on another ground. By
determining that a certain railroad was subject to the
Interstate Commerce Act, the Commission placed the railroad under the active hazards of criminal sanctions.
Equity was invoked for one . of its ancient functions
of staying a multiplicity of criminal prosecutions to avoid
irreparable harm. See 305 U. S. at 183, and Switchmen's Union of North America v. National Mediation
Board, 32q U. S. 297, 306. Here there is not the remotest ground for appeal to equity. It is merely a matter
of dollars and cents-not the hazards of criminal prosecution-and an insistence on having two modes of recovering money damages when Congress has given shippers
the choice of one or the other. There is a total absence
of any of the traditional grounds for equitable relief. Cf.
United States v. Los Angeles & S. L. R. Co., 273 U. S.
299, 314-5.
Nor is review permitted under § 1336 of. Title 28
(1948), if it is determined that the typeof order involved
is not of the nature calling for a three-judge court. The

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

Government relied on the special scheme of the Urgent
Deficiencies Act as incorporated in the Interstate Com-.
merce Act conferring. jurisdiction to review orders of
the Commission. This scheme requires review by a threejudge court. The Court rejects that claim on the ground
that a reparation orderis not the type of order so reviewable. Instead the Court finds jurisdiction in the district
court to entertain a petition to review an order of the
Commission denying reparation in § 41 (28) of Title 28
(1946 ed.), now § 1336. But jurisdiction under § 41 (28)
carries also the requirement of a three-judge court. See
§§ 41-47, now c. 157 of Title 28 of the Revised Code.
No jurisdiction can be derived from § 41 (28) of Title
28 unless the order is of the type that is reviewable by
a three-judge court. To reject the latter is necessarily
to hold that no jurisdiction of the district court is derivable from § 41 (28) of Title 28, now § 1336.10
10 In United States v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 226, it was held that because the type of order there involved was not the type reviewable
by a three-judge court, the phrase the "district courts shall have jurisdiction 'of cases brought to enjoin, set aside, annul or suspend in whole
or in part any order of the Interstate Commerce Commission'," did
not confer jurisdiction on the district court. 303 U. S. at 227-228.
The quoted words are the provision in the Urgent Deficiencies Act and
are precisely the same provision that was carried over to § 41 (28).
When we had this general problem here the other day in United
States v. Jones, 336 U. S. 641, it was not suggested that there was
jurisdiction to review an order of the Commission under § 41 (28),
now § 1336 of Title 28. Instead, the Court agreed with the Griffin
case that the order there involved was not of a type calling for a
three-judge court and therefore that the jurisdictional provisions of
§41 (28), now'§ 1336 of Title 28, were not applicable. The Court
significantly referred to the provisions of § 41 (6), now § 1339 of
Title 28, the section giving general jurisdiction over suits arising
under the postal laws, as the only possible source of jurisdiction.
In the context of this case the comparable provision is § 41 (8), now
§ 1337. The only reason why the Court now seeks to warp the.
whole structure of Title 28 rather than to rely on the only section

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

037 U. S.

Moreover, a suit filed under the jurisdiction of § 41
(28) of Title 28 is one against the United States with the
Interstate Commerce Commission as a party only if it
chooses to intervene. 28 U.-S. C. §§ 2322, 2323. Congressional consent is required to authorize such a suit
and congressional consent has been authorized only under
the conditions requisite for a three-judge court proceeding
for which this Court finds no jurisdiction, 28 U. S. C.
§§ 2321-2325. On 'the basis of the result in this case
the decision below in the Great Lakes Steel case, No.
749 this Term, must of course be reversed. And so this
Court would direct the allowance of a suit against the
United States, although Congress has not given consent
thereto. The only possible escape from this conclusion
is that jurisdiction is to be denied when a private shipper
seeks to go into court after the Commission has dismissed
his complaint for damages, as in the Great Lakes Steel
case, but jurisdiction somehow or other should be acknowledged when the Government is the shipper. The
defense of sovereign immunity, moreover, cannot be
avoided by directing that the suit proceed Only against
the Interstate Commerce Commission. There is no claim
that the Commission acted unconstitutionally, or that
it proceeded under an unconstitutional statute, or that
it acted beyond the authority conferred by a valid statute.
It merely acted within the scope of its authority and
made a determination, as it was legally bound to do,
based upon the law and the facts. The difficulty of
which conceivdbly gives jurisdiction to a one-judge court is in order
to escape the embarrassing fact that such a suit would be squarely
in the face of §9 of the Interstate Commerce Act. Of course even
the procedure adopted is in the face of § 9 of the Interstate Commerce
Act as interpreted, in four previous decisions of the Court. But
reliance on §.41 (8), now § 1337, would at least have the virtue of
only mutilating one Act-that is, the Interstate Commerce Actrather than both that Act and § 41 (28) of Title 28 (1946'ed.), now
§ 1336 and c. 157 of Title 28 of the Revised Code.

.UNITED STATES v. L C. C.
426

FRAI KFURTER,

463

J., dissenting.

sovereign immunity forcibly demonstrates again -why a
-method of court review cannot be found outside the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act.
Fourth. We now turn to § 9. The. language leaves
no room for doubt. But it is now urged (though the
Government has not so argued in the four decisions that
went against private shippers) that where the.,damage
claim was based on other than a mere arithmetical overcharge, the election afforded by § 9 is illusory. This is
so, it is argued, because when complaint is made that
rates were unfair, prejudicial or unreasonable, the doctrine of Texas & Pac. R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co.,
204 U. S. 426, is brought into operation. It is said that
the Government never had an opportunity to go into
court until the Commission dismissed its complaint.
Sufficient respect is given to § 9, so the argument runs, by
reading it to bar "initiating" another action in the court
after it has failed before the Commission, not to reviewing
the Commission's action. So to argue is to rewrite what
Congress has written. Congress did not bar "initiating";
it barred "the right to pursue." The Court concedes that
§ 9 is a bar when a shipper could have gone in the. first
instance to the courts. This was so ruled in Baltimore
& 0. R. Co. v. Brady, 288 U. S.448. But what language
affords a basis for a distinction when a determination of
a transportation issue must be made by the Commission
before the case can proceed to judgment? Moreover, the
result of the Court's decision is to make the Commission's
decision final in those instances where the Commission is
acting purely judicially-merely a matter of applying the
law to the facts-but not final when the Commission, acting in the realm of its administrative expertness, found a
practice legal, and therefore denied damages. Adjudication and settled practice before the Commission likewise
disprove this discovery that the choice given by Congress
in § 9 is a sham.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

The Commission must often pass on the legality of a
particular practice of a carrier; such proceedings may
serve as the basis for reparations. Under Part I of the
Transportation Act, relating to rail carriers, the. shipper
may ask the Commission for a declaration that a practice
has been illegal and base a claim of damages on such
illegality under § 8 of the Act. His other course is to
secure a Commission determination only as to the illegality of the practice and not ask for an award, reserving
the claim of. damages for court action. This may be done
in one of two ways. He may begin by filing his suit
in court and ask the court to hold the case until he
has obtained an administrative determination from the
Commission." There is no jurisdictional bar to such
a procedure. In Texas & Pac." R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204U. S. 426, the Court said the case should
be dismissed; .but preoccupation was with the necessity
for prior administrative determination, not with whether
there was jurisdiction in the sense of power to hold the
case until there had been a Commission determination.
Cases-decided after the Abilene case-have clearly rec" For the period since April 28, 1948, although there have been
no instances in which the shipper has asked for a determination of
the legality of a practice under Part I of the Act, in 'a complaint
which also stated that a court action was being held in abeyance,
there have been thirteen instances where complaints were filed before
thd Commission asking only for a determination of the legality
of a practice because the complainant there was the defendant in
a civil action in the courts. Since January, 1948, there have been five
proceedings under Part II of the Act in which the shipper first
instituted suit in the courts and then asked that the suit be held
in abeyance until the Commission made a determination as to the
legality of a particular practice. It should be pointed out that.
under Part II of the Act the Commission has no power to award
damages; the doctrine of primary jurisdiction, however, is nevertheless applicable. Bell Potato Chip Co. v. Aberdeen Truck Line,
43 M. C. C. 337, 342-343.

UNITED STATES v. I. C C.
426

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

ognized that there is jurisdiction to hold the case, and this
procedure has been suggested in a number of them. 2
Mitchell Coal & Coke Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 230
U. S. 247, 267; MorrisdaleCoal Co.. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co.,
230 U. S.304, 314-5; see Smith v. Hoboken R. Co., 328
U. S. 123, 133; Thompson v. Texas Mexican R. Co.,
12 The El Dorado Terminal Co. litigation did not involve a claim
by a shipper for recovery of an overcharge by a carrier. Therefore,
the decisions in General American Tank Car Corp. v. El Dorado
Terminal Co., 308 U. S. 422, and El Dorado Oil Works v. United

'States, 328 U. S. 12, did not involve the statutory scheme relating to
reparations. The cases have no bearing on the problem here-namely
the jurisdictional requirements of § 9 in the context of the Interstate
Commerce Act. The El Dorado litigation was an ordinary action on a
contract. Entangled, however, in the proper construction of that
contract was the ascertainment of a transportation fact, which, with
due regard to the Abilene doctrine, made prior, determination by the
Interstate Commerce Commission appropriate. To that end it was
ruled, in the first El Dorado case, that the.action in the District Court
should be held for such administrative determination,- General American Tank Car Corp. v. El Dorado Terminal Co., 308 U. S. 422. That
ruling does establish that simply because a prior determination by the
Interstate Commerce Commission is required before a litigation can
proceed to judgment does not deprive a district court of jurisdiction.
This circumstance merely calls for the suspension of the exercise
of jurisdiction until the appropriate fact is established by the Interstate Commerce Commission and then introduced in evidence in
the pending court case, instead of being established independently
in court, as is usually the case. "While we rejected the Commissibn's
contention that the District Court had no jurisdiction to hear the
case, we accepted its contention that determination of the validity
of the challenged past practices was for the Commission." El-Dorado
Oil Works v. United States, 328 U. S. 12, 17. The order made by
the Interstate Commerce Commission in response to the requirement of the first El Dorado case was not an order of dismissal in
a reparation suit. Procedurally it did not make very much difference, therefore, whether this order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission should have been entered in the pending litigation or
was allowed to be considered in a new proceeding before the District
Court.

As a matter of procedural elegance it was more appropriate

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

328 U. S. 134, 151; see also Bell Potato Chip Co. v. Aberdeen Truck Line, 43 M. C. C. 337, 343.
The other method open to a shipper who desires to
avail himself of the court remedy given by § 9 is to
initiate proceedings before the Commission and to ask
merely for a'declaration regarding the legality of a past
practice, but not for damages. This course is manifested
by the complaints before the Commission, asking merely
for a declaration without any ad damnum. For the
period between July, 1947, and February, 1949, 46 such
cases were filed under Part I of the Act. Under Part II,
22 complaints have been filed since January 1, 1948, requesting such a declaration as to the legality' of a practice."3
for it to have forzied part of the then pending litigation which was
suspended precisely for the purpose of obtaining such an order.
In Armour & Co. v. Alton R. "Co., 312 U. S. 195, the essential
question was whether a particular issue could be determined by the
court or, in conformity with the Abilene doctrine, required Commission determination. The preoccupation of the case was with that
issue. After holding that the doctrine of the Abilene case was
applicable, the Court affirmed the judgment below requiring a ruling
from the Interstate Commerce Commission, without considering
whether there was jurisdiction in the sense of power to entertain
but hold the case.
13 These figures are not given to imply that in every instance, or
even in most instances, Commission action is followed by a suit
in the court for damages. Their sole purpose is to show that, by
not seeking damages from the Commission, a complainant leaves
himself free, under § 9, to go to the courts.
The,Commission prefers that the shipper first file a suit in the
cozt before asking the Commission for a declaration. This procedure: has the advantage of preventing the statute of limitations from
running on the shipper while aw~iting Commission decision. Also,
"In circumstances such as described, it is apparent that precautions
should be taken to prevent the filing of frivolous or moot complaints. Without attempting at this time to devise a precise rule,
we think it pertinent to point out that, generally speaking, adversary
proceedings involving past unreasonableness, unjust discrimination,

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

The Government thus had a real choice. Terminal
Warehouse Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 297 U. S. 500,
507-8. But, having first sought the advantages of a
Commission award, it foreclosed itself from pursuing a
judicial remedy when its expectations failed. A double
remedy which Congress denied, this Court ought not -to
grant. The Government "had a choice . . . between a
remedy at the hands of 'the Commission and a remedy
by suit, but by express provision of the statute it could
riot have them both." Terminal Warehouse Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., supra, p. 508.
The conclusion reached by a reading of the statute
is reenforced by the adjudicated cases. In Standard Oil
Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 235, three distinct grounds
were given for affirming the district court's dismissal for
want of jurisdiction of a suit to review an order of the
Commission dismissing a claim for damages. One reason
was that the order was "a negative order"; that reason has
been displaced by Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United
States, 307 U. S. 125. But the Standard Oil decision
was left intact by the Rochester decision, for the opinion
in that case explicitly pointed out that "the main basis"
of the Standard Oil decision "was not the 'negative order' doctrine but [that] the statutory scheme dealing
with reparations" precluded review of an order denying
money damages. 307 U. S. at p. 140, n. 23. The "stator undue prejudice under part II should not be brought before us
prior to. the institution of a suit in court in which damages are
sought predicated upon the unlawfulness alleged in the complaint.
The complaint should show that such suit has been brought within
the period allowed by the applicable statute of limitations. There
may be other situations in which we should exercise this jurisdiction. In this connection, it may be noted that it is a recognized
practice to hold in abeyance court proceedings pending the determination by the Commission of administrative questions." Bell Potato Chip Co. v. Aberdeen Truck Line, 43 M. C. C. 337,343.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

utory scheme" was thus defined in the Standard Oil
case: "Having elected to proceed and having proceeded
to a determination before the Commission, appellant was,
by force of this provision [§ 9], precluded from seeking
reparation upon the same claims by the alternative
method of procedure." 283 U. S. at 241; see also Mr.
Justice Cardozo for the Court in Terminal Warehouse
Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 297 U. S. 500, 507-8. The
Standard Oil Company'as a shipper was precisely in the
same situation as the United States ir this case; the
United States pursued the same course in this case as did
the Standard Oil Company. The Standard Oil Company
was not "initiating" an action in the district court but
was seeking judicial review of the Commission's action,
and this is precisely what the United States is doing in
this case. The only difference between the Standard Oil
case and this case is that in the earlier case the Standard
Oil Company was the plaintiff, and in this case it is the
Government. What the Court said in the Standard Oil
case is equally applicable here. "It is of no importance
that the adjudication sought is to take the form of a
direction to the Commission to grant the prayer of the
complaints filed before that body, etc., instead of a plenary judgment to the same end,, for the prayer in that
form is nothing less than an Attempt to avoid the statute
by indirection." 283 U. S. at p. 241.
In view of the fact that the Rochester case expressly
saved that phase of the Standard'Oil decision which is
decisive of the problem before us now-"the statutory
scheme dealing with reparations"-the Court's holding
that the Rochester case impliedly overruled the Standard
Oil case means of course that to this extent the Court
today overrules the Rochester case, not that the Rochester
case had overruled the Standard Oil case, wholly apart
from the fact that the Standard Oil decision was the

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

1F'RANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

basis of a decision long after the Rochester case." Ashland Coal & Ice Co. v. United States, 325 U. S. 840.
And to what end these dislocations of so many decisions? We have been vouchsafed no considerations of
policy, no revealed injustice flowing from the construction thus far placed upon the reparations provision of
the Interstate Commerce Act, no difficulties in its ad14

No decision of this Court has. ever expressly or.impliedly over-

ruled the decision in the Standard.Oil case. Least of all can it be said
that Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United States, 307 U. S. 125, overruled the case, for the opinion with great care stated that the Standard Oil case was not overruled in its holding that orders dismissing
a claim for reparations were not reviewable because of § 9 of the
Interstate Commerce Act. See 307 U. S. at p. 140, n. 23. The Court
there did only what the Court the other day did in United States v.
Jones, 336 U. S. 641, 647-8, that is, it decided that for reasons wholly
unrelated to the "negative order" doctrine an order of the Commission
was not reviewable. If anything, the conclusion in the Standard
Oil case was reinforced by the Rochester decision in that it was
reaffirmed by the very decision that put the "negative order" doctrine
and decisions dealing with it under the strictest scrutiny. That
examination revealed that only one case out of the whole series of
cases examined was really determined by the "negative order" doctrine. That was the only case the Court overruled. And even Mr.
Justice Butler, who filed a separate opinion, did not say that other
cases were being overruled. He objected, essentially, to their reexamination. He said: "The case presents no debatable question as
to the jurisdiction of the district court. A statement of the facts
.alleged conclusively shows that in purpose, terms and effect the final
order constitutes not mere determination or declaration but affirmative commands. There is no occasion to review earlier decisions dealing with affirmative and negative administrative orders and obviously
none to overrule any of them or to repudiate or impair the doctrine
they establish." Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United States, 307
1U. S. 125, 146, 147-48. That the Rochester case did not overrule
Standard Oil is conclusively proved by the fact that this Court relied
on that case less than four years ago to affirm a judgment dismissing
a petition to review an order dismissing a claim for reparation. Ashland Coal & Ice Co. v. United States, 325 U. S 840.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

ministration, no disclosure of new materials for the proper
construction of an old statute. And the current of settled
judicial construction as well as administrative practice is
now reversed against the vigorous protest of the agency
charged with the administration of the law although only
a week ago we greatly relied on administrative practice
as the basis of judicial interpretation.
The result reached in the Standard Oil case was not
limited to controversies which did not involve the "primary jurisdiction" doctrine. The district court in that
case did assume arguendo that the issue involved nothing
which required administrative determination before it addressed itself to the basic jurisdictional question. See
Standard Oil Co. v. United. States, 41 F. 2d 836. On
appeal, howcver, this Court did not confine in any way the
bar imposed by § 9 to resort to a district court after an
unsuccessful resort to the Commission for reparations.
It read § 9 as it was written, as a provision for a choice of
tribunals so that, if damages are sought from the Commission and denied by it, the courts are closed to a further
consideration of such a claim.
The suggestion at this late date that the election so
specifically defined by § 9 applies only to those instances
in which no need for Commission determination of transportation issues may be required is completely dispelled
,-byBrady v. United States, 283 U. S. 804. In the Brady
case, damages were based on the claim that the carrier's
practices were unjust, unreasonable and unduly prejudicial-the exact grounds urged in this case. The Coinmission refused to award reparations in the amount
claimed by Brady and the shipper brought precisely the
samne kind of suit that the United States as shipper brought
here. Brady argued that since the controversy was within
the Commission's so-called. "primary jurisdiction," he
never had the choice of proceeding in court rather than

UNITED STATES v. I. C. C.
426

FRANKFURTER,

L,., dissenting.

going to the Commission. The district court dismissed
his suit for want of jurisdiction to review the action of the
Commission and this Court sustained that denial of jurisdiction. It did so on the basis of the Standard Oil decision which had been rendered a month before, for the
Standard Oil case, as did the Brady case, and as does this
case, involved questions which, as such, required preliminary, Commission determination.
The scope of the Standard Oil and Brady cases is made
unambiguously clear by reliance on them for the decision
in Allison & Co. v. United States, 296 U. S. 546, 664, and
Ashland Coal & Ice Co. v. United States, 325 U. S. 840.
In each case issues were involved which indubitably fell
under the requirement of the "primary jurisdiction" doctrine. In each of these cases the shipper relied on the
claim that his case was distinguishable from the Standard Oil and the Brady cases. The same distinctions which
are now advanced by the Government were then advanced
by the shipper but resisted by the Government. The
Government then rightly insisted that the Standard Oil
and the Brady cases could not be restricted to situations where the "primary jurisdiction" doctrine was inoperative and that the decision in those cases-that § 9
is unqualified in -precluding resort to judicial review in
all cases where damages had first been denied by the
Commission-was compelled by a proper construction
of § 9. This position of the Government was considered
so incontestable that the Court deemed oral argument
needless and granted the Government's motion to affirm.
The Government's interest has changed, but not the force
of its position when it was without self-interest.
I would affirm.

