YOUNG v. RAGEN.
Syllabus.

YOUNG v. RAGEN, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF RANDOLPH COUNTY,
ILLINOIS.

No. 50.

Argued November 17, 1948.--Decided June 6, 1949.

1. Convicted in an Illinois circuit court and sentenced to prison,
petitioner applied to the same court for habeas corpus, claiming
denial of due process under the Fourteenth Amendment. His
petition was denied without a hearing on the ground that it was
"insufficient in law and substance." On review here, the State
Attorney General conceded that the petition raised substantial
federal questions; argued that habeas corpus was not an appropriate remedy under state law when the petition was denied;
but admitted that it probably is an appropriate remedy under
"announcements" contained in subsequent decisions of the Illinois
Supreme Court, though other Illinois trial courts have. continued
to deny habeas corpus on procedural grounds. Held.: The order
denying habeas corpus is vacated and the cause is remanded for
consideration of the'present applicability of that remedy in the
light of the State Supreme Court's "announcement" in People v.
Loftus, 400 Il. 432, 81 N. E. 2d 495, and other relevant Illinois
decisions. Pp. 236-240.
(a) More than a question of state procedure is involved when
a state court of last resort closes the door to any consideration.
of a claim of denial:of a federal right. P. 238.
(b) the doctrine that federal courts will not grant habeas corpus
to prisoners under judgments of state courts until all state remedies
have been exhausted, Ex parte Hawk, 321 U. S. 114, 28 U. S. C.
ยง 2254, presupposes the existence of some adequate remedy under
state law. Pp. 238-239.
*Together with No. 47, Misc., Evans v. Nierstheimer, Warden,
on petition for certiorari to the Circuit Court of St. Clair County,
Illinois; No. 106, Misc., Willis v. Ragen, Warden, No. 109, Misc.,
Thompson v. Ragen, Warden, No. 184, MXisc., Lewis v. Ragen,
Warden, and No. 372, Misc., Sherman v. Ragen, .Warden, et al.,
All'on petition for certiorari to the Criminal Court of Cook County,
Illinois; No. 760, Smith v. Ragen, Warden, on certiorari to the'Circuit
Court of Will-County, Illinois; and No. 374, Misc., Banks v. Ragen,
Warden, on petition for certiorari to the Circuit Court of Will County,
Illinois.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opiniom of the Court.

337 U. S.

2. The orders in seven other cases in which Illinois courts had denied
habeas corpus without hearings are likewise vacated and remanded
for similar consideration. P. 240.
Orders vacated and causes remanded.

In No. 50, an Illinois trial court.denied without a hearing a petition for habeas corpus raising substantial questions under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. This Court granted certiorari. 334 U. S.
810. It also granted certiorari in No. 760 (336 U. S.
966), and now grants certiorari in the six other cases.
Orders vacated and causes remanded, p. 240.
Edward H. Levi argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner in No. 50.
William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, argued the cause for respondent in No. 50. With
him on the brief were George F. Barrett, then Attorney
General, Raymond S. Sarnow and James C. Murray, Assistant Attorneys General.
Petitioners pro se in Misc. Nos. 47, 106, 109, 184, 372
and 374.
Herbert A. Friedlich, by appointment of the Court,,
for petitioner in No. 760.
Ivan A. Elliott, Attorney General of Illinois, and William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General, were on the
briefs for respondent in Misc. Nos. 106, 109 and 184, and
No. 760. With them on the brief in No. 760 were James
C. Murray and Raymond S, Sarnow.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON delivered the opinion of

thp Court.
We are once again faced with the recurring problem
of determining what, if any, is the appropriate post-trial
procedure in Illinois by which claims of infringement of
federal rights may be raised. See Woods v. NierSthezmer,

YOUNG v. RAGEN.
235

Opinion of the Court.

"328 U. S. 211; Marino v. Ragen, 332 U. S. 561; Loftus
v. Illinois, 334 U. S. 804. In 1946, petitioner pleaded
guilty to an indictment charging' him with having committed burglary and larceny and was sentenced to five
to seven years imprisonment. A year later he filed a
petition for a writ of habeas corpus in the Circuit Court
of Randolph County, Illinois, the sentencing court, containing allegations which, if true, raise substantial questions under the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The Attorney General of Illinois concedes
that petitioner is entitled to a hearing into the truth or
falsity of the charges. The court to which the petition
for a writ of habeas corpus was directed denied the petition without holding a hearing, however, for the reason
that it "is insufficient in law and substance." We granted
the petition for. a writ of certiorari, 334 U. S. 810, to
consider the question thus presented.
The Attorney General explains the circuit court's denial
of the petition for the, Writ as based upon state procedural
grounds: that habeas.corpus was not an appropriate remedy for the relief of denials of due process. He contends,
however, that While the circuit court was correct in its
interpretation of Illinois law when it denied the petition,
certain statements in the Illinois Supreme Court's opinions in People v. Loftus, 400 Ill. 432, 81 N..E. 2d 495;
People v. Shofiner, 400 1Ill. 174, 79 NE.
- 2d 200; and,
People v. Wilson,: 399 Ill. 437, 78 N. E. 2d 514, all of
which were handed down subsequent to the circuit court's
denial of relief, strongly indicate that habeas'corpus
would now be the appropriate Illinois procedure in a case
such as' the one before us. His contention is, in other
words, that while the petition for habeas corpus was properly denied when acted upon below, the decisions just
cited probably broaden the scope of habeas corpus in
Illinois, so that a denial of a hearing would be erroneous
if the petition were again presented to the circfiit court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

The situation is further complicated, however, by the
fact that many circuit courts, whose decisions upon habeas
corpus are unreviewable by the state supreme court under
Illinois law, have continued to deny petitions for habeas
corpus on procedural grounds since the supreme court's
"announcement" in People v. Loftus, supra. The Attorney General's position concerning these denials, as we
understand it, is that these decisions may be wrong, depending upon Whether his interpretation of the Loftus
"announcement" is the correct one, but that whether
right or wrong, they are decisions solely upon a question
of Illinois procedural law and thus do not warrant invocation of the jurisdiction of this Court.
Of course we do not review state decisions which rest
upon adequate nonfederal grounds, and of course Illinois
may choose the procedure it deems appropriate for the
vindication of federal rights. Loftus v. Illinois, supra.
But it is not simply a question of state procedure when a
state court of last resort closes the door to any consideration of a claim of denial of a federal right. And that
is the effect of the denials of habeas corpus in a number
of cases now before this Court, for in none of the cases
does the Attorney General suggest that either of the
other two Illinois post-trial remedies, writ of error and
coram nobis, is appropriate. Unless habeas corpus is
available, therefore, we are led to believe that Illinois
offers no post-trial remedy in cases of this kind. The
doctrine of exhaustion of state remedies, to which this
Court has required the scrupulous adherence of all federal
courts, see Ex parte Hawk, 321 U. S. 1141 and cases
*'Existing.law as declared by Ex parte Hawk was made a part of
the statute by-the new Jidicial-Code, 28 U. S. C. ยง2254, which
provides:
"An application for a writ- of habeas corpus in behalf of a person
in custody pursuant to the judgment of a State court shall' not be
granted unless it appears that'the applicant has exhausted the reme-

YOUNG v. RAGEN.
235

Opinion of the Court.

cited, presupposes that some adequate.state remedy exists. We recognize the. difficulties with which the Illinois
Supreme Court is faced in adapting available state procedures to the requirement that prisoners be given some
clearly defined method by which they may raise claims
of denial of federal rights. Nevertheless, that requirement must be met. If there is now no,post-trial pro-:
cedure by which federal rights may be vindicated, in
Illinois, we wish to be advised of that fact upon rema'nd
of this case.
Seven other petitions for certiorari which raise substantial questions under the due-process clause of'the
Fourteenth Amendment are now before.this Court following denials of habeas corpus by Illinois circuit courts
or the Criminal Court of Cook.County. . In none of these
cases was a hearing held or the petitioner, permitted to
submit proof of the truth of his allegations. In three
instances, the denial of habeas corpus occurred prior to
the supreme court's "announcement" in People v: Loftus,
supra, as was true in the case of Young. A similar disposition of these petitions is therefore required.
Four petitions for certiorari involve denials of habeas
corpus subsequent to tfie' L'oftus "announcement." It
may well be that these decisions represent the opinion
of four Illinois circuit judges that habeas corpus is not
an appropriate renedy under Illinois law despite the
Loftus opinion. Out of an abundance of caution, we have
concluded, however, that these cases should also be redies available in the courts of the State, or that there is either an.
.absence of avail*..ble State corrective process or the existence of circumstances rendering such process ineffective to protect the rights
of the prisoner.
"An applicant shall not be deemed to have exhausted the remedies
available in the courts of the State, within the meaning of this section,
if he has the right under the law of the State to raise, by an3- available
procedure, the question presented."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

manded to the state courts, since it is possible that the
Loftus "announcement" was not brought to their attention or its possible significance pointed out. As in the
other cases, we wish to be advised, if a hearing is again
denied, whether the court is of the opinion that habeas
corpus is not an appropriate remedy in Illinois in cases
raising questions under the due-process clause of the
Fourteenth Anmendment.
Accordingly, the order denying the petition for a writ
of habeas corpus in No. 50, Young v. Ragen, is vacated
and the cause remanded for consideration of the present
availability of habeas corpus in the light of the State Supreme Court's "announcement" in People v. Loftus, supra,
and other relevant Illinois decisions. The petitions for
certiorari in No. 47, Misc., Evans v. Nierstheimer; in No.
106, Misc., -Willisv. Ragen;'iir No. 109, Misc., Thompson
v. Ragen; inNo. 184, Misc., Lewis v. Ragen; in No. 372,
Misc., Sherman v. Ragen et al.; and in No. 374, Misc.,
Banks v. Ragen, are granted. The orders denying petitions for writs of habeas corpus in these cases, together.
with that in No. 760, Smith v. Ragen, are vacated and
the.causes remanded for similar consideration,
Orderswill be entered accordingly.

2

Certiorari granted, 336 U. S. 966.

(Docketed as No. 265, 'Misc.)

