WOODS v. INTERSTATE REALTY CO.

535

Opinion of the Court.

WOODS v. INTERSTATE REALTY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 465.

Argued March 30-31, 1949.-Decided June 20, 1949.

In an action brought by a foreign corporation in a Federal District
Court solely on grounds of diversity of citizenship to recover a
broker's commission for the sale of real estate in the State, defendant moved for summary judgment on the ground that plaintiff
had not qualified to do business in the State under a state statute
which the Court of Appeals construed as not making the contract
void but only unenforcible in the state courts. Held: The motion
for summary judgment was properly granted. Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64. Pp.- 535--538.
170 F. 2d 694, reversed.

Having jurisdiction solely on grounds of diversity- of

citizenship, a Federal District Court granted a defendant's
motion for summary judgment in a suit to recover a
broker's commission, 'on the ground that the plaintiff, a
foreign corporation, had not qualified to do business in
the State as required by state law. The Court of Appeals
reversed 168 F. 2d 701; granted rehearifig, 170 F. 2d 74;
and reaffirmed its reversal, 170 F. 2d 694. This Court
granted certiorari. 336 U. S. 909. Reversed, p. 538.
P. H. Eag&r, Jr. argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were William H. Watkins and Thomas
H. Watkins.
John A. Osoinach and Phil Stone argued the cause for
respondent. Mr. Osoinach also filed a brief.
Opinion of the Court by MR.
nounced by MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS, :an-

JUSTICE REED.

This case was brought in the District Court for Mississippi on the grounds of diversity of citizenship. Respondent, a Tennessee corporation, sued petitioner, a

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion. of the Court.

337 U. S.

resident of Mississippi, for a broker's commission alleged to be due for the sale of real estate of petitioner
in Mississippi. The District Court found on motion for
summary judgment that the contract was void under
Mississippi law, since respondent was doing business in
Mississippi without qualifying under a Mississippi statute.' It therefore dismissed the complaint with prejudice.
The. Court of Appeals reversed. It reviewed the Mississippi decisions under the Mississippi statute and concluded that the contract was not void but only unenforcible in -the Mississippi courts. It held in reliance on
Dqvid Lupton's Sons Co. v. Automobile Club, 225 U. S.
489, that the fact that respondent could not sue in the
Mississippi courts did not close the doors of the federal
court sitting in that State. Accordingly it reversed the
judgment, of the District Court. 168 F. 2d 701. It
granted rehearing, 170 F.-2d 74, and reaffirmed its reversal,
170 F. 2d 694.
The case is here on a petition for writ of certiorari which
we granted because of the seeming conflict of that holding with our, recent ruling in Angel v. Bullington, 330
U. S. 183.
If the- Lupton's Sons case controls, it is clear that the
Court of Appeals was right in allowing the action to be
maintained in the federal court. In that case. a New
York statute provided that no foreign corporation could
"maintain any action in this state" without a certificate.
that it had qualified to do business there. The Court
held that a contract on which the corporation could not
1 Miss.,

Code 1942,' ยง 5319, requires .a foreign corporntion doing

business in the State to file a written power of attorney designating
an agent on whom. service of process may be had. It also provides,

"Any foreign corporation failing to comply. with the above provisions
shall not be permitted to bring or maintain any action or suit in
any of the courts of this state."

WOODS v. INTERSTATE REALTY CO.
535

537

Opinion of the Court.

sue .in the courts of New York by reason of that statute
nevertheless could be enforced in the federal court in a
diversity suit. The Court said, 225 U. S. p. 500,
"The State could not prescribe the qualifications
of suitors in the courts of the United States, and
could not deprive of their privileges those who were
entitled under the Constitution and laws of the
United States to resort to the Federal courts for the
enforcement of a valid contract."
We said in Angel v. Bullington that the case of Lupton's
Sons had become "obsolete" insofar as it was "based on a
view of diversity jurisdiction which came to an end with
Erie Railroad v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64." 330 U. S.
p. 192. Bullington had sued Angel in a North Carolina
court for a deficiency judgment on the sale of realty
under a deed of trust. The Supreme Court of North
Carolina dismissed the action because of a North Carolina statute which disallowed a deficiency judgment in
such a case and which the North Carolina Supreme Court
construed to be "a limitation of the jurisdiction of the
courts of this State." 220 N. C. 18, 20, 16 S. E. 2d 411,
412. Thereafter Bullington sued in the federal court of
North Carolina by reason of diversity of citizenship. We
held that that suit could not be maintained because
(1) the prior suit was res judicata; and (2) the p,_ licy
of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins precluded maintenance in
the federal court in diversity cases of suits to which the
State had closed its courts.
The Court of Appeals concluded that the latter reason
was argumentatory, the real basis of the decision being
that Bullington was denied recovery on the doctrine of
res judicata. But where a decision rests on two or more
-grounds, none can be relegated to the category of obiter
dictum. United States v. Title Ins. Co., 265 U. S. 472,
486; Massachusetts V. United States, 333 U. S. 611, 623.

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,.

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

Angel v. Bullington in its alternative ground followed
the viewof Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, 3.26 U. S.99, 108,
that for purposes of diversity jurisdiction a federal court
is, "'in effect, only another court of the State . . . ." In
that case we required the federal court in a diversity case
to apply the statute of limitations of the State in equity
actions and thus to follow local law; as had previously
been done in cases involving burden of proof (Cities
Service Co. v. Dunlap, 308 U. S. 208; cf. Stoner v. New
York Life Ins. Co., 311 U. S. 464); contributory negligence (Palmer v. Hoffman, 318 U. S.109, 117); conflict
of laws (Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Co., 313 U. S.487; Griffin
v. McCoach, 313 U. S. 498); and accrual of the cause of
action (West v. American Tel. & T. Co., 311 U. S.223).
The York case was premised on the theory that a right
which local law creates but which it does not supply with
a remedy is no right at all for purposes of enforcement in
a federal court in a diversity case; that where in such
cases one is barred from recovery in the state court, he
should likewise be barred in the federal court. The contrary result would create discriminations against citizens
of the State in favor of those authorized to invoke the
diversity jurisdiction of the federal courts. It was that
element of discrimination that Erie R. Co. V. Tompkins
was designed to eliminate.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE dissents. See his dissenting
*opinion in Nos. 442 and 512, Cohen v. Beneficial Industrial Loan Corp., post, p. 557.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, dissenting.

Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S.64, required federal
courts in*diversity cases to apply state decisional -law as
the Rules of Decision Act required them to apply state
statutes.

WOODS v. INTERSTATE 'REALTY CO.
535

JACKSON,.

539

J., dissenting.

That is what the Court of Appeals tried to do in this
case. The State of Mississippi has a statute which says
that if a corporation does not qualify to do business
within the State it "shall not be permitted to bring or
maintain any action or suit in any of the courts of this
state."' (Emphasis supplied.). The Court of Appeals
reviewed state court decisions, some of which are not free
from ambiguity, and found that the law of Mississippi
intends to gb no farther than to withhOld the aidof statemaintained courts from a noncomplying eorporation and
that the state law does not deprive contracts of their
validity or intend to foreclose foreign corporations from
resort to federal courts or to any self-enforcing remedies
they may have.
This Court refuses to give the statute that limited
effect. I understand it to rule that Mississippi cannot
enact a law closing its own courts to such foreign corporations without also closing the federal courts. In this we
seem to be doing the very thing we profess to avoid; that
is, giving the state law a different meaning in federal
court than the state courts have given it.
The Mississippi statute follows a pattern general among
the states in requiring qualification and payment of fees
by foreign corporations. State courts have generally held
such Acts to do no more than to withhold state help from
the noncomplying corporation but to leave their rights
otherwise unimpaired. This interpretation left such corporations a basis, on which to get the help of any other
court-federal or state---that could otherwise take juri sdiction, and free to resort to pledged property, offset and
various other methods of self-help.
The state statute as *now.interpreted by this Court
is a harsh, capricious and vindictive measure. It either
refuses to entertain. a cause of action, not impaired by
state- law, or it holds it invalid with unknown effects on

OCTOBER TERM, 194.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

337 U. S.

amounts already collected. In either case the amount
of this punishment bears no relation to the amount of
wrong done the State in failure to qu'alify and pay its
taxes. The penalty thus suffered does not go to the
State, which sustained the injury, but results in unjust
enrichment of the debtor, who has suffered no injury
from the creditors' default in qualification. If the state
court had held its statute to have this effect, I should
agree that federal courts should so apply it; but the whole
basis of our decision is contrary to that of the state
courts.
I think the Court's action in refusing to accept the
state court's determination of the effect of its own statute
is a perversion of the Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins doctrine.
I would affirm the court below.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

in this opinion.

and MR. JUSTICE BURTON join

