GIBBS v. BURKE.

773

Syllabus.

GIBBS v. BURKE, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 418.

Argued April 21-22, 1949.-Decided June 27, 1949.

Petitioner, a man in his thirties, was tried and convicted in a PennsylVania state court for larceny, and was sentenced to imprisonment for 2/2 to 5 years. He conducted his own defense, appointment of counsel having been neither requested by petitioner nor
offered by the court. At the trial, considerable hearsay and otherwise incompetent evidence prejudicial to petitioner was admitted;
the prosecuting witness, being recalled for further cross-examination, was made a witness for petitioner, to the latter's detriment;
petitioner was prevented from proving a fact clearly relevant to
his defense; and the trial judge, advising petitioner of his privilege
against self-incrimination, made reference in the presence of the
jury to petitioner's criminal record. - Petitioner's subsequent application to the State Supreme Court for a writ of habeas corpus,
claiming a denial of fderal constitutional right on his trial, was
denied. Held:
1. The federal question was adequately raised, and the case is
properly considered here on its merits. P. 779.
(a) Reliance on the Sixth rather than the Fourteenth Amendment in the habeas corpus petition was not fatal, since meticulousness in procedural allegations is not essential in a habeas corpus
proceeding. P. 779.
(b) It appears that habeas corpus was a proper method of
testing the constitutionality of the conviction and that it was
within the original jurisdiction of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court.
P. 779.
2. The facts of the case, particularly the occurrences at the trial,
sufficiently show that petitioner was handicapped by lack of counsel
to such an extent that he was denied a fair trial contrary to the
due process clause of the Fburteenth Amendment. Pp. 774-778,
780-782.
Reversed.

The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in an original
proceeding, denied petitioner's application for a writ of

habeas corpus. This Court grantel certiorari, 335 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

867, and appointed a member of the Bar of this Court
to serve as counsel for the petitioner. 335 U. S. 895.
Reversed and remanded, p. 782.
Frederick Bernays Wiener, acting under an assignment by the Court, argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief was Alvin O. West.
Karl W. Johnson argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was C. William Kraft, Jr.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case raises the question whether, under the circumstances of petitioner's trial for larceny in a state court
without counsel, Pennsylvania deprived him of a federal
constitutional right protected by the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment'
Petitioner, a man in his-thirties, was arrested in Pennsylvania in 1947 for the larceny-6f certain clothing and
other personal effects allegedly belonging to one James
Blades. Upon the return of an indictment he pleaded
not guilty, was tried before a jury which found him guilty,
and was sentenced to a term of two and one-half to five
years in the penitentiary. The record shows neither a
request for counsel by the petitioner nor an offer of
counsel by the court. Petitioner, conducted his own
defense.
On May 24, 1948, Gibbs filed in the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania a petition for habeas corpus in which
he alleged his arrest, trial, conviction and sentence, and
in which he also stated that he "was denied counsel and
through ignorance of law and fact was forced 'to act as
his own couisel" and that he "was denied his constitutional Rights as set forth in the. Ten Original Amendments, Article VI." Upon the issuance of a rule to show
cause, respondent answered, admitting the formal allega-

GIBBS v. BURKE.
773

Opinion of the Court.

tions and the fact of trial and sentence, but alleging the
following concerning the denial of right to counsel: "The
transcript of the notes of testimony taken in the matter
does not disclose that the relator demanded counsel nor
requested that counsel be appointed to represent him ...
It is also averred by way of answer that the relator's
examination of witnesses and questions asked during the
course of the trial fully disclosed his familiarity with legal
process in the criminal courts." The answer also attached a transcript of the proceedings at the trial and a
transcript of petitioner's criminal record. It showed
eight convictions and nine acquittals, discharges, and no
true bills. On July 6, 1948, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania denied the writ. As the allegations of the petition raised grave doubts as to whether petitioner had
been accorded due process in his trial, we granted the
motion for leave to 'proceed in forma pauperis and the
petition for a writ of certiorari. 335 U. S. 867.
James Blades, the prosecuting witness, Mrs. Lafield,
his mother, Constable Fleming, the arresting officer, and
James Silverstein, a secondhand dealer, testified for the
state. Briefly summarized, their testimony tended to
prove that petitioner came to Blades' home on the morning of the alleged theft, looked in Blades' room, where
the stolen articles were in plain view, and, finding 'Blades
absent, departed. When Blades returned home that day
he noticed that the articles were missing from his room
and, upon learning from his mother that Gibbs had been
there, he notified the police. He and Constable Fleming
found some of the missing articles in a pawnshop and
found the petitioner in a taproom wearing Blades' hat
and watch. Later Blades' wallet was found in the jail
cell in which petitioner was incarcerated. Silverstein, the
secondhand dealer in the pawnshop, testified that Gibbs
had brought the missing clothing in and had sold them
to him.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

Petitioner, by means of cross-examination, sought to
establish that the articles had been taken, and some of
them sold, pursuant to an understanding between him
and Blades.
Several events occurring at the trial are pertinent to
petitioner's claim that failure to appoint counsel violated
the Federal Constitution. (1) Considerable inadmissible
hearsay and otherwise incompetent evidence was allowed
to go in without objection by Gibbs.' (2) When petitioner recalled the prosecuting witness Blades for further
cross-examination, the trial judge accepted the prosecutor's suggestion and made Blades the petitioner's witness for the purpose of the unfavorable testimony then
elicited.' Thus he made this testimony binding on the
'Blades: "Then she [witness's mother] tells me about him [petitioner] being there."
Constable Fleming: "I got a telephone call from the Chief of
Police, Mr. Miller, to go up to Mrs. Lafield's to investigate a robbery
that occurred there ..
I asked Jim, where was the suitcase.
He said, the suitcase was by the bed ......

"I went to three pawnshops and they gave me a description of
Edward Gibbs ......

The District Attorney's unsworn offer of proof concerning the
missing articles was as follows:
"Mr. Johnson: I want to offer into evidence the wallet, the watch,
which were identified and found-The watch was found in the possession of the defendant. This wallet, containing the papers of Mr.
Blades, which was found in the jail cell that had been occupied by
the defendant.
"The Court: What about the radio?
"Mr. Johnson: It has been recovered and returned to the owner."
2"The Defendant: May I call the prosecutor [Blades] back on
the staid?
"Mr. Johnson: He desires to call the prosecutor as his witness."
In his charge to the jury the judge said with reference to this
episode:
"As he has presented no evidence of his own, except having called
Mr. Blades and certain questions were asked Mr. Blades and certain
answers made; that is the only evidence he presented."

GIBBS v. BURKE.
773

Opinion of the Court.

petitioner although the Pennsylvania rule would seem to
be that an adverse witness can be so examined and yet
remain the witness of the opposing party.' (3) Although,
as we have already noted, petitioner attempted to defend
himself on the ground that he took and sold the articles
pursuant to an agreement with the prosecuting witness,
he was prevented from proving a fact clearly relevant to
that defense,' i. e., that Blades had previously made a
baseless criminal charge against him under similar circumstances.'
(4) The trial judge also advised petitioner
in the presence of the jury, so far as the record shows,
as to his opportunity to avail himself of the privilege
against self-incrimination which was his under Pennsylvania law. In doing so he made reference to possible.
past convictions.' So to require him to claim his con3 Commonwealth

v. Reeves, 267 Pa. 361, 362-363, 110 A. 158, 159;

Commonwealth v. Eisenhower, 181 Pa. 470, 476, 37 A. 521, 522.
4Commonwealth
v. Farrell, 187 Pa. 408, 423-24, 41 A. 382, 384;
see 3 Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed., 1940) ยง 950.
5
"Q. Last fall, last year, didn't you wreck your own automobile
r-d enter a complaint that I stole your car and wrecked it?
"Mr. Johnson: Objected to.
"The Court: Objection sustained. It has nothing to do with this
case.
"The Defendant: All right."
6 "The Court: Now then, Gibbs, you may, if you want to, take
the stand and say anything you want to say, but I warn you if you
do, if 'you have any record of any prior conviction, any felonies or
any misdemeanors in the nature of what we call crimen falsi, the
commonwealth may offer the record of any convictions you may
have had. I am warning you in advance. You may, however, take.
the stand and testify or you may refuse to take the stand and if
you do refuse to take the stand, the commonwealth and the court
may not comment unfavorably about your failure t4 take the stand
and testify. I want to warn you fully before ydu do take the
stand.
"Do you want to take the stand?
"The Defendant: No, I don't have anything to say in court."

778

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

stitutional safeguard in the presence of the jury was,
petitioner claims; a violation of Pennsylvania law. Cf.
Philadelphiav. Cline, 158 Pa. Super. 179, 185, 44 A. 2d
610, 613; Commonwealth v. Valeroso, 273 Pa. 213, 116 A.
828. Respondent does not claim otherwise. The information given by the judge as to past convictions could
have been given by a lawyer to the petitioner beyond
the jjwy's hearing. (5) Finally, when sentencing petitioner, the judge used language which, it is claimed,
evinced a hostile and thoroughly unjudicial attitude.7
7

"By the Court:

"Q. Gibbs, do you have anything to say before we impose sentence?

"A. No, I guess not.
"Q. How long have you been in jail?
"A. Two months and a half.
"Q.-What is the matter with you; why can't you keep out of
trouble?
"A. I don't know, sir.
"Q. Yot" don't know why you can't do it? What do you do, get
drunk or something, or are you just ornery?
"Mr. Johnson: Don't you think this man would be better if he
were sent to the Eastern Penitentiary?
"By the Court:
"Q. Do you realize 'you can be put away for the rest of your life?
"A. (No answer.)
"The Court: It is a wonder the district attorney doesn't indict
you for it. You can be indicted.
"Mr. Johnson: If he comes back again, I will take it as my personal
job to indict him.
"The Court: 'In 1928 you were found guilty of burglary, larceny,
receiving stolen goods, before Judge Fronefield--one to two years,
county jail. In 1931, plead guilty to larcen--$100 fine and costs,
one to two years, Judge MacDade. 1932 found guilty of larceny
and receiving stolen goods, $50 fine and costs, six months to three
years in county jail, Judge Morrow, That is three. 1934 larceny,
found guilty, $100 fine and costs, six months to three years in county
jail; sentenced to one year in county jail for violation of parole;
Judge Fronefield. That is four. 1937, receiving stolen goods, $10

GIBBS v. BURKE.
773

Opinion of the Court.

Two procedural points ,,require but brief attention.
The federal question was adequately if inartistically raised
in the petition for a writ of 4abeas-corpus. We consider insignificant under these circunxstances the :fact
that petitioner cited the Sixth rather than the tourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.8 Meticulous insistence upon regularity in procedural allegations is foreign to the purpose of habeas corpus.9 The state does
not contest the propriety of a consideration of the case
on its merits.10 Thus it apparently concedes that habeas
corpus was a proper method of testing he constitutionality of the conviction and that it was wi ;hin the original
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Ptnnsylvania.11
fine and costs, one to three years county jail, sentence suspended r
Judge MacDade. That is five. 1938, larceny; found guilty, oiie
and half to three years county jail, Judge Crichton. I don't believe
there is anyone you missed up to now. You were before me ayea
ago. No, just last March. You beat that, not guilty. Now, here
you are the seventh time.
"All I can do is give him two and a half to ve years, if you don't 1
want to indict these fourth offenders.
"Sentence'
"On No. 417 September Sessions 1947, the sentence of the court
is that you undergo imprisonment in the Eastem State Penitentiary
at solitary confinement and hard labor for two and a half to fiv
years and stand committed until this sentence be complied withi
If I could give you life, I would do it..
"Take him away."
8
Cf. Price v. Johnston, 334 U. S. 266, 292, and cases there citd
9 Tomkins v. Missouri, 323 U. S. 485,487.
20 Respondent's brief states: "The issue now to be determined is
whether he was properly charged with the offense, tried, convicted ,
and sentenced, under the laws of th Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
and the Constitution of the United States, more particularly the
portion of the Fourteenth Amendment ....
"
1
See Commonwealth ex rel. McGlinn v. Smith, 344 Pa. 41, 24 A. 2d
1; Commonwealth ex tel. Penland v. Ashe, 341 Pa. 337, J. A 2d 4A4

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

Since it is clear that a failure to request counsel does
not constitute a waiver when the defendant does not know
of his right to counsel, Uveges v. Pennsylvania,335 U. S.
437, we proceed to the merits. We consider this case on
the theory upheld in Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S. 455, that the
Constitution does not guarantee to every person charged
with a serious crime in a state court the right to the
assistance of counsel regardless of the circumstances.
Betts v. Brady rejected the contention that the Fourteenth Amendment automatically afforded such protection. In so doing, however,, it did not, of course, hold
or intimate that counsel was never required in noncapital
cases in state courts in order to satisfy the necessity for
basic fairness which is formulated in that Amendment.
There have been made to this Court without avail
arguments based on the long practice as to counsel in
state courts to convince us that under the Fourteenth
Amendment a state may refuse to furnish counsel even
when needed by the accused in serious felonies other
than capital. Our decisions have been that where the
ignorance, youth, or other incapacity of the defendant
made a trial without counsel unfair, the defendant is
deprived of his liberty contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. " Counsel necessary, for his adequate defense would
be lacking.
Respondent' argues that to hold to such precedents
leaves the state prosecuting authorities uncertain as to
whether to offer counsel to all accused who are without
adequate funds and under serious charges in state courts.
We cannot offer a paihcea for the difficulty. Such an
interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment would be
an unwarranted federal intrusion into state control of
12

Uveges v. Pennsylvania,335 U. S. 437, 441, and cases there cited.

GIBBS v. BURKE.
773

Opinion of the Court.

its criminal procedure. The due process clause is not
susceptible of reduction to a mathematical formula."
Furthermore, the fair conduct of a trial depends largely
on the wisdom and understanding of the trial judge.
He knows the essentials of a fair trial. The primary duty
falls on him to determine the accused's need of counsel at
arraignment and during trial. He may guide a defendant
without a lawyer past the errors that make trials unfair.
Cf. Uveges v. Pennsylvania, supra. Failure to protect
properly the rights of one accused of serious offenses is
unusual. Obviously a fair trial test necessitates an appraisal before and during the trial of the facts of each
case to determine whether the need for counsel is so
great that the deprivation of the right to counsel worksa
fundamental unfairness. The recent discussion of the
problem in Uveges v. Pennsylvania, supra, makes further
elaboration unnecessary. We think that the facts of this
case, particularly the events occurring at the trial, reveal,
in the light of that opinion and the precedents there cited,
that petitioner was handicapped by lack of counsel to
such an extent that his constitutional right to a fair trial
was denied. This case is of the type referred to in Betts
v. Brady, supra, at 473, as lacking fundamental fairness
because neither counsel nor adequate judicial guidance or
protection was furnished at the trial.
A defendant who pleads'not guilty and elects to go
to trial is usually more in -heed of the assistance of a
lawyer than is one who -pIeads guilty. The record in
this case evidences petitioner's helplessness, without counsel and without more assistance from the judge, in defending himself against this charge of larceny. We take no
note of the tone of the comments at the time of the
13 Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S. 455; Bute v. Illinois, 333 U. S. 640,
676; Townsend v. Burke, 334 U. S. 736, 739.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

337 U. S.

sentence. The trial was over. The questionable issues
allowed to pass unnoticed as to procedure, evidence, privi-

lege, and instructions detailed in the first part of this
opinion demonstrate to us that petitioner did not have a
trial that measures up to the test of fairness prescribed by
the Fourteenth Amendment.
Reversed and remanded for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concur

in the judgment of the Court. They think that Betts
v. Brady should be overruled. If that case is to be followed, however, they agree with the Court's opinion
insofar as it holds that petitioner is entitled to relief
under the Betts v. Brady doctrine.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

cur in the result.

and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE con-

