115

SUPER TIRE ENGINEERING CO. v. McCORKLE
Syllabus

SUPER TIRE ENGINEERING CO.

McCORKLE

ET AL.

V.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT

No. 72-1554.

Argued January 15, 1974-Decided April 16, 1974

Workers engaged in an economic strike in New Jersey are eligible
for public assistance through state welfare programs. Petitioners,
employers whose plants were struck, brought this suit for injunctive and declaratoryp relief against such eligibility, claiming that
the regulations according benefits to striking workers were invalid
because they interfered with the federal labor policy of free
collective bargaining expressed in the Labor Management Relations Act and with other federal policy set forth in the Social
Security Act. Before the case was tried, the labor dispute was
settled and the strike ended. The District Court, rejecting the
respondent union's contention that the case had been mooted,
dismissed the cimplaint on the grounds that Congress was the
appropriate forum for the claim and that the challenged laws did
not violate the Supremacy Clause. The Court of Appeals
remanded the case with instructions to vacate and dismiss for
mootness. Held: To the extent that declaratoryrelief was sought,
the case-or-controversy requirement of Art. III, § 2, and the
Declaratory Judgment Act is completely satisfied. -Pp. 121-127.
(a) Even though the case for an injunction dissolved with the
settlement of the strike and the strikers' return to work, the
petitioners and respondent state officials may still retain sufficient
interests and injury to justify declaratory relief. Pp. 121-122.
(b) The challenged governmental action is not contingent upon
executive discretion and has not ceased, but is a fixed and definite
policy which, by its continuing presence, casts what may well be
a substantial adverse effect on petitioners' interests. Oil Workers
Unions v. Missouri, 361 U. S.363; Harris v. Battle, 348 U. S. 803,
distinguished. Pp. 122-125.
(c) If judicial review were conditioned on the existence of an
economic strike, this case most certainly would be of the type
presenting an issue "capable of repetition, yet evading review,"
Southern Pac. Terminal Co. v. ICC, 219 U. S.498, 515. It suffices
that the litigant show an immediate and definite governmental

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

action or policy that has adversely affected and continues to affect
a present interest, since to require the presence of an active labor
dispute would unduly tax the litigant by slighting claims of adverse
injury from actual or immediately threatened governmental action,
and since otherwise a state policy affecting a collective-bargaining
arrangement but not involving a fine or other penalty could be
only rarely adjudicated, and the purposes of the Declaratory
Judgment Act would be frustrated. Pp. 125-127.
469 F. 2d 911, reversed and remanded.
BLACKMUN,-- J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which
and MARSHALL, JJ., joined. STEWART,

DOUGLAS, BRENNAN; WHITE,

J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which BURGER, C. J., and POWELL
and REHNQUIST, JJ., joined, post, p. 127.

Lawrence M. Cohen argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs were Herbert G. Keene, Jr., and
James A. Young.

Stephen Skillman, First Assistant Attorney General of
New Jersey, argued the cause for respondents McCorkle

et al. With him on the briefs were George F. Kugler, Jr.,
former Attorney General, William F. Hyland, Attorney
General, and Jane Sommer and Paul N. Watter, Deputy

Attorneys General. Robert F. O'Brien argued the cause
and filed briefs for respondent Teamsters Local Union
No. 676.*

MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In New Jersey, workers engaged in an economic strike

are eligible for public assistance through state welfare
programs.

Employers whose plants were struck insti-

*Briefs of amici curiae were filed by Milton Smith, Gerard C.
Smetana, and Jerry Kronenberg for the Chamber of Commerce of
the United States, and by J. Albert Woll, Laurence Gold, and Thomaa
E. Harris for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of
Industrial Organizations.

SUPER TIRE ENGINEERING CO. v. McCORKLE
115

117

Opinion of the Court

tuted this suit for injunctive and declaratory relief against
such eligibility. Before the case was tried, the labor
dispute- was settled and the strike came to an end. The
question presented is whether a "case" or "controversy"
still exists, within the meaning of Art. III, § 2, of the
Constitution, and of the Declaratory Judgment Act, 28
U. S. C. §§ 2201-2202.
I
A collective-bargaining agreement between petitioners
Super Tire Engineering Company and Supercap Corporation, affiliated New Jersey corporations,' and Teamsters
Local Union No. 676, the certified collective-bargaining
representative for the two corporations' production and
maintenance employees, expired on May 14, 1971. Because a new agreement had not as yet been reached, the
employees promptly went out on strike. Some four weeks
later, with the strike continuing, the two corporations,
and their president and chief executive officer, filed the
present suit in the United States District Court for the
District of New Jersey against various New Jersey
officials.2
The complaint alleged that many of the striking employees had received and would continue to receive pub-.
Super Tire Engineering Company is engaged in the business of
truck tire sales and service and the manufacture and sale of industrial polyurethane tires and wheels. Supercap Corporation is
engaged in the business of truck tire recapping and repairing.
2 The named defendants were Lloyd W. McCorkle, Commissioner
of the Department of Institutions and Agencies of the State of
New Jersey; Irving J. Engelman, Director of the Division of Public
Welfare of the Department of Institutions and Agencies of the
State of New Jersey; Fred L. Streng, Director of the Camden
County, New Jersey, Welfare Board; and Juanita E. Dicks, Welfare
Director of the Municipal Welfare Department of the City of
Camden, New Jersey.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

lic assistance through two New Jersey public welfare
programs,' pursuant to regulations issued and administered by the named defendants. The petitioners sought
a declaration that these interpretive regulations,' accordThe General Public Assistance Law, N. J. Stat. Ann. § 44:8-107
et seq. (Supp. 1973-1974), a state program, and the Assistance for
Dependent Children Law (ADC), N. J. Stat. Ann. § 44:10-1 et seq.
(Supp. 1973-1974), a federal-state program created by § 402 of the
Social Security Act, as amended, 42 U. S. C. § 602.
Effective June 30, 1971, New Jersey elected no longer to participate in the unemployed parent segment of the AFDC program, and
enacted, in its place, the Assistance to Familie of the Working Poor
program, N. J. Stat. Ann. § 44:13-1 et seq. (Supp. 1973-1974).
4The Regulations (M. A. 1.006, revised Mar. 1957), issued by
the New Jersey Department of Institutions and Agencies under the
General Public Assistance Law, provided in pertinent part:
"A. Citation of Statute and Constitution
"Chapter 156, P. L. 1947 (R. S. 44:8-108) defines reimbursable
public assistance as 'assistance rendered to needy persons not otherwise provided for under the laws of this State, where such persons
are willing to work but are unable to secure employment due either
to physical disability or inability to find employment.'
"The Constitution of New Jersey 1947, Article I, paragraph 19,
guarantees that 'Persons in private employment shall have the
right to organize and bargain collectively.'
"B. Interpretation and Policy
"It may be inferred from the quoted section of the statute that
persons unwilling to work are ineligible for public assistance. However, for purposes of public administration, the phrase 'unwilling to
work' must be defined as objectively as possible.
The Constitutional guarantee of the 'right to organize and
bargain collectively' implies the right of the individual to participate
in a bona fide labor dispute as between the employer and the
collective bargaining unit by which the individual is represented.
Moreover, a 'strike,' when lawfully authorized and conducted, is
recognized as an inherent and lawful element of the process of
bargaining collectively and of resolving labor disputes. Accordingly, when an individual is participating in a lawful 'strike,' he

SUPER TIRE ENGINEERING CO. v. McCORKLE
115

119

Opinion of the Court

ing benefits to striking workers, were null and void because they constituted an interference with the federal
laboi policy of free collective bargaining expressed in the
Labor Management Relations Act, 1947, 29 U. S. C. § 141
et seq., and with other federal policy pronounced in provisions of the Social Security Act of 1935, viz., 42 U. S. C.
§§ 602 (a)(8)(C), 606 (e)(1), and 607 (b)(1)(B).2 The
petitioners also sought injunctive relief against the*New
Jersey welfare administrators' making public, funds available to labor union members engaged in the strike.
may not be considered merely because of. such participation, as
refusing to work without just cause.
"C. Regulations
"Based on the foregoing statement of interpretation and policy,
the following regulations are established:
"4. No individual shall be presumed to be unwilling to work,
or to be wrongfully refusing to accept suitable employment, merely
because he is participating in a lawful labor dispute.
"5. An individual who is participating in a lawful labor dispute,
and who is needy, has the same right to apply for public assistance,
for himself and his dependents, as any other individual who is
needy.
"6. In the case of an applicant for public assistance who is
participating in a lawful labor dispute, there shall be an investigation of need and other conditions of eligibility, and an evaluation
of income, and resources, in the same way and to the same extent as
in all other cases. In such instances, 'strike benefits' or other payments available to the individual from the labor union or other
source. shall be considered a resource and shAl be determined and
accounted for."
The record is not clear as to the eligibility of strikers under. New
Jersey's newly enacted program of Assistance to Families of the
Working Poor. Petitioners state that striking workers are eligible
for benefits under that program. Brief for Petitioners 4 n. 1. The
respcndents concede this, as "a matter of administrative application."
Tr. of Oral Arg. 46.
5
The complaint also alleged that the inclusion of striking workers
in these programs was contrary to New Jersey law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

With their complaint, the petitioners filed a motion
for a preliminary injunction. The supporting affidavit
by the individual petitioner recited the expiration of
.the collective-bargaining agreement, the failure of the
parties to reach a new agreement, the commencement
and continuation of the strike, the application by many
of the strikers for state welfare benefits, and their receipt
of such benefits from the beginning of the strike to the
date of the affidavit. The affiant further stated that
the availability of these benefits interfered with and
infringed upon free collective bargaining as guaranteed
by Congress and "hardened the resolve of the said strikers to remain out of work in support of their bargaining
demands," App. 32, and, in addition, that
"the current strike will undoubtedly be of longer
duration than would have otherwise been the case;
that the impact of the grant of welfare benefits and
public assistance to the strikers involved has resulted in the State of New Jersey subsidizing one
party to the current labor dispute; and that such
subsidization by the State has resulted in upsetting
the economic balance between employer and employees otherwise obtained in such a labor dispute."
Ibid.
At the hearing held on June 24 on the motion for preliminary injunction, the union, now a respondent here,
was permitted to intervene. App. -37. Counsel for the
union contended that "this entire matter . . . has been
mooted" because "these employees voted to return to
work and are scheduled to return to work tomorrow morning." 6 App. 39. The District Court, nonetheless, proA All the strikers returned to work by Monday, June 28, 1971,
and normal operations at the corporate petitioners' plants were then
resumed.

SUPER TIRE ENGINEERING CO. v. McCORKLE
115

121

Opinion of the Court

ceeded to the merits of the dispute and, on the basis of
the holding in ITT Lamp Division v. Minter, 435 F. 2d
989 (CA1 1970), cert. denied, 402 U. S.933 (1971), ruled
that the appropriate forum for the petitioners' claim was
the Congress, and that the New Jersey practice of according aid to striking workers was not violative of the
Supremacy Clause of the Constitution. The court denied
the motion for preliminary injunction and dismissed the
complaint. App. 45-46. On appeal, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, by a divided vote,
did not reach the merits but remanded the case with
instructions to vacate and dismiss for mootness. 469 F.
2d 911, 922 (1972). We granted certiorari to consider
the mootness issue. 414 U. S.817 (1973).
II
The respondent union invites us to 'conclude that this
controversy between the petitioners and the State became
moot when the particular economic strike terminated
upon the execution of the new collective-bargaining
agreement and the return of the strikers to work in late
June. That conclusion, however, is appropriate with
respect to only one aspect of the lawsuit, that is, the
request for injunctive relief made in the context of official
state action during the pendency of the strike.
The petitioners here have sought, from the very
beginning, declaratory relief as well as an injunction.
Clearly, the District Court had "the duty to decide the
appropriateness and the merits of the declaratory request
irrespective of its conclusion as to the propriety of the issuance of the injunction." Zwickler v. Koota,389 U. S.241,
254 (1967) ; Roe v. Wade, 410 U. S. 113, 166 (1973) ; Steffel
v. Thompson, 415 U. S.452, 468-469 (1974). Thus, even
though the case for an injunction dissolved with the
subsequent settlement of the strike and the strikers'

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

return to wotk, the parties to the principal controversy,
that is, the corporate petitioners and the New Jersey
officials, may still retain sufficient interests and injury
as to justify the award of declaratory relief: The question is "whether the facts alleged, under all the circumstances, show that there is a substantial controversy,
between parties having adverse legal interests, of sufficient immediacy and reality to warrant the issuance of a
declaratory judgment." Maryland Casualty Co. V.
Pacific Coal & Oil Co., 312 U. S. 270, 273 (1941). And
since this case involves governmental action, 'we must
ponder the broader consideration whether the short-term
nature of that action makes the issues presented here
"capable of repetition, yet evading review," so that peti- tioners are adversely affected by government "without a
chance of redress." Southern Pac. Terminal Co. v.'
ICC, 219 U. S. 498, 515 (1911).
A. We hold that the facts here provide full and complete satisfaction of the. requirement of the Constitution's
Art. III, § 2, and the Declaratory Judgment Act, that
a case or controversy exist between the parties. Unlike
the situations that prevailed in Oil Workers Unions v.
Missouri, 361 U. S. 363 (1960), on which the Court
of Appeals' majority chiefly relied, and. in 'Harris v.
Battle, 348 U. S. '803 (1954), the challenged governmental activity in the present case is not contingent,
has not eVapotated or disappeared, and, by its continuing and brooding presence, casts what may well be a
substantial adverse effect on the interests of the petitioning parties.
In both. Harris and Oil Workers h state statute authorized the Governor to take immediate possession of
a public utility in the event of a strike or work stoppage
that interfered with the public interest. The seizure
was not automatic for every public utility labor dis-

SUPER TIRE ENGINEERING CO. v. McCORKLE
115

123

Opinion of the Court

pute. It took effect only upon the exercise of the Governor's discretion. In each case the Court held the
controversy to be moot because both the seizure and the
strike had terminated prior to the time the case reached
this Court. The governmental action challenged was
the authority to seize the public utility, and it was clear
that a seizure would not recur except in circumstances
where (a) there was another strike or stoppage, and
(b) in the judgment of the Governor, the public interest
required it. The question was thus posed in a situation
where the threat of governmental action was two steps
removed from reality. 'This made the recurrence of a
seizure so remote and speculative that there was no tangible prejudice to the existing interests of the parties and,
therefore, there was a "want of a subject matter" on which
any judgment of this Court could operate. Oil Workers,
361 U. S., at 371. This was particularly apparent in Oil
Workers because, although the union had sought both
declaratory and injunctive relief, the decision the Court
was asked to review "upheld only the validity of an injunction, an injunction that expired by its own terms
more than three years ago." Ibid.
The present case has a decidedly different posture.
As in Harris and Oil Workers, the strike here was settled
before the litigation reached this Court. But, unlike
those cases, the challenged governmental action has not
ceased. The New Jersey governmental action does not
rest on the distant contingencies of another strike and
the discretionary act of an official. Rather, New Jersey
has declared positively that able-bodied striking workers
who are engaged, .individually and collectively, in an
Although the threat of seizure*in Oil Workers constituted a far
more severe form of governmental action, going as it did to cripple
any strike, the features of that action were inexorably contingent,
serving to make it more remote and speculative.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

economic dispute with their employer are eligible for
economic benefits. This policy is fixed and definite. It
is not contingent upon executive discretion.'
Employees know that if they go out on strike, public
funds are available. The petitioners' claim is that this
eligibility affects the collective-bargaining relationship,
both in the context of a live labor dispute when a
collective-bargaining agreement is in process of formulation, and in the ongoing collective relationship, so
that the economic balance between labor and management, carefully formulated and preserved by Congress
in the federal labor statutes, is altered by the State's
beneficent policy toward strikers. It cannot be doubted
that the availability of state welfare assistance for
striking workers in New Jersey pervades every work
stoppage, affects every existing collective-bargaining
agreement, and is a factor lurking in the background of
every incipient labor contract. The question, of course,
is whether Congress, explicitly or implicitly, has ruled
out such assistance in its calculus of laws regulating
labor-management disputes. In this sense petitioners
allege a colorable claim of injury from an extant and
fixed policy directive of the State of New Jersey. That
claim deserves a hearing.
The decision in Bus Employees v. Missouri, 374 U. S.
74 (1963), is not to the contrary. In that case the
Court adjudicated the merits of the same statutory
scheme that had been challenged earlier in Oil Workers.
It reached the merits even though the Governor had
terminated the seizure of the public utility. His exec8 It may not appropriately be argued that there is an element
of discretion present here in the making of the determination of
individual "need" for welfare benefits. That determination has no
measurable effect on thp rights of the corporate petitioners.

Instead,

it is the basic eligibility for assistance that allegedly prejudices those
petitioners' economic position.

SUPER TIRE ENGINEERING CO. v. McCORKLE
115

125

Opinion of the Court

utive order, however, recited that the labor dispute "remains unresolved." The Court's rationale was that,
since the labor dispute had not ended, "[tihere thus
exists in the present case not merely the speculative
possibility of invocation of the King-Thompson Act in
some future labor dispute, but the presence of an existing unresolved dispute which continues subject to all
the provisions of the Act. Cf. Southern Pac. Terminal
Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 219 U. S. 498,
514-516; United States v. W. T. Grant Co., 345 U. S.
629, 632." 374 U. S., at 78. The existence of the
strike was important in that it rendered concrete the
likelihood of state action prejudicial to the interests of
the union. It was the remoteness of the threat of state
action that convinced the Court in Oil Workers to hold
that case moot. In the case now before us, the state
action is not at all contingent. Under the petitioners'
view of the case, it is immediately and directly injurious
to the corporate petitioners' economic positions. Where
such state action or its imminence adversely affects the
status of private parties, the courts should be available to
render appropriate relief and judgments affecting the
parties' rights and interests.
B. If we were to condition our review on the existence
of an economic strike, this case most certainly would be
of the type presenting an issue "capable of repetition, yet
evading review." Southern Pac. Terminal Co. v.
ICC, 219 U. S., at 515; Grinnell Corp. v. Hackett, 475
F. 2d 449 (CA1), cert. denied, 414 U. S. 858 and 879
(1973); ITT Lamp Division v. Minter, 435 F. 2d, at
991. To require the presence of an active and live
labor dispute would tax the litigant too much by
arbitrarily slighting claims of adverse injury from concrete governmental action (or the immediate threat
thereof). It is sufficient, therefore, that the litigant
show the existence of an immediate and definite gov536-272 0 - 75 - 13

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

ernmental action or policy that has adversely affected
and continues to affect a present interest. Otherwise,
a state policy affecting a collective-bargaining -arrangement, except one involving a fine or other penalty,
could be adjudicated only rarely, and the purposes of
the Declaratory Judgment Act would be frustrated.
Certainly, the pregnant appellants in Roe v. Wade,
supra, and in Doe v. Bolton, 410 U. S. 179 (1973), had
long since outlasted their pregnancies by the time their
cases reached this Court. Yet we liad no difficulty fi
rejecting suggestions of mootness. 410 U. S., at 125
and 187. Similar and consistent results were reached in
Storer v. Brown, 415 U. S.724, 737 n. 8 (1974); Rosario
v. Rockefeller, 410 U. S. 752, 756 n. 5 (1973); Dunn v.
Blumstein, 405 U. S. 330, 333 n. 2 (1972); and Moore
v. Ogilvie, 394 U. S, 814, 816 (1969), cases concerning
various challenges to state election laws. The important
ingredient in these cases was governmental action directly affecting, and continuing to affect, the behavior
of citizens in our society.
The issues here are no different. Economic strikes
are of comparatively short duration. There are exceptions, of course. See, for example, Local 833, UAW v.
NLRB, 112 U. S. App. D. C. 107, 300 F. 2d 699, cert.
denied sub nom. Kohler Co. v. Local 838, UAW, 370
U. S. 911 (1962).
But the great majority of economic strikes do not last long enough for complete judicial review of the controversies they engender. U. S.
Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Analysis of
Work Stoppages 1971, TableA 3, p. 16 (1973). A strike
that lasts six weeks, as this one did, may seem long, but
its termination, like pregnancy at nine months and elections spaced at year-long or biennial intervals. should, not
preclude challenge to state policies that-have had their
impact and that continue in force, unabated and un-

SUPER TIRE ENGINEERING CO. v. McCORKLE
115

STEWART,

127

J., dissenting

reviewed. The judiciary must not close the door to
the resolution of the important questions these concrete
disputes present.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed
and the case is remanded for further proceedings on the
merits of the controversy.
It is so ordered.
MR.JUSTICE STEWART, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE,
MR.JUSTICE POWELL, and MR.JUSTICE REHNQUIST join,

dissenting.
The Court today reverses the Court of Appeals and
holds that this case is not moot, despite the fact that
the underlying labor dispute that gave rise to the petitioners' claims ended even before the parties made their
initial appearance in the District. Court. I think this
holding ignores the limitations placed upon the federal
judiciary by Art. III of the Constitution and disregards
the clear teachings of prior cases. Accordingly, I dissent.
This Court has repeatedly recognized that the inability
of the federal judiciary "to review moot cases derives
from the requirement of Art. III of the Constitution
under which the exercise of judicial power depends upon
the existence of a case or controversy." Liner v. Jafco,
Inc., 375 U. S.301, 306 n. 3. See also North Carolinav.
Rice, 404 U. S. 244, 246; Powell v. McCormack, 395
U. S.486, 496 n. 7; Sibron v. New York, 392 U. S.40,
50 n. 8. Since Art. III courts are precluded from issuing advisory opinions, Hayburn's Case, 2 Dali. 409;
Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S.346, it necessarily
follows that they are impotent "to decide questions that
cannot affect the rights of litigants in the case before
them." North Carolinav. Rice, supra, at 246; St. Pierre
V. United States, 319 U. S.41, 42.2
1See generally Diamond, Federal Jurisdiction to Decide Moot
Cases, 94 Tj. Pa. L. Rev. 125; Note, Mootness on Appeal in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
STEWART, .J,, dissenting

416 U. S.

These broad constitutional principles, of course, provide no more than the starting point, since the decision as
to whether any particular lawsuit is moot can be made
only after analysis of the precise factual situation of the
parties involved. 'But in my -view our task ift the present
case is greatly simplified, for this Court has had several
occasions within the past 20 years to apply the general
principles of mootness to the specific facts of labor disputes closely, analogous to the one at hand.
The first of these cases was Harris v. Battle, 348 U. S.
8.03, in which the 'issue was whether a Virginia statute
that permitted the state Governor to order that "possession" be taken of a transit company whose employees
were on strike was in conflict with the National Labor
]Relations Act. The Underlying labor dispute was settled
and the seizure terminated before the case came to trial,
but the trial court nevertheless proceeded to decide the
merits of the controversy, finding the statute constitutional. After the Virginia Supreme Court refused
review, an appeal was taken to this Court. In a brief
per curiam opinion, this Court held that the case was.
moot and ordered the appeal dismissed.
In Oil Worker Uni6ns v. Missouri, 361 U. S. 363, we
had occasion to explicate the holding of Harris v. Battle
in the context of. a challenge to Missouri's King-Thompson Act, which allowed the Governor on behalf of the
State to take possession of and operate a privately owned
ltlic utility affected by a work stoppage. In that case,
the underlying strike and seizure had terminated while
the case was on appeal to the Supreme Court of Missouri.
Nonetheless, that court considered the mnrits of the lawSupreme Court, 83 Harv. L. Rev. 1672; Note, Mootness and Ripeness: The Postman Always Rings Twice, 65 Col. L. Rev. 867;

Note, Cases Moot on Appeal: A Limit on the Judicial Power,
103 U. Pa. L. Rev. 772.

SUPER TIRE ENGINEERING CO. v. McCORKLE
115

STEWART,

129

J., dissenting

suit, holding the King-Thompson Act constitutional.
We read Harris v. Battle as requiring that the case be
held moot, since the termination of both the strike and
the seizure left "no 'actual matters in controversy essential to the decision of the particular case'" then before
us. 361 U. S., at 367, quoting from United States v.
Alaska S. S. Co., 253 V. S. 113, 116.
The constitutionality of the King-Thompson Act was
again at issue in Bus Employees v. Missouri, 374 U. S.
74. The strike and seizure in that case were still in
effect at the time of the decision of the Supreme Court
of Missouri, but, after the appellants' jurisdictional
statement was filed in this Court, the Governor of
Missouri terminated the outstanding seizure order. Consequently, the appellees argued that the case had become
moot, relying on Harris and Oil Workers. We rejected
the contention, noting that in both those cases, the underlying labor dispute had been settled by the time the
litigation reached this Court. In Bus Employees, by
contrast, the strike was still unresolved, and the appellants were thus fully subject to the provisions of the
King-Thompson Act. Hence, we concluded that Harris
and Oil Workers did not control, and we proceeded to
decide the merits of the case, holding the Missouri law
to be in conflict with the National Labor Relations Act,
and thus invalid under the Supremacy Clause.
I think it is clear that the facts of the case before
us. serve to bring it within the teaching of Harris and
Oil Workers, and outside the ambit of Bus Employees.
Here, as in Harris and Oil Workers, both the underlying
work stoppage and the challenged governmental actionthe providing of welfare benefits to the petitioners' employees-had ceased long before review was sought in
this Court. Any view that a federal court might express
on the merits of the petitioners' Supremacy Clause claims

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
STEWART,

J., dissenting

416 U. S.

would, therefore, amount to an advisory opinion, having
no effect on any "actual matters in controversy." As
we noted in Oil Workers, such an undertaking would
ignore a "basic limitation upon the duty and function
of the Court, and . . . disregard principles of judicial
administration long established and repeatedly followed."
361 U. S., at 368.
The Court offers essentially two arguments aitned at
distinguishing this case from Harris and Oil Workers.
First, it says that the very existence of the New Jersey
welfare programs constitutes a continuing burden on the
petitioners' ability to engage in collective bargaining with
the respondent union. Secondly, the Court says that the
underlying controversy here is "capable of repetition, yet
evading review," and thus comes within the rule of
Southern Pac. Terminal Co. v. ICC, 219 U. S. 498, 515.
Similar arguments, however, were considered and rejected in both Harrisand Oil Workers. In each of those
cases it was argued that the Southern Pacific doctrine prevented a finding of mootness, and it was also argued that
the case was not moot because of the continuing threat
of state seizure of public utilities in future labor disputes.
The Court's summary dismissal of the Harris appeal
necessarily rejected both of these contentions, and we
explicitly adhered to that holding in Oil Workers:
"In [Harris] it was urged that the controversy was
not moot because of the continuing threat of state
" seizure in future labor disputes. It was argued that
the State's abandonment of alleged unconstitutional
activity after its objective had been accomplished
should not be permitted to forestall decision as to
the validity of the statute under which the State
had purported to act. It was contended that the
situation was akin to cases like Southern Pac. Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 219

SUPER TIRE ENGINEERING CO. v. McCORKLE
115

STEWART,

131

J., dissenting

U. S. 498, 514-516. In finding that the controversy
was moot, the Court necessarily rejected all these
contentions. 348 U. S. 803. Upon the authority
of that decision the same contentions must be
rejected in the present case. See also Barker Co. v.
Painters Union, 281 U. S. 462; Commercial Cable
Co. v. Burleson, 250 U. S. 360." 361 U. S., at 368369 (footnotes omitted).
I find no reason to depart from this holding in the
case before us. While it is not inconceivable that the
petitioners' employees will once again strike and perhaps
once again become eligible for future New Jersey welfare
benefits, I find little to distinguish that hypothetical
situation from the "speculative possibility of invocation of
2
the King-Thompson Act in some future labor dispute"
that was present in Oil Workers. And, even if it could be
assumed that the present controversy is "capable of
repetition" within the meaning of the Southern Pacific
test, I am less than confident that the issues presented
can truly be characterized as "evading review." If nothing else, the Bus Employees case teaches that even the
most confident predictions about the future unreviewability of specific legal controversies are often proved
inaccurate. Indeed, several courts of appeals have had
the opportunity to consider the precise Supremacy Clause
issues now raised by the petitioners in the context of
ongoing labor disputes.'
Given that experience, I
2 Bus Employees v. Missouri, 374 U. S. 74, 78.

3In ITT Lamp Division v. Minter, 435 F. 2d 989 (CAl),
two cases were consolidated on 'appeal; one of them involved an
ongoing strike. Similarly, the underlying labor dispute in Russo v.
Kirby, 453 F. 2d 548 (CA2), was still in effect at the time of the
Court of Appeals' decision, although the appellate court did not
reach the employers' Supremacy Clause arguments, since it found
that the District Court lacked jurisdiction to hear the suit, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
SrEWART,

J., disserting

416 U. S.

cannot conclude that it is permissible to resolve these
important questions in a case where their resolution will
have no direct effect on the parties to the litigation.
The argument that eligibility of strikers for future
New Jersey welfare benefits might affect the "ongoing"
process of collective. bargaining fares no better in the
light of the Oil Workers decision. The continued existence. of the King-Thompson Act in Oil Workers arguably
had a most significant effect on the employees' collectivebargaining ability, since it threatened to deprive them
of their principal economic weapon, the capacity to
strike. Yet the Court found the continuing threat of
seizure in future labor disputes to be insufficient to save
the Oil Workers case from mootness. No different
weight should be accorded to the petitioners' argument
that the possibility of strikers receiving welfare benefits
will make future work stoppages less onerous for their
employees.4
had been brought by strikers to compel the payment of welfare
benefits.
4
The Court characterizes the governmental action challenged
in Oil Workers and Harris as more "remote" and "contingent" than
the New Jersey policy at hand. For mootness purposes, I think
that this is a distinction without a difference. For one thing, New
Jersey does not automatically extend welfare benefits to striking
workers; it merely makes them eligible to receive such benefits,

provided that they meet all other appropriate criteria. Thus, for
th, challenged governmental action here to recur, at least two things
must happen: the respondent union must again call a strike, and
the workers must satisfy the standards of need that may then be
set forth in the New Jersey welfare statutes. If the threat of
seizure in Oil Workers was viewed as "contingent" in nature, no
different conclusion can be reached here.
Moreover, as the Court concedes, ante, at 123 n. 7, the threat of
seizure in Oil Workers involved. "a far more severe form" of governmental interference in the collective-bargaining process than does
the New Jersey policy of making strikers eligible for welfare benefits,
since invocation of the Missouri statute served to cripple any strike

SUPER TIRE ENGINEERING CO. v. McCORKLE
115

STEWART,

133

J., dissentiag

In short, I think that this case is completely controlled
by Harris and Oil Workers. The doctrine of mootness
is already a difficult and complex one, and I think that
the Court today muddies the waters further by straining
unnecessarily to distinguish and limit some of the few
clear precedents available to us.
For these reasons I would affirm the judgment of the
Court of Appeals.

completely. Thus, even if the governmental action involved in Oil
Workers is viewed as more "contingent" than in the present case,
I cannot understand how its effect on the collective-bargaining
process can be characterized as less serious-

