DONNELLY v. DECHRISTOFORO
Syllabus

DONNELLY v. DECHRISTOFORO
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE FIRST CIRCUIT
No. 72-1570.

Argued February 20, 1974-Decided May 13, 1974

During the course of a joint first-degree murder trial, respondent's
codefendant pleaded guilty to second-degree murder, of which
the trial court advised the jury, stating that the trial against respondent would continue. In.his summation, the prosecutor stated
that respondent and his counsel had said that they "hope that you
find him not guilty. I quite frankly think that they hope 'that
you find him guilty of something a little less than first-degree
murder." Respondent's counsel objected and later sought an
instruction that the remark was improper and should be disregarded. In its instructions, the trial court, after re-emphasizing
the prosecutor's statement that his argument was not evidence,
declared that the challenged remark was unsupported, and admonished the jury to ignore it. Respondent was convicted-,of first-degree murder. The State's highest court ruled
that the prosecutor's remark, though improper, was not so prejudicial as to warrant a mistrial and that the trial court's instruction

sufficed to safeguard respondent's rights. The District Court
denied respondent's petition for a -writ of habeas corpus. The
Court of Appeals reversed, concluding that the challenged comment.implied that respondent, like his codefendant, had offered to
plead guilty to a lesser offense, but was refused and that the comment was thus potentially so misleading and prejudicial as to
deprive respondent of a constitutionally fair trial. Held: In the
circumstances of this case, where the prosecutor's ambiguous remark in the course of an extended trial was followed by the trial
court's specific disapproving instructions, no prejudice amounting
to a denial of constitutional due process was shown. Miller v.
Pate, 386 U. S.1; Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S.83, distinguished.

P .642-W.
473 F. 2d 1236, reversed.
REHNQUIST,

J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which

BURGER, C. J.j and STEWART, WHITE, BLACKmUN, and POWELL, JJ.,
joined. STEWART, J., filed a concurring opinion, in which WrTE, J.,

530-272 0 - 75 - 45

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
9pinion of the Court
joined, post, p. 648.

II of which

416 U. S.

DouGLAs, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in Part
joined, post, p. 648.

BRENNAN and MARSHALL, JJ.,

David A. Mills, Assistant Attorney General of Massachusetts, argued the cause for petitioner. With him on
the brief were Robert H. Quinn, Attorney General, John
J. Irwin, Jr., and Barbara A. H. Smith, Assistant Attorneys General.
Paul T. Smith argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Harvey R. Peters and Jeffrey M.
Smith.*
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondent was tried before a jury in Massachusetts
Superior Court and convicted of first-degree murder.'
The jury recommended that the death penalty not be
imposed, and respondent was sentenced to life imprisonment. He appealed to the Supreme Judicial Court
of Massachusetts contending, inter alia, that certain of the prosecutor's remarks during closing argument
deprived him of his constitutional right to a fair trial.
The Supreme Judicial Court affirmed.'
That court
acknowledged that the prosecutoi had made improper
remarks, but determined that they were not so prejudicial
as to require reversal.
Respondent then sought habeas corpus relief in the
United States District Court for the District of Massa*Melvin B. Lewis filec a brief for the National Association of
Criminal Defense Lawyers as, amicus curiae.
1Respondent
and his codefendants were also indicted for illegal
possession of firearms, and respondent received a four- to five-year
sentence on that charge. The conviction is in no way related to
the issues before the Court in this case.
2 Comronwealth v. DeChristoforo, Mass. -,
277 N. E. 2d
100 (1971).

DONNELLY v. DECHRISTOFORO
637

Opinion of the Court

chusetts. The District Court denied relief, stating:
"[T]he prosecutor's arguments were not so prejudicial as
to deprive [DeChristoforo] of his constitutional right to
a fair trial." ' The Court of Appeals for the First Circuit reversed by a divided vote.' The majority held that
the prosecutor's remarks deliberately conveyed the false
impression that respondent had unsuccessfully sought to
plead to a lesser charge and that this conduct Was a denial
of due process. We granted certiorari, 414 U. S. 974
(1973), to consider whether such remarks, in the context
of the entire trial, were sufficiently prejudicial to violate
respondent's due process rights. We hold they were not
and so reverse.
I
Respondent and two companions were indicted for the
first-degree murder of Joseph Lanzi, a passenger in the
car in which the defendants were riding. Police had
stopped the car at approximately 4 a. m. on April 18,
1967, and had discovered Lanzi's dead body along with
two firearms, one of which had been fired. A second gun,
also recently fired, was found a short distance away.
Respondent and one companion avoided apprehension
at that time, but the third defendant was taken into
custody. He later pleaded guilty to second-degree
murder.
Respondent and the other defendant, Gagliardi, were
finally captured and tried jointly. The prosecutor made
little claim that respondent fired any shots but argued that
he willingly assisted in the killing. Respondent, on the
other hand, maintained that he was an innocent passenger' At the close of the evidence but before final argument, Gagliardi elected to plead guilty to a charge of
second-degree murder. The court advised the jury that
3

App. 231.
4473 F 2d 1236 (1973).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

Gagliardi had pleaded guilty and that respondent's trial
would continue.5 Respondent did not seek an instruction that the jury was to draw no inference from the
plea, and no such instruction was given.
Respondent's claims of constitutional error focus on
two remarks made by the prosecutor during the course
of his rather lengthy closing argument to the jury. The
first involved the expression of a personal opinion as to
guilt,' perhaps offered to rebut a somewhat personalized
argument by respondent's counsel. The majority of the
Court of Appeals agreed with the Supreme Judicial Court
of Massachusetts that this remark was improper, but
declined to rest its holding of a violation of due process
on that remark. It turned to a second remark that it
deemed "more serious."
The prosecutor's second challenged comment was
directed at respondent's motives in standing trial: "They
[the respondent and his counsel] said they hope that
you find him not guilty. I quite frankly think that they
hope that you find him guilty of something a little
less than first-degree murder." I Respondent's counsel
objected immediately to the statement and later sought
an instruction that the remark was improper and should
5 The

trial court stated:
"Mr. Foreman, madam and gentlemen of the jury. You will notice
that the defendant Gagliardi is not in the dock. He has pleaded
'guilty,' and his case has been disposed of.
"We will, therefore, go forward with the trial of the case of Commonwealth vs DeChristoforo." App. 99.
6 The challenged remark was: "I honestly and sincerely believe that there is no doubt in this case, none whatsoever." Id., at
130.
7 The Court of Appeals noted: "[A]t least the jury knows that
the prosecutor is an advocate and it may be expected, to some
degree, to discount such remarks as seller's talk." 473 F. 2d, at 1238.
8
App. 129.

DONNELLY v. DECHRISTOFORO
637

Opinion of the Court

be disregarded. 9 The court then gave the following
instruction:
"Closing arguments are not evidence for your
consideration. ....
. "Now -in his closing, the District Attorney, I
noted, made a statement: 'I don't know what
they want you to do by way of a verdict. They
said they hope that you find him not guilty. I
quite frankly think that they hope that you find him
guilty of something a little less than first-degree
murder.' There is no evidence of that whatsoever,
of course, you are instructed to disregard that statement made by the District Attorney.
"Consider the case as though no such statement
was made." "o
The majority of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, though again not disputing that the remark
was improper, held that it was not so prejudicial as to
require a mistrial and further stated that the trial judge's
instruction "was sufficient to safeguard the defendant's
rights." 11 Despite this decision and the District Court's
denial of a writ of habeas corpus, the Court of Appeals
found that the comment was potentially so misleading
and prejudicial that it deprived respondent of a constitutionally fair trial.
9 No instruction was sought at the time although the court apparently was willing to give one. Thetrial judge later told counsel:

"[H]ad there been a motion made by.you at that time to have me
instruct the jury along the lines of eliminating that from their
minds, or something of that nature, I certainly would have complied,

because I did consider at the time the argument was beyond the
grounds of complete propriety, but certainly far from being grounds
for a mistrial." Id., at 133.
10 Id., at 143-144.
I'l - Mass., at -, 277 N. E. 2d, at 105.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

Th3 Court of Appeals reasoned that the jury would
be naturally curious about respondent's failure to plead
guilky and that this curiosity would be heightened by
Gagliardi's decision to plead guilty at the close of the
evidence. In this context, the court thought, the prosecutolr's comment that respondent hoped for conviction on a
lesser offense would suggest to the jury that respondent
had sought to plead guilty but hed been refused. Since the
prosecutor was in a position to know such facts, the jury
may well have surmised that respondent had already
adm.tted guilt in an attempt to secure reduced charges.
This, said the Court of Appeals, is the inverse of, but a
parallel to, intentional suppression of favorable evidence.
The prosecutor had deliberately misled the jury, and even
if the statement was made thoughtlessly, "in a first degree
murder case there must be some duty on a prosecutor to
be ;houghtful." 12 Therefore, the District Court had
erred in denying respondent's petition.
II
The Court of Appeals in this case noted, as petitioner
urged, that its review was "the narrow one of due process,
and not the broad exercise of supervisory power that
[it] would possess in regard to [its] own trial court." "I
We regard this observation as important for not every
trial error or infirmity which might call for application
of supervisory powers correspondingly constitutes a
"failure to observe that fundamental fairness essential to
the very concept of justice." Lisenba v. California, 314
U. S. 219, 236 (1941). We stated only this Term in
Cupp v. Naughten, 414 U. S. 141 (1973), when reviewing
an instruction given in a state court:
"Before a federal court may overturn a conviction
12473

18

F. 2d, at 1240.

Id., at 1238.

DONNELLY v. DECHRISTOFORO

637

Opinion of the Court,
resulting from a state trial in which this lastruction

was used, it must be established not merely that the
instruction is undesirable, erroneous, or even 'universally condemned,' but that it violated some right
which was guaranteed to the defendant by the Fourteenth Amendment." 14
This is not a case in which the State has denied a
defendant the benefit of a specific provision of the Bill
of Rights, such as the right to counsel, Argersinger v.
Hamlin, 407 U. S. 25 (1972), or in which the prosecutor's
remarks so prejudiced a specific right, such as the privilege
against compulsory self-incrimination, as to amount to
a denial of that right. Griffin v. California, 380 U. S.
609 (1965)."

When specific guarantees of the Bill of

Rights are involved, this Court has taken special care to
assure that prosecutorial conduct in no way impermissibly infringes them. But here the claim is only that
a prosecutor's remark about respondent's expectations at
trial by itself so infected the trial with unfairness as to
make the resulting conviction a denial of due process.
We do not believe that examination of the entire proceedi*ngs in this case supports that contention.
Conflicting inferences have been drawn from the prosecutor's statement by the courts below. Although the
Court of Appeals stated flatly that "the prosecuting
attorney turned Gagliardi's plea into a telling stroke
against [DeChristoforol" 16 by implying respondent had
14 414 U. S., at 146.
' 5 Respondent does suggest that the prosecutor's statements may
have deprived him of the right to confrontation. See Pointer v.
Texas, 380 U. S. 400 (1965). But this argument is without merit,
for the prosecutor here simply stated his own opinions and introduced no statements made by persons unavailable for questioning
at trial.
16 473 F. 2d, at 1239.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

offered to plead guilty as well, the dissent found the
inference to be "far less obvious." " The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts stated that it considered the
same argument illogical:
"It is not logical to conclude that the jury would
accept any implied argument of the prosecutor that,
because one of the men whom the defendant blamed
for the murder had pleaded guilty, the defendant was
any less firm in his assertion that he himself was
not guilty of any crime whatsoever."' 8
Thus it is by no means clear that the jury did engage
in the hypothetical analysis suggested by the majority
of the Court of Appeals, or even probable that it would
seize such a comment out of context and attach this particular meaning to it. Five Justices of the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts and at least one federal
judge have all confessed difficulty in making this speculative connection.
In addition, the trial court took special pains to correct
any impression that the jury could consider the prosecutor's statements as evidence in the case. The prosecutor,
as is customary, had previously told the jury that his
argument was not evidence,19 and the trial judge specifically re-emphasized that point. Then the judge directed
the jury's attention to the remark particularly challenged
here, declared it to be unsupported, and admonished the
jury to ignore it."0 Although some occurrences at trial
may be too clearly prejudicial for such a curative instruction to mitigate their effect, the comment in this case is
hardly of such character.
'17 Id., at 1241 (Campbell, J., dissenting).

18 App. 157.

19 Id., at 119.
:c gee n. 10, supra.

DONNELLY v. DECHRISTOFORO
637

Opinion of the Court.

In Cupp v. Naughten, supra, the respondent had challenged his conviction on the ground that a "presumption
of truthfulness" instruction, given by the state trial
court, had deprived him of the presumption of innocence
and had shifted the State's burden of proof to himself.
Holding that the instruction, although perhaps not advisable, did not violate due process, we stated:
"In determining the effect of this instruction on
the validity of respondent's conviction, we accept at
the outset the well-established proposition that a
single instruction to a jury may not be judged in
artificial isolation, but must be viewed in the context of the overall charge. Boyd v. United States,
271 U. S. 104, 107 (1926).
While this does not
mean that an instruction by itself may never rise
to the leve1l of constitutional error, see Cool v.
United States, 409 U. S. 100 (1972), it does recognize that a judgment of conviction is commonly the
culmination of a trial which includes testimony of
witnesses, argument of counsel, receipt of .exhibits
'in evidence, and instruction of the jury by the judge.
Thus not only is the challenged instruction but one
of many such instructions, but the process of instruc,.on itself is but one of several components of
the trial which may result in the judgment of

conviction."

21

Similarly, the prosecutor's remark here, admittedly an
ambiguous one, was but one moment in an extended trial
and was followed by specific disapproving instructions.
Although the process of constitutional line drawing in
this regard is necessarily imprecise, we simply do not
believe that this incident made respondent's trial so
fundamentally unfair as to deny him due process.
21414 U. S., at 146-147.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

416 U. S.

I
We do not find the cases cited by the Court of Appeals
to require a different result. In Miller v. Pate, 386 U. S.
1 (1967), the principal case relied upon, this Court held
that a state prisoner was entitled to federal habeas relief
upon a showing that a pair of stained undershorts, allegedly belonging to the prisoner and repeatedly described
by the State during trial as stained with blood, was in
fact stained with paint. In the course of its opinion, this
Court said:
"It was further established that counsel for the
prosecution had known at the time of the trial that
the shorts were stained with paint ...
"... The record of the petitioner's trial reflects
the prosecution's consistent and repeated misrepresentation that People's Exhibit 3 was, indeed, 'a
.garment heavily stained with blood.'" Id., at 6.
A long series of decisions in this Court," of course, had
established the proposition that the "Fourteenth Amendment cannot tolerate a state criminal conviction obtained
by the knowing use of false evidence." Id., at 7. The
Court in Miller found those cases controlling,
We countenance no retreat from that proposition in
observing that it falls far short of embracing the prosecutor's remark in this case. The "consistent and repeated
misrepresentation" of a dramatic exhibit in evidence may
profoundly impress a jury and may have a significant
impact on the jury's deliberations. Isolated passages of
a prosecutor's argument, billed in advance to the jury
as a matter of opinion not of evidence, do not reach
the same proportions. Such arguments, like all closing
arguments of counsel, are seldom carefully constructed
22 See, e. g., Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103 (1935); Napue v.
Illinois, 360 U. S. 264 (1959).

DONNELLY v. DECHRISTOFORO
637

Opinion of the Court

in toto before the event; improvisation frequently results

in syntax left imperfect and meaning less than crystal
clear. While these general observations in no way
justify prosecutorial misconduct, they do suggest that a
court should not lightly infer that a prosecutor intends an
ambiguous remark to have its most damaging meaning or that a jury, sitting through lengthy exhortation,
will draw that meaning from the plethora of less damaging interpretations.
The Court of Appeals' reliance on Brady v. Maryland,
373 U. S. 83 (1963), is likewise misplaced. In Brady,
the prosecutor had withheld evidence, a statement by the
petitioner's codefendant, which was directly relevant to
the extent of the petitioner's involvement in the crime.
Since the petitioner had testified that his codefendant
had done the actual shooting and since the petitioner's
counsel was not contesting guilt but merely seeking to
avoid the death penalty, evidence of the degree of the
petitioner's participation was highly significant to the
primary jury issue. As in Miller, manipulation of the

evidence by the prosecution was likely to have an important effect on the jury's determination. But here
there was neither the introduction of specific misleading
evidence important to the prosecution's case in chief nor
the nondisclosure of specific evidence valuable to the accused's defense. There were instead a few brief sentences
in the prosecutor's long and expectably hortatory closing
argument which might or might not suggest to a jury
that the respondent had unsuccessfully sought to bargain
for a lesser charge. We find nothing in Brady to suggest
that due process is so easily denied.
The result reached by the Court of Appeals in this case
leaves virtually meaningless the distinction between
ordinary trial error of a prosecutor and that sort of egregious misconduct held in Miller and Brady, supra, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
DOUGLAS,

416 U. S.

J., dissenting

amout to a denial of constitutional due process. 3
Since we believe that distinction should continue to be
observed, we reverse the judgment of the Court of
Appeals.

It is -so ordered.

MR. JUSTICE STEWART, with whom MR. JUSTICE WHITE

joins, concurring.

I agree with my Brother DOUGLAS that, when no new
principle of law is presented, we should generally leave
undisturbed the decision of a court of appeals that upon
the particular facts of any case habeas 'corpus relief
should be granted-or denied. For this reason I think
it was a mistake to grant a writ of certiorari in this case,
and I would now dismiss the writ as improvidently
granted.
We are bound here, however, by the "rule cf four."
That rule ordains that the votes of four Justices are
enough to grant certiorari and bring a case before the
Court for decision on the merits. If as many as four
Justices remain so minded after oral argument, due
adherence to that rule requires me to address the merits
of a case, however strongly I may feel that it does not
belong in this Court. See Ferguson v. Moore-McCormack Lines, 352 U. S. 521, 559 (separate opinion of
H~rlan, J.).
Upon this premise, I join the Court's opinion.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, dissenting.

The function of the prosecutor under the Federal Constitution is not to tack as many skins of victims as pos23 We do not, by this decision, in any way condone- prosecutorial

misconduct, and we believe that trial courts, by admonition and
instruction, and appellate courts, by proper exercise of their supervisory power, will continue to discourage it. We only say that, in
the circumstances of the case, no prejudice amounting to a denial of
constitutional due process was shown.

DONNELLY v. DsCHRISTOFORO
637

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

sible to the wall. His function is to vindicate the right
of people as expressed in the laws and give those accused
of crime a fair trial. As stated by the Court in Berger
v. United States, 295 U. S. 78, 88:
"The United States Attorney is the representative
not of an ordinary party to a controversy, but of
a sovereignty whose obligation to govern impartially
is as compelling as its obligation to govern at all;
and whose interest, therefore, in a criminal prosecution is not that it shall win a case, but that justice
shall be done. As such, he is in a peculiar and
very definite sense the servant of the law, the twofold aim of which is that guilt shall not escape or
innocence suffer. He may prosecute with earnestness and vigor-indeed, he should do so. But,
while he may strike hard blows, he is not at liberty
to strike foul ones. It is as much his duty to refrain from improper methods calculated to produce
a wrongful conviction as it is to use every legitimate
means to bring about a just one."
We have here a state case, not a federal one; and the
prosecutor is a state official. But we deal with an aspect
of a fair trial which is implicit in the Due Process Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment by which the States are
bound. Chambers v. Mississippi,410 U. S. 284; Sheppard
v. Maxwell, 384 U. S. 333; Turner v. Louisiana, 379 U. S.
466; Irvin v. Dowd, 366 U. S. 717.
In this case respondent was charged with first-degree
murder and was convicted in the state court by a jury.
At no time did he seek to plead guilty to a lesser offense.
It is stipulated:
"[A]t no time did defendant seek to plead guilty to
any offense; at no time did the Commonwealth

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

416 U. S.

seek to solicit or offer to accept a plea; and at all
times defendant insisted upon a trial."
A codefendant pleaded guilty to second-degree murder
and the jury was advised of the fact.
As to the guilt of respondent the prosecutor told the
jury,: "I honestly and sincerely believe that there is no
doubt in this case, none whatsoever."
And he went on to say: "I quite frankly think that
they hope that you find him guilty of something a little
less than first-degree murder."
These statements in the setting of the case and in
light of the fact that the jury knew the codefendant had
pleaded -guilty to second-degree murder, are a subtle
equivalent of a statement by the prosecutor that respondent sought a lesser penalty. Counsel for respondent
immediately objected but the court at the time did not
admonish the prosecutor or tell the jury to disregard
the statement, though it did cover the matter later in
its general instructions.
As a matter of federal law the introduction of a withdrawn plea of guilty is not admissible evidence, Kercheval
v. United'States, 274'U. S. 220. As a matter of procedural due process the Confrontation Clause of the Sixth
Amendment, applicable to the States by reason of the
Fourteenth Amendment, Pointerv. Texas, 380 U. S. 400,
would bar a person from testifying that the defendant
had sought a guilty plea unless the right of cross-examination of the witness was afforded, id., at 406-408. That
requirement of procedural due process should be sedulously enforced (save for the recognized exceptions of
dying declarations and the like, id., at 407) lest the theory
that the end justifies the means gains further footholds
here. The prosecutor is not a witness; and he should
not be permitted to-add to the record either by subtle

DONNELLY v. DECHRISTOFORO
637

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

or gross improprieties. Those who have experienced the
full thrust of the power of government when leveled
against them know that the only protection the citizen
has is in the requirement for a fair trial. The assurance
of the Court that we make no retreat from constitutional
government by today's decision Is therefore a hollow
ring.
Activist judges have brought federal habeas corpus into
disrepute at the present time. It is guaranteed by the
Constitution. It is a built-in restraint on judges--both
state and federal; and it is also a restraint on prosecutors
who are officers of the court. Our activist tendencies
should promote not law and order, but constitutional law
and order. Judges, too, can be tyrants and often have
been. Prosecutors are often eager to take almost any
shortcut to win, yet as I have -said they represent not an
ordinary party but We the People. As I have noted, their
duty is as much "to refrain from improper methods calculated to produce a wrongful conviction as it is to use
e- ery legitisiiate means to bring about a just one," Berger
v. United States, supra,at 88.
It is, I submit, quite "improper" for a prosecutor to
insinuate to the jury the existence of evidence not in
the record and which could not be introduced without
the privilege of cross-examination.
II
The Supreme Judicial Court ot Massachusetts had
difficulty with this case when it came before it on
direct appeal, two Justices, which included the Chief Justice, dissenting,* Commonwealth v. DeChristoforo,*Chief Justice Tauro said in dissent:
"The prosecutor's argument in the instant case permitted
or perhaps even suggested an inference that the defendant had conceded his guilt and was merely hoping for something a little less
than a verdict of murder in the first degree. This diminished his

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

Mass.

-

, 277 N. F. 2d 100.

416 U. S.

The Court of Appeals was

also divided, 473 F. 2d 1236. Our federal district courts
and courts of appeals are much closer to law administration in the respective States than are we in Washington, D. C. They are responsible federal judges who
know the Pederal Constitution as well as we do. Their
error in issuing the Great Writ-or in refusing to do sowould in my judgment have to be egregious for us to
grant a petition for certiorari. When a court of appeals
honors the Constitution by granting the Great Writ or
in its solemn judgment denies it, we should let the matter
rest there, save for manifest error.
I would affirm the judgment below.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL

would affirm the judgment below for the reasons stated in
Part II of the dissent of MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS.

chance for a fair trial to a far greater degree than would have the
publication in a newspaper of his criminal background. Unlike
a newspaper, the prosecutor ostensibly speaks with the authority
of his office. The prosecutor's 'personal status and his role as a
spokesman for the government tend[ed] to give to what he ...
[said] the ring of authenticity . . . tend[ing] to impart an implicit stamp of believability.' Hall v, United States, 419 F. 2d 582,
583-584 (5th Cir.). The prosecutor's remarks probably called for a
mistrial. In any event the judge's failure to instruct the jury
adequately and with sufficient force to eliminate the serious prejudice
to the defendant constitutes fatal error. Moreover, the judge's
routine final instructions to the jury were far from sufficient, to
correct the error. By then the defbndant's position had so deteriorated that his chances for a fair deliberation of his fate by the
jury were virtually eliminated." Mass., at -,
277 N. E.'d,
at 112.

