OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN
CHAMBERS
REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE ET AL.

V.

BURTON ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-768 (81-1641).

Decided March 11, 1982

An application for a stay, pending appeal, of the California Supreme
Court's judgment-which held that a statewide referendum petition had
effectively suspended the operation of California statutes redistricting
congressional districts after the 1980 census, but that the June 8, 1982,
primary election nonetheless should be conducted in accordance with the
districts established by those statutes-is denied. Even assuming that
the California Supreme Court wrongly interpreted the effect of a pertinent federal statute, that court's judgment appears to be based on adequate and independent state grounds, and this Court has no jurisdiction
to review decisions based on such grounds.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.

Applicants ask that I stay, pending their appeal therefrom,
the judgment of the Supreme Court of California entered on
January 28, 1982, in mandate proceeding S. F. No. 24354.
That proceeding concerns certain redistricting statutes enacted by the California Legislature in response to the 1980
decennial census which allotted California two additional congressional seats, the effect upon such statutes of a petition
calling for their review in a statewide referendum, and the
congressional districts to be used by the State in the interim.
The California Supreme Court held that the referendum petition effectively suspended the operation of the redistricting
statutes, but that the June 8, 1982, primary election nonetheless should be conducted in accordance with the district
boundaries set forth in those statutes. Assembly of State of
1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion in Chambers

455 U. S.

California v. Deukmejian, 30 Cal. 3d 638, 639 P. 2d 939
(1982).
Applicants argue that the June election should be conducted according to district boundaries in effect prior to the
1980 census, with the two new seats to be filled by at-large
elections. They contend that the California Supreme Court
erred when it held that 2 U. S. C. ยง 2c, which requires that
each Representative be elected from a separate district, superseded 2 U. S. C. ยง 2a(c)(2), which requires that newly allotted seats be filled by at-large elections if the State has not
completed redistricting. Applicants assert that this holding
merits review by this Court, and they present such arguments in a jurisdictional statement filed simultaneously with
this application.
Even if the applicants are correct in their contention that
the California Supreme Court wrongly interpreted the effect
of ยง 2c-a question on which I express no opinion-I think it
is highly unlikely that this Court will give plenary consideration to their appeal. In addition to construing provisions of
the United States Code, the decision of the California Supreme Court recites several state-law reasons for its holding
that the boundaries of the new redistricting scheme should be
followed in the June election.* Thus, the judgment appears
to be based on adequate and independent state grounds. Of
course, this Court has no jurisdiction to review decisions
Zacchini v.
based on adequate, nonfederal grounds.
Scripps-HowardBroadcastingCo., 433 U. S. 562, 568 (1977);
Cramp v. Board of Public Instruction, 368 U. S. 278, 281
(1961). Accordingly, the application for a stay of the judgment is denied, and the application for expedited oral argument is referred to the full Court.
*It does not appear that a contrary holding on the federal statutory question would alter the validity of the state grounds, for 2 U. S. C. ยง 2a(c)(2)
by its terms applies only "[u]ntil a State is redistricted in the manner provided by the law thereof." (Emphasis added.)

