KARCHER v. DAGGETT

1303

Opinion in Chambers

KARCHER, SPEAKER, NEW JERSEY ASSEMBLY,
ET AL. v. DAGGETT ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-783 (81-2057). Decided March 15, 1982
An application for a stay, pending appeal, of the District Court's judgment-which declared that a New Jersey statute creating new election
districts for United States Representatives in response to the 1980 census was unconstitutional because of population variances among the districts, and which enjoined any primary or general congressional elections
under the statute-is granted. There is a reasonable probability that
four Justices of this Court will consider the issue of the proper interpretation of the controlling standard of Kirkpatrick v. Preisler,394 U. S.
526, concerning permissible population variances to be sufficiently meritorious to note probable jurisdiction, and there is a fair prospect of reversal of the District Court's judgment. Moreover, applicants will suffer
irreparable harm if the stay is not granted, and apportionment plans created by the legislature are to be preferred to judicially constructed
plans.
JUSTICE BRENNAN, Circuit Justice.

Applicants, the Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly, the
President of the New Jersey Senate, and eight Members of
the United States House of Representatives from New Jersey, have applied to me for a stay pending this Court's review
on appeal of the judgment of a three-judge District Court for
the District of New Jersey entered March 3, 1982. Daggett
v. Kimmelman, 535 F. Supp. 978. The judgment declared
unconstitutional 1982 N. J. Laws, ch. 1, which creates districts for the election of the United States Representatives
from New Jersey, and enjoined the defendant state officers
from conducting primary or general congressional elections
under the terms of that statute.
On the basis of the 1980 decennial census, the number of
United States Representatives to which New Jersey is entitled has been decreased from 15 to 14. Consequently the

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion in Chambers

455 U. S.

New Jersey Legislature was required to apportion 14 congressional districts. Chapter 1 is the product of the state
legislature's effort to meet that requirement. The District
Court found that in drafting ch. 1 the legislature was concerned not only with drawing districts of equal population as
an "aspirational" goal but also with recognizing such factors
as the preservation of the cores of pre-existing districts, the
preservation of municipal boundary lines, and the preservation of the districts of incumbent Democratic Congressmen.
Chapter 1 creates 14 congressional districts with an overall
absolute range of deviation of 3,674 people and an overall relative range of deviation of 0.6984% from the "ideal" map of 14
districts of 526,059 persons each. There were, however,
several other proposals brought before the legislature that
yielded total deviations of less than 0.6984%. The opinion
for the majority of the District Court says of these:
"For example, the Roeck plan contained a total deviation
of .3250%, and only .2960% after it was amended. The
DiFrancesco plan ... had a total deviation of .1253%.
The Hardwick plan . . . contained a total deviation of
.4515%. The Bennett plan.., and the Kavanaugh plan
...contain total deviations of .1369% and .0293%, respectively." 535 F. Supp., at 982.
All three judges of the District Court agreed that the constitutionality of 1982 N. J. Laws, ch. 1, was to be determined
under the standard announced in Kirkpatrickv. Preisler,394
U. S. 526 (1969), and its progeny, e. g., White v. Weiser, 412
U. S. 783 (1973). But the judges divided 2 to 1 on what that
standard is. The majority read Kirkpatrickas holding that,
even if 0.6984% was to be regarded as a de minimis variance,
"P. L. 1982, c. 1 can withstand constitutional attack
only if the population variances 'are unavoidable despite
a good-faith effort to achieve absolute equality . .. .'
Kirkpatrick, 394 U. S. at 531 ....
It is clear that the
.6984% population deviation of P. L. 1982, c. 1 is not un-

KARCHER v. DAGGETI
1303

1305

Opinion in Chambers

avoidable. The legislature had the option of choosing
from several other plans with a lower total deviation
than .6984%." 535 F. Supp., at 982.
The dissenting judge, on the other hand, read Kirkpatrick to
suggest:
"[V]ariances may be justified which do not achieve statistically significant dilutions of the relative representation of voters in larger districts when compared with
that of voters in smaller districts .... [Kirkpatrick is
to be read to announce] a prohibition against toleration
of de minimis dilutions of relative representation rather
than as a prohibition against toleration of de minimis
population variances which have no statistically relevant
effect on relative representation. A plus-minus deviation of 0.6984% falls within the latter category." 535
F. Supp., at 982.
The appeal would thus appear to present the important
question whether Kirkpatrick v. Preislerrequires adoption
of the plan that achieves the most precise mathematical exactitude, or whether Kirkpatrickleft some latitude for the New
Jersey Legislature to recognize the considerations taken into
account by it as a basis for choosing among several plans,
each with arguably "statistically insignificant" variances from
the constitutional ideal of absolute precision.
The principles that control my determination as Circuit
Justice of this in-chambers application were stated in Rostker
v. Goldberg, 448 U. S. 1306 (1980) (BRENNAN, J., in
chambers):
"Relief from a single Justice is appropriate only in those
extraordinary cases where the applicant is able to rebut
the presumption that the decisions below-both on the
merits and on the proper interim disposition of the
case-are correct. In a case like the present one, this
can be accomplished only if a four-part showing is made.
First, it must be established that there is a 'reasonable

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion in Chambers

455 U. S.

probability' that four Justices will consider the issue sufficiently meritorious to grant certiorari or to note probable jurisdiction. Second, the applicant must persuade
[the Circuit Justice] that there is a fair prospect that a
majority of the Court will conclude that the decision
below was erroneous. While related to the first inquiry,
this question may involve somewhat different considerations, especially in cases presented on direct appeal.
Third, there must be a demonstration that irreparable
harm is likely to result from the denial of a stay. And
fourth, in a close case it may be appropriate to 'balance
the equities'-to explore the relative harms to applicant
and respondent, as well as the interests of the public at
large." Id., at 1308 (citations omitted).
The importance of a definitive answer from this Court as to
the proper interpretation of the Kirkpatrick standard is selfevident: Doubtless all 50 States would be assisted by that answer in any review of the apportionment of congressional
seats in consequence of the 1980 census. My task is not to
adjudicate this application on my own view of the merits of
that question, but rather to determine whether there is a
"reasonable probability" that four Justices will consider the
issue sufficiently meritorious to note probable jurisdiction of
this appeal, and, if so, whether there is a fair prospect that a
majority of the Court will conclude that the decision below
was erroneous. Neither event can be predicted with anything approaching certainty, but nonetheless it does seem to
me that there is a reasonable probability that jurisdiction of
the appeal will be noted, and that there is a fair prospect of
reversal.
As to the third Rostker requirement, I conclude that applicants would plainly suffer irreparable harm were the stay not
granted. Under the District Court order the legislature
must either adopt an alternative redistricting plan before
March 22 next or face the prospect that the District Court
will implement its own redistricting plan. With respect to

KARCHER v. DAGGETT
1303

1307

Opinion in Chambers

the balance of the equities, this Court has repeatedly emphasized that legislative apportionment plans created by the legislature are to be preferred to judicially constructed plans.
Accordingly, I am today entering an order granting the
application for a stay pending the filing of a jurisdictional
statement and, if probable jurisdiction is noted, final disposition of the appeal.

