MILLS v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

that prescribed in section sixteen of the Act. It is simply
to hold that the plaintiff, having demanded and obtained
the appropriate ruling from the Commission as to the
discrimination which had been practiced, was then entitled to proceed for the recovery of damages in accordance with the Act, and not otherwise. The fact that
the Commission had not made its award of damages at
the time the action was brought is immaterial. The
proceeding before the Commission was pending and the
plaintiff's right and remedy were fixed by the Federal act.
We conclude, therefore, that with respect to the damage sustained by the plaintiff in its interstate business by
reason of the unjustly discriminatory distribution of
cars for interstate shipments, the plaintiff was not entitled to maintain this action under the state statute.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

MILLS, AS SURVIVING PARTNER OF NAYLOR
& COMPANY, v. LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT
No. 631.

Argued May 11, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

In a suit under ยง 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, a report of the
Interstate Commerce Commission finding that the rate complained
of was unreasonable, and awarding specified amount for reparation,
is prima facie evidence of the damages sustained although the evidential or .primary facts are not set forth. Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh
Valley R. R., 236 U. S. 412; id. 434.
Where the Interstate Commerce Commission makes an award to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

238 U. S.

shipper complaining of unreasonable and discriminatory rates, as
reparation, it expresses such decision as a matter of ultimate fact,
and under the provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce the
form of expression is not confined to a particular formula.
The Act to Regulate Commerce does not allow any attorney's fee for
reparation proceeding before the Commission, but only allows such a
fee in an action in the courts based on the reparation award. Meeker
& Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. R., 236 U. S. 432.

THE facts, which involve claims of shippers against the
carriers for unreasonable and discriminatory rates, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. V. F. Gable and Mr. Arthur R. Thompson, with
whom Mr. Frank Van Sant was on ihe brief, for plaintiff
in error:
The report and order of the Commission awarding
reparation discloses sufficient findings of fact on which the
award is based.
The measure of damages is proper.
The Commission's report on rehearing is based on report of original hearing.
There was no error in the trial court, but the Circuit
Court of Appeals erred. Allen v. C., M. & St. P. Ry., 16
I. C. C. 293; Baer Bros. v. Denver & R. G. R. R., 233
U. S. 479; Burton v. Driggs, 87 U. S. 125; Burr v. Des
Moines, 1 Wall. 99; Cassell v. B. & 0. Ry., 8 I. C. C.
333; Commercial Club of Omaha v. C. & N. Ry., 7 I.
C. C. 386; Hathaway v. Cambridge Nat'l Bank, 134 U. S.
404; Int. Com. Comm. v. Louis. &.Nash. R. R., 227 U. S.
88, 91; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S. 648;
Lehigh Valley Ry. v. Clark, 207 Fed. Rep. 717; Lehigh
Valley Ry. v. Meeker, 211 Fed. Rep. 785; Logan v. Davis,
233 U. S. 613; McClure v. United States, 116 U. S. 145;
Meeker v. Lehigh Valley Ry., 236 U. S. 412; Mitchell Coal
Co. v. Penna.R. R., 230 U. S. 247; Naylor & Co. v. Lehigh
Valley Ry., 15 I. C. C. 9; New Haven R. R. v. Int. Com.

MILLS v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Comm., 200 U. S. 361; Penna. Ry. v. International Coal
Co., 230 U. S. 184; Parsons v. C. & N. Ry., 167 U. S. 447;
Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Dickerson, 191 Fed. Rep. 705;
Perry v. F., L. & Cen. Penn. Ry., 5 I. C. C. 97; Riverside
Mills v. Atlantic Coast Line, 168 Fed. Rep. 989; Seaboard
Air Line v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73; Slocum v. N. Y. Life
Ins. Co., 228 U. S. 364; Southern Ry. v. Tift, 206 U. S.
428; Stone v. United States, 164 U. S. 380; Tex. & Pac. Ry.
v. Abilene Cotton Co., 204 U. S. 426; Un. Pac. Ry. v. United
States, 116 U. S. 154; United States v. Balt. & Ohio Ry.,
226 U. S. 14, 20; United States v. Pugh, 99 U. S. 265;
United States v. N. Y. Indians, 173 U. S. 464; United
States v. Hill, 120 U. S. 169; Wright v. United States, 105
U. S. 381.
Mr. Henry S. Drinker, Jr., with whom Mr. Edgar H.
Boles, Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. Samuel Dickson
were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

During the years 1906 and 1907, Naylor & Companya firm of which the plaintiff in error is surviving partnerwere shippers of pyrites cinder over the lines of the defendants in error from Buffalo, New York, to points in
Pennsylvania and New Jersey. The published rate was
$2 per gross ton. On April 4, 1908, these shippers filed a
complaint with the Interstate Commerce Commission, alleging that the rate was 'excessive,' 'unreasonable' and
'unjustly discriminatory.' They asked that the railroad
companies be ordered to desist from exacting the rate,
that a lower rate be fixed, and that reparation be granted.
The defendants answered and, after hearing, the Commission made its report on January 5, 1909, holding 'that the
rate on pyrites cinder should not exceed the rate on iron
ore from Buffalo.' The rate on iron ore was $1.45 per

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

ton to points of destination to which there was a rate of
$2 on pyrites cinder. Reparation was refused. Naylor
& Company v. Lehigh Valley Railroad Company, 15 I. C.
C. 9. Order was made accordingly.
On May 8, 1909, Naylor & Company filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission a motion for a rehearing
on the question of reparation alone, and the motion was
granted. Additional evidence was taken and various sums
were awarded by the Commission against the respective
companies as reparation on shipments made within the
period of limitation. The order Was made on June 2, 1910.
In May, 1911, this suit was brought, pursuant to ยง 16
of the Act to Regulate Commerce, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
to recover the several amounts of money set forth 'as and
for damages and reparation' in accordance with the Commission's order. Issue was joined by a plea of not guilty.
Upon the trial, the two reports and orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission, above mentioned, were received in evidence over objection. There was testimony
that the amounts awarded had not been paid. That constituted the case for the plaintiffs, and the defendants offered no evidence. A request by the defendants for 'binding instructions' in their favor was refused. The case was
submitted to the jury with the instruction, in substance,
that the finding of the Commission was prima facie evidence of the facts and that it was for the jury to say
wlhether the plaintiffs were entitled to recover the amount
of money claimed. A verdict was returned for the plaintiffs in specified amounts which appear to be the same as
those awarded by the Commission with interest to date.
The defendants then moved for judgment non obstante
veredicto. The motion was dismissed and judgment ordered for the plaintiffs on October 30, 1912. At the same
time, the trial court allowed to the counsel for the plaintiffs a fee of $1,000 for their services in the proceedings

MILLS v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

before the Interstate Commerce Commission and a further fee of like amount for their services in this suit; and
to this allowance the defendants excepted. Exceptions
having also been taken to the refusal of the request of the
court to direct a verdict for the defendants, to the instruction given, and to the dismissal of the motion for judgment
non obstanle veredicto, proceedings in error were had before the Circuit Court of Appeals, where the judgment
was reversed, without directing a new trial. Lehigh Valley
R. R. v. Clark, 207 Fed. Rep. 717. And to review the
judgment, this writ of error has been prosecuted.
The grounds of the ruling of the court below .are: first,
that there were no sufficient findings of fact in the reports
of the Commission, as required by the statute; and, second, that the plaintiffs had failed to present any evidence
which made out a prima facie case of damage sustained.
That is, it is said that if the statements in the first report
of the Commission could be regarded as findings of fact
within the meaning of the statute so as to make them
prima facie evidence of the facts found, they were not
sufficient to support the plaintiffs' claim; and that there
were no facts found in the second report which entitled
the plaintiffs to go to the jury.
The fundamental question thus presented, with respect
to the effect of the Commission's reports and orders, has
recently been determined in Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh Valley
R.R. Co., 236 U. S. 412, and, in the light of the conclusion
there reached, little need now be said. In dealing with
the objection that the reports and orders of the Commission then before the court did not contain any findings of
fact, or at least not enough to sustain an award of damages,
it was held that the statute does not require a statement
of the evidential or primary facts. The court said: "We
think this is not the right view of the statute and that
what it requires is a finding of the ultimate facts-a
finding which, as applied to the present case, would dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 194.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

close (1) the relation of the parties as shipper and carrier
in interstate commerce; (2) the character and amount
of the traffic out of which the claims arose; (3) the rates
paid by the shipper for the service rendered and whether
they were according to the established tariff; (4) whether
and in what way unjust discrimination was practiced
against the shipper . . ; (5) whether, if there was unjust discrimination, the shipper was injured thereby, and,
if so, the amount of his damages; (6) whether the rate
collected from the shipper . . . was excessive and
unreasonable and, if so, what would have been a reasonable rate for the service; and (7) whether, if the rate was
excessive and unreasonable, the shipper was injured
thereby, and if so, the amount of his damages."
In the case now under consideration, the first report of
the Commission was concerned only with the rates which
should be charged. No reparation was allowed and no
findings whatever were made as to damages.
The second report is as follows:
"In the report made by this Commission following an
inquiry into the reasonableness of the raie of $2 per gross
ton exacted, by the defendants for the transportation of
pyrites cinder from Buffalo, N. Y., tb points in the States
of Pennsylvania and New Jersey the rate was "found excessive, and the defendants were ordered to establish a
rate not to exceed that contemporaneously applying on
shipments of iron ore between the same points. Reparation was denied. Naylor & Co. v. L. V. R. R. Co., 15 1. C.
C. 9.
"Pursuant to the Commission's order the defendants
reduced the rate on pyrites cinder to $1.45, the rate on iron
ore. The complainant thereupon filed a motion for- rehearing upon the question of reparation, and after consideration by the Commission the motion was granted.
Additional evidence was taken and the parties were heard
in oral argument.

MILLS v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"We now find that the rate of $2 per gross ton, assessed
and collected by the defendants on the shipments giving
rise to complaint, was unjust and unreasonable to the
extent that it exceeded the subsequently established rate of
$1.45 per gross ton. Complainant is entitled to reparation
on all shipments moving within the period of the statute
of limitations. DetroitChemical Works v. N. C. Ry. Co., 13
I. C. C. Rep. 357; Same v. Erie R. R. Co., 13 1. C. C. Rep.
363.
"The Buffalo, Rochester & Pittsburg Railway Company and the Philadelphia & Reading Railway Company
will be required to refund to the complainant $2,846.55,
with interest from November 21, 1907, as reparation for
the collection of unreasonable charges on 189 carloads of
pyrites cinder aggregating 5,175-1590/2240 tons in weight
moving from Buffalo to various Pennsylvania points.
"The New York Central & Hudson River Railroad
Company and the Philadelphia & Reading Railway Company will be required to refund to the complainant
$248.93, with interest from April 19, 1907, as reparation
for the collection of unreasonable charges on 13 carloads
of pyrites cinder aggregating 452-1370/2240 tons in
weight, moving from Buffalo to various Pennsylvania
points.
"The Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad Company and the Central Railroad Company of New Jersey
will be required to refund to the complainant $487.52,
with interest from September 23, 1907, as reparation for
the collection of unreasonable charges on 31 carloads of
pyrites cinder aggregating 886-960/2240 tons in weight,
moving from Buffalo to Newark, N. J.
"The Lehigh Valley Railroad Company and the Central Railroad Company of New Jersey will be required
to refund to the complainant $1,024.15, with interest from
November 13, 1907, as reparation for the collection of
unreasonable charges on 74 carloads of pyrites cinder

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

aggregating 1,862-220/2240 tons in weight, moving from
Buffalo to various Pennsylvania and New Jersey points.
"The Lehigh Valley Railroad Company and the Philadelphia & Reading Railway Company will be required
to refund to the complainant $2,362.23, with interest
from November 13, 1907, as reparation for the collection
of unreasonable charges on 172 carloads of pyrites cinder
aggregating 4,295-20/2240 tons in weight, moving from
Buffalo to various Pennsylvania and New Jersey points.
"It will be ordered accordingly."
This report, it will be observed, shows the relation of
the parties as shipper and carrier in interstate commerce;
the general character of the traffic involved and the
amount of the shipment with respect to which reparation
was claimed; the determination that the rate exacted
(which was specified) was unjust and unreasonable to the
extent that it exceeded the established rate (also specified);
and, further, the determination that the companies respectively should pay a stated amount 'as reparation for
the collection of unreasonable charges' on the quantities
mentioned. It is at once apparent that these findings
meet the test laid down in the Meeker Case, unless it can
be said that they were insufficient as to the amount of
damages suffered. Thus, there would seem to be no room
for question that the finding that the rate charged was
unreasonable is a sufficient finding. The Commission
stated: "We now find that the rate of $2 per gross tofi,
assessed and collected by the defendants on the shipments giving rise to complaint, was unjust and unreasonable to the extent that it exceeded the subsequently established rate of $1.45 per gross ton." It is insisted that, in
view of the provisions of the first order, and the Commission's description of it in the second report, the essential
basis of the ruling was not the inherent reasonableness of
the rate established but its relation to the rate on a competitiVe commodity. We think, however, that the specific

MILLS v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. R.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

finding in the second report that the rate exacted 'was unjust and unreasonable' to the extent specified, was a finding
as to the ultimate fact of unreasonableness which should
be taken precisely as made. The finding in this respect
is substantially the same as that in the second Meeker
Case (236 U. S. 434, 435, 436).
As to the amount of damage sustained, there would be
no question if the Commission had found, as in the case
last cited, that the shipper 'was damaged' to the amount
mentioned. The distinction attempted to be drawn is
that in the case referred to there was a statement that the
shipper 'was damaged' while in the present case the Commission held that he was entitled to the stated amount 'as
reparation.' In both cases, the amount actually allowed
was the difference between the amount charged and that
which would have been payable at the rate sanctioned.
The difference between the findings in the two cases, we
think, is merely in the form of words used.
When the Commission made the award 'as reparation'
they undoubtedly expressed the decision, as a matter of
ultimate fact, that there was injury to this extent to be
repaired. No other intelligent construction can be put
upon their statement. If, as was held in the second Meeker
Case, a finding of the amount of damage as a finding of
ultimate fact is sufficient, the expression of that finding
is not confined to a particular formula. What the Commission decided was that the shippers were entitled to
reparation, that is, to be made whole, to be compensated
for a loss because of an illegal and unreasonable exaction,
and the amount which they stated as the sum to be paid
'as reparation' on the specified shipments was the amount
which they found necessary to accomplish the reparation,-to afford the compensation. The statute was not
concerned with mere forms of expression and in view of
the decision that a finding of the ultimate fact of the
amount of damage is enough to give the order of the
VOL. ccxxxviii-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

Commission effect as prima facie evidence, we think that
the trial court did not err in its ruling. The statutory

provision merely established a rule of evidence. It leaves
every opportunity to the defendant to contest the claim.
But when the Commission has found that there was
damage to a specified extent, prima facie the damage is
shown; and, according to the fair import 'of its decision,
the Commission did find the amount of damage in this
case.

There was error, however, in the allowance of the fee for
services before the Commission. 236 U. S. 432, 433.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and that of the District Court is modified by striking out
the allowance of $1,000 as attorney's fee for services before
the Commission, and is affirmed as so modified.
It is so ordered.

THE SOUTHWESTERN

TELEGRAPH & TELE-

PHONE COMPANY v. DANAHER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 43.

Submitted March 17, 1914. Restored to docket April 6, 1914.
Reargued April 22, 1914.-Decided June 21, 1915.

While it is not open in this court to revise the construction placed on a
state statute by the state court, it is open to determine whether the
application of the statute as so construed is so arbitrary as to so
contravene the fundamental principles of justice as to amount to
deprivation of property without due process of law.
The rates of public service corporations, such as telephone companies,
are fixed in expectation that they will be paid, and reasonable regulations tending towards prompt payment are necessary as the ability
of such corporation to serve the public depends upon the prompt
collection of their rates.
Collection of such rates by legal process being practically, prohibitive,

