CHI., MIL. & ST. P. R. R. v. WISCONSIN.
238 U. S.

491

Syllabus.

judicially testing the regulation's reasonableness in advance of acting under it, and, as we have seen, it had the
support of repeated adjudications in other jurisdictions.
In these circumstances to inflict upon the company penalties aggregating $6,300 was so plainly arbitrary and
oppressive as to be nothing short of a taking of its property without due process of law. Missouri Pacific Ry.
v. Tucker, 230 U." S. 340, 351, and cases cited; Wadley
Southern Ry. Co. v. Georgia, 235 U. S. 651, 661-666;
Vaught v. East Tennessee Telephone Co., 123 Tennessee,
318, 328.
It follows that the rulings of the trial court as sustained
by the Supreme Court of the State tended to deprive the
defendant of a right secured and protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment reversed.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILROAD COMPANY v. STATE OFWISCONSIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.
No. 177.

Argued March 8, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

A State cannot authorize an individual to take salable property from
another without pay-it amounts to deprivation of property without
due process of law.
An owner's right to his property is protected even though he may not
be actually using it, and the State cannot, under the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, compel an owner of property
to allow a third party to have free use thereof until such time as a
buyer appears.
A state statute that doe not purport to be a health measure cannot
be sustained as such.
A state statute which is not a reasoftbe exercise of the police power

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

and yet operates to take property cannot be justified on the ground
that the party whose property it takes may be able to get an increase
in the rates obtained for property not taken. The taking of property
and a fixed right to compensation must coincide.
While the right of the State to regulate public carriers in the interest
of the public is very great, it does not warrant unreasonable interference with the right of management or the taking of the carrier's
property without compensation.
The reserved right of altering and amending the charter of a corporation does not confer mere arbitrary power or authorize the taking
of the corporation's property without compensation.
The statute of Wisconsin imposing penalties on sleeping car companies
if, the lower berth of a sleeping car being occupied, the upper berth
was let down before it was actually engaged, is unconstitutional under
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as an arbitrary
taking of property without compensation; nor can it be justified as
a health measure under the police power of the State or as amendment or alteration of the charter of the corporation under the reserved
power of the State in that respect.
152 Wisconsin, 348, reversed.
IN 1911 the State of Wisconsin passed a statute impuing a penalty upon Sleeping Car Companies if,-the
lower berth being occupied-the upper berth was let
down before it was actually engaged. Suit was brought
against the plaintiff in error for the recovery of the statutory penalty, based on the fact that on the night of August 11, 1911, James T. Hall boarded the Company's
sleeping car at Portage, Wisconsin. He engaged lower
berth, Section 11 and occupied the same, as an intrastate
passenger, between Portage, Wisconsin, and Star Lake,
Wisconsin. The upper berth of No. 11 was not engaged
or occupied, but was let down and kept down during
the night by the porter.
The Company answered that its cars, like those of
others in the United States, were so arranged as to provide units consisting of lower berths, upper berths, sections, drawing rooms and compartments; that the lower
berth and upper berth units are so arranged that when

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. R. R. v. WISCONSIN.
238 U. S.

493

Statement of the Case.

prepared for occupancy each of said units is a cOmpartment separated from all other space in the car; that
the charge for the use of each of said units is fixed by
tariffs established by the State of Wisconsin and by the
Interstate Commerce Commission respectively. Under
the Wisconsin law the rate from Portage to Star Lake was
$1.50 for a lower berth, $1.20 for the upper berth, and
$2.70 for the section. It was averred and admitted that
Hall, while demanding of the defendant's conductor" that
the upper berth be put back and kept there, so that he
might have the use of the entire section, paid for the use
of the lower berth only and did not offer to pay the tariff
for the entire section."
The Railroad Company further averred that it operated
sleeping cars over its system of more than 7,000 miles of
interstate roads, and that the Interstate Commerce Commission had prescribed rates for each of said sleeping car
units on.trains running to and from the State of Wisconsin.
The rate fixed for the upper was 80 per cent. of the charge
for the use of the lower; the price for the whole section
being the sum of the two rates. No order had been made
by the Interstate Commission which prohibits the use of
the upper berth while the lower berth is occupied. It was
averred that a compliance with the Wisconsin statute
would convenience the occupant of the particular lower
berth only, and would not add to the comfort or promote
the health, safety or convenience of the other occupants of
the car, but would injuriously affect passengers occupying
lower berths.
The Company insisted that the statute was arbitrary
and unreasonable; not designed to accomplish a legitimate
public purpose and contrary to natural justice. It claimed
that the statute denied to it the equal protection of the
laws; took its property without due process of law in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment and attempted to
regulate interstate commerce.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

There was a hearing before the court without a jury.
Some of the averments in the Railroad's answer were
admitted to be true. In addition witnesses were sworn
whose testimony-admitted over objection-was to the
effect that-while the Company had a pecuniary interest
in having the upper berth kept down when the lower was
occupied yet,-such lowering was necessary to secure the
comfort of the occupant of the lower berth and to prevent
him or her from being wakened or disturbed if it became
necessary to put down the upper berth and arrange it so
that it could be.'occupied by a passenger who had purchased such upper space during the night. The evidence
was to the effect that the opening of the curtains, the glare
of the light, the noise of lowering the berth, the work of
arranging the bedding for the upper berth and securing the
holding wires would necessarily inconvenience the man or
woman occupying the lower berth; deprive him or her of
the privacy to which they were entitled and interrupt the
rest and sleep to secure which they had engaged the berth.
There was evidence that an ordinary sleeping car was
better ventilated than an ordinary passenger coach, said
to be due to the fact that the coach not only carried more
passengers but did not have the ventilating appliances in
use on sleeping cars.
There was in addition much evidence, admitted over
objection, to prove the methods by which and the .extent
to which sleeping cars were ventilated. It appeared that a
car of ordinary size contained about 5,000 cubic feet of air
and that, by means of a series of suction ventilators,
operated by the movement of the train, the air therein was
sucked through openings in the top of the car. The faster
the movement the more rapid the suction. By measuring
the air escaping through the ventilators, it had been shown
that when the train was running at 35 miles an hour the
air in the sleeping car was renewed every two minutes.
This air was replaced by that coming through doors, end

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. R. R. v. WISCONSIN.
238 U. S.

495

Statement of the Case.

openings for ventilating purposes, screens or windows as
the case might be. There was also testimony that when
the upper berth was down and the curtains closed the air
came in and went out of the lower berth through windows,
screens, air spaces, and numerous openings between the
curtain and the bed.
There was evidence that while the circulation in the
lower berth was not so good as that in the aisle, yet the air
in the car and in such lower berth was not injurious to
health as demonstrated by repeated chemical analyses of
samples of air taken from such lower berths, from the aisles
and from other portions of the cars. There was evidence,
and contention based on common knowledge, that the
letting down of the upper berth did not affect the health or
convenience of the occupants of the car or of either berth.
This was demonstrated by the absence of injurious effects
and the fact that lower berths with the upper berths down
had thus been constantly used by travellers since sleeping
cars were invented.
There was further evidence that the car in question was
arranged substantially like those operated by sleeping
car companies throughout the United States. In all of
them the upper berth was regularly put down when the
lower was occupied, unless the whole section was engaged
by one person. There was a further contention that this
was true in every State in the Union,-no one of which
prohibited the letting down of the upper when the lower
was occupied.
The court found as a fact"That the closing of upper berths in sleeping-cars has
very little effect upon the circulation of air in such sleepingcars when all lower berths are made up and ready for
occupancy.
"That the lowering of upper berths does not endanger
the lives, health or safety of persons occupying lower
berths in sleeping-cars.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

"That the closing of the upper berth will be a convenience to the person occupying the berth below the same
and will add to the comfort of such person alone and not
to that of the public generally.
"That the defendant has a right to charge for the use of
the space occupied by the upper berth and that such right
is the property of the defendant."
He concluded, as matter of law, that the State was not
entitled to recover the penalty and dismissed the complaint. The case was then taken to the Supreme Court
of Wisconsin, which (152 Wisconsin, 348) said that
"'the trial court held that the evidence showed a compliance with the act would affect the convenience and
comfort of the traveling public in but a slight degree,'
but that . . . the court's view of the evidence was
evidently the result of the court's erroneous idea of what,
in the legal sense, is essential to present an occasion or
exigency involving the general welfare." The court further said "that in the light of common knowledge the
evidence in the case tends to show that the effects of the
regulation contribute to the comfort and convenience of
the traveling public and thereby contribute to promote
their health and general welfare," that the regulating
"statute was a legal exercise of the police power;" and
that the regulations only incidentally affect interstate
commerce. The "law permits berths -to be occupied and
used when any person desires them and thus the defendant
is secured against loss for services it may be able to furnish
the public.
."
It thereupon reversed the judgment of the trial court. The Railroad Company then
brought the case here assigning as error that the judgment
sustaining the statute deprived it of property without due
process of law, interfered with its management of cars and
made a discrimination between the privileges accorded
state and interstate passengers in the same car at the same
time.

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. R. R. v, WISCONSIN.
238 U. S.

497

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, with whom Mr. Burton Hanson
and Mr. Gustavus S. Fernaldwere on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:
Chapter 272 of the 1911 laws of Wisconsin deprives
plaintiff in error of its property without due process of law,
and denies to it the equal protection of the laws in taking
its property for public use without compensation, and is
therefore in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States.
Chapter 272 of the 1911 laws of Wisconsin is a regulation
of commerce among the States, and is void under ยง 8 of
Art. I of the Constitution of the United States.
Numerous authorities of this and other courts support
these contentions.
Mr. Walter Drew, Deputy Attorney General of the
State of Wisconsin, with whom Mr. W. C. Owen, Attorney
General of the State of Wisconsin, was on the brief, for
defendant in error:
The highest court of the State has construed the statute
and held it constitutional.
The Wisconsin Upper Berth Law is a legitimate exercise
of the police -power of the State in behalf of the public
health and welfare.
The law does not violate any rights of the plaintiff in
error guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment nor is it
unconstitutional as a regulation of interstate commerce.
The law is a valid exercise of the power reserved to the
state legislature by ยง 1 of Art. XI of the state constitution
to alter the corporate franchise of the plaintiff in error.
Numerous authorities of this and other courts support
these contentions.
MVIR. JUSTIcE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

There have been two statutes in Wisconsin relating to
VOL.

ccxxxvii-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

letting down the upper berth when the lower was occupied.
The first Ileft the matter to the decision of the occupant
of the lower berth. The second 2 absolutely prohibits the
upper from being let down before it is engaged or occupied.
Concerning the act of 1907, which provided that the
occupant of the lower "should have the right to direct
whether the unoccupied upper should be opened or
closed," the Supreme Court (State v. Redmon, 134 Wisconsin, 89, 103) held that the statute was "not a police
regulation, but an unwarranted interference with property
rights; an attempt . . . to give any person at -his
option who pays for a part of a section in a sleeping
car the use, free of charge, of the balance thereof; an
obvious . . . attempt . . . to appropriate the
property of one for the benefit of another in violation of
several constitutional safeguards that might be referred
to, but particularly the guarantee that no person shall
be . . . deprived of life, liberty or property without
due process of law." .
.
"It follows that the
arbitrary appropriation in the name of law of the space
of an upper berth in a sleeping car for the greater comfort
and safety, as regards the health of the occupant of the
lower berth at his option,
is highly oppressive.
1. But the language of the Act of 1911, now under re"An act . . . relating to the health and comfort of occupants
of sleeping-car berths.
"SEc. 1. Whenever a person pays for the use of a double lower berth
in a sleeping-car, he shall have the right to direct whether the upper
berth shall be open or closed, unless the upper berth is actually occupied
by some other person; and the proprietor of the car and the person in
charge of it shall comply with such direction." Laws of 1907, c. 266.
2 "1. Whenever a person shall engage and occupy a lower berth in
a sleeping-car, and the upper berth of the same section shall at the same
time be neither engaged nor occupied, the upper berth shall not be
let down, but shall remain closed until engaged or occupied." Laws of
1911.

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. R. R. v. WISCONSIN.
238 U. S.

499

Opinion of the Court.

view, does not remove the fundamental objectiofi to thAt
class of legislation. For as the State could not authorize
the occupant of the lower berth to take salable space
without pay, neither can the present statute compel the
Company to give that occupant the free use of that space
until it is actually purchased by another passenger. The
owner's right to property is protected even when it is not
actually in use, and the Company cannot be compelled to
permit a third person to have the free use of such property
until a buyer appears.
2. While this principle is recognized, it is said that this
Act of 1911 was not passed for the purpose of benefiting
the occupant of the lower berth, but as a health measure
and in the interest of all the occupants of the car. But
the statute does not purport to be a health measure, and
cannot be sustained as such. For if lowering the upper
berth injuriously interfered with the ventilation of the
car and the health of the passengers it would follow that
upper berths should not be lowered; and if it was harmful
to let down the uppers it would be even more harmful to
permit additional passengers to come into the car and
occupy them. The testimony of witnesses and common
knowledge coincide with the trial court's finding of fact
that the lowering of upper berths does not endanger the'
lives, health or safety of persons occupying the-lower berth
and that keeping the upper closed will not add to the comfort of the public generally. Lake Shore &c. Ry. v. Smith,
173 U. S. 692. There are some inconveniences and discomforts incident to traveling on, a sleeping car, but none
of those resulting from the lowering of the upper berth
are of a character that can be treated as a nuisance eitherin law or in fact. For lowering the upper berth is not only
not treated as a nuisance or a serious inconvenience and
discomfort to passengers, but the language of the statute
itself recognizes that the 'sleeping car company might
lawfully sell all of the upper berths and have each of them

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S

occupied. The same is true of the order of the State Commission fixing a rate of $1.50 for the lower berth, $1.20 for
the upper berth, and $2.70 for the section. This treats
that the space in the section is salable, as a whole or in
parts; and, if the space is thus lawfully salable, it is property entitled to protection.
3. The State Supreme Court cited Lawton v. Steele, 152
U. S. 133; Lake Shore & M. S. Ry. v. Ohio, 173 U. S.
285; Atlantic Coast Line v. North Carolina Corp. Comm.,
206 U. S. 1; New York, N. I1. & H. R. R. v. New York,
165 U. S. 628; and after discussing the extent of the police
power and the conditions under which it can be exercised, held that it was a reasonable exercise of such
power to prohibit the upper berth from being lowered if
not engaged or occupied, saying that "if compliance with
this [statutory] conmand imposes extra burdens, they
are not of such an unusual nature as to be oppressive; and
if it involves additional costs in the conduct of the business, then the defendant can readily be secured against
such loss by having the rate adjusted to meet this burden."
But if the statute is not a reasonable exercise of the police
power and yet operates to take property, such taking
cannot be justified on the ground that the Company may.
be able to secure an increase in rates. For, without considering any other question involved, it is sufficient to say
that the taking and a fixed right to compensation must
coincide, though in some cases the time for payment may
be delayed.. Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380, 400.
4. The plaintiff also insists that the requirement that
the upper berth should not be let down until actually
engaged also deprives the Company of its right of management and prevents it from conducting its business so as to
secure the privacy of the man or woman occupying the
lower berth. It is hot necessary to refer to the evidence on
that subject because it is a matter of common knowledge
that to let down the upper berth during the night would

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. R. R. v. WISCONSIN.
238 U.S.

501

Opinion of the Court.

necessarily be an intrusion upon the privacy of those
occupying lower berths. For the glare of the lights and the
noise of lowering the upper berth would disturb any except
the soundest sleepers. In this respect the statute would
lessen the ability of the Company to furnish the place of
sleep and rest which it offers to the public. A sleeping car
may not be an "inn on wheels," but the operating company does engage to furnish its patrons with a place in
which they can rest without intrusion upon their privacy.
Holding out these inducements and seeking this patronage,
the Company is entitled to the privilege of managing its
business in its own way so long as it does not injuriously
affect the health, comfort, safety and convenience of the
public. The right of the State to regulate public carriers
in the interest of the public is very great. But that great
power does not warrant an unreasonable interference with
the right of management or the taking of the carrier's
property without compensation. Lake Shore & Michigan
Ry. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684; Northern Pacific Ry. v. State
of North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585; State of Washington ex rel.
Oregon R. R. v. Fairchild, 224 U. S. 510, 529; Missouri
Ry. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403, 417; Great Northern v.
R. R. Commission, just decided, ante, p. 340.
5. In the brief of counsel for the State it is argued that
the statute can be sustained as a valid exercise of the
State's reserved power to alter the charter of the Company. That question does not seem to have been raised in
the state court, nor was its decision based on that proposition. Indeed such a ruling would seem to have been
opposed to State ex rel. Northern Pacific v. R. R. Commission, 140 Wisconsin, 157, and the Water Power Cases, 148
Wisconsin, 124, where it was held that the right to amend
a charter does not authorize the taking of the Company's
property without just compensation. The same view has
been repeatedly expressed in the decisions of this court.
For example in Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 324, it was said

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

that "the power of alteration and amendment is not without limit. The alterations must be reasonable
and consistent with the scope and object of the act of
incorporation." . . . Again in Stearns v. Minnesota,
179 U. S. 223, 259, it was held that the reserved right to
amend a corporate charter "does not confer mere arbitrary power, and cannot be so exercised as to violate
fundamental principles of justice by . . . taking of
property without due process of law." Lake Shore &c.
Ry. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 690; Stanislaus Co. v. San Joaquin
Co., 192 U. S. 201; Sinking-Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 720;
Miller v. State, 15 Wall. 498; see also Delaware, Lackawanna &c. v. Board of Public Utilities, 85 N. J. L. 28, 38,
where it was held that, under such a power, the Company
could not be required to furnish free transportation to certain designated officials. This conclusion makes it unnecessary to discuss the assignments relating to interstate
commerce.
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded to the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin for further proceedings not in
conflict with this opuinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES dissent.

