CASES

ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 673. Argued March 1, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.
The general rule is that the Appellate Court will not interfere with the
decision of the Chancellor refusing an interlocutory injunction unless
abuse of discretion clearly appears; where, however, the order sought
to be enjoined operates to reduce revenue the Chancellor's discretion
should bp influenced by the fact that the decree, though interlocutory, ma be the equivalent of a final decree.
The fact that irreparable injury might result from orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission, unless interlocutory injunctions might
be granted restraining their enforcement, undoubtedly influenced
Congress to enact the provision in the Act of October 22, 1913, for
a direct appeal to this PAurt from an order granting or denying, after
notice and hearing, an interlocutory injunction.
Where appellants are able to concede that there was evidence which,
although conflicting, tended to support the findings of the Commission, the practice of omitting the'testimony and simply insisting in
this court that the findings are insufficient to support the orders is
commendable, not only as a saving of expense of printing the record
but also of eliminating such testimony, as is necessarily immaterial
in an appellate court which cannot reverse findings if supported by
any substantial evidence, even though the evidence be conflicting.
The new Equity Rules (75, 76, 77) call for a winnowing out of the useo.
(1)
VOL. CCXXXVI-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

less; the presentation of only relevant evidence and exhibits; the
elimination of reduplications of oral and written evidence and condensation into narrative form of What is material to the issue before
the court.
Where an existing freight rate is attacked, the burden is on complainant to show that it is unreasonable in fact; this rule especially applies
when the rate has been in force for a long period, during which the
traffic has greatly increased in volume.
Market price of property and work is affected by so many and varying
factors that it is impossible to lay down fixed rules for ascertaining
actual value; a common measure, however, is by comparison with
amounts charged for the same article by different persons. This
applies to some extent to freight charges by carriers.
Mere distance is not necessarily a determining factor in fixing freight
rates; competition by water and rail and in the markets largely enter
into such determination.
While mere comparison of rates does not necessarily tend to establish
reasonableness of either, the finding of one of many rates to be higher
than all the others may give rise to the presumption that the single
rate is high; and if some of the lower rates had been prescribed by the
Interstate Commerce Commission, there is a prima facie standard
for testing the reasonableness of the rate under investigation.
The Interstate Commerce Commission having in this case, after consideration of much and varied evidence as to the rates charged on
coal to Nashville, fixed the amount of the rate in light of the findings made on such testimony, and as the rate fixed is not claimed
to be confiscatory, this court holds that the findings support the
order fixing the rate.
An order in this case requiring a carrier to extend to connecting carriers, as to competitive business, the same switching facilities that
it extends to some of the other connecting carriers, in regard to the
same class of business, is not violative of the due process provision
of the Fifth Amendment, nor does it violate the provision in § 15 of
the Commerce Act that a carrier shall not be required to give the
use of its tracks or terminals to another carrier engaged in like busi-,
ness. Pennsylvania v. United States, 236 U. S. 351.
216 Fed. Rep. 672, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission establishing rates on coal
and also requiring the carrier to furnish certain switching
facilities to connecting carriers, are stated in the opinion.

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Mr. William A. Colston, with whom Mr. Henry L. Stone,
Mr. Claude Waller, Mr. John B. Keeble and Mr. Win. A.
Northcutt were on the brief, for appellants:
If the facts found do not as a matter of law support the
orders made, or if the Commission was without jurisdiction to make the orders, or if the orders result in taking
appellants' property without due process of law, the interlocutory injunction should have been granted.
The facts found with respect to the coal rates do not,
as a matter of law, support the order fixing rates.
The Commission was without jurisdiction to make the
order fixing rates.
The enforcement of the Commission's order fixing rates
takes appellants' property without due process of law.
The facts found by the Commission do not, as a matter
of law, support the order as to switching practices.
The Commission was without jurisdiction to make the
order as to switching practices.
The enforcement of the order as to switching practices
takes appellants' property without due process of law.
The appellants have made out their case for a temporary
injunction.
In support of these contentions, see Buffalo Gas Co. v.
Buffalo, 156 Fed. Rep. 370; Chicago Live Stock Ex. v. C. G.
W. Ry., 10 I. C. C. 428; Cotting v. Kansas City Stockyards,
183 U. S. 79; E. T., V. & G. Ry. v. Int. Com. Comm., 181
U. S. 1; Fla. East Coast Ry. v. United States, 234 U. S. 167;
Grand Trunk Ry. v. Michigan R. R. Comm., 231 U. S.
472; Int. Com. Comm. v. Ala. Mid. Ry., 168 U. S. 144;
Int. Com. Comm. v. C., B. & Q. Ry., 168 U. S. 320; Int.
Com. Comm. v. C. G. W. Ry., 209 U. S. 108, 119; Int. Com.
Comm. v. Clyde S. S. Co., 181 U. S. 29; Int. Com. Comm.
v. C., R. I. & P. R. R., 218 U. S. 88, 101; Int. Com. Comm.
v. Ill. Cent. R. R., 215 1J. S. 452; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42; Int. Com. Comm. v. Louis. &
Nash. R. R., 227 U. S. 88, 90-92; Int. Com. Comm. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellants.

238 U. S.

Louis. & Nash. R. R., 190 U. S. 273; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Louis. & Nash. R. R., 73 Fed. Rep. 409; Int. Com. Comm.
v. Nor. Pac.Ry., 216 U. S. 538; Int. Com. Comm. v. Stickney, 215 U. S. 98; IntermountainRate Cases, 234 U. S. 476;
Indianapolis Gas Co. v. Indianapolis, 82 Fed. Rep. 245;
K. & I. Bridge v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 37 Fed. Rep. 567;
L. R. & M. Ry. v. St. L., I. M. & S. Ry., 41 Fed. Rep. 559;
S. C., 59 Fed. 'Rep. 400; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Siler, 186
Fed. Rep. 176; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Stockyards Co.,
212 U. S. 139; Louis. & Nosh. R. R. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S.
648; Memphis Freight Bweau v. Louis. & Nash. R.. R.,
26 I. C. C. 402; Merchant Ass'n of Baltimore v. Penna.
R. R., 23 1. C. C. 474; Morms Iron Co. v. Balt. & Oh. R. R.,
26 I. Cf. C. 240; New Memphis Gas Co. v. Memphis, 72
Fed. Rep. 952; Pac. Tel. Co. v. Los Angeles, 192 Fed. Rep.
1009; Philadelphia Co. v. 'Stimson, 223 U. S. 605; Raymond v. Chicago Un. Tract. Co., 207 U. S. 20; Reagan v.
Farmers L. &' T. Co., 154. U. S. 362; Slider v. Southern
Ry., 24 I. C. C. 312, 313; Southern Ry. v. St. Louis Hay
Co., 214 U. S. 297; Spring Valley Water Co. v. San Francisco, 165 Fed. Rep. 667; Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S.
1; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Int. Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 197;
United States v. La. & Pac. Ry., 234 U. S. 1; United
States v. St. Louis Terminal Assn., 224 U. S. 383; Waverly
Oil Works v. Penna. R. R., 28 I. C. C. 621; Burke's
Works (11) Boston ed., 1869; 22 Cyc. 751, 755, 782, 783,
822; High on Injunctions, § 13, pp. 19, 20; 1 History of
English Law, p. XXVII; 2 Wigmore on Evidence, § 1353,
p. 1666.
The ultimate findings of fact or conclusions of the
Interstate Commerce Commission as to reasonableness or
discrimination are subject to judicial review.
It was not necessary nor even desirable upon the
motion for an interlocutory injunction to bring up the
voluminous record before the Interstate Commerce Commission.

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

5

Argument for AppeUants.

The facts found with respect to the rate order do not,
as a matter of law, support the order fixing rates, and
the Commission was without jurisdiction to make that
order.
The facts found with respect to the order as to switching
practices do not, as a matter of law, support that order,
and the Commission was without jurisdiction to make the
order
as to switching practices.
Extracts
from the debates on the Hepburn Bill show
that Congress has not changed the rule as to review of
the Commission's finding of fact by the judicial power of
the Government, and that the conclusions of the Interstate Commerce Commission are subject to judicial review.
Extracts from the debates on the Hepburn Bill show
that the amendment of § 1 of the Act to Regulate
Commerce, defining the term "transportation" was
intended to prevent unjust discrimination which necessarily arises from the ownership and control of facilities of transportation by shippers and receivers of
freight.
In support of these contentions+ see cases supra and
Bowling Green v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 24 I. C. C. 228;
C., M. & St. P. Ry. v. Minnesota, 134 U, S. 456; Nashville v. Louis. .& Nash. R. R., 33 I. C. C. 76; Cohens v.
Virginia, 6 Wheat. 399; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123;
Florida East Coast Ry. v. United States, 234 U. S. 167;
FloridaShippers v. Atl. Coast Line, 14 1. C. C. 476; S. C.,
17 I. C. C. 552; S. C., 22 I. C. C. 1.1; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Union Pacific R. R., 222 U. S. 541; In re FinancialRelations &c. of Carriers,33 I. C. C. 168; Lebanon Commercial
Club v. Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co., 28 I. C. C. 301; Mt.
Pleasant Fertilizer Co. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., No. 6186,
before I. C. C., Unreported No. A-748; Pennsylvania Co.
v. United States, 236 U. S. 351; Slider v. Southern Ry. Co.,
24 1. C. C. 312, 313; United States v. Louis. & Yash. R. R.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United States.

238 U. S.

235 U. S. 314; United States v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 236
U. S. 318.
Mr. Solicitor General Davis for the United States:
The granting or refusing of an interlocutory injunction
is a matter in the sound discretion of the court, and is not
to be reviewed unless this discretion has been abused.
No such abuse here appears. Buffington v. Harvey, 95
U. S. 99, 100; Thompson v. Nelson, 71 Fed. Rep. 339;
Vogel v. Warsing, 146 Fed. Rep. 949; American Grain
Separator Co. v. Twin City Separator Co., 202 Fed. Rep.
202; Samson Cordage Works v. Puritan Cordage Mills, 211
Fed. Rep. 603.
The order of the Commission declaring the coal rate unreasonable involves a question of fact, and is neither without substantial evidence to support it, nor contrary to the
indisputable character of the evidence.
The reasohableness of a rate is a question of fact, and
the finding of the Commission thereon is conclusive unless it be without substantial evidence to support it or
contrary to the indisputable character of the evidence.
Ill. Cent. R. R. v. Int. Com. Comm., 206 U. S. 441, 455;
Int. Com. Comm. v. Chicago & Alton R. R., 215 U. S. 479;
Int. Com. Comm. v. Ill. Cent. R. R., 215 U. S. 452; Int.
Com. Comm. v. C., R. I. & P. Ry., 218 U. S. 88, 110; Int.
Com. Comm. v. Del., Lack. & West. R. R., 220 U. S. 235;
Int. Com. Comm. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 227 U. S. 88;
Los Angeles Switching Case, 234 U. S. 294; United States v.
Louis. & Nash. R. R., 235 U. S. 314.
The order of the Commission as to discriminatory
switching practices likewise involves $ question of fact,
as to which the finding of the Commission is neither without substantial evidence to support it nor contrary to
the indisputable character of the evidence. Nor does
it violate any constitutional or statutory right of appellauts.

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

7

Argument for Interstate Commerce Commission.

Undue discrimination is a question of fact within the
peculiar province of the Commission. Int. Com. Comm.
v. Alabama Midland Ry., 168 1?. S. 144, 170; Penna.R. R.
v. InternationalCoal Co., 230 U. S. 184, 196; Mitchell Coal
Co. v. Penna. R. R., 230 U. S. 247; United States v. Louis.
& Nash. R. R., 235 U. S. 314.
Penna. Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 351, as to switching practices, is decisive of this case.
Mr. Charles W. Needham, with whom Mr. Joseph W.
Folk was on the brief, for Interstate Commerce Commission:
All the matters in controversy were cognizable by the
Commission.
There was substantial evidence before the Commission
to support the orders in question.
The evidence was sufficient as to reasonableness of rates
involved. The orders were based upon probative evidence
and were not arbitrary.
On the facts of record before it the Commission was
empowered to require appellants to cease and desist from
their unjust discrimination with respect to switching practices at Nashville.
The order with respect to switching practices does not
deprive appellants of their property without due compensation, in violation of the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
There was no error in the refusal of the District Court
to grant appellants' motion for an. interlocutory injunction.
In support of these contentions, see Armour Packing
Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry.
v. United States, 232 U. S. 199; Balt. & Ohio R. R. v.
PitcairnCoal Co., 215 U. S. 481; Beebe v. Guinault, 29 La.
Ann. 795; Bonand v. Denesi, 42 Georgia, 639; Castoriano
v. Dupe, 145 N. Y. 250: Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. v. Iowa,

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

238 U. S.

233 U. S. 334; Newton v. Levis, 79 Fed. Rep. 715; Colonial
City Trackage Co. v.. Kingston City R. R., 153 N. Y. 540;
Grand Trunk Ry. v. Michigan Railway Commission, 231
U' S. 457; Higginson v. C., B. & Q. Ry., 102 Fed. Rep.
197; Houston & Texas Ry. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342;
Ill. Cent. Ry. v. Int. Com. Comm., 206 U. S. 441; Int. Com.
Comm. v. Alabama Midland Ry., 168 U. S. 144; Int. Com.
Comm. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R., 225 U. S, 306; Int.
Com. Comm. v. C., R. I. & P. Ry., 218 U. S. 88; Int. Com.
Comm. v. D., L. & W. Ry., 220 U. S. 235; Int. Com.
Comm. v. Ill. Cent. R. R., 215 U. S. 452; Int. Com. Comm.
v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 227 U. S. 88; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Nor. Pac. Ry., 216 U.,S. 538; Int. Com. 'Comm. v. Un. Pac.
R. R., 222 U. S. 541; Jones v. Thatcher, 48 Georgia, 83;
Kelley v. Boettscher, 89 Fed. Rep. 125; Kerr v, New Orleans, 126 Fed. Rep. 920; Lighterage Cases, 225 U. S. 306;
Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Finn [Jan., 1915j; MacLaury v.
Hart, 121 N. Y. 636; McHenry v. Jewett, 90 N. Y. 58;
Memphis Freight Bureau v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 26
I. C. C. 402; Baltimore Merchants Assn. v. Penna. R. R.,
23 I. C. C. 474; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Mo.
Pac. Ry. v. Larabee Mills, 211 U. S. 612; N. Y., New
Haven & H. R. R. v. Int. Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 361;
Procter & Gamble v. United States, 225 U. S. 282; Rock
Island Ry. v. Rio Grande R.. R., 143 U. S. 590; Schneider
v. Rochester, 155 N. Y. 619; Southern Pac. Co. v. Earl, 82
Fed. Rep. 690; So. Pac. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 219 U. S.
433; Strasser v. Moonelis, 108 N. Y. 611; Tex. & Pac. Ry.
v. Abilene Cotton Co., 204 U. S. 426; Un. Pac. Ry. v. Chi.
&c. Ry., 163 U. S. 563; United States v. Louis. & Nash. R.
R., 235 U. S. 314; Wisconsin &c. R. R. v. Jacobson, 179
U. S..287; Workingmen's Council v. United States, 57 Fed.
Rep. 85; Young v. R. K. G. L. Co., 129 N. Y. 57.
Mr. A. G. Ewing, Jr., with whom Mr. T. J. McMorrough
was on the brief, for the city of Nashville.

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

9

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
The Traffic Bureau of Nashville instituted proceedings
before the Commerce Commission against the Louisville
& Nashville, Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis, Tennessee Central, Illinois Central R. R. Companies, and the
Nashville Terminal Company, seeking (1) a reduction of
the $1 rate on coal and (2) to require a discontinuance of
what was alleged to be a discriminatory switching practice
in the yard at Nashville. After an elaborate hearing, in
which volumes of. testimony were taken, the Commission
found that the $1 coal rate was unreasonable, and established an 80 cent rate. It also passed an order requiring
the Railroad Companies to discontinue the discrimination
in furnishing switching facilities. Thereupon the two
Railroad Companies, first named, appellants herein, filed
a bill in the District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee against the United States, the Commerce Comnission and. others attacking the validity of these two orders.
The application for a temporary injunction having been
denied the case was appealed to this court.
1. On the argument here the Appellants insisted that
under the decisions in Florida East Coast Ry. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 167; Int. Com. Comm. v. Un. Pac. R. R.,
222 U. S. 541; Int. Com. Comm. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 227
U. S. 88, this court will determine whether the facts found
do, as a matter of law, support the order of the Commission.
The Government, on the other hand, contended that the
case should be disposed of in conformity with the principle
that an Appellate Court will not interfere with the decision
of a Chancellor, refusing to grant an interlocutory injunction, unless it clearly appears that there has been an
abuse of discretion. There can, of course, be no doubt that
such is the general rule. But where the order of the
Commission operates to reduce revenue it is manifest that'
the Chancellor's discretion should be influenced by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

fact that, though the application is for an interlocutory
injunction, the decision thereon may, in many respects,
be the equivalent of a final decree. On such a hearing
the court should, therefore, consider that fact with all
others, and grant the injunction, grant it on terms, or refuse it as the equity of the case may warrant.
It was no doubt because of the limited time in which
orders of the Commission would be operative and that
there might be cases in which irreparable injury would
result if an interlocutory injunction was not granted,
that Congress, by the Act of October 22, 1913 (38 Stat.
220) provided that "an appeal may be taken direct to
the Supreme Court of the United States from the order
granting or denying, after notice and hearing, an interlocutory injunction.

"

This clause and the rea-

sons above mentioned were evidently taken into consideration by the three judges who heard this case. For, in
passing upon the application, the court made a full statement of the facts, delivered a carefully prepared opinion
discussing the various contentions of the complainants
and then made a decision on the merits of the case as
submitted.
2. The facts involved have been so fully stated by the
Commission (28 I. C. C. 533) and by the court below
(216 Fed. Rep. 672) that it is unnecessary here to repeat
them. The Railroad Companies did not offer all of the
evidence which was considered by the Commission; and
on this appeal they do not include in the record all of the
hundreds of pages of testimony which had been submitted
to the Commission, but-conceding that the evidence was
conflicting and tended to support the findings of the Commission-they insist that the facts found 'were insufficient
in law to sustain the orders which were made. This most
commendable practice not only saved the expense of
printing many volumes of testimony, but saved the substantial points in the case from being submerged in a flood

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

11

Opinion of the Court.

of testimony-much of which was explanatory before the
Commission and most of which was wholly immaterial in
an Appellate Court which cannot reverse findings when
supported by substantial-though conflicting-evidence.
The practice is also in compliance with the spirit of the
new Equity Rules (75, 76, 77) which call for just such a
winnowing out of the useless; the presentation of only the
relevant parts of exhibits, documents, tables, and reports;
the elimination of all reduplications in written and oral
testimony and a condensation into narrative form of what
is material to the then issue before the court.
3. By virtue of this conformity to the rules, we are in a
position to consider the sharp-cut issue as to whether, as
matter of law, the Commission's findings of fact sustain
its order, and shall discuss first the rate on coal which,
being treated as typical, was principally argued by
counsel.
Where an existing freight rate is attacked, the burden is
on the complainant to establish that it is unreasonable in
fact. This is especially so where, as here, the rate has
been in force for a long period during which time the
traffic greatly increased in volume. In order to carry this
burden in the present case, the Traffic Bureau, while
alleging that the rate was unreasonable in itself and by
comparison with other like rates, does not seem to have
attempted to prove the cost, or value of the carrier's
service, but apparently relied largely on proof showing
that the Nashville rate was higher than that charged for
a similar haul to other points.
While some elements of value are fixed, the market price
of property and work is affected by so many and such
varying factors as to make it impossible to lay down a rule
by which to determine what any article or service is worth.
But one of the most common measures by which to value
the property or service of A is to compare it with the
amount charged for th'_
e thing by B, C and D. But

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this method, if made the sole basis for ascertaining values,
may often lead to improper results. For B, C and D may
.charge too much, or they may have been forced to charge
too little. The same is true of determining, by comparison,
the reasonableness of freight charges. Until some standard is adopted they may prove nothing-even where the
two hauls are over the same mileage. For the rate attacked may tend to show that the others are too lowwhile they in turn might be relied on to prove that the
first is too high. Both may be unreasonably high, -or too
low because compelled by conditions over which the carrier had no control. Water competition, rail competition,
and competition of markets, enter so largely into the establishment of rates that mere distance is not necessarily a
determining factor-indeed the statute itself recognizes
that there may be circumstances under which it is lawful
to charge less for a long haul than for a short haul over the
samq road. But while all this be true it is, nevertheless, a
fact that a comparison of rates between two points on the
same road, or with the charges on other roads, may furnish
evidence of probative value.
In the present case the Commission pointed out that
many facts had to be considered in applying the evidence
offered for the purpose of showing that the $1 rate to Nashville was high by comparison with the charge made .to
other points. It found that coal was shipped over the
Louisville & Nashville R. R. from Kentucky mines to
Nashville, Memphis and Louisville. It also found that
there was no substantial dissimilarity 'in the conditions at
those three points and instituted a special comparison between the rates to those three cities. The result may be
indicated by the following tabulation:
From MinesTo Nash., via L. & N., 109 in., $1 p. ton, or 9.2 mills p. m.
Memphis, " " " " 276 " 1.10
Louisville," " "'" 142 it .65

"

4.
4.5

"
"

"
"

"

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

13

Opinion of the Court.

The defendants insisted that its $1.10 rate to Memphis
did not furnish a fair criterion because it had been made
low and reduced in order to meet competition. The
commission, however, found that the river rate to Memphis
was $1.40 per ton so that the Appellant's "not unreasonable" (26 I. C. C. 402) rate of $1.10 was not compelled by
water competition. It further found that the rail competition at Memphis was not compelling, On,.these facts,
and after giving a history of the increase and decrease in
that rate (26 I. C. C. 402), the Commission seems to have,
treated the $1.10 rate, for 276 miles to Memphis, as in the
nature of a voluntary charge which would tend to indicate
that the $1 rate for 109 miles to Nashville was too high.
A similar view was taken of the situation at Louisville,
where water competition existed and where the 60-cent
rate from the mine to Louisville, 142 miles, was practically the same as that of the Illinois Central which
charged the same rate for a haul of 125 miles to Louisville.

Of. course, competition by rail as well as by water may
compel such a reduction in rates as. altogether to destroy
their value for purposes of comparison. But, as we understand, the Commission held that while there should be no
parity between these cities, the rate of .60 charged by the
Illinois Central for a haul of 125 miles to Louisville was,
in view of all the facts, some indication of what a road like
the. Louisville & Nashville should charge on a haul of 109
miles to Nashville.
Among many other details briefly discussed in the report, the Commission dealt with the question of the
earnings on the coal .business to Nashville. It found that
the Louisville & Nashville's coal cars had an average
capacity of 41 tons, so that on shipments from the
mines to Nashville there was a car revenue of $41, or
a per-car-mile earning of 37.78 cents. If the car was
returned empty, there would be a per-car-mile earning

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

of 18.87 cents. With this as a basis there was a comparison of the Nashville coal earnings with those on
all traffic over the other roads entering that city. It
showed:
cents
L. & N. $1 rate on coal to N'ville, per car-mile earnings 37.78
N., C. & St. L.,
"
"
"
"
24.64
Illinois Central
it
"
"
"
24.00
Average of all traffic, loaded and unloaded:
L. & N., per car-mile earnings ..................
N., C. & St. L.,
"
" ..........
Illinois Central
"
.
..................
Tennessee Central "
"
..................

cents
10.54
10.08
7.78
16.43

In addition to these comparisons of coal rates and average earnings on all traffic, loaded and empty, the Commission found that while the $1 rate to Nashville had been
in force many years, the carrying capacity of the cars
had increased from 16 to 41 tons and the tractive power
of engines from 660 to 1,165 tons. This practically
doubled the earning capacity of fully loaded trains; and
if, as argued, there has been a much larger increase in cost
of labor, material, taxes and operating expenses no proof
of that fact was made t5 the commission, for it found that
"there was little more than a suggestion in the record as
to the increased cost of labor and material and no attempt . . . to show operating cost." At the hearing
of the application for a Temporary Injunction an affidavit
was offered to show that the increase in cost of operation
had largely exceeded the increase in earning capacity.
But such evidence, important in itself and on the issue of
reasonableness, cannot be considered here for the reason
that it shifts the issue, for the case was submitted to the
District Court not to pass on the facts but on the theory

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

15

Opinion of the Court.

that though the conflicting evidence might sustain the
finding, the facts found did not as matter of law sustain
the order.
It further appeared in the Report and Finding of the
Commission that the Nashville BureauI had offered innumerable exhibits comparing on ton and car-mile bases
the Nashville rate with that to points in the southeast
and on the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers. Among these
were certain rates which the Commission had prescribed.
There was also a general comparison on the Nashville
rate with the charge for coal and other commodities to
Nashville and other destinations. This evidence showed
that "in all these instances the Nashville rate yields the
greatest earnings."
Giving the widest possible effect to the fact that mere
comparison between rates does not necessarily tend to
establish the reasonableness of either, it is still true that,
when one of many rates is found to be higher than all
others, there may arise a presumption that the single
rate is high. And when to that is added the fact that some
of the comparative and lower rates had been prescribed by
the Commission, there was at least a prima facie standard
1 " In support of these contentions complainants offered innumerable
exhibits comparing on ton, car, and train mile bases the Nashville rate
with the rates on coal obtaining north of the Ohio River; with rates
to St. Louis, East St. Louis, Louisville, Cincinnati, Memphis, and other
points on the Ohio and Mississippi rivers from mines in Kentucky,
Tennessee, and Virginia; with rates on coal prescribed by this Commission in a number of cases; with rates on coal to Chattanooga and
to certain destinations in the southeast; with rates on coal from other
mines to Nashville; with rates on other commodities to Nashville and
to other destinations; with the average per-ton and per-car-mile rate
received by defendants and other carriers on all traffic. In all of these
instances the Nashville rate yields the greatest earnings. In elaborate
detail defendants sought to analyze and rebut these comparisons in an
endeavor to show that none was of any value in determining the reasonableness of the rate in issue."

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

which, after allowing for dissimilarity in conditions,
might be used along with all the other evidence in order
to test the reasonableness of the Nashville rate. No one
of those facts was conclusive, for the character of the
country through which the two roads had been built
might differ. One might run through a level, thickly
populated territory,--the other might have steep grades,
long tunnels and a roadway expensive to maintain. The
capital invested, the' traffic hauled, the cost of operation
and the earnings might differ, but nevertheless what was
shown to'be a reasonable rate on one, might, after allowing for the dissimilarity in conditions, earnings and cost,
be a factor in determining the reasonableness of the rate
on the other. The report in this case shows that the ratemaking body had before it much and varied evidence of
this characte. After considering it as a whole, the Commission found that the $1-rate on coal shipped from the
Kentucky mines to Nashville was unreasonable. In
the light of these findings we cannot say that the facts
set out in the Report, do not support the order. And
since there is no contention, at this time, that the reduced rate is confiscatory, we can but repeat what was
said in Int. Com. Comm. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 227
U. S. 88:
"The pleadings charged that the new rates were unjust
in themselves and by comparison with others. This was
denied by the carrier. The Commission considered evidence and made findings relating to rates which the carrier
insists had been compelled by competition, and were not a
proper standard by which to measure those here involved.
The value of such evidence necessarily varies according
to the circ mstances, but the weight to be given it is
peculiarly for the body experienced in such matters and
familiar with the complexities, intricacies and history
of rate-making in each section of the country."
5. In its complaint before the Commission the Traffic

LOUIS.& NASH. R. R. v. UNITED, STATES.
238 U. S.

17

Opinion of the Court.

Bureau also attacked the practice of the Appellants by
which, under filed tariffs, each made a charge of $3 per
car for switching non-competitive business between industries within the terminal limits and in conjunction
with the Tennessee Central.
The Bureau insisted that this practice was discriminatory and designed to prevent the switching of coal between
the Tennessee Central and private industries, located on
sidings and reached through' the Terminals. The defendants admitted the practice and the intention, but insisted
that the Yards had never been thrown open to such business. They clAimed that they had the right to the exclusive use of their own terminals and could not be required to
switch cars loaded with "coal or competitive freight" to
and from the Tennessee Central.
. In consideringthis branch of the case the Commission
found that the Louisville & Nashville and the Nashville,
Chattanooga & St. Louis, by reason of endorsements on
bonds, and by an agreement to pay 4 per cent. on the
capital stock of the Nashville Terminal Company, had
leased the Yards for 999 years,-the rental being paid
by the two lessees in proportion to the business done by
each; That while the Louisville & Nashville owned 70 per
cent..of the stock of the Nashville, Chattanooga & St.
Louis. the two roads were not only separate corporate
entities but were competitors at Nashville-particularly
in the transportation of coal. It found that each switched
for the other and bothswitched for the Tennessee Central,
except as to "coal and competitive business." It found
that such a switching practice was unreasonable'and unjustly discriminatory, and that a 'reasonable practice
would permit the switching of coal from the interchange
of each carrier to industries on the rails of each other.'
It thereupon issued an order requiring Appellants to cease
the discrimination found to exist and to maintain "a
practice which will permit the interswitching of such
VOL. ccxxxviii-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

shipments from and to the lines of each and every defendant" [including Tennessee Central].
The Appellants attack this order as being void because
(1) it compels them to admit the Tennessee Central into
an arrangement. for operating joint terminals at Nashville under a contract guaranteeing interest on bonds and
pro-rating operating expenses; (2) takes their property in
the Yards without due process of law; (3) violates § 15
of the Commerce Act (34 Stat. 589) in compelling them,
in effect, to make through routes and joint rates with
the Tennessee Central when the appellants themselves
have already established "a reasonable and satisfactory
through route;" and (4) violates § 3 of the same Act which,
after requiring carriers to afford equal facilities for the
interchange of traffic, declares that the section "shall
not be construed as requiring any such carrier to give the
use of its tracks or terminal facilities to another carrier
engaged in like business."
These objections treat the order as being broader than
its terms. The Commission did not, as in Waverly Oil
Works Co.v. Penna. R. R., 28 I. C. C. 626, 627, pass upon
the question as to what was a proper switching charge
as affected by the rental of the yard and the cost of operation. Neither did it direct the Appellants to establish
a joint rate and a through route with the Tennessee
Central. Neither did it order the Appellants to give the
use of their terminals to the Tennessee Central, but only
required them to render to the latter the same service
that each of the Appellants furnishes the other in
switching cars to industries located in and neax the
Yard.
Disregarding the complication arising out of joint
ownership and the fact that each of the Appellants
switches for the other, it will be seen that the Commission
is not dealing with an original proposition, but with a
condition brought about by the Appellants themselves.

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

19

'Opinion of the Court.

Under the provisions of the Commerce Act (24 Stat. 380)
the reciprocal arrangement between the two Appellants
would not give them a right to discriminate against any
person or "particular description of traffic." For, § 3
requires Railroad Companies to furnish equal facilities
for the interchange of traffic between their respective
lines . . . "provided that this should not be construed as requiring any such common carrier to give the
use of its tracks or terminal facilities to another carrier
engaged in like business." If the carrier, however, does
not rest behind that statutory shield but chooses voluntarily to throw the Terminals open to many branches of
traffic, it to that extent makes the Yard public. Having
made the Yard a facility for many purposes and to many
patrons, such railroad facility is within the provisions of
§ 3 of the statute which prohibits the facility from being
used in such manner as to discriminate against patrons
and commodities. The carriers cannot say that the Yard
is a facility open for the switching of cotton and wheat and
lumber but cannot be used as a facility for the switching
of coal. Whatever -may, have been the rights of the carriers in the first instance; whatever may be the case if the
Yard was put back under the protection of the proviso to
§ 3, the Appellants cannot open the Yard for most switching purposes and then debar a particular shipper from a
privilege granted the great mass of the public. In substance that would be to discriminate not only against the
tendering railroad, but also against the commodity which
is excluded from a service performed for others. This
feature of the case was thus dealt with by the District
Court:
"We think it clear that this order does not require the
petitioners to give the use of their tracks and terminal
facilities to the Tennessee Central Railroad, within the
meaning of tho proviso contained in Section 3 of the Act
to Regulate Commerce, or constitute an appropriation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

such tracks and terminals for the use of the Tennessee
Central Railroad.
"There is furthermore no evidence that the switching
practices prescribed will violate the constitutional provision against taking property without due process of law.
See Grand Trunk Ry. v. Michigan Commission, 231 U. S.
468. And it may well be assumed that the petitioners
will not themselves establish a switching charge so low as
to be confiscatory."
The question, as to power of the Commission to make
this part of the order, is settled by the decision in Pennsylvania Company v. United States, 236 U. S. 318, recently
decided. The appellants, however, insist that that case
did not involve switching but transportation;and further
they claim that the Pennsylvania road was there ordered
to discontinue discrimination-while here the appellants
are required by an affirmative order to devote their property to the use of a parallel and competing carrier. But
the alleged differences do not serve to take the present
case out of the principle announced in that just cited. For
in this order the prohibition against the existing practice
and the requirement to furnish equal facilities come to the
same thing.
In this case the controlling feature of the Commission's
order is the prohibition against discrimination. It was
based upon the fact that the appellants were at the present
time furnishing switching service to each other on all
business, and to the Tennessee Central on all except coal
and competitive business. As long as the Yard remained
open and was used as a facility for switching purposes the
Commission had the power to pass an order-not only
prohibiting discrimination-but requiring the appellants
to furn 'sh equal facilities "to all persons and corporations
without undue preference to any particular class of persons." The question as to what is a proper practice, the

KREITLEIN v. FERGER.
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

amount of charge therefor and the length of time such
switching ervice is to continue are matters not presented
for decision on this record. The judgment of the District

Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

KREITLEIN v. FERGER.
ERROR TO THE APPELLATE COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 157.

Submitted January 22, 1915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

Under § 21 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, a certified copy of the order
of discharge is evidence of the jurisdiction of the court making it, the
regularity of the proceedings and of the fact that the order was made.
While the introduction of the order in discharge may make out a prima
facie defense that case may be disproved by introduction by the
defendant of the bankruptcy record, if the latter shows that the debt
scheduled was not the same as the one sued on, was not a provable
debt, was not properly scheduled, or that notice was not properly
given to the creditor.
A judgment may be a provable debt even if rendered in a suit where
the creditor elected to bring an action in trover as for a fraudulent
conversion instead of assumpsit for a balance due on open account.
It is not a fatal defect because the schedule shows the debt a a balance
on open account for merchandise instead of a judgment into which
the liability for the merchandise had been merged, or because there
may have been a difference between the amount of the original debt
as scheduled and the amount of the judgment. In such a case the
burden is on the creditor to show that the judgment was not the
identical claim scheduled.
The Bankruptcy Act failing to prescribe the form of designation to be

