OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

engaged in interstate business, or in an act which is so
directly and immediately connected with such business
as substantially to form a part or a necessary incident
thereof. Under these principles the plaintiff is to be
treated as having been employed in interstate commerce
at the time of his injury and the judgment in his favor
must be
Affifmed.

McDONALD AND UNITED STATES FIDELITY
AND GUARANTY COMPANY v. PLESS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 283. Argued May 13, 1915.-Decided June 14, 1915.
The Conformity Act-Rev. Stat., §914-does not apply to the
power of the court to inquire into the conduct of jurors. The courts
of each jurisdiction, state and Federal, must be in a position to adopt
and enforce their own self-preserving rules.
While Rev. Stat., § 914, does not apply in this case, this court recognizes the same policy that has been declared by that court and by
the courts in England and in most of the States of the Union, that
the testimony of a juror may not be received to prove the misconduct
of himself or his colleagues in reaching a verdict.
The rule, endorsed by this court in this case, that a'juror may not impeach his own verdict is based upon controlling considerations of
public policy which in such cases chooses the lesser of two evils.
While jurors should not reach a verdict by lot, or, as in this case, by
averaging the amounts suggested by each, the verdict may not be
set aside on the testimony of a juror as to his'misconduct or that of
his colleagues.
206 Fed. Rep. 263, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States in an
action for services, are stated in the opinion.

McDONALD v. PLESS.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Julius C. Martin, with whom Mr. Thos. S. Rollins
and Mr. Geo. H. Wright were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Joseph W. Bailey for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.

Pless & Winbourne, Attorneys at Law, brought suit in
the Superior Court of McDowell County, North Carolina,
against McDonald to recover $4,000 alleged to be due
them for legal services. The case was removed to the
then Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District of North Carolina. There was a trial in which
the jury returned a verdict for $2,916 in favor of Pless &
Winbourne. The defendant McDonald moved to set
aside the verdict on the ground that when the jury retired
the Foreman suggested that each juror should write down
what he thought the plaintiffs were entitled to recover,
that the aggregate of these amounts should be divided by
12 and that the quotient should be the verdict to be returned to the court. To this suggestion all assented.
The motion further averred that when the figures were
read out it was found that one juror was in favor of giving
plaintiffs nothing, eight named sums ranging from $500
to $4,000 and three put down $5,000. A part of the jury
objected to using $5,000 as one of the factors inasmuch
as the plaintiffs were only suing for $4,000. But the three
insisted that they had as much right to name a sum above
$4,000 as the others had to vote for an amount less than
that set out in the declaration. The various amounts were
then added up and divided by 12. But by reason of including the three items of $5,000 the quotient was so
much larger than had been expected that much dissatisfaction with the result was expressed by some of the jury.
Others however insisted on standing by the bargain and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

the protesting jurors finally yielded to the argument that
they were bound by the previous agreement, and the
quotient verdict was rendered accordingly.
The defendant further alleged in his motion that the
jurors refused to file an affidavit but stated that they were
willing to testify to the facts alleged, provided the court
thought it proper that they should do so. At the hearing
of the motion one of the jurors was sworn as a witness,
but the court refused to allow him to testify on the ground
that a juror was incompetent to impeach his own verdict.
That ruling was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. (206
Fed. Rep. 263.) The case was then brought here by writ
of error.
On the argument here it was suggested that it was not
necessary to consider the question involved as an original
proposition, since the decision of the Federal court was
in accordance with the rule in North Carolina (Purcell v.
RailroadCo., 119 N. Car. 739) and therefore binding under
Rev. Stat., § 914, which requires that 'the practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of procedure in the Federal
courts shall conform as near as may be to those existing
in the State within which such Federal courts are held.'
But neither in letter nor in spirit does the Conformity Act
apply to the power of the court to inquire into the conduct
of jurors who had been summoned to perform a duty in
the administration of justice and who, for the time being,
were officers of the court. The conduct of parties, witnesses and counsel in a case, as well as the conduct of the
jurors and officers of the court may be of such a character
as not only to defeat the rights of litigants but it may directly affect the administration of public justice. In the
very nature of things the courts of each jurisdiction must
each be in a position to adopt and enforce their own selfpreserving rules. Nudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 427 (4), 441;
Railroad Co' v. Horst, 93 U. S. 291, 300; Grimes Co. v.
Malcom, 164 U. S. 483, 490; Lincoln v. Power, 151 U. S.

McDONALD v. PLESS.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

436, 442; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 33; Liverpool
&c. Co. v. Friedman, 133 Fed. Rep. 716.
But though Rev. Stat., § 914, does not make the North
Carolina decisions controlling in the Federal court held
in that State, we recognize the same public policy which
has been declared by that court by those in England and
most of the American States. For while by statute in a
few jurisdictions, and by decisions in others, the affidavit
of a juror may be received to prove the misconduct of
himself and his fellows, the weight of authority is that
a juror cannot impeach his own verdict. The rule is based
upon controlling considerations of a public policy which
in these cases chooses the lesser of two evils. When the
affidavit of a juror, as to the misconduct of himself or the
other members of the jury, is made the basis of a motion
for a new trial the court must choose between redressing
the injury of the private litigant and inflicting the public
injury which would result if jurors were permitted to
testify as to what had happened in the jury room.
These two conflicting considerations are illustrated in
the present case. If the facts were as stated'in the affidavit, the jury adopted an arbitrary and unjust method
in arriving at their verdict, and the defendant ought to
have had relief, if the facts could have been proved by
witnesses who were competent to testify in a proceeding
to set aside the verdict. But let it once be established
that verdicts solemnly made and publicly returned into
court can be attacked and set aside on the testimony of
those who took part in their publication and all verdicts
could be, and- many would be, followed by an inquiry in
the hope of discovering something which might invalidate
the finding. Jurors would be harassed and beset by the
defeated party in an effort to secure from them evidence
of facts which might establish misconduct sufficient to
set aside a verdict. If evidence thus secured could be
thus used, the result would be to make what was intended

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

to be a private deliberation, the constant subject of public
investigation-to the destruction of all frankness and freedom of discussion and conference.
The rule on the subject has varied. Prior to 1785 a
juror's testimony in such cases wa3 sometimes received
though always with great caution. In that year Lord
Mansfield, in Vaise v. Delaval, 1 T. R. 11 refused to receive the affidavit of jurors to pro'°.e that their verdict
had been made by lot. That ruling soon came to be almost universally followed in England and in this country.
Subsequently, by statute in some States, and by decisions
in a few others, the juror's affidavit as to an overt act of
misconduct, which was capable of being controverted by
other jurors, was made admissible. And, of course, the
argument in favor of receiving such evidence is not only
very strong but unanswerable-when looked at solely from
the standpoint of the private party who has been wronged
by such misconduct. The argument, however, has not
been sufficiently convincing to induce legislatures generally
to repeal or to modify the rule. For, while it may often
exclude the only possible evidence of misconduct, a change
in the rule "would open the door to the most pernicious
arts and tampering with jurors." "The practice would
be replete with dangerous consequences." "It would lead
to the grossest fraud and abuse" and "no verdict would
be safe." Cluggage v. Swan, 4 Binn. 155; Straker v.
Graham, 4 M. & W. 721.
There are only three instances in which the subject
has been before this court. In United States v. Reid, 12
How. 361, 366, the question, though raised, was not decided because not necessary for the determination of the
case. In Clyde Mattox v. United States, 146 U. S. 140,
148, such evidence was received to show that newspaper
comments on a pending capital case had been read by the
jurors. Both of those decisions recognize that it would
not be safe to lay down any inflexible rule because there

NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. R. v. FEREBEE.
238 U. S.

269

Syllabus.

might be instances in which such testimony of the juror
could not be excluded without "violating the plainest
principles of justice." This might occur in the gravest
and most important cases; and without attempting to define the exceptions, or to determine how far such evidence
might be received by the judge on his own motion, it is
safe to say that there is nothing in the nature of the present case warranting a departure from what is unquestionably the general rule, that the losing party cannot, in
order to secure a new trial, use the testimony of jurors to
impeach their verdict. The principle was recognized and
applied in Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S. 347, which,
notwithstanding an alleged difference in the facts, is applicable here.
The suggestion that, if this be the true rule, then jurors
could not be witnesses in criminal cases, or in contempt
proceedings brought to punish the wrongdoers is without
foundation. For the principle is limited to those instances
in which a private party seeks to use a juror as a witness
to impeach the verdict.
Judgment affirmed.

NORFOLK SOUTHERN RAILROAD COMPANY v.
FEREBEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 779. Argued April 23, 1915. Decided June 14, 1915.
In the courts of North Carolina in an action under the Employers'
Liability Act, there was a trial in which under the state practice the
jury returned a special verdict finding that the Railroad Company
was negligent and that plaintiff was not guilty of contributory negligence. The appellate court on account of errors in the charge re-

