OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

Commission effect as prima facie evidence, we think that
the trial court did not err in its ruling. The statutory

provision merely established a rule of evidence. It leaves
every opportunity to the defendant to contest the claim.
But when the Commission has found that there was
damage to a specified extent, prima facie the damage is
shown; and, according to the fair import 'of its decision,
the Commission did find the amount of damage in this
case.

There was error, however, in the allowance of the fee for
services before the Commission. 236 U. S. 432, 433.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and that of the District Court is modified by striking out
the allowance of $1,000 as attorney's fee for services before
the Commission, and is affirmed as so modified.
It is so ordered.

THE SOUTHWESTERN

TELEGRAPH & TELE-

PHONE COMPANY v. DANAHER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 43.

Submitted March 17, 1914. Restored to docket April 6, 1914.
Reargued April 22, 1914.-Decided June 21, 1915.

While it is not open in this court to revise the construction placed on a
state statute by the state court, it is open to determine whether the
application of the statute as so construed is so arbitrary as to so
contravene the fundamental principles of justice as to amount to
deprivation of property without due process of law.
The rates of public service corporations, such as telephone companies,
are fixed in expectation that they will be paid, and reasonable regulations tending towards prompt payment are necessary as the ability
of such corporation to serve the public depends upon the prompt
collection of their rates.
Collection of such rates by legal process being practically, prohibitive,

SOUTHWESTERN TEL. CO. v. DANAHER.
238 U. S.

483

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

regulations requiring payment in advance are not unreasonable, and
a telephone company is not subject to penalties for refusing to render
service to a subscriber who is delinquent on past rates and refuses
to pay in advance in accordance with an established rule uniformly
enforced, or because it charges the full price to a subscriber who does
not pay in advance while allowing a stated discount to those who do
pay in advance.
To enforce against a telephone company a penalty for refusing to
furnish service under such conditions amounts to depriving it of
its property without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
102 Arkansas, 547, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
Fourteenth Amendment of a statute of Arkansas relating
to telephone companies, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. David A. Frank, with whom Mr. Charles T. Coleman
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
As to the construction of the Act of March 31, 1885, see
Cumberland Telephone Co. v. Kelly, 160 Fed. Rep. 316;
Pacific Telephone Co. v. Railway, 66 Maryland, 399;
Plummer v. Hattelstead, 117 N. W. Rep. 680; Smith v.
Telephone Co., 158 S. W. Rep. 980; Hockett v. State, 105
Indiana, 250; Cent. Union Tel. Co. v. State, 106 Indiana, 1;
State v. Citizens Tel. Co., 61 S. Car. 83; Cumberlan'd Tel.
Co. v. Hendon, 71 S. W. Rep. 435; State v. Nebraska Tel.
Co., 17 Nebraska, 126; People v. Gas Co., 45 Barb. 146;
Postal Tel. Co. v. Cumb.'rland Tel. Co., 177 Fed. Rep. 726;
Jones on Telephones, §§ 495, 496.
The Act of March 31, 1885, as construed by the Supreme
Court of Arkansas, is in conflict with the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. Mo. Pac.Ry. v. Nebraska,
217 U. S. 196; Mo. Pac. Ry. v. Tucker, 230 U. S.340.
As to the right to make regulations see Cumberland Tel.
Co. v. Kelly, 160 Fed. Rep. 316; Stamey v. West. Un. Tel.
Co., 18 S. E. Rep. 1008; McDaniel v. Faubush Tel. Co., 106
S. W. Rep. 825; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Neil, 25 S.W. Rep.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

238 U. S.

15; Davis v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 32 S. E. Rep. 1026; 3
Thompson on Corporations (2 ed.), 2110; 37 Cyc. 1619.
As to the duty to make regulations and the reasonableness of the regulations in this case, see Rushville Tel. Co. v.
Irvin, 27 Ind. App. 62; Tacoma Hotel Co. v. Land Co.,
3 Washington, 316; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. McGuire, 104
Indiana, 130; Vanderberg v. Gas Co., 126 Mo. App. 600;
Jones v. Nashville, 72 S. W. Rep. 985; Watauga Water Co.
v. Wolfe, 41 S. W. Rep. 1060; Shiras v. Ewing, 26 Pac.
Rep. 320; Buffalo Tel. Co. v. Turner, 118 N. W. Rep. 1064;
Brass v. Rathbone, 47 N. E. Rep. 905; Hewlett v. West. Un.
Tel. Co., 28 Fed. Rep. 181; Yancey v. Batesville Tel. Co.,
81 Arkansas, 586; Southwestern Tel. Co. v. Murphy, 100
Arkansas, 546; Phillips v. Southwestern Tel. Co., 72
Arkansas, 478; Cumberland Tel. Co. v. Kelly, 160 Fed. Rep.
316.
The act of March 31, 1885, as construed by the Supreme
Court of Arkansas, is in conflict with the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Cotting v. Kansas
City Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 79; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.
123.
Mrs. Adelia P. Danaher,with whom Mr. Mike Danaher
was on the brief, pro se:
Defendants in error cited in support of the contentions
on. her behalf, American Waterworks Co. v. Walker, 64
N. W. Rep. 711; Brass v. Rathbone, 47 N. E. Rep. 905;
Buffalo Tel. Co. v. Turner, 118 N. W. Rep. 1064; Budd v.
New York, 143 U. S. 517; Chicago &c. R. R. v. Jones,
149 Illinois, 361; C., B. & Q. Ry. v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155;
Crumley v. Watauga Water Co., 41 S. W. Rep. 1058; Dow
v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680; Hewlett v. West. Un. Tel. Co.,
28 Fed. Rep. 181; Jones v. Nashville, 72 S. W. Rep. 985;
Merrimack Say. Bank v. Lowell, 29 N. E. Rep. 97; Mo.
Pac. Ry. v. Tucker, 230 U. S. 340; Munn v. Illinois, 94
U. S. 113; Rushville Telephone Co. v. Irwin, 27 Ind. App.

SOUTHWESTERN TEL. CO. v. DANAHER.
238 U. S.

485

Opinion of the Court.

62; Seaboard Air Line v. Seegars, 207 U. S. 73; Shiras v.
Ewing, 29 Pac. Rep. 320; State v. Nebraska Tel. Co., 17
Nebraska, 126; Stone v. Trust Co., 116 U. S. 307; Tacoma
Hotel Co. v. Land Co., 3 Washington, 316; Vanderberg v.
Gas Co., 126 Mo. App. 600; Watauga Water Co. v. Wolfe,
41 S. W. Rep. 1060; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. McGuire, 104
Indiana, 130; Wood v. City, 20 L. R. A. 376; Yazoo &
Miss. Valley R. R. v. Vinegar Co., 226 U. S. 217.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTR delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was an action against a telephone company by one
of its patrons to recover penalties at the rate of $100 per
day for 63 days for alleged discrimination against the
plaintiff, the right of recovery being grounded upon a
statute of Arkansas, Kirby's Digest, § 7948, reading as
follows:
"Every telephone company doing business in this State
and engaged in a general telephone business shall supply
all applicants for telephone connection and facilities without discrimination or partiality; provided, such applicants
comply or offer to comply with the reasonable regulations
of the company, and no such company shall impose any
condition or restriction upon any such applicant that are
not imposed impartially upon all persons or companies
in like situations; nor shall such company discriminate
against any individual or company engaged in lawful
business, by -requiring as condition for furnishing such
facilities that they shall not be used in the business of the
applicant, or otherwise, under penalty of one hundred
dollars for each day such company continues such discrimination, and refuses such facilities after compliance or
offer to comply with the reasonable regulations and time
to furnish the same has elapsed, to be recovered by the
applicant whose application is so neglected or refused."

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

For several years the company had been conducting a
general telephone exchange at Little Rock, Arkansas, with
over 5,000 patrons, among them being the plaintiff. One
of its established regulations was to the effect that it would
not furnish telephone service to any patron in arrears for
past service and would not accord to a patron so in arrears
the discount usually allowed for paying in advance of a
designated time. The customary monthly rate was $2
during the first part of the period in question and thereafter $2.75 with a deduction of 50 cents if payment was
made before the fifteenth of the month.
The discrimination charged by the plaintiff consisted
(a) in arbitrarily refusing for forty days to permit her to
use the telephone in her residence when she had made
prompt payment therefor at the customary monthly rate
and had fully complied with all existing rules, notwithstanding other patrons similarly situated were permitted
to use the telephones in their residences during that
period; and (b) in requiring her to pay at the rate of $2.75
per month for the period covering the next 23 days when
other patrons similarly situated were required to pay only
$2.25 per month' for the same period. In its answer the.
company denied the plaintiff's allegations of payment and
discrimination, as also her compliance with existing rules,
and relied upon the regulation before mentioned as justifying the company's action in denying her the use of the
telephone during the forty days and in requiring her to
pay the full rate of $2.75 for the month covering the next
23 days. In that connection it was alleged in the answer
that the regulation was adopted in good faith several
years before and had been uniformly and impartially enforced; that at the times when the plaintiff's telephone was
disconnected, and when she was refused the discount of
50 cents, she was indebted to the company in the sum of
$4 for the service for two months preceding; that the
company's acts were in entire accord with the regulation

SOUTHWESTERN TEL. CO. v. DANAHER.
238 U. S.

487

Opinion of the Court.

and with timely notices theretofore given to the plaintiff,
and that the statute, if held to authorize or require the
infliction of the designated penalties by reason of what
was done in impartially enforcing the regulation, would be
purely arbitrary and would result in depriving the company of its property without due process of law contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
At the trial the plaintiff produced evidence tending to
establish the charges in her complaint, and when the
company was introducing its evidence it offered to prove
that when the plaintiff's telephone was disconnected and
when she was refused the discount of 50 cents she had
failed and refused to pay her telephone rental for two
months preceding, although she frequently had been requested to pay it and knew the telephone would be disconnected if payitent was not made; that the regulation
before named had been in force for several years and had
been applied universally against all delinquent patrons
without partiality or discrimination, and that the plaintiff
was denied the use of the telephone and refused the discount only because she was delinquent at the time. This
evidence was rejected, and in its charge to the jury the
court, at the plaintiff's request, said: "Under the law, the
defendant should not refuse to serve the plaintiff because
she had not paid a debt contracted for services rendered
in the past, and if you find that the defendant did refuse
to render her services for that reason, your verdict should
be for the plaintiff." The defendant asked the court to
say to the jury: "If you find from the evidence that the
defendant enforced against plaintiff the same rule or regulation that it enforced: against all others in like situation
with the plaintiff, your verdict will be for the defendant,"
and this request was refused. The trial resulted in a
verdict and judgment for the plaintiff for the penalties
claimed, amounting to $6;300, and the. judgment was af-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

firmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 102 Arkansas,
547. At a former trial the defendant had prevailed, but
that judgment was reversed and a new trial directed, the
Supreme Court saying on that occasion, 94 Arkansas, 533,
537: "A telephone company, being a public servant, cannot refuse to serve.any one of the public in that capacity
in which it has undertaken to serve the public when such
one offers to pay its rates and comply with its reasonable
rules and regulations. It cannot refuse to serve him until
he pays a debt contracted for services rendered in the
past. For the present services it has a right to demand no
more than the rate of charge fixed for such services. It
transcended its duty to the public when it demanded
more." Of course what was then said led to the rulings
just stated upon the second trial. In affirming the second
judgment the Supreme Court adhered to its prior decision,
pronounced the regulation unreasonable and held that its
enforcement against the plaintiff was a discrimination
against her within the meaning of the statute and subjected the company to the penalties therein prescribed.
It was not doubted by the state court, but on the contrary was fully recognized, that the telephone company
was entitled to adopt reasonable regulations respecting
the conduct of its business and the terms upon which it
would serve its patrons, and could enforce such regulations against any patron refusing or failing to comply
therewith by suspending or discontinuing the service to
him during the continuance of his refusal or failure without being chargeable with discrimination or incurring any
liability under the statute. Thus the questions for decision arising out of the rulings at the trial were whether the
regulation dealing with patrons in arrear with their rental
was reasonable, and whether its impartial enforcement in
the circumstances of this case could be made the occasion,
consistently with the due process of law clause in the Fourteenth Amendment, for inflicting upon the company pen-

SOUTHWESTERN TEL. CO. v. DANAHER.
238 U. S.

489

Opinion of the Court.

alties aggregating $6,300. As before indicated, the first
question was answered in the negative and the second
in the affirmative.
Of course, it is not open to us to revise the construction
placed upon the statute by the state court, but it is open
to us to determine whether the application made of the
statute in this instance was so arbitrary as to contravene
the fundamental principles of justice which the constitutional guaranty of due process of law is intended to preserve. What then are the circumstances in the light of
which this question must be determined?
Regulations like that which the telephone company
applied to the plaintiff were not declared unreasonable
by the statute. It left that matter entirely open and to
be determined according to general principles of law. The
state court did not hold otherwise. The regulation, according to the rejected proof, was adopted in good faith,
had been uniformly and impartially enforced for many
years and was impartially applied in this instance. There
had been no decision in the State holding or indicating
that it was unreasonable. Like regulations often had been
pronounced reasonable and valid in other jurisdictions 1
and while some differences of opinion upon the subject
were disclosed in reported decisions the weight of authority was on that side. It also was strongly supported
in reason, for not only are telephone rates fixed and regulated in the expectation that they will be paid, but the
See People v. ManhattanGas Co., 45 Barb. 136; Tacoma Hotel Co. v.
Tacoma Light & Water Co., 3 Washington, 316; Wood v. Auburn, 87
Maine, 287; Rushville Telephone Co. v. Irvin, 27 Ind. App. 62; Irvin v.
Rushville Tel. Co., 161 Indiana, 524; Jones v. Nashville, 109 Tennessee,
550; Cox v. Cynthiana, 123 Kentucky, 363; Mansfield v. Humphreys
Mfg. Co., 82 Oh. St. 216; Woodley v. Carolina Telephone Co., 163 N.
Car. 284; Vanderberg v. Kansas City Gas Co., 126 Mo. App. 600, 608;
Shiras v. Ewing, 48 Kansas, 170; Vaught v. East Tennessee Telephone
Co., 123 Tennessee, 318.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

company's ability properly to serve the public largely
depends upon their prompt payment. They usually are
only a few dollars per month and the expense incident to
collecting them by legal process would be almost prohibitive. It uniformly is held that a regulation requiring
payment in advance or a fair deposit to secure payment
is reasonable, and this is recognized in the brief for the
plaintiff where it is said that to protect themselves against
loss telephone companies "can demand payment in advance." If they may do this, it is difficult to perceive
why the more lenient regulation in question was not reasonable.
If it be assumed that the state legislature could have
declared such a regulation unreasonable, the fact remains
that it did not do so, but left the matter where the company was well justified in regarding the regulation as
reasonable and in acting on that belief. And if it be assumed that the company should have known that the
Supreme Court of the State in the exercise of its judicial
power might hold the regulation unreasonable, even
though the prevailing view elsewhere was otherwise, the
question remains whether, in the circumstances, penalties
aggregating $6,300 could be imposed without departing
from the fundamental principles of justice embraced in
the recognized conception of due process of law. In our
opinion the question must be answered in the negative.
There was no intentional wrongdoing; no departure from
any prescribed or known standard of action, and no reckless conduct. Some regulation establishing a mode of
inducing prompt payment of the monthly rentals was
necessary. It is not as if the company had been free to
act or not as it chose. It was engaged in a public service
which could not .be neglected. The protection of its own
revenues and justice to its paying patrons required that
something be done. It acted by adopting the regulation
and then impartially enforcing it. There was no mode of

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. R. R. v. WISCONSIN.
238 U. S.

491

Syllabus.

judicially testing the regulation's reasonableness in advance of acting under it, and, as we have seen, it had the
support of repeated adjudications in other jurisdictions.
In these circumstances to inflict upon the company penalties aggregating $6,300 was so plainly arbitrary and
oppressive as to be nothing short of a taking of its property without due process of law. Missouri Pacific Ry.
v. Tucker, 230 U." S. 340, 351, and cases cited; Wadley
Southern Ry. Co. v. Georgia, 235 U. S. 651, 661-666;
Vaught v. East Tennessee Telephone Co., 123 Tennessee,
318, 328.
It follows that the rulings of the trial court as sustained
by the Supreme Court of the State tended to deprive the
defendant of a right secured and protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment reversed.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILROAD COMPANY v. STATE OFWISCONSIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.
No. 177.

Argued March 8, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

A State cannot authorize an individual to take salable property from
another without pay-it amounts to deprivation of property without
due process of law.
An owner's right to his property is protected even though he may not
be actually using it, and the State cannot, under the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, compel an owner of property
to allow a third party to have free use thereof until such time as a
buyer appears.
A state statute that doe not purport to be a health measure cannot
be sustained as such.
A state statute which is not a reasoftbe exercise of the police power

