OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

UNITED

238 U. S.

SURETY COMPANY v. AMERICAN
FRUIT PRODUCT COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 203.

Submitted May 12, 1915.-Decided June 14, 1915.

The right given to this court by the sixth clause of § 250, Judicial Code,
to reexamine the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia in cases in which the construction of any law of the United

States is drawn in question by the defendant, is confined to the construction of laws of general application throughout the United States,
and does not include laws local in their application to the District of
Columbia. American Security & Trust Co. v. District of Columbia,
224 U. S. 491.
Quwre, whether under the third clause of § 250, Judicial Code, this
court may not examine the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia where the constitutionality of a statute of the
United States, whether general or local to the District, is involved.
Sections 454 and 455 of the District Code are not unconstitutional
because they provide that a surety, by executing the undertaking to
release property attached, is bound by the judgment against the
principal, although it has no right to be heard, whether the value of
the property released be fixed by appraisal or by the court. BeaU v.
New Mexico, 16 Wall. 535.
A constitutional question that has no real foundation cannot be put
forward as a mere pretext to open other questions that otherwise
could not come before this court. Goodrich v. Ferris,214 U. S. 71.
Writ of error to review 40 App. D. C. 239, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia under § 250, Judicial Code, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Wade H.

Ellis, Mr. R.

Golden Donaldson. Mr.

Charles Cowles Tucker and Mr. Abner H. Ferguson for
plaintiff in error.

UNITED SURETY CO. v. AMERICAN FRUIT CO. 141
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George E. Hamilton, Mr. John W. Yerke8 and Mr.
John J. Hamilton for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLmES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit originally brought by the defendant in error
against the Semmes-Kelly Company in the Supreme Court
of the District to recover $10,596.45 for goods sold. There
was an attachment of a stock of goods that were worth
much more than the judgment finally recovered, but never
were formally appraised, and the next day the plaintiff in
error as surety to the Semmes-Kelly Company signed an
undertaking to release the property attached, in the form
provided in the District Code, § 454. By that instrument
it in terms submitted to the jurisdiction of the court and
undertook 'to abide by and perform the judgment of the
court in the premises in relation to said property, which
judgment may be rendered against all the parties whose
names are hereto subscribed.' By § 455 if the judgment
goes for the plaintiff 'it shall be a joint judgment against
both the defendant and his surety or sureties in said undertaking for the appraised value of the property.' After a
second trial, judgment was entered against the SemmesKelly Company and the plaintiff in error for $9,937.90,
that sum being found to be far less than the value of the
property, as we have said. 40 App. D. C. 239.
The jurisdiction of this court is invoked upon a contention that the above §§ 454 and 455 as applied deprive
the plaintiff of its property without due process of law.
In American Security & Trust Co. v. District of Columbia,
224 U. S. 491, it was held that the right to reexamine a
judgment of the Court of Appeals given by the Judicial
Code, § 250, 'Sixth. In cases in which the construction
of any law of the United States is drawn in question by the
defendant,' was confined to the construction of laws having general application throughout the United States. But

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

in the same case it was left open whether the third clause,
'Cases involving

.

.

.

the constitutionality of any

law of the United States,' did not have a wider meaning,
and that suggestion is relied upon for the present attack
upon the two sections of the District Code.
There is no occasion to discuss it in this case. That a
man may contract to be bound by a judgment in which
he has no right to be heard and that a statute may authorize him to make himself a party to such a judgment
was decided, if it needed a decision, in Beall v. New Mexico,
16 Wall. 535. It is argued that there is a difference if the
value of the property is not appraised but fixed by the
court. But there is nothing to hinder a man from assenting to that as well as to the rest if the statute permits it.
The suggestion that there is a constitutional difficulty has
no foundation. It is true that the section of the Code
speaks only of appraised value, but if by a reasonable construction appraisal is held to be a superfluous form when
there is no question that the property attached is worth

much more than the judgment, the omission must be taken
to have been contemplated by the surety when he signed.
The constitutional point is a mere pretext put forward in
order to open other questions that otherwise could not
come here. That pretext is not allowed to succeed, Goodrich v. Ferris,214 U. S. 71, 79, and therefore we shall not
deal with the attempt to obtain a reversal of the decision
upon a construction of the local statute by the local court,
not so manifestly absurd as to extend the surety's liability
in a way that could not have been foreseen, or matters of
local practice, such as holding that when the first verdict
against the Semmes-Kelly Company and a joint judgment
were set aside and the case put on the trial calendar, on the
motion of the plaintiff in error, 'as against' it, the whole
judgment was annulled.
Writ of error dismissed.

