OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

does not purport to contain all the evidence bearing upon
this point, but it does show that in some of the exhibits
the shipments included in the recovery were all listed and
designated as "Coal-Intrastate." In this situation the

conclusion reached by the state courts cannot be disturbed.
Judgment affirmed.

GENEVA FURNITURE MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. S. KARPEN & BROS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 496.

Submitted December 17, 1914.-Decided June 14, 1915.

Where the plaintiff really makes a substantial claim, under an Act of
Congress, the District Court has jurisdiction whether the claim ultiinately be held good or bad. The Fairv. Kohler Die Co., 222 U. S. 22.
Jurisdiction is the power to consider and decide one way or the other
as the law may require; it is not to be declined because it is not foreseen with certainty that the party invoking it may succeed.

Where a bill includes several causes of action, some arising under the
patent laws and others on breach of"contractual relations, and one
of the defendants is a corporation that cannot be sued in the district
without its consent, save in cases arising under the patent laws, the
rule in equity respecting joinder of causes of action yields to the
jurisdictional statute and, if the designated defendant objects to the
jurisdiction, the bill must be dismissed, so far as that defendant is
concerned, as to the causes of action not arising under the patent
laws.
Whether in such a case all the causes of action may be maintained in a
single bill as against the other defendants is a question".of general
equity jurisdiction and practice and is not open to consideration on
direct appeal to this court under § 238, Judicial Code. Bogart v.
Southern Pacific Co., 228 U. S. 137.

GENEVA FURNITURE CO. v. KARPEN.
238 U. S.
THE

Argument for Appellees.

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the District

Court in cases arising under the patent laws of the United
States, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thomas A. Banning and Mr. Samuel Walker
Banning for appellant:
The jurisdiction is conferred by bill for infringement.
The allegations if confessed or proven make out a case
under the patent laws.
The facts show actual infringement through the procurement of the defendants.
No claim is made that all violations of a licensed contract constitute infringement.
The acts of the Seng Company procured by the defendants constitutes an infringement.
What the parties have agreed to shall constitute infringing devices.
An unauthorized use of the licensed devices is an infringement. See Chadeloid Chemical Co. v. Johnson, 203
Fed. Rep. 995; ConsolidatedRubber Co. v. Republic Rubber
Co., 195 Fed. Rep. 770; Fair v. Kohler Die Co., 228 U. S.
24; Pope Mfg. Co. v. Owsley, 27 Fed. Rep. 108; United
States v. Larkin, 208 U. S. 338; Victor Talking Machine
Co. v. The Fair, 123 Fed. Rep. 425.
Mr. Levy Mayer, Mr. Isaac H. Mayer, Mr. John H. Lee
and Mr. Philip,C. Dyrenforth for appellees:
The bill of complaint showed no case under the patent.
laws, and the District Court therefore had no jurisdiction,
inasmuch as an indispensable defendant was sued, over
its protest, outside ofthe district of either its, or plaintiff's
residence.
The District Court did not, under any circumstances,
have jurisdiction to entertain that part of the bill seeking
specific performance, because the court could not acquire
jurisdiction over an indispensable defendant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appelees.

238 U. S.

In support of these contentions see Apapas v. United
States, 233 U. S. 587; Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1;
Bement v. National Harrow Co., 184 U. S. 70; Bogart v.
Southern Pacific Co., 228 U. S. 137; Bobbs-Merrill Co. v.
Straus, 210 U. S. 339; Brown v. Keene, 8 Peters, 112;
Chadeloid Chemical Co. v. Johnson, 203 Fed. Rep. 993;
Chappell v. United States, 160 U. S. 499; Colvin v. Jacksonville, 158 U. S. 456; Comptograph Co. v. Burroughs, 175
Fed. Rep. 787; aff'd, 183 Fed. Rep. 321; Courtney v.
Pradt, 196 U. S. 89; Cushman v. Atlantis Pen Co., 164
Fed. Rep. 94; Electric Boat Co. v. Lake Torpedo Boat Co.,
215 Fed. Rep. 377; Elgin Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co.,
179 U. S. 665; Excelsior Wooden Pipe Co. v. PacificBridge
Co., 185 U. S. 282; The Fair v. Kohler Die Co., 228
U. S. 22; Grace v. American Ins. Co., 109 U. S. 278;
Hanford v. Davies, 163 U. S. 273; Hartell v. Tilghman, 99
U. S. 547; Henry v. Dick, 224 U.. S.. 1; The Ira M.
Hedges, 218 U. S. 264; Johnson v. Brass Co., 201 Fed. Rep.
368; Keasby & Mattison Co. v. Cary Co., 113 Fed. Rep.
432; King v. Inlander, 133 Fed. Rep. 416; Leschen v. Broderick, 201 U. S. 166; Marconi Wireless Tel. Co. v. National Co., 206 Fed. Rep. 295, 300; Meckey v. Grabowski,
177 Fed. Rep. 591; Mitchell Coal Co. v. Penna. R. R.,
230 U. S. 247; Nat. Casket Co. v. New York Casket Co.,
185 Fed. Rep. 533; Nat. Coal Company v. C. &LN. W. R. R.,
211 Fed. Rep. 65; Nat. Harrow Co. v. Hench, 83 Fed. Rep.
36; New Marshall Co. v. Marshall Engine Co., 223 U. S.
473; Pope Mfg. Co. v. Owsley, 27 Fed: Rep. 100; Pratt v.
Paris Gas Co., 168 U. S. 255; St. Louis Mach. Co. v.
Sanitary Flushing Co., 161 Fed. Rep. 725; Standard Paint
Co. v. Trinidad Asphalt Co., 220 U. S. 446; The Steamship Jefferson, 215 U. S. 130; Vose v. Roebuck Co., 210
Fed. Rep. 687; S. C., 216 Fed. Rep. 523; Wilson v. Sanford,
10 How. 99; Woerheide v. John-Mawille Co., 199 Fed.
Rep. 535.

GENEVA FURNITURE CO. v. KARPEN.

238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a direct appeal under Jud. Code, §238, from a
decree dismissing a suit in equity for want of jurisdiction,
the question for decision being whether the bill presents
a case arising under the patent laws, that is, a case asserting some right or privilege under those laws which will be
sustained by one construction of them or defeated by
another. Although not a model of good pleading, the bill
plainly shows, when all of it is considered, that it is intended to charge the defendants (a) with contributing to
the infringement of letters patent belonging to the plaintiff by wrongfully inducing and persuading designated
licensees of the plaintiff to make, use and sell devices embodying the inventions of the patents in circumstances not
authorized or permitted by their licenses; (b) with wrongfully procuring such licensees to violate their license contracts in designated particulars, some of which have no
bearing on the charge of infringement, and (c) with refusing to perform stipulations whereby the defendants
agreed to assign to the plaintiff certain other letters patent.
The prayer is for an injunction and accounting in respect
of the contributory infringement, for an injunction and
damages in respect of the procured breach of the licensees'
contractual obligations, and for the specific performance
of the stipulations to assign the other letters patent.
The plaintiff is described as a New York corporation, one
of the defendants as a West Virginia corporation, another
as an Illinois corporation, and the third as an individual
citizen of the latter State. The West Virginia company
is alleged to have a regular and established place of business in the Northern District of Illinois, and the acts of
infringement and contributory infringement are charged
to have been committed in that district. Then there is an
allegation that the suit is one "arising under the patent
VOL. ccxxxvm-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

laws of the United States, and also between citizens of
different States," and that the amount in controversy
exceeds $3,000, exclusive of interest and costs.
If the suit be one arising under the patent laws the
District Court undoubtedly had jurisdiction, Jud. Code,
§ 24, par. 7, and §§ 48 and 256,. but if it be not such a suit
that court was obviously without jurisdiction as respects
the West Virginia company, unless it chose to waive its
privilege of being sued only in the district of its residence
or that of the plaintiff. § 51. Appearing specially, that
company objected that the suit was not one arising under
the patent laWs and insisted upon its personal privilege.
The objection was sustained. The other defendants, likewise appearing specially, objected that the suit did not
arise under the patent laws, and could not proceed without
the presence of the West Virginia company because it was
an indispensable party. This objection also was sustained,
and the bill was then dismissed, the decree reciting that
the dismissal was for want of jurisdiption.
We think the bill plainly rests the first branch of the
suit, that relating to the alleged contributory infringement
of the plaintiff's patents, upon~the patent laws and asserts
in effect, if not in exact words, that the infringing acts
charged against the defendants constitute an invasion of
the plaintiff's exclusive rights under those laws and entitle
it to relief thereunder by injunction and a recovery of
*profits and damages. And we think it cannot be said of
this branch of the case that it is so unsubstantial or devoid
of merit as to make it frivolous or to bring it only nominally
within the patent laws. On the contrary, we think it
presents a real question under them. Whether it shall
finally prevail or fail, it has enough of substance to entitle
the plaintiff to an adjudication of it as presented. Thus
it is within the ruling in The Fairv. Kohler Die Co., 228
'U. S. 22, 25, that "if the plaintiff really makes a substantial claim., under an act of Congress there is jurisdiction

GENEVA FURNITURE CO. v. KARPEN.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

whether the claim ultimately be held good or bad." Jurisdiction, as pointed out in that case, is the power to consider and decide one way or the other, as the law may require, and is not to be declined merely because it is not
foreseen with certainty that the outcome will help the
plaintiff. Of like import is Healy v. Sea Gull Specialty Co.,
237 U. S. 479.
We therefore hold that so much of the bill as charges
the defendants with contributory infringement of the
plaintiff's letters patent and seeks relief on that ground
presents a case arising under the patent laws of which the
District Court should have taken jurisdiction.
But the other portions of the bill stand upon a different
footing. The causes of action which they present-those
not founded upon an unauthorized making, using or
selling of devices embodying the inventions of the plaintiff's-patents but resting only upon a breach of contractual
obligations-do not arise under the patent laws. New
Marshall Co. v. Marshall Engine Co., 223 U. S. 473 ;,Henry
v. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, 14, 15. As to them no Federal
court can take jurisdiction of a suit against the West
Virginia company without its consent, save in the district
of its residence or that of the plaintiff, Jud. Code, § 51; and
it hardly needs statement that the jurisdiction as limited
and fixed by Congress cannot be enlarged or extended by
uniting in a single suit causes of action of which the court
is without jurisdiction with one of which it has jurisdiction. Upon this point the rule otherwise prevailing respecting the joinder of causes of action in suits in equity
must of course yield to the jurisdictional statute. Thus
the West Virginia company's objection while not good as to
the entire bill was good as to the causes of action not
arising under the patent laws. Whether these causes of
action can be retained as against the other defendants,
after they are eliminated so far as the West Virginia company is concerned, is not open to consideration now. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

238 U. S.

is not a question of Federal jurisdiction within the meaning
of § 238 but only one of general equity jurisdiction and
practice applicable as well to State as to Federal courts.
Bogart v. Southern Pacific Co., 228 U. S. 137, and cases
cited.
The decree of dismissal is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Decree reversed.

NEW YORK CENTRAL AND HUDSON RIVER
RAILROAD COMPANY v. CARR.
ERROR

TO THE

SUPREME COURT,

FOURTH DEPARTMENT,

No. 257.

APPELLATE DIVISION,

STATE OF NEW YORK.

Argued May 4, 1915.-Decided June 14, 1915.

During the same day railroad employds often and rapidly pass from
intrastate to interstate employment and the courts are constantly

called upon to decide close questions as to the dividing line between
the two classes of employment. Each case must be decided in the
light of its particular facts.
In this case, held, that:

A brakeman on an intrastate car in a train consisting of both
intrastate and interstate cars who is engaged in cutting out the intrastate car so that the train may proceed on its interstate business,
is while so doing engaged and employed in interstate commerce
and may maintain an action under the Employers' Liability Act.
158 App. Div. 891, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment for damages under the Employers' Liability Act,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Maurice C. Spratt and Mr. Lester F. Gilbert for
plaintiff in error:

