OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

238 U. S.

is not a question of Federal jurisdiction within the meaning
of ยง 238 but only one of general equity jurisdiction and
practice applicable as well to State as to Federal courts.
Bogart v. Southern Pacific Co., 228 U. S. 137, and cases
cited.
The decree of dismissal is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Decree reversed.

NEW YORK CENTRAL AND HUDSON RIVER
RAILROAD COMPANY v. CARR.
ERROR

TO THE

SUPREME COURT,

FOURTH DEPARTMENT,

No. 257.

APPELLATE DIVISION,

STATE OF NEW YORK.

Argued May 4, 1915.-Decided June 14, 1915.

During the same day railroad employds often and rapidly pass from
intrastate to interstate employment and the courts are constantly

called upon to decide close questions as to the dividing line between
the two classes of employment. Each case must be decided in the
light of its particular facts.
In this case, held, that:

A brakeman on an intrastate car in a train consisting of both
intrastate and interstate cars who is engaged in cutting out the intrastate car so that the train may proceed on its interstate business,
is while so doing engaged and employed in interstate commerce
and may maintain an action under the Employers' Liability Act.
158 App. Div. 891, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment for damages under the Employers' Liability Act,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Maurice C. Spratt and Mr. Lester F. Gilbert for
plaintiff in error:

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. v. CARR.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Recovery cannot be sustained under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, because neither the plaintiff nor
the defendant was, at the time and place of the accident,
engaged in interstate commerce. See A., T. & S. F. Ry.
v. PiUs, 145 Pac. Rep. 1148; Barlow v. Lehigh V. R. R.,
214 N. Y. 116; Connole v. Nor. & West. R. R., 216 Fed.
Rep. 824; Ill. Cent. R. R. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473;
Knowles v. N. Y. C. & H. R. R. R., 164 App. Div. 711;
LaCasse v. N. 0., T. & M. R. R., 135 Louisiana, 129; Lamphere v. Oregon R. & N. Cjo., 196: Fed. Rep. 336; McAuliffe
v. N. Y. C. & H. R. R. R., 164 App. Div. 846; Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Mondou v' N. Y., N. H. & H.
R. R., 223 U. S. 1; Nor. Car. R. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S.
248; Norton v. Erie R. R., 163 App. Div. 466; Patry v.
Chicago & W. I. Ry., 265 Illinois, 310, aff'g 185 Ill. App.
361; Pedersen v. D., L. & W. R. R., 229 U. S. 146; Reed
v. Great West. R. R. (1909), A. C. 31; Shanks v. D., L. & W.
R. R., 163 App. Div. 565; aff'd N. Y. Law Journal, April 7,
1915; Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492; Second
Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1; St. L., S. F. & T.
Ry. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156; StandardOil Co. v. Anderson,
212 U. S. 215; Southern Ry. v. United States, 222 U. S.
20; Safej Appliance Cases, 222 U. S. 20; Van Brimmer v.
Tex. & Pac. Ry., 190 Fed. Rep. 394; Wabash Ry. v. Hayes,.
234 U. S. 86.
Mr. Hamilton Ward, with whom Mr. John Lewis Smith
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.

Carr was a brakeman on a "pick-up" freight train
running from Rochester to Lockport over the lines of the
New York Central. On November 18, 1910, some of the
cars in this train contained interstate freight. Among
those engaged in purely intrastate business were the two

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

cars, at the head of the train and next to the engine, which
were to be left at North Tonawanda, New York. On arriving at that point they were uncoupled from the train,
pulled by the engine down the track, and then backed
into a siding. It was the duty of one brakeman (O'Brien),
to uncouple the air hose from the engine, and for the other
(Carr) to set the handbrakes in order to prevent the two
cars from rolling down upon the main track. O'Brien,
having failed to open the gauge to the stop-cock, suddenly and negligently "broke" the air hose. The result
was that the sudden escape of air,-applied only in cases
of emergency-violently turned the wheel handle attached
to the brake which Carr at the time was attempting to
set. The wrench threw Carr to, the ground and for the
injuries thus suffereaI he brought suit in a state court.
If the case was to be governed by the law of New York
he was not entitled to recover, since the injury was" due
to the negligence of O'Brien, a fellow-servant. He did
re.cover a verdict under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act and, the judgment thereon having been affirmed
(157 App. Div. 941; 158 App. Div. 891), the case is here
on writ of error to review that ruling.
The Railroad Company insists, that when the two cars
were cut out of the train and backed into a siding, they
lost their interstate character, so that Carr while working
thereon was engaged in intrastate commerce and not entitled to recover under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act. The scope of that statute is so broad that it covers
a vast field about which there can be no discussion. But
owing to the fact that, during the same day, railroad employ~s often and rapidly pass from one class of employment to another, the courts are constantly called upon to
decide those close questions where it is difficult to define
the line which divides the State from interstate business.
The present case is an instance of that kind-and many
arguments have been advanced by the Railway Company

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. v. CARR.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to support its contention that, as these two cars had been
cut out of the interstate train and put upon a siding, it
could not be said that one working thereon was employed
in interstate commerce. But the matter is not to be decided by considering the physical position of the employ6
at the moment of injury. If he is hurt in the course of his
employment while going to a car to perform an interstate
duty; or if he is injured while preparing an engine for an
interstate trip he is entitled to the benefits of the Federal
Act, although the accident occurred prior to the actual
coupling of the engine to the interstate cars. St. Louis &c.
Ry. v. Seale, 229 U. S.156; North CarolinaR.R. v. Zachary,
232 U. S. 248. This case is within the principle of those
two decisions.
The plaintiff was a brakeman on an interstate train.
As such, it was a part of his duty to assist in the switching,
backing and uncoupling of the two cars so that they might
be left on a siding in order that the interstate train might
proceed on its journey. In performing this duty it was
necessary to set the brake of the car still attached to the
interstate engine, so that, when uncoupled, the latter
might return to the interstate train and proceed with it,
with Carr and the other interstate employds, on its interstate journey.
The case is entirely different from that of Ill. Cent. R. R.
v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473, for there the train of empty cars
was running between two points in the. same State. The
fact that they might soon thereafter be used in interstate
business did not affect their intrastate status at the time
of the injury; for, if the fact that a car had been recently
engaged in interstate commerce, or was expected soon to
be used in such commerce, brought them within the class
of interstate vehicles the effect would be to give every
car on the line that character. Each case must be decided
in the light of the particular facts with a view of determining whether, at the time of the injury, the employd is

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

engaged in interstate business, or in an act which is so
directly and immediately connected with such business
as substantially to form a part or a necessary incident
thereof. Under these principles the plaintiff is to be
treated as having been employed in interstate commerce
at the time of his injury and the judgment in his favor
must be
Affifmed.

McDONALD AND UNITED STATES FIDELITY
AND GUARANTY COMPANY v. PLESS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 283. Argued May 13, 1915.-Decided June 14, 1915.
The Conformity Act-Rev. Stat., ยง914-does not apply to the
power of the court to inquire into the conduct of jurors. The courts
of each jurisdiction, state and Federal, must be in a position to adopt
and enforce their own self-preserving rules.
While Rev. Stat., ยง 914, does not apply in this case, this court recognizes the same policy that has been declared by that court and by
the courts in England and in most of the States of the Union, that
the testimony of a juror may not be received to prove the misconduct
of himself or his colleagues in reaching a verdict.
The rule, endorsed by this court in this case, that a'juror may not impeach his own verdict is based upon controlling considerations of
public policy which in such cases chooses the lesser of two evils.
While jurors should not reach a verdict by lot, or, as in this case, by
averaging the amounts suggested by each, the verdict may not be
set aside on the testimony of a juror as to his'misconduct or that of
his colleagues.
206 Fed. Rep. 263, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States in an
action for services, are stated in the opinion.

