OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

238 U. S.

PYLE, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF STEELE,
MILLER & COMPANY, v. TEXAS TRANSPORT &
TERMINAL COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 226, 227, 228, 229, 230. Argued April 16, 19, 1915.-Decided
June 1, 1915.
Whether the one receiving property from the bankrupt before the petition ha' cause to believe that he was receiving, and that it was intended to give to him, a preference is a matter of fact, and in an action to recover the property the burden of proof is upon the trustee.
In this case, parties who had advanced money on forged bills of lading
in the belief that they represented the goods actually moving from
designated points of shipment and had, just before the. petition, received from the bankrupt genuine bills of lading representing the
same goods, physical possession of which was in the carriers issuing
the genuine bills, were entitled to possession of the goods; and, under
the circumstances of this case, the substitution of the genuine, for the
false, bills did not amount to an illegal preference under the Bankruptcy Act.
203 Fed. Rep. 1023, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a trustee in bankruptcy to maintain an action for the recovery of property
of the bankrupt and what constitutes a preference under

that Act. are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Win. C. Dufour, with whom Mr. W. J. Lamb, Mr.
H. Generes Dufour and Mr. George Janvier, were on the

brief, for appellant:
The preference was an unfair one.
The French bankers considered conditions abnormal.
The time of preference and the relations of Scheuch & Co.

show that there was a preference.

PYLE v. TEXAS TRANSPORT CO.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The whole cotton world had been placed on guard by
Knight, Yancey failure.
"Kiting," such as occurred in this case, is first sign of
insolvency.
The security given up was worthless and the substitution of good security amounted to a preference.
In support of these contentions, see Alexander v. Redmond, 180 Fed. Rep. 96; 24 Am. & Eng. Enc. 1066; The
CarlosF. Roses, 177 U. S. 671; Coleman v. Decatur Egg Co.,
186 Fed. Rep. 136; 2 Cyc. 565; First Natl. Bank v. Abbott,
165 Fed. Rep. 853; Forbes v. Howe, 3 A. B. R. 475; S. C.,
102 Massachusetts, 427; In re Gesas, 146 Fed. Rep. 734;
Great Western Mfg. Co., 152 Fed. Rep. 123; Hentz v. Lovell,
192 Fed. Rep. 762; Re Hoghton Web Co., 185 Fed. Rep. 213;
Hoover v. Maher,51 Minnesota, 53; Lewis v. Julius, 212 Fed.
Rep. 225; Lovell v. Newman, 192 Fed. Rep. 753; Re Manning, 123 Fed. Rep. 180; Re McDonald, 178 Fed. Rep. 487;
Obiter Iron Co. v. Rolling Mill Co., 125 Fed. Rep. 794;
Parker v. Black, 143 Fed. Rep. 561; Re Reese Brick Co.,
131 Fed. Rep. 643; Remington on Bankruptcy, page 774;
The St. Jose Indiano, 1 Wheat. 208; Sawyer v. Turpin, 91
U. S. 114, 120; Soisson v. First Nat'l Bank, 131 Fed.
Rep. 643; Stewart v. Platt, 101 U. S. 731; Re Deuschl6, 182
Fed. Rep. 435; Re Virginia Hardwood Co., 139 Fed. Rep.
209.
Mr. Victor Leovy, with whom Mr. George Denegre and
Mr. Joseph Paxton Blair were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
These causes, begun at the same time, were tried and
decided together in the United States District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (192 Fed. Rep. 725), and
also in the Circuit Court of Appeals (203 Fed. Rep. 1023).

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U.S.

The original bills, except as to details concerning times,
amounts, etc., are essentially identical; by stipulation the
evidence in each one became part of the record in the
others; and all the appeals may be conveniently considered
in a single opinion.
The proceedings were instituted August 18, 1910, by
Pyle, Trustee in bankruptcy of Steele, Miller & Company,
to recover 2,494 bales of cotton in custody of an ocean
carrier at New Orleans, transfer of which by the bankrupts to appellee banks, acceptors of their twenty-five
drafts'aggregating $183,048.46 it is alleged, constituted a
preference voidable under §§ 60-a and 60-b of the Bankrupt Law (c. 541, 30 Stat. 544, 562) as it stood after amendments of February 5, 1903 (c. 487, 32 Stat. 797, 799, 800),
and prior to June 25,1910 (c. 412,36 Stat. 838,842). These
sections are copied in the margin.'
Steele, Miller & Company were merchants at Corinth,
Mississippi, engaged in exporting cotton. Scheuch &
Company were merchants and importers domiciled at
1 SEC. 60-a. A person shall be deemed to have given a preference if,

being insolvent, he has, within four months before the filing of the petition, or after the filing of the petition and before the adjudication, procured or suffered a judgment to be entered against himself in favor of
any person, or made a transfer of any of his property, and the effect
of the enforcement of such judgment or transfer will be to enable any
one of his creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his debt than any
other of such creditors of the same class. Where the preference consists
in a transfer, such period of four months shall not expire until four
months 6fter the date of.the recording or registering of the transfer, if
by law such recording or registering is required.
SEC. 60-b. If a bankrupt shall have given a preference, and the person receiving it, or to be benefited thereby, or his agent acting therein,
shall have had reasonable cause to believe that it was intended thereby
to give a preference, it shall be voidable by the trustee, and he may
recover the property or its value from such person. And, for the purpose of such recovery, any court of bankruptcy, as hereinbefore defined, and any state court which would have had jurisdiction if bankruptcy had not intervened, shall have concurrent jurisdiction.

PYLE v. TEXAS TRANSPORT CO.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Havre, France. The Bank de Mulhouse, Comptoir
D'Escompte de Mulhouse, Societe Generale, and Credit
Havrais are French banks doing business at Havre; and
Paul Chardin is a banker and cotton merchant of that
city. The Compagnie Generale Transatlantique is an
ocean carrier. It owned the steamship Texas; and Texas
Transport & Terminal Company was its agent at New
Orleans.
In 1909 the bankrupts engaged to consign large quantities of cotton to Scheuch & Company for sale, and the
latter on their own responsibility arranged for reimbursement credits with the banks, who, according to established trade custom, undertook to accept drafts drawn on
themselves ,by consignors for value of shipments when
accompanied by proper bills of lading, insurance papers,
etc.-"all necessary documents." In the honest course
Steele, Miller & Company delivered 100 bales of cottotto
a railroad carrier for through shipment to Havre taking
therefor a bill of lading to their own order containing
marks, number of bales, etc., and direction to notifi
Scheuch & Company. The bill with accompanying doouments was then annexed to a draft for the consignment's
approximate market price, addressed to the Havre bank
and specifying (marks being changed to meet the circumstances) "value received and charge to account R. D.
A. R. 1/100 bales cotton." This was discounted and
ultimately accepted and paid. Upon arrival at Havre
the drawee bank received and held the cotton until reimbursed by Scheuch & Company.
Finding themselves in financial difficulties Steele, Miller
& Company prior to September, 1909, began to forge
and use through railroad bills of lading resembling genuine
ones in all respects. Having utilized one of these to procure discount of a draft they would thereafter assemble
100 bales marked with a combination of four letters
identically as designated in the false instrument, forward

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

these to New Orleans, and there deliver them to an ocean
carrier receiving a port or ocean bill of lading to their own
order bearing the same identifying marks, etc. The
genuine bill would then be sent by mail to Scheuch &
Company with instructions to deliver to the bank holding
corresponding forged one and return the latter. Such
requested exchanges were made through a considerable
period, the banks having been satisfied by a plausible
explanation that bankrupts had made some arrangement
with the carriers and that shipments were thus expedited,
given through Scheuch & Company who, although at first
ignorant of the frauds, were fully informed as early as
March, 1910.
During December, 1909, and January and February,
1910, the bankrupts drew the twenty-five drafts-each
for about $7,300, approximate market value of 100 baleshere involved on the separate appellee banks, attaching to
each a fictitious through railroad bill of lading; and in due
course these were accepted and paid in entire good faith.
Prior to April 6, 1910, while insolvent, the bankrupts
assembled in Mississippi and Tennessee the number of
bales specified by the several forged bills marked as therein
stated, shipped them to New Orleans and there delivered
them to the Compagnie Generale Transatlantique for
transportation to Havre. The ocean carrier issued to
bankrupts for each 100 bales a port 'or ocean bill with
same marks, etc.; and placed cotton aboard the Texas.
The bankrupts promptly endorsed'the genuine bills and
forwarded them by mail to Scheuch & Company with
directions to deliver to banks holding corresponding fictitious ones and return the latter. Deliveries were made in
Havre on April 26, May 3 and May 7; but because of disquieting rumors concerning wrongful practices by others
the banks retained both forged and genuine documents.
They had no actual knowledge of the frauds practiced
upon them until May 8, when information was received

PYLE v. TEXAS TRANSPORT CO.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

concerning the receiver's bill filed during the preceding
day.
About April 20, 1910, the failure of Knight, Yancey &
Company & Company, large exporting cotton merchants
at Decatur, Alabama, was announced, and shortly thereafter wide publicity was given to the fact that they had
made extensive use of forged through railroad bills of
lading with foreign drafts. Steele, Miller & Company
suspended payment April 29; bankruptcy proceedings
were instituted against them May 4; removal -from New
Orleans of cotton covered by the above-described ocean
bills was enjoined in a proceeding by the receiver filed
May 7; and on August 18 the instant causes were begun.
The bill in No. 226 (typical of all) alleges-" Steele,
Miller & Company, being then insolvent, with intent to
prefer said Bank of Mulhouse or Scheuch & Company, or
both of them, over their other creditors, did deposit in the
United States mail the said port bills of lading, the said
bills of lading being addressed to Scheuch & Company,
and the same having been endorsed by Steele, Miller &
Company, the object and purpose of forwarding said port
bills of lading being to substitute the same for the forged
and worthless bill or bills of lading attached to the drafts
held by the said Bank of Mulhouse or Scheuch & Company, or both of them, and that said port bills of lading in
due course were received by Scheuch & Company and
delivered to the Bank of Mulhouse. . . . Your
orator avers that the transmission of said port bills of
lading to be substituted for the said fraudulent bills of
lading was done with the intent to prefer the said Bank
of Mulhouse, and that when the said bills of lading were
mailed to the said Scheuch & Company for delivery to the
Bank of Mulhouse, and were received by the said Scheuch
& Company and delivered to the Bank of Mulhouse, the said
Scheuch & Company and the said Bank of Mulhouse, in
accepting the said bills of lading and permitting the sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

stitution of the said valid and port or custody bills of lading
for the worthless bills of lading then held, knew or should
have known and had reasonable cause to believe, that a
preference was thereby given and intended, and knew or
should have known that Steele Miller & Company was
at said time insolvent, and that the effect of the mailing,
the receipt and acceptance and substitution of said bills
of lading was to enable the said Scheuch & Company or
the said Bank of Mulhouse to obtain payment of its said
.draft; and your orator now charges that the effect of the
act hereinabove described, if maintained and permitted
by this Honorable Court, will be to enable the said Bank of
Mulhouse or Scheuch & Company, or both of them, to
obtain a greater per cent. of their said debt than any other
creditor of said bankrupt, and that such acts should be
set aside. Your orator charges the acts hereinabove complained of were performed within four months prior to the
filing of the petition of involuntary bankruptcy herein,
and your orator is advised that the act or acts complained
of are voidable at his election, and he does now elect to
avoid the same and files this his bill to avoid said transfor." And it prays "that upon the final hearing of this
bill this Court will set aside the transfer of the said 900
bales of cotton by the said bankrupt to the said Bank of
Mulhouse or Scheuch & Company, or both of them, and
hold the same void and of no effect, and decree that the
title to the said cotton and the right of possession thereof
is in your orator and will permit your orator to take possession of said cotton and administer the same, or the
proceeds thereof, for the benefit of the creditors." . .
Appellant trustee maintains that he is seeking to set
aside a preference as authorized by statute; that the
French banks became mere ordinary unsecured creditors
of Steele, Miller & Company by paying drafts with forged
bills of lading attached as security; and that when genuine
bills were substituted for spurious ones these banks had

PYLE v. TEXAS TRANSPORT CO.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

positive information of the bankrupts' insolvency and
knew or should have known that they were receiving an
intended preference.
In behalf of appellee banks it is insisted that the transactions between them and bankrupts were in the nature of
sales and by marking and shipping the cotton before bankruptcy it was appropriated to the contracts; that bankrupts had no purpose to give a preference; and certainly
the banks had no reasonable cause to believe they were
receiving an intended preference.
The trial judge, relying upon "The Idaho," 93 U. S. 575,
held the cotton was appropriated before bankruptcy
to prior contracts between the parties. He further said:
"I am not convinced that Steele, Miller & Company intended a preference, as it seems to me they uniformly
discounted drafts purporting to be secured by bills of
lading for cotton, which were in reality forged, and thereafter shipped the cotton to prevent discovery of their
dishonest methods, and that their transactions with the
bank were in the usual course of business and without any
intention on their part other than to conceal their true
methods. Furthermore, while the facts on which they
might be charged with notice ought to have excited the
suspicion of the bank, I am not prepared to say that they
had knowledge, constructive or actual, of Steele, Miller
& Company's insolvency, or that a preference was intended." The bill was accordingly dismissed and the
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed this action upon authority of Lovell v. Newman & Son, 192 Fed. Rep. 753,
and Hentz & Co. v. Lovell, 192 Fed. Rep. 762.
Admitting that title to the cotton in question passed,
the trustee now seeks annulment of the consummated
transfer because a preference would result therefrom. In
Lovell v. Newman & Son, supra, recovery was asked upon
the theory that the title had remained in the bankrupts.
By the statute's very words in order to set aside such a
VOL. ccxxxvlII-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

transfer and recover the property it must appear that
"the person receiving it, or to be benefited thereby, or
his agent acting therein, shall have had reasonable cause
to believe that it was intended thereby to give a preference." Whether such "reasonable cause to believe"
existed is a question of fact and the burden of proof is
upon the trustee. Coder v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223, 240;
Wright v. Sampter, 152 Fed. Rep. 196, 198; McNaboe v.
Columbian Mfg. Co., 153 Fed. Rep. 967, 968; Tumlin v.
Bryan, 165 Fed. Rep. 166, 167, 168; Reber v. Shulman,
183 Fed. Rep. 564, 565; Kimmerle v. Farr,189 Fed. Rep.
295, 299-300; Mayes v. Palmer, 208 Fed. Rep. 97, 98, 101.
Considering the whole record we are unable to conclude
that appellee banks had reasonable cause to believe that
by transferring the genuine bills of lading to them a preference was intended or given; and accordingly without
undertaking to decide other interesting questions raised
we must affirm the decree of the court below. Prior to
May 8, 1910, the banks thought the forged bills in their
keeping represented cotton actually moving from designated points of shipment. They were unaware of the
bankrupts' crimes; and in the circumstances we cannot
say they either believed or ought to have believed that
they were receiving anything more than-new receipts for
their own property phybieal possession of which had passed
during transit from a responsible railroad to a trustworthy
steamship company.
Affirmed.

