OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

defendants in error, his corporeal possession (as expressly
stipulated) was limited east and north by the Bristol
traverse lines and he never occupied, or exercised any
act of corporeal possession over the above-indicated
forty acres or more without the same.
Considering all disclosures of the record we are unable
to conclude the court below erred in holding original
patent from the United States* to Pitts conveyed no
title to lands in controversy, and its judgment must be
affirmed.
It seems proper to add that nothing in this opinion or
the judgment to be entered thereon shall be taken to
%prejudiceor impair any right which the United States
-may have in respect to the lands in controversy.
Affirmed.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
STATE OF MINNESOTA EX REL. STATE
RAILROAD & WAREHOUSE COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF THE STATE OF

MINNESOTA.
No. 225.

Argued April 16, 1915.-Decided June 14, 1915.

An order of a state railroad commission requiring a railroad company
to install and maintain scales amountsto a taking-of the company's
property; and, if the order is arbitrary or unreasonable, the taking
is without due process of law and in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The facts established must be adequate as a matter of law to support a
finding of requisite public necessity in justifying an order of a state
railroad commission to require a railroad company to expend money
-the mere declaration of the commission is not conclusive.
The business of a railroad is transportation and to supply the public

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. MINNESOTA.
238 U. S.

Argument for. the Plaintiff in Error.

with conveniences not connected therewith is no part of its ordinary
duty.
Even though the state railroad commission may have power conferred
by statute to require railroad companies to supply necessary demands of the public along their transportation lines, the Commission
may only require them to supply such demands as are within the
duty of a raijroad company.
Where facilities ,afforded by a railroad company are at certain of its
stations outside of its actual duty to supply but produce discrimination, the railroad commission of the State may not absolutely require it to supply such facilities at every station in order to inhibit
discrimination; it must give the company the opportunity of discontinning furnishing the facilities where supplied and thus to avoid
discrimination in that manner if it sees fit so to do.
Possessions of a railroad company are subject to its public duty but
beyond this and within charter limits, like other owners of private
property, the company may control its own affairs.
An order of the Minnesota State Railroad Commission requiring a
railroad company to install weighing scales at'a station similar to
those installed at some of its stations in order to abate discrimination
held arbitrary and unreasonable as it did not give the company the
alternative right of discontinuing the scales at those stations where
they were installed and abating the discrimination in that manner,
as the scales while conveniences of the public had no direct part
in transportation.
122 Minnesota, 55, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the power of a State Railroad
Commission to require a carrier to erect weighing scales
at stations, and the validity of an order of the Minnesota
Railroad and Warehouse Commission, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. E. C. Lindley and Mr. Sanford H. E. Freund for
plaintiff in error:
The order of the Commission requiring the railway
company to install the scales in question for the convenience of stockmen and farmers in connection with private
transactions deprives the railway company of its property
without due process *of law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

238 U. S.

Conceding for the sake of argument the authority of the
State to exact of the railway company non-discriminatory
service, the order in question contravenes the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution in that it does
not give the railway company the alternative of removing
the alleged discrimination against Bertha by.withdrawing
from the stockmen at Eagle Bend and Hewitt the privilege of the use of stock scales in the transaction of their
private business.
In support of these contentions, see Donovan v. Pennsylvania Co., 199 U. S. 279; Mo. Pac. Ry. v. Nebraska,
164 U. S. 403; Mo. Pacific Ry. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S.
196; New Mexico Wool Growers v. Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Ry., 145 Pac. Rep. 1077; Pennsylvania Co. v.
United States, 236 U. S. 351; Oregon R. R. & Nay. Co. v.
Fairchild,224 U. S. 409.
Mr..Lyndon A. Smith, Attorney General of the State of
Minnesota, with whom Mr. Alonzo J. Edgerton, Assistant
Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, was on the
brief, for defendant' in error:
Stock scales are railroad facilities, and therefore the
State Railway Commission has authority to order in
scales.
stock
Authority
of Commission should be so interpreted as
to sustain its action.
Discrimination existed before and without this order.
Confiscation is never due to ordering devices useful in
railroad work.
In support of these contentions see Atl. Coast Line v. Nor.
Car. Corp. Comm., 206 U. S. 1; Ayers v. Chicago & N. W.
Ry., 71 Wisconsin, 372; Chic., R. I. & Pac.Ry. v. Nebraska,
85 Nebraska, 818; Corporation Comm. v. Railroad, 139 N.
Car. 133; Covington Stock Yards Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S.
128; Farwell Warehouse v. Minn., St. P. & S. Ste. M. Ry.,
55 Minnesota, 13; Gladson v. G. Nor. Ry., 166 U. S. 127;

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. MINNESOTA.*
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Minn. & St. P. R. R. v. Minnesota, 193 U. S. 53; Mo.
Pac. Ry. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403; Minnesota v. Minn.
& St. L. R. R., 76 Minnesota, 469; New Mexico Wool
Growers v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry., 145 Pac. Rep. 1077;
Railroad Comm. v. G. Nor. Ry., 124 Minnesota, 533; Riddle v. New York, L. E. & W. Ry., 1 . C. C. 787; Minnesota
v. G. Nor. Ry., 123 Minnesota, 463; Minnesota v. Nor.
Pac. Ry., 90 Minnesota, 227; Washington v. Fairchild,
224 U. S. 510; Wisconsin &c. R. R. v. Jacobson, 179
U. S.287.
Mi.JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
An order of the Minnesota Railroad & Warehouse Commission (October 26, 1911) directing the Great Northern
Railway Company to *erect within forty-five days at least
a six-ton scale in its stockyard at the village Bertha, Todd
County, was sustained by the Supreme Court of the State
(122 Minnesota, 55, 57-58); the cause is here by writ of
error; and it is contended that enforcement of order, as
promulgated, would deprive the Railway of its property
without due process of law contrary to the inhibition of
the Fourteenth Amendment. The Supreme Court said:
"At the trial the appellant offered no evidence but
rested upon the evidence presented by the respondent and
the facts are undisputed. They are in substance as follows:
That in the year 1910 stock was shipped in carload lots
from 259 of appellant's stations in the State of Minnesota;
that the number of carloads so shipped from the different
statiofis varied from one at each of 32 stations to 414 at
the station of Jasper; that appellant has installed stock
scales, each of six ton capacity, at 54 of these stations;
that these scales are located adjacent to the stockyards,
but are not adjacent to nor connected with the railway
track or buildings; that they are convenient for and are

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

used by dealers and stock raisers.in buying and selling,
but no obligation to ship over the railway is imposed by
such use; that stock raisers who would otherwise market
their stock at Bertha sometimes take it to Hewitt or
Eagle Bend, a longer distance, in order to have the use of
the scales installed at' those places; that such scales tend
to draw the stock business to and concentrate it at the
places where they are located; that where these scales are
available shippers are accustomed to weigh their stock,
for their own convenience and information, immediately
before loading for shipment, but these weights are not
used as a basis for freight charges, nor in any transactions
between the shipper and the railway company, nor in
sales made at the terminal stockyards; that, after stock
is loaded, the carload is weighed at some suitable point
upon track scales which are under the supervision of the
State, and the freight charges and all the transactions
between the shipper and the company are based exclusively upon this weight; and that these stock scales are not
used in any manner in the business transacted between
the railway company and its patrons.
"The witnesses testifying for respondent insisted that
stock scales were a convenience, if not a necessity, in
dealing in stock, and that a town having such scales
possessed an advantage, as .a stock market, over a town
that did not, but frankly admitted that these scales had
no direct part in the business of transportation, nor in the
business of selling at the terminal yards.
"As scales are a convenience ard, probably, a necessity
in dealing in stock, and tend to cause stock to be collected
for shipment at the places where they are available, to the
disadvantage of those places where they are not available,
and are undoubtedly furnished for the purpose and with
the view of securing the transportation of stock from
points at which- they are located, it is the opinion of a
majority of the members of the court that the evidence

.GT. NORTHERN RY.,v. MINNESOTA.
238 U. S.

345

Opinion of the Court.

submitted, together with the fact that the company considered such scales of sufficient importance to its business
to furnish them voluntarily at 54 of its stockyards in this
State, is sufficient to support the finding that such scales
"Pertain to the transportation facilities which the commission may require of a railroad and'that the refusal to
supply such scales to the station in question was a discrimination against it."
Manifestly, if the order is enforced plaintiff in error's
property will be taken. Whether this would be without
due process of law depends upon the special circumstances.
The applicable principles were announced in Oregon
Railroad &c. Co. v. Fairchild, 224 U. S. 510, 524. A
taking of railroad property under administrative regulation must" be tested by considering whether, in view of all
the facts, the taking was arbitrary and unreasonable or was
justified by the public necessities which the carrier could
'lawfully be compelled to theet." The facts being established the question then presented is whether as matter of
law they are adequate to support a finding of requisite
public necessity-the mere declaration of a commission
is not conclusive. Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Louis. & Nash. Railroad, 227 U. S. 88, 91; Florida East
Coast Line v. United States, 234 U. S. 167, 185.
It appears from the Supreme Court's findings that sixton scales installed by the Railway at 54 of its 259 stockshipping stations in Minnesota were not used in transactions between carrier and shippers. All witnesses declared
these instruments had no direct part in transportation or
selling at terminal yards but were convenient .in stock
dealings and a station possessing one had an advantage
over the place where none existed.
The business of a railroad is transportation and to supply the public with conveniences not connected therewith
is no part of its ordinary duty. The obvious purpose of
the challenged order was to enforce installation at Bertha

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

of a scale like those at Eagle Bend and Hewitt and dedicated to same use. Under admitted facts, unless justified
by alleged unlawful discrimination, we think this was an
arbitrary and unreasonable exercise of power. It is no
answer to say, as counsel do, that the Commission has
"general authority to require railroad companies to supply
the necessary demands of the public along transportation
lines; that it has a right to require the company to build
and maintain such facilities as are necessary for the public
needs." The demands upon a carier which lawfully
may be made are limited by its duty, and the present
record conclusively shows the required structure had no
direct relation thereto. See New Mexico Wool Growers'
Association v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry., 145 Pac.
Rep. 1077.
The Railway Company does not presently controvert
the finding that scales at Eagle Bend and Hewitt brought
about discrimination, but maintains the Commission
acted arbitrarily and unreasonably in seeking to eliminate
this by peremptorily requiring construction of another
without giving opportunity to accomplish the same result
through discontinuing the use of those already installed.
This contention is sound and must be sustained. Conceding power to inhibit discrimination the Commission
could not exercise it unreasonably by needlessly taking
property or, what comes to the same thing, obliging incurrence of expense wholly unnecessary. It by no means
follows, simply because a railroad voluntarily supplies
a convenience at some stations which attracts trade, that
it can be commanded positively to do likewise at other
places along the line. A railroad's possessions are subject
to its public duty but beyond this and within charter
limits, like other owners of private property, it may control its own affairs. Discontinuing the use of existing
scales would abate the alleged discrimination and probably
entail little, if any, outlay. The Commission's order pre-

GUINN v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

cluded use of this method to bring about lawful conditions
and therein, we think, was plainly arbitrary and unreason.
able. Missouri Pacific Railway v. Nebraska, 164 U. S.
403, 417; Donovan v. Pennsylvania Company, 199 U. S.
279, 293; Missouri Pacific Railway v. Nebraska, 217 U. S.
196, 206.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.

GUINN AND BEAL v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 96. Argued October 17, 1913.-Decided June 21, 1915.

The so-called Grandfather Clause of the amendment to the constitution of Oklahoma of 1910 is void because it violates the Fifteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The Grandfather Clause being unconstitutional and not being separable
from the remainder of the amendment td the constitution of Oklahoma of 1910, that amendment Em a whole is invalid.
The Fifteenth Amendment does not, in a general sense, take from the
States the power over suffrage possessed by the States from the beginning, but it does restrict the power of the United States or the
States to abridge or deny the right of a citizen of the United States
to vote on account of race, color or previous condition of servitude.
While the Fifteenth Amendment gives no right of suffrage, as its command is self-executing, rights of suffrage may be enjdyed by reason
of the striking out of discriminations against the exercise of the

right.
A provision in a state constitution recurring to conditions existing before the adoption of the Fifteenth Amendment and the continuance
of which conditions that amendment prohibited, and making those

