OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

CHATER v. CARTER, EXECUTOR OF HARTWELL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
HAWAII.

No. 544.

Argued April 30, May 3, 1915. -Decided

June 21, 1915.

A trust of certificates of stock to cause dividends thereon to be paid to a
designated party as beneficiary for a specified period and on the
expiration thereof to transfer the stock itself to the beneficiary if
living unless childless in which event the trustee was to hold the
stock and pay the dividends to the beneficiary during life and on
the death of the beneficiary to distribute to designated parties, held,.
in this case, to have failed in -iase of the death of the beneficiary
within the period specified both as to the stock and the dividends and
that the trustee was bound to return the stock to the donor and that i t
did not pass to the heirs or personal representative of the beneficiary.
Injconstruinga declaration of trust, in this case in form of a ldter and
phrased in simple language, the guiding principle is to seek the intention of the maker, as expressed in the instrument; and the court is
not called upon to strain the meaning of words, as is sometimes done
in the case of wills so as to avoid intestacy.
Where the death of the beneficiary defeats the trust and le ves the
trustee without directions or authority to transfer the fund to any
beneficiary, as he is fundus officio and cannot in equity rt tain the
fund for himself, there is a resulting trust for the donor to whom
he must redeliver the fund.
22 Hawaii, 34, affirmed.

THIS is an appeal from a decree of the Supreme Court
of Hawaii (22 Hawaii, 34), affirming a decree of the Circuit

Court of the same Territory which dismissed a bill .in
equity brought by Charles Iartwell Chater, a minor,
by his father, Charles H. Chater, as next friend and
guardian, in which the father joined, as a complainant

in his own right and as Administrator of the estate of
his deceased wife, Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater; the
defendants being Alfred W. Carter, as trustee of a trust

CHATER v. CARTER.
238 U. S.

573

Statement of the Case.

created by the late Alfred S. Hartwell, deceased, in his
lifetime, Alfred W. Carter as the executor of the will of
Alfred S. Hartwell, deceased, Mabel R. Hartwell, and
the Hawaiian Sugar Company, a corporation organized
and existing under the laws of the Territory of Hawaii.
The object of the bill was to require an accounting and
transfer of 585 shares of the capital stock of the Sugar
Company and the dividends declared thereon since
August, 1909, including 2921 2 shares of new stock issued
as a dividend. The case was heard upon an agreed statement of facts in substance as follows:
"Alfred S. Hartwell died in Honolulu on the 30th day
of August, 1912, leaving a will, duly proved in the Circuit
Court of the First Circuit, Territory of Hawaii, on the
15th day of October, 1912. The defendant Alfred W.
Carter was appointed executor in said will and qualified
and is now acting as such. Charles A. Hartwell, also
appointed, did not qualify. The deceased was from 1868
to 1874 a judge of the Supreme Court' of Hawaii, from
1874 to 1904 one of the leading attorneys in Hawaii, and
from 1904 to 1907 a judge, and from 1907 to 1911 chief
justice of the Supreme Court of Hawaii. He was the
father of seven daughters all of whom except Charlotte
Lee Hartwell Chater now survive, to-wit, the five named
in the instrument dated March 27, 1909, attached to
the complaint herein marked 'Exhibit A,' namely: Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater, Mabel R. Hartwell, Dorothy
Hartwell, Bernice Hartwell and Juliette Hartwell, ('Lottie
Lee,' named in said instrument Exhibit 'A,' being Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater, and 'Mabel,' being Mabel R.
Hartwell), and also Madeline Hartwell Judd and Edith
Hartwell Carter, the latter being then and now the wife
of Alfred W. Carter, defendant. Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater had been married to the complainant, Charles
H. Chater, shortly before the date of said instrument,
to-wit, on July 15, 1908, and was then on March 27, 1909,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

of the age of 2.2 years and without children. The daughters named in said instrument, other than said Charlotte
and Mabel, were at that time unmarried. All the daughters were of age. Mabel had children, who still survive.
"Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater died in Natick, in
the County of Middlesex, Commonwealth of Massachusetts, where she had been residing with her husband,
Charles H. Chater, on the 3rd day of September, 1909,
in childbirth, intestate, leaving the complainants, her
husband, Charles H. Chater, and one child, the complainant, Charles Hartwell Chater, who was born on
August 30, 1909; thereafterwards, on the 15th day of
November, 1909, the Probate Court of the County of
Middlesex duly appointed the complainant, Charles H.
Chater, administrator of the estate of said Charlotte Lee
Hartwell Chater, and issued letters.to him, and he duly
qualified as such and is now aeting; and said Probate
Court, on the 17th day of December, 1909, duly appointed
said Charles H. Chater guardian of the person and estate
of the complainant, Charles Hartwell Chater, and issued
letters of guardianship to said Charles H. Chater, who
qualified and is now guardian of said Charles Hartwell
Chater.
"The Hawaiian Sugar Company is and was at all
times hereinafter named a corporation existing under
the laws of the Territory of Hawaii, having its usual
place of business in Honolulu, in said Territory.
"Said Alfred S. Hartwell, being a man of ample means
and the owner of a large number of shares in the Hawaiian
Sugar Company, on the 27.th day of March, 1909, transferred to the name of Alfred W. Carter, as trustee for
Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater, 585 of such shares and
caused a certificate to be issued to the said Alfred W.
Carter as trustee for Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater for
said 585 shares, and delivered said certificate to said Al-

CHATER v. CARTER.
238 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

fred W. Carter, Trustee, and, at the same time, executed
and delivered a declaration of trust, as follows:
"Honolulu, T. H., March 27, 1909.
"Mr. Alfred W. Carter, City."DEAR ALFRED: I enclose certificate in your name as
trustee for Juliette for 415 shares and another certificate
in your name as trustee for Dorothy for 420 shares,
another in your name as trustee for, Lottie Lee for 585
shares, also a certificate in Lottie Lee's name (being
those which I gave her before she was married) for 250
shares, also three blank forms of receipts in duplicate
for you to sign and hand to me, if you please.
"The trust for both Juliette and Dorothy is to see that
the dividends are paid to them, or, what I presume would
be better, placed to their credit with Bishop & Co. where
each of them now has an account. If either of them should
die before returning here her shares are to be divided
between the two surviving unmarried girls; if neither
of them returns both their shares to go to Bernice, if
living, otherwise to all the surviving sisters equally.
I am aware that this is simply a temporary arrangementI hope it is-and that either of them has a right to call
upon you to make over the shares to her at any
time.
"The trust for Lottie Lee is to cause the dividends to
be paid to her during the three years from January 1st
next and if she shall then be living to transfer the shares
to her or hold them in trust for her benefit as she may
in writing request, unless at the end of three years she
shall have no child living, in which case the trustee is to
hold the stock paying her the dividends during her lifetime, with power to change the investment and vary
it at any time at discretion and at her death to divid
the trust funds or securities equally among her sisters
who shall then be living, and if none shall then be living
among their children. then living, my object being, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S

Mr. Chater will observe, that as to these additional 585
shares they shall remain in my family.
"I also enclose for you to retain for Mabel Certificate No. - in her name for 200 shares Hawaiian Sugar
Stock.
"I have been arranging with the Brewers to draw my
salary and to pay Lottie Lee and Mabel on the 15th of
each month their dividends. I can continue to do this
although it may be better for some reasons to arrange
with Alexander & Baldwin to remit the dividends directly
to them from New York, in which case there would be a
charge of 20 ct. a hundred unless they shall accede to my
request to make no charge for exchange.
"I also enclose certificate in Bernice's name for 420
shares which I am now giving her and also for 165 shares
which I gave her recently. I do not know where the
certificate for 250 shares which I formerly gave her is.
I think it would be wise if the certificates of all the girls
should be retained in your office and to have that understood by them.
"Very truly,
"ALFRED S. HARTWELL.
"This declaration of trust is the aforesaid 'Exhibit A.'
"At the same time, similar certificates were issued and
delivered to said Alfred W. Carter, as trustee for Juliette
Hartwell and Dorothy Hartwell, for the shares mentioned
in said declaration.
"On the same day Alfred S. Hartwell caused a certificate to be issued in the name of Charlotte Lee Hartwell
Chater for the 250 shares referred to in the declaration
of trust, which certificate was also handed to said Alfred
W. Carter.
"Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater was duly notified of
these transactions, the information coming through a
letter from Alfred S. Hartwell to Charles H. Chater on
March 29, 1909, as follows:

CHATER v. CARTER.
238 U. S.

Statement of the Case.
"HONOLULU,

T. H., March 29, 1909,

'"Mr. Charles H. Chater, South Natick, Mass.
"My

DEAR MR.

CHATER: I

have not been a good

Correspondent for I have had many cares and responsibilities resting upon me.
"I am simply writing to you now about a matter of
Lottie Lee's which I do not wish to write to her under
present conditions or to trouble her at all about it. It
is this-before her marriage I had given her 250 shares
of the Hawaiian Sugar Stock paying regularly a monthly
dividend of $75. Since a sale was made last summer
of my large holdings in the American Sugar Co. (Molokai
ranch) I have paid off the heavy indebtedness which
had been burdening me for several years and am now
dividing the shares in the Hawaiian Sugar stock which
formerly had been pledged for my indebtedness in such
way as to give Lottie Lee 585 shares more, which I am
placing with Alfred W. Carter in trust (as explained in
my letter to him). 'to cause the dividends to be paid to
her during the three years from January 1st next and
if she shall then be living to transfer the shares to her or
hold them in trust for her benefit as she may in writing
request, unless at the end of the three years she shall
have no child living, in which case the -trustee to hold
the stock paying her the dividends during her lifetime,
with power to change the investment and vary it at any
time at discretion and at her death to divide the trust
funds or securities equally among her sisters who shall
then be living, and if none shall then be living among
their children then living, my object being, as Mr Chater
will observe, that as to these additional 585 shares they
shall remain in my family.'
"'I have been in the habit of arranging with Charles
Brewer & Co. in Boston to collect my salary and pay
Lottie Lee $200 a month on my account; I .am now writing
them to send her $250 instead on April 15, May 15, and
VOL. ccxxxvin--37

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Cae.

238 U. S.

June 15. Alfred, as her trustee, will require receipts for
the dividends on the 585 shares which he holds in trust,
which will be $175.50 a month. I accordingly enclose
receipts for Lottie Lee to sign and send to him.
"I will also cause the Brewers to continue to send the
$75 a month for April, May and June dividends on the
250 shares, which I will collect here and have them pay
on my account. One reason why I do not arrange for
longer payment by them is that I am quite likely to go
east in June--I hope to do so-and to see you all-and
am aware of the uncertainties of life, you know. Alfred
will arrange after that to send a bill of exchange to Lottie
Lee monthly for the entire $250.50 coming to her, less
exchange, which will be a small sum if he arranges to
have the New York agents do this, which I think he will.
"It might also be well for Lottie Lee to give Alfred her
proxy as to the 250 shares which I am turning over to
him, a form for which I am enclosing herewith.
"I am making the same apportionment of my property
between Madeline, Lottie Lee, Juliette, Bernice and
Dorothy, future arrangements for the others to await
contingencies, and I am in my will giving my homestead
here to Juliette, Bernice and Dorothy, while there will
always be a home where any of their sisters and their
families will be welcome.
"I am much gratified to learn that you are going out
to South Natick. I shall hope to be able to go out there
this summer, in which case I may arrange to live in the old
cottage (Aunt Martha's house) where my childhood and
many of my later years were spent. I do not mean that
I am not well assured of a welcome from you and Lottie
Lee in the new Cottage, but by going into the old house
I shall feel free, as you can see, to get a friend or two out
there at any time when it will not interfere with Mabel
and her family going there. At any rate I have not been
there since my sister's death and that will be the place in

CHATER v. CARTER.
238 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

which I should like to stay, it now seems to me, when I am
east in the summers.
"You will know best whether to trouble Lottie Lee just
now to look this letter over. Do entirely as you think fit.
"Faithfully yours,

"(S'g'd)

ALFRED S. HARTWELL.

"Alfred W. Carter endorsed and deposited the dividend
warrants on said 585 shares for the months of April, May
and June, 1909, in the bank to the credit of Alfred S.
Hartwell, who subsequently paid the amounts of the
dividends over to Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater, who
thereafter sent to said Alfred W. Carter receipts for the
same, the receipt for the dividends for the month of
April reading as follows, the receipts for the months of
May and June being in the same form:
'BOSTON, MASS., April 15, 1909.
'Received of Alfred W. Carter, Trustee, per Charles
Brewer & Co., one hundred seventy-five and 50/100
($175.50) dollars, April dividends on 585 shares of Hawaiian Sugar Co. stock, held by him as my trustee.

'(Signed)

CHARLOTTE L. H. CHATER.'

"Alfred W. Carter endorsed and deposited in the bank
the dividend warrants on said shares for the months of
July and August, 1909, and sent the amounts of the said
dividends to Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater.
"Alfred W. Carter endorsed and delivered the dividend
warrants on said shares for September, 1909, and the
following months to A. S. Hartwell, until the transfer
of said shares to A. S. Hartwell.
"After the death of said Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater
the defendant Alfred W. Carter delivered to her said
administrator said certificate for 250 shares, but without
the knowledge or consent of the complainants, endorsed
as trustee for Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater, said certificate for 585 shares to said Alfred S. Hartwell, and a new
certificate was on November 29, 1909, issued to said

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

Alfred S. Hartwell in his own name by the defendant the
Hawaiian Sugar Company. On the 18th day, of May,
1910, gaid Alfred S. Hartwell transferred said certificate
for 585 shares to the defendant, Mabel R. Hartwell, and
the defendant Hawaiian Sugar Company issued a new
certificate on that date to said defendant, Mabel R.
Hartwell, in her name for 585 shares, she not knowing at
the time that the stock was the same stock which her
father had previously transferred to Alfred W. Carter,
Trustee for her sister, Charlotte Lee 'Hartwell Chater,
and having no knowledge of the terms of that trust but
receiving the same without consideration and as a gift
from her father and not on any secret trust or understanding.
"It is conceded, if admissible, that the said transfer of
said stock by Alfred W. Carter to Alfred S. Hartwell was
made by said Alfred W. Carterin-good faith and on demand of said Alfred S. Hartwell and under the advice of
counsel sought and received by said Alfred W. Carter, and
that the said transfer of said stock by Alfred S. Hartwell
to Mabel R. Hartwell was made by said Alfred S. Hartwell
in good faith and under the advice of counsel sought and
obtained by him after the demand for said stock made on
him by said Charles H. Chater.
"On the 1st day of July, 1910, the Hawaiian Sugar
Company declared a stock dividend of 50 per cent., paid
the said Mabel R. Hartwell $20 for a fractional one-half
share, and on July 2nd issued to the said Mabel R. Hart-well as said dividend 292 shares additional stock, which
Were included in a new certificate for 1552 shares in
Mabel R. Hartwell's name, which 1552 shares are still
standing in her name."
It was further stipulated that cash dividends were paid
as they accrued to A. W. Carter, Trustee, from September,
. 1909, to January, 1910, to Alfred S. Hartwell from that
date until May, 1910, and thereafter until the commence-

CHATER v. CARTER.
238 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

ment of the suit to Mabel R. Hartwell, subsequent diviidends having been retained by the company. The market
value of the stock is likewise stated, showing that the sum
in controversy exceeds the amount requisite for an appeal
to this court. The following also appears:
"The estate of said Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater is
not indebted to any one; the known heirs are the complainants, Charles H. Chater and Charles Hartwell
Chater; alid the-said Charles H. Chater consents that any
interest which he may have in said stock or said dividends
may be accounted for and paid to himself as guardian
for said Charles Hartwell Chater."
Mr. David L. Withington, with whom Mr. Joseph P.
Bell was on the brief, for appellants:
A present equitable title to the stock vested in Mrs.
Chater, which has never been divested.
An equitable title passed to Mrs. Chater, subject to the
trust.
The trust having expired by its own limitation, without
divesting the beneficiary of her title, the legal title followed
the equitable title to the beneficiary or her estate.
There is no resulting trust to the donor in the case of a
gift to a child.
There was a vested future interest to Mrs. Chater, which
did not lapse on her death. General rules of construction
favor a vested gift in this case. The law favors a vested,
rather than a contingent, interest. A gift of intervening
income is evidence of a vested gift of the principal. Failure of donor to provide a gift over is evidence that the
gift was not intended to be contingent. The fact that like
gifts made at the same time were treated by donor as
vested is evidence that Chater gift was vested. Language
in a trust is to be construed most strongly against the
donor, the party using same. The language of the transaction itself shows a vested gift. There is an implied gift to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

Charles Hartwell Chater on the death of his mother before
January 1, 1913. The exact language as to these dividends
is one of an absolute vested gift. The general rules of
construction favor a vested gift as to the dividends. The
law favors a vested, rather than a contingent, gift. Where
language sets out a completp gift the court will not override or cut it down unless the language contra is clear and
unequivocal. The construction of the particular clause
shows a vested gift. An annuity so passes. Gifts of income of real estate for years pass to the estate of the
beneficiary. An interest in life insurance policy issued for
the benefit of a person other than the insured, passes to the
beneficiary's estute.
The defendAnts Mabel R. Hartwell, Alfred W. Carter,
and Hawaiian Sugar Company are liable to the complainants.
Numerous authorities of this and other courts support
these contentions.
Mr. Robbins B. Anderson for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
We have here a trust declared in writing by the late
Judge Hartwell, of Hawaii, a man of ample means and of
long experience as a practicing lawyer and judge, the father
of seven daughters, four married, three unmarried, of
whom five were named and in some way provided for in
the trust instrument. The subject of the controversy is
585 shares of the stock of the Hawaiian Sugar Company,
for which a certificate accompanied the trust instrument,
the certificate being in the name of "Alfred W. Carter as
Trustee for Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater;" separate
certificates being at the same time issued and delivered to
.Mr. Carter as trustee for Juliette Hartwell and Dorothy

CUATER v. CARTER.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Hartwell, respectively, and a certificate for 250 shares-in
the name of Charlotte Lee Hartwell Chater being also
delivered to him.
The date of the trust instrument is March 27, 1909.
The particular clause out of which the controversy arises
reads as follows:
"The trust for Lottie Lee is to cause the dividends
to be paid to her during the three years from January 1st
next and if she shall then be living to transfer the shares
to her or hold them in trust for her benefit as she may in
writing request, unless at the end of the three years she
shall have no child living, in which case the trustee is to
hold the stock paying her the dividends during her lifetime, with power to change the investment and vary it
at any time at discretion and at her death to divide the
trust funds or securities equally among her sisters who
shall then be living, and if none shall then be living among
their children then living, my object being, as Mr. Chater
will observe, that as to these additional 585 shares they
shall remain in my family."
The substance of this was copied into Judge Hartwell's
explanatory letter to his son-in law, Mr. Chater, dated
two days after the trust instrument, and which all parties have treated as throwing a legitimate light upon
the meaning of that instrument.
The trust for Mrs. Chater was evidently created in
view of her approaching maternity, an event that occurred about four months before "January 1st, next,"
and was followed by her death on the 3d of September,
1909, leaving a son, who still survives. The question is,
Who is entitled to the shares of stock and to the dividends
accruing after January 1, 1910?
Appellants contend (1) that upon the establishment
of the trust accompanied by the delivery to the trustee
of the stock certificate naming her as beneficiary, an
equitable title passed to Mrs. Chater subject only to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

the trust, and that when the trust expired by its own
limitations the legal title followed the equitable title and
became vested in Mrs. Chater's estate; or (2) that there
was a vested future interest in Mrs. Chater, which did
not lapse upon her death; or (3) that even if the gift to
Mrs. Chater was not vested there was an implied gift to her
son upon her death prior to January 1, 1913. And, in any
event, it is contended (4) that the gift of the dividends to
Mrs. Chater for the period of three years from and after
January 1, 1910, was absolute and passed to her estate.
Appellees contend, on the other hand, that by the
terms and true meaning of the trust instrument there
was no present gift to the beneficiary, expressed or implied, creating any interest, legal or equitable, but only
a direction to the trustee to pay or transfer the subject
of the trust to the beneficiary at a future time upon express condition that she were then living; that her death
before the first of January, 1910, defeated the trust as
to the dividends as well as the principal; and that since
the trustee was thus left without directions or authority
to transfer the stock or the dividends to any beneficiary,
and could not hold them for himself, a resulting trust
arose in favor of the donor.
The declaration of trust is in the form of a letter, and
is clearly and simply phrased, without employment of
technical terms. In seeking its true construction, little
assistance can be had from technical rules. The guiding
principle must be, to seek the intention of the settlor.
We mean, of course, his intention as expressed. Not,
What did he intend to say? but, What did he intend by
what he did say? must be the test.
We cannot yield to the argument that because the
stock certificate .was caused to be issued in the name of
Mr. Carter as trustee for Mrs. Chater there was a present
transfer of the equitable title to her, subject only to the
terms of the declaration. The mention of her name in

CHATER v. CARTER.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the certificate had its proper purpose in earmarking the
stock and identifying the trust to which it pertained;
but the terms of that trust must be found in the accompanying letter.
In construing it, we are not called upon to strain the
meaning of words, as is sometimes done to avoid intestacy when wills are to be construed. Judge Hartwell
evidently contemplated that Mrs. Chater was to become a mother, and he makes the ultimate disposition
of the stock (if she survives) turn upon the question
whether she shall have a child or children living at the
end of the designated period of three years from January 1, 1910; yet he makes'no provision for the child in
the event of her death in the meantime. And even the
payment of dividends to Mrs. Chater is postponed until
January 1, 1910. We axe left without explanation of
this, unless it be attributable to a purpose that the inception of the trust should depend upon her surviving the
perils of childbirth. We must therefore reject the theory
that there was a vested future interest in Mrs. Chater
or an implied gift to her child in the event of her death
prior to January 1,1913. As to the dividends, the gift
of these must likewise be treated as contingent upon her
surviving to receive them; for it was not even a gift in
terms, but only a direction to pay them to her during the
three years from January 1, 1910.
The main purpose, as expressed, was to hold the principal fund until January 1, 1913, when, if Mrs. Chater
were living and had a living child or children, she should
decide for herself whether to take the fund into her own
hands or allow the trustee to continue to hold it for her
benefit; but if she had no child living, the trustee was
to hold the fund, giving her the income only, and at her
death. dividing the fund among her sisters, etc.,-"my
object being, as Mr. Chater will observe, that as to these
additional shares they shall remain in my family."

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

Mrs. Chater was the chief object of the bounty. What
she was to receive, and when she was to receive it, were
stated in plain terms. Beyond this, we think there are
none of the implications that are deemed to arise in cases
of wills.
But the event that happened-her death before January 1, 1910-although evidently in contemplation as a
possible event, was not provided for. What then happens?
The trust has failed; the trustee is functus officio; he cannot in equity retain the fund for himself; he must simply
redeliver it to him from whom it came. In other words,
there is a resulting trust for the donor.
The entire matter is so fully and satisfactorily discussed in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Hawaii
that we need not further elaborate it.
Decree affirmed.

BRAND v. UNION ELEVATED RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 268.

Argued May 6, 7, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

Nothing in the Federal Constitution gives any one the right to have
the jury instructed that he is entitled to damages for property taken,
where the instruction is not based on some evidence or entitles him
to damages without proof.

After an elevated railroad had been built in a street, the jury, in a suit
brought by an abutting owner, viewed the premises, and the only
testimony showed that the property was worth more after, than
before, the erection of the structure; held, that the owner was not
entitled to an instruction that the jury must exclude from their estimate of market value subsequent to the construction any enhancement from the facilities furnished to the property by the structure

