OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

238 U. S.

1; Chicago &c. Ry. v. Minneapolis, 232 U. S. 430, 438;
Atlantic Coast Line v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548, 560, 561.
And it is well settled that the enforcement of uncompensated obedience to a legitimate regulation established
under the police power is not a taking of property without
compensation, or without due process of law, in the sense
of the Fourteenth Amendment. Chicago, Burlington &c.
R. R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 255; New Orleans Gas Co.
v. Drainage Comm., 197 U. S. 453, 462; C., B. & Q. Ry. v.
DrainageCommissioners, 200 U. S. 561, 591.
(4) The contention that the statute in question denies
to plaintiff in error the equal protection of the laws is not
seriously pressed, and is quite unsubstantial. Railroad
embankments, stretching unbroken across tracts of land
that are liable to injury from surface waters, differ so
materially from other artificial constructions and improvements to which the doctrine of the "common enemy" applies, that there is very plainly a substantial ground for
classification with respect to the object of the legislation.
The statute applies alike to corporations, companies, and
persons owning or operating railroads that axe so constructed as to obstruct the flow of drainage and surface
waters, and we deem it unexceptionable in this regard.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. RABINOWICH.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No.. 748.

Argued April 7, l915.-Decided June 1, 1915.

A conspiracy, having for its object the commission of an offense denounced by the Bankruptcy Act, is not in itself an offense arising
under that act within the meaning of § 29a thereof, and the one
year period of limitation prescribed by that section, does not apply.

UNITED STATES v. RABINOWICH.
238 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

A conspiracy to commit a crime, as defined in and punished by § 37,
Criminal Code (§ 5440, Rev. Stat.) is a different offense from the
crime that is the object of the conspiracy.
Mere conspiracy, without an overt act done in pursuance of it, is not
criminally punishable under § 37, Criminal Code.
Quwre, whether the crime of concealing from thp trustee, property belonging to the bankrupt estate, as defined in § 29b (1) of the Bankrupt Act can be perpetrated by any one other than a bankrupt or
one who has received a discharge as such.
In construing the criminal statutes involved in this action, this court
attributes to Congress, in the absence of any inconsistent expression, a tacit purpose to maintain a long established and important
distinction between offenses essentially different.

THE facts, which involve the construction of § 29 b of

the Bankruptcy Act and §37 of the Criminal Code (§5440,
Rev. Stat.) in regard to conspiracies to commit crimes
against the United States, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney -General Warren for the United

States:
The context of § 29 of the Bankruptcy Act shows that
only the offenses enumerated therein are to be deemed
"offenses arising under" that act within the meaning of
subdivision d of § 29 of said act.
The offense of conspiracy, as defined by Rev. Stat.,
§ 5440 (§37, Penal Code), although the object of such
conspiracy be the commission of an offense defined and
made punishable by the Bankruptcy Act (30 Stat. 544,
554,) is not an "offense arising under" the Bankruptcy
Act, but a separate and distinct offense.
A person may be guilty of conspiring to commit an
offense against the United States although he could not
himself commit the objective offense.
The object of the conspiracy need not be consummated;
and in the case of a conspiracy to commit the offense of
concealing, while a bankrupt, property of the bankrupt
estate from the trustee, it is not necessary to aver or prove

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United States.

238 U. S.

either that bankruptcy proceedings were instituted or
that a trustee was actually appointed.
It is no objection that the conspiracy may be punished
more severely than the objective offense, for the offenses
are separate, and the evils to be guarded against are distinct.
The parties to the conspiracy may be prosecuted, even
though the objective offense at which the conspiracy aimed
shall have been accomplished. The liability for conspiracy is not taken away by its success.
The conspiracy is not merged where both the conspiracy and the offense which is its object are misdemeanors,
or where both are felonies.
Acquittal upon the charge of conspiracy to commit ar
offense against the United States does not bar a prosecution for the objective offense.
Upon the same principle an indictment which charge,
the defendants with conspiracy to commit two differeni
offenses is not duplicitous.
The decision of this case will affect not only prosecutions for conspiracy to commit an offense under the Bankruptcy Act, but also prosecutions for conspiracy to commit offenses under other acts containing special statutes
of limitations, applicable to offenses arising thereunder.
The existence of different periods of limitation for different offenses makes impossible the application of the
doctrine of the Samuels Case, the adoption of which would
create great confusion.
In support of these contentions, see In re Adame, .171
Fed. Rep. 599; Alkon v. United States, 163 Fed. Rep. 810;
Berkowitz v. United States, 93 Fed. Rep. 452; Clune v.
United States, 159 U. S. 590; Cohen v. United States, 157
Fed. Rep. 651; Gantt v. United States, 108 Fed. Rep. 61;
Greene v. United States, 154 Fed. Rep. 401; Heile v. United
States,, 227 U. S. 131; Houston v. United States, 217 Fed.
Rep. 852; Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S. 347; John

UNITED STATES v. RABINOWICH.
238 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Gund Co. v. United States, 206 Fed. Rep. 386; Kaufman
v: United States, 212 Fed. Rep. 613; Rabinowitz v. United
States, Mar. 9, 1915, unreported; Radin v. United States,
189 Fed. Rep. 568; Roukous v. United States, 195 Fed.
Rep. 353; Ryan v. United States, 216 Fed. Rep. 13; Thomas
v. United States, 156 Fed. Rep. 897; United States v.
Andem, 158 Fed. Rep. 996; United States v. Bayer, 24
Fed. Cas. 1046; United States v. Brace, 143 Fed. Rep. 703;
United States v. Burkett, 150 Fed. Rep. 208; United States
v. Cassidy, 67 Fed. Rep. 698; United States v. Cohn, 142
Fed. Rep. 983; United States v. Comstock, 162 Fed. Rep.
416; United States v. Cook, .17 Wall. 168; United States v.
Gordon, 42 Fed. Rep. 829; United States v. Hirsch, 100
U. S. 33; United States v. Holte, 236 U. S. 140; United
States v. Lyman, 190 Fed. Rep. 414; United States v.
Phillips, 196 Fed. Rep. 574; United States v. Richards, 149
Fed. Rep. 443; United States v. Samuels, 1914, Unreported; United States v. Sanche, 7 Fed. Rep. 715; United
States v. Scott, 139'Fed. Rep. 697; United States v. Stephenson, 215 U. S. 200; United States v. Thomas, 145 Fed. Rep.
74; Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425.
Mr. William R. Harr,with whom Mr. Charles H. Bates
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The decision of the District Court is in accord with the
purpose of Congress, as expressed in the Bankruptcy Act
itself, in respect to the period of limitation for the prosecution of offenses growing out of the passage of that act,
and a ruling to the contrary would defeat that purpose.
The manifest purpose of Congress in § 29d of the Bankruptcy Act was to cast into oblivion, after the lapse of one
year, all offenses having their source in that act. Hence
the broad language of § 29 d. United States v. Phillips,
196 Fed. Rep. 574; Warren v. United States, 199 Fed. Rep.
753; § 332, Crim. Code; Kaufman v. United States, 212
Fed. Rep. 613.
VOL. ccxkxviII---6

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

238 U. S.

A conspiracy to commit an offense against the United
States cannot arise unless there is a statute creating said
offense; hence it is that statute, rather than the conspiracy statute, which gives rise to the conspiracy offense.
The controlling fact is not, as the Government contends, that conspiracy to commit an offense against the
United States is separate and distinct from the offense
which is the object of the conspiracy. The question still
remains whether said conspiracy offense arises under the
Bankruptcy Act within the meaning of the special statute
of limitations contained therein.
The bar of the bankruptcy statute is not limited to offenses which are enumerated or fully defined in the Bankruptcy Act, but extends to all offenses arising under that
act.
The provisions of the Bankruptcy Act must be included
in the description of the conspiracy offense and hence
form a component part of said conspiracy offense.
An indictment for conspiracy to commit an offense denounced by the Bankruptcy Act must contain every allegation necessary to sustain an indictment for the commission of the substantive offense which is the object of
the conspiracy. United States v. Comotock, 162 Fed. Rep.
415.
The offense of conspiring to have a bankrupt fraudulently and knowingly conceal his property from the
trustee in bankruptcy not only arises under the Bankruptcy Act but is part and parcel of it, as fully as if expressly written therein.
Nothing would be added to the Bankruptcy Act now if
Congress should amend the act by making it an offense
for two or more persons to conspire to conceal the property
of the bankrupt from the trustee. That provision is already, hi effect, part and parcel of the bankruptcy law.
This is a case for the application of the principle that
where there is a general and a special statute dealing with

UNITED STATES v. RABINOWICH.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the same subject the special statute controls. Williams v.
United States, 168 U. S. 389; Phillips v. Grand Trunk
Western Ry., 236 U. S. 662.
United States v. Hirsch, 100'U. S. 33, relied on by the
plaintiff in error, was a case of conspiracy to defraud the
Government, and the hypothesis upon which that decision rests is not applicable to conspiracies to commit an
offense against the United States.
While there is some diversity of opinion among the
lower Federal courts, the best reasoned cases hold that
the special statute of limitations contained in the Bankruptcy Act applies to the offense of conspiring to violate
the provisions of that statute. United States v. Samue7R.
000 Fed. Rep. 000; United States v. Comstock, 162 Fed.
Rep. 416; United States v. Hirsch, 100 U. S. 33.
The decision of the District Court tends to produce
greater uniformity in the administration of the criminal
laws.
It is clearly more in accord with the impartial administration of justice to hold that a conspiracy to commit an
offense-which means simply an agreement to commit
some specific act which the law does not wish done--shall
be barred from prosecution when the act itself, if committed, is barred. United States v. Irvine, 98 U. S. 450;
United States v. Kissell, 218 U. S. 607; Heike v. United
States, 227 U. S. 144; Brown v. Elliott, 225 U. S. 404, distinguished.
MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error, taken under the criminal appeals
act of March 2, 1907 (c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246), to review a
judgment of the District Court sustaining, on demurrer,
a special plea in bar to an indictment for conspiracy found
June 24, 1912, and based upon § 37 of the Criminal Code
of March 4, 1909 (c. 321, 35 Stat. 1088, 1096), formerly

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

§ 5440, Rev. Stat.

The. indictment embraces six individuals, including defendant in error, and contains two
counts, of which the first recites that three of the defendants, K., R., and F., were doing business as co-partners,
and had on hand a large quantity of goods; that they and
the other named defendants contemplated and planned
that the co-partners should commit an act of bankruptcy,
an involuntary petition in bankruptcy should be filed
against them, they should be adjudged bankrupts, and
thereafter a trustee in bankruptcy should be appointed;
and avers that, under these circumstances, the defendants
named, including K., R., and F., conspired and agreed
together that K., R., and F. should conceal, while bankrupts, from the trustee of the estate in bankruptcy, certain
specified property belonging to said estate in bankruptcy.
Overt acts are alleged. The secoad count differs in its
recitals, but does not differ in any respect now material
in setting forth the conspiracy. In each count the conspiracy and overt acts are stated to have taken place in
March and April, 1911, more than a year before the finding
of the indictment. 'Neither count avers a continuing conspiracy. The plea sets up the alleged bar of the statute of
limitations contained in § 29 d of the Bankruptcy Act
(c. 541, 30 Stat. 554), in that the indictment was not found
within one year after the commission of the alleged offenses. The District Court held, upon a construction of
the applicable statutes, that the prosecution upon the
charges contained in the indictment was limited by the
section thus invoked, and not by § 1044, Rev. Stat.
The pertinent statutory provisions are set-forth in the
margin.' Section 1044, which of course antedated the
I Section 37 of the Criminal Code is as follows:
SEc. 37. If two or more persons conspire either to commit any of.

fense against the United States, or to defraud the United States in any
manner or for any purpose, and one or more of such parties do any act
to effect the object of the conspiracy, each of the parties to such con-

UNITED STATES v. RABINOWICH.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Bankruptcy Act, declares that no person shall be prosecuted for any offense (with exceptions not now material),
unless the indictment is found or information instituted
within three years next after such offense shall have been
committed; while § 29 d of the Bankruptcy Act limits
to one year the prosecution "for any offense arising under
this Act." The narrow question presented is, whether
a conspiracy having for its object the commission of an
offense denounced as criminal by the Bankruptcy Act
is in itself an offense "arising under" that Act, within the
meaning of § 29 d.
It is apparent from a reading of § 37, Crim. Code (§ 5440,
Rev. Stat.), and has been repeatedly declared in decisions
of this court, that a conspiracy to commit a crime is a
different offense from the crime that is the object of the
conspiracy. Callan v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540, 555; Clune
v. United States, 159 U. S. 590, 595; Williamson v. United
States, 207 U. S. 425, 447; United States v. Stevenson
spiracy shall be fined not more than ten thousand dollars, or imprisoned
not more than two years, or both.
Section 29 of the Bankruptcy Act, so far as material, is as follows:
b A person shall be punished, by imprisonment for a period not to
exceed two years, upon conviction of the offense of having knowingly
and fraudulently (1) concealed while a bankrupt, or after his discharge,
from his trustee any of the property belonging to his estate in bankruptcy;
d A person shall not be prosecuted for any offense arising under this
Act unless the indictment is found or the information is filed in court
within one year after the commission of the offense.
Section 1044 of the Revised Statutes as amended April 13, 1876, is
as follows:
No person shall be prosecuted, tried, or punished for any offense, not
capital, except as provided in section one thousand and forty-six, [referring to the revenue laws] unless the indictment is found, or the information is instituted within three years next after such offense shall
have been committed. But this act shall not have effect to authorize
the prosecution, trial or punishment for any offense, barred by the
provisions of existing laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S..

(No. 2), 215 U. S. 200, 203. And see Burton v. United
States, 202 U. S. 344, 377; Morgan v. Devine, 237 U. S.
632. The conspiracy, however fully formed, may fail
of its object, however earnestly pursued; the contemplated crime may never be consummated; yet the
conspiracy is none the less punishable. Williamson v.
United States, supra. And it is punishable as conspiracy,
though the intended crime be accomplished. Heike v.
United States, 227 U. S. 131, 144.
Nor do we forget that a mere conspiracy; without overt
act done in pursuance of it, is not criminally punishable
under § 37, Crim. Code. United States v. Hirsch, 100 U. S.
33, 34; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62, 76; Hyde v. United
States, 225 U. S. 347, 359. There must be an overt act;
but this need not be of itself a criminal act; still less need
it constitute the very crime that is the object of the conspiracy. United States v. Holte, 236 U. S. 140, 144; Joplin
Mercantile Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 531, 535, 536.
Nor need it appear that all the conspirators joined in the
overt act. Bannon v. United States, 156 U. S. 464, 468.
A person may be gtilty of conspiring although incapable
of committing the objective offense. Williamson v.
United States, supra; United States v. Holte, supra. And a
single conspiracy might have for its object the violation
of two or more of the criminal laws, the substantive offenses having perhaps different periods of limitation.
(See Joplin Mercantile Co. v. United States, 236 U. S.
531, 547, 548, for an instance of a conspiracy with manifold
objects.)
.It is at least doubtful whether the crime of concealing property belonging to the bankrupt estate from
the trustee, as defined in § 29 b (1) of the Bankruptcy
Act, can be perpetrated by any other than a bankrupt
or one who has received a discharge as such. Counsel
for defendant in error refers to § 1, subdivision 19, of the
Act, which gives the following definition: "(19). 'Persons'

UNITED STATES v. RABINOWICH.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shall include corporations, except where otherwise specified, and officers, partnerships, and women, and when used
with reference to the commission of acts which are herein
forbidden shall include persons who are participants in the
forbidden acts, and the agents, officers, and members
of the board of directors or trustees, or other similar controlling bodies of corporations." But the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit has held that this does
not broaden the interpretation of § 29 b (1) and that present or past bankruptcy is an attribute of every person
who may commit the offense therein denounced. Field
v. United States, 137 Fed. Rep. 6. And see Kaufman v.
United States, 212 Fed. Rep. 613, 617.
But, if there be doubt about this, we are not now called
upon to solve it. For, as appears from what has been said,
the defendants here accused include six individuals, only
three of whom (not including defendant in error) were the
owners of the property that was to be unlawfully concealed; and the conspiracy, as alleged in each count, was
that these three, and they only, should, while bankrupt,
conceal the property. Of course, an averment that the
others were parties to the conspiracy is by no means equivalent to an averment that they were to participate in the
substantive offense. And so -we have the typical case
of a conspiracy that is in every way distinct from the
contemplated crime that formed its object.
•Defendant in error, while conceding, for the purposes of
the argument, that the conspiracy and the substantive
offense are separate and distinct, insists that the question
still remains whether such a conspiracy offense as is here
charged "arises under" the Bankruptcy Act, within the
meaning of the special statute of limitations contained
therein. The argument is that this bar is not by its
terms limited to offenses enumerated or fully defined in
the Act, but extends to all offenses "arising under" it;
that without a law creating the substantive offense of

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

"concealing," etc., a conspiracy to do the acts contemplated by the present defendants would not be a crime;
and hence, that it is this law, rather than the conspiracy
statute, which "gives rise" to the conspiracy offense.
The argument is ingeniously elaborated, but it has not
convinced us. We deem it more reasonable to interpret
"any offense arising under this Act" as limited to offenses
created and defined by the same enactment. In reaching
this conclusion, we have not merely had regard to the
proximity of the clause to the context, but have attributed
to Congress a tacit purpose-in the absence of any inconsistent expression-to maintain a long-established
distinction between offenses essentially different; a distinction whose practical importance in the criminal
law is not easily overestimated.
We cannot agree that there is anything unreasonable,
or inconsistent with the general policy of the Bankruptcy
Act, in allowing a longer period for the prosecution of a
conspiracy to violate one of its penal clauses than for the
violation itself. For two or more to confederate and
combine together t6 commit or cause to be committed a
breach of the criminal laws, is an offense of the gravest
character, sometimes quite outweighing, in injury to the
public, the mere commission of the contemplated crime.
It involves deliberate plotting to subvert the laws, educating anid preparing the conspirators for further and habitual criminal practices. And it is characterized by secrecy,
rendering it difficult of detection, requiring more time for
its discovery, and adding to the importance of punishing
it when discovered.
United States v. Hirsch, 100 U. S. 33, 34, 35, is in
principle quite like the case at bar. There the indictment contained four counts, of which the first and
second, drawn under § 5440, Rev. Stat., charged a conspiracy to defraud the United States out of the duties.
on certain merchandise theretofore imported and there-

UNITED STATES v. RABINOWICH.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

after to be imported. The other counts were drawn
under § 5445, and charged the entry of goods at
the custom house by fraudulent invoice and false classification. The question was as to the validity of a plea
that the offenses charged had been committed more
than three years before the finding of the indictment,
and this turned upon whether § 1044 applied, or § 1046,
which prescribed a limitation of five years for a prosecution "for any crime arising under the revenue laws." This
court held that with respect to the first two counts the
three-year limitation prescribed by § 1044 was applicable,
saying: "Specific acts which are violations of the laws
made to protect the revenue may be said to be crimes
arising under the revenue laws, as are those in the third
and fourth counts; but a conspiracy to defraud the Government, though it may be directed to the revenue as its
object, is punishable by the general law against all conspiracies, and can hardly be said, in any just ° sense, to
arise under the revenue laws." This was said in spite of
the fact, pointed out in the opinion, that § 5440 was originally § 30 of the act of March 2, 1867 (c. 169, 14 Stat.
471, 484), which was a revenue law..
It is not necessary to extend the discussion. In our
opinion, a conspiracy to commit an offense made criminal
by the Bankruptcy Act is not of itself an offense "arising
under" that Act within the meaning of § 29 d, and hence
the prosecution is not limited by that section.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
MR. JusTIcE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
--

