PENNA. R. R. v. MITCHELL COAL CO.
238 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

endeavoring to couple or uncouple the car or to handle it
in any way but was riding on the colliding engine; was not
in a situation where the absence of the prescribed coupler
and drawbar operated as a breach of a duty imposed for
his benefit, and that the Supreme Court of the State erred
in concluding-that the Safety Appliance Acts required it
to hold otherwise.
Judgment reversed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MITCHELL COAL & COKE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 287. Argued May 14, 1915.-Decided June 14, 1915.
There being nothing in the record to show that any of the shipments

involved in this case, in which the state court gave a judgment
against the carrier for damages for discrimination in secret allowance of rebates to other shippers of like goods under the state law,
were interstate shipments, and the court having found that all the
shipments were intrastate, the judgment is affirmed.
241 Pa. St. 536, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment
recovered in the state court by a shipper of coal for damages sustained through unlawful discrimination by the
carrier in allowing and paying rebates to other shippers,
are stated-in the opinion.

Mr. Francis I. Gowen, with whom Mr. F. D. McKenney
and Mr. John G. Johnson were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:
The judgment below should be reversed. See Louisiana
R. R. Comm. v. Tex. & Pac. Ry., 229 U. S. 336; Mitchell

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

Coal Co. v. Penna. R. R., 230 U. S. 247; Ohio R. R. Comm.
v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101; Penna. R. R. v. International
Coal Co., 230 U. S. 184; Tex. & N. 0. R. R. v. Sabine Tram
Co., 227 U. S. 111; Union Stockyards Case, 226 U. S. 286.
Mr. Joseph Gilfilan, with whom Mr. George S. Graham
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR,

JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion

of the court.
This writ of error brings under review a judgment recovered by a shipper of coal for damages sustained through
unlawful discrimination consisting in the secret allowance
and payment of rebates to other shippers for whom the
carrier was rendering a like and contemporaneous service.
241 Pa. St. 536. The action was brought and the judgment rendered under the law of the State and the complaint now made is that damages were awarded in respect
of several shipments which were not intrastate but destined to points outside the State and as to which no recovery eould be had in this action consistently with the
Interstate Commerce Act. See Mitchell Coal and Coke Co.
v. Pennsylvania R. R., 230 U. S. 247. The plaintiff's
statement of claim described the shipments as intrastate,
that is, as made from oe point to another in the State,
and up to ,the time that the referee came to compute the
damages it does not appear to have been questioned that
all the shipments were of that class. A stipulation was
then entered into specifying the number of tons snipped
by the plaintiff during each of several periods and describing the shipments as made from the plaintiff's mines
in Pennsylvania "to points within the State," but appended to the stipulation was a n6te wherein the defendant
insisted that according to the evidence part of the shipments-those to Greenwich, Pennsylvania, "included coal

PENNA. R. R. v. MITCHELL COAL CO.

238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

destined to points beyond the State" and that no recovery
could be had in this action in respect of interstate shipments, and also a note on the part of the plaintiff controverting what was asserted in the defendant's note.
The referee concluded that the shipments were all intrastate, and, while recognizing that some of the coal "might
have been" re-shipped from Greenwich to places outside
the State, said: "The plaintiff might have sold the coal
at that place. To have moved the coal from Greenwich a
new contract for carriage would have been necessary."
The referee's conclusion was sustained by the trial court
and by the Supreme Court of the State, the latter saying:
"The shipments to Greenwich, Philadelphia, were intrastate, and hence were properly included in this action.
They were consigned to plaintiff at Greenwich and there
the contract of carriage between the plaintiff and the
defendant was fully performed and ended. What disposition the plaintiff made of the shipments at Greenwich,
whether it sold them or sent them within or beyond the
State is immaterial as affecting the question whether as between the plaintiff and the defendant they were intrastate
or interstate."
We find nothing in the record to sustain the contention
that some of the shipments were interstate. While it
appears that part of the coal was shipped from the mines
to Gleenwich, that the plaintiff there turned some of it
over to other coal dealers, sold some of it outright and
possibly re-shipped some to other places, it does not appear
that any of it went out of the State, or, if it diW, that the
circumstances were such that its carriage from the mines
to Greenwich was in fact but part of an intended and connected transportation beyond the State. See Gulf, Col. &
Santa Fe Ry. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403; Ohio R. R. Commission
v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101; Texas & New Orleans1 R.
v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111; Louisiana R. R. Commission v. Tex. & Pac. Ry., 229 U. S. 336. The record

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

does not purport to contain all the evidence bearing upon
this point, but it does show that in some of the exhibits
the shipments included in the recovery were all listed and
designated as "Coal-Intrastate." In this situation the

conclusion reached by the state courts cannot be disturbed.
Judgment affirmed.

GENEVA FURNITURE MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. S. KARPEN & BROS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 496.

Submitted December 17, 1914.-Decided June 14, 1915.

Where the plaintiff really makes a substantial claim, under an Act of
Congress, the District Court has jurisdiction whether the claim ultiinately be held good or bad. The Fairv. Kohler Die Co., 222 U. S. 22.
Jurisdiction is the power to consider and decide one way or the other
as the law may require; it is not to be declined because it is not foreseen with certainty that the party invoking it may succeed.

Where a bill includes several causes of action, some arising under the
patent laws and others on breach of"contractual relations, and one
of the defendants is a corporation that cannot be sued in the district
without its consent, save in cases arising under the patent laws, the
rule in equity respecting joinder of causes of action yields to the
jurisdictional statute and, if the designated defendant objects to the
jurisdiction, the bill must be dismissed, so far as that defendant is
concerned, as to the causes of action not arising under the patent
laws.
Whether in such a case all the causes of action may be maintained in a
single bill as against the other defendants is a question".of general
equity jurisdiction and practice and is not open to consideration on
direct appeal to this court under ยง 238, Judicial Code. Bogart v.
Southern Pacific Co., 228 U. S. 137.

