OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

393

Syllabus.

"the beating and wounding" there charged took place
on the "highway" remote from the precinct. That form
of intimidation and violence was in express terms dealt
with in § 5508 and in none of the repealed sections.
Rev. Stat., § 5508, has been in force for 45 years. During
those 45 years no prosecution has ever been instituted
under it against a state election officer. That non-action
but confirms the correctness of the construction that it was
never intended to apply to offenses by state election
officers. On the general subject see James v. Bogwman, 190
U. S. 127; Giles v. Teasley, 193 U. S. 149; Hodges v. United
States, 203 U. S. 1; Green v. Mills, 69 Fed. Rep. 863;
United States v. Harris, 106 U. S. 629; United States v.
Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 558; Swafford v. Templeton, 185
U. S. 487; In re Coy, 127 U. S. 731; Wiley v. Sinkler, 179
U. S. 58, 66, 67; Karem v. United States, 121 Fed. Rep.
250, 258 (2), 259; Seeley v. Knox, 2 Woods (C. C.), 368:
United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; Holt v. Indiana, 176
U. S. 68, 72, 73; Wadleigh v. New Hall, 136 Fed, Rep. 941;
Baldwin v. Franks, 120 U. S. 690; United States v. Waddell,
112 U. S. 76.

OREGON & CALIFORNIA RAILROAD COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 679. Argued April 23, 26, 27, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.
Where there are doubts whether a clause be a covenant or condition
courts will incline against the latter; and as a general principle a
court of equity is reluctant to lend its aid to enforce a forfeiture.
The provisos in the Land Grant Act of July 25, 1866, as amended
June 25, 1868, and April 10, 1869, and in the Act of May' 4, 1870,
to the effect that the lands granted must be sold by railroad corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

panies only to actual settlers in quantities not exceeding 160 acres
to each and at a price not exceeding two dollars and fifty cents per
acre, are not conditions subsequent, the violation of which result
in forfeiture of the grants, but are covenants which are enforceable.
This suit, under such circumstances, becomes one to enforce the
covenants and not to annul the patents.
The fact that the actions of the railroad companies in connection with
the lands granted were known to the government officials and that
no action was taken by the Government in regard thereto does not
amount to an estoppel against the Government so that it cannot
now enforce the covenants.
Acts of Congress granting lands are laws as well as grants and are
operative until repealed; the fact that the conditions imposed in the
grant were not applicable to the character of the lands furnishes no
excuse for antagonistic action, even though it might justify nonaction pending further legislation.
The delay in the assertion of a right is not conclusive against its existence, although there may be argument in it.
Under the acts involved there was a complete grant to the railroad
company with power to sell limited only as prescribed, and cross complainants and intervenors who have set up alleged rights in the
lands by reason of settlement thereon cannot sustain their claims
thereto. Nor can there be an absolute right to purchase and settle
on lands where there is no compulsion to sell.
The words "actual settlers" indicate no particular individuals; and
the uncertainty of the expression prevents any individual from being
a cestui que trust to enforce the condition of the statute.
In construing land grant statutes the courts cannot, even at the instance of the Government, give a greater sanction to them than Congress intended; nor can the courts give to any parties rights which
the statutes did not confer upon them.
As the conditions contained in the grant are enforceable, the railroad
company is enjoined from further violating them, but as conditions
have changed since the grant was -made, the company is further
enjoined from making any disposition of the land or cutting or removing the timber thereon until Congress shall have a reasonable
opportunity to provide for their disposition by legislation, and in
case after six months Congress shall not have acted, the company
may apply to the District Court for a modification of the decree.

THIS writ brings up for review a decision of the United
States District Court for the District of Oregon decreeing

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

395

Statement of the Case.

the forfeiture of the unsold portion of certain lands
granted by Congress to certain railroad corpanies and
quieting the title of the United States thereto.
In consequence of a memorial presented to it, Congress,
on April 30, 1908, adopted a joint resolution which authorized-and directed the Attorney General of the United
States to institute and prosecute any and all suits in
equity, actions at law, or other proceedings, to enforce
any rights or remedies of the United States arising and
growing out of either of the following acts of Congress,
to-wit: "An act granting lands to aid in the construction
of a railroad and telegraph line from the Central Pacific
Railroad in California, to Portland, in Oregon," approved
July 25, 1866, c. 242, 14 Stat. 239, as amended by the
acts approved June 25, 1868, c. 80, 15 Stat. 80, and
April 10, 1869, c. 27, 16 Stat. 47, and "An act granting
lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph
line from Portland to Astoria and McMinnville, in the
State of Oregon," approved May 4, 1870, c. 69, 16 Stat. 94.
The Attorney General was empowered to assert all
rights and remedies existing in favor of the United States,
including the claim on behalf of the United States that
the lands granted by such acts, or any part of the lands,
have been or are forfeited to the United States by reason
of any breaches or violations of the terms or conditions
of.either of such acts which may be alleged or established
in such suits, actions or proceedings.
The resolution declared that it was not intended to
determine the right of the United States to any such
forfeiture or forfeitures, but to fully authorize the. Attorney General to assert on behalf of the United States,
and the court or courts before which such suits, actions
or proceedings might be instituted or pending to entertain, consider and adjudicate, the claim and right of the
United States to such forfeiture or forfeitures, and, if
found, to enforce the same. Res. 18, 35 Stat. 571.

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

Being so authorized, the United States brought this
suit as complainant against the Oregon & California
Railroad Company, the Southern Pacific Company,
Stephen T. Gage (individually and as trustee), the Union
Trust Compnay (individually and as trustee), John L.
Snyder, and certain others as defendants, to declare
forfeited to the United States lands of the Oregon &
California Railroad Company aggregating 2,300,000
acres which inured to the predecessors in interest of the
company under the acts of Congress referred to in the
resdlution.
The bill set forth the acts of Congress and alleged that
it was expressed that neither the amendatory act of
April 10, 1869, nor the act of 1866 should be construed
to entitle more than one company to the grant of land,
and that following such provision which was in the act of
1869 there was this proviso: "And provided further,
That the lands granted by the act aforesaid [act of 1866]
shall be sold to actual settlers only, in quantities not
greater than one quarter section to one purchaser, and
for a price not exceeding two dollars and fifty cents per
acre."
That the act of May 4, 1870, also contained the provision (§ 4) that the lands granted thereby, excepting only
such as were necessary for' depots and other needful uses
in operating the road, should "be sold by the company
only to actual settlers, in quantities. not exceeding one
hundred and sixty acres or a quarter section to any one
settler, and at prices not exceeding two dollars and fifty
cents per acre."
The bill also detailed the organization of companies
and the steps taken by them to avail. themselves of the
grants and accomplish the purpose for which they were
made; the steps and proceedings in the construction of
the roads contemplated; the issue of patents for the lands
granted; the amount of land sold and unsold, and wherein

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

397

Statement of the Case.

and by what acts there had been breaches of the provisions of the acts above set forth, which were alleged to have
been conditions subsequent, and that by such breaches the
grants had become forfeited. The bill likewise detailed
the various steps and the proceedings whereby the Oregon
& California Railroad Company became the owner of
the grants, the 9onnection of the defendants, Southern
Pacific Company, Gage and the Union Trust Company
therewith, and the rights they asserted therein.
It was alleged that each of the other defendants (other
than the railroad company, the Southern Pacific Company, Gage and the Union Trust Company) asserted
an interest in the lands, created, as they alleged, by actual
settlement in good faith upon certain of the unsold lands,
not exceeding one quarter section, with intention of
making a permanent home thereof, and had applied to
the railroad company to purchase the same; that the
said defendants had instituted suits against the railroad
company, Gage and the Union Trust Company to compel
a sale and conveyance of the lands to them; that unless
enjoined they would prosecute their suits to final judgments, and that they were hence made parties to this
suit in order that they might be so enjoined, and, if the
court so order be permitted to set forth their respective
claims for adjudication.
The bill prayed a forfeiture of the unsold lands and
that the title of the Government thereto be quieted, or,
if such relief be denied, that the lands be adjudged subject to purchase by actual settlers in quantities not exceeding 160 acres to any one purchaser and at a price
not exceeding $2.50 per acre; that a receiver be appointed
to sell the lands and account for the proceeds "as the
court shall direct."
If such relief be denied, that a mandatory injunction
issue requiring the railroad company to offer for sale
and to sell the lands as required by the grants. And the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

bill also prayed that all of the defendants be enjoined
from asserting any right, title or interest in and to the
lands or committing waste thereon and for an accounting
of all moneys received from the sale of lands or timber.
The persons who asserted interests acquired by actual
settlement were made parties to this suit and the causes
consolidated, and Snyder and others filed cross complaints
herein setting up their alleged rights. And there were
about 6,000 other persons who by the court were permitted as interveners to present their claims for consideration and adjudication. They are represented in the record
by the petition and papers of B. W. Nunnally and
others.
The cross complainants alleged that they were actual
settlers upon the lands granted by the act of May 4, 1870'
long prior to the institution of any suit or the assertion
of any claim of forfeiture by the Government; and the
petitions in intervention averred that the petitioners
were applicants to purchase lands granted by that act
or the act of July 25, 1866; and both cross complaints
and petitions respectively alleged in substance that the
lands were granted in trust to the respective grantee
companies for actual settlers or those who should become
such, and alleged respectively tender of' the purchase
price, demand for conveyances and the refusal of the
railroad company to accept the tender or make the conveyances. And both cross complainants and interveners
asserted a prior right to the extent of the land demanded
by them, respectively; denied that the grants had become forfeited, and resisted the relief prayed by the
Government. They adopted in all other particulars the
allegations of the bill and relied upon them as the basis
of their respective claims; prayed that the railroad company be decreed to hold in trust the legal title to the land
respectively claimed by them, that their several rights
be established and enforced, and that the railroad com-

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

399

Statement of the Case.

pany be directed to convey to each of them the tract of
land applied for by each, and for general relief.
Demurrers were sustained to the cross complaints and
to the petitions in intervention. Demurrers to the bill
were overruled. 186 Fed. Rep. 861. Joint and several
answers were then filed by the railroad company, the
Southern Pacific Company and Gage. The Union Trust
Company answered separately. These companies when
referred to collectively will be called defendants.
The answers admitted most of the allegations of the
bill and denied others; alleged facts in resistance to the
construction of the+Government of the acts of Congress
and to the relief prayed, justified the alleged breaches
of the conditions or covenants of the grants, and set up
laches, waiver of the breaches, and statutes of limitation.
A great deal of testimony was taken, but the case was
practically submitted and a decree entered upon a stipulation of facts made by the Government and defendants.
It of itself is quite voluminous, but we deem only certain
of its facts material.
By the act of July 25, 1866, supra (c. 242, 14 Stat. 239),
Congress authorized and empowered the California &
Oregon Railroad Company, which had been organized
under a statute of the State of California, and such company, organized under the laws of Oregon, as the legislature of that State should designate, to construct and
maintain a railroad and telegraph line between the city
of Portland, in Oregon, and the Central Pacific Railroad
in California, as follows: The California & Oregon Company to construct that part of the railroad and telegraph
line within the State of California, beginning at a point
to be selected by the company on the Central Pacific
Railroad in Sacramento Valley, and" running thence
northerly through the Sacramento and Shasta valleys to
the northern boundary of the State. The Oregon company to construct the part in Oregon from Portland south

OQTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

through certain designated valleys to the southern boundary of Oregon to connect with the part constructed by
the first-named company. Whichever company first
completed its respective part of the road from the designated terminus to the boundary line between the States
was authorized to continue construction until the parts
should meet and connect, and the whole line of railroad
and telegraph should be completed.
Section 2 of the act granted to the companies, their
successors and assigns, "for the purpose of aiding in the
construction of said railroad and telegraph line, and to
secure the safe and speedy transportation of the mails,
troops, munitions of war, and public stores over the line
of said railroad, every alternate section, of public land,
not mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the amount
of twenty alternate sections per mile (ten on each side)
of said railroad line."
In case of deficiency in the original sections granted
other lands might be selected in lieu thereof. Upon the
filing of the survey of the railroad the lands granted
were to be withdrawn from public sale so far as located
within the limits designated. And it was provided that
the lands granted should be applied to the building of
the said road within the States, respectively, wherein
they were situated; and that the lands reserved by the
Government should not be sold except at double the
minimum price of public lands, with provisions for sale
to actual settlers under the preemption and the homestead laws.
Section 3 granted to the companies the right of way
through the public lands "for the construction of said
railroad and telegraph line" 100 feet in width on each
side of the road, including grounds for stations, etc., and
the right to take from the public lands materials for the
construction of the road.
Section 4 provided that when 20 or more consecutive

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

401

Statement of the Case.

miles of any portion of the railroad and telegraph line
should be ready for the service contemplated, commissioners should be appointed by the President to examine
the same, and if it should appear that 20 miles had been
completed and equipped in all respects as required by.
the act, and the commissioners should so report under
oath to the President of the United States, patents should
issue to the companies or either of them, as the case might
be, to the extent of the completed section, and successively
as 20 or more miles should be constructed, until the entire
railroad and telegraph line authorized by the act should
be constructed, and patents to the lands granted should
be issued.
Section 5 expressed that the grants were made upon the
condition that the companies should keep the railroad and
telegraph in repair and use and transport the mails and
dispatches for the Government when required to do so by
any Department thereof; that the Government should
have the preference in the use of the railroad and telegraph
at reasonable rates not exceeding those paid by private
parties, and that the road should remain a public highway
for the use of the Government, free of toll or other charges
upon the transportation of the property or troops of the
United States, and at the cost and charge of the corporation or companies.
Section 6 required assent to the act to be filed in the
Department of the Interior within one year after the
passage of the act, and that the first section of 20 miles
should be completed within two years and 20 miles in
each year thereafter, and the whole on or before July 1,
1875; and the road to be of the same gauge as the Central
Pacific Railroad of California and be connected therewith.
Section 7 required the roads to be operated and used
as one connected and continuous line and afford to the
Government and the public equal advantages and facilities
as to rates, time and transportation.
VOL. ccxxxvui-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

Section 8 provided that for failure to file assent to the
act or to complete the road as required the act should be
null and void, "and all the lands not conveyed by patent
to said company or companies, as the case may be, at the
date of such failure, shall revert to the United States."
And it was provided if the road and telegraph should not
be kept in repair and fit for use the United States might
put the same in repair and use and might devote the income of the road and telegraph line to repay all expenditure caused by the default of the companies or either of
them,' or might fix pecuniary responsibility not exceeding
the value of the lands granted.
Section 9 provided that wherever the word "company"
or "companies" was used in the act it should be construed
to embrace the words "their associates, successors and
assigns" the same as if the words had been inserted or
thereto annexed.
Sections 10 and 11 are not material to be quoted. And
§ 12 provided that Congress might, at any time, having
due regard for the right of the companies, "add to, alter,
amend or repeal" the act.
To avail of the grant, the Oregon Central Railroad Company was incorporated October 6, 1866. It projected its
road from Portland to Forest Grove, thence southerly
on the westerly side of the Willamette River and became
known as the "West Side Company" and its railroad line
as the "West Side Line."
The legislature of Oregon, by joint resolution adopted
October 10, 1866, designated the Oregon Central as the
road to receive the land grant. (There were certain steps
in the organization of the Company not important.)
The assent of the company to the act of 1866 was filed
in the office of the Secretary of the Interior and subsequently (August 20, 1868) a map of survey of its projected
line.

April 22, 1867, certain persons, contending that the

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

403

Statement of tire Case.

West Side Company had not been lawfully incorporated
or organized, and designing to secure the grants and other
benefits under the act of 1866, caused proceedings to be
taken, intending to organize under the general laws of
Oregon the Oregon Central Railroad Company of Salem,
and so named in its articles of incorporation. It projected
its line of railroad on the easterly side of the Willamette
River and became known as the "East Side Company"
and its railroad line as the "East Side Line."
In furtherance of its design it procured from the legislature of Oregon on October 20, 1868, the adoption of a joint
resolution which declared that the West Side Company
was not properly incorporated and was incapable of receiving the grant, and designated the Oregon Central
Railroad Company organized at Salem on April 22, 1867,
0(as the company entitled to receive the. lands in Oregon,
and the benefits and privileges conferred by the said act
of Congress." Oregon Session Laws, 1868.
Controversy arose between the companies as to which
was entitled to the benefits of the act of 1866, which controversy continued until about January, 1870.
The controversy was carried to Congress and on
April 10, 1869, Congress passed an act which amended
§ 6 of the act of 1866 so as to allow any railroad company
theretofore designated by the legislature of Oregon to
file its assent to the act of 1866 within one year from the
date of the amending act and providing that nothing
therein contained should impair any rights theretofore
acquired by any railroad company; but declaring that
neither the act of 1866 nor the amending act should be
construed to entitle more than one company to a grant of
land. "And providedfurther, That the lands granted by the
act aforesaid [act of 1866] shall be sold to actual settlers only,
in quantities not greater than one quarter section to one purchaser, and for a price not exceeding two dollars and fifty
cents per acre."

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

On June 8, 1869, the East Side Company adopted a
resolution which recited the act of July, 1866, its designation by the legislature of Oregon as the company to receive
the grant, the passage of the act of April 10, 1869, and concluded as follows: "This company, the Oregon Central
Railroad of Salem, Oregon,

.

. . do hereby accept

all the provisions, rights, privileges, and fraRchises of said
act of July 25, 1866,

.

.

.

and of all acts amendatory

thereof, and upon the conditions therein specified, and do
hereby give our assent and the assent of such company
thereto."
A certified copy of the resolution was filed in the office
of the Secretary of the Interior June 30, 1869, and in the
following October a map of survey of location of the first
60 miles of the projected line. On December 24, following, the company completed the first 20 miles within
the prescribed time, and the same was examined and
approved by commissioners appointed therefor pursuant
to the provisions of §4 of the act of 1866.
March 16, 1870, the Oregon & California Railroad
Company was incorporated, and, on March 29, 1870, the
East Side Company assigned to it all of its property, including the land grant, with present and future rights
under the act of July, 1866, and acts amendatory thereof
and supplemental thereto, and by virtue of any act or
resolution of the legislature of Oregon, and by the action
of its stockholders the East Side Company was dissolved
and its stock canceled.
Resolutions were adopted by the Oregon & California
Railroad Company accepting the transfer and also a
resolution accepting the act of 1866 and amendments
thereto, and "all the benefits and emoluments therein or
thereof granted, and upon the terms and conditions therein
specified," and authorizing its assent to be filed with the
Secretary of the Interior and a copy of the deed of assignment from the Oregon Central Railroad Company. This

UNITEb STATES.
OREGON & CAL. R. R. v..
238 U. S.

405

Statement of the Case.

was done, and since the date of the transfer (March 29,
1870) the Oregon & California Railroad Company has
assumed and still assumes itself to be the successor of the
East Side Company and of all its rights under the acts of
Congress.
The West Side Company abandoned all claims under
the act of 1866 and solicited and obtained from Congress,
by the act of May 4, 1870, a grant of other lands. The
act recited (Q1) that for the purpose of aiding in the construction of a'.railroad and telegraph line from Portland
to Astoria, and from a suitable point of junction near
Forest Grove to the Yamkill River, near McMinnville,
in the State of Oregon, there is granted to the Oregon
Central Railroad Company, now engaged in constructing
the said road, and to their successors and assigns, the right
of way through the public lands, and the right to take
materials from the public lands and necessary lands for
depots, etc., not exceeding 40 acres at any one place; and
also 20 alternate sections per mile of the public lands, not
mineral, excepting coal or iron lands, designated by odd
numbers, not disposed of or reserved or held by valid
preemption or homestead rights at the time of the passage
of the act.
There was the usual provision for selecting other lands
in case of deficiency; the survey of the lands along the
line of the railroad; the segregation of lands upon the
survey and location of 20 or more miles of road; and for
the disposition of the lands reserved by the Government
within the limits of the grant only to actual settlers at
double the minimum price for such lands.
The issuance of patents was provided (§ 3) upon the
completion and equipment of 20 mile sections of the railroad.
By §4 it was enacted "That the said alternate sections
of land granted by this act, excepting only such as are
necessary for the company to reserve for depots, stations,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 IT.S.

side tracks, wood yards, standing ground, and other
needful uses in operating the road, shall be sold by the
company only to actual settlers, in quantities not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres or a quarter section to
any one settler, and at prices not exceeding two dollars
and fifty cents per acre."
It was provided (§ 5) that the Company should, by
mortgage or deed of trust to two or more trustees, appropriate and set apart the net proceeds of the lands as a
sinking fund, to be kept invested in United States bonds
or other safe securities for the purchase from time to time
of the first mortgage construction bonds on the road,
depots, etc., and that no part of the funds should be applied to any other purpose until all of the bonds should
have been purchased or redeemed or canceled.
An assent to the act was required to be filed with the
Secretary of the Interior (§ 6) and it was expressed that
the grant was upon the condition that 20 miles or more of
the road should be completed within two years and the
entire road and telegraph line within six years from the
date of the act.
In this act Congress, by the words "Oregon Central
Railroad Company," referred to the West Side Company.
On July 20, 1870, the West Side Company filed its assent
to the act in the office of the Secretary of the Interior.
During the year 1870 the Oregon & California Railroad
Company procured, by mortgage bonds, approximately
$8,000,000, and during the year 1871 the West Side Company in the same way procured about $1,000,000. With
the funds thus procured thelines of railroad contemplated
by the act of 1866 and the act of May 4, 1870, respectively,
were prosecuted continuously until about January, 1873.
As stated, the East Side Company completed the construction of the first 20 miles of its railroad, and the
Oregon & California Railroad Company, after the assignment and transfer to it, as stated, continued construction

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

407

Statement of the Case.

in 1870, 1871 and 1872 for a distance of approximately
197 miles; and the West Side Company, with the funds
procured by it in 1871, constructed its line under the act
of 1870 from Portland to McMinnville, a distance of
approximately 47 miles. There was no other construction
by the West Side Company, and the lands contiguous to
the line of road from Forest Grove to Astoria was forfeited by act of Congress of January 31, 1885.
Financial vicissitudes came to both companies and construction was suspended. It was never resumed by the
West Side Company, and the East Side Company, under
its new name of Oregon & California Railroad Company,
finally became, by the assignment of the West Side Company, the owner of the grants under both acts.
The consideration of the conveyance was the payment
of the debts of the West Side Company. Since the date
of the conveyance the Oregon & California Railroad Company has assumed and still assumes itself to be the successor of the West Side Company in and to all of the rights,
franchises and property granted or intended to be granted
by the act of May 4, 1870.
Further financial difficulties impeded the construction
of the road and these were met by the various processes
detailed in the stipulation of facts, and which we omit
except as referred to in the opinion. Among these were a
cancellation of the stock of the company and a reissue
secured by a trust deed, of which Stephen T. Gage became
the only surviving trustee, an issue of bonds, the trust
deed to the Union Trust Company, leases to the Southern
Pacific Company and the final control by that company
through stock ownership of all of the properties and land
grants. That company thereafter administered the land
grants. These transactions were alleged as breaches of
the conditions which, it is contended, were constituted by
the provisos in the respective acts given above, providing
for the sale of the granted lands to actual settlers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

163,430.28 acres of the granted lands were sold by the
Oregon & California Railroad Company prior to May 12,
1887, nearly all of which were sold to actual settlers, in
small quantities, although in a few instances the quantities exceeded 160 acres to one purchaser and the prices
were slightly in excess of $2.50 an acre. A rapidly increasing demand for the lands in large quantities-and at
increased prices commenced about 1889 or 1890 and has
continued ever since. From 1894 to 1903 some of the
granted lands were sold to persons not actual settlers in
quantities and at prices exceeding the maximum designated in the provisos, and in several instances in quantities of from 1,000 to 20,000 acres to one purchaser at prices
ranging from $5 to $40 an acre-and in one instance a
sale of 45,000 acres at $7 an acre to a single purchaser.
About 5,306 sales were made, aggregating 820,000 acres,
of which sales about 4,930 were for quantities not exceeding 160 acres and 376 sales in quantities exceeding 160
acres to one purchaser, aggregating 524,000 acres. The
latter sales were to persons other than actual settlers and
for other purposes than settlement and at prices in excess
of $2.50 an acre; and approximately 478,000 acres were
sold since 1897 and approximately 370,000 of the 524,000
were sold to 38 purchasers in quantities exceeding 2,000
acres to each purchaser. Approximately three-fourths
of all sales made since 1897 were made by contracts providing for the payment of the purchase price in from five
to ten annual payments and execution of conveyance
upon final payment, a considerable number of which
contracts were pending when this suit was brought.
On January 1, 1903, the company withdrew from sale
all of its lands and refused to accept offers for any of them,
asserting that they were timber lands and unsuitable for
settlement. At the time the answer was filed there remained unsold 2,360,492.81 acres, of which 2,075,616.45
acres were theretofore patented under the land grant

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

409

Statement of the Case.

acts, and 284,876.36 at that time remained unpatented,
all of which are claimed by the company under the land
grants.
Since January, 1903, over 4,000 persons have applied
to purchase certain of the unsold lands, claiming that they
desired to do so for the purpose of settling and establishing homes thereon, and each applicant stated that he was
willing and able to tender at the rate of $2.50 per acre
therefor. Until about the year 1890 or 1891 there was
substantially no demand for the granted lands except
for the purpose of settlement, and nearly all of the sales
prior to the year 1894 were made for settlement and to
settlers.
. Prior to 1894 the company maintained an immigration
bureau to induce settlement upon the lands, and, the
greater part of the sales made after that year were to
persons not settlers and for prices exceeding $2.50 per
acre.
It was testified that the gross amount of lands that
inured to the Oregon & California Railroad Company
under both the East Side and the West Side grants was
3,182,169.57 acres, and it was stipulated that between the
years 1871 and 1906 there were patented under the East
Side grant 2,745,786.68 acres and between the years 1895
and 1903 there were patented under the West Side grant
128,618.13 acres, leaving unpatented 307,764.76 acres.
At the time the answer was filed there remained unsold of the granted lands 2,360,492.81 acres, of which
2,075,616.45 acres were theretofore patented to the Oregon
& California Railroad Company under the land grants
and 284,876.36 thereof at that time remained unpatented,
all of which unsold lands are claimed by the railroad company under and by virtue of the grants. The reasonable
value of said unsold lands exceed the sum of $30,000,000.
There is a table attached to the answer showing the net
amount received by the railroad company to be, after

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

238 U. S.

all disbursements, $2,495,094.03. (The bill, as we have
seen and shall presently more at length refer to, prays
a forfeiture of the unsold lands only.)
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Interior
'Department, all of the patents were issued to and based
upon applications in writing therefor from time to time
filed in the appropriate land office of the United States
by the Oregon & California Railroad Company as the
"successor and assign" of the East Side Company and
the West Side Company, respectively. Each application was accompanied by an affidavit which alleged,
among other things, the following: "The said lands are
vacant, unappropriated, are not interdicted mineral, nor
reserved lands, and are of the character contemplated by
the granting act" under which the patents were applied for.
The stipulation sets out the creation of an Auditor of
Railroad Accounts, and subsequently the creation of a
Commissioner of Railroads and his duties by various acts
of Congress until 1904, when the bureau was terminated
and the duties, files and records thereof were transferred
to the Secretary of' the Interior, and that from 1879 to
and including 1903 reports were made of the transactions
of the Land Department of the Oregon & California Railroad Company upon blanks furnished by such bureau.
The details of the reports are given, which show many
sales of the lands in excess of $2.50 per acre.
The bureau, it is stipulated, made annual reports to
the Secretary of the Interior which were embodied in his
annual reports to the President and by the President. forwarded to Congress, where they were referred to approprjate committees and printed as executive documents.
These reports show the administration of the grants by
the company, the number of acres received under the
grants, the number sold and at what prices, some of which
exceeded $2.50 per acre, and that the price asked for
lands not sold was in excess of that sum per acre.

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

411

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. P. F. Dunne, with whom Mr. Win. F. Herrin, Mr.
Wm. D. Fenton, Mr. Frank C. Cleary and Mr. Joseph H.
Call were on the brief, for appellant railroads.
Mr. John C. Spooner, with whom Mr. John,M. Gearin
was on the brief, for appellant, Union Trust Company.
Mr. John Mills Day, with whom Mr. M. E. Brewer,
Mr. Charles E. Shepard and Mr. Lewis C. Garrigus were
on the brief, for interveners.
Mr. A. W. Lafferty for cross complainant.
Mr. Constantine J. Smyth, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Davis
and Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel were on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. George M. Brown, Attorney General of the State of
Oregon, filed a brief as amicus curice.1

After stating the case as above, MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA
delivered the opinion of the court.
A direct and simple description of the case would seem
to be that it presents for judgment a few provisions in two
acts of Congress which neither of themselves nor from the
context demand much effort of interpretation or construction. But the case has never been considered as having
that simple directness. A bill which occupies 78 pages of
the record (exclusive of exhibits), the allegations of which
were iterated and reiterated by cross complainants and
interveners and added to, and an answer that admitted or
It is not possible to make abstracts of the briefs, as there are more
than ten of them containing over 2500 pages. Several hundred authorities are cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

traversed their averments with equal volume and circumstance, constituted the case for trial. Seventeen volumes
of testimony, each of many pages, were deemed necessary
to sustain the case as made. It is certain, therefore, that
no averment has been omitted from the pleadings; no
fact from the testimony that has any bearing on the case;
the industry of counsel has neglected no statute or citation, and their ability no comment or reason that can
elucidate or persuade. As we proceed it will be seen that
we have rejected some contentions. It is not the fault of
counsel if we have misunderstood them.
Yet with all the research, it may be on account of it,
the contestants have not preserved an exact alignment
and have shown no preference as to the company in which
contentions are made or opposed.
The Government contends that the provisos, we so
designate them and shall so refer to them, though they
differ in technical language, constitute conditions subsequent and that by the alleged breaches indicated the lands
became forfeited to the United States. The railroad company and other defendants contend that the provisos constitute restrictive and unenforceable covenants. The cross
complainants insist that a trust was created for actual
settlers and the interveners urge that the trust has the
broader scope of including all persons who desire to make
actual settlement upon the lands.
This curious situation is presented: The Government
joins with the railroad in opposing the contentions of the
cross complainants and interveners. Both of the latter
unite with the Government in contesting the position of
the railroad but join with the railroad against the Government's assertion of forfeiture. The cross complainants
attack the claim of the interveners, and the State of
Oregon, through its Attorney General, without definitely
taking sides in the controversies, declares it to be to the
interest of the State and expresses the hope that the lands

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

413

Opinion of the Court.

now withdrawn by the railroad shall be "subject to settlement and improvement, as contemplated by the provisions
of the grant, in order that these vast areas of the State
may be improved, but also that the lands may not be
withdrawn from taxation, thus depriving the State, and
especially the eighteen counties in which they are situated,
of a large proportion of their resources from direct taxation." The interest and hope expressed seem like a prayer
against the Government's contentions.
There is something more in these opposing contentions
than a wrangle or medley of interests, and we are admonished that the words of the provisos, simple and direct
as they are of themselves, take on, when they come to be
applied, ambiguous and disputable meaning. It may be
said at the outset that if ambiguity exists there may be
argument in it against some of the contentions.
However, without anticipating, let us consider the provisos, and we repeat them to have them immediately
under our eyes. The first is contained in the act of
April 10, 1869. That act was expressed to be an amendment of the act of 1866 and to relieve from the effect of
the expiration of the time for filing assent to the act of
1866 and to give "such filing of assent, if done within one
year from the passage of the" amending act, the same
force and effect to all intents and purposes as if it had
been filed within one year after the passage of the act of
1866. Then came this proviso, which was preceded by
another not necessary to quote: "And provided further,
That the lands granted by the act aforesaid shall be sold
to actual settlers only, in quantities not greater than one
quarter section to one purchaser, and for a price not exceeding two dollars and fifty cents per acre."
The act of May 4, 1870, making the grant to the West
Side Company, provides in § 4 that the lands granted,
excepting only such as are necessary for depots and other
needful uses in operating the road, "shall be sold by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

company to actual settlers," the quantities and the price
being designated as in the act of 1869.
These, then, are the provisos which are submitted for
construction. The contention of the Government is as
we have seen, and it lies at the foundation of its assertion
of forfeiture of the grant, that they constitute conditions
subsequent.
The argument to support the contention is based first
on the general considerations that experience had demonstrated to the country the 6vils of unrestricted grants,
and that the bounty of Congress had been perverted into
a means of enriching "a few financial adventurers," and
that lands granted for national purposes "were disposed
of in large blocks to,speculators as well as to development
companies organized by officers of the railroad companies."
Informed by such experience, in substance is the contention, and solicited by petition and moved by the reasoning
of some of its members, Congress changed its policy of
unqualified bounty, and, while not refusing to contribute
to the aid of great enterprises, sought to prevent the perversion of such aid to selfish and personal ends, and to
promote the development of the country by the disposition to actual settlers of the lands granted. And, it is insisted, efficient means were adopted to secure the purpose
by making the provisos conditions subsequent, with the
sanction of forfeiture for violation.
These general considerations are supplemented by a
special and technical argument. The provisos and their
context, it is said, show the general characteristics of conditions, that is, they make the estate granted and its
continuance to depend upon the doing of something by
the grantee, and that the proviso in the act of 1869 is expressed in apt and technical words, by the use of which, it
is further contended, it is established by authority that an
estate upon condition is necessarily created. Cases are
cited, and the following is quoted from page 121 of Shep

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

415

Opinion of the Court.

pard's Touchstone: "That for the most part conditions
have conditional words in their frontispiece, and do begin
therewith; and that amongst these words there are three
words that are most proper, which in and of their own
nature and efficacy, without any addition of other words
of reentry in the conclusion of the condition, do make the
estate conditional, as proviso, ita quod, and sub conditione. . . . But there are other words, as si, si
contingat, and the like, that will make an estate conditional also, but then they must have other words joined
with them and added to them in the close of the condition,
as that then the grantor shall reenter, or that then the
estate shall be void, or the like." And words of such determining effect, it is urged, introduce and give meaning
to the proviso in the amendatory act of 1869.
But it will be observed there are no such controlling
words in the provision for the sale to actual settlers in the
act of May 4, 1870, that is, in the grant to the West Side
Company; and the Government is confronted by the rule
which it quotes, that in such cases there must be "words of
reentry" or a declaration "that then the estate shall be
void, or the like." The Government, therefore, varies and
relaxes the rule it invokes and admits that the sense of a
law or terms of an instrument may be found in other words
than the quoted technical ones if the intention is made clear.
It is not necessary to review the cases cited respectively
to sustain and oppose the contending arguments. The
principles announced in the cases are rudimentary and
may be assumed to be known and the final test of their
application to be the intention of the grantor.
These principles will be kept in mind in our consideration of the acts of Congress involved, and, besides, that
there may be a difference in rigor between public and
private grants and that this court has especially said that
railroad land grants have the command and necessarily,
therefore, the effect of law.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

The Government reinforces its contention, as we have
seen, with what it considers a change of policy in legislation and in effect insists that restrictions upon the disposition of the lands granted became more dominant in purpose than the building of the roads, to aid which it was
admitted the lands were necessary. The argument is
hard to handle, as indeed are all arguments which attempt
to assign the exact or relative inducements to conjoint
purposes. In the first grants to railroads there ,were no
restrictions upon the disposition of the lands. They were
given as aids to enterprises of great magnitude and uncertain success and which might not have succeeded under a
restrictive or qualified aid. However, a change of times
and conditions brought a change in policy, and while
there was a definite and distinct purpose to aid the building of other railroads, there was also the purpose to restrict
the sale of the granted lands to aetual settlers. These
purposes should be kept in mind and in their proper
relation and subordination.
We shall be led into error if we conclude that
because
the railroad is attained it was from the beginning an
assured success, and that it was a secondary and not a
primary purpose of the acts of Congress. There is much
in the argument of the defendant% that the aid to the
company was part of the national purpose, which this
court has said induced the grants to the transcontinental
railroads (91 U. S. 79; 99 U. S. 48; United States v. Sanford, 161 U.. S. 412). And we may say that the policy was
justified by success. Empire was given a path westward
and prosperous- commonwealths took the place of a
wilderness.
But such success had not been achieved when the grant
of 1866 was made nor in full measure when the acts of
1869 and 1870 were passed, and it may be conceded that
they were intended to continue and complete such national
purpose, and that it was of the first consideration, but the

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

417

Opinion of the Court.

secondary purpose was regarded and provided for in the
provisos under review. Both purposes must be considered.
It may be that it was not expected that actual settlers
would crowd into "the vast unpeopled territory," but
the existence of such settlers at some time must have been
contemplated. Both purposes, we repeat, were to be
subserved, and how to be subserved is the problem of the
case.
There is certainly a first impression against a forfeiture
being the solution of the problem or that there was necessity for it. A forfeiture of the grant might have been the
destruction of the enterprise, and settlement postponed or
made impossible to any useful extent by the inaccessibility
of the lands. And forfeiture was besides beset with many
practical difficulties as a remedy. When, indeed, would it
be incurred? The obligation of the provisos and the
remedy for their breach were coincident. The refusal
of the demand of the first actual settler (if there could
be such without the consent of the railroad) or of the first
applicant for settlement would subvert the scheme of the
acts of Congress. It cannot be that the grants were intended to be so dependent and precarious and the enterprises so menaced with peril and, it might be, brought to
disaster.
Are the contingencies fanciful? Such character may be"
asserted of any conjecture of what might have occurred
but which did not, and yet to construe a statute we must
realize its inducements and aims, solving disputes about
them by a consideration of what might accomplish or
defeat such aims. The acts under review conferred rights
as well as imposed obligations, and it could not have been
intended that the latter should be so enforced as to defeat
the former. We have given an instance of how this might
be done by regarding the provisos as conditions subsequent. Another instance may be given. In its argument
at bar the Government insisted that it was the duty of
voL. ccxxxvii-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

the railroad company to have provided the machinery
for settlement and, by optional sales, guarded by probational occupation of the lands, to demonstrate not only
initial but the continued good faith of settlers, and that
the omission to do so was of itself a breach of the provisos
and incurred a forfeiture of the grants. But when did such

obligation attach? Before or after the construction of the
road-construction in sections or completely?. The contention encounters the GoVernment's admission that
there was no obligation imposed upon the railroad to sell.
And we have the curious situation (which is made something of by cross complainants and interveners in opposition to the Government's contention). of the right of
settlers to buy but no obligation on the railroad to sell,
and yet a duty of providing for sales under an extreme and
drastic penalty. We may repeat the question, Might not
such consequences have ended the enterprise, making it
and its great purpose subordinate to local settlement?
Indeed, might not both have been defeated by the inversion of their purposes.
The omission to institute a plan of settlement and sale is
not alleged in the bill as a breach of the provisos. The
first breach alleged is the trust deed to Stephen T. Gage,
and the next the trust deed to the Union Trust Company.
But these deeds manifestly were but foims of security,
even if they went too far and were not binding to the
extent of their excess. The Government admits that
the grants were intended to be used as a basis of credit;
and we have argument again against a forfeiture by the
dilemma to which the railroad might be brought in its
attempt to comply with all the provisions of the act as
well as with the provisos. If it failed to complete the road
within the time required the granting act was io become
"null and void," (upon which we shall presently comment). If it made efforts to complete the road by using
the grants as a means of credit it might forfeit them.

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

419

Opinion of the Court.,

But there is a better argument than what may be deduced from the solution of perplexing difficulties or the
conjecture of possible contingencies. It will be observed
that there was an explicit provision in the act of 1866 that
upon the failure of the companies to file assent to the act
and to complete the road as and within the time required,
the act should "be null and void" and the lands not
patented at the time of such failure should "revert to the
United States." And it was provided that if the road
should not be "kept in repair and fit for use," Congress by
legislation might put the same in that condition and repay
its expenditures from the road's income or fix pecuniary
responsibility upon the company not exceeding the value
of the lands granted.
Congress, therefore, had under consideration remedies
for violations of the provisions of the act and adjusted
them according to what it considered the exigency. As a
penalty for not completing the road as prescribed Congress
declared only for a reversion of the lands not then patented;
for not maintaining it in repair and use Congress reserved
the right temporarily to sequester the road; and yet for a
violation of the provision for sale to settlers it is urged
that Congress condemned to forfeiture not only the lands
then unpatented but those patented. Mark the difference.
Was noncompletion of the road of less consequence than
settlement along Jts line?-not necessarily complete
settlement but any settlement-the refusal, it might be,
of the acceptance of a single offer of settlement or even,
as it is contended, of making provision for settlement,
being of greater consequence and denounced by more
severe penalty than the declared conditions, that is,
assent to the act, completion of the road, and its maintenance. This is difficult, if not impossible to believe.
It appears, therefore, that the acts of Congress have no
such certainty as to establish forfeiture of the grants as
their sanction, nor necessity for it to secure the accom-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S..

plishment of their purposes,-either of the construction
of the road or sale to actual settlers-and we think the
principle must govern that conditions subsequent are not
favored but are always strictly construed, and where there
are doubts whether a clause be a covenant or condition
the courts will incline against the latter construction;
indeed, always construe clauses in deeds as covenants
rather than as conditions, if it is possible to do so. 2
Washburn on Real Property, 4. And this because "they
are clauses of contingency on the happening of which the
estates granted may be defeated." And it is a general
principle that a court of equity is reluctant to (some authorities say never will) lend its aid to enforce a forfeiture.
By this conclusion do we leave the provisos meaningless
and the Government without remedy for their violation?
There is no argument in a negative answer. From the
defects of a provision we can deduce nothing nor on account of them substitute one of greater efficacy.
But must the answer be in the negative, and by rejecting the contention of the Government are we compelled to accept that of the railroad company?-or we
may say those of the railroad company, for the contentions
are many, some of which preclude the application of the
provisos, some of which assert their invalidity and others
limit their application.
If not first in order, at least in more immediate connection with the contention of the Government is the contention that the provisos are not conditions subsequent
but simple covenants, and, it is said, restrictive and negative only, and therefore not enforceable. In support of
the contention all of the uncertainties or asserted uncertainties of the provisos are marshaled and amplified.
We can only enumerate them. There is uncertainty, it is
asserted, in the legal measure of duty, therefore of its
performance-for whom to be performed and when; nor
is the time or condition of settlement prescribed, whether

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U.S.

421

Opinion of the Court.

by the standard of the homestead or preemption laws;
nor by what test or by what tribunal contests between
applicants to purchase are to be determined; no compulsion of sale at any time, to any person, in any quantity;
no mutuality in the covenant; no assurance that settlers
will apply, and no obligation assumed by them. And the
conclusion is deduced that the actual settlers clauses,
viewed even as covenants, were either impossible of performance or repugnant to the grants, and, therefore, void.
The arraignment seems very formidable, but is it not
entirely artificial? It is stipulated that prior to 1887 more
than 163,000 acres of the granted lands were sold, nearly
all of which were sold to. actual settlers, in small quantities.
If the sale of 163,000 acres of land encountered no obstacle in the enumerated uncertainties we cannot be impressed with their power to obstruct the sale of th'e balance of the lands. The demonstration of the example
would seem to need no addition. But passing the exanple,
as it may be contended to have some explanation in the
character of the lands so disposed of, the deduction from
the asserted uncertainties is met and overcome by the
provisos and their explicit direction. They are, it is true,
cast in language of limitation and prohibition; the sales
are to be made only to certain persons and not exceeding
a specified maximum in quantities and prices. If the
language may be said not to impose "an affirmative obligation to people the country" it certainly imposes an
obligation not to violate the limitations and prohibitions
when sales were made, and it is the concession of one of
the briefs that the obligation is enforceable, and that,
even regarding the covenant as restrictive, the "jurisdiction of a court of equity, upon a breach or threatened
breach of the covenant, to enforce performance by enjoining a violation of the covenant cannot be doubted."
Apposite cases are cited to sustain the admission, and in
answer to the contention of the Government that it could

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of tile Court.

238 U. S.

recover no damages for the breach and hence had no enforceable remedy but forfeiture, it is said: "But the
jurisdiction of a court of equity in such cases does not
depend upon the showing of damage. Indeed, the very
fact that injury is of public character and such that no
damage could be calculated, is an added reason for the
intervention of equity." And cases are adduced. We
concur in the reasoning and give it greater breadth in the
case at bar than counsel do. They would confine it, or
seem to do so, to the compulsion of sales of land susceptible of actual settlement, and assert that the evidence
established that not all of the lands, nor indeed the
greater part of them, have such susceptibility. But
neither the provisos nor the other parts of the granting
acts make a distinction between the lands, and we are
unable to do so. The language of the grants and of the
limitations upon them is general. We cannot attach exceptions to it. The evil of an attempt is manifest. The grants
must be taken as they were given. Assent to them was
required and made, and we cannot import a different
measure of the requirement and the assent than the
language of the act expresses. It is to be remembered
the acts are laws as well as grants and must be given the
exactness of laws.
If the provisos were ignorantly adopted as they are
asserted to have been; if the actual conditions were unknown, as is asserted; if but little of the land was arable,
most of it covered with timber and valuable only for timber
and not fit for the acquisition of homes; if a great deal of it
was nothing but a wilderness of mountain and rock and
forest; if its character was given evidence by the application of the Timber & Stone Act to the reserved lands;
if settlers neither crowded before nor crowded after the
railroad; nor could do so; if the grants were not as valuable
for sale or credit as they were supposed to have been and
difficulties beset both uses, the remedy was obvious.

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

423

Opinion of the Court.

Granting the obstacles and infirmities, they were but
promptings and reasons for an appeal to Congress to relax
the law; they were neither cause nor justification for
violating it. Besides, we may say that there is controversy
about all of the asserted facts and conclusions.
Our conclusions, then, on the contentions of the Government and the railroad company are that the provisos
are not conditions subsequent; that they are covenants,
and enforceable; and we pass to the other contentions of
the company.
It is contended (1) that Congress was without lawful
authority on April 10, 1869, to annex a new condition, by
amendment or otherwise, to the grant made. by the act
of 1866 as amended by the act of June 25, 1868 (the latter
extended the time to complete the first and subsequent
sections of the road and the completion of the whole road).
We do not think it is necessary to follow the involutions
of the argument by which the contention is attempted
to be supported. It is asserted that the California &
Oregon Railroad Company filed its assent within one year
and completed the first section of twenty miles within two
years after the passage of the act of July 25, 1866, and
that the Oregon Central Railroad Company (East Side
Company) was not in default on April 10, 1869. The
assertions come very late. Had they been made at that
early time, questions would have been presented whose
solution we need not conjecture. The West Side Company
preceded the East Side Company and on October 10, 1866,
received the designation from the Oregon legislature as
the road entitled to receive the grant of 1866. The East
Side Company started its existence on April 22, 1867,
and in 1868 attacked the legality of the incorporation of
the other company and procured the revocation of the
designation of that company and the designation of itself
by the legislature. The controversy for precedence and
rights continued. It was carried to Congress, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

act of April 10, 1869, was passed. Subsequently came
compromises and the act of May 4, 1870. By the latter
act and in acceptance of its grant and provisions, the West
Side Company took the west side of the Willamette River.
The East Side Company took the east side of the river and
on June 8, 1869, by resolution, accepted the provisions
of the act of 1866 "and of all acts amendatory thereof,
and upon conditions therein specified, and do hereby give
our assent and the assent of such company thereto."
It was not then thought, as it is now asserted, that the
act of 1869 annexed new and invalid conditions, nor was
there such assertion afterwards. The East Side Company, on March 29, 1870, assigned its rights under the
act of 1866 and the acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto to the present company, the Oregon &
California Railroad Company, and then dissolved. The
Oregon & California Railroad Company accepted the
transfer and by resolution accepted the act of 1866 and
amendments thereto and "all the benefits and emoluments therein and thereof granted, and upon the terms
and conditions therein specified," and authorized the
assent to be filed in the office of the Secretary of the
Interior.
It is too late to declare such formal and repeated action
to have been unnecessary. Every advantage was obtained,
and while enjoying the benefit of it the obligations of it
cannot be denied. Had there been an assertion of rights
against the act of 1869 and had there been an immediate
rejection of its provisions and obligations, the questions
in the present case would not now be submitted for solution. It is possible to suppose that no patents to lands
would have been issued, or at any rate the Government's
attention would haye been challenged to the assertion of
rights which it might have contested from a position of
supreme advantage.
(2) It is contended that if sales were made under the

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

425

Opinion of the Court.

limitations of the provisos the breaches were acquiesced
in, and for this the action and knowledge of the officers
of the Government are adduced-indeed, the knowledge
of Congress itself; and reciting what was done under the
grants, counsel say: "It is a story of mortgages and sales,
executory contracts and conveyances, and a stream of
Government patents flowing in between. These things
were known of all; they were matters of common knowledge, notoriety, of public record; the railroad knew them;
the people knew them, the Government knew them." And
cases are cited which, it is contended, establish that such
circumstances might work an estoppel even against the
Government, which, when it appears in court, it is contended, is bound like other suitors, and certainly establish
that for more than forty years in the view of the executive
officers the provisos were not conditions subsequent.
Granting their strength in that regard, granting they have
some strength in every regard, they have not controlling
force, considering the provisos as simple covenants. And
they cannot be asserted as an estoppel. No one was deceived, at least no one should have been deceived; no
action was or should have been induced by them that
could plead ignorance of the provisions and immunity
from their responsibility. The recited conduct had explanation and notice in the opinions of the Department
of the Interior. They are entirely consistent with the
belief expressed by Mr. Ballinger, then Commissioner,
afterwards Secretary of the Interior, that their enforcement was a matter for the courts, not for executive or
legislative action.
Mr. Ballinger, in a communication to a member of the
House of Representatives, expressed the view that "as
soon as the title vested in the company [and it was his
view that it had vested by the construction of the railroad],
jurisdiction over the lands passed from the executive
branch of the Government, and the enforcement of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

provision [the sale of lands to actual settlers] rests with
the courts, through appropriate action by either the settlers entitled to purchase or by the Government, acting
through the Department of Justice." And a doubt was
expressed of the power of Congress .to compel compliance
with the provision. This was the position of the Department in 1907. It was not new or sudden. It was the repetition of the declaration of a much earlier time.
In an early day of the grant-1872-a communication
was addressed by the then Attorney General to the Commissioner of the Land Office, accompanied by a letter
from the president of the European & Oregon Land Company (this company was made a trustee of the lands
granted under the acts of 1866 and 1869 to secure a bond
issue of the company), in which it was stated that the
board of trustees of the company, in accordance with a
legal opinion given to it, had ordered that persons who
had become actual settlers between July 25, 1866, and
April 10, 1869, should have the privilege of purchasing
according to the proviso, "but as to all others the company
was not legally restricted from selling on liberal terms, for
cash or credit, at reasonable rates." A request was made
for an approval of the construction, and that the company
be authorized "to sell on such terms as may be reasonable
and just to all parties without any restrictions." This
letter was submitted to the then Secretary of the Interior
Mr. Deland, who replied "that the proviso means just
what it says," "'that the lands be sold to. actual settlers
only"' in the designated quantities and for the designated
prices; that the legislative intention was plainly to prevent
the lands being held for speculative prices or disposed of to
others than actual settlers, and that to construe the proviso as requested would in his "judgment utterly defeat
such intention."
It being objected that the case was not submitted for
decision or opinion, the Secretary replied that it was so

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

427

Opinion of the Court.

regarded and that the opinion could not be formally withdrawn. He, however, expressed his willingness at any
time on application to reopen the case and to hear all
arguments which the company might desire to present.
The opportunity was.never taken advantage of, but the
company proceeded upon its own construction of the
proviso.
These views explain the attitude of the Department
and give different color and meaning to its action than
those assigned to it by the railroad company, and if the
company disagreed with or defied the Department it cannot claim to have been deceived. The views of the Department were no doubt the views of Congress, and its
action and reluctance to prejudge are exhibited in the
resolution of April 30, 1908, under which this suit was
brought. It refused, as we have seen, to determine
peremptorily the rights of the United States or to anticipate judicial action.
We may observe again that the acts of Congress are
laws as well as grants and have the constancy of laws as
well as their command and are operative and obligatory
until repealed. This comment applies to and answers all
the other contentions of the railroad company based on
waiver, acquiescence and estoppel and even to the defenses of laches and the statute of limitations. The laws
which are urged as giving such defenses and as taking away
or modifying the remedies under review have no application. It would extend this opinion too much to enter
upon their discussion.
A word of comment may be made upon one of the acts
adduced as constituting a waiver of the breaches of the
covenants, that is, upon the act passed August 20, 1912
(c. 311, 37 Stat. 320), it being supplemental to the joint
resolution of April 30, 1908, supra. It was passed after
this suit was commenced and brought forward with the
other acts by an amendment to the answer. Counsel as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

sert of it substantially as alleged in the answer that it "is
a recognition of the non-settlement character of the lands
involved, and that such lands, at the time they were sold
to the so-called innocent purchasers described in forty-five
suits brought by the United States against said purchasers
and these defendants in this court, are unfit for settlement
and were so unfit for settlement and could not be sold to
actual settlers at the time they were sold by the company
to such purchasers."
We have answered the contention so far as it depends
upon the character of the lands. The character of the
lands furnished no excuse. It might have justified nonaction, but it did not justify antagonistic action. Moreover the act, while it authorized compromises with
purchasers from the company, explicitly excluded the application of the provision to lands in the present suit and
declared that it should create no" rights or privileges whatever in favor of any of the defendants therein" and that
nothing in the act should condone any of the breaches of
the conditions or provisions of the granting acts nor be a
waiver of any cause of action or remedy of the United
States on account of any such breach or breaches or of
any right or remedy existing in favor of the United States.'
With the provisos as conditions subsequent out of the
way, the suit remains one to enforce a continuing covenant. It is not a suit to vacate and annul patents.

I "SEc. 6. That nothing in this act contained, nor action taken pursuant to the provisions of this Act, shall be construed as a condonation
of any of the breaches of any of the conditions or provisions annexed
to any of th6 grants designated in said joint resolution approved April
thirtieth, nineteen hundred and eight, nor as a waiver of any of said
conditions or provisions, nor as a waiver of any right of forfeiture in
favor of the United States on account of any breach or breaches of
any of said conditions, nor as a waiver of any cause of action or remedy
of the United States on account of any breach or breaches of any said
conditions or provisions, nor as a waiver of any other rights or remedies
existing in favor of the United States." *

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES. 429
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

(3) There is a special contention, given the pretension
of a separate brief, that the "Sinking Fund Act of Congress of May 7, 1878, ratified the transfer of the California
& Oregon Railroad and its land in California to the Central Pacific Company, and operated to abrogate the
'Settlers Clause' contained in the acts of April 10, 1869,
and May 4, 1870." The argument to support the contention -isthat the Central Pacific Railroad Company became,
with the consent of Congress, the owner of the California
& Oregon Railroad (to avoid confusion this company
must be kept distinct from the defendant Oregon & California Railroad) in 1870, and that after such transfer and
date it became impossible for the latter company, to sell
the lands for the prescribed price, or for any other price,
or to settlers in any quantities, "for the reason that the
company had parted with its title to the entire grant, and
this was recognized, approved and validated by the United
States." The contention seems to be directed more to the
settlers' clause viewed as a condition subsequent than to
it considered as a covenant. It is, however, said that the
clause "has been entirely abrogated by said legislation
and the acts of the Government." We are not impressed
by the contention. It seems to be a tardy claim in the
case and is the dare of an extreme ingenuity against the
admissions and averments of the answers and many assertions which the record contains of ownership of and
dominion over the lands by the Oregon and California
Company and of their disposition by it. Indeed, it is opposed to the whole scheme of the suit and the defenses
to it and to the stipulation of the parties. It there appears that after the designated date patents were applied
for and issued to the Oregon & California Railroad Company, defendant herein, for 323,078.68 acres of land, over
163,000 acres of which were sold by that company to
actual settlers. Indeed, all of the activities in the administration of the grants were those of the Oregon & California

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

Railroad. It made contracts and executed deeds for particular parcels; it made trust deeds for the whole of them;
it went into receivership and emerged from it to resume
its activities, and made the reports to Congress upon
which it bases the acquiescence of the Government in the
breaches of the provisos.
It is true that there appears in the stipulation the confusion of a statement that there was an amalgamation
and consolidation of the Central Pacific, Western Pacific
and Oregon Central Railroad Companies into the Central
Pacific Company and that at the time the articles of
amalgamation and consolidation were filed (June 23, 1870)
the California & Oregon Railroad Company "was the
owner of all unsold lands in California" granted by the
act of July 25, 1866; that from the date of filing such
articles of amalgamation and consolidation the Central
Pacific Railroad Company remained owner of all of the
lands granted by the act of 1866 and two other acts
which made grants to the latter company until 1899, when
what remained unsold of the lands were granted to the
Central Pacific Railway. But it is stipulated that the
statements "concerning the ownership and conveyance of
the lands granted by said acts of Congress are made subject to the terms and provisions of said acts of Congress
respectively, and all rights of the United States thereunder-the title to said lands not being an issue in the
suit at bar." Why these facts were stipulated it is hard
to guess, but it is certain they cannot be given effect
against all other facts stipulated. It will be observed the
stipulation is concerned only with the California & Oregon
Railroad, not with the defendant Oregon & California
Railroad. The explanation of the Government is, therefore, correct that the Oregon part of the grant was by
the grant itself treated as substantially distinct from the
California part and that the Oregon part has always been
claimed, used and enjoyed by defendant, the Oregon &

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

431

Opinion of the Court.

California Railroad Company or its predecessors in title,
and never by the Central Pacific.
The provisos of the acts having been thus established as
covenants, not conditions subsequent, between the Government and the defendants, and their continuing obligation determined, we are brought to the consideration
of the rights of the cross complainants and interveners
thereunder.
It may be said that in some of the aspects of our discussion there was implication against their contentions,
but it also may be said there is implication for them.
Undoubtedly the provisos expressed the policy of the
settlement of the lands and a sale to settlers, but the
cross complainants and interveners assert a right more
definite--a trust, indeed, and personal-of compulsory
obligation upon the railroad company, to be enforced
in individual suits.
Snyder and 63 others, alleging themselves to be actual
settlers upon specified lands, brought suits nearly a
year before the present suit was comnenced. They were
brought into this suit and are now here as cross complainants. They pray that the grants be declared to be
grants in trust and ask for protection, "whatever form
of decree may be entered." They further ask "that
receivers or trustees be appointed, whose duty it shall
be to formulate, with the approval of the District Court,
suitable rules and regulations for the sale of all the lands
here involved, in accordance with the acts of Congress
making the grants." They deny having anything in
common with the interveners, and, as we have seen,
vigorously attack the claim of the Government for a
forfeiture of the grants.
The interveners concur with the cross complainants
that the acts created a trust but assert that they have a
broader extent. In other words, and as their counsel
express it, the intention of Congress was to create a trust

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

in the granted lands for the benefit of those who might
desire to acquire title thereto, that is, not actual settlement was the condition of purchase, but an intention to
settle, with the qualification to do so.
Here, then, is a conflict between the asserted beneficiaries of the asserted trust-whether actual settlers,
as cross complainants contend, or applicants for settlement, as the interveners insist. The distinction would
seem to be real and cannot be confounded. The word'
"actual" expresses a settlement completed, not simply
contemplated or possible. Upon the express words of
the provisos it would seem that interveners' claims to be
beneficiaries of the trustiif there is a trust, must be refuted.
The cross complainants present arguments of more
difficulty, supported by appealing considerations. "Actual settlers" are the words of the provisos, and we may
assume actual settlers were contemplated and sales of
the lands were restricted to them; but how were actual
settlers to be ascertained, and by whom? And was there
a compulsion or option as to sales? There could not be an
absolute right to settle or purchase unless there was an
absolute compulsion to sell. The acts of Congress omit
regulation. Their language is not directive; it is restrictive only. With this exception the grant is unqualified.
The lands were granted to aid in the construction of the
road and while it is a certain inference that disposition of
them was contemplated, necessarily there was conferred
a discretion as to time. There was certainly no limitation
of it expressed.
The contending considerations we have already stated
and their respective weights, and decision must necessarily
turn upon a judgment of the purposes of the granting
acts, and in what manner they were intended to be accomplished, not of the provisos alone. There is plausibility in the argument which represents that if the pro-

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES. 433
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

visos be held to give to the railroad a discretion of sale,
the choice of time and settlers, their requirement is impotent, and instead of securing settlement would prevent it; instead of devoting the lands to development,
retain them in monopoly and a kind of mortmain.
We feel the strength of the argument but cannot yield
to it. There are countervailing ones. We have already
indicated that nothing can be deduced from the imperfections of the granting acts. Indeed, the argument of
cross complainants, like a great many other contentions
in the case get their plausibility from the abuses of the
granting acts, not their uses. We have seen that in the
early days of the grants settlements were normally made
and the railroad, in the exercise of its discretion, responded to such settlement by sales to settlers.
There was no embarrassment then in the selection of
settlers and no question by anybody that there was a
discretion of sale on the part of the railroad company.
A denial came later and the assertion of a peremptory
right against the company of settlement and purchase,
both to be acquired by an intrusion upon the company's
possession, if it can be said to have had possession. Of
course, the delay in the assertion of a right is not conclusive against its existence. There is, however, argument
in it, and if it may be said that settlers were not in such
numbers and urgency as to bring their rights to attention and assertion, a conjecture may be engendered that
some other purpose than the acquisition of homes has
led to a denial of rights which no one theretofore had
questioned. It is asserted that not a desire of settlement
but the rise in the price of lumber has created an eager
demand for the lands.
There are, however, further considerations. By the
acts of 1866 and 1870 it is provided that upon the survey
and location of the roads the Government shall withdraw from sale the granted lands; and the provision would
VOL. ccxxxviii-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

seem to withdraw the lands from the specific operation
of the land laws and certainly from a complete analogy
to them. The public land laws had test of the qualification of settlers under them; they had also the machinery
of proof and precaution. When the granted lands were
withdrawn from those laws and primarily devoted to
another purpose they were committed to another power,
to be administered for such purpose, and a discretion in
the exercise of the power, within the restriction imposed,
was necessarily conferred. This purpose we have sufficiently estimated. Nor need we pause to consider the
differences between charitable trusts and other trusts,
the class, not individual interest, which the former must
have, as it is contended, and the certainty in the beneficiaries which the cases have assigned to the latter.
And certainly the words "actual settlers" indicate no
.particular individuals. They describe a class or body
of individuals without habitation or name. As Judge
Wolverton, in his opinion in the District Court (186 Fed.
Rep. 861, 910), said: "There could be no actual settler
until an actual habitation was established upon some
specific parcel of this land. Logically, no one is a cestui
que trust under the theory until and unless he becomes
such a settler. This is a palpable demonstration of the
uncertainty as to the beneficiary, for who, of the vast
concourse of humanity, is going to come and claim the
right and privilege of settling upon the land?" We cannot
construe the grants as confined or encumbered by rights
so indefinite.
There was. a complete and absolute grant to the railroad company with power to sell, limited only as prescribed, and we agree with the Government that the
company "might choose the actual settler; might sell
for any price not exceeding $2.50 an acre; might sell
in quantities of 40, 60, or 100 acres, or any amount not
exceeding 160 acres." And we add, it might choose

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

435

Opinion of the Court.

the time for selling or its use of the grants as a means of
credit, subject ultimately to the restrictions imposed;
and we say "restrictions imposed" to reject the contention of the railroad company that an implication of the
power to mortgage the lands carried a right to sell on
foreclosure divested of the obligations of the provisos.
To use the grant for credit might become, indeed did
become, a necessity. The construction of the road halted
for funds. They were raised by trust deeds, as we have
seen. The accomplishment of the purpose of the grants
determines, we repeat, against the creation of a trust.
In conclusion we cannot refrain from repeating that
the case in its main principles is not in great compass.
It has been given pretension and complexity by the happening of the unforeseen, the lapse of time, change of
conditions and the contests of interests. These, however,
are but accidents, giving perplexity and prolixity to
discussion. Judgment is independent of them. It is
determined by the simple words of the acts of Congress,
not only regarded as grants but as laws and accepted
as both; granting rights but imposing obligations-rights
quite definite, obligations as much so. The first had the
means of acquisition; the second, of performance; and,
as we have pointed out, whatever the difficulties of performance, relief could have been applied for and, it might
be, have been secured through an appeal to Congress.
Certainly evasion -of the laws or the defiance of them
should not have been resorted to.
Nor can their obligation be magnified by looking backwards, by the results achieved rather than when they
were only hoped for, by conditions of which there was
not even prophecy.
We have seen that one company failed under the burdens which it assumed. The other company took it up
and struggled for years under it and its own burden. It
may, indeed, have finally succeeded by a disregard of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

the provisos. It might, however, have succeeded by a
strict observance of them. We are not required to decide
between the suppositions. We can only enforce the provisos as written, not relieve from them.
For the same reason we cannot at the instance of the
Government give a greater sanction to them than Congress intended, nor give to cross complainants and interveners a right which the granting acts did not confer
upon them.
Rejecting, then, the contention of the Government and
the contentions of the cross complainants and interveners
and regarding the settlers clauses as enforceable covenants,
what shall be the judgment? A reversal of the decree of
the District Court, of course, and clearly an injunction
against further violations of the covenants. There certainly should be no repetition of them. What they were
the record exhibits.
We need not comment on them or point out how opposed
they were to the covenants, how antagonistic to the policy
and purpose of the Government expressed in the covenants. The contrast of a sale to a single purchaser of
160 acres (the maximum amount) with a sale of 1000,
2000. 20,000 and 45,000 acres to a single purchaser needs
no emphasis; nor the contrast of a use of the lands to
establish homes with their use for immediate or speculative
enterprises.
In view of such disregard of the covenants, and gain of
illegal emolument, and in view of the Government's
interest in the exact observance of them, it might seem
that restriction upon the future conduct of the railroad
company and its various agencies is imperfect relief; but
the Government has not asked for more.
In its bill it has distinguished between the sold and unsold lands and between the respective rights and interest,
vested, contingent or expectant, in them; and while it is
asserted that all have become forfeited, only the unsold

OREGON & CAL. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
238 U. S.

437

Opinion of the Court.

lands and the rights and interest in them are included in
this suit. And. the. reason is given that the purchasers
were many, the names and places of residence of only a
few of them were known and the names of the others
could not have been ascertained in time to make them
parties to the suit. Besides, that such purchases and
interests were made and acquired under greatly varying
circumstances and that it would be inequitable to make a
few purchasers representatives of all, and to make all
parties would postpone and might ultimately defeat the
public interests. That, therefore, this suit was brought,
it is alleged, to determine the rights and remedies as to the
unsold lands and that subsequently other suits will be
instituted as to the sold lands, rights and remedies as to
them being in effect reserved.
Therefore, the decree in this suit shall be without prejudice to any other suits, rights or remedies which the
Government may have by law or under the joint resolution
of April 30, 1908 (Res. 18, 35 Stat. 571), or under the act
of Congress passed August 20, 1912 (c. 311, 37 Stat. 320).
However, an injunction simply against future violations
of the covenants, or, to put it-another way, simply mandatory of their requirements, will not afford the measure of
relief to which the facts of the case entitle the Government.
The Government alleged in its bill that more than
1000 persons had made application to purchase from the
railroad company in conformity to the covenants. In
answering the defendants averred that such applications
were made by persons who desired to obtain title on account of the timber and not otherwise, and for the purpose
of speculation only and not in good faith as actual settlers.
And it was averred that the lands were chiefly and in most
instances solely of value because of the timber thereon and
were not fit for actual settlement. . And, further, that the
lands capable of actual settlement and the establishment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

homes thereon at no time "exceeded (approximately)
300,000 acres, consisting of small and widely separated
tracts, all of which were sold to actual settlers or persons
claiming to be such during construction and prior to
completion, respectively, of said railroads, in quantities of
160 acres or less to a single purchaser, at prices not exceeding $2.50 per acre."
A great deal of testimony was introduced, consisting
not only of that of witnesses but of maps, photographs,
reports and publications, which tended to establish the
asserted character of the lands. And there was evidence
in rebuttal. We cannot pause to determine the relative
probative force of the opposing testimonies. It is, however, clear, even from the Government's summary of the
evidence, that lands which may be fit for cultivation have
a greater value on account of the timber which is upon
them. Besides, for our present purpose we may accept
the assertion of defendants; and we have seen that Congress extended the Timber and Stone Act to the reserved
lands, and, by the act of August 20, 1912, supra, it has
withdrawn from entry or the initiation of any right whatever under any of the public land laws of the United States
the lands which might revert to the United States by reason
of this suit.
This, then, being the situation resulting from conditions
now existing, incident, it may be, to the prolonged disregard of the covenants by the railroad company, the lands
invite now more to speculation than to settlement, and we
think, therefore, that the railroad company should not
only be enjoined from sales in violation of the covenants,
but enjoined from any disposition of them whatever or of
the timber thereon and from cutting or authorizing the
cutting or removal of any of the timber thereon, until
Congress shall have a reasonable opportunity to provide
by legislation for their disposition in accordance with
such policy as it may deem fitting under the circumstances

DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R. v. YURKONIS.
238 U. S.

439

Syllabus.

and at the same time secure to the defendants all the value
the granting acts conferred upon the railroads.
If Congress does not make such provision the defendants
may apply to the District Court within a reasonable time,
not less than six months, from the entry of the decree
herein, for a modification of so much of the injunction
herein ordered as enjoins any disposition of the lands and
timber until Congress shall act, and the court in its discretion may modify the decree accordingly.
Decree reversed and cause remanded to the District Court
for further proceedingsin accordance with this opinion.
MR. JusTIcE MCREYNOLDS took no part in

the con-

sideration and decision of the case.

DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA & WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. YURKONIS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 852.

Submitted May 3, 1915.-Decided June 21, 1915.

Plaintiff sued railroad company for personal injuries in the state court
and defendant removed the case to the Federal court on ground of
diverse citizenship; more than two years after the cause of action
arose plaintiff amended his complaint setting up that he was engaged
in mining coal to be sent out of the State and that he could recover
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act; on the trial defendant
moved to dismiss on the ground that under that act the two year
statute applied and plaintiff thereupon moved to amend by striking
out allegations as to interstate commerce which the court denied and
the case was submitted to the jury on the issues joined under the
common law and the state statute. There was a verdict for the

