DES MOINES GAS CO. v. DES MOINES.
238 U. S.

Syllabus.

DES MOINES GAS COMPANY v. CITY OF DES
MOINES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.

No. 75. Argued November 10, 11, 1914.-Decided June 14, 1915.
The public authority is presumed to have acted fairly, and the burden
of proof is on a public utility corporation to show that a regulating
ordinance has the effect to deprive it of an income equivalent to a
fair return upon its property dedicated to public use. Knoxville v.
Water Co., 212 U. S. 1.
Good will, in the sense generally used as indicating that element of
value which inheres in the fixed and favorable consideration of
customers arising from an established and well known and well conducted business, has no place in the fixing of valuation for the purpose of rate making of public service corporations. Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19.
There is, in some cases, a "going concern value" which is an element
to be considered in determining valuation on which the owner is
entitled to a fair return although the property is dedicated to a
public use; there is no fixed rule for ascertaining this but each case
must be controlled by its own circumstances.
Where, as in this case, the Master after exhaustive testimony certifies
the value of a long established and successful public service plant, for
rate making purposes,, upon the basis of.a plant in successful operation and overhead charges have been allowed, the court will presume
that the element of going concern value has been considered and
included in the total value certified.
The court will not regard the refusal of the lower court to enjoin a rate
making ordinance as confiscatory upon the conclusion that it allowed
a return of six per.cent per annum, on the valuation of the plant,
although the .Master expressed the opinion that the corporation
ought to earn eight per cent, where) as in this case, the ordinance was
attacked before opportunity to test its results by actual experience.
Ordinarily, time alone can satisfactorily demonstrate whether a rate
fixed by ordinance is or is not confiscatory so as to amount to a taking
of property without due process of law within the meaning of the

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

238 U. S.

Fourteenth Amendment, and in this case there should be an actual
application of the rates.
Following the rule laid down in Knoville v. Water Co., 212 U. S. 1,
and Willcox v. Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, the bill seeking to enjoin the
putting of. the ordinance involved in this case into effect should be
dismissed without prejudice to the right of complainant to reinstate
the case after a reasonable period for an actual demonstration of the
effect of the ordinance.
199 Fed. Rep. 204, modified and affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity under the impairment of obligation provision of, and the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment to, the Federal Constitution
of an ordinance o the City of Des Moines fixing ninety cents
as the price of gas in that city, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Nathaniel T. Guernsey, with whom Mr. George H.
Carr was on the brief, for appellant:
At the time in question the City of Des Moines had
the power to establish reasonable rates to be charged by
appellant for gas sold and distributed in the city. Code
of Iowa, 1897, Supp., §§ 724, 725.
Rates so established must be sufficient to afford to the
appellant a fair return upon the value of its property, i. e.,
a return relatively equal to what money devoted to other
like investments will earn. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 352, 434; Smyth v. Ames, 171 U. S. 361; San Diego
Land Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 739; San Diego Land
Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439; Stanislaus County v. San
Joaquin Co., 192 U. S. 201; Knoxville v. Water Co., 212
U. S. 1; Willcox v. Gas Co., 212 U.. S. 19.
The value to be ascertained is the fair value of the property used in performing the public service.
Appellant was bound to establish each ultimate fact
necessary to sustain a decree in its favor by clear and
satisfactory evidence, but not beyond reasonable doubt,
Depreciated cost of reproduction should not have been
deducted. Willeox v. Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; S. C., below,

DES MOINES GAS CO. v. DES MOINES.
238 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

157 Fed. Rep. 849; Omaha v. Water Co., 218 U. S. 180;
Steenerson v. Great Northern Ry., 69 Miniesota, 353; State
v. Minn. & St. L. R. R., 80 Minnesota, 191; Cotting v.
Kansas City Stock Yards, 82 Fed. Rep. 850, 854; Kings
County Lighting Co. v. Willcox, 156 App. Div. (N. Y.) 603.
Cedar Rapids Gas Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 144 Iowa, 426,
does not hold the contrary.
The court erred in its conclusion that the total of
$2,240,928 was stated by the master as the value of the
plant, and in the conclusion that this included the item
of $300,000 on account of going value.
The item of going value is an element contributing to
the value of each tangible part. Omaha v. Water Co.,
218 U. S. 180.
The Cedar Rapids Case, supra, did not hold that this
item should be disallowed.
Going value is an element in the value of such a property. National Water Works v. Kansas City, 62 Fed. Rep.
853; Omaha v. Water Co., 218 U. S. 180; Public Service
Gas Co. v. Utility Commissioners, 87 Atl. Rep. 651; Kings
County Lighting Co. v. Willcox, 156 App. Div. (N. Y.) 603;
Monongahela Water Case, 223 Pa. St. 323; Appleton Water
Works v. Wisconsin, 142 N. W. Rep. 476; Gloucester Water
Co. v. Gloucester, 179 Massachusetts, 365; Norwich Gas
Co. v. Norwich, 76'Connecticut, 565; Spring Valley Water
Works v. San Francisco, 124 Fed. Rep. 574; S.C., 165 Fed.
Rep. 657; and 192 Fed. Rep. .137; Kennebec Water District v. Waterville, 97 Maine, 185; Water Co. v. Galena, 74
Kansas, 644; Bristol v. Water Works, 23 R. I. 274; Water
Co. v. Newburyport, 168 Massachusetts, 541; Venner v.
Urbana Water Co., 174 Fed. Rep. 348; Bonbright v. Geary,
210 Fed. Rep. 44.
The rule is the same in rate cases and condemnation
cases. Omaha v. Water Co., 218 U. S.203.
The word "property" describing what is protected in
condemnation cases involving the Fifth Amendment, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

238 U. S.

in confiscation cases involving the Fourteenth Amendment, means the same thing in each Amendment. Willcox
v. Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; Monongahela Navigation Co. v.
United States, 148 U. S. 312; Fairbanks v. United States,
181 U. S. 283; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352.
As to what is a fair return and for the distinction between a reasonable rate and a fair return, see Public Sertice Gas Co. v. Utility Commissioners, 87 Atl. Rep. 65.1.
It will vary under varying conditions. Willcox v. Gas
Co., 212 U. S.19, 48.
What it is, is a question of fact, to be determined by the
testimony in each case. Gas Light Co. v. Cedar Rapids,
144 Iowa, 426, 448.
Under the rule in the Consolidated Gas Case,, 8% was
justified by the evidence in this case. A public utility
must constantly increase its investment and must pay for
the new money required whatever such money is worth
in the market.
Upon the facts found, the complainant was entitled to
a decree in its favor.
In making his estimates, the master took into account
normal increase in its sales, while the history of the plant
demonstrates that increases in sales in amounts sufficie W
to earn a fair return would have been impossible.
To sell gas there must be persons to buy it.
The population was insufficient to afford a market fdr
the gas necessary to earn a fair return.
The plant had not the capacity to manufacture eiough
gas to afford a fair return.
A large additional investment would have been tequired,
increasing the amount upon which the retum must be
earned
Computations predicated upon the factS found by the
Master demonstrate that upon no reas~fiable hypothesis
could a fair return be anticipated.
The clear and satisfactory evidence-rule simply requires

DES MOINES GAS CO. v. DES MOINES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that where facts have been established by testimony of
this character, the rule may not be invoked to discredit
sound and legitimate inferences from them. These facts
may be established without evidence deduced from a trial
of the rates. Willcox v. Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; Gas Co.
v. Lincoln, 223 U. S. 349.
The court erred in dismissing the bill upon the merits
and then in attempting to provide for a reopening of the
case after three years. Bronson v. Schulten, 104 U. S. 410.
So far. as the appellant is concerned if it is not entitled
to a decree in its favor upon the merits, it is entitled to an
opportunity to try the rates and to definitely establish
the facts upon which the rights of the parties depend.
Stanislaus County v. San Joaquin, 192 U. S. 201; KnoxVille v. Water Co., 212 U. S. 1; Willcox v. Gas Co., 212
U. S. 19; Gas Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S. 655; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Missouri Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 474; In re Louisville, 231 U. S. 639; Louisville v.
Cumberland Tel. Co., 231 U. S. 652; Nor. Pac. Ry. v.
North Dakota, 216 U. S. 579.
Mr. H. W. Byers, with whom Mr. R. 0. Brennan and
Mr. Eskil C. Carlson were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was begun in the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Iowa, by the present
appellant, hereinafter called the Gas Company, against
the City of Des Moines and otheis, to enjoin the enforcement of -the provisions of a certain ordinance of the City,
passed December 27, 1910, whereby, from and after the
first day of January, 1911, the rate to be charged and
collected for gas in the City of Des Moines was fixed at
ninety cents for each thousand cubic feet. The allegations
of the bill were that to enforce the ordinance would amount

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

to the taking of the Gas Company's property without
just compensation and operate as confiscation of its property, and thereby deprive it of the same without due
process of' law, and would deny the equal protection of
the laws; further, that it would impair the existing contract between the Gas Company and the City, and between the Gas Company and the State of Iowa, growing
out of its incorporation under the statutes of the State
and of the ordinances of the City, giving rights to the
Gas Company to lay its mains and supply gas to the residents of the City. A temporary injunction was allowed,
and after issue made, the case was referred to Robert
Sloan, Esquire, as Special Master in chancery to report
his findings of fact and conclusions of law. The Master
afterwards filed his report, and the same coming on before
the District Court for hearing, upon exceptions, the report
of the Master was confirmed, and the bill dismissed "with
prejudice" (199 Fed. Rep. 204). From that decree the
present appeal is taken.
The Master's report, as court and counsel agree, gives
evidence of a very thorough consideration of the subject,
and the facts found are accepted by the appellant. From
the report we learn that the plant belonging to the Gas
Company dates back to the year 1864; that it was owned
and operated by the Capital City Gas Light Company until
March 1st, 1906, when the present company was organized
and the property, real and personal, of the Capital City
Company conveyed to it; that The United Gas Improvement Company, of Philadelphia, became the owner of the
entire stock of the Capital City Company on June 1st,
1886; that the capital stock then consisted of 3,000 shares
of the par value of one hundred dollars each, and 'that
subsequently the capitai stock was increased to 6,000
shares of the same value each; that the growth of the City
of Des Moines increased the demand for gas, and many
extensions were added. In making these improvements

DES MOINES GAS CO. v. DES MOINES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and extensions, the Capital City Gas Light Company became indebted to The United Gas Improvement Company
for cash advanced, and otherwise, to the amount of
$105,526.49, and also for gas holder $103,958 and the
United Gas Improvement Company also owned $400,000
of bonds secured by mortgage on the plant of the Capital
City Company. On March 1st, 1906, the Capital City
Company transferred and conveyed its property to the
present Gas Company, the authorized capital stock of the
new company being 22,500 shares of the pax value of $100
each. At the time of this transfer, the new company
executed to The United Gas Improvement Company
$800,000 stock contracts bearing 6 per cent. interest until
paid, and also authorized and executed to the Commercial
Trust Company, of Philadelphia, Pa., a deed of trust to
all property of the Des Moines Gas Company, transferred
to -it as aforesaid to secure the payment of $1,500,000 5
per cent. gold bonds payable semi-annually, which were
to be issued as provided by said mortgage. The sum of
$240,000 bonds were issued at the date of execution of the
mortgage, one-half thereof used in payment of the debt
due The United Gas Improvement Company for the gas
holder, and the other half to pay the amount due on account to that company. On January 1st, 1907, there were
also issued $400,000 of these bonds to pay the bonds then
due of the Capital City Company. When the transfer was
made $45,000 was issued to pay for the Valley Junction
property. This is a town adjacent to Des Moines, and
something like six miles from the gas works of the Gas
Company, to which the gas is transmitted by high pressure mains through the city, by a distribution system
therein. There is nothing in the record to show the value
of the Valley Junction property, except that of a high
pressure main, which is also used in distributing gas in
the city. Extensions and improvements have been made
to the works and distribution system since the date of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

transfer up to the first day of January, 1911, to the amount
of $412,704.51, and, as provided by the mortgage, bonds
have been issued by the trustee to the amount of
$1,097,000, and these bonds have all been purchased by
The United Gas Improvement Company. The total discount on these bonds is $33,950; $267,000 discounted at
10 per cent. and the balance, $145;000, at 5 per cent.
No dividends have been declared by the present company
upon its stock, but the interest upon the stock contracts
and bonds has been regularly paid, and $389,000 has been
paid on the principal of the stock contracts, leaving Janl
uary 1, 1911, only $411,000 unpaid. These payments
have been made out of the profits derived from the operation of the plant. The officers of the Gas Company are
elected by the United Gas Improvement Company, who
own and control all the stock, and these officers are also,
in the main, the officers of the United Gas Improvement
Company, and the latter controls the Gas Company and
its business.
Various ordinances have been passed, regulati Lg the
price of gas, from which the Master finds as follows:
"1. That for the years 1896 and 7 the price of gas should
be $1.30 per M. C. F. net; for the years 1898 and 9, $1.25
net; for the years 1900 and 1, $1.20 net; for the years 1902,
3 aAd 4, $1.15 net; and for the year 1905, $1.10 net; and
for the years 1906 to 1910, $1.00 net with the proviso
that it may add 10 cents per M. C. F. to each of these
prices but shall be required to discount that sum for the
payment by or before the 15th day of the month following that in which the gas was consumed.
"2. That the City pay for the term of fifteen years for
each street lamp, $18.00 per year, until they should reach
500, when it should be reduced to $17.00 for each lamp.
"3. That its gas should not be less than 22 candle
power."
-There is no question of the authority of the City of

DIES MOINES GAS CO. v. DES MOINES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Des Moines, under the laws of the State, to regulate the
rates at which gas shall be furnished to the City of Des
Moines and its inhabitants. After valuing the real estate
and various items of personal property as hereinafter
stated, the Master adopted as the only practical way in
his judgment of determining the reasonable value of the
buildings, their contents, the yard structures and the
mains, house and street lamp services and meters, the
process of estimating the cost of reproducing them new,
and then estimating the depreciation which should be
deducted, in order to obtain their present value. Under
this method, the Master summed up the value of the
property of the Gas Company as follows:
"The new ordinance deprives the complainant of the
right to add ten cents per M. C. F. to the price of gas,
unless paid on or before the 15th day of the month following that in which the gas was consumed, and the evidence shows that the average working capital for the past
five years was $120,000, and that when the ordinance
went into effect, that they were then using $142,000 as
working capital.
"Without the means of enforcing prompt payment, and
without any inducement so to do, on the part of their customers, in my judgment the working capital should not
be diminished, and the amount allowed is ... $ 140,000

150,000
To this add real estate .....................
6,923
To organization expenses ..................
6,603
To meters in stock......................
Present value of physical property aside from
above items......................... 1,937,402
$2,240,928"
"Total physical value ................
What is called in this summary "the present value of
physical property," the report shows was arrived at by
the Master in the manner following: He first found what
he thought was the base value of the property, i. e,, "what
voL. ccxxxvI-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

it would cost to produce it at the present time new, without adding thereto any overhead charges." This figure
he fixed at $1,975,026. To this he added overhead charges,
fifteen per cent.,-296,254. From this he deducted depreciation, $333,878, leaving as the value of the property
thus ascertained, $1,937,402.
As appears from the opinion of the court and the arguments of counsel in this case, exceptions to the Master's
report so far as the Gas Company is concerned pertain
principally to two questions: One as to his manner of
dealing with what is termed the "going value" of the concern, and the other as to the addition of the sum of
$140,000 to the valuation, because appellant insists, upon
the plan of valuation by cost of reproduction less depreciation, it would cost that sum to take up and replace pavements not laid when the mains were put in but necessary
to be removed and replaced in the reproduction thereof.
. Before considering the correctness of the rulings
of the
Master and their confirmation by the District Court, it
is proper to notice that there is considerable difference
between counsel as to what the Master actually found,
as to whether he included the sum of $300,000 which he
was disposed to allow for going value in the $2,240,000
valuation found by him, or whether it was added to the
estimate of the value of the property already made by him.
We think the Master intended to value the property at
$2,240,000 exclusive of the $300,000 which, as we have
said, he was at first disposed to allow for going value, and
also that he deducted, in reaching the $2,100,000 the
$140,000 claimed by the Gas Company as a proper allowance because of the cost of removing and replacing pavements, as above stated. We think too, that it was the
Master's conclusion that, if the $300,000, which he was at
first disposed to allow, as stated, or the $140,000 for
paving, were included, the valuation of the plant would be
such that a fair return could not be made upon the value

DES MOINES GAS CO. v. DES MOINES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the property, and therefore the Company would be
entitled to a decree in its favor. It therefore follows that
the determination of the correctness of the decree below,
confirming the Master's report, depends upon and requires
a consideration of these two items.
We mhy premise that the public authority is presumed
to have acted fairly, and that the burden of proof is upon
the Gas Company to show that the regulating ordinance
has the effect to deprive it of an income equivalent to a
fair return upon its property dedicated to public use.
Knoxville v. Knoxville WaWr Co., 212 U. S. 1.
As we have said, the Master was at first disposed to
allow $300,000 as a separate item covering the going value
of the concern. After stating that he fixed the going value
at the sum of $300,000 he says:
"It may be asked on what basis this amount is determined. The evidence followed strictly might require me
to make it higher, could my mind rest satisfied that the
'Going Value' of this concern is worth more, but I cannot
feel satisfied that such is the case, and regard $300,000 as
every dollar it is worth over and above its physical value,
and in my judgment, it is worth that much more than a
plant would be that had' to develop its business. But that
would be much more rapid, in my judgment, than is
estimated. I think a purchaser would be willing to add
this amount for its developed business, and that a seller
would not be willing to sell unless he got that much more
than its physical value, but I could not give the mental
process by which this conclusion is reached any more than
a jury could do so, under like circumastances, but it is
nevertheless my judgment under all the evidence in the
case.
"The element of 'Good Will' as applied to the ordinary
merchant or manufacturer dealing with the public generally is not considered in estimating the 'Going Value'
of Complainant's plant. It cannot be considered in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

public utility like the one in question in this case, because
the Complainant has a monopoly of the business in which
it is engaged in the City of Des Moines, and those who
desire to use its product must buy of it. They have no
choice in the matter. But there is a great difference even
in a monopoly which has a business already developed and
one that must develop it. The plant of Complainant has
all its parts working in harmony, performing their several
functions in producing and conveying the gas to its customers. These several parts are not only in place, but
have been brought to a harmonious operation throughout.
Even the employ~s of the concern are familiar with their
duties and experienced in performing them. But without
business no matter how perfect it may be, it would be unprofitable. It is ready, however, for business, and has
the business to transact. It was a small concern at the
start in 1864, but its books show that it has had a steady
growth for many years in the past, and everything indicates that it will continue in the future. There is great
difference between such a plant and one whose business
must be developed. All a purchaser of such a plant would
have to do would be to take charge of the plant, 'Touch
the button,' and he is making money from the start.
There is no element of uncertainty connected with it.
"He can retain its experienced employ~s as a rule,
should he so desire, at the same wages. There is no question that such a plant has a 'Going Value,' because it is
a money maker from the start.
"The only difficulty is to determine how much its 'going
value' is worth. No interest during its construction is
allowed, nor anything that is included in the 'Overhead
Charges,' which are part of the physical value. But
simply the fact that it has a developed business that will
make money for its owner, with reasonable rates allowed
for the product which it manufactures and sells."
That "good will," in the sense in which that term is

DES MOINES GAS CO. v. DES MOINES.

238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

generally used as indicating that element of value which
inheres in the fixed and favorable consideration of customers, arising from an established and well-known and
well-conducted business, has no place in the fixing of valuation for the purpose of rate-making of public service cor:
porations of this character, was established in Willcox v.
Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 52. "Going value," or
"going concern value," i. e., the value which inheres in a
plant where its business is established, as distinguished
from one which has yet to establish its business has been
the subject of much discussion in rate-making cases before
the courts and commissions. Many of those cases are collected in Whitten on "Valuation of Public Service Corporations," §§ 550-569, and the supplement to the same
work, §§ 1350-1385. That there is an element of value in
an assembled and established plant, doing business and
earning money, over one not thus advanced, is self-evident.
This element of value is a property right, and should be
considered in determining the value of the property, upon
which the owner has a right to make a fair return when the
same is privately owned although dedicated to public use.
Each case must be controlled by its own circumstances, and
the actual-question here is: In view of the faets found, and
the method of valuation used by him, did the Master
sufficiently include this element in determining the value
of the property of this Company for rate-making purposes?.
Included in going value as usually reckoned is the investment necessary to organizing and establishing the business
which is not embraced in the value of its actual physical
property. In this case, what may be called the inception
cost of the enterprise entering into the establishing of~a
going concern had long since been incurred. The present
company and its predecessors had long carried on business
in the City of Des Moines, under other ordinances, and
at higher rates than the ordinance in question established.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court:

238 U. S.

For aught that appears in this record, these expenses may
have been already compensated in rates charged and
collected under former ordinances. As we have said, every
presumption is in favor of the legitimate exercise of the
rate-making power, and it is not to be presumed, without
proof, that a Company is under the necessity of making
up losses and expenditures incidental to the experimental
stage of its business.
These items of expense in development are often called
overhead charges, for which, as we have already seen, the
Master allowed fifteen per cent. upon the base value
(exclusive of real estate), or $296,254, in addition to his
allowance of $6,923 for organization expenses. Of these
charges the Master said:
"In reaching the physical value of the plant in question
by the process of reproduction, it is necessary to bear in
mind that the present value thereof represents much more
than the machinery therein, the labor of installing and
constructing them, and putting them in place to perform
their various functions, ready for the manufacture and
distribution of gas to its customers. Were the City of
Des Moines without such a plant, and such a one as the
Complainant now owns was proposed, it would be found
that much more than the mere cost of labor and material
would be expended. Such expenditures are termed overhead charges, and are as follows:
"1. Time and money expended in the promotion of the
enterprise, in the organization of the company and interesting capital therein, including, also, legal expenses, obtaining the necessary franchise, as well as the costs of incorporating the company.
"2. Then a competent engineer must be employed to
prepare the plans and specifications for the plant, and
make the necessary surveys, and when the work began, to
superintend the construction thereof, and see that it is
done properly and according to plans and specifications.

DES MOINES GAS CO. v. DES MOINES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The successful operation of the plant depends largely
upon its proper construction.
"3. Then losses arising from accidents and injuries to
workmen as well as the material during its construction,
which is such an amount as the cost of insuring against
such losses, which is between 1 and 2 per cent.
"4. Contingencies are such expenditures as arise from
the lack of foresight and care in preparing the plans and
specifications. No matter how careful the engineer may.
prepare them, such expenditures invariably arise. Mr.
Alvord testified that his allowance therefor would depend
very much upon his knowledge of the engineer who prepared them, but that no matter who prepared them, they
would invariably occur, and an allowance should be made
therefor. The careful and thorough inventory in this case
reduces very greatly the allowance therefor.
"5. The cost of administration, which includes the time
and money expended by the parties who are engaged in
the enterprise, purchasing the material, procuring the
money for their payment as needed, and generally superintending the entire enterprise during the construction
of the plant.
"6. It is estimated that it would take three years to
complete the plant in question, and that at least one-half
the time and money invested therein would give no return,
and that a loss of interest would result therefrom and that
such loss would be included in the overhead chargeS.
"7. Taxes during the construction.
"The latter is regarded by me as very questionable. It
is in a certain sense making taxes an asset rather than a
liability, and the amount is so vague and uncertain that it
has been given very little consideration and weight in
fixing the overhead charges. Either the money or the
property should pay taxes.
"It must be borne in mind that these expenditures are
all made during the promotion and construction of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

plant, and are necessarily a part of the cost thereof. No
overhead charges that do not inhere in and add to the cost
thereof, should be allowed as a part of its physical value.
It is not a question of what was actually expended therefor
in the plant in question, but what would it cost to reproduce a similar plant at the present time. It is through this
method we reach the present value of this plant new, and
then when it is properly depreciated, according to the
condition, life and age of its various parts, we reach the
present value of the plant in its present condition. It is
not a perfect method, but it is the best method therefor,
and results as nearly as possible in giving the present value
of the plant. No other method known has proved so
satisfactory."
The matter of going value was alluded to in Knoxville
v. Water Co., 212 U. S. 1. In that case, $10,000 was allowed for organization, promotion, etc., and $60,000 for
"going concern." ' Of the latter item this court said
(page 9): "The latter sum we understand to be an expression of the added value of the plant as a whole over
the sum of the values of its component parts, which is
attached to it because it is in active and successful operation and earning a return. We express no opinion as to
the propriety of including these two items in the valuation of the plant, for the purpose for which it is valued
in this case, but leave that question to be considered when
it necessarily arises. We assume, without deciding, that
these items were properly added in this case."
The question was presented in Gas Co. v. Cedar Rapids,
223 U. S. 655. That case was a writ of error to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa, holding valid a certain ordinance regulating the price of gas in Cedar Rapids
(144 Iowa, 426), and the judgment of the Iowa court was
affirmed. Dealing with the question of "going value,"
the Iowa Supreme Court said:
"Also the sum of $100,000 was included by these wit-

DES MOINES GAS CO. v. DES MOINES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nesses as enhancement of value by reason of being a
'going concern.' As previously intimated, the value of
the plant is to be estimated in its entirety, rather than by
the addition of estimates on its component parts, though
the latter course will materially aid in determining the
value. Advantages have accrued through the sagacity
of its management as contended by appellant. So, too,
there are the inevitable mistakes which would not be
likely in the construction of a new plant; but to put a new
plant in profitable operation time would be required, and,
aside from the intangible element of good will, the fact
that the plant is in successful operation constitutes an
element of value.
"As said, the value of the system as completed, earning
a present income, is the criterion. In so far as influenced
by income, however, the computation necessarily must be
made on the basis of reasonable charges, for whatever is
exacted for a public service in excess of this is to be regarded as unlawful.
"Save as above indicated, the element of value designated a 'going concern' is but another name for 'good
will,' which is not to be taken into account in a case like
this, where the company is granted a monopoly. Water
Company v. Cedar Rapids, 118 Iowa, 234; Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 29 Sup. Ct. 192. The witnesses for
plaintiff took into account 'good will' in giving their opinion of the enhancement in value because of being a going
concern, and we have no means of separating these so as
to ascertain their estimate of the separate advantage of
completion so as to earn a present income."
Dealing with the assignment of error which attacked the
correctness of the ruling of the Iowa court upon this point,
this court said-(page 669):
"Then again, although it is argued that the court excluded 'going value,' the court expressly took into account
the fact that the plant was in successful operation. What

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

it excluded was the good will or advantage incident to
the possession of a monopoly, so far as that might be supposed to give the plaintiff the power to charge more than
a reasonable price. Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212
U. S. 19, 52. An adjustment of this sort'under a power
to regulate rates has to steer between Scylla and Charybdis. On the one side if the franchise is taken to mean that
the most profitable return that could be got, free from
competition, is protected by the Fourteenth Amendment,
then the power to regulate is null. On the other hand, if
the power to regulate withdraws the protection of the
Amendment altogether, then the property is naught. This
is not a matter of economic theory, but of fair interpretation of a bargain. Neither extreme can have been meant.
A midway between them must be hit."
As we have already said, the Master, while at first disposed to allow the additional sum of $300,000 for "going
value" as a separate item, after the decision of this court
in the CedarRapids Case seems to have reached a different
conclusion, for he said of, that case:
" .
it also renders it extremely doubtful that
'Going Value' will be included in the valuation of such
a plant as the basis of return, beyond the fact that it is
in 'successful operation.' That would exclude the sum
of $300,000 estimated in this case, on the grounds that
when the ordinance was enacted, it already possessed -a
well developed and paying business.
"In my judgment, after considering the able and thorough arguments of counsel, that it is decisive of the question, and holds that 'going value' should not be considered in deterinining the basis upon which the complainant
is entitled to have its return reckoned, and feel that it is
-my duty to so state.
"The physical value as hereinbefore determined, is
reckoned upon the fact that the plant was in 'successful
operation' when the ordinance was enacted, otherwise its

DES MOINES GAS CO. v. DES MOINES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

value would be much less. The 'going value' is that enhancement which results from a well developed and paying business. This would result in reducing the estimated
deficit for each. year $24,000, and yield a return to the
Complainant of, at least, 6 per cent. on $2,100,000.
"While this case is close to the border line, I cannot say
on the whole case that the evidence beyond any just and
fair doubt, satisfies me that, the rates will prove confiscatory, should the Qrdinance be put into effect and an actual
test thereof be made."
While there is a difference between court and counsel
as to what the Master meant by this, we think it is apparent that he meant to say that, applying the rule of the
Cedar Rapids Case, he had already valued the property
in the estimate of what he called its physical value, upon
the basis of a plant in actual and successful operation; for
he said that otherwise its value would be much less.
As pointed out in the Cedar Rapids Cabe, if return is to
be regarded beyond that compensation which E public
service corporation is entitled to earn upon the fair value
of its property, the right to regulate is of no moment, -and
income to which the corporation is not entitled would become the basis of valuation in determining the rights of
the public. When, as here, a long established and successful plant of this character is valued for rate-making
purposes, and the value of the property fixed as the Master
certifies upon the basis of a plant in successful operation,
and overhead charges have been allowed for the items
and in the sums already stated, it cannot be said, in view
of the facts in this case, that the element of going value
has not been given the consideration it deserves and the
appellant's contention in this behalf is not sustained.
As to the item of $140,000, which, it is contended,
should be added to the xaluation, because of the fact that
the Master valued the .property on the basis. of the cost
of reproduction new, less depreciation, and it would be

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

necessary in such reproduction to take up and replace
pavements on streets which were unpaved when the gas
'mains were laid, in order to replace the mains, we are of
opinion that the court below correctly disposed of this
question. These pavements were already in place. It
may be conceded that they would require removal at the
time when it became necessary to reproduce the plant in
this respect. The Master reached the conclusion that the
life of the mains would not be enhanced by the necessity
of removing the pavements, and that the Company had
no right of property in the pavements thus dealt with,
and that there was neither justice nor equity in requiring
the people who had been at the expense of paving the
streets to pay an additional sum for gas because the plant,
when put in, would have to be at the expense of taking up
and replacing the pavements in building the same. He
held that such added value was wholly theoretical, when
no benefit was derived therefrom. We find no error in this
disposition of the question.
Nor do we think there was error in refusing an injunction upon the conclusion reached that a return of 6 per
cent. per annum on the valuation would not be confiscatory. This is especially true in view of the fact that the
ordinance was attacked before there was opportunity to
test its results by actual experience. It is true the Master
reported that in his opinion the Company ought to earn
8.per cent., but he also found that in his judgment gas
could be produced for 60 cents per thousand, and the
actual effect of the 90 cent rate on an economically managed plant had not had the test of experience.
The decree of the court below is peculiar in that it directs the dismissal of the bill "with prejudice," and adds,
"At any time on and after three years from this date complainant, its successor or assigns, may on motion reinstate
this case with all the pleadings and evidence now on file,
with the same and like effect as though filed for such sub-

DES MOINES GAS CO. v. DES MOINES.
238 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sequent hearing. And each party may then file such additional pleadings and take and file such additional evidence as to each party may be deemed advisable."
While we agree with the court below that it was right
to confirm the Master's report and dismiss the bill, we
think, in view of the fact that the attack upon the rates
was made before the ordinance went into effect, and before
actual application of the rates could demonstrate whether
they were remunerative or not, that the court should have
followed the recommendation of the Master and dismissed
the bill without prejudice. We think this is particularly
so, in view of the fact that ordinarily time alone can
satisfactorily demonstrate in a case like this whether or
not the rates established will prove so unremunerative
as to be confiscatory in the sense in which that term has
been defined in rate making cases. The Master's suggestion has the support of the judgment of this court in
Knoxville v. Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, and Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S.19.
With the modification that the bill be dismissed without
prejudice, instead of, as the court below directed, with
prejudice, the decree is affirmed, with costs.
Affirmed.

