OCTOBER TERM, 1998
Per Curiam

WHITFIELD v. TEXAS
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO PROCEED IN FORMA PAUPERIS
No. 98-9085. Decided June 24, 1999*
Pro se petitioner seeks leave to proceed in forma pauperis on this
certiorari petition. The instant petition brings his total number of
frivolous fiings to nine.
Held: Petitioner's motion to proceed in forma pauperisis denied. He is
barred from filing any further petitions for certiorari or extraordinary
writs in noncriminal cases unless he first pays the docketing fee and
submits his petition in compliance with this Court's Rule 33.1. See
Martin v. Districtof Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1.
Motions denied.
PER CURIAM.

Pro se petitioner Whitfield seeks leave to proceed in
forma pauperis under Rule 39 of this Court. We deny this
request as frivolous pursuant to Rule 39.8. Whitfield is
allowed until July 15, 1999, within which to pay the docketing fee required by Rule 38 and to submit his petition in
compliance with this Court's Rule 33.1. We also direct the
Clerk not to accept any further petitions for certiorari or
petitions for extraordinary writs from Whitfield in noncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing fee required
by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance with
Rule 33.1.
Whitfield has repeatedly abused this Court's certiorari and
extraordinary writ processes. On March 30, 1998, we invoked Rule 39.8 to deny Whitfield informa pauperis status
with respect to a petition for certiorari. See Whitfield v.
Johnson, 523 U. S. 1044. At that time, Whitfield had filed
three petitions for certiorari and three petitions for extraor*Together with Whitfield v. Texas (see this Court's Rule 12.4) and Whitfield v. Texas (see this Court's Rule 12.4), also on motions for leave to
proceed informa pauperis.

WHITFIELD v. TEXAS
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

dinary writs, all of which were both patently frivolous and
had been denied without recorded dissent. He thereafter
fied another patently frivolous petition for certiorari, which
we denied. The instant petition for certiorari thus brings
Whitfield's total number of frivolous filings to nine.
We enter the order barring prospective filings for the
reasons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court
ofAppeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (percuriam). Whitfield's abuse
of the writ of certiorari and of the extraordinary writs has
been in noncriminal cases, and we limit our sanction accordingly. The order therefore will not prevent Whitfield from
petitioning to challenge criminal sanctions which might be
imposed on him. The order will, however, allow this Court
to devote its limited resources to the claims of petitioners
who have not abused our processes.
It is so ordered.
dissenting.
For reasons previously stated, see Cross v. Pelican Bay
State Prison,526 U. S. 811, 812 (1999) (STEVENS, J., dissenting); Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506
U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (STEVENS, J., dissenting), and cases cited, I
respectfully dissent.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

