Oct. 1873.]

THE MAYOR v. LINDSEY.
Statement of the case.

This draft Perry transferred to the Oneida Bank, who
brought suit upon it. It was held, assuming this draft to
be void, that the party making the contract could reject ,the
security and recover the money or value which lie advanced
on receiving it. It was held further, that the right of action
to recover this money passed to the Oneida Bank upon the
transfer of the certificate to them. The plaintiff recovered
the money advanced to the bank upon the illegal certificate.
Both of these principles were held with equal distinctness in
Tracy v. Talmage, supra.
They seem to me to be decisive of the right of the plaintiff to recover upon the checks, regarding them in their
most unfavorable aspect, the amount of money advanced to
and yet held by the city.
For the reasons thus presented, I concur in the reversal
of the judgment.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and a
VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, dissenting:
I dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case,
chiefly upon two grounds: (1) Because I think the opinion
restricts quite too much the powers of municipal corporations; and (2), because the doctrines of the opinion, as applied to negotiable securities of a commercial character, are
repugnant to the well-settled rules of law established by the
repeated decisions of this court.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE and Mr. Justice STRONG also
dissented.
NOTE.
AT the same time with the preceding case, and by the same
counsel, was argued the case of
THE MAYOR V. LINDSEY.

In error to the same Circuit Court, for the Middle District of
Tennessee. In this case Lindsey sued the mayor of Nashville

486

UNITED STATES v. Aitwo.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.
on certain checks, similar in all respects, in form and inception,
to the check issued to Julius Sax, and mentioned more particularly supra, p. 472. The checks now sued on had been pledged
as collateral.security for a loan of less amount than the cheeks
pledged, and were sold soon after being pledged, and before the
loan fell due; the transaction being effected by the chairman of
the finance committee of the city council without other authority. Such at least was the tendency of the evidence, and
the judge charged substantially as in the preceding case of Ray.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY announced the judgment of this court,
REVERSING THE JUDGMENT BELOW, with directions to award a
VENIRE DE NOVO.

UNITED STATES V. AlWO.
Under the act of March 3d, 1825, 22, by which an assault on a person upon
the high seas with a dangerous weapon is made an offence against the
United States, and the trial of the offence is to be " in the district where
the offender is apprehended, OR into which he may first be brought,"
a person is triable in the Southern District of New York who, on a vessel owned by citizens of the United States, has committed on the high
seas the offence specified; has been then put in irons for safe-keeping
has, on the arrival of the vessel at anchorage at the lower quarantine in
the Eastern District of New York, been delivered to officers of the State
of New York, in order that he may be forthcoming, &c.; and has been
by them carried into the Southern District and there delivered to the
marshal of the United States for that district, to whom a warrant to
apprehend and bring him to justice was first issued.

ON certificate of division in opinion from the Southern
District of iew York.
A statute of March 3d, 1825,* makes an assault committed
on the high seas with a deadly weapon a crime against the
United States, and the act is made cognizable in virtue of
prior law,t "in the district where the offender is apprehended OR
into which he may first be brought."
* 4 Stat. at Large, 115, 22.
t Act of April 30th, 1790, 8; 1 Id. 113.

