Oct. 1873.]

AICARDI V. THE STATE.
Statement of the case.

AICARDI V. THE STATE.
1. *Whether the legislature of a State has authority under the constitution of
the State to pass a particular statute, what is the true interpretation of
any statute passed by it for a purpose specified, and what acts will be
justified under the statute, are matters which lie exclusively within the
determination of the highest court of the State.
2. Statutes which allow gaming are to be construed strictly.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Alabama.
The Revised Code of Alabama, section 3621, in force before and in the year 1868, enacts that,
"Any person who keeps or exhibits, or is interested or concerned in keeping or exhibiting, any table for gaming, of whatsoever name, kind, or description, not regularly licensed under
the laws of the State, must, on conviction, be fined not less
than $100," &c.
This section of the code being in force, the legislature, on
the 31st of December, 1868, passed an act which enacted,
" SECTION 1. That Clifton Moses & Co. shall have the full right
and authority to form themselves into a partnership association,
for the purpose of receiving subscriptions, and to sell and dispose of certificates of subscription which shall entitle the holder
thereof to such prizes as may be awarded to them, which distribution of award shall be fairly made in public, by casting of lots,
or by lot, chance, or OTHERWISE, in, such manner as to them may
seem best to promote the interest of the school fund of Mobile
County, which said distribution of award and prizes shall be
made at their office in the city of Mobile," &e.
"SE cTION 2. That before commencing business under the provisions of this act, said partners shall pay to the board of school
commissioners of Mobile County, for the use of the public schools
of said county, the sum of $1000; and annually thereafter a like
amount, for the term of ten years, or so long as said partnership
shall choose to do business under the provisions of this act; it
being understood and agreed, that said payment of $1000 per
annum is the consideration upon which this privilege is granted.
"SECTION 4. That this act shall remain in full force and effect

AICARDI

v. Tim

STATE.

[Sup. Ult

Argument for the prisoner.

for ten years, upon the consideration herein contained, during
which time said partnership company shall have the right to
exercise the privilege and franchise herein given, any law to the
contrary notwithstanding."

Under this act J. C. Moses & Co. formed a partnership,
which gave to one .icardi its authority to keep or exhibit
what was clearly a roulette-table, or

"

a table for gaming."

On the 8th of March, 1871, the legislature repealed the
above-quoted act.
Moses & Co., however, still paid the $1000 a year, and
kept the table open to the public.
Aicardi being now indicted under the section of the code
already quoted, set up an authority under the license from
Moses & Co., and that the act of the 8th of March, 1871,
which he alleged gave Moses & Co. the right to keep such
a table as he did, was void, as violating the obligation of
contracts. The court in which he was indicted held that it
was not thus void, and Aicardi was there convicted.
The Supreme Court of the State affirmed that judgment
on the authority of Mayor, Aldermen, and Council of Mobile v.
Clifton Moses et al., a case decided at the same term.
In that case the said court held the act of 31st of December, 1868, unconstitutional and void under the constitution
f the State; moreover that it did not authorize a gamingtable. Aicardi now brought the case here on error.
Messrs. J. A. Elmore and S. .. Rice, for the plaintiff in error,
contended that the legislature had full power to take away
either by general law or otherwise all indictable quality from
gambling; that they had here done so, so far as Moses &
Co. were concerned; and that as to them the section 3621
of the code had been repealed for a valuable consideration
paid to the State. That if the act of December, 1868, was
valid, it was impossible to argue that its b)road language did
not confer upon Moses & Co. the franchise or privilege to
do everything which Aicardi did, and to select any mode they
deepaed best for the distribution of awards and prizes; that

Oct. 1873.]

AICARDI V.

THE

STATE.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

the act of 1871 plainly impaired the obligation of the contract made with Moses & Co., and liberally paid for by them.
Hr. P. Phillips,contra, argued that no question was before
this court as to whether the repealing act of 1871 violated
the obligation of contracts; that the decision by the Supreme
Court of Alabama, on its own constitution and statutes, had
obviated the necessity of question here on that point, and
was beyond the revisory power of this court.
Reply: This court will decide for itself whether there was
a contract to be impaired, what were its terms, and what its
obligations, even though the contract have been a legislative
contract, or one which arises from the acceptance of the provisions of an act of a State legislature.* State courts are
not permitted to evade or elude the jurisdiction of this court,
by deciding that to be no contract which this court knows
to be a contract, or by any other mistake or device.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE recapitulated the facts of the case,
and delivered the opinion of the court.
The record discloses, so far as is necessary to state it, the
following case:
The plaintiff in error was indicted for keeping a gaming-

table.
The legislature of Alabama passed an act, approved December 31st, 1868, entitled "An act to establish the Mobile
Charitable Association, for the benefit of the common-school
fund of Mobile County, without distinction of color." It
authorized certain persons therein named to form themselves into a partnership association, under the name and
style of 5. C. Moses & Co., and to establish and carry on the
business specified. Before commencing business they were
required to pay to the board of school commissioners of Mobile County, for the use of the public schools of that county,
* Delmas v.Insurance Company, 14 Wallace, 661; Olcott v. The Supervisors, 16 Id. 678.

AICARDI v. THE STATE.

(Sup. or.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

the sum of $1000, "and annually thereafter a like amount
for the term of ten years, or so long as said partnership shall
choose to do business under the provisions of this get; it
being understood and agreed that said payment of $1000
per annum by said partnership to said common-school fund,
is the consideration upon which this privilege is granted, and
whenever said company shall fail to pay said sum according
to the provisions of this act, then and in that case the right
to do business shall cease." The last section declared "that
this act shall remain in full force and effect for ten years
upon the consideration herein contained, during which time
said partnership company shall have the right to exercise
the privilege and franchise herein given, any law to the
contrary notwithstandino . "
On the 8th of March, 1871, the legislature repealed the
act.
Moses & Co. paid the amount required as a condition precedent, and continued to pay from time to time thereafter
as if the repealing act had not been passed.
It was admitted that the defendant in keeping the gamingtable acted under the authority of Moses & Co., and as their
agent. The offence was charged to have been committed
on the 2d of December, 1871.
The bill of exceptions sets forth fully the evidence given
at the trial. The table was "a table similar in many respects to a table commonly known and called a roulettetable, or table and wheel similar to a roulette-table, at which
money was bet by persons operating at said table; that
the money was bet in this manner." The manner of using
the wheel and table and of conducting the gamiDg process
are then fully described.
The court instructed the jury in substance that if the
defendant had kept a gaming-table they should find him
guilty. The defendant excepted. He thereupon asked certain instructions, which were refused, and he excepted to
the refusal.
The Supreme Court of the State affirix ed the judgment,
and this writ of error has been prosecuted to bring the judg-

Oct. 1873.]

AIcARDI v. THE STATE.
Opinion of the court.

ment of affirmance before this court for review. The plaintiff in error insists that the act of December 31st, 1868, was,
when the repealing act was passed, as between Moses & Co.
and the State, a contract, and that the repealing act was a
violation of that contract within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, and therefore void.
Our attention has been called to the opinions of the judges
of the Supreme Court of Alabama in the case of The Mayor,
Aldermen, and Common Council of Mobile v. Clifton .Moses et al.
That case involved the same statutes and presented the same
questions as the case before us. In that case a majority of
the judges held that the act was unwarranted by the constitution of the State, and therefore void. But a majority also
held that keeping a gaming-table was not within the purview of the act, and that the act did not affect the preexisting provision of the code upon that subject. One of
the judges, holding this latter view, said: "The act declares
that the association was allowed to be formed for the purpose of receiving subscriptions, and to sell and dispose of
certificates of subscription, which shall entitle the holders
thereof to such prizes as may be awarded to them. This
is the means provided by the law to carry on 'business'
nuder the franchise. This may be done, whatever it may
mean, without the violation of the statutes against gambling; that is, without keeping a gaming-table in the manner
forbidden by the revised code. The scheme of operations
set out in the bill is clearly that of keeping or exhibiting 'a
table for gaming.' The legislature did not intend to repeal
this section of the code by the law allowing the formation
of this association, and turn loose upon society the evils thus
restrained."
This construction of the statute is authoritative in this
court. We concur in the views expressed by the learned
judge from whose opinion we have quoted. Such an act
should be construed strictly. Every reasonable doubt should
be so resolved as to limit the powers and rights claimed
under its authority. Implications and inteadments should

640

INSURANCE

COMPANY

v.

FOGARTY.

[sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

have no place except as they are inevitable from the language or the context. But aside from these views it is not
to be supposed that it was the purpose of the act to give to
the association the power to carry on, throughout the State,
for the period of ten years, gaming in the form disclosed in
this record, in defiance of the legislative authority, and without any check or limitation save such as they might choose
to impose upon themselves.
This conclusion renders it unnecessary to consider the
constitutional validity of the original act or the effect of the
repealing act. We have not found it necessary to consider
those subjects.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

FOGARTY.

1. The cases in reference to the line of distinction between a total and a
partial marine loss examined, and the principle announced that it is not
necessary to a total loss that there should be an absolute extinction or
destruction of the thing insured, so that nothing of it can be delivered
at the point of destination.
2. A destruction in specie, so that while some of its component elements or
parts may remain, while the thing which was insured, in the character
or description by which it was insured, is destroyed, is a total loss.
3. Hence, where machinery was insured, to wit, the parts of a sugar-packing machine, and no part of the same was delivered in a condition
capable of use, it is a total loss, though more than half the pieces in
number and value may be delivered, and would have some valne as old
iron.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York.

Fogarty sued the Great Western Insurance Company on
a policy of marine insurance and recovered a judgment for
$2611.95 and costs. The policy was an open one, and the
indorsenent procured by the plaintiff on it was of insurance
for $2250, on machinery on board the bark Ella Adele, at
and from New York to Havana, free from particular average.
The memorandum clause of the policy provided that ma-

