Oct. 1873.]

E X PARTE IR0BINSON.

Syllabus.

Again, it is said the law in question destroys the uniformity of taxation, because it provides for the collection of
the taxes assessed on account of this kind of property in an
unusual way. The constitution does not require uniformity
in the manner of collection. Uniformity in the assessment
is all it demands. When assessed the tax may be collected
in the manner the law shall provide; and this may be varied
to suit the necessities of each case.
Since the decree was rendered in the Circuit Court the
Supreme Court of Illinois has passed upon this same question and declared the law of 1867 to be constitutional. We
might have contented ourselves by acknowledging the authority of this decision, but we are willing not only to acknowledge its authority, but to admit its correctness.
We have not felt called upon to consider whether the
General Assembly could, under the provisions of the act of
Congress, provide for the taxation of shareholders at any
other place within the State than that in which the bank is
located. It is sufficient for the purposes of this case that it
might tax them there.
Other questions have been discussed in the argument, and
among them one which relates to the power of the bank to
interfere in behalf of its stockholders in the manner which
has been done. We have not deemed it necessary to pass
upon any of these questions, as those already decided are
conclusive of the case.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded with instructions to proceed

IN CONFORMITY WITH
THIS OPINION.

Ex PARTE: ROBINSON.
1. The act of Congress of March 2d, 1831, entitled "cAn act declaratory of
the law concerning contempts of court," limits the power of the Circuit
and District Courts of the United Ststes to three classes of cases: 1st,
where there has been misbehavior of a person in the presence of the

EX PARTE ROBINSO.[

t
[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.
courts, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice;
2d, where there has been misbehavior of any officer of the courts in his
official transactions; and 3d, where there has been disobedience or resistance by any officer, party, juror, witness, or other person, to any lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command of the courts.
2. The seventeenth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, in prescribing fine
or imprisonment as the punishment which may be inflicted by the courts
of the United States for contempts, operates as a limitation upon the
manner in which their power in this respect may be exercised, and is a
negation of all other modes of punishment.
8. The power to disbar an attorney can only be exercised where there has
been such conduct on the part of the party complained of as shows him
to be unfit to be a member of the profession; and before judgment disbarring him can be rendered he should have notice of the grounds of
complaint against him and ample opportunity of explanation and defence.
4. Mandamus is the appropriate remedy to restore an attorney disbarred,
where the court below has exceeded its jurisdiction in the matter.

ON petition by J. S. 'Robinson, an attorney at law, for
mandamus to the judge of the District Court for the Western
District of Arkansas, the case being thus:
On the 16th of July, 1873, the grand jury of the Western
District of Arkansas reported to the District Court of the
United States for the district, then in session at Fort Smith,
that in a case in which a certain Nash was a party, they had
made every effort in their power to have a witness by the
name of Silas Stephenson summoned to appear before them;
that for this purpose a subpcena for him had been placed the
day previous in the hands of a deputy marshal by the name
of Sheldon, for service; that the deputy marshal, on the
same day, went to the town of Van Buren, as he said, to
make the service; that after he had left the said town, the
witness was seen on the streets at Fort Smith, and the subpouna was on that morning returned unserved; that they
had learned from evidence before them that the witness
knew that a subpoena was issued for him, and had for that
reason come to Fort Smith, "but," continued the report,
"after seeing the attorney, J. S. Robinson, in the Nash case,
very suddenly absented himself." The jury therefore prayed
the court to issue an order that the witness, Stephenson, be
Drought before them.

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

PARTE ROBINSON.

Statement of the case.

Upon this report, without other complaint, the court ordered that Sheldon, the deputy marshal, Stephenson, the
witness, and Robinson, the attorney, "show cause why they
shouald not be punished as for a contempt."
Two days afterwards, on the 18th of July, the petitioner
filed the response of the deputy marshal to the order. The
judge then reminded the petitioner that there was also a
rule against him, to which he replied: "Yes, sir; I know
it, and I am here to respond. I don't know what there is
for me to answer. It," referring to the report of the grand
jury, "says I saw Silas Stephenson. I do not know what
the grand jury has to do with my private business in my
law office," and was proceeding to reflect upon the action
of the grand jury, when the judge said: "You must answer
in writing, Mr. Robinson;" to which the petitioner replied,
"The rule itself does not require me to respond in writing. "
Upon this the judge said, turning to the clerk: "It should
have done so; you will amend the order if it does not, Mr.
Clerk." The petitioner declined to answer the rule until it
was amended. The judge then said: "Well, I will make
the order for you to respond in writing now. Mr. Clerk,
you will enter an order requiring Mr. Robinson to answer
the rule in writing." Upon which the petitioner said: "I
shall answer nothing;" and thereupon immediately, without
time for another word, the judge ordered the clerk to strike
the petitioner's name from the roll of attorneys, and the
marshal to remove him from the bar.
This account of the language used by the petitioner and
the judge is taken from the latter's response to the alternative writ issued by this court as hereinafter mentioned. The
judge states in the same response that the tone and manner
of the petitioner were angry, disrespectful, and defiant; and
that regarding the words "I shall answer nothing," and the
tone in which they were uttered as in themselves grossly
and intentionally disrespectful, and as an expression of an intention to disobey and treat with contempt an order of the
court; and believing that the petitioner intended to intimidate him in the discharge of his duties,-he felt it due to

608

Ex PARTE ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

himself and his office to inflict summary and severe punishment upon the petitioner.
The order of the court disbarring the petitioner, made at
the time, and entered in the minutes of the court kept by
the clerk, was declared by the judge to be erroneous in
form, and afterwards, on the 28th of July, a more formal
order was entered nunc pro htnc. This latter order recited
the report of the grand jury mentioned above, and the rule
to show cause issued thereon why the parties should not be
punished as for a contempt, amended from the original order

by the insertion of the words, "forthwith in writing and
under oath;" and that the petitioner having notice at the
time that he was required to respond to the rule, "in a
grossly contemptuous, contumacious, and defiant manner,"
in open court, refused to respond in writing; and then proceeded to decree that, for. his contempt committed in open
court, as well as for his contempt committed in refusing
to respond to the rule, the license of the petitioner as an
attorney and counsellor at law and solicitor in chancery be
vacated; that the petitioner be disbarred from further practice in the court, and that his name be stricken from the
roll of attorneys, counsellors, and solicitors of the court.
Beforn' this amended order was entered, the petitioner,
through counsel, filed a motion to vacate the judgment disbarring him, based upon different grounds, which were specified. After its entry a motion to set aside the order as
amended was made, in -which the petitioner adopted the
grounds of the original motion and added others. The substance of the more important of these was, that no charges
had been previously preferred in writing and filed against
him; that he had had no notice of any charges; that the
report of the grand jury contained no charge which he
could be required to answer; that no rule had been served
upon him to show cause why he should not be disbarred;
that he had had no trial previous to being disbarred, and
had been denied the right of being heard in his defence;
and that the court bad no jurisdiction under the circum'dances to render the judgment disbarring him.

Oct. 1873.]

. .Ex
PARTEiROBINSON.
Statement of the case.

He also set up among the grounds upon which he would
rely, that the sentence he uttered, "I shall answer nothing,"
was incomplete, and that he was prevented from finishing
it by the action of the judge in interrupting him with the
judgment disbarring him; that the sentence completed
would have been, "I shall answer nothing until the order
to answer the rule in writing shall be served upon me."
He also disclaimed any intention to commit a contempt
of the court, or to act in defiance of its orders or authority
at the time, and averred that he was not conscious of the
conduct attributed to him towards the court. This statement was verified by his oath; but the motion was denied.
The petitioner then applied to this court for the present
mandamus; a mandamus upon the judge to vacate the order
disbarring him and to restore him to the roll of attorneys
and counsellors. In his petition, which was verified, he referred to the proceedings of the court below, the record of
which was on file in this court, on an appeal taken from.the
judgment of that court; and stated that in the interview
with the witness Stephenson which the grand jury mentioned, there was no allusion made to the Nash case or to
the grand jury, but that the consultation then had with the
witness related to a totally different matter.
Upon filing the petition, the court ordered that a rule
issue to the judge of the District Court,* requiring him to
show cause on or before the 10th day of April, A.D. 1874,
why a writ of mandamus should not issue to him directing
him to revoke his order of July 28th, 1878, disbarring the
petitioner, and to restore him to the roll of attorneys and
counsellors practicing in the said court.
The rule was served personally upon the judge in March,
and in April following he filed his answer. To the answer
the counsel for the petitioner demurred and moved, on the
papers, for a peremptory mandamus.
The seventeenth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 pro* The District Court for the Western District of Arkansas is possessed of
Circuit Court powers and jurisdiction, 9 Stat. at Large, 595.

EX PARTE ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

vides that all the courts of the United States "shall have
power . . . to punish by fine or imprisonment, at the discretion of said courts, all contempts of authority in any cause
or hearing before the same."*
The act of March 2d, 1831, entitled "An act declaratory
of the law concerning contempts of court,"t provides, in its
first section :
"That the power of the several courts of the United States
to issue attachments, and inflict summary punishment for contempts of court, shall not be construed to extend to any cases,
except the misbehavior of any person or persons in the presence
of the said courts, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice, the misbehavior of any of the officers of the
said courts in their official transactions, and the disobedience or
resistance by any officer of the said courts, party, juror, witness,
or any other person or persons, to any lawful writ, process,
order, rule, decree, or command of the said courts."
Messrs. Durant and Hornor,for the petitioner. iVo opposing
counsel.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts of the case, delivered the opinion of the court, as follows:
The power to punish for contempts is inherent in all
courts; its existence is essential to the preservation of order
in judicial proceedings, and to the enforcement of the judgments, orders, and writs of the courts, and consequently to
the due administration of justice. The moment the courts
of the United States were called into existence and invested
with jurisdiction over any subject, they became possessed
of this power. But the power has been limited and defined
by the act of Congress of March 2d, 1831.1 The act, in
terms, applies to all courts; whether it can be held to limit
the authority of the Supreme Court, which derives its existence and powers from the Constitution, may perhaps be
a matter of doubt. But that it applies to the Circuit and
* 1 Stat. at Large, 83.

t4

1d. 487.

I b.

Oct. 1873.]

Ex PARTE ROBINSON.
Opinion of the court.

District Courts there can be no question. These courts
were created by act of Congress. Their powers and duties
depend upon the act calling them into existence, or subsequent acts extending or limiting their jurisdiction. The act
of 1831 is, therefore, to them the law specifying the cases
in which summary punishment for contempts may be inflicted. It limits the power of these courts in this respect
to three classes of cases: 1st, where there has been misbehavior of a person in the presence of the courts, or so
near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice;
2d, where there has been misbehavior of any officer of the
courts in his official transactions; and, 3d, where there has
been disobedience or resistance by any officer, party, juror,
witness, or other person, to any lawful writ, process, order,
rule, decree, or command of the courts. As thus seen the
power of these courts in the punishments of contempts can
only be exercised to insure order and decorum in their presence, to secure faithfulness on the part of their officers in
their official transactions, and to enforce obedience to their
lawful orders, judgments, and processes.
If we now test the report of the grand jury by this statute,
we find nothing in it which justified any proceeding whatever as for a contempt on the part of the court below against
Robinson. :No act of his is mentioned which could constitute within the statute a contempt either of the court or of
its judge. The allegation that the witness Stephenson, after
secing Robinson, had suddenly absented himself, amounted
to nothing more than an insinuation that possibly he may
have been advised to that course by Robinson. There was
no averment of any fact which the court could notice or the
attorney was bound to explain.
Whatever contempt was committed by the petitioner consisted in the tone and manner in which his language to the
court was uttered. On this hearing we are bound to take
the statements in that respect of the judge embodied in his
order as true, for the question before us is not whether the
court erred, but whether it had any jurisdiction to disbar
the petitioner for the alleged contempt.

EX PARTE ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The law happily prescribes the punishment which the
court can impose for contempts. The seventeenth section
of the Judiciary Act of 1789 declares that the court shall
have power to punish contempts of their authority in any
cause or hearing before them, by fine or imprisonment, at
their discretion. The enactment is a limitation upon the
manner in which the power shall be exercised, and must be
held to be a negation of all other modes of punishment.
The judgment of the court disbarring the petitioner, treated
as a punishment for a contempt, was, therefore, unauthorized and void.
The power to disbar an attorney proceeds upon very different grounds. This power is possessed by all courts which
have authority to admit attorneys to practice. But the
power can only be exercised where there has been such conduct on the part of the parties complained of as shows them
to be unfit to be members of the profession. Parties are
admitted to the profession only upon satisfactory evidence
that they possess fair private character and sufficient legal
learning to conduct causes in court for suitors. The order
of admission is the judgment of the court that they possess
the requisite qualifications both in character and learning.
They become by such admission officers of the court, and,
as said in Ex parte Garland,* "they hold their office during
good behavior, and can only be deprived of it for misconduct ascertained and declared by the judgment of the court
after opportunity to be heard has been afforded." Before a
judgment disbarring an attorney is rendered he should have
notice of the grounds of complaint against him and ample
opportunity of explanation and defence. This is a rule of
natural justice, and should be equally followed when proceedings are taken to deprive him of his right to practice
his profession, as when they are taken to reach his real or
personal property. And such has been the general, if not
the uniform, practice of the courts of this country and of
England. There may be cases undoubtedly of such gross
and outrageous conduct in open court on the part of the
4 Wallace, 378.

Oct. 1873.]

EX PARTE ROBINSON.
Statement of the case.

attorney, as to justify very summary proceedings for his
suspension or removal from office; but even then he should
be heard before he is condemned.* The principle that there
must be citation before hearing, and bearing or opportunity
of being heard before judgment, is essential to the security
of all private rights. Without its observance no one would
be safe from oppression wherever power may be lodged.
That mandamus is the appropriate remedy in a case like
this to restore an attorney disbarred, where the court below
has exceeded its jurisdiction in the matter, was decided in
Ex parte Bradley, reported in the 7th of Wallace. It would
serve no useful purpose to repeat the reasons by which this
conclusion was reached, as they are fully and clearly stated
in that case, and are entirely satisfactory.
A peremptory mandamus must issue, requiring the judge
of the court below to vacate the order disbarring the petitioner, and to restore him to his office.
MANDAMUS AWARDED.

Mr. Justice MILLER dissented.

NOTE.
SAME

CASE.

[On Appeal.]
An appeal does not lie to this court from an order of the District Court disbarring an attorney. The remedy of the party, if any,is by mandamus.
See the case as reported, supra.
APPEAL from the District Court for the Western District of
Arkansas.
Before the application for a mandamus was made to this
court, as above reported, the petitioner, Robinson, had appealed
* Ei uarte Heyfron, 7 Howard's Mississippi Reports, 127; People V. Turner, 1 California, 148; Fletcher v. Daingerfield, 20 Id. 430; Beene v. State,
22 Arkansas, 157; Ex parte Bradley, 7 Wallace, 864; Bradley v. Fisher, 12
Id. 854.
88
VOL. xix.

[Sup. Mr.

RYAN V. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

from the order of the District Court disbarring him. The record
being filed, he moved that the case be advanced on the calendar
for hearing.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, after stating the facts respecting the
order disbarring the appellant, delivered the opinion of the court
as follows:
The petitioner moves the court to advance the case. Cases
involving great hardships are frequently brought here for revis.
Jon, and in such cases it is competent for the court to advance
the same on motion. Still the motion must be denied, as it is
well-settled law that neither an appeal nor a writ of error will
lie in such a case. HIence it was held in the case of Ex parte
Bradley, that mandamus from this court to a subordinate court
was a proper remedy to restore an attorney at law, disbarred
by such subordinate court, for a contempt committed by him
before another court, as in such a case the court issuing the
order disbarring the attorney had no jurisdiction to pass the
order.
Whether the present case can be distinguished from the case
cited will not now be decided, but the court is of opinion that
the remedy of the party, if any, in this court, is not by an
appeal.*

.MOTIONDENIED.

RYAN ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

I. Sureties on a bond for the transportation of tobacco from one district to
another, in the condition of which, the number of boxes and pounds of
tobacco are given, and the kind of tobacco described, are responsible for
the delivery at the proper place of the tobacco, and not the boxes in
which it was supposed to be, but never was.
2. The fraud of the principal in filling the boxes with other substances than
tobacco before they left his warehouse, does not release the sureties from
this obligation.
8 Nor does the carelessness of the inspecting~officer, though it made the
fraud of the principal in the bond easier of accomplishment, release the
sureties on his transportation bond.
* Ex parte Bradley, 7 Wallace, 364.

