Oct. 1873.]

NUGENT V. THz SuPmVtiSORS.
Syllabus.

contingent funds. There was no occasion or room for any
other assessment. This was a charge of a certain sum upon
the bank,* and without more it made the bank a debtor.
We think, therefore, the second assignment of error canJUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
not be sustained.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, with whom concurred Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment of the court, on the ground
that an action will not lie for a tax of the kind in question
in this case, unless it be first entered on the assessment-roll.
The assessment-roll should be regarded as conclusive as to
the persons or things liable to taxation. If it is not, if the
matter is left open so that any person or corporation may
be prosecuted for taxes at any time, it leaves the citizen exposed to many hazards, and to the mercy of prying informers, when the evidence by which he could have shown his
immunity or exemption has perished.

If an action of debt,

without an assessment can be brought, what is the limit of
time within which it must be brought? To what statute of
limitations is the government subject? It seems to me that
the decision introduces a new principle in the system of taxation, dangerous to the rights of the citizen and the peace
and security of society.

INUGENT V.

Ti

SUPERVISORS.

1. To constitute a "subscription" by a county to stock in a railroad company, it is not necessary that there be an act of chirographical subscribing. A resolution of the county declaring a subscription made, tn
acceptance of such subscription by the railroad company, and notice to
the county of such acceptance; the delivery to the railroad company
by the proper county officers of the county bonds, and acceptance by the
county of the corresponding stock, voting as a stockholder and levying a
tax to pay the interest on the bonds, estop the county (assuming that it
had a legal right to subscribe) from denying its subscription.
* Attorney-General v. -,
YOL. xrx.

2 Anstruther, 558.
16

242

NUGENT V. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. Although a subscriber for stock in a company is released from his sub.
scription by a subsequent alteration of the organization or purposes of
the company, this is. only when such alteration is a fundamental one,

and when, in addition, it is not provided for or contemplated by either
the charter itself or the general laws of the State.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois; in which court, in December, 1872, Nugent sued
the supervisors of Putnam County, Illinois, on coupons for
the interest of certain bonds issued by the said county.
The case, as appearing on demurrer to a replication by
the plaintiff to several pleas of the defendant, and by admitted statutes, was thus:
A general statute of the State of Illinois, entitled "An

act to enable railroad companies . . . to consolidate their

stock," passed February 28th, 1854, thus enacts:
"SECTION 1. All railroad companies now organized, or hereafter to be organized, which now have, or hereafter may have
their termini fixed by law, whenever their said road or roads
intersect by continuous lines, may, and the same are hereby authorized and empowered to consolidate their property and stock
with each other, and to consolidate with companies out of this State,
whenever their lines connect with the lines of such companies out of
this State.
"SECTION 2. The said companies, when so consolidated, shall
be authorized to agree upon the name or names of such consolidated company; and by such name or names the said consolidated company shall be a body corporate and politic, . . . and
shall have all the powers, franchises, and immunities which the
said respective companies shall have by virtue of their respective charters, before such consolidation passed, within the State
of Illinois."
A similar general statute exists in Indiana.*
This public statute being in force, the State of Illinois, on
the 15th of April, 1869, by special act, incorporated the Kankakee and Illinois River ]Railroad Company. The company
was authorized to make and maintain a railroad from the
Act of February 23d, 1853; see Clearwater -.

Ieredith, 1 Wallace, 26.

Oct. 1873.]

NUGENT v. THE SUPERVISORS.

248

Statement of the case.

eastern line of the State to a place called Bureau Junction;
and had liberty to increase its stock to such all amount as
might be necessary to complete its road. The eleventh section of its charter ran thus:
"SEcTIoN 11. It shall be lawful for said company, and they
shall have power to unite or consolidate its railroad with any
other railroad or railroads now constructed, or being constructed,
or which may hereafter be constructed within this State, or any
other 3tate, which may cross or intersect the same, or be built
along the line thereof,upon such terms as may be mutually agreed
upon between said company, or any other company. And for
said purpose, full power is hereby given said company to make
and execute such contracts with any other company or companies as will secure the object of such connections or consolidations."

At the same time the county of Putnam was empowered,
by a general law of the State, to subscribe for the stock of
the company, and to issue its bonds in payment of its subscription. In attempted exercise of the power thus conferred, the board of supervisors of the county, on the 4th
day of June, 1869, ordered an election to be held, to determine whether the county should subscribe for stock or the
railroad company, to the amount of $75,000, to be paid for
with the bonds of the county, provided the railroad should
be so located and constructed through, or within one-half
mile of, the town of Hennepin. The election was held, and
it resulted in favor of the subscription. On the 4th day of
January, 1870, another election was ordered, to determine
whether the county would subscribe for $25,000 more of the
stock, to be paid in the same manner, and with a similar
provision respecting the location of the road. This subscription was also sanctioned by the popular vote. On the
24th day of September, 1869, the railroad company accepted
the $75,000 subscription, and on the 27th of October next
following, gave notice of the acceptance to the board of su.
pervisors of the county. This notice was put upon record,
and on the same da" the board of supervisors adopted a
resolution that the subscription was thereby made for the

244

NUGENT V. THE SUPERViSO1S.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

building of the railroad, and directed the clerk of the county
court to execute and deliver the bonds on behalf of the
county. The resolution also declared that the bonds should
be issued on the written order of a committee appointed to
protect the interests of the county; that they should not be
issued until the railroad company should have made a bond
fide contract with responsible parties for all necessary iron
for their road, nor until the company should have made a
bondfide contract with responsible parties for laying the iron
and operating the road through the county, as specified in a
previous order of the board. On the 15th day of March,
1870, the second subscription for $25,000 was made in a
similar manner, and with like directions.
The bonds, with the proper number of coupons attached,
were executed in proper form by the proper county officers.
The bonds were made payable to the Kankakee and Illinois
River Railroad Company "or bearer;" the coupons to the
bearer simply.
On the 12th of January, 1870, and before the instruments
were.delivered to the said railroad company, a company had
been organized under the laws of Indiana, for the purpose of
building a railroad from Plymouth, Indiana, to the east line
of the State of Illinois, at some point to be selected in the
direction of Momence and Kankakee, with a view to connection with some railroad leading westward. Its corporate
name was the Plymouth, Kankakee, and Pacific Railroad
Company. With this corporation, on the 21st day of October, 1870, the Kankakee and Illinois River Railroad Company became consolidated, taking the name of the former.
This consolidation was made at the instance of the board of
supervisors of Putnam County. It was not asserted that it
had not been legally effected. The consolidation being completed, and the conditions precedent to the delivery of the
bonds having been complied with to the satisfhction of the
officers of the county, the bonds and coupons were delivered
to the railroad company, and certificates for a corresponding
amount of stock in the consolidated company delivered to
and received by the county. The county voted as a stock.

Oct. 1873.]

KUGENT V.

THE SUPERVISORS.

Statement of the case.

holder of the railroad company, and proceeded to levy a tax
to pay the interest on the bonds.
Certain of the coupons passed into the hands of the plain,ifi Nugent, bornfide; he having paid value for them, in the
market, without notice of any defence.
On these coupons it was that the present suit was brought.
The court below, disregarding an argument made in the
case, that the county had made no actual subscription, and
that what it had otherwise done wanted such completeness
of action as would amount to a "subscription" in law to
anything-sustained nevertheless the demurrer on other
grounds. It said:
"I feel compelled to say that I cannot find any line of distinction between this case and .Marsh v. Fulton County,* but it
seems to me that that case must control the decision of the court
in this.
"The vote of the 10th of July, 1869, and the 8th of February,
1870, were both upon the proposition to subscribe to the capital
stock of the Kankakee and Illinois River Railroad Company, a
corporation possessing the power to construct and maintain a
line of road between certain termini in this State, with a capital
stock limited, in any event, to the cost of constructing of this
road. The bonds in question were issued after this Kankakee
and Illinois River Railroad Company had merged itself, by articles of consolidation, into another corporation, now known as
the Plymouth, Kankakee and Pacific Railroad Company, a road
having control of a different enterprise from that of the original
corporation, possessing a different capital stock, and governed
by a different board of directors, elected upon a different basis,
w;%h different termini to the road.
"IIn the case of Clearwaterv. Meredith, in the 1st of Wallace,t
the Supreme Court of the United States has passed upon the effect
of consolidating railroad corporations. The principle which I
have alluded to is there clearly announced, namely, that a different corporation result6 from the consolidation. The consolidated company is not either of the original corporations,
although it may take the name of one of them. Here the origi.
nal corporation for the stock of which the county of Putnam
*10

Wallace, 6}76.

t- Page 25.

NUGENT V. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. t

Statement of the case.
subscribed, was solely under control of the State of Illinois; its
franchises had been created by that State, and were under its
control. The consolidated company is in two States; its affairs
are subject to the control of the legislatures of two States.
"Now, the principle of these authorities, it seems to me, is
that the corporate existence of the Kankakee and Illinois River
Railroad Company ceased on the 21st of October, 1871, and
from that time forward whatever franchises it had were merged
in the Plymouth, Kankakee and Pacific Railroad Company, the
consolidated corporation, and after this event had taken place,
after what we may call the legal demise of the Kankakee and
Illinois River Railroad Company, the board of supervisors of
Putnam County authorized the issue to the consolidated corporation of the bonds in question.
"I cannot see any feature in this case which differs from
.Mfarsh v. Fulton County, unless that this is a stronger ease than
that. There the corporation existed in and was controlled by
this State alone, and its termini remained the same, while this
consolidated corporation is a very different enterprise from the
original to which the subscription was authorized.
"It was insisted in the argument, and also in the pleadings,
that these bonds being made payable in terms to the Kankakee
and Illinois River Railroad Company, is a fact which the court
should notice, and which should control the decision of the court.
It certainly is an important fact, and has received consideration,
but I cannot see that it changes the legal bearings of the question. This was a defunct corporation, and the bonds might just
as well have been made payable to bearer, and the person to
whom they are made payable cuts no figure in the case.
"In the case of Glearwaterv. -Meredith,the general law of the
State of Indiana existed at the time the stock in question was
issued. The law of that State and of Illinois are substantially
the same, the two States keeping pace with each other in their
legislation on this question; but the Supreme Court did not hold
that the organic right of either or both corporations to consolidate changed the rights of the stockholders."
To a judgment against him the plaintiff took this writ of
error.
Mr. T. X. Shaw, for the ylaintff in error; 31r. T. L. Dickey,
contra.

Oct. 1873.]

NUGENT V.

THE SUPERVISORS.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
We think the Circuit Court erred in sustaining the demurrer to the plaintiff's replication. The bonds to which
the coupons in suit were attached, purport to have been
made and issued by the order or the board of supervisors
of Putnam County, in payment of the county's subscription
to the capital stock of the Kankakee and Illinois River Railroad Company. They are made payable to that company or
bearer, and the plaintiff is a bonafide holder of the coupons,
having paid value for them without notice of any defence.
If, then, the bonds are valid obligations, if they were rightfully issued, the right of the plaintiff to a judgment against
the county is plain.
That by what it did in the matter the county became in
effect a subscriber to the capital stock of the railroad company, and liable for the sums designated, admits of no serious
question. The fact that no subscription was formally made
upon the books of the company is quite immaterial. In The
Justices qf Clare Countly v. The Paris, Winchester, and Kentlcy River Turnpike Company,* it was ruled that an order
of the County Court, by which it was said that it subscribed
for a specified number of shares of road stock, was binding,
the court having authority to make a subscription. In this
case there was more. There was not only the resolution,
declaring the subscription made, but there was an acceptance by the railroad company, and notice of the acceptance.
The minds of the parties came together. Both understood
that a contract was made, and had nothing subsequently
occurred to change their relations the county could have
enforced the delivery of the stock, and the company could
have compelled the delivery to itself of the bonds, on
performance of the conditions stipulated. So the parties
regarded their relations to each other. The bonds were
delivered. The committee appointed by the board of supervisors to protect the interests of the county, under whose
direction the bonds were ordered to be issued, were satisfied
11 B. M.onroe, 143.

NUGENT V.

THE SuPERVIsoRs.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

that all the prescribed conditions precedent to their delivery
had been complied with, and they so decided. The county
accepted the position of a stockholder, received certificates
for the stock subscribed, voted as a stockholder, and proceeded to levy a tax to pay the interest falling due on the
bonds. Were this all of the case, the validity of the bonds,
and of their accompanying coupons in the hands of a bond
fide holder fbr value, would be beyond doubt.
The Circuit Court, however, was of opinion, and so decided, that the bonds are invalid, because before their delivery the Kankakee and Illinois River Railroad Company
had become consolidated with the Plymouth, Kankakee, and
Pacific Railroad Company, another corporation. This consolidation was authorized by the general laws of the two
States, and by a section in the special charter of the latter
company. No claim is made that it was not legally effected.
The result necessarily was, that the consolidated company
succeeded to all the rights, property, and privileges which
belonged to each of the two companies out of which it was
formed, before their consolidation. It was not until after
this had taken place that the county bonds were handed
over and sold, and it was certificates of the stock of the consolidated company which the county received.
What, then, was the legal effect of the consolidation ? Did
it release the county from its prior assumption to take stock
in the Kankakee and Illinois River Rail'oad Company and
give its bonds in payment? Or, did it render unauthorized
the subsequent delivery of the bonds, and make them invalid
even in the hands of a bonO fide purchaser? These are the
only questions presented by the record that need discussion.
It must be conceded, as a general rule, that a subscriber
to the stock of a railroad company is released fr-om obligation to pay his subscription by a fundamental alteration of
the charter. The reason of the rule is evident. A subscription is always presumed to have been made in view of the
main design of the corporation, and of the arrangements
made for its accomplishment. A radical change in the organization or purposes of the company may, therefore, take

Oct. 1873.]

NUGENT

v. ThE

SUPERVISORS.

249

Opinion of the court.

away the motive which induced the subscription, as well os
afict injuriously the consideration k9the contract. For this
reason it is held that such a change exonerates a subscriber
from liability for his subscription; or, if the contract has
been -executed, justifies a stockholder in resorting to a court
of equity to restrain the company from applying the funds
of the original organization to any project not contemplated
by it. But while this is true as a generdtl rule it has no applicability to a case like the present. The consolidation of
the Kankakee and Illinois River Railroad Company with
another company was no departure from its original design.
The general statute of the State, approved February 28th,
1854, authorized all railroad companies then organized, or
thereafter to be organized, to consolidate their property and
stock with each other, and with companies out of the State,
whenever their lines connect with the lines of such companies out of the State. The act further declared that the
consolidated company should have all the powers, franchises,
and immunities which the consolidating companies respectively had beforo their consolidation. Nor is this all. The
special charter of the lKankakee and Illinois River Railroad
Company contained, in its eleventh section, an express grant
to the company of authority to unite or consolidate its railroad with any other railroad or railroads then constructed
or that might thereafter be constructed within the State, or
any other State, which might cross or intersect the same, or
be built along the line thereof, upon such terms as might be
mutually agreed upon between said company and any other
company. It was therefore contemplated by the legislature,
as it must have been by all the subscribers to the stock of
the company, that precisely what has occurred might occur.
Subscribers must be presumed to have known the law of the
State and to have contracted in view of it. *When the voters
of the county of Putnam sanctioned a county subscription
by their vote, and when the board of supervisors, in pursuance of that sanction, resolved to make the subscription,
they were informed by the law of the State that a consolidation with another company might be made, that the stock

KUGENT V. THE SUPERVISORS.

['sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

they proposed to subscribe might be converted into stock
of the consolidated company, and that the liability they
assumed might become owing to that company. 'With this
knowledge and in view of such contingencies they made the
cont'act. The consolidation, therefore, wrougit no change
in the organization or design. of the company to which they
subscribed other than they contemplated at the time as possible and legitinatle. It cannot be said that any motive for
their subscription has been taken away, or that the consideration for it has failed. Hence the reason of the general
rule we have conceded does not exist in this case, and, consequently, the rule is inapplicable.
In a multitude of cases decided in England and in this
country it has been determined that a subscriber for the
stock of a company is not released from his engagement to
take it and pay for it by any alteration of the organization
or purposes of the company which, at the time the subscription was made, were authorized either by the general law or
by the special charter, and a clear distinction is recognized
between the effect of such alterations and the effect of those
made under legislation subsequent to the contract of subscription. In The Cork and Youghal Railway Compan? v. Paterson,* which was an action to recover a call of one pound
per share on one hundred shares subscribed, it appeared
that the defendant was one of the subscribers to the agreement for the Cork, Middleton, and Youghal Railroad Company. That agreement authorized tie provisional directors
to extend the purposes of the organization, to change the
termini of the road, and to amalgamate with other companies. The subscriber's agreement for the Cork and
Waterford Railroad Company contained similar provisions.
After the defendant's subscription was made the two companies executed a deed of amalgamation, without any other
assent of the defendant than his signature to the subscriber's
agreement for the first-named company. Upon this state of
facts all the judges held that he remained liable on his sub* 87 English Law and Equity, 398.

Oct. 1873.]

NUGENT v. THE SupmRvisols.

251

Opinion of the court.

scription. Its effect was said, by Chief Justice Jervis, to be
an authority to the company to tack his subscription to anything else they might see fit, and thus make him a subscriber
to that, and therefore, added the judge, by signing the Cork
and Youghal he afforded an authority to the directors to apply his signature to the Cork and Waterford, and so make
him a subscriber to that. To the same effect are the cases
of Nixon v. Brownlow and Nixon v. Green.* The American
authorities are equally explicit. They uniformly assert that
the subscriber for stock is released from his subscription by
a subsequent alteration of the organization or purposes of
the company, only when such alteration is both fundamental
and not provided for or contemplated by either the charteritself or
the general laws of the State. In Sparrow v. Tie Etansville and
Crawfordsville Railroad Corpany,t where it appeared that
after a public act had taken effect authorizing the consolidation of the charters of two railroad companies, the defendant
had subscribed for shares in one of them, and a consolidation
was afterwards made, he was held liable to the consolidated
company for his subscription, and this, though the consolidation took place without his knowledge or consent. The
same doctrine was asserted in Bish v. Johnson.t The Supreme Court of Connecticut recognized the rule in Bishop v.
Brainerd,ยง and a subscriber to one company was held to be
a debtor to the consolidated company in a case where there
was no general authority to consolidate, but the charter of
the company was subject to amendment by the legislature,
and where the legislature, after the subscription confirmed
the consolidation.
Many other citations are at hand, but these are sufficient,
t 7 Porter (Indiana), 869.
3 Hurlstone & Norman, 686.
21 Indiana, 299; see also Hanna v. Cincinnati, 20 Id. 30.
28 Connecticut, 289; see also Schenectady and Saratoga Plankroad Co.
v. Thatcher, 1 Kernan, 102; Buffalo and Now York City Railroad Co. v.
Dudley, 4 Id. 3B6; Meadow Dam v. Gray, 30 Maine, 547; Agricultural
Branch Railroad Co. v. Winchester, 13 Allen, 32; Noyes v. Spaulding, 27
Vermont, 420; Pacific Railroad Co. v. Renshaw, 18 Missouri, 210; Fry v.
Lexington, 2 Metcalfe, 814; Illinois River Railroad Co. v. Beers, 27 Illincis.
189; Terre Haute and Alton Railroad Co. v. Earp, 21 Id. 292.

NUGENT

v.

TjiE SuPERvIsoRts.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

No well-considered cases are in conflict with them. .Marsh
v. Fallon Countg is altogether a different case. In that it
appeared that the people of the county voted in November,
1853, in favor of a subscription for stock in the Mississippi
and Wabash Railroad Company, and in April, 1854, the
board of supervisors of the county ordered their clerk to
make the subscription. It was not, however, then made.
Subsequently, in 1857, the legislature made fundamental
changes in the organization of the company, dividing it substantially into three companies, with a distinct governing
body for each, and with three classes of stockholders. It
was after this that the county subscription was made; and
made not for the stock of the Mississippi and Wabash Railroad Company, but for the stock of one of the divisions.
Necessarily, therefore, we held that there was no authority
to make the subscription which was made, that it had not
been approved by a popular vote, and hence that the bonds
issued in payment for it were invalid. The county had
entered into no contract until after the radical changes had
been made in the organization of the company. It never
assented to such a change, and when the proposed subscription was approved by the popular vote, there was no reason
to expect the change afterwards made. There was at that
time nothing in the general law of the State, and nothing
in the charter, which authorized the company to change its
organization, or which looked to its division into several
distinct corporations. It needs nothing more to show how
unlike that case was to the present.
In the case in hand the county had, under lawful authority,
undertaken to subscribe for stock before the consolidation
was made, and the undertaking had been accepted. A liability had been incurred, and the business agents of the
county, to whom exclusively the law intrusted the management of its affars, consented to and promoted the consolidation. And the subscription was made in full view of the
law that allowed an amalgamation with another company.
The contract was made with reference to that law. Nothing
has taken place which the county was not bound to autici-

Oct. 1873.]

NUGENT v. THE SUPERVISORS.

253

Opinion of the court.

pate as likely to happen, and to which the people in voting
for the subscription, and the board of supervisors in directing it, must not be considered as having consented. What
was ruled in Marsh v. Fulton County, therefore, does not
touch this case. Nor was there anything decided in Clearwater v. Meredith which sustains in any degree the defence
set up on behalf of the defendants.
We have, then, in brief, this case: The people of Putnam
County, in pursuance of law, voted a county subscription
for stock in a railroad company, to be paid for with county
bonds. The financial agents of the county agreed to make
the subscription, and the company accepted it. The bonds
were made payable to the company, or bearer, but before
they were delivered, the company became consolidated with
another, in pursuance of authority conferred by the law in
force when the subscription was voted, and at the instance
of the board of supervisors of the county. All the conditions precedent to the delivery of the bonds were complied
with to the satisfaction of the county agents, certificates for
the stock were received, and the bonds were delivered and
sold. The plaintiff is a bonaftde holder of some of the coupons for value paid. It would, we think, be a reproach to
the administration of justice if he cannot enforce the payment of those coupons, and we see no princil)le of law or
equity that stands in the way of his action. He found the
bonds and the coupons upon the market, payable to the
Kankakee and Illinois River Railroad Company, or bearer.
Proposing to buy, he had only to inquire whether the county
was, by law, authorized to issue them, and whether their
issue had been approved by a popular vote. He was not
bound to inquire fatrther, and had he inquired he would
have found full authority for the issue, and if he had also
known of the consolidation it would not have affected him.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

tions

to

and the cause remitted with instruc-

OVERRULE THE DEFENDANT'S DEMURRER.

Dissenting, Mr. Justice DAVIS and Mr. Justice MILLER.

