58

KNOWLES v. GASLIGHT AND COKE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

were two miles apart at that time and much change was

made in her wheel, that the collision would have been
avoided unless a counterchange was made in the wheel before the distance between the two vessels was overcome.
Carefully examined, it will be seen that the testimony of
the respondents does not show that the schooner changed
her course but once after her signal-lights were first seen,
and that change is admitted by the witnesses of the libellant. But they differ widely in one respect from the respondent's witnesses, as the latter assume that the collision would
have been avoided if that change of course had not beerx
made, whereas the libellant's witnesses testify to the effect
that it was not made until the collision was inevitable, and
the court is of the opinion that the latter theory is satisfactorily proved. Inferences from circumstantial facts may
frequently amount to full proof of a given theory, and may
even be strong enough to overcome the force and effect of
direct testimony to the contrary, but the circumstances invoked in argument by the respondents in this case are not
sufficiently persuasive and convincing to justify the court in
adopting a conclusion directly opposed to the positive testimony of all the witnesses who were on the deck of the
schooner just before and at the time the disaster occurred.
Beyond doubt they must know what the circumstances were,
and the record furnishes no sufficient reason to warrant the
court in imputing to them wilful falsehood.
DECREE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT REVERSED)

and the cause

remanded with directions to
AFFIRM THE DECREE OF THE DISTRICT COURT.

KNOWLES v. THE GASLIGHT AND COKE COMPANY.

1. A return to a summons by the sheriff that he has served the defendant
personally therewith is sufficient, without stating that the service was
made in his county. This will be presumed.

Oct. 1873.]

KNOWLES V. GASLIGHT AND COKE COMPANY.

59

Statement of the case.
2. But, in an action on a judgment rendered in another State, the defendant, notwithstanding the record shows a return of the sheriff that he
was personally served with process, may show the contrary, namely,
that he was not served, and that the court never acquired jurisdiction
of his person. The case of Thompson v. Whitman (18 Wallace, 457),
affirmed and applied.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota.
The Logansport Gaslight and Coke Company brought an
action in the court below, against Alfred Knowles, ol a
ERROR

judgment recovered by it against the said Knowles and one

Thomas Harvey, in the Circuit Court for Gass County, Indiana. The defence to the action now brought was that
that court did not have jurisdiction of the person of the defendant. The record of the former judgment was produced
on the trial and was somewhat anomalous. Three defendants were sued in the Cass County Court-a certain J. W.
Bain, Knowles, and Harvey-none of whom resided in Indiana. Bain was served with process in New York, and after
a long struggle to get the proceedings dismissed as to himself, removed the cause into the Circuit Court of the United
States, under the act of 1866,* and obtained a judgment
in his favor. The cause was then remanded to the Cass
County Court, and judgment by default was rendered against

Knowles and Harvey. In some respects the proceedings
seemed to have been conducted as a suit o1 attachment, the
property of the defendants (who resided in Minnesota) being

attached, and other creditors being allowed to come in to
participate in the proceeds. Nevertheless the record of the
proceedings contained, amongst other things, the copy of a
summons in the case, issued to the sheriff of Cass County,
against all the defendants, and a return thereto in the following words:
"I do hereby certify that I served the within writ, on the 14th
day of September, 1865, upon Alfred Knowles and Thomas Harvey, personally, by reading the same to them. And I further
certify that J. W. Bain cannot be found in my bailiwick."
* See it quoted, Case of the Sewing Machine Companies, 18 Wallace, 553.

60

]KNOWLES v. GASLIGHT AND COKE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The return was signed by the sheriff's deputy. This was
all that appeared in the record on the subject of service of
process on Knowles and Harvey, or in reference to their
appearance or non-appearance to the action. The defendant,
on the trial of the present action, contended that the return
of the sheriff was insufficient to charge him personally in
the former action, inasmuch as it did not show that service
had been made in the proper county, or where it was inade;
and, being overruled on this point, he offered to prove by
himself and Harvey that neither of them had in fact been
served with process, and that the return was false; the purpose of this proof being to show that the Cass County Court,
which rendered the judgment on which this action was
brought, never had jurisdiction of the person of either. The
court below (the case of Thompson v. Whitman,* in this court,
not having then been adjudged) excluded the testimony, on
the ground that the record could not be contradicted in a
collateral proceeding.
The case was brought here on a bill of exceptions.
Xr. R. Hf. Bigelow, for the plaintiff, reliedAs to the first point, on Allen v. Blunt,t ruled in the circuit by the late Mr. Justice Nelson; and,
As to the second, on Christmas v. .Russell,t and Cheerer v.
Wilson,ยง adjudged in this court.
.Mr. F. B. E. Cornell, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the first point, that the return was insufficient, the
plaintiff in error relies on a decision of Mr. Justice Nelson
at the circuit, in the case of Allen v. Blunt, in which it is
supposed to have been held that a return of service by the
United States marshal, without showing that the service
was made in his district, was insufficient to give the court
18 Wallace, 457.
j5 Wallace, 290.

t1 Blatehford, Circuit Court, 480.
S9 Id. 108.

Oct. 1873.]

KNOWLES V. GASLIGHT AND CKE COMPANY.

61

Opinion of the court.

jurisdiction of the person. What Justice Nelson held in
that case was this: that inasmuch as the eleventh section of
the Judiciary Act declares that "no suit shall be brought
before either of said courts against an inhabitant of the
United States, by any original process in any other district
than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall
be found at the time of serving the writ;" therefore, the
jurisdiction of said courts depends on service or inhabitancy
in the district, one of which should appear of record; and
inasmuch as the record in that case contained no allegation
on the subject, and the jurisdiction of the court depended
entirely on the marshal's return to the process, the return
was insufficient to give it. This authority, therefore, is not
in point. The case was in the United States court, and depended upon the peculiar phraseology of the act of Congress
referred to therein; whereas the case in Cass County, now
under consideration, was in a State court; and it is familiar
law that a court of general jurisdiction will be presumed to
have had jurisdiction of the cause and the parties until the
contrary appears. In our judgment, therefore, the return,
on its face, shows no ground of error. It will be presumed
that the service was made in the proper county.
But the defendant also offered to prove by himself and
Harvey that neither of them had ever in fact been served
with process, and that, in consequence, the court had never,
as to them, acquired jurisdiction of the person.
As this subject has been lately considered by us in the case
of Thomnpson v. Whidman, it is unnecessary to go over the
subject again. In our opinion the defendant had a right to
show by proof that he had never been served with process,
aud that the Circuit Court of Cass County never acquired
jurisdiction of his person. As this was refused him on the
ground that the evidence was inadmissible, the judgment
must be reversed. We do not mean to say that personal
service is in all cases necessary to enable a court to acquire
jurisdiction of the person. Where the defendant resides in
the State in which the proceedings are had, service at his
residence, and perhaps other modes of constructive service,

RAILROAD COMPANY V. CHURCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tnmy be authorized by the laws of the State. But in the case
of non-residents, like that under consideration, personal service cannot be dispensed with unless the defendant voluntarily appears.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and a
VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. CHURCH.
1, A writ of error lies from this court to the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia on a judgment confirming an assessment for damages by
the use of the street in front of the church of defendants in error,
although the proceedings before the jury and the marshal, and in the
Supreme Court, are governed by a statute of Maryland, which, by the
construction of the courts of that State, does not allow an appeal or
writ of error.
2. The early decisions of this court held that the right to the writ exists in
such cases by virtue of the appellate power of this court as defined in
the act of 1801, creating the Circuit Court of the District; and we are
governed by the same act.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The trustees of the Sixth Presbyterian Church, in the city
of Washington, instituted proceedings before the marshal
and a jury of the District of Columbia against the Baltimore
and Potomac Railroad Company, to recover from it damages
which the church had sustained by reason of the road of the
company having been run through a street in front of their
church. The jury assessed the damages at $11,500, and on
the return of this inquest into the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, the inquisition was confirmed, and a
judgment rendered that the trustees of the church recover
of the railroad company that sum, with costs. The company
having brought the case to this court on writ of error, a 11(tio was now made by the trustees of the church to dismiss
it for want of jurisdiction in this court.
This want of jurisdiction was based on two propositions:
ERROR

