Oct. 1873.]

HALL V. JORDAN.
Statement of the case.

HALL V. JORDAN.
1. Where the consideration in a deed is expressed to be so many dollars,
the stamp required is the same whether in point of fact the sum named
be paid in gold or in notes of the United States, made by law a legal
tender.
2. A party alleging that the stamp on a deed was too small (he being by the
law of the State where the deed was made obliged to put on the stamps),
who brought such a question here, delaying the judgment below for two
years and a half, punished under the Twenty-third Rule, by a judgment
of ten per cent. damages in addition to interest and costs.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Tennessee; the case
being thus:
Jordan, on the 1st of November, 1866, sold a tract of
laud to Hall & Conley, the consideration as expressed in the
deed being $13,000; the deed not stating, however, whether
this $13,000 was gold and silver coin, or notes of the United
States; a kind of notes, always up to this time, from the
time of their issue, less valuable than such coin; but which
in February, 1862, and afterwards had been made by act of
Congress a legal tender in the payment of debts, and which
in point of fact at the time of the sale were the universal
currency, to the exclusion of gold and silver as currency, of
all parts of the United States except parts on the Pacific
Coast.
In point of fact the consideration of this deed was one of
gold coin, or based on the value of coin; that is to say, $6500
were paid in gold coin when the deed was made, and an
agreement given to pay "on the 25th of December, 1867, an
amount of legal currency of the United States sufficient to
purchase $6890 of the present gold coin of the United
States;" this $6890 being the balance ($6500) of the $13,000
consideration-money, with interest added to the day of payment.
An act of Congress in force at the date of the deed,* enAct of June 30th, 1864, 15 Stat. at Large, 295.

HALL V. JORDAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

acted that on deeds of land there should be a stamp of "$1
for each $1000 of consideration-money," and fifty cents
for every fraction of the sum last named; and that no deed
not properly stamped should be received in evidence. The
act makes a provision, however, for the correction of unintentional error by application to the collector, and purchase
of the proper stamp. This deed was stamped with a stamp
for $13, the stamp confessedly proper for one when the consideration was $13,000 in notes of the United States.
On a question in the court below whether the deed was
properly stamped, or whether the stamp ought not to be
such as the amount of notes which the $13,000 of gold coin,
the actual consideration of the deed, would have boughtif the amount represented by them had been set forth in the
deed-required, that court held the stamp sufficient, and on
the 29th of June, 1871, the present writ of error was taken
to its judgment. The case came on to be heard here December 16th, 1873.
Messrs. B. Johnson and J. H. Imbree, for the plaintiff in
error:
It is a matter of universal knowledge that there has always
been a difference between the value of what are called
"legal tender notes" and of coin. At times, as in the summer of 1864, one day in which it required $285 of notes to
buy $100 of gold,* this difference has been immense; and it
has been frequently great. Nvow, the question is, may parties at a time when gold and silver have in fact no currencywhen the notes of the government are the sole currency of
the country, or certainly of all that part of it where the parties to this transaction lived-may parties put in their deeds
the value, in gold, of the property sold, and then pay stamps
on that value? the real thing which passes between them
being, all the while, not gold, but paper; not $13,000 in coin,
but a greater amount in notes; more or less greater according as the discount on paper in the market may be higher
or lower. We submit that they cannot, because a contrary
* See Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wallace, 512, note.

Oct. 1873.]

H2ALL V. JORDAN.
Opinion of the court.

rule will tend directly to frauds upon the revenue. In cases
of large deeds or of large mortgages the temptation will be
prevailing.

Mr. . P. Stanton, contra:
No man could tell on the 1st of November, 1866, how
much currency would be required to purchase gold on the
25th of December, 1867, or even that legal tenders would
not be equivalent to gold at that time.
But there has never been any law requiring the stamps on
deeds or other instruments to be regulated by the currency
values, when the transactions were for gold coin. The
stamp affixed to the deed was then exactly what the law
required. Supposing the plaintifl in error honestly doubted
this, they bad it in their power to correct the supposed error
by applying to the collector; and as it is evident no fraud
was intended, the correction would have cost them fifty
cents. It is apparent then, that the writ of error in this
case, which has delayed the proceedings in the court below
for two years and a half, was sued out "merely for delay,"
and comes strictly within the letter and spirit of the Twentythird Rule of this court, which declares that "in all cases
where a writ of error . . . shall appear to have been sued

out merely for delay, damages shall be awarded at the rate
of ten per cent. per annum on the amount of the judgment."
In addition, bythe practice in Tennessee, a vendee must
furnish deeds and stamps. In this proceeding, therefore,
the plaintiffs in error are endeavoring to take advantage of
their own wrong, as it was their duty to affix the proper
stamp to the deed. For this reason, as well as for those
already stated, the defendant in error asks for damages at
the rate of ten per cent., in addition to interest, in accordance with the rule aforesaid.
Mr. Justice OLIFFORD announced the judgment of this
court, affirming the judgment of the court below with costs,
interest,
AND TEN PER CENT. DAMAGES.
VOL. XIX.

18

