Oct. 1873.]

HEINE

v. THE LEVEE CommISSIoNERS.

655

Statement of the case.

Forfeiture of title to the land purchased, and of the money
paid for it, was made the penalty of false swearing in this
particular. An entry could not have been made, therefore,
by Van Brunt in trust for Warren; and if it could not have
been made, a court of equity will not decree that it was.
All contracts in violation of this important provision of the
act are void and are never enforced. It has been so decided
many times by the Supreme Court of Minnesota.* We are
satisfied with these decisions.
In our opinion, there was no error in the decision of the
government officers, or in the decree of the Supreme Court
of Minnesota.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

]1n1E

v. THE LEVEE CoMMISsIoITERs.

1. There can be no jurisdiction in equity to enforce the payment of corporation bonds until the remedy at law has been exhausted.
2. Where the law has provided that a tax shall be levied to pay such bonds,
a mandamus after judgment to compel the levy of the tax, in the nature
of an execution or process to enforce the judgment, is the only remedy.
3. The fact that this remedy has been shown to be unavailing does not confer
upon a court of equity the power to levy and collect taxes to pay the
debt.
4. The power to levy and collect taxes is a legislative function in this country
and does not belong to a court of equity, and can only be enforced by a
court of law, through the officers authorized by the legislature to levy
the tax, if a writ of mandamus is appropriate to that purpose.
6. Taxes are not liens unless declared so by the legislature under whose authority they are assessed. Still less can a lien be created by the mere
duty to assess taxes, which has not been performed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana.
This was a suit in chancery brought by Heine and others,
holders of bonds issued by what is called the board of levee
* St. Peter Co. v. Bunker, 5 MYinnesota, 199; Evans v. Folsom, Ib. 422;
Bruggerman v. Hterr, 7 Id. 343; 'cCue v. Smith, 9 Id. 259.

656

HEINE

v. THE

LEVEE COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the bondholders.

commissioners of the levee district for the parishes of Carroll and Madison of the State of Louisiana. The board thus
described was made a quasi corporation by the legislature of
Louisiana, with authority to issue the bonds and provide for
the payment of interest and principal by taxes levied upon
the real and personal property within the district. The bill
alleged a failure to levy these taxes and to pay the interest
on any part of said bonds, that the persons duly appointed
levee commissioners had pretended to resign their office for
the purpose of evading this duty, and that the complainants
bad applied in vain to the judge of the District Court, who
was by statute authorized to levy a tax on the alluvial lands
to pay the bonds if the levee commissioners failed to do so.
The prayer for relief was that the levee commissioners be
required to assess and collect the tax necessary to pay the
bonds and interest, and if, after reasonable time, they failed
to do so, that the district judge be ordered to do the same;
and for such other and further relief as the nature of the
case required.
No judgment at law had been recovered on the bonds or
any of them, nor any attempt to collect the money due by
suit in the common-law court.
A demurrer to the bill was sustained in the Circuit Court,
and the plaintiffs appealed from the decree of dismissal rendered on that demurrer.
Mr. Thomas Allen Clarke, for the appellants, contended:
That the commissioners having resigned could no longer
in their corporate capacity be sued at law.
That there was a contract between the bondholders and
the corporation not unlike an equitable mortgage; for that
the contract was not simply an agreement to pay money but
one to pay money out of a fund under the control of the
commissioners; that it belonged specially to equity to enforce such a contract.
That it was part of the contract that the taxes should pay
these bonds; that the holders had, therefore, a species of

Oct. 1873.]

HEINE V. THE LEVEE COMMISSIONERS.

657

Opinion of the court.

lien on the lands on which the taxes were to be laid; this
again being a matter specially of equitable cognizance.
That though the suit was by a bill in equity, yet that it
might be taken (other grounds of relief failing) as a petition
fi mandamus.
That the case, in short, was a very complicated case, such
as the law afforded no relief for; and that one was to be
worked out through equitable mechanism unless a shocking
injustice was to be tolerated.
Messrs. S. B. Walker, TV. Tanslall, and J E. Leonard, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented by the present case is not a new
one in this court. It has been decided in numerous cases,
founded on the refusal to pay corporation -bonds, that the
appropriate proceeding was to sue at law and by a judgment
of the court establish the validity of the claim and the
amount due, and by the return of an ordinary execution
ascertain that no property of the corporation could be found
liable to such execution and sufficient to satisfy the judgment. Then, if the corporation had authority to levy and
collect taxes for the payment of that debt, a mandamus
would issue to compel them to raise by taxation the amount
necessary to satisfy the debt.*
Unless, then, there is some difficulty or obstruction in the
way of this common-law remedy, chancery can have no jurisdiction.
It is said that by reason of the resignation of the levee
commissioners no suit can be sustained against them so as
to procure a judgment on which the mandamus may ultimately issue.
But the present suit is brought against these very men in
* Von Hoffman v. City of Quincy, 4 Wallace, 535; Supervisors v. United
States, lb. 435; Riggs v. Johnson County, 6 Id. 166; City of Galena v. Amy,
5 Id. 705, and many other cases in this court, and especially the case of
Walkley v. City of Mluscatine, 6 Id. 481.
42
VOL. XIX.

65'8

HEiNE v. THE LEVEE COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

their official character, and no difference can be seen in
their capacity to be sued in a court of law and a court of
equity. The same service of process is required in each.
The same officers serve the process, and the jurisdiction of
the court over the person is governed by precisely the same
principles in each case. The court of chancery possesses no
extraordinary powers to compel persons to submit to its
jurisdiction and litigate before it, not possessed by a common-law court, when the latter is competent to give relief.
This proposition was directly in issue and distinctly settled
in the case of Rees v. City of Watertown, at the present term.*
In that case the plaintiff had obtained judgment, issued
execution, which was i'eturned nulla bona, and had then procured a writ of mandamus, ordering the aldermen of the
city to levy the tax. The aldermen resigned before the writ
could be served, with intent to evade its effect. After other
aldermen were elected, a new writ was served on them, and
they in turn resigned, after an order to show cause why
they should not be punished for a contempt in failing to
obey the writ of mandamus. Notwithstanding all this, we
held that chancery had no jurisdiction, by a direct proceeding, to levy the tax or to seize the property of the citizens
and sell it for the satisfaction of the judgment.
That case was much stronger than the one before us, and
is unquestionably decisive of this. It is very clearly shown
that the total failure of ordinary remedies does not confer
upon the court of chancery an unlimited power to give relief. Such relief as is consistent with the general law of
the land, and authorized by the principles and practices of
the courts of equity, will, under such circumstances, be administered. But the hardship of the case, and the failure
of the mode of procedure established by law, is not sufficient to justify a court of equity to depart from all precedent and assume an unregulated power of administering
abstract justice at the expense of well-settled principles.
It is attempted in argument to support this exercise of
Supra, p. 107.

Oct. 1873.]

HEINE V.

THE LEvEE

OOMmISSI)NERS.

659

Opinion of the court.

authority by reference to some of the acknowledged grounds
of equity jurisdiction. One of these is the doctrine of specific performance of contracts. But while equity has, in
some cases, enforced in this manner a contract to deliver
specific stocks, there is no such case here. The plaintiffs
have their bonds or stocks. It is the money due on them
which they want now. And in this respect the case is one
of compensation in damages for a failure to pay the money
due on the bond. All that plaintiffs can get is this money
and interest, and that is precisely what a court of law would
give them. The almost universal rule on the subject of
specific performance, as regards contracts other than those
for real estate is, that where adequate compensation can be
made by the damages recoverable at law, equity will not
interfere.
It is said in argument that plaintiffs have a lien upon the
taxable property of the district for the payment of these
bonds, and that equity always enforces liens where no other
mode of enforcing them exists. Whether this be the true
doctrine of a court of equity to the full extent here claimed
we need not decide. Nor need we decide whether taxes
once lawfully levied are, until paid, a lien on the property
against which they are assessed, though it is laid down in
the very careful work of Judge Dillon, that taxes are not
liens upon the property against which they are assessed,
unless made so by the charter, or unless the corporation is
authorized by the legislature to declare them to be liens.*
But here no taxes have been assessed except those which
have been released by the bondholders accepting new bonds
for the interest of the year so assessed. And it is too clear
for argument that taxes not assessed are no liens, and that
the obligation to assess taxes is not a lien on the property
on which they ought to be assessed. This was one of the
points urged and overruled in the case of Rees v. Watertown.
The court is asked if it should fail to find any principle
peculiar to courts of equity on which the bill can be sustained, to treat it as a petition for the writ of mandamus.
* 2 Dillon on Corporations, 659.

660

HEINE V. THE LEVEE COMMSSIONERS.

[SUp. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

This would ignore the well-established principle of the
Federal courts that the line between the equitable and common-law jurisdiction must be maintained, and that a suit
must be of the one character or the other, and be prosecuted by pleadings and processes belonging to each class of
jurisdiction.
Mandamus is essentially and exclusively a common-law
remedy and is unknown to the equity practice. But if this
were otherwise it is the well-settled doctrine of this court
that the Circuit Courts cannot use the writ of mandamus as
an original and independent remedy, but are limited to its
use as a process in the enforcement of rights when jurisdiction has been already acquired for other purposes. In fact,
in the class of cases in which it is here sought it is a writ in
execution of the judgment of the court already rendered,
and can only be used because it is an appropriate process
for that purpose.*
The Circuit Court cannot, therefore, issue the writ if the
bill could be treated merely as a petition on the commonlaw side of the court, praying for that remedy.
There does not appear to be any authority fbunded on the
recognized principles of a court of equity on which this bill
can be sustained. If sustained at all it must be on the very
broad ground that because the plaintiff finds himself unable
to collect his debt by proceedings at law, it is the duty of a
court of equity to devise some mode by which it can be done.
It is, however, the experience of every day and of all men,
that debts are created which are never paid, though the
creditor has exhausted all the resources of the law. It is a
misfortune which in the imperfection of human nature often
admits of no redress. The holder of a corporation bond
must in common with other men submit to this calamity,
when the law affords no relief.
The power we are here asked to exercise is the very deli* McIntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504; McClung v. Silliman, 6 Wheaton,
601 ; Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 526; Riggs v. Johnson County, 6
Wallac,, 197; The Secretary v. McGarrahan, 9 Id. 311 ; Bath County v.
Amy, 13 Id. 244.

Oct. 1873.]

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS V. GORMAN.

661

Syllabus.

cate one of taxation. This power belongs in this country to
the legislative sovereignty, State or National. In the case
before us the National sovereignty has nothing to do with it.
The power must be derived from the legislature of the State.
So far as the present case is concerned, the State has delegated the power to the levee commissioners. If that body
has ceased to exist, the remedy is in the legislature either to
assess the tax by special statute or to vest the power in some
other tribunal. It certainly is not vested, as in the exercise
-of an original jurisdiction, in any Federal court. It is unreasonable to suppose that the legislature would ever select
a Federal court for that purpose. It is not only not one of
the inherent powers of the court to levy and collect taxes,
but it is an invasion by the judiciary of the Federal government of the legislative functions of the State government.
It is a most extraordinary request, and a compliance with it
would involve consequences no less out of the way ofjudicial
procedure, the end of which no wisdom can foresee.
In the case of Walkley v. City of Muscatine and Rees v. City
of Watertown, already cited, we have distinctly refused to
enter upon this course, and we see no reason in the present
case to depart from the well-considered judgment of the
court in those cases, especially the latter.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Dissenting, Mr. Justice CLIFFORD and Mr. Justice
SWAYNE.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY did not sit.

BOARD OF OM MISSIONERS

v.

GORMAN.

1. A writ of error or appeal may operate as a supersedeas under the eleventh
section of the act of June 1st, 1872, "to further the administration of
justice" (and which allows any person desiring to have a judgment, decree, or order, &c., reviewed on error or appeal, and to stay proceedings
during the peandency of such writ of error or appeal, to "give the

