Oct. 1873.]

WILLIAMS V. BAXIKHEAD.

Statement of the case.

could never be sold, and the defendants could not procure
the money from any other source, the debt should never be
paid. Such a result would be a mockery of justice.* The
question of reasonable time, as the case was presented, was
one to be determined by the court.t When the suit was instituted more than five years had elapsed from the date of
the instrument. This was much mcre than a reasonable
time for the fulfilment of the undertaking of the defendants,
and the plaintiff was entitled to recover.
The Circuit Court instructed the jury correctly, and the
judgment is
AYFIRMED.

WILLIAMS ET AL. V. BANKHEAD.
1. The bare title of a cause at the head of one or two orders of court-these
being the only parts of a record in a concurrent proceeding sent here-in which orders the defendant Is stated to be G. 31. " el aL" is not sufficient to show that a partner of G. Al., to wit, one J. B.-not anywhere
named in any portion of the record sent, was a defendant and party to
the proceeding.
2. Where a proceeding in equity concerns the disposal of a specific fund, a
person claiming the fund, and liable by a decree to have it wholly swept
from him, is an indispensable party.
8. The general rules in equity relative to parties and the qualifications to
the rules stated.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Arkansas; the case being thus:
In 1853, James I. Branch, a cotton planter, in Desha
County, Arkansas, opened an account with George McGregor, Nathan Aloway, and James Baukhead, of New
Orleans, partners, under the name of McGregor, Alloway
* Hicks v. Shouse, 17 Ben Monroe, 487; Ubsdell et al. v. Cunningham, 22
Missouri, 124.
t Frothingham v. Dutton, 2 Greenleaf, 255; Kingsley v. Wallis, 14 Maine,
57; Manning v. Sawyer, 1 Hawks, 37; Cocker et al. v. Franklin Hemp and
Flax Manufacturing Company, 3 Sumner, 530.

564

WILLIAMS V.

BANKRHEAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

& Co., commission merchants, and in that and subsequent
years became largely indebted to them for advances and
supplies. In 1854 lie executed to them an open mortgage
on his plantation and slaves to secure all balance of indebtedness, whateier it might be from time to time. In 1859
the firm sued him in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Arkansas for an alleged balance
of $20,000. He denied that he owed more than $8000, and
in 1860 he filed a bill in the court below for an injunction
and an account, referring incidentally to the mortgage which
he had given, as part of the history of their transactions.
Bankhead, already mentioned as a member of the firm of
McGregor, Alloway & Co., and who finally succeeded to
the entire interest iu it, filed an answer to the bill giving
his version of the accounts, and praying a foreclosure of the
mortgage and sale of the plantation to pay the balance due.
It seemed that a cross-bill was also filed by him, but it was
not contained in the record as it came to this court. The
civil war having suspended the proceedings, the case was
redocketed in 1866. Branch died in 1867, and his administrator, one McNiell, revived the original chancery suit in his
own name. In 1870 Bankhead filed a supplemental crossbill, alleging that he had learned that Branch, when he
gave the mortgage, did not have a complete title to the
plantation, -but only a contract for the purchase thereof,
which he had not complied with, and that by proceedings in
the State court of Desha County it had been decreed that,
unless the balance of purehase-money was paid, the property
must be delivered up to the vendor (one Isaac Bolton), and
that the payments which Branch had made, amounting to
$3666.66, with interest from 1854, should be refunded to his
said administrator, McNieU; and that by subsequent proceedings in the same case, wherein the administrator had
allowed a decree to be taken against him pro confesso, this
sum was directed to be paid to Mary, the widow of the said
James H. Branch, under a pretended marriage settlement.
This supplemental bill of Baukhead submitted that the decree
did not conclude his, Bankhead's, rights, " as he was not a party

Oct. 1873.]

WILLIAMS V. BANKHEAD.

Statement of the case.

thereto, and the merits of his cause were not in fact adjudicated by the court, as he in fact knew nothing of the pendency of the claim or suit at the time." He now prayed,
therefbre, that this money might be paid to him on his claim.
McNiell, the administrator of Branch, Seth Bolton (devisee
of Isaac Bolton, the vendor of the plantation), and one Williams, the tenant in possession of the plantation, were made
parties to this supplemental cross-bill. They answered it and
excepted to it, and it was ordered to be struck from the files.
McNiell, in his answer, referring to the $3666.66, and undertaking to give a history of it, and mentioning as part of
the same that Bolton had agreed to sell to Branch for a
much larger sum, payable in instalments, a plantation on
which James H. Branch paid the $3666.66 on account, giving
bond with a certain Joseph Branch as security for the remaining instalments, continued thus:
"The remaining instalments upon said land being due and
remaining unpaid, Bolton commenced a suit in chancery in the
Desha Circuit Court to enforce their payment against said
land, and made the said James H. Branch, Joseph Branch,
George McGregor, Nathaniel Alloway, and said James Bankhead, all parties defendant to said suit, the said James H. and
Joseph Branch as resident, and the said McGregor, Alloway &
Bankhead as non-residents of the State of Arkansas, and filed
with his bill the proper affidavit that said McGrdgor, Alloway
& Bankhead were non-residents; that all of said defendants
were notified of said suit according to law, the resident defendants
by process, and the said non-resident defendants by order of
publication, duly executed by advertisement, as required by law,
and proof thereof regularly made and filed with the papers of
the cause."
It appeared from the answers of MceNiell and Williams to
the supplemental cross-bill, and to a subsequent petition filed
by Bankhead, that the plantation had come to the possession
of Williams under the widow of Branch, and that he held
by virtue of a lease from her, at the same time having a contract for the purchase of the property from the administrator
as soon as the widow's claim should be satisfied.

WILLIAMS V.

BANICHEAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

A portion of the proceedings and a copy of the decree
in the Desha County Court were annexed to the said crossbill. It showed quite clearly that the widow and minor
children of Branch had appeared in that suit, and that the
former had filed a cross-bill setting up her claim to the land
or to the fund in question, which had been adjudicated in
her favor. But the name of Bankhead was nowhere specifically mentioned as a party to the proceeding. There did,
however, appear these following orders of court, in the caption or style of which the name of his partner, McGregor,
was mentioned:
"STATE

OF ARKANSAS,
COUNTY OF DESHA.

"Be it remembered that at a Circuit Court begun and held in
and for the county of Desha, on the chancery side thereof, &e.
,. present and presiding, the Hon. W. 3M. Harrison, judge.
Court was proclaimed in due form of law, when the following proceedings were had, to wit:
*

ISAAC BOLTOx

1

JAMES H. BRANCH, JOSEPH BRANCH, AND
George McGregor.

j

"On this day, on motion, the mandate and opinion of the Suprerue Court of Arkansas is filed, which opinion and mandate is
in the words and figures following, to wit:
Cc
STATE OF ARKANSAS,
IN THE SUPREME COURT, SCT.
"Be it remembered, that at a term of the Supreme Court of the State, begun and held at the court-house in the city of Little Rock, on the first Monday in October, A.D. 1866, among others were the following proceedings
had, to wit:
ISAAC BOLTON, APPELLANT,

V.t

Appeal from Desha Circuit

Court, chancery.
McGregor el at., APPELLEES.
"This cause came on to be heard upon transcript of the record of the Circuit Court of Desha County, in chancery, and was argued in this court by
the solicitors of the parties. On consideration whereof," &c.

JAMES H. BRANCH, JOSEPH BRANCH, George

In April, 1871, a decree was pronounced in the Circuit

Oct. 1873.]

WILLIAMS V. BANKHEAD.
Argument for the widow.

Court below, in favor of Bankhead for $8000, with interest
from 1860, with a direction that Meiiell, the administrator
of Branch, as soon as he should receive from Bolton the sum
of $3666.66, and the interest thereon, which by the State
court had been decreed to be refunded, should pay it over
to Bankhead, and leave was given to the latter to institute
such further proceedings against Bolton, or others in possession of the plantation, as might enable him to obtain the
benefit of this decree.
In pursuance of this last permission, Bankhead immediately filed a petition against McNiell, Bolton, and Williams,
alleging a conspiracy between them and the widow of James
H. Branch, and one Cash, administrator of Isaac Bolton,
the vendor, to defraud him, Bankhead, out of the said sum
of $3666.66, by procuring the same to be paid over to the
said widow, upon a pretended claim set up by her. The
petition fnrther alleged that the decree made by the Desha
County Court, awarding the said money to her, was fraudulently procured, he, Bankhead, not being a party to the proceedings. The petition prayed for a decree against Bolton,
to compel him to pay the money into court or to the petitioner, and for a receiver to take possession of the land and
receive the rents. The widow and Cash were not made
parties, because, as the petition alleged, they did not reside
in the State of Arkansas. The defendants who were made
parties answered the petition, setting up, amongst other
things, that the widow was an indispensable party to the
proceedings, and that the decree of the Desha County Court
was conclusive in her favor.
The court below decreed in favor of Bankhead, and that
unless the defendants should pay to him the said sum of
$3666.66, with the interest due thereon, by a certain day, the
plantation should be sold to satisfy the original decree.
Appeals were taken from both the original and supplemental decrees.
Mr. A. E1. Garland,for the appellants:
1. Tke court below had no jurisdiction.

The whole ques-

WILLIAMS V. BANKHEAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the mortgagee.

tion had been settled by a decree in the State court for
Desha County, in no wise annulled. Though the extracts
which the record before this court give us of the proceedings in the State court are not full, they are enough to show
that Bankhead was a party. The captions or titles to the
orders are sufficient proof of who the parties to the case were.
In the title to the mandate of the Supreme Court George
McGregor el al. are expressly mentioned as the defendants.
Who were these "al. ?" Who could they be but the other
partners of the firm? Bankhead, of course, included as the
one chiefly or alone interested. Although in the caption of
the case in the Desha County Court, the "al." is omitted,
yet the suit is palpably that same one which has come down
from the Supreme Court, where the "al." is set forth.
The omission is a plain clerical error, amendable, and to be
amended, by what appears in the caption meant to be copied;
for the caption in the inferior court was to be the same as
that in the superior, if the last was right. That the last was
right is certain, for McGregor had nothing to do with the
suit but in connection with the firm of which Bankhead was
a member even more than he.
2. But, however this may be, it is quite plain that the
widow should have been made a party. She claimed this
money, and had a judicial decree awarding it to her. The
proceeding below sweeps it all away from her, without her
having had a chance to be heard. The law will not endure
this.
.Messrs. Clark and Williams, contra:
1. The captions or titles to the orders of court prove
nothing but that the clerk made such captions. Even if
James Bankhead's name was set out specifically and at
large, as a defendant, the fact would not show either that he
was served or that he voluntarily, in some way, personally
or by counsel, appeared. And unless he did so in some
way appear, he is not concluded by the decree in the Desha
County Court.
2. The widow is not a necessary party to the present suit.

Oct. 1873.]

WILLIAMS V. BANKHEAD.

569

Opinion of the court.

This court would only refuse to proceed when it is evident
that the subject-matter cannot be disposed of, and ample jus6ice done.* Her interest is set out fully in the record, and
being junior to that of the appellee cannot be maintained
here, unless this court shall consider itself absolutely concluded
by the State court decree, in which event the relief prayed
would be refused on that account, whether or not she was a
party.
The most that could happen by her not being made a
party would be the exposure of Bolton and MeNiell, to be
called on by her after having paid the money to Bankhead.
But the factb of the case, and the decree of this court, would
be their answer.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case James Bankhead obtained a decree for $8000
due him from James H. Branch, and for the specific application by way of payment to him oil said decree of $3666.66
due to Branch's estate, for the reimbursement of money paid
by the latter on a plantation which he had mortgaged to
Bankhead, but for which he had never acquired full title.
The State court of Desha County, in a suit brought therein,
had decreed that the plantation must be delivered back to
the vendor, and that the latter must refund the amount paid
o it, which was the sum above stated. The State court, on
a cross-bill filed by Branch's widow, had also decided that
the reimbursement-money was in equity payable to her as
her separate property under a marriage settlement. But
the Circuit Court in this case, in which the widow was not
a party, decreed that the same fund should be paid to Bankhead, to whom Branch had mortgaged the plantation, and,
in case it was not paid by the vendor in a certain time, the
plantation should be sold to raise the amount due on the
mortgage. The excuse for not making the widow a party
was that she did not reside in Arkansas and could not be
served with process.
* Payne v. Hook, 7 Wallace, 431.

WILLIAMS V. BANKHEAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The parties actually before the court were one MNiell,
the personal representative of Branch, Bolton, the devisee
of the vendor of the plantation, and Williams, the tenant in
possession of the plantation, who had rented it from the
widow of Branch, she having retained possession under the
alleged marriage settlement. On the other hand, the defendants contended (and that is one ground of appeal) that
Bankhead was a party to the proceedings in the State court
and was bound by the decree there made. This, however,
was controverted by him.
The other ground is that the widow of Branch is an indispensable party in this case.
As to the first ground, it is undoubtedly true that Bankhead would be bound by the decree of the State court if he
was a party to the proceedings. But he alleges that he was
not a party, and the proof on the subject is, not sufficient to
show that ie was a party. The record of the proceedings
in the Desha County Court (since the war) was put in evidence, and is before us. It contains nothing to show that
Bankbead, or his copartners, were parties to the suit, except
the bare title of the cause at the head of one or two orders,
in which the names of George McGregor, in one case, and
George McGregor et al. in -nother, appear as defendants.
iNeither the original petition nor complaint, the process, nor
anything else that would give light on the subject, is contained in the record as given to us. In the answer of
McNiell to Bankhead's amended and supplemental cross
bill, which was struck from the files, it is positively alleged
that he and his partners were made parties to the proceedings in the Desha County Court as non-resident defendants,
and that a regular order of publication for their appearance
was made and published, and that they actually knew of the
suit and took part in it. But these allegations were not responsive to the bill, and we have nothing else on the subject
6ufficiently explicit to show the truth of the case.
The other ground of appeal, namely, that the widow was
an indispensable party, plesents a more serious question.
On the one hand it is said that, not being a party, her rights

Oct. 1878.]

WILLAMS V. BANKHEAD.
Opinion of the court.

were not concluded ; and that the only inconvenience arising
from proceeding with the case without her was the double
liability to which Bolton and the administrator of Branch
became exposed by haVing to pay her and Bankhead both,
under contrary decrees of different courts. The general
rule as to parties in chancery is, that all ought to be made
parties who are interested in the controversy, in order that
there may be an end of litigation. But there are qualifications of this rule arising out of public policy and the necessities of particular cases. The true distinction appears to
be as follows: First. Where a person will be directly affected
by a decree, he is an indispensable party, unless the parties
are too numerous to be brought before the court, when the
case is subject to a special rule. Secondly. Where a person
is interested in the controversy, but will not be directly
affected by a decree made in his absence, he is not an indispensable party, but he should be made a party if possible,
and the court will not proceed to a decree without him if
he can be reached. Thirdly. Where he is not interested in
the controversy between the immediate litigants, but has an
interest in the subject-matter which may be conveniently
settled in the suit, and thereby prevent further litigation, he
may be a party or not, at the option of the complainant.
In the present case, if the question were one of mere personal liability on the part of Bolton, McNiell, and Williams,
it might have been admissible to proceed without making
the widow of Branch a party, inasmuch as she was not a
resident of Arkansas, and could not at the time be made a
party in the Circuit Court without being served with process in the district of Arkansas or voluntarily appearing to
the suit. The act to further the administration of justice,
by which an order of publication for the appearance of nonresident defendants is provided for, if it would apply to the
case, had not then been passed. But this is not a case of
mere personal liability. It concerns the disposal of a specific
fund, in which the widow claims an interest. If the sum
of $3666.66 mentioned in the decree is not paid, the plantation is directed to be sold in order to raise the amount of

572

STEVENSON V.

WILLIAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Bankhead's claim. And this plantation is in the possession
of the widow by her tenants. She is to receive the rents
and profits thereof until her claim is satisfied by the payment of the said sum of $3666.66 and the interest due
thereon, awarded her by the Desha County Court. Her interests, therefore, are directly affected by the decree.
Under these circumstances we think that she was an indispensable party. The decree, therefore, must be REVERSED,
and the cause remanded to be proceeded in
AcCORDING TO LAW.

STEVENSON V. WILLIAMS.

1. The act of Congress of March 2d, 1867, under which a removal may be
had of causes from a State to a Federal court, only authorizes a removal
where an application is made before final judgment in the court of original jurisdiction, where the suit is brought. It does not authorize a
removal after an appeal has been taken from such judgment of the court

of original jurisdiction to the Supreme Court of the State.
2. Where the judgment of a State court was annulled by the decree of a
court of the same State, on the ground that the notes on which the judg-

ment was rendered were given for a loan of Confederate money, and
that the transactions which resulted in the acquisition of the notes were

had between enemies during the late civil war, in violation cf the proclamation of the President forbidding commercial intercourse with the
enemy, this court cannot review the ruling in these particulars. It
conflicts with no part of the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United
States, and presents no Federal question.

to the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
Alfred Williams, of Louisiana, a person with no property,
married in 1842 Catharine Stewart, the possessor of a large
ERROR

estate there. Three children were the fruit of the marriage.

The wife died in 1854; the husband in 1863. During Mrs.
Williams's life her husband managed her property. There
was no marriage settlement; and the community of acquests
and gains which existed among them under the Louisiana
Code, though terminating with the wife's death, was never

settled by the husband.

