548

THE CONFEDERATE NOTE CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

THE

CONFEDERATE NOTE CASE.

THE ATLANTIC, TENNESSEE AND OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY, THas CHARLOTTE AND SOUTH CAROLINA RAILROAD COMPANY, JOSEPH WILSON
AND ANDERSON MITCHELL,

THE CAROLINA NATIONAL BANK OF COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA, t. D.
CHILDS, AND C. H. MANSON.

1 Notes issued by the Confederate government having become the currency
in which contracts were made and business conducted in the insurrectionary States, during the recent civil war, and such notes having been
designated by general custom as notes for so many "dollars," parol
evidence is admissible, where suit is brought.., to enforce a contract
payable in "dollars," and made during the war, to prove-the above
condition of things being first shown-that the term "dollars" as used
in the contract meant, in fact, Confederate notes. In the absence of
such evidence the presumption of law would be that by the term "dollars." the lawful currency of the United States was intended. Thorington v. Smith (8 'Wallace, 1) explained.
2. The ordinance of North Carolina of 1865 declared that all existing contracts solvable in money, whether under seal or not, made after the depreciation of Confederate currency, before the 1st day of May, 1865,
and then unfulfilled (except official bonds, and penal bonds payable t,)
the State), should "be deemed to have been made with the understanding that they were solvable in money of the value of the said currency ;"
but at the same time provided that it should be "competent for either
of the parties to show, by parol or other relevant testimony, what the
understanding was in regard to the kind of currency in which the same
were solvable," and that in such case "the true understanding" should
regulate the value of the contract. Held, That the understanding of the
parties might be shown from the nature of the transaction, and the
attendant circumstances, ai satisfactorily as from the language used;
and particularly that it might be shown from the length of time during
which the contracts had to run before maturing; and that accordingly
when bonds of a railroad company were issued in May, 1862, payable
at dates varying from seven to thirteen years afterwards, the inference was justified that the company intended at the time of issuing
them, that the bonds should be paid in lawful money instead of Confederate notes.
3. The interest payable on a bond, issued as abovementioned, follows the
character of the principal, and is payable in like currency.
4. Usury, as.a defence, must be specially pleaded or set up in the answer to
entitle it to consideration.

Oct. 1873.]

THE CONFEDERATE

NOTE CASE.

Statement of the case.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of North
Carolina; the case being thus:
In May, 1862, the Atlantic, Tennessee and Ohio Railroad
Company, a corporation chartered by the State of North
Carolina, issued its coupon bonds, in sums of $500, to the
amount of $151,000, payable at different periods from November, 1869, to November, 1875, with interest at the rate
of six per cent. a year, payable semi-annually. The bonds
were indorsed and their payment guaranteed by the Charlotte and South Carolina Railroad Company, a corporation
also chartered by the State of North Carolina; and they
stated on their face that they might be converted into the
stock of the company issuing them, at par, by the holder.
The bonds were payable to the company last abovementioned, or bearer, and were secured by a deed of trust of the
railroad, buildings, and franchise of the company executed
to Joseph Wilson and Anderson Mitchell. The deed stipulated that, in case the company failed to pay the principal
and interest on the bonds as they became due, the trustees
should, upon request of the holders of the bonds, or of their
guarantor, proceed to sell the property, or so much thereof
as might be necessary, and apply the proceeds of the sale
to the payment of the bonds.
The Carolina National Bank,L D. Childs, and .H. Manson, having become the holders and owners of $26,000 of
these bonds, and the railroad company having failed to pay
either principal or interest, they requested the trustees to
proceed and sell the property covered by the trust deed, and
to distribute the proceeds pursuant to its provisions. With
this request the trustees declined to comply, alleging as a
reason that the parties differed as to the amount to be paid.
The above-named holders of the bonds, accordingly filed a
bill in the court below against the two railroad companies,
and the trustees, Wilson and Mitchell, to enforce the execution of the trusts of the deed.
In their answer, the railroad companies averred that they
had at all times been and now were both able and ready to
adjust their debt to the complainants upon a just basis of

THE CONFEDERATE NOTE CASE.

Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

the value of their bonds and of the coupons due in lawful
money of the United States, as soon as their value could be
ascertained; but that the complainants demanded payment
in full of said bonds and all accrued interest in the said
lawful money, with which demand the defendants had refused to comply.
The trustees in their answer admitted that they had received notice from the complainants of the default of the
Atlantic, Tennessee and Ohio Railroad Company, in paying
its alleged debt to the complainants, and that for the payment thereof they, the trustees, had been requested to take
steps for the sale of the property conveyed to them by the
deed of trust; but that they had been prevented from so
doing on account of the conflict between the complainants
and the officers of the said company as to the measure of
value of the bonds; the complainants claiming payment in
full in lawful money of the United States, and the former
asserting that the bonds were solvable in Confederate currency, and, as such, were legally liable to be scaled to their
true value in money of the United States.
By a convention assembled in North Carolina in October,
1865, an ordinance was on the 18th of that month adopted,
bearing the title of "An ordinance declaring what laws and
ordinances are in force, and for other purposes." The third
section was as follows:
"It shall be the duty of the General Assembly to provide a
scale of depreciation of the Confederate currency from the time
of its first issue to the end of the war; and all executory contracts, solvable in money, whether under seal or not, made after
the depreciation of said currency before the 1st day of May,
1865, and yet unfulfilled (except official bonds and penal bonds
payable to the State) shall be deemed to have been made with
the understanding, that they were solvable in money of the value
of the said currency; it shall be competent for either of the
parties to show by parol or other relevant testimony, what the
understanding was in regard to the kind of currency in which
the same are solvable; and in such case, the true understanding
shall regulate the value of the contract: Provided, That in case

Oct. 1873.]

THE CONFEDERATE NOTE CASE.

551

Statement of the case.
the plaintiff in any suit upon such contract, will make an affidavit that it was solvable in other currency than that above
referred to, then such presumption shall cease, and it shall be
presumed to be payable in such currency as shall be mentioned
in the affidavit, subject to explanation by evidence as aforesaid."
The legislature, on the 12th of March in the ensuing year,
passed two acts connected with the subject. The first was
as follows:
"An Act relating to Debts contracted during the late War.
"WHEREAS a great many debts, which were contracted during the war are yet unsettled, said debts having been incurred
for property bought at irregular and extravagant prices, or for
currency of a depreciated value. And whereas the late State
convention made it obligatory on this General Assembly to provide a scale of depreciated currency for the settlement of these
debts. And whereas this General Assembly finds great difficulty
in fixing a scale which will secure justice to citizens of all sections of the State. And whereas, in the opinion of this General
Assembly, no scale which will do justice to all sections of the
State can be adopted, therefore,
"SEcTION 1. Be it enacted, That in all civil actions which may
arise in courts of justice for debts contracted during the late
war, in which the nature of the obligation is not set forth, nor
the value of the property for which said debts were created is
stated, it shall be admissible for either party to show on trial by
affidavit or otherwise, what was the consideration of the contract, and the jury in making up their verdict shall take the
same into consideration and determine the value of said contract
in present currency, in the particular locality in which it is to
be performed, and render their verdict accordingly."
The second act, after reciting the terms of the ordinance,
was entitled and enacted thus:
"An Act to establish a scale of depreciationof Confederate currency.
"Be it enacted, &c., That the following scale of depreciation
be and the same is hereby adopted and established as the
measure of value of one gold dollar in Confederate currency for
each month, and the fractional parts of the month of December

552

THE CO1qFBDERATE NOTE CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

1864, from the 1st day of November, 1861, to the 1st day of
May, 1865, to wit:
Scale of Depreciationof Confederate Currency, the Gold Dollarbeing the Unit
and Measure of Value from November 1st, 1861, to May 1st, 1865.
Months.

1861.

1862.

1863.

January,
$...........$1
20 $3 00
February,
1...........1
30
3 00
farch ................
150
4 00
April .............
...
150
5 00
31ay .
...........
150
550
June.....
............
150
6 50
July ......
...........
150
9 00
August ....
. . . . . ...
...
150 14 00
September,.
22.......
00 14 00
October,.
............
00 14 00
November,.
........
$1 10 2 50 15 00
December .. . . . . .
1 15 250 20 00
December
to 10th, inclusive.st..........
(L 10th to 20th,
"
.........
1
20th to 30th,
.........

1864.

1865.

$21 00
21 00
23 00
20 00
19 00
18 00
21 00
23 00
25 00
26 00
30 00
....
35 00
42 00

$50 00
50 00
60 00
100 00
....
....
....
....
....
....
....
....
....
....

4900

....

In repeated instances, after the issue of the bonds and up
to July, 1863, the officers of the Atlantic, Tennessee and
Ohio Railroad Company in dealing in its bonds spoke of
them as having a superior value, and as not being subject to
the fluctuations of Confederate currency. The following
was one instance of several.
The president, William Johnson, in March, 1863, upon a
settlement as guardian of his ward, upon his coming of age,
paid over to him thirteen of these bonds, and assured him
at the time that they were worth more than their face in
good money, and that he would put nothing of a Confederate
value upon him; that they were so good that he would not
let him have them unless he would also take $5000 of the
stock of the company. The ward took-the bonds and stock
at their par value. This was less than one year from their
date.
The treasurer, who countersigned these bonds, seemed
never to have "understood" that they were to be charged
as Confederate paper, and a subsequent treasurer stated that
this view of the subject was never taken by the officers or

Oct. 1873.]

THE COIFEDERATE NOTE CAsE.

553

Argument in favor of payment in Confederate notes.

board of directors until May, 1870, when the president decided that the bonded debt was subject to the Confederate
scale. Prior to that time, under the supervision of the president, he had submitted his printed exhibits of the condition
of the company, stating their bonds as liabilities at their
"face value." These exhibits were approved by the stockholders in convention assembled.
The Circuit Court, after declaring "that the bonds and
coupons issued by the Atlantic, Tennessee and Ohio Railroad Company, in the pleadings mentioned, were not issued
as payable in the paper currency of the late Confederate
States, and are not subject to any deduction on that account,
but that the same are payable in good and lawful money of
the United States, and should have been discharged in such
money when payment was demanded of said railroad company," decreed a reference to the clerk to ascertain the
amount due the complainants, and others holding similar
bonds of the company, and that upon default in payment of
the amount found due for thirty days after report made and
notification thereof, the property described in the trust-deed
be sold by the trustees, and that the proceeds upon confirmation of the sale be applied by them, after discharging the
expenses of executing their trust, to the payment of the
amount reported due. From this decree the defendants appealed to this court.
Mr. W. iV. .Boyce, for the appellants:
Obligations simply to pay "dollars" during the war, made
within the Confederate States, should be taken to intend
Confederate currency. That currency was the only currency in general use. All taxes, all salaries, all debts were
paid in it. The army was paid in it; trust funds were invested in it; the banks received and paid it out universally.
Contracts during that period were based on it.* In the disordered condition of the currency, the presumption of the
* Pharis v. Dice, 21 Grattan, 309; Rilb v. Peyton, lb. 395; Walker v.
Pierce, lb. 726; Hale v Wilkinson, lb. 88; Dearing's Admr. v. Rucker, 18
Id. 439; Neely v. McFadden, 2 Richardson's Law (New Suriesl 174.

THE CONFEDERATE NOTE CASE.

[Sup. CL.

Argument in favor of payment in Federal money.

common law as to promise to pay "dollars" would have
been a presumption contrary to fact. The form of almost
every contract to pay Confederate money was to pay so
many "dollars" generally, but certainly no one supposed
that the dollars intended were dollars in Federal money.
Thoringlon v. Smilh,* in this court, seems to settle the
question in issue. This court, speaking by Chase, C. J.,
and referring to these Confederate notes there says:
..." They were the only measure of value which the people had,
and their use was a matter of almost absolute necessity. In the
light of these facts, it seems hardly less than absurd to say that these
dollars must be regardedas identical in kind and value with the dollars which constitute the money of the United States. We cannot
shut our eyes to the fact that they were essentially different in
both respects."
The ordinance of the convention of North Carolina of
October, 1865, establishes, as a presumption of law, that
contracts to pay "dollars" made during the war, are presumed to be payable in Confederate currency, subject to
evidence of a different intent. And the valuation by statute
of North Carolina of value of Confederate currency for
month of May, 1862, shows that the demand of the complainants is unreasonable.
The-learned counsel then went into argument based on a
special history, which he gave of the bonds, to show that if
payable in full, in lawful money of the United States, they
were void as usurious.
[In view of the decision hereinafter made, p. 560, on the
point thus set up, the Reporter has not in his statement given
any special history of the bonds; and now does not give any
argument on the point as made.]
Mr. H. W. Guion, contra, who contended among other
things-if the-facts of the case did not repel all presumptions
that the bonds were payable in Confederate notes, and if
these bonds were within the meaning of the statutes of
8 Wallace, 13.

Oct. 1873.]

THE

CONFEDERATE NOTE CASE.

555

Opinion of the court.

North Carolina-that those statutes impaired the obligation
of contracts, and so were unconstitutional ; that the parties
had made in 1862 a contract, using in it the well-known
word of" dollars ;" that it was for the courts to interpret the
meaning of the word in accordance with the settled rules of
law and evidence; that these acts passed in 1866 changed
this state of things, and assumed that the parties meant not
what the words, judicially interpreted, declared, but what
the legislature determined to be the presumable and presumed meaning; that the acts put the whole burden of
proof upon him who previously was not called on to make
any proof; that they thus changed both the meaning which
the law gave to words, the tribunal which should settle that
meaning and the rules of evidence to ascertain it; that the
acts were retrospective; operating on existing contracts, and
as a practical result converting valuable securities into worthless paper.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
The question presented, and the sole question under the
pleadings, is whether the bonds issued in May, 1862, of the
Atlantic, Tennessee and Ohio Railroad Company, a corporation created by the State of North Carolina, were solvable
in Confederate notes or in the legal currency of the United
States. The company, in its answer, expresses a readiness
to pay in legal currency the equivalent of the bonds, if their
values be estimated upon the assumption that the bonds
were payable in Confederate notes.
In support of the position taken by the company, and the
trustees representing the company, reliance is placed upon
the decision of this court in Thoringlon v. Smith,* and the
ordinance of North Carolina of October, 1865, relating to
contracts made during the war, and the Scaling Act of the
State passed in 1866.
The treasury notes of the Confederate government were
* 8 Wallace, 1.

THE CONFEDERATE

'OTE

CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

issued early in the war, and, though never made a legal
tender, they soon, to a large extent, took the place of coin
in the insurgent States. Within a short period they became
the principal currency in which business in its multiplied
forms was there transacted. The simplest purchase of food
in the market, as well as the largest dealings of merchants,
were generally made in this currency. Contracts thus made,
not designed to aid the insurrectionary government, could
not, therefore, without manifest injustice to the parties, be
treated as invalid between them. Hence, in Thoringion v.
Smith, this court enforced a contract payable in these notes,
treating them as a currency imposed upon the community
by a government of irresistible force. As said in a later
case-, referring to this decision, "It would have been a cruel
and oppressive judgment, if all the transactions of the many
millions of people composing the inhabitants of the insurrectionary States, for the several years of the war, had been
held tainted with illegality because of the use of this forced
currency, when those transactions were not made with reference to the insurrectionary government."*
The Confederate notes, being greatly increased in volume
from time to time as the exigencies of the Confederate government required, and the probability of their ultimate redemption growing constantly less, necessarily depreciated
in value as the war progressed, until, in some portions of
the insurgent territory, at the close of the year 1863, $20 in
these notes, and at the close of the year 1864, $40 possessed
only the purchasing power of $1 in lawful money.t The
precious metals, however, still constituted the legal money
of the insurgent States, and alone answered the statutory
iefinition of dollars, but in fact had ceased in nearly all,
certainly in a large part of the dealings of parties, to be the
* Hanauer v. Woodruff, 15 Wallace, 448.

f

According to the Scaling Act of North Carolina one dollar in gold in
that State was worth, at the close of 1863, twenty dollars, and at the close
Df 1864, forty-nine dollars in Confederate notes. According to the Scaling
Act of South Carolina one dollar in gold in that State was worth at those
periods respectively, thirteen dollars and ninety cents and twenty-two dol.
lers and twenty-two cents in Confederate notes.

Oct. 1873.]

THE CONFEDERATE NOTE

CASE.

557

Opinion of the court.

measures of value. When the war. closed, these notes, of
course, became at once valueless and ceased to be current,
but contracts made upon their purchasable quality, and in
which they were designated as dollars, existed in great numbers. It was at once evident that great injustice would in
many cases be done to parties if the terms used were interpreted only by reference to the coinage of the United States
or their legal-tender notes, instead of the standard adopted
by the parties. The legal standard and the conventional
standard differed, and justice to the parties could only be
done by allowing evidence of the sense in which they used
the terms, and enforcing the contracts thus interpreted.
The anomalous condition of things at the South had created
in the meaning of the term " dollars" an ambiguity which
only parol evidence could in many instances remove. It
was, therefore, held in Thorington v. Smilh, where this condition of things, and the general use of Confederate notes
as currency in the insurgent States were shown, that parol
evidence was admissible to prove that a contract between
parties in those States during the war payable in "dollars,"
was in fact made for the payment of Confederate dollars;
the court observing, in the light of the facts respecting the
currency of the Confederate notes, which were detailed, that
it seemed " hardly less than absurd to say that these dollars
must be regarded as identical in kind and value with the
dollars which constitute the money of the United States."
The decision upon which reliance is placed, as thus seen,
only holds that a contract made during the war in the insurgent States, payable in Confederate notes, is not for that
reason invalid, and that parol evidence, under the peculiar condition of things in those States, is admissible to
prove the value of the notes, at the time the contract was
made, in the legal currency of the United States. In the
absence of such evidence the presumption of law would be
that by the term " dollars," the lawful currency of the United
States was intended. This case affbrds, therefore, no support to the position of the appellants here, for no evidence
was produced by them that payment of the bonds in Con-

THE CoxFEDERATE

INOTE OASE.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

federate notes was intended by the railroad company when
they were issued, or by the parties who purchased them.
The ordinance of North Carolina of October, 1865, recognized the difference between the standard of value existing
in that State during the war, and usually referred to in the
contracts of parties, and the legal standard adopted by the
government of the United States. It required that the legislature should provide a scale of depreciation of the Confederate currency from the time of its first issue to the end of
the war; and declared that all existing contracts solvable in
money, whether under seal or not, made after the depreciation of that currency, before the 1st day of May, 1865, and
then unfulfilled (except official bonds, and penal bonds payable to the State), should "be deemed to have been made
with the understanding that they were solvable in money of
the value of the said currency;" but at the same time provided that it should be "competent for either of the parties
to show, by parol or other relevant testimony, what the
understanding was in regard to the kind of currency in
which the same were solvable," and that in such case "the
true understanding" should regulate the value of the contract. The act of the legislature of the State, passed in
1866, adopted a scale of depreciation of Confederate currency as required by the ordinance, designating the value
in such currency of the gold dollar on the first day of each
month, from November, 1861, to April, 1865.
The ordinance and act require the courts, in the construction of contracts made in the insurgent States between
certain dates, to assume as a fact that the parties intended
by the term "dollars" Confederate notes, and understood
that the contracts were solvable in that currency; and they
thus throw upon the party contesting the truth of the assumed fact the burden of establishing a different understanding. It is'contended by the complainants that the ordinance
and statute in thus giving a supposed conventional meaning
to the terms used, in the absence of any evidence on the
subject, instead of' the meaning which otherwise would attach to the terms, impair the obligation of the contracts

Oct. 1873.]

THE

CONFEDERATE NOTE CASE.

559

Opinion of the court.

between them and the railroad company, and are, therefore,
void. Upon this question we refrain from expressing any
opinion. It is unnecessary that we should do so, for there
is sufficient in this case to rebut the presumption required
by the ordinance and statute.
The understanding of the parties may be shown from the
nature of the transaction, and the attendant circumstances,
as satisfactorily as from the language used. A. contract, for
example, to pay $50 for a night's lodging at a house of public
entertainment, where similar accommodation was usually
afforded for one-twentieth of that sum in coin, accompanied
by proof of a corresponding depreciation of Confederate
notes, would leave little doubt that the parties had Confederate money in contemplation when the contract was made.
In Thorington v. Smith the land was sold for the nominal sum
of $45,000, when its value in coin was only $3000, a most
persuasive fact to the conclusion that Confederate notes.were
alone intended in the original transactiou. So, on the other
hand, contracts made payable out of the Confederate States.
or at distant periods, such as may be supposed to be desired
as investments of moneys, or given upon a consideration or
gold, would, in the absence of other circumstances, justify
the inference that the parties contemplated payment in the
legal currency of the country.
In the present case the intention of the railroad company
that the principal of its bonds should be paid in lawful
money instead of Confederate notes may justly be inferred,
we think, from the nature of the contracts, particularly the
long period before they were to mature. When they were
issued, in May, 1862, it could not have been in the contemplation of the parties that the war would continue from
seven to thirteen years. It is well known that at that time
it was the general expectation on all sides that the war would
be one of short duration. The Confederate notes were only
)ayable by their terms after a ratification of peace between
the Confederate States and the United States. The bonds
of the railroad were intended for sale in the markets of the
world generally, and not merely in the Confederate States;

NUNEZ

v.

[Sup. Ct.

DAUTEL.

Syllabus.

they were payable to bearer, and, thdrefbre, transferable by
delivery. They state on their face that they may be converted into the stock of the company, at par, by the holder.
The declarations of the officers of the company up to July,
1863, show that the company treated the bonds as having an
exceptional value, and riot subject to the fluctuation of Confederate currency. Repeated declarations of the officers
were made to that import.
There is sufficient in these circumstances to repel the presumption created by the ordinance and act of North Carolina, and that being repelled, the ordinary presumption of
law as to the meaning of the parties in the ternis used must
prevail.
With reference to the interest payable semi-annually a
different presumption cannot be allowed, as the interest
must follow the character of the principal.
The other questions presented by counsel are not raised
on the pleadings. Usury, as a defence, should have been
specially pleaded or set up in the answer to entitle it to consideration.
DEOREE ArIRMED.

NUNEZ v. DAUTTEL.
1. A paper dated in one of the Southern States and promising to pay with interest, a sum of money specified and acknowledged to be due, "as soon
as the crop can be sold or the money raised from any other source," is not in
either form or effect a promissory note.
2. It is a promise to pay the money specified upon the occurrence of either
of the events named in the paper, oR after the lapse of a reasonable
amount of time within which to procure, in one mode or in the other,
the means necessary to meet the liability.
8. It does not mean that if the crop should be destroyed or could never be
sold, and the parties promising could not procure the money from any
other source, the debt should never be paid.
4. The question of what was a reasonable time (there being no evidence in
the case but the written promise itself), was a question for the court.
5. Five years and more is much more than a reasonable time.

