Oct. 1873.-]

PEETE V.

MORGAN.

Statement of the case.

approved the bond, had actual knowledge of the existence
of the alleged incumbrances. But the theory of the plea is
that the act of Congress made the United States a guarantor
to the surety that the distillery property was free from incumbrances at the time of the approval of the bond. In
our opinion such is not the law.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

PEETE V. MORGAN.
A State cannot, in order to defray the expenses of her quarantine regulations,
impose a tonnage tax on vessels owned in foreign ports, and entering
her harbors in pursuit of commerce.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Texas.
The Constitution ordains as follows:

"No State shall without the consent of Congress lay any
duty on tonnage.
"Congress shall have power to regulate coinmerce between
the States."
With these provisions of the Constitution in force, the
legislature of Texas, by an act of August 13th, 1870, enacted
that every vessel arriving at the quarantine station of any
town on the coast of Texas, should pay $5 for the first hundred tons, and one and a half cents for each additional ton.
In this state of things Morgan, a citizen of Nvew Yorkand the owner of two lines of steamers, registered and enrolled in that city, and running from ports in Louisiana to
ports in Texas, and back to the ports whence they sailed,filed a bill in the court below to enjoin onePeete,health officer
at the port of Galveston, fi'om the future collection of quarantine fees, exacted under the act abovementioned, from all
his vessels coming to the quarantine ground of the said port.
The enactment laying the tax was apparently passed on

PEETE V. MORGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

an assumption that it was justified by the language of this
court in Gibbons v. Ogden,* and where in speaking of inspection laws, this court say:
"They form a portion of that immense mass of legislation
which embraces everything within the territory of a State, not
surrendered to the General government, all which can be most
advantageously exercised by the States themselves. Inspection
laws, quarantine laws, health laws of every description, as well
as laws for regulating the internal commerce of a State, and
those which respect turnpike-roads, ferries, &e., are component
parts of this mass."
The court below granted a perpetual injunction, and
Peete, the health officer, brought the case here on appeal
from this decree.
The question was:
Can a State levy a tonnage tax on vessels owned in foreign
ports, and entering her harbors in the pursuit of commerce,
in order to defray the expenses of her quarantine regulations ?
Mr. P. Phillips,for Morgan, the appellee; no counsel appearing for the health officer, Peele, the appellant.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
That the power to establish quarantine laws rests with the
States, and has not been surrendered to the General government is settled in Gibbons v. Ogden. The source of this
power is in the acknowledged right of a State to provide for
the health of its people, and although this power when set
in motiotf may in a greater or less degree affect commerce,
yet the laws passed in the exercise of this power are not enacted for such an object. They are enacted for the sole
purpose of preserving the public health, and if they injuriously affect commerce, Congress, under the )ower to regulate it, may control them. Of necessity, they operate on
vessels engaged in commerce, and may produce delay or in* 9 Wheaton, 203.

Oct. 1873.]

PEETE V.

M ORGAN.

Opinion of the court.

convenience, but they are still lawful when not opposed to
any constitutional provision, or any act of Congress on the
subject.
It is evident that the power to establish quarantine regulations cannot be executed without the State possesses the
means to raise a revenue for their enforcement, but it is
equally evident that the means used for this purpose must
be of such a character as the restrictions imposed by the
Federal Constitution upon the taxing power of the States
authorize. We are not called upon in this case to go into
the general subject of the limitations imposed by these restrictions, because the tax in question is manifestly outside
the jurisdiction of the State to impose; as it is a "duty of
tonnage," within the meaning of the Constitution.
This duty was doubtless imposed to raise revenue, but
Chief Justice Marshal, in commenting on this subject in
Gibbons v. Ogden, says: "It is true, that duties may often be,
and in fact often are, imposed on tonnage, with a view to
the regulation of commerce; but they may be also imposed
with a view to revenue; and it was, therefore, a prudent
precaution to prohibit the States from exercising this power."
This power cannot be exercised without the permission of
Congress, and Congress has never consented that the States
should lay any duty on tonnage. On the contrary, so apprehensive was Congress that its legislation in 1799,* directing
the collectors of customs and officers commanding forts and
revenue cutters to aid in the execution of the quarantine
and health laws of the States, rendered necessary on account
of the prevalence of yellow fever in New York, might be
construed into an admission of the right of the States"to lay
this duty, that it used the following words of exclusion:
"That nothing herein shall enable any State to collect a
duty of tonnage or impost, without the consent of the Congress of the United States thereto."
It is, however, not necessary to discuss this subject, as it
has been recently fully considered by this court in the State
1 Stat. at Large, 619.

584

RAILROAD COMPANY v. RICHMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Tonnage Tax Cases, reported in 12th Wallace.* In these
cases the law of Alabama levied a tax at so much per ton
on all steamboats. The boats on which the tax was levied
were owned by citizens of the State, and were employed
exclusively in the internal commerce of the State, over
which Congress has no control. This court, while conceding the full power of the State to tax the property of its
citizens, held that the inhibition in the Federal Constitution
prevented the State from taxing in this mode. Much more
does this inhibition apply when the vessels are owned by
citizens of another State, and are engaged in commerce between the States, over which Congress has control.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. RICHMOND ET AL.
1. The act of Congress of June 15th, 1866, authorizing every railroad company in the United States, whose road was operated by steam, and its
successors and assigns, to carry upon and over its road, boats, bridges,
and ferries all passengers, troops, government supplies, mails, freight,
and property, on their way from one State to another State, and to receive compensation therefor, and to connect with roads of other States
so far as to form continuous lines for the transportation of the same to
their place of destination; and the act of July 25th, 1866, authorizing
the construction of certain bridges over the Mississippi River, and among
others a bridge connecting Dubuque with Dunleith, in the State of Illinois, and providing that the bridges, when constructed, should be free
for the crossing of all trains of railroads terminating on either side of
the river, for reasonable compensation, were designed to remove trammels upon transportation between different States, interposed by State
enactments or by existing laws of Congress, and were not intended to
interfere with private contracts and annul such as had been made on the
basis of existing legislation and existing means of interstate communication.
2. Contracts valid when made, continue valid, and capable of enforcement,
so long as peace lasts between the governments of the contracting parties, notwithstanding a change in the conditions of business which originally led to their creation.
Page 204.

