Oct. 1873.]

COOPER V.

OMOHUNDRO.

Syllabus.

motion was based upon the twelfth section of the same act
of February 27th, 1801, by which it was declared that the
Circuit Court, in appeals from the Orphans' Court, shall
therein have all the power of the chancellor of the State of
Maryland; and by the laws of Maryland the decree of the
chancellor in such case was final.
It will be observed that the analogy between that case
and the present is perfect. But the court said in that case
that the conclusiveness of the sentence formed no part of
the essence of the powers of the court. Its powers to act
are as ample, independent of their final quality, as with it.
And referring to the language so often cited already, they
say : "We cannot admit that construction to be a sound one
which seeks by remote inferences to withdraw a case from
the general provisions of a statute which is clearly within its
words and perfectly consistent with its intent."
We do not feel at liberty to disregard these contemporaneous expositions of an act of Congress which has furuished the criterion of our jurisdiction ever since the coarts
of the District were established, and they are so directly in
point that we cannot dismiss the writ without overruling
them. The motion is, therefore,
DENiED.

COOPER, EXECUTOR, V. OMOHUNDRO.
The case of Folsom v. The Insurance Company (18 Wallace, 237), and the
numerous cases there cited, p. 244, affirmed, and the doctrine again declared, that where a jury is waived and the issues of fact submitted to
the Circuit Court, under the act of, M1arch 3d, 1865 (quoted in the report
of the case cited, p. 238), this court will not review the finding of the
court where it is general and unaccompanied by any authorized statement of facts; and that in the case of such general finding, "nothing is
open to review by the losing party under a writ of error except the
rulings of the Circuit Court in the progress of the trial, and that the
phrase, Irulings of the court in the progress of the trial,' does not include
the general finding of the Circuit Court nor the conclusions of the Circuit Court embodied in such general finding."
VOL. XIX.

5

COOPER V.

OMOHUNDRO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Virginia; in which court Littleton Omohundro, a citizen
of Ohio, sued Richard Cooper, a citizen of Virginia, executor of Silas Omohundro (which said Silas was in his lifetime
a citizen of the same State), to recover certain advances
which the plaintiff, the said Littleton, who was the son of
the said Silas, the defendant's testator, had made (as the evideuce tended to show, though this fact was not in any way
shown by the pleadings), during the rebellion, and while funds
could not be transmitted from Virginia to Ohio for the said
Silas, his father.
The said Silas, the decedent, though living in Virginia,
had been building a house in Ohio, for his wife (or reputed
wife) and children, who resided there, and where he was in
the habit of visiting them till the rebellion broke out. He
died in 1864.
The court gave judgment for the plaintiff, and the defendant brought the case here on error.

Messrs. J. M. Carlisle and J. X. Lyons, for the plaintiff in
error; Mr. T1M. G'rump, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the case, and delivered
the opinion of the court.
Advances were made by the plaintiff to Silas Omohundro
in the sum of $4390, as alleged in the bill of particulars filed
in the case. None of that amount, as the plaintiff alleges,
was ever paid by the decedent, and the defendant, as his
executor, having neglected and refused to pay the same,
the plaintiff brought an action of assumpsit against the defendant, as such executor, to recover the amount. Service
being made the defendant ultimately appeared and pleaded
the general issue. Both parties being present they waived
a jury, and agreed that the issues of fact should be tried
and determined by the court without the intervention of a
jury.
Subsequently the defendant filed a special plea, that the
plaintiff ought not to have and maintain his action aforesaid

Oct. 1873.]

COOPER V.

OMOHUNDRO.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

against him because, he says, that at the time of making the
supposed contract and promise in the declaration mentioned,
war existed between the United States and the Confederate
States, and that the plaintiff and the testator of the defendant were alien enemies, concluding with a verification and
a prayer for judgment. Responsive to that special plea the
plaintiff filed a replication denying the allegations thereof,
and prayed that the same might be inquired of by the
country.
Three depositions were introduced by the plaintiff to sustain the issue on his part, and he also introduced certain
receipts, four of which were signed by the reputed wife of
the decedent, and two by the contractor employed to build
a dwelling-house for his reputed wife and children. Taken
together, these proofs tend strongly to prove that the decedent was indebted to the plaintiff in the sum of $4390, as

fbund by the Circuit Court.
Countervailing evidence was introduced by the defendant
consisting of five depositions, a deed from the decedent to
his reputed wife for her life, remainder to her six children,
and the will of the testator with the probate thereof, the
Virginia ordinance of secession, and an ordinance of the
State requiring the governor to call volunteers into the service of the State to repel invasion and to protect the citizens
of the State in the emergency, and ten other ordinances
passed by that State during the rebellion. All of the testimony introduced on the one side and the other being set
forth at large in what is denominated in the transcript a bill
of exceptions, filling thirty-seven pages of the transcript.
None of the evidence introduced by the plaintiff was objected to at the time, nor is any part of it made the subject
)f an exceptioni, nor was any request made by the defend-

ant at the close of the plaintiff's case for a ruling adverse to
the right of the plaintiff to recover. On the contrary, the
,defendant immediately proceeded to introduce evidence responsive to that introduced by the plaintiff, and evidence
to show that the decedent never promised the plaintiff as
alleged in the declaration, and at the close of his evidence

COOPER V.

00MHUNDRO.

Esup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

requested the Circuit Court to decide substantially as follows:
1st. That the alleged contract, inasmuch as war existed
at the time between the United States and the Confederate
States, was illegal and void.
2d. That the alleged contract, if not actually void, was an
executory agreement, and as such was terminated by the war.
3d. That the alleged contract, if otherwise valid, was too
indefinite to be executed.
4th. That no interest is recoverable during the war or
any portion of the war upon a contract between alien enemies.
5th. That upon the whole case, judgment should be for
the defendant.
But the court refused so to decide, and ruled against the
defendant upon each of the propositions, and the defendant
excepted to the said ruling.
Under those circumstances the record states that "the
court does find the facts in the case for the plaintiff, and
gives judgment that the plaintiff recover of the defendant
the sum of $4391, with interest from the 24th day of June,
1864, at the rate of six per cent. per annum, and costs of
suit."
Judgment having been rendered, the defendant moved
the court to arrest the same and grant him a new trial,
alleging for cause that the judgment was contrary to the
evidence and the law, and in support of the motion assigned
for error the same causes as those stated in the requests
submitted before judgment, but the court overruled the motion and the defendant excepted to the ruling.
Such is the state of the record which is brought here by
the defendant in the subordinate court. Since the cause
was removed here the losing party assigns a single cause of
error, which is that the Circuit Court erred in refusing to
rule in favor of the defendant upon the questions of law as
requested, and in ruling to the contrary thereof.
-Much discussion of the motion for new trial is unnecessary, as the motion is one addressed to the discretion of the

Oct. 1873.]

COOPER V. OMOHUNDRO.

Opinion of the court.

court, in respect to which the ruling of the Circuit Court
cannot be reviewed here upon a writ of error, nor in any
other mode. Nor can it make any difference in this case
that the motion for new trial was blended with one to arrest
the judgment, as such a motion ought regularly to be made
befbre the judgment is entered. Motions in arrest at common law were made after verdict and before judgment, and
it is quite clear that the refusal to grant such a motion after
judgment, in case where the finding of the Circuit Court is
general, cannot be regarded as a ruling made in the progress
of the trial.
Nothing remains to be considered except the requests for
rulings presented by the defendant before judgment.
Beyond all doubt the only effect of the exception to the
refusal of the court to grant the fifth request, if the exception is admitted to be well taken, will be to require the court
here to review the finding of the Circuit Court in a case
where the finding is general, and where it is unaccompanied
by any authorized statement of the facts, which it is plain
this court cannot do, fbr the reasons given in the opinion of
the court in the case of Insurance Company v. Folsom, decided at the present term.* Our decision in that case was,
that in a case where issues of fact are submitted to the Circuit Court and the finding is general, nothing is open to review by the losing party under a writ of error except the
rulings of the Circuit Court in the progress of the trial, and
that the phrase "rulings of the court in the progress of the
trial" does not include the general finding of the Circuit
Court nor the conclusions of the Circuit Court embodied
in such general finding, which certainly disposes of the
exceptions to the refusals of the Circuit Court to decide
and rule as requested in the first four prayers presented by
the defendant, as it is clear that those exceptions seek to
review certain conclusions of the Circuit Court which are
necessarily embodied in the general finding of the Circuit
Court.
18 Wallace, 237.

CREWS

v.

B REWER.

[Slip. Ot

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Opposed to that it may be suggested that the judgment
shows that interest is allowed, but the answer to that is that
neither the finding nor the judgment shows anything in
regard to the principal except the amount awarded to the
plaintiff Nothing can be inferred from the declaration to
support the defence of illegality, as it contains only the
money counts, nor from the bill of particulars filed in the
case, as it gives only the dates of the payments and makes
no reference to the date of the contract. Support to the
defence is entirely wanting without resorting to the evidence
as reported in the bill of exceptions, which includes all that
was introduced on both sides and is unaccompanied by any
special finding of the facts. Issues of fact cannot be fbund
by this court, as the act of Congress requires that such issues
shall be found by the Circuit Court. Consequently there
can be no review of the finding of the Circuit Court where
the finding is general, nor of the conclusions of the Circuit
Court embodied in the general finding.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CREWS v. BREWER.
The doctrine of the preceding case reaffirmed. Declared further, and in
explanation, that a mere report of the evidence is not such a special
finding or authorized statement of the case as will allow this court to
pass upon the judgment given.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the INorthern District of

Illinois.
Mr. Albert Pike, for the plaintiff in error; Mr. Gustavus Koerner, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
Complaint was made by the plaintiff that the defendant,

