MCCARTHY V. MANN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

after the day stipulated, nor is a verbal agreement to extend
the time of performance invalid.
And if this were not so, when the quartermaster in charge
receives of a person corn for the government, gives a receipt
and voucher for the amount and the price, and the government uses such part of it as it wants, and suffers the remainder to decay by exposure and neglect, there is an implied contract to pay the value of such corn, which value
may, in the absence of other testimony, be presumed to be
the price fixed in the voucher by the quartermaster.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

with directions to enter a judgment

for claimant for the
AMOUNT OF THE SAID VOUCHER.

MCQA'RTHY V. MANN.
A., on the 13th of February, 1850, made an entry and location, which
proved to be wholly void, of a land warrant on public land ; and then
conveyed to B. by deed with fall covenants. B. conveyed to C by a
similar sort of deed; and C. conveyed to D., not by deed like the two
just mentioned, but by a mere quit-claim; quit-claiming, however, all
his right, title, &c, "both in law and equity, and as well in possession
as in expedrancy." The Commissioner of the General Land Office cancelled the entry, &c., and set it aside as void; and A. took back his
money. C. conveyed to D., and he to E., &c.
Congress now passed an act, enacting"That the entry of A., &o., be and the same is hereby allowed and reinstated
as of the date of said entry, so that the title to said lands may enure to the
benefit of hits grantees as far as he way have conveyed the same: Provided,

that the money . . . shall be again paid at said land office, and that thereupon
a patent shall issue in the name of said A. for said lands."
A. paid the money again, and got a patent reciting the act of Congress
conveying the lands to him in fee.
C., after the passage of this act of Congress, conceiving that the two deeds
with full covenants had by the process of estoppel vested him Tith a
good title, but that his own deed of mere quit-claim had not vested his
grantee, D , with any title through that means, or in any way, conveyed
de nero to F. Held, That the act of Congress did vest im, through

Oct. 1873.]

MCCARTHY V. MANN.
Statement of the case.

the process of estoppel, with a full title, and that this title had passed by
his conveyance, though but a quit-claim, to D. and, of course, that
this subsequent deed (the one to F.) passed nothing.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Minne-

sofa.
McCarthy filed a bill in the court below against Mann
(under a statute of Minnesota which enables any person
claiming title to unoccupied land the title of which is
claimed adversely to proceed in that way) to have the question of title to a piece of unoccupied land settled by the said
court.
Both parties claimed under one French, in different ways,
now to be mentioned.
The act establishing, in 1849, the Territory of Minnesota
reserved certain sections of the public ]ands, to be surveyed,
to the use of the public schools.
In 1850, one Peter Poncin, owning a warrant, caused the
same, with the consent of the proper officers, to be located
on a tract of the land thus reserved, and soon afterwards
conveyed it by deed to one Pepin, his heirs and assigns, the
deed being a deed of warranty, with the usual covenants
"with the said Pepin, his heirs and assigns," and, among
them, covenants that he, the said Poncin, was well seized in
fee of the premises and had good right to sell and convey
the same in manner and form aforesaid, and that he, the
said Poncin, his heirs and assigns, would forever warrant
and defend the said Pepin, his heirs and assigns, in the
peaceable and quiet possession and enjoyment of all the said
lands against any and all persons claiming, or who might

claim, the same.
Pepin not long afterwards conveyed the land in fee to one
French by deed of the same full, formal, and technical character as that j ust above described, by which Poncin had conveyed it to him, Pepin.
Soon after this, again, French made a deed of the land to
one Elfelt. But the deed was not a deed like the preceding
deeds; a deed with covenants, such as abovementioned, but

MCCARTHY V. HANSpX.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

was a deed by which French "remised, released, and forever
quit-claimed," and by the same did " remise, release, and
forever quit-claim" to Elfelt, and "to his heirs and assigns
forever," all his " right, title, interest, estate, claim, and demand, both in law and equity, and as well in possession as in
expectancy," to the land now in suit. The deed was, therefore, a deed commonly known as a "quit-claim," with, however, the special clause above italicized.
The warrant of Pepin, under which all these conveyances
had been made, having been located on land reserved by
the organic act of the Territory for schools, was of course
void; and on the 10th of March, 1852, the Commissioner
of the General Laud Office set it aside.
Notwithstanding this, however,-and after the commissioner had set the location aside-Elfelt, the grantee last
abovementioned, conveyed to one Van Etten; this deed,
like French's deed to Elfelt himself, being a deed of quitclaim.
Whatever title, or other thing capable of being made
into a title-if anything of either-was thus vested in
Van Etten, became afterwards vested by sufficient deeds in
Mviann.

In this state of things-these different deeds of different
sorts having been made, and the location on which they all
rested having been void, and been set aside-Congress came
in, and in July, 1854, by "An act authorizing a patent to
be issued to Peter Poncin for certain lands therein de.
scribed," enacted:
"That the entry by Peter Poncin of... [the land now in
question, describing it], cancelled by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, be, and the same is hereby, allowed and rein.
stated as of the date qf said entry, so that the title to said lands
may enure to the benefit of his grantees as far as he may have conveyed the same."
The act containe a proviso, that the money paid for said
lands should not have been withdrawn, or, if withdrawn,
should be again paid at the laud office; and enacted that

Oct. 1873.]

MCCARTHY V. MANN.
Statement of the case.

thereupon 'a patent should issue in the name of said Peter
Ponein for said lands.*
After the passage of this act Elfelt executed to Van Etten
a further deed, the same being a deed of quit-claim.
And subsequently to this again, Poncin having paid into
the land office the price of the lands which he had attempted
to locate in 1850 with his warrant already mentioned, the
United States (March 24th, 1855) issued to him a patent.
The patent, reciting the act of Congress, proceeded thus:
"Now know ye, that the United States of America, in consideration of the premises, and in conformity with the several
acts of Congress in such case made and provided, have given
and granted, and by these presents do give and grant unto the
said Peter Poncin, and to his heirs, the said tract above described,
to have and to hold the same, together with all the rights, privileges, immunities, and appurtenances of whatsoever nature
thereunto belonging, unto the said Peter Poncin, and to his
heirs and assigns forever."
In this state of things French, who, it will be remembered,
had received a deed with full covenants from Pepin-the
said Pepin having himself previously received a similar deed
from Peter Poncin-and which said French, thus, of course
-if he had never made any conveyance of the land, would,
on the issue of the abovementioned patent, have been invested with all Poncin's title, on the well-known commonlaw principle of estoppel-conceived that there was such a
difference in the nature of the two deeds, with full covenants, just mentioned, which brought the title to him and the
deed of simple quit-claim, which he had given to Elfelt, and
which was the only deed that he had executed to pass any
title out from him, that while the said doctrine of estoppel
would apply to the former and vest him with the title given
to Poncin, by the act of Congress and the patent, it would
not apply to the latter, and therefore would not vest Elfelt or
* By the same act the superintendent of the public schools, in Minnesota,
was authorized to select othbr lands in lieu of the section now as abovemen.
,icned disposed of.

MCCARTHY V. MAN'.[

[Sup. ot.

Argument for the appellant.

anybody claiming under him with the title of Ponein, or, in
other words, with the title of him, French.
He thereupon executed a second deed of quit-claim to an
entirely distinct person, one Furber.
Under Furber, and through this last-mentioned deed of
French, the complainant McCarthy claimed.
Under the previous one, to Elfelt, claimed, as already said,
the defendant Mann.
The court below dismissed the bill and the complainant
took this appeal.
Mr. W. P. Clough, for the appellant:
Of course neither Poncin, nor any person claiming under
him, had any interest whatever in the lands until Poncin's
entry of them under provision of the act of 1854, and at
the date of the passage of that special act, the United
States continued to have as absolute ownership as it ever
had. This being so, our position is that upon the entry of
the lands by Poncin, under the special act, the title immediately passed from him to Pepin, and from Pepin to French;
and remained in the latter until conveyed to Furber in
1856.
At the time of the entry by Poncin, under the act of
1854, Pepin was owner of the covenant of warranty contained in his deed from Poncin, and French was owner of
that contained in his deed from Pepin. Neither of such
covenants ever became annexed to the land; that is to say,
never ran with it; because to run with lands, that is, to pass
under bare mention in the deed of the land itself, the covenants must be made by or with persons who are owners of
the land, or of some estate therein. This is very ancient
law; the leading case being from the Year-book of 43d
Edward III, 3, cited in Spencer's Case.* The existence of
the same rule was affirmed in IVoe v. Awder,t which has
usually been cited as the leading case upon the point that
oniy covenants made with the owner of the land run with
* 6 Coke, 16; 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 116.

- Croke Elizabeth, 373.

Oct. 1873.]

MCCARTHY V. MANN.
Argument for the appellant.

it; but erroneously, for the case from the Year-books had
established the doctrine two centuries before.
Nor will this case fall within Slater v. Rawson* and Beddoe
v. IVadsworth,t which have introduced into this country a
rule not recognized by the English courts, that when the
covenanter has actualpossession or, though no valid title to,
the lands to which the covenant relates, and acting under
the deed containing such covenant, transfers actual possession to the covenantee, then the covenant will pass to a subsequent transferee of the land by the covenantee. For here
any occupation of the lands in question, prior to their entry
under the act of 1854, would have been in direct id inexcusable violation of law. Independently of which, possession by any one from whom either of the parties derives
title, is not pretended to have existed prior to the entry of
Poncin in 1854.
Neither Poncin, Pepin nor French was under any manner
of obligation to Elfelt, nor to any one claiming under him,
in regard to the lands, for French's deed was a mere release,
operating only upon his then present interest, which was
zero. It contained no averment of title, and no covenant,
whereby French became bound as to the future.
What then became of the title after its passage from
government?
That it went to Poncin is clear. That it did not remain
in him is equally clear. In whom then did the law, by its
own operation, immediately vest it?
The ordinary legal effect of the covenants of warranty
which Pepin and French respectively held, cannot be open
to dispute. By virtue of their operation, Poncin's estate at
once enured to, and vested in, Pepin; and Pepin's estate, so
received from Poncin, at once enured to, and vested in,
French. This is the old common-law rule of estoppel.
But, when the title had thus arrived in French, it remained in him, from want of any relations to Elfelt upon
which the law could operate to carry it to him. As has
* I MVletcalf, 450.

t 21 "Wendell, 120.

MCCARTHIY V. MANN.

[Sill. Ct

Argument for the appellant.

been before remarked, French was under no obligation as to
Elfelt's title in the land. He had not covenanted to lrotect
Elfelt's title, and lie had not professed, in his deed to Elfelt,
either to have or to transfer any interest whatever in the
lands. Yoxv no rule of law is better settled than that subsequently acquired interests are wholly unaffected by deeds
of mere release without covenants, or without recitals of
estate in the grantor.*
Since, then, the operation of ordinary legal principles
failed to carry the title any further than to French, it must
have remained in him until he granted it away, by sufficient
deed of conveyance; such deed he did not make till he
made his deed to Farber, in 1856.
"But," it may be asked, "did the ordinary rules of law,
in fact, govern in this case ?" Certainly they did; for the
statute gave no direction whatever to the passage of the
title, after its arrival in Poncin. Even the clause of the
statute providing that "the entry of Peter Poncin," be allowed and reinstated as of the date of said e7try, cannot be
made the basis of a contrary argument. Ordinary legal
principles were left even by this clause free to accomplish
their usual results, unless Congress not only meant the proposed transfer to relate back to the time of the location in
1850, but by the clause actually did make it relate back to
that very time and be of the very same effect in law, for
every purpose, and as between all persons, as if the location
had been legally perfected at that date; in other words, unless by the clause all parties interested and the courts were
estopped from saying that title did not infact pass to Poncin
in 1850.
The act did not purport to burden Poncin's title with
equities or trusts in favor of any specified person. The
statement that allowance of the entry is made so that the
title may enure to the benefit of Poncin's grantees, does not
declare a use in favor of any particular claimant of the land,
in preference to any other.
* Van Rensselaer v. Kearney, 11 Howard, 322; Rawle oai Covenants for
Title, 4th eaition, 390, 391, and cases cited.

Oct. 1873.]

MoCCATHaY V. MANN.
Argument for the appellant.

The clause did not have a literal and retroactive operation. If it had, its effect would have been to clothe the
patent issued under it in 1854 with the same legal conse-

quences that would have attended one lawfully issued in
1850. Such a result could have been accomplished only,
1st. By the statute acting by way of ratifying a void act
done in the name of the United States by one having no
authority at the time; or,
2d. By the statute acting by way of saying that the
rights of all persons should be under this patent precisely
what they would have been if the attempted location had
been effectual, and a patent had issued upon it.
But Congress is powerless to enact, with effect, that title
to any property ait the time actually vested in the United
States was transferred by the latter years before; and to
argue that it could, would be to propound a manifest absurdity. Congress is equally powerless to enact with effect,
to-day, that a designated person may have a patent of
some parcel of land in which none but government has anly
spark of interest, and that upon the issue of such patent
to-morrow the land shall have been the property of the
patentee for the four years past. Therefore the statute produced no retroactive results by virtue of its operating upon
facts themselves, and changing them from what they really
were.
It did not operate by way of ratifying any previous void
act of Poncin and of the land officers. The act did not
propose to allow or to reinstate the only thing which had
actually been done. It was not designed nor permitted that
the location of the land warrant should now be made, which
the law had before rejected. If Poncin had, after the passage of this special statute, repossessed himself of his old
land warrant, and offered to locate it upon these lands, he
could not have done it. The only thing which the act did
authorize, was an entirely new and original transaction,
wholly unconnected with anything that had been essayed
in the past. The dissent, therefore, by the United States
to all that bad been done by Poncin and its officers, in rela-

MCOARTnY V. MANN.

[S up. Ot.

Argument for the appellant.

tion to these lands, was continued by the act, ill full and
unmodified force.
The act did not operate by way of making the rights of
the parties, other than Poncin, what they would have been
at the date of the passage of the law, if the attempted acquirement of the lands by Poncin in 1850 had been consummated at that date.
Congress was prohibited by the Constitution from granting the lands to Poncin, and then saying that the rights of
the other parties should be what they would have been had
the location in 1850 been effectual. For, with the covenants in full force, the title, when vested in Poncin, would
instantly pass through Pepin to French; and to take it from
the latter by statute, would be to deprive him of his
property in a way not permitted by the rules of constitutional law.
It will be no answer to these positions to argue that the
lands were government's, and that therefore it was free to
grant them to whomsoever it should choose. For although
the government by its statute declared that it exercised its
proprietary right of disposition of the lands, so that the
title vested by it in Poncin might enure to the benefit of his
grantees, in so far as he might have conveyed the same, it
omitted to state which of the several parties claiming to
stand in that relation was the one intended. It did not
even undertake to say that any part of the land had been
conveyed, much less to decide whether French with his covenants, or Elfelt without any, and holding a mere release
applying to no future interests, was the person to whom the
title, with which it was parting, should ultimately move.
Congress plainly meant that whoever should get title after
Ponciu, should get it by the laws of the land, and did not
mean to assume the task of itself settling and adjusting the
conflicting claims of those deriving title from him.
The insurmountable difficulty with the defendant's title
fs, that it would force a construction upon this act that
would give to a mere quit-claim deed, having no covenants
nor averments of title, equal efficacy with a deed having

Oct. 1873.]

MCCARTHY V.

MANN.

29

Argument for the appellant.

covenants, to pass subsequently acquired estates. To add
to such a deed by special statute, the quality which it did
not possess when made, of passing after-acquired interests,
would not only be in conflict with the constitutional provisions protecting vested rights of property, but would be
unjust and oppressive.
No estoppel has arisen to bar or conclude French, or any
claiming under him through the Furber deed, from averring the truth. The essence of estoppel is, that the person
estopped has done some act, or made some assertion, which
good conscience or fair dealing would prevent him from
afterward denying. If the complainant was estopped from
asserting anything, it was either that Poncin had not title
in 1850, or that he had not title in 1851, when he quitclaimed to Elfelt. And if such estoppel arose at all, it was
upon his deed to Elfelt, because that is the only transaction
between them of any consequence in determining that question. That deed, however, contained no averment of title,
and no covenant, and consequently no statement capable
either of being denied or affirmed. It is settled that a deed
of that character works no estoppel whatever upon the
grantor.*
The only other act which French ever did in relation to
the land, before Elfelt took his deed, was his acceptance of
the deed from Pepin. But that did not conclude him from
denying, even as between himself and Pepin, that Pepin
had nothing at the date of the deed in the lauds, although
that instrument contained full covenants.But, in addition to there having been nothing in law to
estop the complainant, there was not even anything in his
asserting title inconsistent with the highest degree of good
conscience and fair dealing, as a mere moral question.
Those who have dealt in the title here set up by the respondents have done so with all the facts upon which the
appellant relies to sustain his title, spread out upon the stat* Van Rensselaer v. K(earney, 11 Howard, 322.
t Sparrow v. Kingman, I New York , 242.

MCCARTHY V. MANN.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

ute-books of the United States and upon the records of the
county where the lands are situated.

.Mr.

. . Horn, contra.

Mr. Justice SWAYNIE recapitulated the facts of the case,
and delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant, under a remedial statute of the State, filed
the bill to enforce his claim of title to the real estate in controversy. The court below decreed against him, and he
thereupon brought the case to this court by appeal for review. The facts, so far as it is necessary to state them, are
as follows:
The premises were a part of the public domain of the
United States. On the 13th of February, 1850, Peter
Poncin entered at the proper land office a tract of a hundred acres. The premises are a part of that tract.
On the 28th of March, 1850, Poncin conveyed the entire
tract to Pepin, by deed of warranty. On the 19th of April,
in the same year, Pepin conveyed with warranty to French.
On the 19th of March, 1851, French, by deed of quit-claim,
conveyed all his right, title, and claim, "both in law and ill
equity, as well in possession as expectancy," to Elfelt.
On the 10th of March, 1851, the Commissioner of the
General Land Office set aside Poncin's entry, upon the
ground that the section in which the land was situated was
reserved by the act of March 3d, 1849, for school purposes.
On the 15th of October, 1853, Elfelt conveyed, by deed
of quit-claim, to 'Van Etten.
On the 27th of July, 1854, an act of Congress was passed
whereby the entry of Poncin was reinstated, and it was
enacted that upon the payment of the purchase-money a
patent should issue to him.
On the 19th of October, 1854, Elfelt executed to Van
Etten a further deed of quit-claim. On the 24th of October,
1854, Van Etten, by deed of quit-claim, conveyed the undivided half of. the tract to Robertson. On the 31st of the
same month, Poncin paid into the land office the price of

Oct. 1873.]

MCCARTHY V.

MANN.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

the land, and ol the 24th of MNfarch, 1855, the United States
issued to him a patent for it. Oin the 22d of July, 1855,
Robertson and Van Etten laid the tract out into lots and
platted them as an addition to the city of St. Paul. This
addition is now worth more than hlf a million of dollars.
The lots and blocks of lots in controversy are parts of this
addition. All the deeds beforementioned were duly executed and recorded.
On the 14th of January, 1856, French conveyed, by deed
of quit-claim, the entire tract to Furber. On the 28th of
June, 1856, Furber conveyed by a like deed to Dunn.. On
the 31st of July, 1856, Dunn executed a like deed to Hammond, and on the 20th of September, 1862, Hammond a
like deed to McCarthy, the appellant. The deeds to Furber
and Dunn were duly recorded. Those to Hammond and
the appellant have never been recorded.
The act of Congress under which the second entry of
Poncin was made, is as follows:
"An act authorizing a patent to be issued to Peter Poncin,
for certain lands therein described.
" SEC. 1. Be it enacted, That the entry by Peter Poncin of
the north half of the southeast quarter and the south half
of the northeast quarter of section thirty-six, in township
number twenty-nine, of range twenty-three, in Stillwater
land district, Minnesota, cancelled by the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, be, and the same is hereby, allowed and
reinstated as of the dale of said entry, so that the title to said
lands may enure to the benefit of his grantees as far as he may
have conveyed the same; provided, that the money paid for
said lands shall not have been withdrawn, or, if withdrawn,
shall be again paid at said land office, and that thereupon a
patent shall issue in the name of said Peter Poncin for said
lands.
" SEc. 2. And be itfurther enacted, That the superintendent
of public schools in said Territory of Minnesota, be, and he
is hereby, authorized to select other lands in lieu of said
section thirty-six, as far as the same have been granted or
soId."

ZANTZINGEuS

v.

GUNTON.

[Sup. Ot.

Syllabus.

The first entry by Poncin was clearly void, and the commissioner was right in setting it aside. When the act in
question was passed, the United States held the land as if
no entry had been made. Being the absolute owners, they
could grant it upon such terms and conditions as Congress
might prescribe. The government united the powers of
ownership and legislation, and both were exercised in passing the act. The act declared, first, that the entry should
be reinstated as of its original date, and that a patent should
issue to Poncin ; second, that the title should enure to the
benefit of his grantees as he should have conveyed the land.
The law is explicit and there is no difficulty in carrying out
its provisions. It must be liberally construed to effect the
purposes of its enactment. By Poncin's grantees was meant
those claiming title under him. Those to whom he might
have conveyed were no more intended to be beneficiaries
under the act, than those holding remoter links in the same
chain of title. When he paid his money and procured a
certificate of entry pursuant to the act, an equity vested in
each of those who would have held it, if the original entry
had been valid, and when the patent issued, the legal title
vested in the same parties. The act applied the doctrine of
relation. It made no distinction between grantees with
warranty and those without it. If there had been outstanding title-bonds, they also would have been within the equity
of the act, and the holders could have enforced them accordingly. The law and equity of the case are with the appellees, and the decree of the Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED.

ZANTZINGERS V.

GUNTON.

I Although a bank by statute, or the trustees, on the expiration thereof,
who liquidate its affairs, may be deprived of power to take or hold real
estate, this does not prevent either's making an arrangement through
the medium of a trustee, by which, without ever having a legal title,

