CARPENTER V. RANNELS.

[Sup. OrL

Syllabus.

and while the burden of showing that it was in no degree
occasioned by that failure rests upon the bark, it is impossi
ble to rebut the presumption. It is a well-known fact that
in some states of the atmosphere a foghorn can be heard at
much greater distances than in others. How far it could
have been heard when this collision occurred can never be
known. Nor can it be known what precautions the steamer
would have adopted if the true and proper signal had been
given her. Hence, it appears to us the bark has not proved
that her failure to obey the shipping regulations was not a
concurrent cause of the injury she received; and, consequently, as both vessels were in fault, the damages, according to the admiralty rule, should be divided.
We have not overlooked the fact that in a libel by the
owners of the cargo of the bark against the steamer for
damages resulting from the same collision, it was held by
the judicial committee of the Privy Council in England, that
the disaster was chargeable to the steamer alone. But with
great respect for the tribunal that thus decided, we do not
feel at liberty to surrender our judgment, especially in view
of the fact that the case is now more fully presented and the
evidence is more complete than it was in the British court.
DEOREE REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with instruc-

tions to enter a decree
IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION.

CARPENTER V. RANNELS.

A. having, prior to July, 1801, an inchoate title to lands in the then French
territory of what is now Missouri, agreed in July of that year to sell it,
on certain conditions of improvement, required by the government, to
B. On B.'s making the required improvements, the land was to "belong to him in full proprietorship," and A. bound himself, his heirs,
and assigns, "to solicit title from the government, and to make a regular
transfer to the said B. without any further cost on his part, except the
expenses of the neCessary deed." The said French territory, having

Oct. 1873.]

CARPENTER

v.

RANNELS.

General statement of the case.
passed to the TJ nited States in 1803, and commissioners having been appointed in 1805 by act of Congress ,to ascertain and adjust titles and
claims" to lands within the newly acquired territory, B. appeared before the board in April, 1811, with his conditional transfer from A.,
amd the board, as a record in their minute-book showed, "grant to A. or
his legal representatires" the land thus claimed, and order the same to
be surveyed "so as to include his improvements." In the June following the commissioners issued their certificate, in which they say, " We
. . . have decided that the legal representatives of A., original claimant,
are entitled to a patent," &c , for the land, "and order the same to be
surveyed so as to include his improvements," &c. The land thus granted
having been injured by earthquake, and Congress, in February, 1815,
having authorized persons whose land had been thus injured to make
new locations of the same quantity of land on any of the public lands
then open for sale in the same Territory, it appeared by different records
that A., asserting that his land had been thus injured, claimed new
land, and also that A. "ror his legal representatives" claimed it. A
patent was finally issued, reciting that in pursuance of the act of Congress of February, 1815, there had been located for A. 4'or his legal representatires" a tract described : the habendum of the patent being to the
said A. 1"or his legal representativesand to his or their heirs and assigns
forever."
Held, that the title enured to B. and his legal representatives, and that no
other representative of A., whether hereditary or by contract, had any
right, legal or equitable, to the premises.

Eaoa to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri.

Carpenter brought ejectment against 1aunels in one of
the Circuit Courts of Missouri to recover possession of two
hundred arpeuts or acres of laud in the county of St. Louis,
located under a New Madrid certificate of relocation, No.
511, which was issued under au act of Congress of February
17th, 1815,* and acts supplementary thereto, in lieu of lands
in New Madrid County, which had been injured by earth..
quakes, and upon which certificate a patent issued, dated
March 30th, 1833, to "John Butler or his legal representa.
fives."
The plaintiff claimed, under the confirmation and patent,
directly through the heirs of this John Butler.
The defendant claimed also through the confirmation and
patent to Butler, but asserted that the same had in law
* 3 Stat. at Large, 211.

CARPENTER V. RANNELS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

passed the equitable title to one James Bankston, hereinafter mentioned, and whom he asserted to be the "legal
representative" of the said Butler, and he gave evidence
tending to show derivative title under Bankston.
The cause was submitted to the court without the intervention of a jury. The court found and gave judgment for
the defendant, and that judgment being affirmed in the Supreme Court of the State,* the plaintiff brought the case
here for review.
Mr. B. A. Hill,for the plaintiffin error; Messrs. Clover and
Shepley, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAY-E stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
John Butler had an inchoate title derived from the Spanish
government, acting through its authorized agents. Upon
this subject there is no controversy between the parties. It
is the common source of the derivative titles upon which
they severally rely.
On the 23d of July, 1801, Butler entered into an agreement with James Bankston to the following effect:
Butler leased the land to Bankston for three years from
the date of the contract. Bankston agreed, "during the
three years, to erect on said tract all the improvements and
establishments-to break up the ground, and to make the
Royal road and other improvements required by law; to be
enabled at the end of three years from the petition for said
land to obtain the title of proprietorship from the government of the province." Butler acknowledged the payment
of forty piasters by Bankston. Oi condition that Bankston,
at the end of the three years, should have made the improvements stipulated for, the land was to "belong to him in full
proprietorship,'" and Butler bound himself, his heirs and
assigns, "to solicit the title from the government, and to
make a regular transfer of said land to the said James
* 45 Missouri, 584.

Oct. 1873.]

CARPENTER V.

RANNELS.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Bankston, without any further cost on his part, except the
expenses of the necessary deed," and "Bankston...
promised to fulfil and execute all the said clauses and conditions, under penalty of the forfeiture of the advantages
which might result in his fivor."
This instrument showg that so far as Butler was concerned
the entii'e consideration of the transaction had been paid.
What remained for Bankston to do was wholly for his own
benefit, and not for Butler's. If he fulfilled, a perfect title
was to be acquired from the government; not for Butler,
but for himself. It was implied that the title was to emanate in Butler's name. He stipulated to apply for it and to
convey it to Bankston without expense to the latter except
for the necessary conveyances.
The State of Missouri is a part of a larger territory which
belonged to France, then to Spain, and again to France.
France ceded it to the United States in 1803. The United
States stipulated that the inhabitants of the ceded territory
should be protected in the free enjoyment of their property.
The law of nations would have given this guaranty if the
treaty had been silent upon the subject, and the result
would have been the same if the territory had been acquired by conquest and not by cession. The new government took the place of that which passed away, and was
clothed with the same duties and obligations as to all rights
of property subsisting when the dominion of the latter was
withdrawn.*
Congress, by the act of March 2d, 1805,t provided for the
examination and adjustment of claims of title like the one
here in question, and created a board of commissioners for
that purpose. Other acts were passed relating to the subject,
but it is not necessary particularly to advert to them. This
title came before the commissioners in the year 1811, and
the result of their action is the hinge of the controversy
between these parties. The question to be determined is
* Soulard v. United States, 4 Peters, 512; Strotber v. Lucas, 12 Id. 436.
t 2 Stat. at Large, 324.

CARPENTER V. IRANNELS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

whether it was confirmed to Butler or to Bankston. This
renders it necessary to examine that part of the record
which relates to the subject. It consists of a transcript of
the proceedings of the commissioners and of the evidence
before them. We shall itemize as we proceed.
(1.) "John Butler claims two hundred arpents of land in
the district of New Madrid, under the second section of the
act of Congress made and provided."
(2.) An order, dated April 16th, 1801, from Peyroux to
Story, to survey two hundred arpents of land for Butler.
This was before the date of the contract between Butler and
Baukston.
(3.) A plat of the survey made by Story and a certificate
by him that he made it at the request of Butler, who claimed
the land by virtue of a grant from Peyroux while commandant of the district of New Madrid, and in virtue of the
second section of the act of March 2d, 1805. This certificate is dated February 2d, 1806.
(4.) The contract between Butler and Bankston already
adverted to.
(5.) "Friday,April 12th, 1811.-Board met: Present, John
B. 0. Lucas, Clement B. Penrose, and Frederick Bates, commissioners.
"James Bankston, assignee of John Butler, claiming two
hundred arpents of land, situate in Cypress Swamp, district
of New Madrid, produced to the board an order of survey
dated 16th April, 1801, a certified copy of a conditional
transfer from Butler to claimant, dated 23d July, 1801, and
a plat of survey dated 2d February, 1806.
"The board grant to John Butler, or his legal representatives, two hundred arpents of land, and order that the same
be surveyed as nearly in a square as may be, and so as to
include his improvements.
"Board adjourned till Monday next, nine o'clock A.M."
Signed by the commissioners. "See Board Minute-Book,
No. 5, pages 145, 148, and 149."
(6.) " Thursday, June 20th, 1811.-Board met: Present,
Clemeut B. Peurose, Frederick Bates, commissioners. John

Oct. 1873.]

CARPENTER V. RANNELS.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

B. C. Lucas, commissioner, appeared at the board and took
his seat.
"Cert. No. 1103, John Butler's legal representatives, Book 5,
page 148.
"Survey at expense of the United States. Board adjourned till to-morrow, eight o'clock A.M." Signed by the
commissioners. "See Board Minute-Book, No. 5, page 187,
188, and 193."
(7.) ".Louisiana Commissioners' Cert)ficate No. 1103, June
20th, 1811.
"We, the undersigned, commissioners for ascertaining
and adjusting the titles and claims to lands in the Territory
of Louisiana, have decided that the legal representativesof John
Butler, original claimant, are entitled to a patent under the
provisions of the second section of an act of Congress of the
United States, entitled ' An act for ascertaining and adjusting the titles and claims to land within the Territory of Orleans, and the District of Louisiana, passed the 2d day of
March, one thousand eight hundred and five,' for two hundred arpents of land, situate in the district of New Madrid,
Cypress Swamp, and order that the same be surveyed as
nearly in a square as may be, and so as to include his improvements, by virtue of a permission from the proper
Spanish officer, and also of actual inhabitation and cultivation prior to, and on, the 20th day of December, one thousand eight hundred and three." Signed by the commissioners. "See certificate on file."
So far as the name of Butler appears in these documents,
as the claimant, it is to be borne in mind that he was bound
by his contract with Bankston to procure the emanation of
the final title for the benefit of the latter. It is shown that
Bankston produced to the commissioners a copy of his contract with Butler; that the board granted to Butler, or his
:egal representatives, the land claimed; that it was ordered to
be surveyed in the name of" John Butler's legal representatives;" that there were improvements made by permission
of the proper Spanish officer, and "actual inhabitation and

CARPENTER V. RANNELS.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

cultivation on and prior to the 20th of December, 1803;"
and finally, that the board "decided that the legal represenlatires of John Butler, original claimant, are entitled to a
patent under the second section of the act of March 2d,
1805." There is no evidence that Butler or any one else
questioned the claim of Bankston before the commissioners.
The act of Congress of February 17th, 1815,* declared
that any person owning lands in the county of New Madrid,
in Missouri Territory, which laud had been injured by earthquakes, might "locate the like quantity of land on any of
the public lands of said Territory the sale of which is authorized by law." In the event of such location being made,
the title of the owner to the lands injured was to revert to
the United States. In the proceedings under this act the
following testimony is found in the record:
(1.) A, a line in a tabulated statement, showing thatButler
claimed that the land in question was injured, and had relinquished the title to the United States.
(2.) A, in line in a like statement that Butler was the
claimant, and that a certificate of injury had been delivered
to James Evans.
(3.) A, a line in a like statement that Butler, or his legal
representatives, claimed, and that a patent certificate was
prepared accordingly by the recorder of land titles under
the act of 1815 and the supplementary acts, and that it was
delivered to William Smith, of St. Louis.
The only other testimony in the record necessary to be
adverted to is:
(1.) A power of attorney from Butler to James Evans,
dated February 9th, 1819, authorizing him, as the attorney
of Butler, to sell "a certificate of location for two hundred
arpents obtained from the recorder of land titles for the Territory of Missouri, or to locate the same as he should think
proper."
(2.) A deed from Evans, as such attorney, dated January
1st, 1819, whereby he assigned the certificate to Henry
* 8 Stat. at Large, 211.

Oct. 1873.]

CARPENTER

v.

RANNELS.

Opinion of*the court.

Waddle. It is described as "a New Madrid certificate, issued.
by Frederick Bates, recorder of land titles for the Territory
or Missouri, No. 511, dated December 31st, 1818, whereby
it is certified, among other things, that John Butler, or his
legal representatives, is entitled to locate two hundred arpents
of land."
(3.) A patent from the United States to John Butler, or
his legal representatives, dated March 30th, 1863. It recites that, in pursuance of the act of February 17th, 1815,
there had been located "for John Butler, or his legal representatives, a certain tract of land, described," &c. A full
description is then given. The habendum is, "to the said
John Butler, or his legal representatives, and to his or their
heirs and assigns forever."
This is the land in controversy in this case.
In the opinion of the court in Hogan v. Page,* it is said
that at ail early period there was difficulty as to the form of
patent certificates and of patents, arising out of applications
to have them issued in the name of the assignee or present
claimant, thus imposing upon the office the burden of decidilg as to the validity of the derivative title. The same difficulty, it is said, existed in respect to the boards of commissioners appointed to adjust French and Span ish claims. The
result, after consulting the Attorney-General, was that the
Commissioner of the Land Office recommended that in such
cases the patent certificate or the patent should be issued to
the original grantce, or his legal representatives, anl that this
suggestion was adopted by the several boards of conimissioners. It is added: "This formula, ' or his legal representaives,' embraces the representatives of the original grantee
of the land by contract, such as assignees or grantees, as
well as by operation of law, and leaves the question open to
inquiry in a court of justice as to whom the certificate, patent, or confirmation should entire."
This is decisive of the case before us. There it was argued
2 Wallace, 607.

VOL. XLX.

10

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND WIFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

that "the confirmation to the representatives of Auguste
Conde" enured to hs heirs. In the case before us, Butler
was living at the time of the confirmation. He and Bankston were before the commissioners. Bankston produced his
contract. It does not appear that Butler made any objection to his claim, and the commissioners adjudged iii his
favor. The omission of Butler's name in the patent certificate, under the circumstances, closed the door finally against
any claim thereafter on his part touching the property by
virtue of his original title. The commissioners must have
found that Bankston had done all that he was bound to do
by his contract. An act done by a public officer which presupposes another act is presumptive proof of the latter.*
The certificate issued by the recorder of land titles under
the act of 1815, the location of that certificate and the patent,
enured to Bankston and his legal representatives.t No
other representative of Butler, whether hereditary or by
contract, has any right, legal or equitable, to the premnises.
The testimony in the record is conclusive upon the subject.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

SAWYER V. PRICKETT AND 'WIFE.

A. farmer and his wife on the line of a proposed country railroad, subscribed
to stock in the road and mortgaged their farm, upon representations
made to them by agents of the road and others, in a time of excitement
got up at public meetings, that the road would prove a most lucrative
investment of money, a very profitable thing to the neighborhood, and
would enable farmers to sell the products (f their farrm at a large advance
over existing prices. The making (,fthe road was begun, and after a
good deal of money had been laid out in grading, &c, the further making
of it was absolutely stopped for want of funds, and it remained unmade.
*

Bank of the United States v. Dandridg,, 12 Wheaton, 70; Lessee of

Ward v. Barrows, 2 Ohio State, 242.
j- Bissell v. Penro. e, 8 Howard, 338; Hogan v.Page, 2 Wallace, 605; Papin
v. Massey, 27 Missouri, 44.5; Boone v MIoore, 14 1d. 420; Carpenter v. Rannells, 45 Id. 591; Page v. Hill, 11 Id. 149.

