DECISIONS
IN TIlE

SLTPREAME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1873.

BAIRINGS v. DABNEY.
1. Th6ugh the stock of a bank be altogether owned by a State, if the bank
is insolvent its assets cannot be appropriated by legislative act or otherwise to pay the debts of the State, as distinguished from the debts of
the bank. Those assets are a trust fund first applicable to the payment
of the debts of the bank.
2. An act of the legislature requiring the managers of an insolvent bank
belonging to the State to hold its assets appropriated to the payment of
certain specified debts, creates a trust in favor of the creditors holding
said debts, and, if assented to by them, amounts to a contract with them
to carry out said trust.
8. If such an act, however, has the effect to appropriate the assets of the
bank to pay the debts of the State, to the prejudice of billholders and
other creditors of the bank, it is repugnant to that clause of the Constitution which prohibits a law impairing the obligation of contracts, and
is void.
4. Such an act passed by the legislature of South Carolina in reference to
the assets of the Bank of the State of South Carolina, declared to be
void.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of South Carolina; the case
being thus:

In 1812, the legislature of South Carolina, by a legislative
act, created a bank by the name of the Bank of the State
of South Carolina. The capital was to consist of various
stocks, bonds, and securities specified, then belonging to the
State; the same being in fact all the stocks, bonds, and seNL. XIr.

1

(1)

BARINGS V. DABNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

curities which the State owned.

The bank thus belonged

to the State. The president and directors were to be elected
by the legislature, and were made a corporation and body
politic. The faith of the State was pledged for the support
of the bank, for the supply of any deficiency in the funds
specially pledged, and for making good all losses arising
from such deficiency. The usual powers were conferred
upon the corporation; to purchase, hold, and transfer property of all kinds; to sue and be sued; to adopt its own
rules and by-laws; to issue notes, and to make loans by way
of discount, secured by mortgage; and to do all acts which
might appertain to its functions as a bank.
In December, 1821, by another legislative act, the future
profits of the bank were pledged and set apart for the payment of a certain 6 per cent. stock, which the State had
previously issued.
In 1838, the city of Charleston suffered from an extensive
fire, and the legislature passed, in that same year, an act
entitled "An act for rebuilding the city of Charleston."
By the first section of this act the governor was directed
and required, in the name of the State, to issue bonds or
other contracts not exceeding $2,000,000, for the purpose of
procuring a loan on the credit of the State to rebuild the
burnt portion of the said city; and the faith and funds of
the State were pledged for the punctual payment of the
bonds or contracts, with interest.
By the third section the money, when obtained in Charleston, was to be deposited in the bank, and become a part of
its capital.
LUy the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth sections it was enacted
as follows, to wit:
"SECTIoN 10. It shall be the duty of the president and directors of the Bank of the State of South Carolina to make proper
provisions for the punotual payment of the interest of such
loan, and also for the ultimate payment of the principal thereof.
"SECTION 11. It shall be the duty of the president and directors of the Bank of the State of South Carolina to cause to be
opened in the books of said bank an account in which they shall

Oct 1873.]

BARINGS

v. DABNEY.

Statement of the case.

debit themselves with the profits arising out of the additional
capitalcreated out of the two millions loan aforesaid, for the year
ending October 1st, 1839, and with all the future profits of the said
loan as the same shall hereafter be annually declared; which
said fund, with its annual accumulations, shall be considered
solemnly pledged and set apart for the payment of the interest
on said loan and the final redemption thereof; and it shall be
the duty of the president and directors of the said bank annually to report to both branches of the legislature the exact
state of that fund.
"SECTIoN 12. When the profits of the said Bank of the State
of South Carolina shall have paid the interest of certain stocks
for which they have been heretofore pledged and set apart, the
said profits shall also be considered solemnly pledged and set
apart for the payment of the interest on the said loan and the
final redemption thereof."
Under this act a large amount of bonds, known as "Fire
Loan bonds," were issued and negotiated, of which £109,000
payable ini London, and due in 1868, were still outstanding
in the hands of Baring Brothers & Co. These bonds, by
an indorsement thereon, were guaranteed by the bank.
Certificates of State stock, known as "Fire Loan stock,"
were also issued under the act, payable at the State treasury,
and not expressly guaranteed by the bank; of which $318,000
were still outstanding in the hands of a few persons in South
Carolina.
Notwithstanding the directions of the eleventh section of
the act of 1838, to keep a distinct account of the profits
arising out of the additional capital created by the two millions loan, no such account was ever kept; and though the
net profits of the bank were annually ascertained, the particular sources from which they arose could not be distinguished, so that at the close of the rebellion in 1865, during
which the resources of the bank had been enormously drawn
on by the State, the assets which remained were a product
made up of capital increased by profits, and the sum diminished by losses till insolvency had supervened.
The bank being thus, at the close of the war, insolvent,

BARINGS

V. DABNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the General Assembly, on the 21st of December, 1865, passed
an act, entitled "An act to raise supplies for the year," &c.;
by the eleventh section of which it was enacted,
"That the president and directors of the Bank of the State
of South Carolina be, and they are hereby authorized and required to close the branches and agencies of said bank, and that
the principal bank at Charleston shall cease to be a bank of
issue, but shall continue to act as a bank of deposit until further
action of the legislature; and the said president and directors
are hereby authorized and required to collect the assets and
property of the bank, and hold the same especially appropriated,
".First. To the payment of the principal and interest of the
bonds known as the Fire Loan bonds, payable in Europe.
"Second. To the payment of the principal and interest of the
Fire Loan bonds, payable in the United States; and,
" Third. To the redemption of outstanding notes hitherto
issued by said bank."
In October, 1867, before the scheme provided in this act
was carried out, Dabney, Morgan & Co., holding bills of the
bank, filed the bill in this case in the Chancery Court of
First Instance of the State for the Charleston District, on
behalf of' themselves and all other billholders of the bank,
against the Baring Brothers & Co. (the holders of £109,000
Fire Loan bonds), and the persons in South Carolina holding the $318,000 of the Fire Loan stock.
Dabney, Morgan & Co. insisted that the Fire Loan bondholders and Fire Loan stockholders were not creditors of
the bank, and that the act of 1865 was unconstitutional in
that, by directing the property of the bank to be applied to
the payment of the debts of the State, which were not debts
of the bank, it impaired the obligation of contracts. The
bill prayed that the bank might be restrained from carrying
the act into effect, and that the complainants and other billholders might be decreed to be paid out of the property and
assets of the bank.
The Barings, as Fire Loan bondholders, and the other defendants, as Fire Loan stockholders, answered, each relying
largely for himself on the clauses already quoted of the act

Oct. 1873.]

BARfIGS v. DABNEY.

5

Statement of the case.

of 1888; appropriating the profits of the loan (after the payment of the interest on the earlier 6 per cent. stock which
had confessedly long since been paid off) to the payment of
the Fire Loan; and the argument of their counsel, in view
of the fact that no separate account had been kept of the
profits, being that a pledge of profits carried the capital from
which the profits came; in the same way as the bequest of
the interest of public funds, or of the dividends of stock, or
a devise of the rents and profits of an estate, is a bequest of
the funds or stock themselves, or a devise of the estate from
which the rents and profits sprung.*
The Barings especially (rather than the Fire Loan stockholders) relied on the act of 1865. They said in their
answer:
"If it was apparent in 1865 that., from the force of circumstances, the State would be unable to meet its obligations at the
maturity of the bonds in July, 1868, this was in itself good ground
for legislative interference to confirm the appropriation of funds
as originally pledged.
"Nor was the act of 1865 either unconstitutional, as impairing the obligation of contracts, or contrary to good faith, equity,
or conscience.
"The bank had long suspended its payments, and, from the
events of the war, was not in a condition to pay at once all its
creditors. No bankrupt law existed at the time of the passage
of the act. The legislature represented the sole stockholder.
Its power and control over the bank was, at least, equal to that
of the united stockholders of a private bank. The bank was
but its servant. The legislative will was supreme. This paramount power, exercising for the corporation the ordinary privileges accorded, as defendants are advised, by the then existing
law, undertook to prefer certain named creditors, while the
whole of the assets were appropriated to the payment of debts,
nothing being reserved to the corporation or stockholder controlling. The defendants submit that the preferences made were
not only in conformity with the then existing law and with
good faith, but in accordance with the strictest equity and most
* Philipps v. Chamberlain, 4 Vesey, 51; Legard v. Hodges, 3 Brown's
Chuncery, 531; Stewart v. Garnett, 3 Simons, 398.

BARINGS v. DABNEY.

[Sup. OrL

Statement of the case.

enlightened conscience. They aver that the act was a statutory
assignment of' assets for the benefit of creditors, and that the
said assignment was executed by the highest power known to
the corporation, and in tbrm the most solemn."
During the pendency of this suit the legislature of South
Carolina, by an act passed September 15th, 1868, entitled
"An act to close the operations of the Bank of the State of
South Carolina," amongst other things repealed the eleventh
section of the act of December 21st, 1865, above referred to.
On the 7th of May, 1870, the Court of First Instance,
where the bill was filed, decreed that the Fire Loan bondholders and Fire Loan stockholders be first paid pari passu,
out of the assets of the bank, and that any surplus be applied pro rata to the billbolders, depositors, and other creditors, after adjusting the claims that arose during the wat
to the value thereof in United States currency. This decree
disregarded the eleventh section of the act of 1865 altogether,
as being unconstitutional, on two grounds: first, as disposing of property which the State did not own, and violating
a solemn contract, on the faith of which the loan was taken;
and secondly, as having no relation to the other matter of
the act, and the subject of it not being expressed, as the
constitution of South Carolina requires that each subject of
an act should be, in its title. The contract which the court
held to have been violated by this section, was the pledge
of profits contained in the eleventh and twelfth sections of
the act of 1838, authorizing the Fire Loan. The court held
not only that the pledge of the profits was a pledge of the
capital, but that the capital had all been drawn out by, and
returned to, the State, and that the resulting fund now remaining consisted only of profits. The court further held
that this pledge of profits related to both branches of the
Fire Loan alike, and that the Fire Loan slek stood on an
equal footing with the Fire Loan bonds, although the latter
only had been guaranteed by the bank.
The Supreme Court of South Carolina, on appeal, reversed this decree, placing the Fire Loan bondholders on an
equality with the other creditors, and holding that the Fire

.Oct. 1873.]

BARINGS

'tatement

v.

DABNEY.

of the case.

Loan stockholders were not creditors of the bank at all, and
not entitled to any participation in the fund; and directed
the assets to be distributed among all the creditors of the
bank, in proportion to the amount of their claims, reducing
those arising during the war to their value in National curreney.
The grounds on which this decree was made were:
First, that the pledge of profits in the act of 1888 expressly
related to profits as distinguished from the capital; that no
separate account of such profits had ever been kept; and
that the result was, in fact, a loss instead of profit, the small
residue of assets yet subsisting being the joint result of
capital, deposits, and moneys received from loans and discounts; and, therefore, that the pledge relied on by the Fire
Loan bondholders and stockholders had nothing specific
and distinct on which to attach; and that, in fact, nothing
was in existence on which it could attach.
Secondly, that the Fire Loan bondholders were to be admitted as creditors only by virtue of the express guarantee
of the bonds of the bank; and that the Fire Loan stockholders were to be excluded because the bank had never
guaranteed said stock.
Thirdly, that no claim could be sustained by either under
the eleventh section of the act of 1865, because that act did
not amount to an assignment (which could only be made by
the bank), but amounted only to a direction which was never
carried into effect, which the State, as sole stockholder of
the bank, could, at any time before its execution, revoke,
and which, by the act of September, 1868, repealing the
said section, it did revoke; and that if the act of 1865 had
amounted to an assignment, it could not have been sustained
as to the Fire Loan stockholders, because they were not even
creditors of the bank.
This decree was brought here by a writ of error, under
the second section of the act of the 5th of February, 1867.*
See the act (re-enacting or amendatory of or a substitute for the twenty.
fifth section of the Judiciary Act), 17 Wallace, 681. Appendix.

BARINGS

v.

DABNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The interposition of this court was invoked on the groupd
that the eleventh section of the act of 1865 became a contract with the Fire Loan bondholders and Fire Loan stockholders, and that the validity of the said contract was impaired by the act of 1868, which repealed the said section,
and which repealing act was sustained by the decree of the
Supreme Court of South Carolina.
Messrs. I W. -Hayneand W. W. Boyce, for the plaintiffs in
error; Mr. D. H Chamberlain, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question for us to decide is whether the eleventh
section of the act of 1865 did, as alleged, amount to, or did
Lecome, a contract with the appellants.
When that act was passed the bank was hopelessly insolvent. The section referred to was intended to prescribe the
manner in which its assets were to be distributed and its
afairs wound up. The State was the sole stockholder, and
the bank, as a corporation, could not complain of any course
of action which the legislature saw fit to adopt or prescribe.
In relation to the State, it was alter et idem. In this respect
its position was very different from that of private corporations. The action of the legislature could only be questioned
by the creditors of the bank. As to the bank itself, the
wishes of the legislature were commands. When, therefore, the legislature, by the eleventh section of the act of
1865, declared that "the president and directors [of the
bank] are hereby authorized and required to collect the assets
and property of the bank, and hold the same specially appropriated, first, to the payment of the principal and interest
of the bonds known as the Fire Loan bonds, payable in Europe; second, to the payment of the principal and interest
of the Fire Loan bonds, payable in the United States; and
third, to the redemption of outstanding notes hitherto issued
by the bank," this declaration, if valid, was not only a direction, but a law. It was a law which the bank could not
question; only creditors, whose interests were in conflict

Oct. 1873.]

BARINGS V. DABNEY.

Opinion of the court.

with it, could question it. As an enactment, it created ipso
facto, a trust, and made the bank a trustee for the parties
provided for by it. It was a trust on which the bondholders,
when made acquainted with its terms, had a right to rely.

They became, if they assented to it, cestuis que trust with
vested rights. Being made for their benefit, it will be presumed that they did assent to it, if they expressed no dissent.
It is unnecessary to go into the learning of voluntary assignments for the benefit of creditors. It is clear law that
such an assignment, if assented to by the creditors, or a
considerable portion of them, becomes irrevocable; and in
this country assent will be presumed if dissent is not expressed.*
In this case, it is true, no actual assignment was made.
But for the purpose of creating a trust it was not necessary.
The act was a law of the State making the corporation a
trustee. What special rights were thus created in favor of
the cestuis que trust will be noticed hereafter.
The creation of this trust in favor of the bondholders, if
valid, was a contract with them. Confiding in it, they would
desist from further efforts to secure the payment of their
claims by adverse proceedings. It would be unjust to them
to abrogate it, and place them where they stood when the
trust was created. The repeal of the section in question,
therefore, did impair the validity of this contract, and, if the
latter was valid, was a violation of the Constitution.
This conclusion, however, is based on the assumption that
the law itself, namely, the eleventh section of the act of 1865,
was a valid law. If it was not valid its repeal cannot be
questioned. It is contended before us that it is invalid because it appropriates the assets of the bank to persons who
are not creditors of the bank, but creditors of the State only.
The objection taken, if valid in fact, is a good one. It was
expressly decided in Curran v. The State of Arkansas,t that
if the capital of a State bank, like the one in question, be
The cases on this subject will be found collected in Burrill on Assignmnents, 84, 09, 418.
t 16 Howard, 804.

BARINGS

V. DABNEY.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

withdrawn by the State, either for the payment of its own
debts or for deposit in the State treasury, it is a violation of
the pledges by which the capital of the bank, though derived from State resources or State obligations, was set apart
and appropriated as the basis of the independent credit of
the bank; and that a law passed to effect such a withdrawal
or misappropriation impaired the validity of the contracts
held by the creditors of the bank.
That case had in it many features of the present one.
The legislature of Arkansas, amongst other things, required
the bonds of the State held by the Bank of Arkansas to be
given up and cancelled; and authorized the bank officers to
receive in payment of debts due the bank bonds of the State
issued to raise capital stock for the bank, notwithstanding
the bills of the bank might not have been taken up. "We
cannot attribute to this provision of the law," says the court,*
"any other meaning or effect than what is plainly apparent
on its face. It authorizes and requires the assets of the
bank to be appropriated to pay debts of the State; and we
cannot conceive bow this can be reconciled with the rights
of creditors to those assets." The bank in that case, as in
this, was insolvent, and the court held that all its assets
formed a trust fund for the payment of its creditors; and
that a stockholder could not lawfully withdraw any part of
this fund from appropriation to that object; and that a law
passed for that purpose was unconstitutional. The majority
of the court was clearly of opinion that a right on the part
of the State to withdraw the funds of the bank for the uses
of the State, or to pay the debts of the State, would render
the bank itself obnoxious to the tenth section of the first
article of the Constitution, which prohibits a State from
emitting bills of credit, inasmuch as it would destroy the
distinctive existence and independent credit of the bank,
which independent credit is founded on the inviolability of
the capital pledged for the payment of its debts.
Now, in this case, the assets of the Bank of the State of
* 15 Howard, 317.

Oct. 1873.1

BARINGS V.

DABNEY.

Opinion of the court.

South Carolina, which still remained in 1865, were the resultant of all its capital and operations. "We hold with the
Supreme Court of the State that they were not profits, nor
the subject of any previous pledge of profits to any specific
class of debts. Any question, therefore, arising upon any
such previous pledge may be laid out of the case. The only
question is, whether the appropriation by the State legislature of these assets to the payment, first, of the Fire Loan
bonds, and, secondly, of the Fire Loan stock, was valid and
effectual.
As to the latter, we think the Supreme Court was clearly
right. The Fire Loan stock was clearly not a debt of the
bank, but a debt of the State alone; and the appropriation
of the assets of the bank to its payment was directly within
the case of Curran v. The State of Arkansas.
As to the Fire Loan bonds, there is more room for doubt.
These bonds were the debts of the State, and not of the
bank, it is true, but their payment was guaranteed by the
bank; and it is strenuously insisted that this circumstance
rendered them so far obligations of the bank that the latter
might be justified in providing for their payment in preference to their other creditors. Had the bank done this, the
question as thus presented would have fairly arisen. But
the bank, as a distinct entity, never did make such an appropriation of its assets. The appropriation which was made
was an appropriation by law; and that law was made by the
State itself-the principal debtor. The case was the same,
in principle, as the Arkansas case. The legislature of South
Carolina, by law, appropriated the assets of the bank to pay
the debts of the State. This it could not do without violating the pledges made to the creditors of the bank, even
though the particular debts thus preferred were guaranteed
by the bank. The Fire Loan bonds were not due by several
years when this act of appropriation was attempted to be
made. No claim had yet accrued thereon against the bank.
So far as appears, there were not even any arrears of interest
due. It did not then appear that the bank ever would be
liable for the debt. It was the duty of the State to prevent

HODGES V.

VAUGHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

such liability from ever arising. These special circumstances
under which the law of 1865 was passed bring it still more
clearly within the decision of Carrauv. The State of Arkansas.
The decree of the Supreme Court of South Carolina must
AFFiRMED.
be
Mr. Justice STRONG: I concur in the judgment given
in this case, but not in all the positions taken in the opinion
of the majority of the court. I cannot regard the eleventh
section of the act of the General Assembly of South Carolina,
passed December 21st, 1865, as amounting either to an assignment or a declaration of trust of the property of the
bank in favor of the holders of the Fire Loan bonds. In
my opinion it effected no transfer, either legal or equitable,
and vested no interest in the creditors. Hence the repeal
of the act by the legislature, in 1868, was no disturbance of
any vested rights, and it is not obnoxious to the objection
that it impaired the obligation of any contract. For this
reason, and for this reason alone, I think the judgment
should be affirmed.
Justices MILLER and DAVIS expressed their concurrence in what was said by Mr. Justice Strong.

HODGES V. VAUGHAN.
When the only defect in a transcript sent to this court is that the clerk has
not appended to it his certificate that it contains the full record (there
being no allegation of contumacy), a certiorariis not the proper remedy
for relief to the plaintiff in error. ie should ask leave to withdraw
the transcript to enable him to apply to the clerk of the court below to
append thereto the necessary certificate.

THis Ivas a motion made on behalf of the plaintiff in
error for a certiorari upon suggestion of a diminution of a
record coming on error from the Circuit Court for the

