INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

DUNN.

[Sup. CL,

Statement of the case.

principal, being within the scope of the business, as a part
of the res .qeste.*
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

INSURANCE COMPANY

v.

DUNN.

1. Where, after a suit has been properly removed from a State court into
the Circuit Court of the United States, under the act of March 2d, 1867,
which allows such removal, in certain cases specified by it, "at any
time before the final hearing or trial of the suit," the State court still
goes on to adjudicate the case, against the resistance of the party who
got the removal, such action on its part is a usurpation, and the fact
that such a party has contested the suit in such State court, does not,
after a judgment against him, on his bringing the proceedings here for
reversal and direction to proceed no further, constitute a waiver on
his part, of the question of the jurisdiction of the State court to have
tried the case.
2. The language above quoted-" at any time before the final hearing or
trial of the suit"-of the act of Mlarch 2d, 1867, is not of the same import as the language of the act of July 27th, 1866, on the same general
subject-" at any time before the trial or final hearing." On the contrary, the word "final " in the first-mentioned act, must be taken to
Accordapply to the word " trial" as well as to the word "hearing."
ingly, although a removal was made after a trial on merits, a verdict,
a motion for a new trial mado and refused, and a judgment on the verdict, yet it having been so made in a State where by statute the party
could still demand, as of right, a second trial, held, that such first trial
was not a "1final trial" within the meaning of the act of Congress; the
party seeking to remove the case having demanded and having got leave
to have a second trial under the said statute of the State.

ERROR to the First Judicial District Court of Hamilton
County, Ohio; the case being thus:
The Judiciary Act of 1789,t thus enacts:
"If a suit be commenced in any State court by a citizen of
the State in which the suit is brought against a citizen of another
*

See I Phillips on Evidence, 4th Am. ed., p. 307, and note, also pp. 525,

526; Plaxton v. Dare, 10 Barnewall & Creswell, 17; Middleton v. Melton.
10 Id. 317.
t 1 Stat. at Large, 79.

Oct. 1873.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNN.
Statement of the case.

and the defendant shall at the time of entering his
State,
appearance in such State court file a petition for the removal of
the cause for trial into the next Circuit Court, to be held in the
district where the suit is pending, &c., . .. it shall then be the
duty of the State court ...to proceed no further in the cause."
Then came an act of July 27th, 1866.*
"If

It was thus:

in any suit . . . in any State court by a citizen of the

State in which the suit is brought against a citizen of another
State, ...a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought is
or shall be a defendant, and if the suit, so far as relates ...
to the defendant who is the citizen of a State other than that
in which the suit is brought, is or has been instituted or prosecuted for the purpose of restraining or enjoining him, or if the
suit is one in which there can be a final determination of the
controversy, so far as it concerns him, without the presence of
the other defendants as parties inthe cause, then, and in every
such case, . . . the defendant who is a citizen of a State other

than that in which the suit is brought, may, at any time before
the trial orfindl hearing of the cause, file a petition for the removal
of the cause as against him into the next Circuit Court of the
United States to be held in the district where the suit is pending, . . . and it shall be thereupon the duty of the State court
to . . proceed no further in the cause as against the defendant
so applying for its removal."
Finally came an act of March 2d, 1867.t

Its title is,

"An act to amend an act entitled 'An act for the removal of
causes in certain cases from State courts,"' approved July 27th,
1866.
It runs thus:
"Be it enacted, That the act entitled 'An act for the removal
of causes in certain cases from State courts,' approved July 27th,
1866, be and the same is hereby amended as follows: That
where a suit may hereafter be brought in any State court, in
which there is controversy between a citizen of the State in
which the suit is brought and a citizen of another State, such
citizen of another State, whether he be plaintiff or defendant,
if he will make and file in such State court an affidavit, stating
* 14 Star. at Large, 306.

t Ib. 558.

INSURANCE

COMPANY

v.

DUNN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

that he has reason to and does believe that from prejudice or
local influence he will not be able to obtain justice in such State
court, may, at any time before the final hearing or trial of the suit,
file a petition in such State court for the removal of the suit
into the next Circuit Court of the United States, to be held in
the district where the suit is pending, . and it shall be, thereproceed no further in
upon, the duty of the State court to .
the suit."
Each of these three acts enacts that after the case is removed, in the way which they respectively provide, into the
Circuit Court of the United States, it shall there proceed in
the same manner as if it had been brought in that court by
original process.
These statutes being in force, Mrs. Dunii, widow and administratrix of John Dunn, sued the Home Life Insurance
Company of Brooklyn, in one of the courts of common
pleas of Ohio, on a policy of insurance for $2000 on her
husband's life, and obtained a verdict against the company.
The company moved to set aside the verdict and for a new
trial. But upon consideration the court overruled the motion; and it was "therefore considered by the court that
the plaintiff recover her damages herein assessed, and the
costs to be taxed."
This, of course, in any court proceeding in the course of
the common law, would have been the end of all "trials," or
of other relief to the insurance company, except such as it
might have provided for itself through writ of error.
But the law of Ohio respecting second trials is somewhat
peculiar. The matter does not, as at common law, and in
most of the States, rest in the discretion of the court trying
the case, but rests in the option of the suitor himself. One
of the statutes of the State,* known as the Second Trial
Act, thus enacts:
"SEOTION 1. L second trial may be demanded and had in any
civil action which has been . . instituted in any court of com* 19An act to relieve District Courts, and to give greater efficiency to the
iudicial system of the State," passed &pril 12th, 1858, Swan & Critch.
teld's Statutes, 1155.

Oct. 1873.]

INSURANCE COMPANY v. DuNN.
Statement of the case.

mon pleas in this State, in which said courthas original juris.
dictivn, and in which either party has the right by law to demand a trial by jury. . . and after a judgment or final order has
been rendered, upon the terms and in the manner hereinafter
provided.
"SECTION 2. Any person desirous of such second trial.., shall
at the term of the court at which judgment was rendered, enter
... into an undertaking within the time hereinafter limited,
with security ... payable to the adverse party in such sum as
may be fixed by the court, and conditioned to the effect that
the party obtaining such second trial shall abide and perform
the order and judgment of the court, and pay all moneys, costs,
and damages which may be required or awarded against him
consequent upon such second trial."
Under this statute of the State, the insurance company
after trial and judgment demanded and had leave to have
"a second trial." The company gave a bond in $4000, conditioned that it should abide and perform the judgment of
the court, and pay all moneys which might be required of
or awarded against it consequent upon a second trial by the
Court of Common Pleas of Hamilton County.
At the next term of the court the company-assuming
that, notwithstanding the trial already had, they had (in
virtue of their demand for a second trial and their leave to
have it) not yet had a "final hearing or trial"-filed a petition in the Court of Common Pleas, where the case had been
tried, to remove it into the Circuit Court, under the last of
the above-quoted acts of Congress, the act, namely, of 1867,
quoted on pages 215-16. And the Court of Common Pleas
ordered the removal, and that no further proceedings should
be had before it. A transcript of the record was accordingly
filed in the Circuit Court, and the cause docketed there.
Mrs. Dunn, by her counsel, now appeared in that court and
moved to dismiss the case, as not having been -one for removal under any of the acts of Congress.
The ground of her motion apparently was that the petition for removal had been too late: that it should have
been before the trial in the Common Pleas; that under the
act of 1789 a defendant desiring to remove was bcund to

218

INSURANCE COMPANY v. DUN.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

petition for a removal, if he wanted one, "at the time of
entering his appearance ;" that under that of 1866, "at any
time before the trial or final hearing of the cause," and that
though in the act of 1867 there was a slight transposition
of words, so as to read "at any time before the final hearing or trial of the suit," the meaning in both acts was the
same, the words "final hearing" referring to proceedings in
equity, and the word "trial" to a proceeding at common
law; and even if this were not so, that the case was the same,
for that the company had had a final trial; that Congress
could not be supposed to have had reference to the very
peculiar local law of Ohio, about trials, of which perhaps
not ten of its members had ever heard, but was to be taken
to have referred to the general system of the common law,
which came to us all by inheritance, and still so widely prevailed over the nation; that thus viewed the company had
had a final trial; for it had had a trial on merits before a
jury, it had moved for and it had been refused a new trial
and a judgment had been entered against it, which was now
in existence, a lien upon its property; that the words "final
trial" were used in contradistinction to the words "interlocutory trial," and this trial not having been interlocutory was
final. Further than this, that if the application for removal, after a second trial was taken, was in time to be
within the terms of the act of March 2d, 1867, then that
the act violated the seventh amendment to the Constitution,
which reads thus:
"In suits at common law, where the value in controversy
shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be
preserved; and no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined in any court of the United States than according to
the rules of the common law."
It was said that one branch of this suit was a suit at common law, and that the amount in controversy exceeded
twenty dollars; and that all of the facts in the case were
tried by a jury, and their verdict was affirmed before the
case was removed into the Circuit Court for these same facts

Oct. 1873.]

INSURANCE

OOMPANY V.

DUNN.

219

Statement of the ease.

to be re-examined there, for a cause and under a proceeding
not known to the common law, nor within any of its rules.
It was said further, that the law of March 2d, 1867, was
unconstitutional for another reason, to wit, that it destroyed
the second trial bond that had been given in the State court
to secure the claim being litigated, without the process of
law, and without consideration or any equivalent bond being
substituted; that the condition of the bond to pay a j'dgment to be obtained at a second trial in the Court of Common
Pleas of Hamilton County, Ohio, was not answered by a
judgment obtained in the Circuit Court, and that the sureties
on the bond would not be liable to answer to such a jidgment.
But the Circuit Court was not of this view; and so, overruling the motion to dismiss, it retained the cause upon its
docket.
Mrs. Dunn then filed an amended declaration in the Circuit Court, and that was now pending there.
She now went back into the State courts, and by petition
for error filed in the District Court of Hamilton County (a
court superior to the Common Pleas, and having in general
jurisdiction to review its orders*), prayed for a reversal of
the order which the Common Pleas had made to remove the
case into the Circuit Court, and that it should be no further
proceeded in before it. The insurance company opposed
the application.
The District Court, however, did reverse the order; being
of opinion that the petition for removal, in being filed after
the trial, had not been filed in accordance with any act of
Congress, and that the removal was not authorized by law.
The insurance company then took the question of the
right of removal from the District Court to the Supreme
Court of the State. That court, like the District Court,
held-the bench being unanimous-that the removal, in
being made after the trial, was unauthorized by law and
void. It said:
Code,

512, 613; Swan & Critchfield's Statutes, 1099.

INSURANCE

o0iPANY V.

DUNN.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.
"This act of March 2, 1867, is an amendment of the act of
July 27, 1866, in which the language used is, that the petition
may be filed ' at any time before the trial or final hearing of the
cause.'

"We have no doubt the terms 'trial' and 'final hearing'
ought to have the same meaning in both acts, and that their
transposition in the amendatory act was merely accidental.
"The terms, it seems to us, were intended to embrace actions
at law and suits in equity-the word ' trial' having reference to
an action at law, and the words 'final hearing' to a suit in
equity; and that by 'the final hearing or trial of the suit,' is
meant a hearing or trial upon the merits, such as results in a
final judgment in an action at law, and a final decree in a suit
in equity.
"The act of Congress was, doubtless, intended to have the
same operation in all the States, irrespective of the difference
that may exist in the modes provided in the several States for
examining, in the appellate court, questions decided in the court
below.
"In this State, after final decree, equity cases are appealable
to the District Court, on the appellant giving notice and entering into an undertaking as required by the statute. In cases
in which either party has the right to a trial by jury, there can
be no appeal, but either party, after final judgment, by giving
notice of his demand, and entering into an undertaking as required by the statute, is entitled to a second trial. If no undertaking is given, the demand for a second trial and the notice of
appeal go for nothing; and the judgment or decree is conclusive
upon the rights of the parties. Such, also, is the effect of the
judgment or decree from the time of its rendition to the giving
of the undertaking. And notwithstanding the appeal or the
right to a second trial may be perfbcted, the lien of the judgment
or decree is continued until the determination of the cause on
appeal or second trial.
"It is competent for the legislature to take away the right
of appeal and of a second trial. If this were done there would
be no ground for the removal of the cause under the act of
Congress.
"The true construction of the act does not, we think, thus
make its operation depend upon whether the legislation of the
State allows or does not allow the exercise of appellate juris-

Oct. 1873.]

INSURANCE COMPANY v. DUNN.
Statement of the case.

diction after a common-law trial, or the final bearing of a suit
in equity in the court of original jurisdiction.
"To bring this case within the act of Congress would be to
allow the non-resident party to experiment with the jurisdiction
of the State courts. If the trial should result in his favor, it
would bind his adversary, but if it should result adversely to
him, he could escape the effect of the litigation by removing the
cause to another jurisdiction. To lead us to snch a conclusion,
'the intention ought to be expressed with irresistible clearness.'
"The conclusion at which we have arrived in this case is in
accordance with the decision of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin
in Akerly v. Vilas.* The judgment of the court in that case
was pronounced by Paine, J., in an able opinion, to which we
refer for a more elaborate discussion of the questions."
A second trial, contested by the company upon both law
and merits, was then had, in the Common Pleas, resulting
as before in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff, which
judgment the District Court, after hearing upon petition in
error, affirmed.
Upon petition averring these facts, a writ of error was
granted by one of the justices of this court, to the said District Court, directing the records and proceedings in the
cause to be certified to this court, which was accordingly
done, and the plaintiff in error, the insurance company,
sought, herein, to reverse the order of the said District
Court, asserting that the decision called in question the construction of the statute of 1867, of the United States, and
was against the right and privilege set up by the defendant,
the now plaintiff in error, thereunder.
The errors complained of were:
1st. The reversal by the District Court of the order of
renoval.

2d. The subsequent judgment in the Court of Common
Pleas after the jurisdiction of that court had been ousted by
the removal.
3d. The affirmance of the said judgment by the District
Court.
24 Wisconsin, 165.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

DUNN.

[Slip. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

Mr. it. A. Morill, with whom were Messrs. George Hoadly
an2d B. 31. Johnson,for the plaintiff in error; Mr. W. H. Standish,
contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The case involves a question of jurisdiction arising between State courts and a Federal court, which, though not
without interest, involves no difficulty in its solution.
The administratrix sued the insurance company upon a
life policy, in the Court of Common Pleas of Hamilton
County. She recovered a verdict, and thereafter a judgment was rendered upon it. The company applied for a
new trial, and gave bond pursuant to the laws of Ohio, in
that behalf.* This had the effect ot vacating the verdict
and judgment as if a new trial had been granted according
to the course of the common law, except that the lien or the
judgment remained for the security of the plaintiff, in addition to the bond given by the defendant. In this condition of things, the company petitioned the Court of Common
Pleas for the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of
the United States for that district, pursuant to the act of
Congress of March 2d, 1867.t The requirements of the
statute having been complied with, the cou't ordered that
no further proceedings be had there in the cause, and it was
removed to the Circuit Court.
The administratrix appeared in that court and moved that
the case be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The motion was overruled. The administratrix thereupon asked
leave to file an amended petition in that court. Leave was
granted. The petition was filed, and is still pending there.
She thereupon instituted proceedings in error in the District
Court for the county to reverse the order made by the Court
of Common Plea,, and a judgment of reversal was rendered.
The company applied to the Supreme Court of the State for
leave to file a petition in error. Leave was refused. This
in effect affirmed the judgment of the District Court. A
* Swan

& Critchfield's Revised Statutes, 1155.

- 14 Stat. at Large, 658.

Oct. 1873.]

INSURANCE COMPANY v. DUNN.
Opinion of the court.

second trial was thereupon had in the Common Pleas, and
tle administratrix recovered a second judgment. The company removed the case to the District Court of the county
by a petition in error. That court affirmed the judgment
The company thereupon sued out this writ of error, and the
entire record in the State courts is thus brought before us
for review.
It is insisted that the company, by appearing and contesting the claim in the second trial, waived the question of jurisdiction, and was bound by the judgment. To this there
are several answers.
The company resisted the reversal of the order of removal
made by the Common Pleas, and did all in its power to that
end. Having failed, and being forced into a trial, it lost
none of its rights by defending against the action.
The cause was out of the Common Pleas, and in the Circuit Court. The former had jurisdiction to remit and the
latter to receive it. Being in the latter, that court had jurisdiction to retain it. If there were error on the part of
the Circuit Court in overruling the motion to dismiss, because the case had been improperly brought there, the remedy should have been sought in the Federal courts. The
State courts were incompetent to give it. The authority of
the latter was at an end until the case should be restored,
if that were ever done, by the action of the former. Nothing
is lost to the State courts by the application of this rule, for
if they refuse improperly to permit a case to be removed,
their refusal is liable to be reviewed and reversed by the
Federal tribunals, and the power of paramount and final
judgment rests with them.* The same rule of exclusion
applies in fa.vor of a State or Federal court which first gets
possession of a case over which both have jurisdiction.t
The conditions prescribed having been complied with, the
act of Congress expressly required the State court where it
was originally pending, "to proceed no further in the suit."
* Gordon v. Longest, 16 Peters, 97.

t Hagan v. Lucas, 10 Id. 400; Taylor v. Carryl, 20 Howard, 583.

INSURANCE

COAPANY

V. DUNN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The further proceedings of the Common Pleas was a clear
case of usurped jurisdiction. The illegality was gross. The
action of the District and Supreme Court of the State gave
them no validity. The maxim, that consent cannot give
jurisdiction, applied with full force. Gordon v. Lougest* is
exactly in point and conclusive.
This brings us to the cardinal inquiry in the case. It is
maintained by the counsel for the administratrix, that the
order of removal by the Common Pleas was erroneously
made, the first verdict and judgment being "final" within
the meaning of the act of Congress and the laws of Ohio.
If the point be well taken the judgment must be affirmed.
Otherwise it must be reversed.
It is not denied that the requirements of the act of Congress were fully complied with. No question is raised upon
that subject. The proposition involves the construction and
effect of the act, and of the laws of Ohio under which the
transfer was made. The act declares that the petition may
be filed "at any time before the final hearing or trial of the
suit." It is contended that the qualifying adjectivefinal applies to the term " h earing" and not to "trial," and that any
trial, whether final or not, is conclusive against the petitioner. This is too narrow a view. It is contrary to the
grammatical construction and the obvious import of the
words. The repetition of final before trial would have been
tautology. To produce such a result as that contended for,
the indefinite article should have been placed before tha
word "trial," so that the language would have been,-before
the final hearing or a trial. This would doubtless have been
done if such had been the intent of the act. The statute is
remedial, and must be construed liberally, There is no
reason for interpolating this limitation. The adjective must
be taken distributively and applied as well to the second as
to the first term, and to both alike. The test is whether the
* 16 Peters, 97; see also Stevens & Dwight v. Phoenix Insurance Co., 41
New York, 149; Kanouse v. :Martin, 14 Howard, 23; Same v. Same, 15 Id
198; Hadley et al. v. Dunlap et al., 10 Ohio State, 1.

Oct. 1873.]

INSURANCE COMPANY v. DuNN.
Opinion of the court.

hearing or the trial is the final one in the cause. It would
be a strange anomaly if in equity and admiralty cases a final
hearing only, could take away the right of removal, while
any trial, however interlocutory in its character, should have
the same effect in an action at law. This would be in conflict alike with the letter, the spirit, and the meaning of the
act, and would largely defeat the purpose of its enactment.
It was intended to permit the removal at any time before a
hearing or trial, final in the cause as it stood, when the application for the transfer was made.
The proposition that the first judgment of the Common
Pleas was final within the meaning of the laws of Ohio
cannot be maintained. To say that there can be two final
judgments upon the same pleadings, in the same cause, in
the same court, and for exactly the same things, as the results
of two successive trials, involves a solecism. If the first
judgment was not final the first trial could not have been
so. When the demand for a new trial was made, and the
requisite bond was given and approved, the case stood upon
the docket in all respects as if a new trial had been granted
for some error or defect in the former trial, irrespective of
the laws in question, and as if no previous trial had taken
place. It is true that the lien of the judgment was preserved, but that was an incident remaining after the principal thing had been put an end to. It was like the bond, for
the security of the plaintiff, and for no other purpose. The
former affects the question of the finality of the first trial
no more than the latter. The law of Ohio declares that the
bond shall be "conditioned to the effect, that the party obtaining such second trial shall abide and perform the order
and judgment of the court, and pay all money, costs, and
damages which may be awarded against him, consequent
upon such second trial." The proceeding is thus designated and regarded as a "second trial." The judgment
following-unless reversed or set aside-is the one to be
satisfied, and it must necessarily be the final, and the only
final one. The same remarks as to finality apply to the trial
which pre-2eded it.
VOL. XIX.

15

226

INSURANoE COMPANY v. DUNN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

In the act of Congress of 1866,* the language used in this
connection is, "at any time before the trial or final hearing." If the difference in the act of 1867 be material, it is
fair to presume that the change was deliberately made to
obviate doubts that might possibly have arisen under the
former act and to make the latter more comprehensive.
The fact that, under our construction, a case which has
made progress, however far, if it has not passed the final
lrial, is liable to be removed, has little weight as an adverse
argument. Under the Judiciary Act of 1789, cases that
-have reached their termination in the highest courts of the
States, may be brought here by a writ of error for review,
and the practice in conformity to that section has been con-,
stant fiom the organization of this court down to the present
time. If the act be unwise, the remedy lies with the legis.
lature and not the judicial department of the government.
Of the constitutionality of this act ve entertain no doubt.
The question is not an open one in this court. A few remarks will be sufficient to dispose of the subject. The third
article of the Constitution declares that the judicial power
of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court
and in such inferior courts as Congress may from time to
time establish, and that it shall extend, among other things,
to "controversies" "between citizens of different States."
As regards the inferior courts authorized to be established,
Congress may give them such jurisdiction, both original
.and appellate, within the limits of the Constitution, as it
may see fit to confer. How their appellate jurisdiction shall
be exercised, is not declared. The whole subject is remitted
to the unfettered discretion of Congress. It may be applied
to any other inferior Federal court, and to any State court
where a case is presented which, by reason of the character
of the parties or a question involved, falls within the scope
of such judicial cognizance. Courts of the States and those
of the nation are alike within its sphere, and its exercise
may be authorized before or after judgment in the tribunals
over which it is extended.
* 14 Stat. at Large, 307.

Oct. 1873.]

SAVINGS BANK V. UNITED STATES.

227

Syllabus.

This act is confined to controversies between citizens of
different States, and the power given to the Circuit Court
is appellate. The jurisdiction involves the same principle,
and rests upon the same foundation with that conferred by
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789. The
constitutionality ol that provision has been uniformly sustained by the unanimous judgment of this court, whenever
the subject has been presented for adjudication. The twelfth
section of the act of 1789, and the third section of the act of
the 2d of March, 1833, relating to revenue officers, present
the same question. We are not aware that a doubt of the
validity of either has ever been expressed by any Federal
court. The acquiescence is now universal. The subject
was elaborately examined in Marlin v. Hunter.*
The seventh amendment to the Constitution, touching the
re-examination in the courts of the United States of facts
which have been tried by a jury, has no application to this
case, because the first judgmenit had been vacated, the first
verdict set aside, and a new trial granted, as before stated,
when the cause was removed to the Circuit Court.
The judgment of affirmance by the District Court and the
judgment affirmed are nEVERSED, and the District Court and
the Court of Common Pleas will be directed to
PROCEED NO FURTHER IN THE SUIT.

THE DOLLAR SAVINGS BANK V. UNITED STATES.
1. The ninth section of the Internal Revenue Act of 1866 subjects to the
tax of five per cent. laid on the undistributed sum or sums made and
added during the year to their surplus or contingent funds, by banks and
savings institutions generally, such sum or sums, when made and added
to such funds even by savings banks without stockholders or capital
stock, and which do the business of receiving deposits to be lent or invested for the sole benefit of their depositors.
* 1 Wheaton, 333; see also The Mayor v. Cooper, 6 Wallace, 247.

