Oct. 1873.]

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS V. GORMAN.

661

Syllabus.

cate one of taxation. This power belongs in this country to
the legislative sovereignty, State or National. In the case
before us the National sovereignty has nothing to do with it.
The power must be derived from the legislature of the State.
So far as the present case is concerned, the State has delegated the power to the levee commissioners. If that body
has ceased to exist, the remedy is in the legislature either to
assess the tax by special statute or to vest the power in some
other tribunal. It certainly is not vested, as in the exercise
-of an original jurisdiction, in any Federal court. It is unreasonable to suppose that the legislature would ever select
a Federal court for that purpose. It is not only not one of
the inherent powers of the court to levy and collect taxes,
but it is an invasion by the judiciary of the Federal government of the legislative functions of the State government.
It is a most extraordinary request, and a compliance with it
would involve consequences no less out of the way ofjudicial
procedure, the end of which no wisdom can foresee.
In the case of Walkley v. City of Muscatine and Rees v. City
of Watertown, already cited, we have distinctly refused to
enter upon this course, and we see no reason in the present
case to depart from the well-considered judgment of the
court in those cases, especially the latter.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Dissenting, Mr. Justice CLIFFORD and Mr. Justice
SWAYNE.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY did not sit.

BOARD OF OM MISSIONERS

v.

GORMAN.

1. A writ of error or appeal may operate as a supersedeas under the eleventh
section of the act of June 1st, 1872, "to further the administration of
justice" (and which allows any person desiring to have a judgment, decree, or order, &c., reviewed on error or appeal, and to stay proceedings
during the peandency of such writ of error or appeal, to "give the

662

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS V. GORMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

General statement of the case.
securiy required by law therefor within sixty days after the rendition
of such judgment, decree, or order," &c.), when it is applied for and
bond is filed within sixty days from the rendition of the judgment or
decree.
2. But this does not prevent an execution from being issued after the lapse
of ten days, as contemplated by the twenty-third section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
3. The supersedeas under the act of 1872, by filing the bond within sixty
days, stays further proceedings, but does not interfere with what has
already been done.
Thus where one has been ousted from office by virtue of a writ on a judgment rendered on the 20th of January, and the writ was executed by
ousting him on the 3d of February, and on the latter day a supersedeas
bond was filed, but subsequently to the execution of the writ, Held that
no relief could be had under the act of 1872.
4. In calculating the lapse of time, the date of the entry of judgment governs, and not the date when the judgment was read to and signed by
the judges.

IN this case, which came here on error to the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Idaho, the board of commissioners
of Boise County and B. T. Davis, plaintiffs in error, asked
that a writ might issue from this court commanding the
restoration of the said Davis to the office of assessor and tax
collector of Boise County for the reason, as was alleged,
that he had been ousted from that office by virtue of a writ
issued upon the judgment in the court below, after the allowance of a writ of error to this court, which operated as a
supersedeas.
The application was founded on the supposed effect which
the eleventh section of an act of June 1st, 1872, entitled
'An act to further the administrationof justice," had upon cer.ain provisions of the Judiciary Act.
This last-named act,-it will be remembered, after enacting
by its twenty-second section that final judgments in the Circuit Court may be examined and reversed or affirmed in
the Supreme Court, the citation being in such case signed
by a judge of the Circuit Court or justice of the Supreme
Court, and the adverse party having at least thirty days'
notice,... continues:
"And every justice or judge signing a citation on any writ
of error as aforesaid, shall take good and sufficient security, that

Oct. 1873.]

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS V. GORMAN.

66?

Statement of the case in the opinion.
the plaintiff in error shall prosecute his writ to effect, and
answer all damages and costs if he fail to make his plea good."
The next section proceeds:
"SE cTIoN 23. A writ of error, as aforesaid, shall be a supersedeas and stay of execution in cases only where the writ of error
is served by a copy thereof being lodged in the clerk's office,
where the record remains, within ten days (Sundays exclusive)
after rendering the judgment complained of, until the expiration
of which term of ten days executions shall not issue in any case
where a writ of error may be a supersedeas."*

The eleventh section of the act of 1872, above referred to
as the basis of the application now made, thus enacts:
"Any party or person, desiring to have any judgment, decree,
or order of any District or Circuit Court reviewed on writ of
error or appeal, and to stay proceedings thereon during the pendency of such writ of error or appeal, may give the security
required by law therefor within sixty days after the rendition of
such judgment, decree, or order, or afterward, with the permission of a justice or judge of the said appellate court."
The reader who has possessed himself of the case of Telegraph Company v. Eyser, reported at much length in a former
part of this volume,t will, of course, see that the case now
reported presents a sort of complementary one to that, and
disposes of one of the questions there mentioned, the third,
as being involved in the new enactment.
Mr. H. -. Pricketl, in support of the motion ; XMssrs. H. S.
Poole and G. V. Paschal,contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court,
stating the facts of the case in it.
In order that a writ of error may operate as a supersedeas,
it is necessary that a copy of the writ should be lodged for
* By an act of 1803, amendatory of the Judiciary Act, ", appeals" were
made subject to the same rules, regulations, and re3trictions as were pre-

scribed in cases of writs of error.
t See page 419.

664

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS V. GORMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

the adverse party in the clerk's office where the record remains, and that the bond approved by the judge allowing
the writ should also be filed there.* Execution cannot issue
upon the judgment until the expiration of ten days, exclusive of Sundays, from the entry thereof. If the writ of error
and bond are filed before the expiration of the ten days, no
execution can issue so long as the case in error remains undisposed of. After the expiration of the ten days an execution may issue. Notwithstanding this, under the provisions
of the act of 1872,t upon the filing of the bond within sixty
days from the time of the entry of the judgment a supersedeas may be obtained. Such a supersedeas, however,
stays proceedings only from the filing of the bond. It pre.
vents further proceeding under an execution which has
been issued, but does not interfere with what has already
been done.
In this case the record shows that the judgment was
actually entered on the 20th day of January. The entry as
made was read in court on the morning of the 21st and the
record signed by the judges, but it was ordered to be made
on the 20th. The ten days, exclusive of Sundays, prescribed
by the act of Congress for delay of execution, expired on
Saturday, the 31st of January. On Monday, the 2d of February, a majority of the judges of the court directed the
clerk to issue a writ of restitution to carry the judgment
into effect. On the same day the chief justice of the court
allowed a writ of error and signed the necessary citation.
A copy of the writ of error was filed in the clerk's office,
and the writ and citation actually served upon the defendant
in error before the clerk had completed the preparation of
the writ of restitution. After he had completed its preparation he handed it to the attorney for the defendant in error,
who had previously been served with the citation. No supersedeas bond was filed with the clerk on the 2d, and no
notice was given that any had been approved. On the morning of the 3d of February the writ of restitution was served
and Davis removed from his office. After this, and on the
O'Dowd v. Russell, 14 Wallace, 405.

t 17 Stat. at Large, 198,

11.

Oct. 1873.]

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS V. GORMAN.

665

Opinion of the court.

same day, a bond approved by the chief justice was left in the
clerk's office by him. It nowhere appears from the record
when this bond was approved. It bears date the 2d of February, but there is no certificate of the time when the approval was entered. It is certain, however, that it was not
filed in the clerk's office until after service of the writ of
restitution. The writ of error operated as a supersedeas
only from such filing. That was too late to prevent the removal of Davis from his office in pursuance of the authority of
the judgment; and we cannot now order him to be restored.
It is claimed, however, that as the record of the judgment
was not signed by the judges of the court until the 21st, the
ten days did not commence to run until that date, and we
are referred to the case of Silsby v. Foote,* as establishing
such a rule. In that case the decision was actually rendered
on the 28th August, but the decree was special in its terms,
and was not settled or signed by the judge until the 11th
December. Before any entry could be made it was necessary that the judge should pass upon its form. It was, therefore, quite right to delay the appeal until the exact character
of the decree could be known.
Here, however, the form of the judgment was settled upon
the announcement of the decision, and it was entered accordingly.
But the writ of restitution was not served until after the
expiration of ten days from the 21st, and it does not appear
that it was actually delivered to the sheriff for service before
that time. There is nothing to prevent the preparation by
the clerk of an execution before the expiration of the ten
days. It cannot be issued before, and it is not issued until
it is placed beyond the control of the clerk himself. So long
as it remains with him, or under his control, it is like any
other paper in his office.
We think the motion must be DENIED, and in accordance
with the request of the parties made at the argument,
THE CASE IS DISMISSED.
* 20 Howard, 290.

