OCTOBER TERM, 1952.

574

Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

CITY OF CHICAGO v. WILLETT COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 23. Argued October 17, 1952.-,-Decided February 9, 1953.
Respondent is an Illinois corporation with its place of business in
Chicago. It owns a fleet of trucks which it uses to transport
goods for hire within Chicago as well as between Chicago and
points in neighboring States. Every day each truck carries some
goods which never leave the City and some destined for neighboring.States.. Held: 'As applied to respondent, an ordinance of the
City of Chicago levying an annual license tax ranging, according
-to capacity, from $8.25 to $16.50 on each truck operated for hire
"within the city" is not inconsistent with the Commerce.Clause
when not shown to be in fact a burden on interstate commerce.
Pp. 574-580.
409 Ill. 480, 101 N. E. 2d 205, reversed.

The Supreme Court of Illinois held an ordinance of the
City of Chicago levying an annual license tax on trucks
operated for hire within the City unconstitutional as applied t6 respondent's trucks. 409 Ill. 480, 101 N. E. 2d
205. This Court granted certiorari. 343 U. S. 940.
Reversed and remanded, p. 580.
Arthur Magid argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were John J. Mortimer and L. Louis
Karton.

Charles Dana Snewind argued the cause for respondent. With him on the 'brief were William J. Lunch and
George J. Schaller.
delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Once more we are called upon to pass on the validity
of a tax which falls in some measure upon commerce
"among the several States." In the situation before us,
MR.

JusrICE FRANKFURTER

CHICAGO- v. WILLETT CO.
'514

Opinionof the Court.

it is not a tax imposed on interstate commerce as such.
It is a tax intended to fall on business done "within the
city" that levies it, although in part it is imposed on carriers of intrastate and interstate commerce inseparably
commingled. The tax is on trucks and is levied by an
ordinance of 'the City of Chicago, of which the riele.vant
portions are set out in the margin.1 It is graduated according to size, ranging from $8.25 on a truck of no more
than two-ton capacity to $16.50 on a truck of.more than
four-ton capacity. Penalties are provided for failure to
pay the tax.
Respondent is an Illinois corporation and has its place
of business in Chicago. It owns a fleet of trucks which
it employs to transport goods within Chicago, between
Chicago 'and other points in Illinois, and between Chicago, and other points in Illinois, and points in Indiana
"Every

...

truck . . . which shall be operated . . . for the pur-

pose of transporting . . . goods . . . within the city for hire or
reward, shall be deemed a cart ....
"Any person engaged in the business of operating a cart shall be
deemed a carter.
"An annual license tax is imposed upon every carter for each cart
operated or controlled by him, according to the following schedule:
"Automotive vehiclesCapacity not exceeding two. tons ...................... $8.25
Capacity exceeding two but not exceeding three tons ....11.00
- Capacity exceeding three but not exceeding four tons .... 13.20
Capacity exceeding four tons .......................... 16.50
"It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
a carter without first having paid such license tax.
"Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined . . . ." Municipal Code of Chicago, c. 163,. Journal of the
.Proceedings of the City Council of the City of Chicago, Illinois,
January 14, 1949, p. 3679.

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

and Wisconsin. It is stipulated that each of respondent's
vehicles "during every single day of the year carries on
it along with property which never leaves the city . . .
property destined to some point outside the State of
Illinois."

Upon respondent's failure to pay the tax the present
proceedings were instituted by the City of Chicago in
its Municipal Court. The verdict having' gone against
the City, the Supreme Court of Illinois, on appeal,
affirmed the judgment of acquittal, holding that respondent was "not subject to the license tax" because it "cannot separate its loads, nor can it discontinue any part of
the service." City of Chicago v. Willett Co., 406 Ill. 286,
295, 94 N. E. 2d 195, 200.
Being left in* doubt by the Illinois court's opinion
whether it had held that the ordinance could not, because
of the Commerce Clause, be validly applied to the re-.
spondent's situation or had construed the ordinance so as
.not to cover a situation like respondent's, we granted certiorari and remanded for clarification. 341 U. S. 913. A
restatement of its holding left us in no doubt that the
Supreme Court of Illinois did not rest its affirmance on a
restrictive construction of the ordinance, excluding respondent from its scope, but found that as applied* to
respondent the ordinance runs afoul of the Commerce
Clause. City of Chicago v, Willett Co., 409 Ill. 480, 101
N. E. 2d 205. We granted certiorari to review this judgment because it raises questions of importance to the
Nation's. major transportation centers. 343 U. S. 940.
"It being once admitted, as of course it must be, that
not every law that affects commerce among the States
is a regulation of it in a constitutional sense, nice distinctions are to be expected," Galveston, Harrisburg&
San Antonio R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 225. This
case does not: raise the difficulties so often encountered

CHICAGO v. WILLETT CO.
574

Opinion of the Court.

when determination of the validity of State action affecting interstate commerce requires an accommodation between a State's undoubted power over its own internal
commerce and the national interest in the unrestricted
flow of interstate commerce. This tax, as it falls on
respondent, an Illinois corporation having its place of
business in Chicago, is clearly unassailable under the
authority of New York Central R. Co. v. Miller, 202
U. S. 584, which we reaffirmed in Northwest Airlineq, Inc.
v. Minnesota, 322 U. S. 292. However, "nice distinctions" have been argued to us and they should be
considered.
It is said on the one hand that Osborne v. Florida,164
U. S. 650, PullmanCo. v. Adams, 189 U. S. 420, and Pacific
Telephone Co. v. Tax Commission, 297 U. S. 403, decide
this case, and on the other that it is controlled by cases
such as Adams Express Co. v. New York, 232 U. S. 14,
Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642, Sprout v.
South Bend, 277 U. S. 163, and Cooney v. Mountain
States Telephone Co., 294 U. S. 384. As was true in
Pacific Telephone Co. v.. Tax Commission, supra,the taxpayer's principal argument in this case has been that
the tax is necessarily void because the taxpayer is not
free to withdraw from the local business, which alone
the statute purports to tax, without discontinuing its interstate business as well. Respondent relies heavily on
Sprout v. South Bend, supra. But Mr. Justice Brandeis,
who wrote for the Court in Sprout, pointed out in the
Pacific Telephone case that inaprout the taxpayer could
not avoid the tax by restricting-himself to interstate business only and withdrawing from local business, because
the tax, by its terms, fell on exclusively interstate, as well
as intrastate, business conducted from the City of South
Bend. 297 U. S., at 416-417. That was the controlling
'fact in Sprout, which was absent in the Pacific Telephone

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U.S.

case, and is absent in this case also, since the Illinois
Supreme Court has told us that. the Chicago ordinance
is not to be read as imposing a tax on trucks which do
not carry goods within the City. City of Chicago v.
Willett Co., supra, 406 Ill., at 289-290, 94 N. E. 2d, at
197-198. Thus, as regards the main point pressed by respondent, the Chicago tax avoids the infirmity laid bare
by the Sprout case, and meets the facts of Osborne v.
Florida,supra, and Pullman Co. v. Adams, supra, as did
the Pacific Telephone case. Again, as in Pacific Telephone, the taxpayer here makes-no showing that the tax,
though directed at intrastate business only, in fact burdens interstate commerce. This is for the taxpayer to
show affirmatively and respondent has made no attempt
to do so.
But, if it were necessary to decide upon the basis of
the "nice distinctions" urged upon us, we could not rest
without more on the authority of Pacific Telephone.
For the tax in that case was measured by a percentage of
the gross income drawn solely from intrastate business.Although the taxpayer's intrastate and interstate activities were inseparable, the tax was not laid inseparably on
both. 297 U. S., at 414. That is not true in this case.
Here the tax falls inseparably on what have been called
instrumentalities of interstate commerce, which are at
once also -those of intrastate commerce. Whatever intrinsic significance this difference may have in other situations, it becomes irrelevant in a case controlled, as is
this one, by the governing principles of New York Central
2
R. Co. v. Miller, supra.
2 The Miller case was not considered by the Court in Adams
Express Co. v. New York, supra; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co.,
supra; Cooney v.. Mountain States Telephone Co., supra; or Sprout
v. South Bend, supra. It was inapplicable to the facts of the first
three cases. In Adams Express, circumstances surrounding the im-

CHICAGO v. WILLETT CO.
574

Opinion of the Court.

In the Miller case, the taxpayer, a railroad company,
was "a New York corporation owning or hiring lihies
without as well as within the State . . . and sending its
cars to points without as well as within the State, and
over other lines as well as its own." 202 U. .S., at 593.
The cars were often not in the company's possession for
some time. The State of New York levied a tax computed on the basis of the amount of the capital stock
employed within the State. The Court held that the
railroad's property could constitutionally be subjected
to this tax by New York, as that State was its
permanent situs, "notwithstanding its occasional excursions to foreign parts." 202 U. S., at 597; see Northwest
Airlines v. Minnesota, supra, 322 U. S., at 299, n. 4' In
the Northwest Airlines case, the taxpayer, a Minnesota
corporation, used St. Paul as the home port for all its
planes. The rebuilding and overhauling of planes was
done in St. Paul. Minnesota assessed a tax against the
airline on the basis of ttie entire fleet coming into the
State. We held, on the authority of the Miller case, that
"[t]he benefits given to Northwest by Minnesota and for
which Minnesota taxes-its corporate facilities and the
governmental resources which Northwest enjoys in the
conduct of its business in Minnesota-are concretely
symbolized by the fact that Northwest's principal place
of business is in St. Paul ....
The relation between
position and enforcement of the tax indicated an attempt to exert
control over interstate commerce for reasons and purposes not sanctioned by the Commerce Clause. In the Bowman case the taxpayer
was a foreign corporation. In Cooney this fact is recited by the
Court. In Sprout,. however, the taxpayer was a resident, and it

would appear that South Bend was his place of business. The
Sprout case rests, as is true of all decisions in this field, on the precise facts surrounding the challenged tax-its scope, its relation to the
taxing scheme of State or City, its amount, its practical consequences,
and other relevant factors.

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
REED, J., concurring in judgment.

344 U. S.

Northwest and Miniresota-a relation existing between
no other State and Northwest-and the benefits which
this relation affords are the constitutional foundation for
the taxing power which Minnesota has asserted." 322
U. S., at 294. And the two concurring opinions in the
Northwest Airlines case harmonize with the result we
reach here. Indeed, the "home port" theory favored by
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

322 U. S., at 306, fits a fleet of

trucks at least as well as it does a fleet of airliners.
. The central and decisive fact in this case is that respondent's business has, as much as any transportation
business can have, a home. That home is Chicago. To
the extent that: respondent's business is not confined
within the City's limits, it revolves around the City.
It is fed by terminals fpr rail and sea transportation
which the City provides. It receives, much more continuously than did the airline in the Northwest Airlines
case or the railroad in the Miller case, the City's protection, and it benefits from the City's public services. In
the circumstances, a tax of reasonable proportions such as
the one in question, not shown in fact to be a burden on
interstate commerce, is not inconsistent with the Commerce Clause.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is reversed and the cause remanded to that Court for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE REED, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE
joins, concurring in the judgment.

I agree with the conclusion reached by the Court. In
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Tax Commission,
297 U. S. 403, it was held that "No decision of this
Court lends support to the proposition that an occupation

CHICAGO v. WILLETT CO.
574

REED,

J., concurring in judgment.

tax upon local business, otherwise valid, must be held void
merely because the local and interstate branches are for
some reason inseparable." Page 415. Cf. Sprout v.
South Bend, 277 U. S. 163, 171; Pullman Co. v. Adams,
189 U. S. 420.
The Chicago "carters tax" is strictly an occupational
tax for carrying goods within the City. City of Chicago
v. Willett Co., 406 Ill. 286, 290, 94 N. E. 2d 195, 198. I do
not think that New York Central R. Co. v. Miller, 202
U. S. 584, is a precedent to uphold .such a tax as this on
the ground that the taxpayer is a corporation of the taxing state and doing business in Chicago. The tax in the
Miller case was measured by the capital employed in the
state. All railroad cars of the taxpayer except those outside the state "during the whole tax year" were included
in the measure. Page 595. The validity to so tax turned
on the railroad's failure to show, by some form, of, appor-:
tionment, taxability in other states. Page 597. I find
nothing in the conclusion and judgment of the Cour .in
Northwest Airlines v. Minnesota, 322 U. S. 292, that
would make the Miller case applicable to this situation,
even if the "conclusion" were an opinion of this Court. If
I understand the Court's present opinion correctly, it decides that this occupation tax is valid merely because the
taxpayer is an Illinois corporation with its business home
in Chicago, the taxing body. The facts that it is an Illinois corporation and that its trucks are sometimes out of
the state are not controlling. The corporation is taxable
because it does intrastate business on the streets of
Chicago.
Whether the tax is expressly declared to be for the use
of the highways or for other state services or protection
rendered interstate business is imnaterial. This is_ a
charge obviously for the use of the highways of the City
by the carters and therefore valid. See Union Broker-

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

344 U. S.

age Co. v. Jen8en, 322 U. S. 202, 211-212; Southern
Gas Corp. v. Alabama, 301 U. S. 1.48, 153; and Caskey
Baking Co. v. Virginia, 313 U.S. 117, 119.'
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, dissenting.

If a carrier had two trucks, one engaged exclusively in
intrastate commerce and the other engaged exclusively
in interstate commerce, I think this tax could not constitutionally be levied on the latter. Like the tax in Sprout
v. South Bend, 277.,U. S. 163, 170, it is not designed
"as a measure of the cost or value of the use of the highways." As the Supreme Court of Illinois said, it is an
occupational tax. 406 Ill. 286, 290, 94 N. E. 2d 195, 198.
It therefore could not be exacted for the privilege of engaging in interstate commerce. Sprout v. South Bend,
supra, p. 171; Spector Motor Service v. O'Connor, 340
U. S; 602.
The incidence of the tax in the present case is no different. It is a flat fee per truck. Respondent does not
segregate its intrastate from its interstate business; nor
is it possible for it to do so; nor could respondent continue
in business if there were a segregation. 406 Ill. 286, 291293, 94 N. E. 2d 195, 198-199. One truck often makes
both intrastate and interstate deliveries. The interstate
business, by increasing the number of trucks operated by
respondent, therefore increases the amount of the tax.
That for me is enough to establish an unconstitutional
burden on interstate commerce. This case therefore is
not controlled by Pacific Tel. Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 297
.U. S. 403, 414, where the interstate business did not increase the amount of the tax.
The burden on commerce is as great whether the tax
on the interstate carrier is imposed by the state of its
incorporation or by another state. That is implicit in
Sprout v. South Bend, supra, a case which it seems to
me is faithful to the, constitutional scheme.

