392

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Syllabus.

344 U. S.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. MOTION
PICTURE ADVERTISING SERVICE CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 75.

Argued December 8, 1952.-Decided February 2, 1953.

1. Respondent produces advertising motion pictures and distributes
them in interstate commerce. It had exclusive contracts with
40% of the theatres which exhibit such films in the area where it
operates. It and three other companies had exclusive contracts
with 75% of such theatres in the United States. The Federal
Trade Commission found, upon substantial evidence, that respondent's exclusive contracts unreasonably restrain competition and
tend to monopoly, and that their use was an "unfair method of
competition" in violation of § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission
Act. It issued an order prohibiting respondent from entering into
any such exclusive contract for more than a year or from continuing in effect any exclusive provision of an existing -contract
longer than'a year after service of the order. Held: The order
is sustained. Pp. 393-397.
(a) The Commission did not exceed the limits of its allowable
judgment in restricting the exclusive contracts to one-year terms.
Pp. 395-396.
2. A plea of res judicata to the present proceeding of the Commission, based on a former proceeding which was directed at a conspiracy between respondent and other distributors involving the
use of exclusive agreements, cannot be sustained, since the present
proceeding charges no conspiracy and the issues litigated and determined are not the same as those in the earlier one. Pp. 397-398.
194 F. 2d 633, reversed.

In a proceeding upon a complaint charging "unfair
methods of competition" in violation of § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Commission entered a
cease and desist order against respondent. 47 F. T. C.
378. The Court of Appeals reversed. 194 F. 2d 633.
This Court granted certiorari. 344 U. S. 11. Reversed,
p. 398.

F. T. C. v. MOTION PICTURE ADV. CO.
392

393

Opinion of the Court.

James L. Morrisson argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General
Stern, Acting Assistant Attorney General Clapp, Charles
H. Weston and W. T. Kelley.
Louis L. Rosen argued the cause'for respondent. With
him on the brief were Charles Rosen and William B.
Cozad.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondent is a producer and distributor of advertising
motion pictures which depict and describe commodities
offered for sale by commercial establishments. Respondent contracts with theatre owners for the display of these
advertising films and ships the films from its place of
business in Louisiana to theatres in twenty-seven states
and the District of Columbia. These contracts run for
terms up to five years, the majority being for one or two
years. A substantial number of them contain a provision that the theatre owner will display only advertising films furnished by respondent, with the exception of
films for charities or for governmental organizations, or
announcements of coming attractions. Respondent and
three other companies in the same business (against
which proceedings were also brought) together had exclusive arrangements for advertising films with approximately three-fourths of the total number of theatres in
the United States which display advertising films for
compensation. Respondent had exclusive contracts with
almost 40 percent of the theatres in the area where it
operates.
The Federal Trade Commission, the petitioner, filed a
complaint charging respondent with the use of "unfair
methods of competition" in violation of § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 717, 719, 52 Stat.

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

111, 15 U. S. C: § 45. The Commission found that respondent was in substantial competition with other companies engaged in the business of distributing advertising
films, that its exclusive contracts have limited the outlets
for films of competitors and have forced some competitors
out of business because of their inability to obtain outlets
for their advertising films. It held by a divided vote
that the exclusive contracts are unduly restrictive of competition when they extend for periods in excess of one
year. It accordingly entered a cease and desist order
which prohibits respondent from entering into any such
contract that grants an exclusive privilege for more than
a year or from continuing in effect any exclusive provision
of an existing contract longer than a year after the date of
service in the Commission's order.' 47 F. T. C. 378. The
Court of Appeals reversed, holding that the exclusive contracts are not unfair methods of competition and that
their prohibition would not be in the public interest. 194
F. 2d 633.
The "unfair methods of competition," which are condemned by § 5 (a) of the Act, are not confined to those
that were illegal at common law or that were condemned
by the Sherman Act. Federal Trade Commission v. Keppel & Bro., 291 U. S. 304. Congress advisedly left the
concept flexible to be defined with particularity by the
myriad of cases from the field of business. Id., pp..310312. It is also clear that the Federal Trade Commission
Act was designed to supplement and bolster the Sherman
Act and the Clayton Act (see Federal Trade Commission
v. Beech-Nut Co., 257 U. S. 441, 453)-to stop in their
incipiency acts and practices which, when full blown,
Comparable findings and like orders were entered in each of the
three companion cases. In the Matter of Reid.H. Ray Film Industries, 47 F. T. C. 326; In the Matter of Alexander Film Co., 47
F. T. C. 345; In the Matter of United Film Ad Service, Inc., 47
F. T. C. 362.

F. T. C. v. MOTION PICTURE ADV. CO.
392

395

Opinion of the Court.

would violate those Acts (see Fashion Guild v. Federal
Trade Commission, 312 U. S. 457, 463, 466), as well as
to condemn as "unfair methods of competition" existing
violations of them. See Federal Trade Commission v.
Cement Institute, 333 U. S. 683, 691.
The Commission found in the present case that respondent's exclusive contracts unreasonably restrain
competition and tend to monopoly. Those findings are
supported by substantial evidence. This is not a situation where by the nature of the market there is room for
newcomers, irrespective of the existing restrictive practices. The number of outlets for the films is quite limited. And due to the exclusive contracts, respondent and
the three other major companies have foreclosed to competitors 75 percent of all available outlets for this business
throughout the United States. It is, we think, plain from
the Commission's findings that a device which has sewed
up a market so tightly for the benefit of a few falls within
the prohibitions of the Sherman Act and is therefore an
"unfair method of competition" within the meaning of
§ 5 (a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act.
An attack is made on that part of the order which restricts the exclusive contracts to, one-year terms. It is
argued that one-year contracts will not be practicable.
It is said that the expenses of securing these screening
contracts do not warrant one-year agreements, that investment of capital in the business would not be justified
without assurance of a market for more than one year,
that theatres frequently demand guarantees for more than
a year or otherwise refuse to exhibit advertising films.
These and other business requirements are the basis of
the argument that exclusive contracts of a duration in
excess of a year are necessary for the conduct of the business of the distributors. The Commission considered
this argument and concluded that, although the exclusive
contracts were beneficial to the distributor and preferred

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

344 U. S.

by the theatre owners, their use should be restricted in
the public interest. The Commission found that the
term of one year had become a standard practice and that
the continuance of exclusive contracts so limited would
not be an undue restraint upon competition, in view of
the compelling business reasons for some exclusive arrangement. 2 The precise impact of a particular practice
on the trade is for the Commission, not the courts, to determine. The point where a method of competition becomes "unfair" within the meaning of the Act will often
turn on the exigencies of a particular situation, trade practices, or the practical requiremients of the business in
question. Certainly we cannot say that exclusive contracts in this field should have been banned in their
entirety or not at all, that the Commission exceeded the
limits of its allowable judgment (see Siegel Co. v. Federal
Trade Commission, 327 U. S. 608, 612; Federal Trade
Commission v. Cement Institute, 333 U. S. 683, 726-727)
in limiting their term to one year.2 The Commission, said: "Under the general practice the representative of the respondent first contacts the theater to determine
if space is available for screen advertising and makes such arrangements as conditions warrant with respect to such space. In this
way respondent's representative is able to show prospective advertisers where space is available. In contacting the theater it is necessary for the respondent to estimate the amount of space it will be
able to sell to advertisers. Since film advertising space in theaters is
limited to four, five, or six advertisements, it is not unreasonable for
respondent to contract for all space available in such theaters, particularly in territories canvassed by its salesmen at regular and
frequent intervals.
"It is therefore the conclusion of" the Commission in the circumstances here that an exclusive screening agreement for a period of 1
year is not an undue restraint upon competition." 47 F. T. C., at
389.
3A suggestion is made that respondent needs a period longer than
one year in view of the fact that the contracts with advertisers are
often not coterminous with the exclusive screening agreements, due

F. T. C. v. MOTION PICTURE ADV. CO.
392

397

Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Appeals held that the contracts between
respondent and the theatres were contracts of agency and

therefore governed by Federal Trade Commission v. Curtis PublishingCo., 260 U. S. 568. This Wyas on the theory
that respondent furnishes the films by bailment to the

exhibitors in exchange for a contract for personal services which the exhibitors undertake to perform. But the
Curtis case would be relevant here only if § 3 of the Clayton Act 4 were involved. The vice of the exclusive contract in this particular field is in its tendency to restrain
competition and to develop a monopoly in violation of
the Sherman Act. And when the Sherman Act is involved the crucial fact is the impact of the particular
practice on competition, not the label that it carries. See
United States v. Masonite Corp., 316 U. S. 265, 280.
Finally, respondent urges that the sole issue raised in
the Commission's complaint had been adjudicated in a
former proceeding instituted by the Commission which
resulted in a cease and desist order. 36 F. T. C. 957.
in large part to the delays in obtaining advertising contracts after
the exclusive screening agreements have been executed. The Commission rejected this contention, stating that by custom and by the
terms of the exclusive contracts the theatre completes the screening
of advertisements as required by the advertising contracts, even
though those contracts extend beyond the expiration date of the
exclusive screening agreement. We have concluded that the order
which the Commission entered in this case is consistent with that
construction. It does not prevent the completion of any particular
advertising contract after the expiration of the exclusive screening
agreement. The order merely prevents respondent from requiring
the theatre owner to'show only its films after that date. It does not
prevent the theatre owner from making an otherwise exclusive agreement with another distributor at that time. No theatre owner is
a party to this proceeding. The cease and desist order binds only
respondent.
SThis section makes unlawful a lease, sale, or'contract for sale
which substantially lessens competition or tends to create a monopoly.
15 U. S. C. § 14.

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

344 U. S.

But that was a proceeding to put an end to a conspiracy
between respondent and other distributors involving the
use.of these exclusive agreements. The present proceeding charges no conspiracy; it is directed against individual
acts of respondent. The, plea of res judicata is therefore
not available since the issues litigated and determined
in the present case are not the same as those in the earlier
one. Cf. Tait v. Western Maryland R. Co., 289 U. S.
620, 623.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, whom MR. JUSTICE BURTON joins, dissenting.
My doubts that the Commission has adequately shown
that it has been guided by relevant criteria in dealing
with its findings under § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act are dispelled neither by those findings nor by
the opinion of the Court. The Commission has not explained its conclusion with the "simplicity and clearness"
necessary to tell us "what a decision means before the
duty becomes ours to say whether it is right or wrong."
United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 294
U. S. 499, 510, 511.
My primary concern is that the Commission has not
related its analysis of this industry to the standards of
illegality in § 5 with sufficient clarity to enable this Court
to review the order. Although we are told that respondent and three other companies have exclusive exhibition
contracts with three-quarters of the theaters in the
country that accept advertising, there are no findings indicating how many of these contracts extend beyond the
one-year period which the Commission finds not unduly
restrictive. We do have an indication from the record
that more than half of respondent's exclusive contracts
run for only one year; if that is so, that part of respondent's hold on the market found unreasonable by the

F. T. C. v.,MOTION PICTURE ADV. CO.
392

FRANKFURTER,

399

J., dissenting.

Commission boils down to exclusion of other competitors
from something like 1,250 theaters, or about 6%, of the
some 20,000 theaters in the country. The hold is on
about 10% of the theaters that accept advertising.
Apart from uncritical citations in the brief here,1 the
Commission merely states a dogmatic conclusion that
the use of these contracts constitutes an "unreasonable
restraint and restriction of competition." In re Motion
Picture Advertising Service Co., 47 F. T. C. 378, 389.
The Court's opinion is merely an echo of this conclusion
and states without discussion that such exclusion from
a market without more "falls within the prohibitions of
the Sherman Act" because, taken with exclusive contracts of other competitors, 75% of the market is shut
off. But there is no reliance here on conspiracy or concerted action to foreclose the market, a charge that would
of course warrant action under the Sherman Law. Indeed, we must assume that respondent and the other
three companies are complying with an earlier order of
the Commission directed at concerted action. See In re
Screen Broadcast Corp., 36 F. T. C. 957. While the
existence of the other exclusive contracts is, of course,
1 The decisions of this Court relied on do not dispose of this
case. In International Salt Co. v. United States, 332 U. S. 392, we
dealt with the largest producer of salt for industrial purposes, who
by means of tying agreements rather than exclusive contracts, attempted an undue extension, of his patent monopoly. Apart from
these differences, it deserves to be noted that salt sales in one year
amounted to $500,000 by the patentee. To the extent that that
decision is predicated on a Sherman Law violation, it seems inapplicable here. In United States v. Yellow Cab Co., 332 U. S. 218,
apart from other differences, conspiracy was charged to shut off a
substantial share of the market permanently by means of vertical
integration. United States v. Pullman Co., 50 F. Supp. 123, in
which many other factors were present and the share of the market
considerable, was affirmed by an equally divided Court. 330 U. S.
806.

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

344 U. S.

not irrelevant in a market analysis, see Standard Oil Co.
v. United States, 337 U. S. 293, 309, this Court has never
decided that they may, in the absence of conspiracy, be
aggregated to support a charge of Sherman Law violation. Cf. id., at 314. 'Ifother factors pertinent to a
Sherman Law violation were present here, the Commission could not leave such factors unmentioned and simply
ask us to review a broad unexplained finding that there
is such a violation.2 In any event, the Co, mission has
not found any Sherman Law violation.
But we are told, as is of course true, that § 5 of the
Federal Trade Commission Act comprehends more than
violations of the Sherman Law. The Federal Trade
Commission Act was designed, doubtless, to enable the
2

The strongest finding of the Commission, par. 11, Findings as to
the Facts, 47 F. T. C., at 387, states that these contracts have been
"of material assistance in permitting the respondent to hold for its
own use the screens of the theaters with which such contracts were
made and has deprived competitors of the respondent from showing
their advertising films in such theaters thereby limiting the outlets
for their films in a more or less limited field and in some instances
resulted in such competitors being forced to go out of the screen
advertising business because of inability to obtain outlets for their
screen advertising." Most contracts have the practical effect of
excluding those who are not parties, and failure to obtain business
is of course a cause of business failure. If all contracts are not to
be bad on such reasoning, it seems there must be more, particularly
in view of indications here not adverted to by the Commission in
its formal findings that what little business failure there has been
among competitors may to some extent have resulted from the inferior quality of those competitors' films. See Trial Examiner's Report Upon the Evidence, R. 44. In any event, such a finding does not
establish a Sherman Law violation. In Sherman Law proceedings,
we would have issues sharply defined in Sherman Law terms and
findings from relevant evidence specifically directed to those terms
made by the District Judge. Findings adverse to a claim of violation
of the Sherman Law would have the weight given by Rule 52 (a) of
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Cf. United States v. Oregon
Med. Soc., 343 U. S.326, 332.

F. T. C. v. JMOTION PICTURE ADV. CO.
392

FRANKFURTER,

401

J., dissenting.

Commission to nip in the bud practices which, when
full blown, would violate the Sherman or Clayton Act.

But this record does not explain to us how these practices,
if full blown, would violate one of those Acts. The Commission has been content to rest on its conclusion that
respondent's exclusive contracts unreasonably restrain
competition and tend to monopoly. If judicial review
is to have a basis for functioning, the Commission must
do more than pronounce a conclusion by way of fiat
and without explication. This is not a tribunal for investigating an industry. Analysis of practices in the
light of definable standards of illegality is for the Commission. It is for us to determine whether the Commission has correctly applied the proper standards and
thus exhibited that familiarity with competitive problems which the Congress anticipated the Commission
would achieve from its experience. Cf. Federal Trade
Commission v. Cement Institute, 333 U. S. 683, 727.
No case is called to our attention which, because of
factual similarity, would serve as a shorthand elucidation of the Commission's conclusion. The Standard Oil
case, supra, relied on in the Commission's brief, does
not serve this purpose. Although the Standard Oil case,
was brought under § 3 of the Clayton Act, I shall assume
that it could have been brought under § 5 of the Federal
Trade Commission Act, so that respondent cannot argue
the inapplicability of the decision merely because the
language of § 3 may be inapplicable. But taking that
case simply as an expression of "policy" underlying § 5,
it is not sufficient to support the holding in this case. In
the Standard Oil case, we dealt with the largest seller
of gasoline in its market; Standard had entered into exclusive supply contracts with 16% of the retail outlets
in the area purchasing over $57,000,000 worth of gasoline. It may be that considerations undisclosed could
be advanced to indicate that the percentage of the market

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

344 U.S.

shut off here, calculated by a juggling of imponderables
that we certainly would not confidently weigh without
expert guidance, ought not to be considered significantly
different from that in the Standard Oil case, or perhaps
more important in the light of that decision, see 337 U. S.,
at 314, that the aggregate volume of business is of as
great significance to the public as it was there. Even
so, there are apparent differences whose effects we would
need to have explained.
The obvious bargaining power of the seller vis-a-vis
the retailer does not, so far as we are advised, have a
parallel here. Nor are we apprised by proof or analysis
to disregard the fact that here the advertising, unlike
sales of gasoline by the retailer in the Standard Oil case,
is not the central business of the theaters and apparently
accounts for only a small part of the theaters' revenues.'
In any event, in the Standard Oil case we recognized the
discrepancy in bargaining power and pointed out that
the retailers might still insist on exclusive contracts if
they wanted. See 337 U. S., at 314. And although we
are not told in this case whether the pressure for exclusive
contracts comes mainly from the distributor or the theater, there are indications that theaters often insist on
exclusive provisions. See Findings as to the Facts No.
12, In re Motion Picture Advertising Service Co., supra,
at 388.
Further, the findings of the Commission indicate that
there are some factual differences in the "exclusive" pro3 It may well be that this factor will turn out to be of little
significance. In an entirely different context, we recognized that
such a factor need not be decisive in an attempt to assess the competitive effects, as among purchasers, of discriminatory pricing. See
Federal Trade Commission v. Morton Salt Co., 334 U. S. 37, 49-50.
Since here, however, the factor probably bears more on the relative
bargaining power of theaters and distributors than on competitive
effects among the theaters, different considerations may operate.

F. T. C. v..MOTION PICTURE ADV. CO. 403
392

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

visions here, for in this industry, as may not have been
feasible in gasoline retailing, distributors of films often
do have access to the theaters having nominally exclusive
contracts with competing distributors. At times the exclusive provision may do little more than give the distributor a priority over other distributors in the use of
screen space. Indeed, the degree of exclusion of competitors in some instances is represented simply by the
inadequacy of a 15% commission paid the "excluded"
competitor when he is permitted to show his films in theaters nominally exclusive. The Commission found the
15% unprofitable in local advertising, but it did not find
how much of the affected competitors' total business,
which may also have included manufacturer-dealer or
cooperative advertising and national advertising, was in
effect excluded because of the unprofitability of the commission in local advertising. In short, we are not told
that the exclusive feature here should be considered the
economic equivalent of that in the Standard Oil case.
Although the facts of this case do not meet the Standard Oil decision, even if that case is-taken merely as an
expression of antitrust policy engrafted on § 5, it is urged
that the Commission should be allowed ample discretion
in developing the law of unfair methods of competition
to meet the exigencies of a particular situation without
undue hampering by the Court. But if judicial review
is to have any meaning, extension of principle to meet
new situations must be based on some minimum demonstration to the courts that the Commission has relied on
relevant criteria to conclude that the new application is
in the public interest. In this case, apart from equivocal
statements in the Trial Examiner's report on the evidence as to the interests affected by exclusion from this
market, we have no specific indication of the need for
enforcement in this area, cf. Federal Trade Commission
v. Keppel & Bro., 291 U. S. 304, 314, even if the Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

344 U. S.

mission had afforded reasons why the law of unfair methods of competition should strike down exclusive contracts such as those here involved. At the least, we
should remand this case to the Commission for adequate explanation of the reasons why the public interest
requires its intervention and this order.' Cf. Federal
Trade Commission v. Klesner, 280 U. S. 19.
It is of great importance to bear in mind that the determination of the scope of the prohibition of "unfair
methods of competition" has not been left to the administrative agency as part of its fact-finding authority
but is a matter of law to be defined by the courts. See
Federal Trade Commission v. Gratz, 253 U. S. 421, 427.
The significance of such judicial review may be indicated
by the dissimilar treatment of comparable standards entrusted to the enforcement of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. In dealing with the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act requiring reasonableness in rates
and practices from carriers subject to the control of the
Commerce Commission, we read the Act as making the
application of standards of reasonableness a determination of fact by that Commission and not an issue of
law for the courts. Unlike the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Interstate Commerce Act dealt with governmental regulation not only of a limited sector
of the economy but of economic enterprises that had
long been singled out for public control. The range
within which the broadly stated concepts of reasonableSince I take this view of the case, I need not attempt to determine whether the issues in this case have already been adjudicated
in favor of the respondent. Without consideration of the record in
the former proceedings, I cannot say whether the issues, raised as
they apparently were in the pleadings before the Commission, were
decided so as to preclude a second trial of those issues. Circumstances now undisclosed may justify the Commission's exercise of its
flexible powers.

F. T. C. v..MOTION PICTURE ADV. CO. 405
392

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

ness moved was confined as well as defined by experience, and application of the concepts was necessarily
limited to easily comparable economic activity. On the
other hand, the Federal Trade Commission Act gave an
administrative agency authority over economic controls
of a different sort that began with the Sherman Lawrestrictions upon the whole domain of economic enterprise engaged in interstate commerce. -The contdnt of
the prohibition of "unfair methods of competition," to
be applied to v~idely diverse business practices, was not
entrusted to the Commission for ad hoc determination
within the interstices of individualized records but was
left for ascertainment by this Court.
The vagueness of the Sherman Law was saved by imparting to it the gloss of history. See Nash v. United
States, 229 U. S. 373. Difficulties with this inherent uncertainty in the Sherman Law led to the particularizations expressed in the Clayton Act. 38 Stat. 730. The
creation of the Federal Trade Commission, 38 Stat. 717,
made available a continuous administrative process by
which fruition of Sherman Law violations could be
aborted. But it is another thing to suggest that any-.
thing in business activity that may, if unchecked, offend
the particularizations of the Clayton Act may now be
reached by the Federal Trade Commission Act. The
curb on the Commission's power, as expressed by the
series of cases beginning with the Gratz case, supra, so as
to leave to the courts rather than the Commission the
final authority in determining what is an unfair method
of competition, would be relaxed, and unbridled intervention into business practices encouraged.
I am not unaware that the policies directed at maintaining effective competition, as expressed in the Sherman Law, the Clayton Act, as amended by the RobinsonPatman Act, and the Federal Trade Commission Act,
.are difficult to formulate and not altogether harmonious.

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

344 U. S.

Therefore, the interpretation of the Acts by the agency
which is constantly engaged in construing them should
carry considerable weight with courts even in the solution
of the legal puzzles these statutes raise. But he is no
friend of administrative law who thinks that the Commission should be left at large. In any event, whatever
problems would be raised by withholding judicial review
from determinations of the Commission are for Congress
to face, at least in the first instance. (See my views expressed in Stark v. Wickard, 321 U. S. 288, 311.) Until
Congress chooses to do so, we cannot shirk our duty by
leavirig determinations of law to the discretion of the
Federal Trade Commission. Not only must we abstain
from approving a mere say-so of the Commission and
thus fail to discharge the task implied by judicial review.
It is also incumbent upon us to seek to rationalize the
four statutes directed toward a common end and make
of them, to the extent that what Congress has written
permits, a harmonious body of law. This opinion is an
attempt, at least by way of adumbration, to carry out
this aim.
I would have the Court of Appeals remand this case
to the Commission.

