OCTOBER TERM, 1964.
May 24, 1965.

381 U. S.

COLUMBIA ARTISTS MANAGEMENT INC. ET AL.
v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 775.

Decided May 24, 1965.

Affirmed.

Seymour D. Lewis and Ralph F. Colin for appellants.
Solicitor General Cox, Assistant Attorney General
Orrick, Lionel Kestenbaum and Elliott H. Moyer for the
United States, and Theodore R. Kupferman for appellee
Summy-Birchard, Inc.
PER CURIAM.

The motion to affirm is granted and the judgment is
affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE. HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE STEWART,
MR. JUSTICE GOLDBERG, dissenting.

and

An examination of the proceedings in this case convinces us that a summary disposition of this matter is not
appropriate.
In 1955 the Government brought an antitrust action
against appellant Columbia, appellant Community Concerts, Inc. (Columbia's wholly owned subsidiary), and
two corporations whose successor is appellee SummyBirchard, Inc.* Columbia and Summy-Birchard manage
professional concert artists, and their affiliates, Community and the Civic Concert Service division of SummyBirchard, are "concert services," organizing and maintain*Summy-Birchard is successor to both the National Concert and
Artists Corp. and its wholly owned subsidiary, Civic Concert Services,
Inc.

DECISIONS PER CURIAM.
381 U. S.

May 24, 1965.

ing local nonprofit "audience associations" throughout the
country which sponsor concert series. Normally an audience association pays an artist an established fee set by
the artist and his manager, out of whioh the artist's manager retains a share and the concert service also retains a
share known as the "margin." The Government's complaint charged a conspiracy to monopolize the business of
managing and booking concert artists and the business of
forming and maintaining audience associations.
On October 20, 1955, a consent decree was entered by
the District Court for the Southern District of New York,
the terms of which provide that the managing companies
must make their artists available to all concert services
at the same rate and that the concert services must make
performers available to audience associations without reference to the management of the artists. Paragraph
VI (D) of the decree requires that each defendant make
available "to any financially responsible concert service
any artist managed by such defendant and reasonably
available for the desired performance, at the same margin
allowed to the defendant or its affiliate concert service by
that 'artist for a performance for the same fee."
Columbia's standard contract with concert services contains a provision, which Columbia argues is required by a
collective bargaining agreement among managers and the
concert artists' union, prohibiting a concert service from
booking an engagement at lcss than the artist's established.
fee without the consent of the artist. After SummyBirchard protested against signing contracts containing
this provision on the ground that it constituted illegal resale price maintenance, Columbia petitioned the District
Court on July 18, 1963, for a construction of the 1955
consent decree, alleging in part that the decree specifically sanctioned this contract provision and thus insulated
it from attack by a party to the decree. The Government and Summy-Birchard were joined as parties. The
773-305 0-65-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1964.
May 24, 1965.

381 U. S.

District Court held that this contract provision prevented
competition among concert services, for it required all of
them to be paid the same "margin" for each artist, and
concluded that such a provision was illegal. After reargument, the District Court reaffirmed its prior opinion
and stated in its final order:
"The provision in Columbia's contract ...that each
engagement before an audience association shall be
performed at the artist's established fee constitutes
illegal resale price maintenance and is a per se violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act (15 U. S. C.
ยง 1). To the extent that the Final Judgment operates to allow Columbia to set such resale prices, it
is illegal and void as contrary to the Sherman Act,
and any continued reliance by Columbia upon such
portion or portions of the Final Judgment will not be
construed by the Court to be in any way valid."
Columbia appeals from this judgment claiming that it
constitutes a modification of the 1955 consent decree and
that the District Court is without power to modify the
decree without Columbia's agreement.
I.
In our view' there is substance to Columbia's contention that the District Court modified the 1955 consent
decree. As we read the District Court's opinion, that
court held that the 1955 decree affirmatively sanctioned
the use of the contract provision, and then went on to
modify the decree, invalidating that portion of the decree
which permitted Columbia to include the provision at
issue in its contracts. The District Judge stated in his
original opinion:
"The scheme of the concert service business conducted by Community and the Civic division of
Summy-Birchard which is embodied in the decree

DECISIONS PER CURIAM.
381 U.S.

May 24, 1965.

clearly envisions that the artist or his manager will
be able to control the ultimate price paid by the 'consumer'-audience association, impresario, or whoever assumes the risk of 'producing' a show. Were
this not so, the definition of 'margin' in the decree
would be meaningless.. Since this court by its decree-albeit a consent order-has sanctioned pro
tanto this structuring of the industry, it should not
be slow to consider charges of illegality against the
system."
The District Judge suggested that Sumpiy-Birchard's
answer might be treated as a "petition for declaratory
judgment" or a "petition for modification." After discussing whether or not the contract provision constituted
resale price maintenance, he concluded by stating:
"Thus, insofar as the decree-imposed requirement
of margin operates to allow Columbia to set resale.
prices, the decree is illegal and void as contrary to the
letter and policy of the Sherman Act, and this court
will not construe Columbia's continued reliance upon
that portion of the decree to be in any way valid."
The District Judge characterized what he had done as
"[i]nvalidation of . . . part of the consent decree." The
District Court's opinion on rehearing states, "The opinion
of November 19 is accordingly reaffirmed," and the judgment of the District Court, set out above, states that
"[t]o the extent that the Final Judgment operates to
allow Columbia to set such resale prices, it is illegal and
void as contrary to the Sherman Act." In our view the
language of the opinion and judgment of the District
Court conclusively shows that the court modified the 1955
consent decree despite Columbia's opposition to such
modification.
We believe that the modification of a previously entered
consent decree under the circumstances present here raises

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1964.
May 24, 1965.

381 U. S.

substantial questions of law. This Court has held that
a consent decree ordinarily may not be modified without
v.
the consent of the parties involved. In United States
stated
Swift.& Co., 286 U. S. 106, 119, Mr. Justice Cardozo
for the Court: "Nothing less than a clear showing of
grievous wrong evoked by new and unforeseen conditions
should lead us to change what was decreed after years of
litigation with the consent of all concerned." See United
States v. InternationalHarvester Co., 274 U. S. 693; Ford
Motor Co. v. United States, 335 U. S. 303. While the
Court has allowed modifications in consent decrees upon
occasion, see Chrysler Corp. v. United States, 316 U. S.
556; cf. Hughes v. United States, 342 U. S. 353, a showing
of changed circumstances is usually necessary. Whether
a modification of the consent decree was proper in this
case, where no changed circumstances were claimed,
should not be determined by this* Court summarily.
Additionally, the District Court's determination that
Columbia's contract provision constitutes resale price
maintenance prohibited by the Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209,
raises substantial issues of antitrust law which we believe
also ought to be briefed and argued.
II.
Apart from what has already been said, there is another
reason why this case should not be dealt with summarily.
If the District Court's action is not viewed as a modification of the decree, but rather as a determination that the
decree neither specifically sanctioned nor prohibited
Columbia's contract provision, the court's judgment must
be viewed as a declaratory judgment that Columbia's conduct violated the Sherman Act. in that event no appeal
lies to this Court, for the Expediting Act, 32 Stat. 823, as
amended, 15 U. S. C..ยง 29, allows direct appeals to this
Court only in civil actions "wherein the United States
is complainant." If appellant is appealing from a declar-

DECISIONS PER CURIAM.
381 U.S.

May 24, 1965.

atory judgment, this case should be transferred to the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. If the Court
is holding by its action that the case is properly here
because of the fact that the 1955 action was commenced
by the Government, then the case raises substantial
questions as to the scope of the Expediting Act which
should be resolved only after plenary consideration. See
Shenandoah Valley Broadcasting, Inc. v. ASCAP, 375
U. S. 39.
We would therefore "postpone jurisdiction" and set the
case for argument.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

BAXA ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 957.

Decided May 24, 1965.

Certiorari granted, judgment vacated and case remanded.
Reported below: 340 F. 2d 259.

Melvin B. Lewis and Howard W. Minn for petitioners.
Solicitor General Cox, Acting Assistant Attorney General Vinson, Beatrice Rosenberg and Kirby W. Patterson
for the United States.
PER CURIAM.

The petition for writ of certiorari is granted. On consideration of the confession of error by the Solicitor
General and upon examination of the entire record, the
judgment is vacated and the case is remanded to the
United States District Court for the Southern District of
Illinois for a new trial.

