KANSAS SOUTHERN RY. v. KAW VALLEY DIST.
233 U. S.

75

Statement of the-Case.

would have opened effective groiud of attack even as the
record stood. We cannot discover that he has suffered
any injustice-still less that he has been subjected to an
unconstitutional wrong.
Judgment affirmed.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. KAW VALLEY DRAINAGE DISTRICT.
KANSAS. CITY TERMINAL RAILWAY. COMPANY v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

Nos. 313, 314.

Argued March 19, 20, 1914.-Decided A ril 6, 1914.

This court will read pleadings as a:leging what they fairly would convey
to an ordinarily intelligent lawyer by a -fairly exact use of English
speech. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375.
This court must takethe judgment under review as it standsand if it is
absolute and not conditional it cannot be qualified byspeculation as
to what may in fact happen.
An out and out order of a state court to remove a bridge that is a necessary part of a line of interstate commerce is an interference with
such commerce and with a matter that is under the exclusive control
of Congress.
Interstate commerce is not a matter that is left to the control of the
States until further action by Congress; nor is the freedom of that
commerce from interference by the States confined to laws only; it
'extends to interference by any ultimate organ.
A direct interference by the State with interstate commerce cannot be
justified by the police power; and so held that the destruction of, a
bridge across which an interstate railroad line necessarily passes
cannot be justified by the fact that it helps the drainage of a district.
Quwre, whether a consent by a Drainage District to the construction
of a railroad bridge is not to be regarded as alicense rather than an
abdication of the continuing powers of the District to require subsequent elevation of the bridge.
.87 Kansas, 272, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and validity,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

under the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, of
orders of the state courts of Kansas directing railroad companies to remove bridges on lines of interstate commerce,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel W. Moore, with whom Mr. Samuel W.
Sawyer and Mr. James M. Souby were on the brief, for
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Thomas A. Pollock for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases arise upon petitions for mandamus filed by
the defendant in error, the Kaw Valley Drainage District.
The allegations are that the Kansas River flows through
the District, is a navigable stream, and in 1903 overflowed
its banks, flooded a large part of Kansas City, Kansas, and
caused great loss; that the harbor lines established by the
United States and the lines for a levee along the banks
established by the plaintiff substantially coincide; that
the defendants respectively own bridges across the river
which at their present elevation cause it to overflow; and
that the plaintiff in pursuance of the power given to it
by the State has ordered the defendants respectively to
raise these bridges to specified heights and to remove
the old ones, which the defendants have refused to do. On
these petitions alternative writs issued, and thereupon the
defendants made return, each making a general denial and
setting up that its railway tracks across the bridge were
used in commerce among the States and that such commerce would be cut off and destroyed by enforcement of
the order, and claiming the protection of the Constitution,
Art. I, ยง 8, (cl. 3). They each alleged also that to raise the
bridges would require a raising of the grades of the streets
for the approaches, and that the right to raise them depended on the consent of Kansas City, which the city
refused to give; that the raising would cut in, two inter-

KANSAS SOUTHERN RY. v. KAW VALLEY DIST. 77
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

secting tracks of other roads, that this could not be done
without the consent of such roads, which they also refused;
that the raising would do permanent damage to private
property abutting on the streets that would have to be
raised, and that the plaintiff had taken no steps to compensate the owners; that the damage to the defendant
would exceed large sums :mentioned; and that the plans
for the new bridges have not been approved by the
Secretary of War. Act of March 3, 1899, c. 425, ยง 9.
30 Stat. 1121., 1151. Each defendant relies upon the
Fourteenth Amendment. The Terminal Company also
alleged a contract with the Drainage District which was
thought to preclude its present requirement, and to be
protected by the Constitution, Art. I, ยง 10. The cases
were heard on the alternative writs and the returns, and
the Supreme Court of the State issued peremptory writs
requiring the defendants to clear the channel to specified
heights. 87 Kansas, 272.
Motions to dismiss were presented at the last term but
were denied, as the record shows not only that rights under
the Constitution and laws of the United States were
specially set up and claimed, but that the questions concerning them are not of a kind to be dismissed.
The Supreme Court recognized that it could not order
the bridges to be raised to the required height without the
authority of the Secretary of War. Therefore we may
lay on one side the somewhat surprising answer made to
the allegations that the consent of the city and other
railroads was necessary and was refused-the suggestion,
namely, that if the defendants wanted to do it they
would find some way of reaching their end. See Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. Central Stock Yarks Co., 212 U. S.
132, 144. It was not suggested that the railroads had the
power to reach the result by eminent domain. See Atlantic
Coast Line R. R. Co. v. North Carolina Corporation Commission, 206 U. S. 1, 27. We lay on one side also various

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

over-refined objections to the defendants' pleadings made
in the argument here, saying only that we read them as
alleging what they fairly would convey to an ordinarily
intelligent lawyer by a fairly exact use of English speech.
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 395. But the
court went on, on the assumption that it would lead to
the elevation of the bridges and seemingly for the purpose
of accomplishing indirectly what it admitted that it
could not do directly, to make an unqualified absolute
order, as we have said, that the defendants should clear
the channel of all obstructions on their lines up to the
specified heights-in other words to remove the bridges as
they stand.
These judgments must be taken as they read upon their
face. They are not conditional orders to raise the bridge.
if the defendants can obtain the consent of parties not
before the court and of one authority at least not subject
to its control. They cannot be qualified by speculation as
to what is likely to happen in fact. They are out and out
orders to remove bridges that are a necessary part of lines
of commerce by rail among the States. But that subjectmatter is under the exclusive control of Congress and is not
one that it has left to the States until there shall be further
action on its part. The freedom from interference on the
part of the States is not confined to a simple prohibition of
laws impairing it, but extends to interference by any
ultimate organ. It was held that under the permissive
statute authorizing telegraph companies to maintain
lines on the post roads of the United States a State could
not stop the operation of the lines by an injunction for
failure to pay taxes. Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Attorney Generalof Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530. Williams
v. Talladega, 226 U. S. 404, 415, 416. It would seem that
the same principle applies to railroads under the commerce clause of the Constitution, especially if taken in
connection with the somewhat similar statute now Rev.

KANSAS SOUTHERN RY. v. KAW VALLEYDIST.
233 U. S.

79

Opinion of the Court.

Stats., ยง 5258. And so it is held. Atlantic Coast Line R. R.
Co. v. Wharton, 207 U. S. 328, 334. Mississippi R. R.
Commission v. Illinois CentralR. R. Co., 203 U. S. 335.
The decisions also show that a State cannot avoid the
operation of this rule by simply invoking the convenient

apologetics of the police power. It repeatedly has been
said or implied that a dhect interference with commerce
among the States could not be justified in this way. "The
state can do nothing which will directly burden or impede
the interstate traffic of the company, or impair the usefulness of its facilities for such traffic." Illinois Central.
R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 142, 154. Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 343, 349. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v.
Wharton, 207 U. S. 328, 334. To destroy the bridges
across which these railroad lines necessarily pass is at
least as direct an interference with such commerce as to
prohibit the importation of cattle or oleomargarine, or the
export of natural gas. Hannibal & St. Joseph R. R. Co. v.
Husen, 95 U.. S. 465. Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171
U. S. 1. West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229, 262.
Furthermore in the present case it is not pretended that
local welfare needs the removal of the defendants' bridges
at the expense of the dombiant requirements of commerce
with other States, but merely that it would be helped by
raising them. The fact that the court cannot order them
to be raised does not justify a judgment that they be
destroyed even in the avowed expectation that what it
wants but cannot command is all that will come to pass.
A strong argument was made for the plaintiffs in error
that they never had been allowed their day in court, as
matters put in issue by them, such as the necessity of the
change, were assumed against them. It was urged with
seeming justice that, granting that, as was said by the
court, the order of the Drainage District was prima facie
correct, still when that order was challenged in the pleadings, it could not be assumed to be valid at a hearing upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

the writs and returns. But we express no opinion upon
this point or upon claims under the Fourteenth Amendment, as what we have said sufficiently decides the cases.
The argument of the Terminal Company upon the contract with the Drainage District does not impress us. By
way of compromise the Terminal Company's predecessor
agreed to build a permanent bridge according to a plan,
and the Drainage District "hereby consents to the construction of said permanent bridge

.

.

and declares

that the same when constructed shall constitute a lawful
structure

. .

.

not waiving any right

.

.

to

require the construction of an additional span." This
coming from a board created to exercise police power not
unnaturally would be construed rather as. a license than
as an abdication of a continuing duty, on which we are
asked to take notice that new light had been shed by a
subsequent flood that has given rise to cases before this
court. But for the reasons that we have given the judgments must be reversed.
Judgments reversed.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY-CAROLINA DIVISION v.
BENNETT, ADMINISTRATRIX.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 796.

Argued March 2, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

Quare,whether ordinary questions of negligence are open in this court
in a case coming from the state court based on the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
An isolated phrase in the charge in a case involving the fall of an engine,
which did not amount to res ipsa loquitur, but was to the effect that
proof of a defect in the appliances that the master was bound to use
care to keep in order and which usually would be in order if due care

