OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

182

Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

construed, which were set up and claimed in the state
court.
Judgment reversed and case remanded fr further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissents.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY
COMPANY v. MOORE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 451.

Argued February 26, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

Decided on authority of the preceding case.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. S. T. Bledsoe, with whom Mr. J. R. Cottingham
and Mr. George M. Green were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.I
Mr. John B. Daish, witb whom Mr. H. H. Smith and
Mr. J. W. Beller were on the brief, for defendant in error. 1
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendants in error brought suit in the District
Court of Lincoln County, Oklahoma, against the plaintiff in error for damages, alleging that they were the
owners of a certain race horse which had been shipped by
IArgued simultaneously with Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Ry. Co.
v. Robinson; for abstracts of arguments, see ante, p. 173.

ATCHISON &c. RY. CO. v. MOORE.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

them over the railroad of the -plaintiff in error from Kansas
City, Missouri, to Lawrence, Kansas, and which had been
injured in transit. There was a verdict and judgment for
the defendants in error, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma (36 Oklahoma, 433).
It appears that the horse, for the injury to which this
suit was brought, was a part of the shipment under which
the horse in ffhe previous case of Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Robinson, just decided, ante, p. 173,
was carried as therein stated, and that the facts relating
to the shipment and cause of injury set forth in the present
case are the same as those in the Robinson Case. The
Supreme Court of Oklahoma, after noticing the fact that,
except as to the value of the animals, the extent of their
injuries and the resulting damages, the two cases were
identical in every material feature, followed the Robinson
Case.
The present case therefore is controlled by the decision
in the Robinson Case, and from what we have there said
it follows that the judgment here under review must be
reversed.
Judgment reversed and case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY

dissents.

