UNITED STATES v. BIRDSALL.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

criticism of the court's finding is in substance a repetition
of the argument that is urged against the validity 'of the
statute and what has been said upon that point is applicable.
The judgment is affirmed.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BIRDSALL.
UNITED STATES v. BRENT$.
UNITED. STATES v. VAN WERT.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.

Nos. 727, 728, 729. Submitted and argued January

8, 9, 1914.-Restored

to docket for reargument January 19, 1914.-Reargued February 25,
1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

Where the District Court holds that the acts charged do not fall within
the condemnation of the statute on which the indictment is based,
it necessarily construes that statute and this court has jurisdiction
under the Criminal Appeals Act of 1907.
Sections 39 and 117, Criminal Code, 35 Stat. 1109, defining and punishing the giving and accepting of bribes, cover every action within
the range of official duty.
It is not necessary in order to constitute an act of an officer of the
United States official action that it be prescribed by statute; it is
sufficient if it is governed by a lawful requirement, whether written
or established by custom, of the Department under whose authority
the officer is acting.
The office of Commissioner of :Indian Affairs was established to create
an administrative agency with adequate powers to execute the
policy of the Government towards the Indians, and one of the important duties of the Indian Office is the enforcement of liquor
prohibition.
The action of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs in advising the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

233 U. S.

President of the United States whether or not clemency should be
granted to one convicted of violating liquor laws in the Indian
country is official action, and it is within the competency of the
office to establish regulations requiring from all persons connected
with the office true and disinterested reports to the Commissioner
on which to base such advice.
The powers of the Indian Office to aid in suppressing the liquor traffic
in Indian country extend. to every matter to which such aid is
appropriate; and the giving of recommendations to a Federal judge
or attorney as to sentences of those convicted of violating the liquor
laws is an official duty within the meaning of §§ 39 and 117, Criminal
Code, and the giving of gifts to, and acceptance thereof by, officers in
that department to influence their reports and recommendations
constitute bribery under, and are punishable by, such sections.
206 Fed. Rep. 818, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of indictments
under §§ 39 and 117, Criminal Code, for giving and accepting bribes, are stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General, Mr. Assistant Attorney General

Denison and Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for
the United States, submitted:
The Commissioner may get facts and recommendations

through subordinates. He may prescribe duties by regulation under §§ 161, 463, Rev. Stat.
There is no identity between a question to be decided

by the judge and action by special officer.
That an executive officer advises a judicial officer or vice
versa does not rob the primary decision or action of its
official character.
A recommendation is action within the meaning of the
statute.

The definition of bribery is as broad as the duties of
officials.
There are two alternatives provided for by the act. If
the words "may at any time" reach the future then this

case is reached by the first alternative. "May be brought"

UNITED STATES v. BIRDSALL.
233 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

deals with the future. "By law" means "lawfully" Or
pursuant to law.
Section 39 read with § 117 leads to this conclusion.
The contention that every official duty must be specifically declared by act of Congress is absurd. Defendants'
interpretation leaves a large field of official action unprotected. Yee Gee v. United States, 83 Fed. Rep. 146-147;
United States v. Gibson, 47 Fed. Rep. 833; United States v.
Boyer, 85 Fed. Rep. 425; Vernon v. United States, 146 Fed.
Rep. 121; United States v. George, 228 U. S. 14, 22, cited
by defendant are not in point.
In support of the Government's contentions, see Benson
v. Henkel, 198 U. S. 1, 11; Crawford v. United States, 212
U. S. 189, 191; Elkins v. Wolfe, 44 Ill. App. 376, 380; In re
Miller's Estate, 22 Atl. Re-p. 1044; In re Naegle, 39 Fed.
Rep. 833, 860; Leonard v. Lennox, 181 Fed. Rep. 760;
Lewis Publishing Co. v. Wyman, 182 Fed. Rep. 13, 16;
Lindsley & Phelps Co. v. Mueller, 176 U. S. 126, 136-137;
People v. Markham, 30 Pac. Rep. 621; Raymond v. Wathen,
142 Indiana,-367; 41 N. E. Rep. 815, 816; Sanford v. Sanford; 28 Connecticut, 6, 20; Schroeder v. Gemeiner, 10
Nevada, 355, 361; Sharp V. United States, 138 Fed. Rep.
878; State V. Butler, 77 S. W. Rep. 572; United States v.
Bailey, 9 Pet. 251, 253-255,; United States v. McDaniel, 7
Pet. 14-15; Wentworth v. Farmington,48 N. H. 207, 210.
Mr. Charles W. Mullan,. with whom Mr. H. B. Boies
was on'the brief, for defendant in error in No. 727:
The demurrer only admits the allegations of the indictment which are well pleaded; it does not admit conclusions
of law. United States v. Ames, 99 U. S. 35, 45; Interstate
Land Co. v. Maxwell Land Co., 139 U. S. 569, 578; Commonwealth v. Trimmer, 84 Pa. St. 65.
The power conferred upon the Secretary of the Interior
to prescribe regulations for the government of his department, under § 161, Rev. 'Stat., is administrative only,
VOL. ccxxxii-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

and is confined strictly to the transaction of business
within his department. No power is conferred by any act
of Congress which authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to establish any rule or regulations which can have
any force outside of the Department of the Interior, or
which does not relate directly to the administration of the
business of the department. United States v. George,
228 U. S. 14, 20.
The power of the Secretary of the Interior to establish
any rule or regulation, the violation of which may become
the basis of a criminal charge, is not a power which can be
implied, and, unless expressly given, does not exist.
Haasv. Henkel, 216 U. S. 462, does not control this case.
If the contention of the Government is upheld, there
is no limit to the power of the head of a department of the
Government to require his subordinates or the employ6s
of his department, to interfere with the transaction of the
business of the other departments of the Government.
Interference by the -head of one department of the
Government with the business of another department was
never contemplated by Congress when § 161 was enacted,
and the language of that section confines the power of
the heads of the departments of the Government strictly
to the business within such departments.
No rule, regulation, or usage can be promulgated or
established by the Secretary of the Interior, under. which
he would have authority to advise an officer of another department of the Government, or the President of the
United States, in relation to any matter pending in another department, or before the President.
This court has no jurisdiction under the act of March 2,
1907, to review the judgment of the court below.
The decision of the District Judge was not based upon
the invalidity of any statute of the United States upon
which the indictment is founded, nor did the decision involve any construction of the statute and its validity.

UNITED STATES v. BIRDSALL.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 371, 398-399; United

States v. Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190, 195.
Any advice or suggestion, made by Van Wert, to any
superior officer, or to any judge, as to the action or decision
of such judge, in imposing sentence upon, or extending
judicial clemency to, persons found guilty of violating
the laws of the United States relating to the sale of intoxicating liquors to Indians, would simply be the suggestion or advice of a private individual and not that of an
officer of the Government. United States v. Gibson, 47
Fed. Rep. 833; In re Yee Gee, 83 Fed. Rep. 185; United
States v. Boyero, 85 Fed. Rep. 485; United States v. George,
228 U. S. 14; Vernon v. United States, 146 Fed. Rep. 121.
The cases cited by the Government do not control this
case.
No appearance or briefs filed for defendants in error in
Nos. 728 and 729.
MR.

JUSTICE

HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

Separate indictments were found against the several
defendants. There were two indictments against the
defendant Birdsall (which were consolidated) 'charging
him with having given to Brents and Van Wert, respectively, a bribe in violation of § 39 of the Criminal Code.
The indictments against Brents and Van Wert were for
accepting the bribes in violation of § 117. Demurrer to
each indictment, upon the ground that it charged no offense, was sustained by the District Court. 206 Fed. Rep.
818. The cases are brought here under the Criminal Appeals Act. March 2, 1907, c.2564,34 Stat. 1246.
In view'of the nature of the question presented, it is not
necessary to consider the indictments separately. According to the allegations, Birdsall was attorney for certain persons who, on indictment for unlawfully selling

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

liquor to Indians, had pleaded guilty and had been sentenced at the April term, 1910. Application had then been
made to the judge of the court for a redqction or suspension of the sentences and it was also stated that an effort
would be made to obtain a commutation by executive
action. Brents and Van Wert were special officers, duly
appointed by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, under
the authority of the Secretary of the Interior, for the
suppression of the liquor traffic among the Indians. It
was averred that by the regulations and established requirements of the Department of the Interior they were
charged with the duty of informing and advising the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, either directly or through
other subordinates, concerning all matters connected with
the conviction and punishment of persons violating the
laws of the United States in reference to the liquor traffic
affecting the Indians, and particularly "to inform the said
Commissioner whether or not the effective suppression of
the liquor traffic with and among Indians would be furthered or prejudiced by executive or judicial clemency in
any particular case?
After referring to the conviction and sentence of the
persons named, and to the application then made to the
judge for a r~duction or suspension of sentence, each indictment continued as follows:
"That-then and there the judge of the said court announced that he would not change or reduce or suspend
the said sentences or any part thereof, unless a recommendation to that effect was made tQ him by the said Commissioner of Indian Affairs; and the United States attorney
in the aforesaid district announced that he would not
recommend a commatation or other executive clemency
unless a recommendation to that effect was made to him
by the said Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
"That then and there, and during all the dates and
times herein mentioned, it was and long had been the

UNITED STATES v. BIRDSALL.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

settled usage and practice for the United States judges
in determining upon sentences and upon the applications
for changes, reductions, or suspensions thereof to consult
the United States attorney, and either directly or through
him the administrative officer charged with the enforcement of the laws in question, including laws for the suppression of the liquor traffic with and among the Indians,
the said Commissioner of Indian Affairs; and likewise
it had been and was the settled usage and practice of the
President, in the exercise -of his power of extending executive clemency, to consult the Attorney General; and likewise it had been and was the settled usage and practice
of the Attorney General, for the purpose of advising the
President on the said subject, to consult with the United
States attorney or other officer by whom the prosecution
had been conducted.
"That then and there, and that at all the times herein
mentioned, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, in the
performance of his official duty, as provided by the rules
and regulations and established usages and practices and
requirements of the said Department of the Interior, and
as provided by law, was charged with the duties of assisting in the enforcement of the laws of the United States
in reference to the liquor traffic affecting Indians, and
particularly with the duty, when requested so to do, of
advising and making recommendations to any judge before whom any prosecutions on the said subject may have
been tried, and the United States attorney or other officer by
whom the said prosecution had been conducted, concerning
the effect upon the enforcement of the said law, of any proposed leniency or clemeney in connection with the punishment of the persons found guilty of offenses thereunder."
The indictments against Birdsall charged him with
having given money to Brents and Van Wert with intent
to influence their official action so that they would advise
the Commissioner of Indian.Affairs, contrary to the truth,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

that upon facts officially known to them leniency should
be granted to the persons who had been convicted and
sentenced, as stated, and that in the interest of the enforcement of the laws the Commissioner should so recommend to the judge, the United States attorney, the Secretary of the Interior, the Attorney General, or the President.
The indictments against Brents and Van Wert charged
that they had received the money from Birdsall with the
intent that their official action should be thus influenced.
As the District Court held that the acts charged did
not fall within the condemnation of the statute, the court
necessarily construed the statute and the cases are properly here. United States v. Patten,226 U. S. 525, 535.
Section 117 of the Criminal Code (35 Stat. p. 1109),
with respect to the acceptance of bribes, provides that
"whoever, being an officer of the United States, or a person
acting for or on behalf of the United States, in any official
capacity, under or by virtue of the authority of any department or office of the Government thereof" accepts
money, etc., "with intent to have his decision or action
on any question, mhtter, cause, or proceeding which may
at any time be pending, or which may by law be brought
before him in his official capacity, or in his place of trust
or profit, influenced thereby" shall be punished as stated.
Section 39 (id. p. 1096), as to bribe giving, uses similar
language in defining the official relation of the recipient
and the character of the action intended to be influenced;
adding the words-" with intent to influence him to commit

.

.

.

any fraud

.

.

.

on the United States,

or to induce him to do or omit to do any act in violation
of his lawful duty."
Every action that is within the range of official duty
comes within the purview of these sections. There was
thus a legislative basis (United States v. George, 228 U. S.
14, 22) for the charge in the present cases, if the action
sought to be influenced was official action. To constitute

UNITED STATES v. BIRDSALL.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it official action, it was not necessary that it should be
prescribed by statute; it was sufficient that it was governed
by a lawful requirement of the department under whose authority the officer was acting. Rev. Stat., § 161; Benson v.
Henkel, 198 U. S. 1, 12; Haasv. Henkel, 216 U. S. 462, 480.
Nor was it necessary that the requirement should be prescribed by a written rule or regulation. It might also
be found in an established usage which constituted the
common law of the department and fixed the duties of
those engaged in its activities. UnitedStates v. Macdaniel,
7 Pet. 1, 14. In numerous instances, duties not completely
defined by written rules are clearly established by settled
practice, and action taken in the course of their performance must be regarded as within the provisions of the
above-mentioned statutes against bribery. Haas v. Henkel, supra.
We must assume, in view of the decision below, that the
indictment sufficiently charged that the action of Brents
and Van Wert, which it was sought to influence, was
action in the course of duty so far as the regulations and
usages of the department could establish that duty.
The question is whether the department had authority
to establish it. The District Court held that it had no
such power and hence that the indictments charged no
offense. The ruling was that there was "no act of Congress
conferring upon the Interior Department, or the Bureau
of Indian Affairs, any duty whatever in regard to recommending to the executive or judicial departments of the
-Government whether or not executive or judicial clemency
shall be extended to, or withheld from, any person who
may be charged with, or convicted of, selling intoxicating
liquors to Indians, or of any other offense against the
United States." 206 Fed. Rep. 818, 821.
The Commissioner of Indian Affairs, "under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, and agreeably
to such regulations as the President may prescribe," is

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court,

233 U. S.

charged with "the management of all Indian affairs, and
of all matters arising out of Indian relations" (Rev. Stat.,
§ 463). The object of the establishment of the office was to
create an administrative agency with broad powers adequate to the execution of the policy of the Government, as
determined by the acts of Congress, with respect to the Indians under its guardianship. From an early day, Congress
has prohibited the liquor traffic among the Indians, and it
has been one of the important duties of the Indian Office
to aid in the enforcement of this legislation. See act of
June 30, 1834, c. 161, § 20, 4 Stat. 729, 732; Rev. Stat.,
§§ 2139, 2140, 2141; act of July 23, 1892, c. 234, 27 Stat.
260; act of January 30, 1897, c. 109, 29 Stat. 506. It has
furnished such aid by the detection of violations, by the collection of evidence, and by appropriate steps to secure the
conviction and punishment of offenders. The regulations,
of the office, adopted under statutory authority (Rev. Stat.,
§§ 465, 2058), have been explicit as to the duties of Indian
agents in this respect.'.

In recent years, Congress has

1 These regulations are as follows:

"574. Having therefore the power to break up to a great extent this
demoralizing traffic," (the liquor traffic) "agents are expected to use
the utmost vigilance in enforcing the penalties of the law against all
persons who engage in it with the Indians under their charge, whether
this is done on or off the reservation.
"575. When persons are detected in a violation of the law their
cases should be placed in the hands of the district attorney for the district wherein the crime was committed, in order that they may be
promptly arrested, tried, and punished; and agents will co6perate with
that officer in his efforts to convict the guilty parties, furnishing him
with the requisite evidence and all the facts that they may be able to
obtain for the purpose indicated. Indians are competent witnesses in
thesg cases.
"576%It is also the duty of agents to strictly carry out the provisions of sections 2140 and 2141 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States respecting the searching for concealed liquors within their
agencies and respecting the destruction of distilleries set up or continued in Indian country." Regulations of the IndianOffice (1904).

UNITED STATES v. BIRDSALL.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

made special appropriations "to enable theCommissioner
of Indian Affairs, under the direction of the Secretary of
the Interior, to take action. to suppress the traffic of intoxicating liquors among Indians," (34 Stat. 328, 1017;
35 Stat. 72, 782.; 36 Stat. 271, 1059; 37 Stat. 519) and an
organization of special officers and deputies, serving in
various states, has been created in the department.
Through these efforts numerous convictions have been
obtained. The results have been reported to Congress
annually by the Commissioner I and the appropriations
2
for the continuance of the service have been increased.

H. Doc. Vol. 27, 60th Cong. 1st Sess. pp. 26-31; H. Doc. Vol. 43,
60th Cong. 2d Sess. pp. 34-40; H. Doc.' Vol. 44, 61st Cong. 2d Sess.
pp. 12-15; H. Doc. Vol. 32, 61st Cong. 3d Sess. pp. 12-13; H. Doc.
Vol. 41, 62d Cong. 2d Sess. pp. 3,33.
2 The nature and extent of this authorized service of the department
are shown by the following extract from the Commissioner's report
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1912: "Until 1906 . . . enforcement of these statutes and subsequent enactments" (as to the
liquor traffic) "was left to Indian agents and superintendents and their
Indian police, assisted so far as might be by local peace officers and by
representatives of the Department of Justice.: In 1906 criminal dockets in Indian Territory became so crowded and the possibility of early
trial so remote that disregard of the statutes forbidding introduction
of intoxicants assumed large importance. To meet the emergency
Congress, in the act of June 21., 1906, appropriated $25,000 to be used
to suppress the traffic in intoxicating liquors among Indians, and in
August, 1906, a special officer was commissioned and sent to Oklahoma,
that he and his subordinates might, through detective operations,
supplement the efforts of superintendents in charge of reservations.
In the fiscal year 1909, when the appropriation had grown to $40,000,
this service.began to operate throughout all States where Indians
needed protection. In 1911 the service had grown until it had an appropriation of $70,000 and an organization including 1 chief special
officer, 1 assistant chief, 2 constables, 12 special officers, and 143 local
deputies stationed in 21 States. The increasing success of the service
appears in the fact that in 1909, 561 cases which the service secured
came to issue in court, resulting in 548 convictions, whereas in 1911,
1,202 cases came to issue, 1,168 defendants were convicted, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

This being the character of the Department's work, it
cannot be doubted that when persons who are convicted
apply for executive clemency the President is entitled to
avail himself of the recommendations of the Secretary
of the Interior and of the Commissioner. The information
obtained by the Indian Office and its advice are always at
his command. The President is entitled to know whether
in the judgment of the Secretary, or the Commissioner, the
granting of clemency will tend to promote or hinder the
efforts of the Department. The action of. these officers
in thus advising the President plainly would be official
action; but in so acting they would necessarily rely largely
upon the reports and advice of subordinates in the department who were more directly acquainted with the existing
conditions, the records of offenders and the facts and circumstances of particular cases. For this reason, if for no
other, it was within the competency of the office to establish regulations, and practices having the force of regulations, that all persons employed in its work should render
to the Commissioner whenever requested true reports
and give disinterested and honest advice upon the facts
known to them-with respect to the advisability of showing
leniency to convicted violators of the law.
Nor is there any ground for the conclusion that the
President is limited to obtaining direct reports to himself
in such matters. By virtue of his relation to the Department he may require the reports to be made to the Attorney General, who by the direction of the President may be
intrusted with the duty of securing the information and
recommendations which the President should have in

order properly to pass upon applications for clemency;
and for these purposes the Department could require
but 34 defendants were acquitted by juries. In 1911 fines imposed
amounted to $80,463, or more than the appropriation for the service."
H.Doc. No. 933, 62d Cong. 3d Sess. pp. 11, 12.

UNITED STATES v. BIRDSALL.
233 U. S.

.235

Opinion of the Court.

the necessary reports from those engaged in' its
service.
Further, there can be no question that the authority of
the Department in its undertaking to suppress the forbidden traffic extended to every matter in which its aid was
appropriate. That was the clear import of the legislation
broadly .definingits powers and of the action of Congress
in supporting its work. 'Whenever it could afford assistance in the course of proceedings to secure the punishment
of offenders it was fully empowered to give it. If a judge
in fixing the sentence to be imposed upon those found
guilty, or in determining whether the sentence as imposed
should be suspended or reduced, desired to be advised
of the recommendation of the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs, in'view of his knowledge of the conditions attending the enforcement of the law, the Commissioner was not
lacking in authority 'to comply with the request. It is
not enough to say that: there is no mandatory requirement
imposing the obligation to give the recommendation. In
executing the powers of the Indian Office there is necessarily a wide range -for administrative discretion and in
determining the scope of official action regard must be had
to the authority conferred; and this, as we have seen, embraces every action which may properly constitute an
aid in the enforcement of the law.
The' Commissioner was entitled to give his recommendations to the judge or to the United States attorney upon
request and he had complete power under the direction
of the Secretary of the Interior to establish rules and usages in the Department by which he could secure correct
information and uncorrupted advice from every one of
his subordinates. None of these officers could properly
say that in reporting with respect to the effect of leniency in particular cases he was acting outside the
sphere of official conduct, and the giving and, acceptance
of bribes to influence their reports and recommendations

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

was within the statutes -under which these indictments
were laid.
The judgment of the District Court, in each case, is
reversed, and the cases are remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

DIAMOND COAL AND COKE CO. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 192. Argued January 28, 29, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.
A patent for mineral lands secured under a non-mineral-land law by
fraudulently and falsely representing them to be non-mineral, although not void or open to collateral attack, is voidable and may
be annulled in a suit by the Government against the patentee or a
purchaser with notice of the fraud.
In a suit by the Government to annul a patent, issued under a nonmineral-land law, on the ground that the patent was fraudulently
procured for lands known to be mineral, the burden of proof rests
upon the Government and must be sustained by that class of evidence
which commands respect and that amount of it whieh produces
conviction.
To justify the annulment of a patent issued under a non-mineral-land
law as wrongfully covering mineral lands, it must appear that at
the time of the proceedings in the land department resulting in the
patent the lands were known to be valuable for mineral, for no subsequent discovery of mineral can affect the patent.
In this case the evidence shows with requisite certainty that at the
time of the proceedings in the land department resulting in the patents sought to be annulled, the lands were known to be valuable for
coal and were sought for that reason.
Where an agent, at the instance and for the benefit of his principal,
fraudulently secures patents under a non-mineral-land law for lands

