OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

contract was taken. Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20;
Warburton v. White,'176 U. S. 484; Gulf & Ship Island R.
R. v. Hewes, 183 U. S.66; Freeport Water Co. v. Freeport,
180 U. S. 587; Great Southern Hotel Co. v. Jones, 193 U. S.
532, 548.
As by the application of this settled rule the! absolute
want of foundation for the asserted claim of Federal right
appears on the face of the ordinance relied upon, it follows
that there was no foundation whatever for the theory
upon which the jurisdiction of this court was invoked, and
hence it is our duty to dismiss the cause for want of jurisdiction because of the absolutely unsubstantial and frivolous character of the Federal right relied upon.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

BOWE v. SCOTT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA,
No. 360.

Argued May 6, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

Where complainants duly asserted Federal rights in opposition to
contemplated municipal action, the decision of the court below that
they had no right to prevent'such action because it was a public
wrong which private parties had no right to redress, the Federal
right asserted was denied and this court has jurisdiction to review
the judgment.
A mere assertion in a state court of a right under the Constitution of the
United States, in a petition for rehearing, affords no ground for invokinf" the jurisdiction of this court unless the court below, in dealing with
the petition, considers and passes upon the Federal ground-thdrein

relied upon.
A mere allegation in the bill in a suit to enjoin enforcement of .an
ordinance, that the latter is unconstitutional because impairing the

BOWE v. SCOTT.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

obligation of a contract between the municipality and a third person
not a party to the suit, is not such an assertion of Federal rights as
will afford a basis for jurisdiction of this court under ยง 237, Judicial
Code, to review the judgment dismissing the bill.
Where the state constitution contains a due process of law clause, an
averment that contemplated action of a municipality would deprive
complainant of his property without due process of law, without
making reference to the Constitution of the United States or asserting express rights thereunder, is referable to the state constitution
alone and affords no basis for invoking the jurisdiction of this court
under ยง 237, Judicial Code.
Writ of error to review 113 Virginia, 499, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
under ยง237, Judicial Code, and what constitutes raising

the Federal question in the state court, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Richard Evelyn Byrd and Mr. David Meade White
for plaintiffs in error..
Mr. Legh R. Page and Mr. John S. Eggleston, with whom
Mr. John P. Leary was on the brief, for defendantsin error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
To .an understanding of this case we outline the situation of the property in controversy:
Shafer owned a tract of land which came to be within
the limits of the City of Richmond, bounded on the north
by Franklin Street, on the ,outh by Park Avenue, on the
east by Shafer and on the west by Harrison Streets. He
dedicated to public use by deed in due form which was
accepted by the city, a public alley 20 feet wide, crossing
from Shafer to Harrison Street at a distance of about 150
feet' south of Franklin Street, the alley being therefore
between Franklin and Park Avenue. All the plaintiffs but

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

one owned lots fronting on the. south side of Franklin
Street running back and abutting on this alley. The exception was Bolton, whose property faced on Harrison
Street and was at the corner of that street and the alley.
Eaet of the lots fronting on Franklin Street owned by the
plaintiffs in error, that is nearer Shafer Street than were
such lots, the defendants in error, Scott and Myers, also
owned lots on the south side of Franklin Street running
back to the alley. They also owned property back of the
alley and which extended a considerable distance between
parallel lines towards Park Avenue. The City of Richmond passed an ordinance allowing Scott and Myers to
close the alley along the line of their property for a period
of thirty years upon the condition that they should not
build upon it, that the right to keep it closed should be
revocable by the city whenever it deemed best and that
the city should be held harmless for any damage which
might be incurred from closing the alley. As the result of
this ordinance the direct movement between Harrison and
Shafer Streets by means of the alley was cut off, but as
the right to close only extended along the abutting lines
of the Scott and Myers property, the alley remained open
along the space where the property of the plaintiffs in error
abutted and hence did not disturb their direct access to
Harrison Street, and also did not deprive of access to
Shafer Street as there were other alleys opening irsto the
twenty-foot alley between Harrison Street and the point
where the alley was closed by which this result could be
accomplished.
The plaintiffs in error then began this suit against the
defendants in error to enjoin the enforcement of the ordinance on the ground that as the alley in question had been
dedicated to the public by Shafer and had been accepted
by the city and treated as a public alley for many years,
the city was without power to grant the right to close it
and that doing so would wrongfully inflict damage upon

BOWE v. SCOTT.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiffs as the owners of the property abutting on
the alley for reasons which were fully stated in the bill and
which it is unnecessary here to detail.
The prayer was that the ordinance be declared null and
void and for an injunction enjoining the defendants from
closing any portion of the said public alley "so as to obstruct the free passage of your complainants and the public through the said alley." Demurrers were sustained
by the court of original jurisdiction among others upon
the ground that "conceding for the moment that the ordinance of the City of Richmond challenged in the bill is
wholly void; yet this is an attempt made by private individuals to enjoin a public nuisance where the complainants do not show that they had suffered any special or
peculiar damage." The bill was dismissed.
The Court of Appeals in affirming the case said (113
Virginia, 499, 500):
"Speaking generally, the obstruction of a public highway is a public nuisance, and the trend of authority is
that an individual cannot maintain a bill to enjoin such
nuisance unless he can show that he has suffered, or will
suffer therefrom, special and peculiar injury or damage to
himself, as distinguished from injury or damage to the
general public. Moreover, such special and peculiar injury or damage must be direct, and not purely consequential, but must be different in kind, and not merely
in degree, from that sustained by the community at
large."
And, referring to the opinion of the lower court, it was
said (p. 501):
"The learned chancellor, in a clear and conclusive opinion, shows that though the injury to the plaintiffs, as stated
in the bill, may be greater than that sustained by other
persons living more remote from the scene of the obstruction, such injury is, nevertheless, greater in degree only,
and not in kind. Therefore, under the authorities, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

bill does not state a case of such. special injury as would
entitle the plaintiffs to an injunction.
"Concurring, as we do, in the ruling of the court sustaining the demurrer to the bill, it becomes unnecessary,
and would, indeed, be improper, to express any opinion
with respect to the validity of the ordinance, or the right
of the public to redress the alleged invasion of their prerogative by prosecution, or other appropriate remedy, for
a common nuisance."
The case is here upon the assumption that we have
jurisdiction because Federal rights are involved, which
hypothesis is chaljenged by a motion to dismiss which we
at once come to consider.
The grounds of the motion are, first, that as the court
below rested its decision upon the want of right of the
plaintiff to prevent the closing of the alley because such'
closing was in any event a public wrong which under the
circumstances the complainants had no right to redress,
the case below was decided upon a state ground which
was independent of any assumed assertion of Federal right,
and there isihence no jurisdiction. We do not stop to notice the many authorities which are cited to sustain from
many different angles of vision the premise upon which the
proposition rests because we think its inapplicability to,
the case in hand is so obvious that it is unnecessary to do
so. This conclusion is evident because upon the assumption that Federal rights were asserted, the contention of
the complainants was that they had such an interest in
the property or were so peculiarly and especially damaged
that they had a right to prevent the closing of the alley
which could not be taken from them without depriving
them of their Federal rights. This being true, as it undoubtedly is, it follows that the decision of the court below
under the hypothesis stated, amounted to a denial of the
existence of the Federal rights which. were adequately
asserted. And from this it follows that the proposition

BOWE' v. SCOTT.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

now relied upon when rightly considered comes to this,
that jurisdiction to enforce and protect a Federal right
obtains in no case where such Federal right has been
denied.
Second. It is further urged that be this as it may there
is no jurisdiction because no assertion of rights under the
Constitution was made below until the petition for rehearing which was too late and the tardiness of which was
not saved by the action of the court since it simply declined to grant the rehearing without deciding the questions presented as the basis of the request-for rehearing.
As it is elementary that s mere assertion in a state court
of a right under the Constitution of the United States in a
petition for rehearing affords no ground for invoking the
jurisdiction of this court unless the court below in dealing
with the petition for rehearing considers and passes upon
the Federal ground therein relied upon, we dismiss that
subject from view and come to consider whether the record
otherwise discloses that a Federal question was so raised
below as to support our juisdiction. The contention that
it was, can alone rest upon two paragraphs in the bill as
originally filed in the trial court, the one, No. 13, to the
following effect:
"Complainants charge and aver that the said ordinance
is null and void because it is in conflict with section 10,
Article 1, of the Constitution of the'United States; that it
impairs the obligation of a contract between the said John
C. Shafer, who dedicated the land as and for a public
alley to the City of Richmond which alley was accepted
by the City of Richmond as an alley for public use."
As at best there was no averment in the bill of any contract made with the complainants or any privity between
them and Shafer, it cannot possibly be said that this averment amounted to the assertion of the existence in favor of
the complainants of a contract protected by the Constitution from impairment. As the one party to the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

tract, Shafer, was not before the .court and was not suing
either through himself or by anyone qualified to represent
him or having a legal right in his behalf to assert his contract rights, and as the other party to the contract was
the City of Richmond, one of the defendants, the entire
want of foundation for the assumption that the bill presented a case of impairment of the obligation of a contract
within' the guarantee of the Constitution of the United
States becomes obvious. Besides, we think the conclusion
cannot be escaped that when the paragraph in question is
considered in the light of the context of the bill, it is conclusively.inferable that the averment in the paragraph of
an alleged contract between Shafer and the city was-not
asserted because of the assumed presence of rights under
the Constitution in that regard, but solely as a means of
stating in another form the want of power in the city to
close the alley because as the result of the contract with
Shafer it was bound to treat it as a public alley and not
close it. And this is reinforced by the fact that no reference
to any right under the contract clause is found in the opinion of the trial court, that no suggestion by way of amendment"making clear the assertion of a Federal right found
expression in an application which was made to amend the
bill after the case had been decided, that no assertion of
such right was contained in the assignments of error for
the purpose of the review by the Court of Appeals although
the paragraph in question was referred to in the argument
filed to support the assignments as made, and for the
further reason that no intimation whatever is contained
in the opinion of the Court of Appeals that it deemed that
a question under the contract clause of the Constitution
arose for decision.
The other passage in the bill is found in subdivision "c"
of the tenth paragraph, and is as follows: "That the
ordinance is an attempt to take: from your complainants
whose property adjoins and abuts upon the said alley

McDONALD v. OREGON NAVIGATION CO.
233 U. S.

665

Syllabus.

their rights in and to said alley without due process of law."
But it is settled that such an averment making no reference to the Constitution of the United States and asserting no express rights thereunder is solely referable to
the state constitution, which in this instance has a due
process clause, and affords no basis whatever for invoking
the jurisdiction of this court. Miller v. Cornwall R. R.
Co., 168 U. S. 131, 134; Harding V. Illinois, 196 U. S.78.
As from what we have said it results that there is no
foundation whatever for the! claims of Federal right relied
upon as the basis for invoking the jurisdiction of this court
since such claims are so wholly unsubstantial and frivolous
as to be devoid of any merit, it follows that we have not
jurisdiction and the writ of error must be dismissed.
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

McDONALD v. OREGON RAILROAD AND NAVIGATION COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 463.

Motion to dismiss submitted May 4,1914.-Decided May 25,
1914.

The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not control
methods of state procedure or give jurisdiction to this court to review
mere errors of law alleged to have been committed by a state court
in the performance of its duties and within the scope of its authority
concerning matters non-Federal in character.
It is the lack of jurisdiction in the sense of fundamental'absence of any
and all right to take cognizance of the cause that amounts to deprivation of property without due process of law and gives this court
power to review the judgment of the state court under ยง 237, Judicial
Code, not the wrongful exercise of jurisdiction in the sense of duty to

