OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

134 N. W. Rep. 468. But it is to be observed that as to
that ruling the court in the Daugherty Case declared that
the statement as to the constitutionality of the statute
made in the JohnsonCase was merely obiter. Even however,
if this were not the case, we cannot now treat as existing, a
statute which the court ,of last resort of the State declares
cannot be enforced compatibly with the state constitution.
And as here there is no claim of rights acquired under contract in the light of a settled rule of state interpretation of
a state law or constitution, there is no foundation whatever for upholding assumed rights which can alone rest
upon the existence of a state statute when the state court
of last resort has held there is no valid statute to sustain
them.
Reversed.

GRAND TRUNK WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. LINDSAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 425.

Argued February 27, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

The operation and effect of the Employers' Liability Act upon the
rights of the parties is involved in an action for negligence where the
complaint alleges and the proof establishes that the employ6 was
engaged in, and the injury occurred in the course of, interstate commerce even though the act was not referred to in the pleadings or
pressed at the trial. Seaboard Air Line v. DuvaU, 225 U. S. 477.
Although ยง 3 of the Employers' Liability Act establishes a system of
comparative negligence, and diminution of damages by reason of the
employ6's contributory negligence, the proviso to that section expressly provides that contributory negligence does not operate to
diminish the recovery if the injury has been occasioned in part by
the failure of the carrier to comply with Safety Appliance Acts.

GRAND TRUNK RY.- CO. v. LINDSAY.
233 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

It does not appear that any reversible error was conmitted by the
court below concerning instructions asked and refused in regard to
testimony of a car inspector and the weight attributable thereto.
201 Fed. Rep. 836, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Employers' Liability Act of 1,908 and the validity of a judgment for personal injuries obtained thereunder, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. George W. Kretzinger, Jr., for, plaintiff in error:
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in affirming the
judgment below upon a, theory other and different from
that upon which the case was tried. The Circuit Court of
Appeals apparently conceded that upon the theory upon
which the judgment was obtained it was erroneous and
should be reversed.
Under either, the theory adopted by the trial court or
the Circuit Court of Appeals upon rehearing, the refusal
to give the instruction requested by defendant in reference to the "come-ahead" signal by plaintiff was erroneous.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in sustaining the
trial court in refusing the fifth instruction requested by
plaintiff. It also erred in refusing to sustain each and
every error assigned upon the record and urged by defendant in court.
In support of these contentions, see American R. R.
Co. v. Birch, 224 U. S. 557; Atchison &c. Ry. Co. v.
Calhoun, 21a U. S. 1; Beutler v. Railway Co., 224 U. S. 85;
Caswell v. Worth, 5 Ellis & Bl. 848; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v.
McKean, 40 Illinois, 229; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. Brown,
229 U.'S. 317; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. King, 222 U. S. 222;
Cincinnati &c. Ry. Co. v. Mealer, 50 Fed. Rep. 725;
Cooley on Torts, 99; Delk v. Railway Co., 220 U. S. 580;
Hatcher v. Insurance Co., 184 Fed. Rep. 23; Indianapolis
&c. Ry. Co. v. Blackman, 63 Illinois, 121; Louis. & Nash.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Ry. Co. v. Kelly, 63 Fed. Rep. 407; Mobile &c. Ry. Co. v.
Wilson, 176 Fed. Rep. 127; New York R. R. Co. v. Estill,
147 U. S. 592; Miner v. McNamara, 72 Atl. Rep. 138;
Norfolk Ry. Co. v. United States, 177 Fed. Rep. 630;
Schafer v. Railroad Co., 105 U. S. 249; St. Louis &c. Ry.
Co. v. Hesterly, 228 U. S. 702; San Juan Co. v. Requena,
224 U. S. 97; Schlemner v. Railway Co., 220 U. S. 590;
Thornton on Fed. Emp. Liability Act, 104; Union Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Callayhan, 56 Fed. Rep. 988; Yazoo &c. Ry. v.
Greenwood Co., 227 U. S. 1.
Mr. James C. McShane for defendant in error, submitted.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The right of the plaintiff who is defendant in error here
to recover for an alleged personal injury, was stated in
two counts. In both, the wrong was alleged to have been
occasioned by the negligence of the railway company,
while it was engaged in carrying on interstate commerce
and while the plaintiff was employed by it in such commerce. In the first count, however, the act of Congress
known as the Safety Appliance Act was expressly declared
on. For the purposes of the writ of error which was
prosecuted by the railroad company from the Circuit
Court of Appeals, numerous assignments of error were
made and were all disposed of by the court in a full opinion.
(201 Fed. Rep. 836.) In view of the complexion of the case
as here prekented we need address ourselves to only one
of such assignments and to state the facts only so far as
essential to its consideration.
The proof showed that the plaintiff was one of a crew
working a switch engine, and that in a yard near Chicago
such engine coupled with four loaded freight cars moving

GRAND TRUNK RY. CO. v. LINDSAY.,
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in interstate commerce were held in order to make a
coupling with a number of other loaded freight cars moving in interstate commerce to the end that an interstate
train bound eastward might be made up and depart.
When by impact it was attempted to make the coupling,
the cars failed to couple automatically and after several
efforts to cause them to do so, the plaintiff as switchman
walked along beside the end of the car as it approached
again the point of coupling, signaled to the engineer to
stand fast and entered between the cars for the purpose of
ascertaining and remedying if possible the cause of the
trouble. While between the cars and engaged in handling
the coupler, the cars were pushed up and he was caught
and his arm crushed. There wvas some proof tending to
show that the switchman stepped in before the moving
cars had entirely stopped and some that he gave a signal
to come-ahead as he stepped in; but there was evidence
tending to show to the contrary and to support the inference that the act of the engineer in moving up, was the
result of a signal with a lantern, for it was dark, mistakenly given by some other employ6 in the vicinity, or a
mistake of the engineer in misconceiving the movement
of a lantern in the hands of some of those who were standing around. There was evidence tending to show that the
coupler had been inspected shortly before the accident and
no defect was observed by the inspector, but it was shown
without dispute, that it was defective at the time of the
accident, and would not couple automatically because of a
bent pin.
Among the errors assigned in the court below was the
refusal of the trial court to give an instruction relating to
the action of the switchman in entering between the cars
and his supposed giving of the come-ahead signal. This
instruction, while leaving to the jury the determination of
whether the switchman in going between the cars to examine the coupling mechanism gave a come-ahead signal,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

nevertheless asked the court to instruct as a matter of
law that if -he had done so, his act was the proximate
cause of his injury, and therefore he could not rbcover.
Instead of giving this instruction the court modified it by
leaving it to the jury to determine whether under all the
circumstances the action of the switchman had been
reasonably careful. The court in its general charge on
this subject said:
"If after he started to go between the: cars he has
done something which was carelessly done or which you
can say from a preponderance of the evidence contributed approximately to the accident, then he cannot
recover.

.

.

.

If there be contributory negligence at

all, it depends not upon his assuming the risk under the
circumstances in evidence in this case but upon the care
with which he acted while in the performance of the work
which he assumed.
"You are further instructed that if you believe from the
preponderance of the evidence, that the plaintiff gave a
'come-ahead' signal to the switchman or engineer,-one or
both-and after that went between the cars and was
injured, then you have a right to consider whether the
giving of the 'come-ahead' signal by the plaintiff was
the proximate cause of the injury as distinguished from the
condition of the coupler, and if you find that under the
circumstances the 'come-ahead' signal was the proximate
cause of the injury, then your verdict must be for the
defendant.
"You are also instructed that where there is a safe and a
dangerous way of doing an act, and the servant uses a
dangerous way and is injured thereby, he is charged with
negligence on his part and may not recover."
The court below disposed of the refusal of the trial
court to charge as a matter of law that there was no right
to recover if the proof showed that the switchman had
given the 'come-ahead' signal, upon the ground that there

GRAND TRUNK RY. CO. v. LINDSAY.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was no foundation for giving it as there was no evidence
whatever tending to show that such signal was given by
the switchman. A petition for rehearing was however
granted and after a reargument, the particular objection
concerning the charge referred to, as well as other matters,
were disposed of in an additional opinion. As to the charge
referred to, the court held that a mistake had been committed in the first opinion in saying that there was not any
evidence tending to show that the switchman had given
the 'come-ahead' signal as he entered, and therefore the
ground up6n which the previous ruling had been based was
inadequate. It was nevertheless held that the ruling as
previously made was right because the request to charge
as a matter of law that the plaintiff was not entitled to
recover if it was found that he had given the 'come-ahead'
signal as he entered to examine the mechanism was incompatible with the rule of comparative negligence established by the Employers' Liability Act. On this subject
the court said, 201 Fed. Rep. p. 844:
"If, under the Employers' Liability Act, plaintiff's
negligence, contributing with defeiidant's negligence to the
production of the injury, does not defeat the cause of
action, but only lessens the damages, and if the cause of
action is established by showing that the injury resulted
'in whole or in part' from defendant's negligence, the
statute would be nullified by calling plaintiff's act the
proximate cause, and then defeating him, when he could
not be defeated by calling his act contributory negligence.
For his act was the same act, by whatever name it be
called. It is only when plaintiff's act is the sole cause-when defendant's act is no part of the causation-that
defendant is free from liability under the act."
As in the argument at bar reliance is solely placed except
in one particular, upon error which is assumed to have
arisen from the refusal of. the trial court to give the charge
previously referred to and the judgment of the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

below in approving this action of the trial court upon the
theory that it was right in view of the provisions of the
Employers' Liability Act, we come to consider this subject.
(a) In the trial court it is insisted the operation and
effect of the Employers' Liability Act upon the rights of
the parties was not involved because that act was not in
express terms referred to in the pleadings or pressed at the
trial and was hence not considered by the court in acting
upon the requested charge and therefore it is urged it was
error in the reviewing court to test the correctness of the
ruling of the trial court by the provisions of the Employers' Liability Act instead of confining the subject exclusively to the Safety Appliance Law and the rules of the
common law governing negligence. But the want of
foundation for this contention becomes apparent when it is
considered that in the complaint it was expressly alleged
and in the proof it was clearly established that the injury
complained of was suffered in the course of the operation
of interstate commerce, thus bringing the case within the
Employers' Liability Act. It is true that to avoid the
irresistible consequences arising from this situation it is
insisted in argument that as no express claim was made
under the Employers' Liability Act, therefore there was
no right in the plaintiff to avail of the benefits of its
provisions or in the court to apply them to the case before
it. But this simply amounts to saying that the Employers' Liability Act may not be applied to a situation which
is within its provisions unless in express terms the provisions of the act. be formally invoked. Aside from its
manifest unsoundness considered as an original proposition the contention is not open as it was expressly foreclosed in SeaboardAir Line Ry. Co. v. Duvall, 225 U. S. 477,
482.
(b) Coming to consider the proposition that although
the case be governed by the Employers' Liability Act error

GRAND TRUNK RY. CO. v. LINDSAY.
233 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.:

was nevertheless committed in sustaining the action of the
trial court in refusing to give the requested instruction, we
think that even if for the sake of the argument it be assumed that the proof brought the case within the principle
of comparative negligence established by the Employers' Liability Act, the correctness of the ruling of the
court below is clearly made manifest by the reasoning
given by the court for its conclusion. But having regard
to the state of the proof as to the defect in, the ,coupling
mechanism, its failure to automatically work by impact
after severail efforts to bring about that result, all of which
preceded the act of the switchman in going between the
cars, in the view most favorable to the railroad, the cae
was one of concurring negligence, that is, was one where
the injury complained of was caused both by the failure
of the railway company to comply with the Safety Appliance Act and by the contributing negligence of the
switchman in going between the cars. Under this condition of things it is manifest that the charge of the court
was greatly more favorable to. the defendant company
than was authorized by the statute for the following
reasons: Although by the third section of the Employers'
Liability Act a.recovery is not prevented in a case of
contributory negligence since the statute substitutes for
it a system of comparative negligence whereby the damages are to be diminished in the proportion which his
negligence bears to the combined negligence of himself and
the carrier, in other words, the carrier is to be exonerated
from a proportional part of the damages corresponding
to the amount of negligence attributable to the employ6
(Norfolk & Western Railway Co. v. Earnest, 229 U. S. 114,
122), nevertheless under the terms of a proviso to the section contributory negligence on the part of the employ6
does not operate even to diminish the recovery where the
injury has been occasioned in part by the failure of the
carrier to comply with the exactions of an act of Congress
VOL. ccxxxiii--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

enacted to promote the safety of employ~s. In that contingency the statute abolishes the defense of contributory
negligence not only as a bar to recovery but for all purposes. The proviso reads, act of April 22, 1908, c. 149,
ยง 3, 35 Stat. 65, 66:
"Provided, That no such employ6 who may be injured
or killed shall be held to have been guilty of contributory
negligence in any case where the violation by such common carrier of any statute enacted for the safety of
employ~s contributed to the injury or death of such
employ6."
The only other objection pressed in the argument at bar
concerns an instruction asked and refused by the trial
court with reference to the weight to be attributed to the
testimony of a car inspector who inspected the coupler in
question before the accident. The subject of this asserted
error was evidently carefully considered by the trial
court and was adversely disposed of by the court below,
both in its original and in the opinion on the rehearing.
Under these circumstances without going into detail in
view of the doctrine to be applied to cases of this character
as announced in Chicago Junction Ry. Co. v. King, 222
U. S. 222; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Brown, 229 U. S.
317, we are of the opirion that we need do no more than
say that after a careful examination of the subject we are
of the opinion that no reversible error was committed by
the court below, and its judgment is therefore affirmed.
Affirmed.

