ILL. CENT. R. R. v. BEHRENS.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
BEHRENS, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIFICATE FROM' THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 241.

Argued March 6, 1914.-Decided April 27, 1914.

When a railroad is a highway for both interstate and intrastate commerce, and the two classes of traffic are interdependent in point of
both movement and safety, Congress may, under the power committed to it by the commerce clause of the Constitution, regulate
the liability of the carrier for injuries suffered by an employ6 engaged
in general work pertaining to both classes of commerce, whether the
particular service performed at the time, isolatedly considered, is in
interstate or intrastate commerce. Employers' Liability Cases, 207
U. S. 463, distinguished..
Notwithstanding its wider powe:rs, Congress, in enacting the Federal
Employers' Liability Act of 1908, has confined the liability imposed
by that act to injuries occurring to employs when the particular
service in which they are employed at the time of injury is *apart
of interstate commerce. Pedersen v. Del., Lac. & West. R. R. Co.,
229 U. S. 146.
An employ6 of a carrier in interstate commerce by railroad who is
engaged on a switch engine in moving several cars all loaded with
intrastate freight from one point in a city to another point in the
same city is not engaged in interstate dommerce and an injury then
sustained is not within the Employers' Liability Act of 1908.
The fact that an employ6 engaged in intrastate service expects, upon
completion of that task, to engage in another which is a part of interstate commerce, is immaterial under the Employers' Liability Act
of 1908 and will not bring the action under that act.

TIE facts, which involve the construction of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act of 1908 and the determination of
whether an injured employ6 was engaged in interstate
commerce at the time of the injury, are stated in the
opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Behrens, Administrator.

233 U. S.

Mr. Blewett Lee, with whom Mr. Hunter C. Leake and
Mr. Gustave Lemle were on the brief, for the Illinois Central Railroad Company.
Mr. Armand Romain for Behrens, Administrator:
The railroad company contends that the status of the
employ6 must be fixed by the nature of the work he was
actually performing at the exact time of the accident, and
that if said work consisted only in the hauling of cars of
strictly local freight, the question certified should be
answered in the negative.
The administrator, on the other hand, contends that
the question certified must be answered in the affirmative,
because:
The general nature of the employment, and not any
specific, isolated item of work, must fix the status of an
employ6.
The actual work of hauling cars of local freight was not the
only work the employ6 Was doing, and was not the true and
full measure of his employment at the time of his injury.
Even if there had been no cars at all attached to the
engine, at the time of the injury, the mere fact that said
switch engine was destined to Chalmette, where the
switching engine and crew were to take up other cars,
either loaded or empty, belonging to various railroad companies, and take them to a point in the same State, and
there turn them over to the yardmaster, who was to deliver them to various railroad systems to be transported
to points within and without the State, rendered the fatal
trip of said engine a necessary step in the interstate
traffic of the railroad company and constituted the engine
itself an instrument of said traffic, without which such
interstate commerce could not have been carried on.
To sustain the contention of the railroad company, it
would be necessary, not only to place an extremely narrow
construction on the Employers' Liability Act, but to over-

ILL. CENT. R. RL. v. BEHRENS.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

look some of the controlling facts of the case. On the first
proposition this court has repeatedly expressed itself in
no uncertain terms, while construing this and similar statutes. On the second proposition, the lower court has found
the facts and set them forth clearly in the certificate. Under
both tests the contention of the company is untenable.
In support of contentions of defendant in error, see
Colasurdo v. Central R. R. Co., 180 Fed. Rep. 832; aff'd
192 Fed. Rep. 901; Hanley v. Southern Ry. Co., 187 U. S.
620; Ill. Cent. 1?. R. Co. v. Nelson, 203 Fed. Rep. 956;
Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 21; Lamphere v.
Railroad & Navigation Co., 196 Fed. Rep. 336; Mich.
Cent. R. R. Co. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 65; Mondou v.
Railroad Co., 223 U. S. 51; Pedersen v. Railroad Co., 229
U. S. 146; Railway v. Conley, 187 Fed. Rep. 951; Railroad
Co. v. Darr, 204 Fed. Rep. 751; Railway Co. v. Earnest,
229 U. S. 114; Railway Co. v. Seale, 229 U. S.'156; Schlemmer v. Railroad Co., 205 U. S. 10; Railway Co. v. United
States, 231 U. S. 119; Southern Railway v. United States,
-222 U. S. 27; United States v. Great Northern R. R. Co., 145
Fed. Rep. 438; United States v. Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co.,
162 Fed. Rep. 185; United States v. RailroadCo., 164 Fed.
Rep. 347; Same v. Same, 154 Fed. Rep. 516; Same v. Same,
189 Fed. Rep. 964; 1 White, Personal Injuries on Railroads,
p. 817; Zikos v. Oregon RailroadCo., 179 Fed. Rep. 893.
By leave of the court, Mr. Alfred L. Becker, Mr. Maurice C. Spratt and Mr. Lester F. Gilbert filed a brief as amici
curie in behalf of The New York Central & Hudson River
Railroad Co.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
In an action in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, against a railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

company, by a personal representative to recover for the
death of his intestate, the plaintiff prevailed, and the defendant took the case by writ of error to the Circuit Court
of Appeals. That court, desiring instruction upon a question of law arising in the case, certified the question here
under ยง 239 of the Judicial Code. The facts shown in the
certificate are these: The intestate was in the service of
the railroad company as a member of a crew attached to
a switch engine operated exclusively within the city of
New Orleans. He was the fireman, and came to his death,
while at his post of duty, through a head-on collision. The
general work of the crew consisted in moving cars from
one point to another within the city over the company's
tracks and other connecting tracks. Sometimes the cars
were loaded, at other times empty, and at still other times
some were loaded and others empty. When loaded the
freight in them was at times destined from within to without the State or vice versa, at other times was moving only
between points within the State, and at still other times
was of both classes. When the cars were empty the purpose was usually to take them where they were to be
loaded or away from where they had been unloaded. And
oftentimes, following the movement of cars, loaded or
empty, to a given point, other cars were gathered up and
taken or started elsewhere. In short, the crew handled interstate and intrastate traffic indiscriminately, frequently
moving both at once and at times turning directly from one
to the other. At the time of the collision the crew was moving several cars loaded with freight which was wholly intrastate, and upon completing that movement was to have
gathered up and taken to other points several other cars
as a step or link in their transportation to various destinations within and without the State. The question of law
upon which the Circuit Court of Appeals desires instruction is, whether upon these facts it can be, said that the
intestate at the time of his fatal injury was employed in

ILL. CENT. R. L v. BEHRENS.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

interstate commerce within the meaning of the Employers'
Liability Act.
Considering the status of the railroad as a highway for
both interstate and intrastate commerce, the interdependence of the two classes of traflic in point of movement and
safety, the practical difficulty in separating or dividing
the general work of the switching crew, and the nature
and extent of the power confided to Congress by the commerce clause of the Constitution, we entertain no doubt
that the liability of the carrier for injuries suffered by a
member of the crew in the course of its general work was
subject to regulation by Congress, whether the particular
service being performed at the time of the injury, is~latedly
considered, was in interstate or intrastate commerce.
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 221 U. S. 612, 618; Southern Railway Co. v.
United States, 222 U. S. 20, 26; Mondou v. New York, New
Haven & Hartford Railroad Co., 223 U. S. 1; Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S.
194, 213; Minnesota Rate Cas:es, 230 U. S. 352, 432. The
decision in Employers' Liabil'ity Cases, 207 U. S. 463, is
not to the contrary, for the act of June 11, 1906, c. 3073,
34 Stat. 232, there pronounced invalid, attempted to
regulate the liability of every carrier in interstate commerce, whether by railroad or otherwise, for any injury
to any employd, even though his employment had no
connection whatever with interstate commerce.
Passing from the question of power to that of its exercise, we find that the controlling provision in the act of
April 22, 1908, reads as follows: "Section. 1. That every
common carrier by railroad while engaging in commerce
between any of the several States . . . shall be
liable in damages to any person suffering injury while he
is employed by such carrier in such commerce, or, in case
of the death of such employs, to his or her personal representative, . . . for such injury or death resulting

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

in whole or in part from the negligence of any of the officers,
agents, or employ6s of such carrier, or by reason of any
defect or insufficiency, due to its negligence, in its cars,
engines, appliances, machinery, track, roadbed, works,
boats, wharves, or other equipment." Giving to the
words "suffering injury while he is employed by such
carrier in such commerce" their natural meaning, as we
think must be done, it is clear that Congress intended to
confine its action to injuries occurring when the particular service in which the employ6 is engaged is a part of
interstate commerce. The act was so construed in Pedersen v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad Co., 229
U. S. 146. It was there said (p. 150): "There can be no
doubt that a right of recovery thereunder arises only
where the injury is suffered while the carrier is engaged
in interstate commerce and while the employ6 is employed
by the carrier in such commerce." Again (p. 152): "The
true test always is: Is the work in question a part of the
interstate commerce in which the carrier is engaged?"
And a like view is shown in other cases. Mondou v. New
York, New Haven & HartfordRailroadCo., supra; Seaboard
Air Line Railway V. Moore, 228 U. S. 433; St. Louis, San
Francisco & Texas Railway Co. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156, 158;
North CarolinaRailroadCo. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, 256;
Grand Trunk Western Railway Co. v. Lindsay, ante, p. 42.
Here, at thie time of the fatal injury the intestate was
engaged in moving several cars, all loaded with intrastate freight, from one part of the city to another. That
was not a service in interstate commerce, and so. the injury and resulting death were not within the statute.
That he was expected, upon the completion of that task,
to engage in another which would have been a part of
interstate commerce is immaterial under the statute, for
by its terms the true test is the nature of the work being
done at the time of the injury.
The question is accordingly answered in the negative.

