OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

233 U. S.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. GADD.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 645. Argued April 15, 1914.-Decided May 11, 1914.

In a case in which the writ of error directed to the Circuit Court of
Appeals is based on the Employers' Liability Act, but presents for
decision no question concerning the interpretation of that act, but
only considerations of general law, this court, while it has power to
consider all such questions, will not reverse as to such questions unless it clearly appears that error has been committed.
Although the trial court in replying to counsel may have followed
counsel in, erroneously referring to assumption of risk instead of
contributory negligence and negligence of fellow-servants, if assumption of risk was not involved in the action or referred to in the testimony, the error, if any, was not prejudicial.
Where the record shows that the case was carefully and fully considered
in both of the courts below and the contentions, advanced to; support
the assertion that the interpretation of the Employers' Liability Act
is involved are so frivolous as to justify the conclusion that the
writ of error is prosecuted for delay, this court will impose a penalty,
in this case of five per cent. upon the amount involved, under paragraph 2 of Rule 23.
207 Fed. Rep. 277, affirmed.

facts, which involve the construction of the Employers' Liability Act of 1908 as amended 1910, are stated
in the opinion.
THE

Mr. CaruthersEwing, with whom Mr. L. E. Jeffries was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The fact of injury to a servant carries with it no presumption of negligence on the part of the master, under
the circumstances of this case. Tex. &c. R. R. Co. v.
Barrett, 156 U. S. 617; Patton v. Tex. &c. R. Co., 179 U. S.
658; Looney v. Met. Ry. Co., 200 U. S. 480; Labatt's

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. GADD.
233 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Master & Servant (2d ed.), Art. 1604, p. 4898; G. Nor.
Ry. Co. v. Johnson, 176 Fed. Rep. 328; Midland Valley
R. Co. v. Fulgham, 18f Fed. Rep. 91.
A master is iot an insurer of the safety of his servants,
but must exercise reasonable care to protect them from
injury. Hough v. T. & P. R. R. Co., 100 U. S. 213; W. &
G. R. Co. v. McDade, 135 U. S. 554; U. P. Ry. Co. v.
O'Brien, 161 U. S. 451; C. 0. & G. R. Co. v. Tennessee, 191
U. S. 326; M. & 0. v. Yockey, 103 Fed. Rep. 265; Sandige
v. A., T. & S. F. R. R. Co., 193 Fed. Rep. 867; Narramore
v. C., C., C. & SI. L. R. R. Co., 96 Fed. Rep. 298; Mane v.
Erie R. R. Co., 198 N. Y. 221; Lancaster v. A., T. & S. F.
R. R. Co. (Mo.), 127 S. W. Rep. 607; I. & G. N. R. R. Co.
v. Schubert (Tex.), 130 S. W. Rep. 708; White on Personal
Injuries on Railroads, Art. 251.
Making a kicking switch, in the usual and customary
manner, even though it involves a sudden movement of
an engine, with a jerk or snap, is not negligence. Randall
v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 109 .U. S. 478; C., M. &c. R. R. v.
Voelker, 129 Fed. Rep. 532; Olds v. R. R. Co., 178 Massachusetts, 73; Worcester v. Ry. Co. (Tex.), 91 S. W. Rep.
339; Davis v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 152 Pa. St. 314; Skinner
v. Cen. Vt. R. R. Co., 73 Vermont, 336; Dumas v. Stone,
65 Vermont, 442; Guffey v. H. & St. J. Ry. Co., 53 MQ.
App. 462; Hedrick v. Mo. Pac. Ry. Co., 195 Missouri, 104;
C. & A.-R. R. Co. v. Arnol, 144 Illinois, 261; Cen. R. R.
Co. v. Sims, 80 Georgia, 749; S. W. Tel. Co. v. Woughter,
56 Arkansas, 206; Rutledge v. Mo. Pac. Ry. Co., 110 Missouri, 312; Youll v. S. C. & P. Ry. Co., 66 Iowa, 346; Hunt
v. Hurd, 98 Fed. Rep. 683; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Smith, 129
Alabama, 553; Carr v. St. Clair Tunnel Co., 131 Michigan,
392; White on Personal Injuries, Arts. 330, 331; Allen v.
A. C. L. R. Co., 49 A. & E. R. R. Cas. (N. S.), 576;
Schaible v. L. S. & M. R. R. Co. (Mich.), 21 L. R. A.
660.
The failure of the engineer to observe and take notice

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

233 U. S.

of the defendant in error, under the circumstances, was
not actionable negligence because the engineer owed the
defendant in error no duty to keep watch and ward over
him. A proper discharge of his duties, as'engineer, made
it impossible that he could keep track of the movements
of the fireman. C., C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Ballentine,
84 Fed. Rep. 933, 937; Goodlander Mill Co. v. Standard
Oil Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 401; Savings Bank v. Ward, 100
U. S. 195, 202; Aerkfetz v. Humphreys, 145 U. S. 418;
Bottum's Admr. v. Hawks, 84 Vermont, 370; Cook v. Rice
Lake Milling Co., 146 Wisconsin, 535; 1 White on Personal
Injuries, Arts. 19, 322.
There is no conflict in the evidence sufficient to carry
the case to the jury on the question whether the engineer
did or did not see defendant in error while he was on the
ground and about the steps of the engine cab. Evidence
that defendant in error was there to be seen and had a
torch which would have made him visible to anyone looking for him, or whose duty it was to look for him, does not
create a conflict with the affirmative statement of the
engineer that he did not see him and did not know he was
there, especially when the engineer explains why he did
not see him and why he did not know he was there. And
the case of defendant in error was stated, at the trial, as
based on the proposition that the engineer did not see
him. B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Baldwin, 144 Fed. Rep. 53;
McMillan v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 130 Fed. Rep. 827.
A party will not be permitted to take one position at
the trial and demand a judgment or verdict based thereon
and, thereafter and in the appellate court, be heard to
assert that what he stated at the hearing as the determinative question was not the real basis of his claim. N. Y.,
Lake Erie & W. Ry. Co. v. Estill, 147 U. S. 591; Badger
v. Ranlett, 106 U. S. 255; San Juan Light Co. v. Requena,
224 U. S. 89.
The defense of assumed risk was not abolished by the

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. GADD.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Employers' Liability Act, except to the extent that the
employ6 does not assume the risk of his employment
where the violation by the carrier of a statute enacted for
the safety of the employ6 caused or contributed to his
injury. The act does not affect the doctrine of assumption
of risk as it relates to the ordinary and usual hazards of
the master's service. Bcawers v. R. R. Co. (Ga.), 73 S. E.
Rep. 677; Freeman v. Powell (Tex.), 144 S. W. Rep. 1033;
Parker v. Pac. &c. R. R. Co. (Kans.), 129 Pac. Rep. 1151;
Hall v. VandaliaR. R. Co., 169 Ill. App. 12; Neal v. Idaho
&c. R. R. Co., 22 Idaho, 74.
Authorities recognizing the existence of the defense of
assumption of risk are: Seaboard Air Line v. Moore, 228
V. S. 433; Amer. R. R. Co. v. Birch, 224 U. S. 547; Cen.
R. Co. v. Colasurdo, 192 Fed. Rep. 901; Sandige v. A., T.
& S. F. Ry. Co., 193 Fed. Rep. 867.
While the defense of contributory negligence was abolished, the defense of assumption of risk was, by ยง 4 of the*
act, left unimpaired, except in cases based on violation of
statutory duty.
There is a wide distinction between contributory negligence and assumption of risk, the question of assumption
of risk being quite apart from that of contributory negligence.. Schlemmer v. Buffalo &c. Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 590,
596; R. R. v. McDade, 191 U. S. 68; Tuttle v. Ry. Co., 122
U. S. 189; Sou. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Seley, 152 U. S. 145.
Mr. John L. Stout for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The defendant in -error on this record sued the railway
company, the plaintiff in error, to recover damages for
personal injuries alleged to have been suffered through
its negligence. The cause of action was expressly based

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

upon the Employers' Liability Act,' it being averred that
at the time of the injury the plaintiff as an employ6 of
the defendant was assisting in the actual movement of
interstate commerce transportation in which the defendant company was then engaged. The case is here on error
prosequted by the Railway Comphny to a judgment of
the court below affirming a judgment of the trial court
upon a verdict. (207 Fed. Rep. 277).
In Chicago Junction Ry. v. King, 222 U. S. 222, it was
held that as the pleadings in that case based.the right
to recover upon an act of Congress, the Safety Appliarice
Law, there was power in this court to review the judgment
of a Circuit Court of Appeals-an authority which carried
with it the duty to consider and pass upon all questions
for decision in the case even although they might not concern the interpretation of the act of Congress upon which
the suit was based. But while thus ruling it was nevertheless declared that as questions of common law negligence not involving the interpretation of the statute fell
within the classes of questions which under the distribution df judicial power made by the act of 1891 (rebxpressed
in the Judicial Code) were determinable by the Circuit
Court of Appeals in last resort, where such questions were
brought here from a Circuit Court of Appeals because they
arose in a suit under the statute, and which for that reason
alorie could come here, whilst considering we would not
reverse as to such questions unless it clearly appeared
that error had been committed. Besides establishing
this rule it was further said that in disposing of such queqtions we would not feel it our duty to re-state the case
and re~xpound the principles applicable to its decision
below, but would as a general rule leave those subjects
where the Circuit Court of Appeals had left them, and
'The Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65,

as amended April 5, 1910, c. 143, 36 Stat. 291.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. GADD.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

would hence content ourselves with merely expressing
our ultimate conviction of the case as formed after an
adequate examination of the record. The principles
announced in the King Case were subsequently expressly
reiterated and applied in Seaboard Air Line v. Moore,
228 U. S. 433 and Chicago, R. I. & Pac. Ry. v. Brown,
229 U. S. 317. And in both of these latter cases it was
recognized that the ruling in the King Case was equally
applicable to cases brought here from the Circuit Court
of Appeals on the ground that the relief sought was based
on the Employers' Liability Act where the cause of action
arose since the adoption of the Judicial Code.
Coming to the case made by this record, although as
we have said, it is manifest that the cause of action was
based upon the Employers' Liability Act, we are of the
opinion that it presents for decision no question concerning the interpretation of that act since all the questions
which require to be decided merely involve considerations
of general law depending in no sense upon the particular
significance of the Employers' Liability Act. Under these
conditions it is apparent that. the case is absolutely controlled by the King Casei and we therefore content ourselves with saying that as after an adequate examination
of the record we find no ground whatever affording a clear
cGnviction that error was committed, affirmance must
follow.

This disposes of the entire case, but as it is insisted that
two propositions which it is asserted involve the meaning
of the Employers' Liability Act arose upon the record
and require to be'decided, we come not to decide the propositions but to point out the absolute want of merit in
the contention that they arose on the record for decision.
The first contention is based upon the refusal of a request
made by the defendant to take the case from the jury
by a peremptory instruction. Granting that in its ultimate analysis the request involved an appreciation of the
VOL. ccxxxiii-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Employers' Liability Act, nevertheless we are of opinion
that the absolute want of merit in the proposition in
view of the state of the proof caused the request intrinsically considered to be so unsubstantial and frivolous as
not to furnish any support for the contention that its refusal raised a question concerning the interpretation of
the statute.
The second contention rests upon the assumption that
the court below affirmed a supposed action of the trial
court in erroneously instructing the jury that the effect of
the Employers' Liability Act was to abolish the doctrine
of assumption of risk. The proposition is thus stated in
the opening sentences of the argument of the plaintiff
in error: "The trial judge held that said Employers'
Liability Act abolished the defense of assumed risk so that
the construction of the act is here involved." A brief
statement of the condition of the record on the subject is
necessary to demonstrate the entire want of foundation for
the proposition. The plaintiff was a locomotive fireman,
and the controversy in the case was whether the personal
injury which he suffered was occasioned by the reckless and
negligent conduct of the engineer in moving the engine
under the circumstances disclosed by the proof. In its
general charge, the court had instructed the jury that the,
plaintiff was entitled to recover if they believed the
testimony of the plaintiff which disclosed an unusual and
reckless movement of the engine by the engineer after he
had directed the fireman to descend from the engine to
ascertain whether there was a defect in its mechanism.
Coming then to consider special charges asked by the
respective parties, the court gave a charge requested by
the plaintiff as follows: "If you believe from the evidence
that the plaintiff was directed by the engineer Hunter to
get off the engine and examine the engine for defects, then
while said plaintiff was obeying the direction of Hunter,
it was Hunter's duty to look out for plaintiff and not move

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. GADD.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the engine until he knew that plaintiff was in a position of
safety." Upon the giving of this charge the defendant
excepted as follows: "I want to take exception to that
last statement on the ground that the fact that he moved
up that engine if he was in a place of safety is not stated
to be any cause of action in this case, and not involved in
the pleadings, and he was not injured by virtue of it."
And the counsel added: "We further except to the statement that the courtmade to the jury (evidently referring
to the general charge) that if they believe the facts as
stated by the plaintiff which left out of question the
doctrine of assumed risk." In response to which the
court said: "I understand that, the doctrine of assumed
risk is abolished by the Employers' Liability Act, in so far
as it relates to cases-wherein the servant is injured because
of the negligence of any of the officers, agents or employ6s, etc., of the carrier and contributory negligence is
modified so as that it no longer bars the right of action but
goes in reduction of the amount of recovery. But you
reserve your exception." From this statement it is evident
that no charge whatever was given by the cotfrt concerning
the assumption of risk and hence that no exception was or
could have been taken to any such charge, and that the
exception which was reserved concerned the special charge
as to the conduct of the engineer and the portion of the
general charge concerning liability if the testimony of the
plaintiff as to the negligence of the engineer was' believed,
the exception as to the latter having been placed on the
ground that the court had been silent as to assumption of
risk. And it is equally clear that this view is not affected
by taking into account the reply of the court to the comment of counsel. We say this because while the reply
echoed the counsel's mistaken use of the words "assumed
risk," by the qualification which it affixed to these words,
it clearly conveyed that as the matters to which the
excepted charge related purely concerned the common law

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

principles of fellow-servant and contributory negligence,
they were controlled by the provisions of the statute. And
this becomes certain when it is borne in mind that there
was nothing in that portion of the general charge which
was excepted to which in any possible view was relevant
to the doctrine of assumption of risk. If there were room
for the slighest doubt on the subject it is dispelled by the
following considerations: (a) hecause the record contains no intimation of any request for instruction concerning assumption of risk made by the defendant; (b) because
although the elaborate application for a new trial stated
many alleged grounds, not the slightest reference was made
to any supposed error committed with reference to the
mistaken construction of the statute concerning assumption of risk which is now relied upon; (c) because while in
the assignments'of error made for the purpose of review by
the Circuit Court of Appeals the special charge in connection with which the colloquy between court and counsel
took place was referred to and error assigned concerning
it for specified reasons, no reference was made to the
alleged mistake which is now relied upon concerning the
wrongful interpretation of the statute as to assumption of
risk. It may indeed be inferred that in the argument in
some form alleged error on such, subject was called to the
attention of the Circuit Court of Appeals since that court
in its opinion considered, and disposed of the subject by
directing attention to the qualifying words used in the
remarks of the trial judge, and to the fact that as assumption of risk was not at all involved in the testimony to
which the charge related, no prejudicial error could have
arisen. Certain is it however that in the assignments of
error made for the purposes of review by this court no
complaint whatever was made of the alleged mistake concerning the operation of the statute upon the doctrine of
assumed risk.
Before coming to order the judgment of affirmance

ITOW & FUSHIMI v. UNITED STATES.

233 U. S.

Syllabus.

which is the necessaw result of what we have said, we
briefly state the considerations which lead us to the conclusion that our duty is in "directing' such judgment to
award interest by way pf damages for delay under the
terms of the second paragraph of Rule 23. It is manifest
on the face of the record that theN'cse was carefully and
fully considered ini both of the courts,\below. In view of
the ruling in the King Case and, of what we have said concerning the conteniions aclvancedtb support the assertion
that the. interpretation of the statute was here involved,
we think the conclusion that the writ of error was prosecuted only for delay is plainly justified and that a
penalty by way 'of damages should be imposed. The
judgment below is therefore affirmed with five per cent.
upon the amount of the judgment in addition to the
interest allowed by law.
Affirmed with interest andfive per cent. damages.

ITOW AND FUSHIMI v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DIVISION NO. 1, TERRITORY OF ALASKA.

No. 714.

Argued April 8, 1914.-Decided May 11, 1914.

Judicial Code, ยง 134, governing the right to review cases in the District
of Alaska, changed the general rule of the prior law by taking capital
cases out of the class which could come to this court directly because

they were capital cases and by bringing such cases within the final
reviewing power of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit.

Under ยง 247, Judicial Code, this court has power to review directly the
action of the District Courts of Alaska practically in the same classes
of cases as were provided in ยง 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891.

As the record in this case does not show that any reliance was placed,

