OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

threatened and intended to take and occupy and has
crossed and recrossed the plaintiff's location at many
points and different grades, with circumstances not
necessary to be detailed, and thus has made it impracticable for the plaintiff to proceed. It is found also that in
the location and acquisition of its line the plaintiff proceeded with due diligence, and in good faith, and that it
had expended more than one hundred thousand dollars
in the location arid securing rights of way before the
beginning of this suit. The defendant has gone ahead
since the suit was begun, but of course has acquired no
new rights by doing so. The objections to equitable
jurisdiction do not need separate discussion. The line is
found to be the best line between the points and the
plaintiff is entitled to it. It neither is to be forced into a
compulsory sale nor to be remitted to legal or statutory
remedies that rightly are thought to be inadequate by the
local court.
Decree affirmed.

GOMPERS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO, APPEAL FROM AND ON PETITION FOR CERTIORARI
TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Nos. 640, 574. Argued January 7, 8, 1914; restored to docket for reargument April 6, 1914; reargued April 20, 21, 1914.-Decided May 11,1914.
While this court cannot review by appeal or writ of error a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia punishing
for 'contempt it may grant a writ of certiorari to review the same.
Where two parties petition for writs of certiorari to review the same
judgment, but the entire matter can be disposed of on one petition,
the other will be denied.
Where the statute of limitations was pleaded, and, after a decision that
it was inapplicable, one general exception was presented on his behalf
in that regard, the rights of the defendant are sufficiently preserved.

GOMPERS v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The provision in Rev. Stat., § 1044, that no person shall be prosecuted
for an offense not capital unlesl, the indictment is found or information instituted within three years after commission of the offense,applies to acts of contempt not committed in the presence of the court.
Provisions of the Constitution of the United States are not mathematical formulas having their essence in their form, but are organic
living institutions transplanted from English soil. Their significance
is not to be gathered simply from the words and a dictionary but
by considering their origin and the line of their growth.
Contempts are none the less offenses because trial by jury does not extend to them as a matter of constitutional right.
The substantive portion of § 104, Rev. Stat., is that no person shall
be tried for any offense not capital except within the specified time,
and the reference to form of procedure by indictment or infoimation
does not take contempts out of the statute because the procedure is
by other methods than indictment or information.
Quore, whether an indictment will lie for a contempt of a court of
the United States.
In dealing with the punishment of crime, some rule as to limitations
should be laid down, if not by Congress by this court.
As the power to punish for contempt has some limit, this court regards
that limit to have been established as three years by the policy of the
law, if not by statute, by analogy. Adams v. Wood, 2 Cranch, 336.
40 App. D. C. 293, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of § 1044,
Rev. Stat., and its application to past acts of contempt,

are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alton B. Parker and Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with
whom Mr. William E. Richardson was on the brief, for
plaintiffs in error and appellants.
Mr. J. J. Darlington and Mr. Daniel Davenport, with
whom Mr. James M. Beck was on the brief, for the United

States.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

These are proceedings for alleged criminal contempts in
the matter that was before this court in Gompers v. Bucks

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418. In that case the proceedings instituted by the Bucks Stove & Range Company
to punish the petitioners were ordered to be dismissed,
but without prejudice to the power of the Supreme Court
of the District to punish contempt, if any, committed
against it. The decision was rendered on May 15, 1911,
and the next day the Supreme Court of the District appointed a committee to inquire whether there was reasonable cause to believe the plaintiffs in error guilty, in
wilfully violating an injunction issued by that court on
December 18, 1907, and, if yea, to present and prosecute
charges to that effect. The inquiry was directed solely
with a view to punishment for past acts, not to secure
obedience for the future; and to avoid repetition it will
be understood that all that we have to say concerns proceedings of this sort only, and further, only proceedings
for such contempt not committed in the presence of the
court.
The committee, on June 26, 1911, reported and charged
that the parties severally were guilty of specified acts in
violation of the injunction, being the same acts of which
they had been found guilty by the Supreme Court in the
former case. Rules to show cause were issued on the same
day'. The defendants pleaded the Statute of Limitations,
Rev. Stat., § 1044, as to most of the charges, and not
guilty. There was a trial, the Statute of Limitations was
held inapplicable and the defendants were found guilty
and sentenced to imprisonment for terms of different
lengths, subject to exceptions which by agreement were
embodied in a single bill. The Court of Appeals reduced
the sentences to imprisonment for thirty days in the case
of Gompers and fines of $500 for each. of the other two.
40 App. D. C. 293. The defendants brought a writ of
error and an appeal to this court and also petitioned for
a writ of certiorari. Of course an appeal does not lie, nor
does a writ of error, but the writ of certiorari is granted.

GOMPERS v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The judges of the Supreme Court also petitioned for a
writ of certiorari, but as the case will be disposed of on the
first mentioned petition, the other will be denied.
The injunction, subsequently held too broad, not only
forbade the defendants to combine to obstruct the business
of the Bucks Stove and Range Company, or to declare or
threaten any boycott against it (such a boycott already
having been declared), but also to publish any statement
calling attention of any body to any such boycott, or any
statement of like effect, tending to any injury of the Comp~any's business. This decree, although made on December 18, did.not become operative until December 23, 1907.
Before going to the Court of Appeals the injunction in
substantially the same form was made permanent on
March 23, 1908. It may be: assumed for the purposes of
our decision that the evidence not only warranted but
required a finding that the defendants were guilty of some
at least of the violations of this decree that were charged
against them, and so we come at once to consider the
Statute of Limitations, which is their only real defence.
A preliminary objection was urged, to be sure, that the
question of the validity of that defence was not reserved,
but there is nothing in it. The bar was pleaded, there was
a motion to dismiss on that ground for want of a replication, there was a decision that the statute did not apply to
contempts, and the counsel for the plaintiffs in error stated
at the trial that there was one general exception presented
on their behalf with regard to that. We cannot doubt that
it was perfectly understood, or that the record shows, that
the plaintiffs in error preserved all their rights.
The statute provides thai; 'no person shall be' prosecuted, tried, or punished for any offense, not capital, except ....
, unless the indictment is found, or the information is instituted within three years next~after such
offense shall have been committed.' Rev. Stat., § 1044.
Act of April 13, 1876, c. 56, 19 Stat. 32. The plaintiffs in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

error treat these proceedings as having begun on May 16,
1911, when the Supreme Court directed an inquiry. They
certainly did not begin before that date; so that, if the
Statute applies, contempts prior to May 16, 1908, Would
be barred. It is argued with force that the inquiry was
directed only to breaches of the preliminary injunction,
which expired by its own terms upon the making of the
final decree on March 23, 1908, and that therefore everything legitimately before the court, happened more than
three years before. But as the report mentioned the final
decree and charged a few acts later than March 23, though
mostly rather unimportant, and as the order to show cause
referred to a violation of the injunctions, in the plural, it
perhaps would savor of a technicality that we should be
loath to apply on either side, if we did not deal with all
that is charged.
The charges against Gompers are: 1, hurrying the publication of the January number of the American Federationist and distributing many copies after the injunction
was known and before it went into effect, in which number
the Bucks Stove and Range Company was included in the
'We don't patronize' list; 2, circulating other copies in
January, 1908; 3, on and after December 23, 1907, circulating another document to the like effect With comments,
some of which were lawful criticism but others of which
suggested that the injunction left the members of labor
organizations free to continue their boycott; 4, publishing
in February, 1908, a copy of the decree with the suggestion
that those who violated the injunction outside of the District could not be punished unless they came within it;
5, in January and February, 1908, publishing in conjunction with the other defendants a paper appealing for
financial aid, commenting on the injunction as invading
the liberty of the press and free speech and reprinting the
before-mentioned comments and suggestions; 6, in March,
1908, again suggesting that no law compelled the purchase

GOMPERS v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

'600

Opinion of the Court.

of a Bucks stove; 7, in April, 1908, after the final decree,
reiterating the same suggestion in the American Federationist; 8, in April, 1908, repeating similar suggestions by
transparent innuendo in a public address; 9, again repeating them in another address, on or about May 1; 10, and
again in the July issue of the American Federationist; 11,
publishing in the September Federationist an editorial
characterizing the injunction as an invasion of constitutional freedom, (which hardly seems to exceed lawful comment unless on the ground that the case was not finished,
although mistaken in ,its law); 12, in a report published
after September 9, 1908, saying that if the Executive
Council of the Federation of Labor obeyed the injunction
they could not report the state of the case to the Denver
Convention, and that they did not see how they could
refuse to give an account of their doings; 13, on September 29, 1908, saying in a public address that the injunction
forbade him to discuss the case, but that he must, (seemingly not going beyond that declaration); 14, on October 26, 1908, recurring in a single phrase in an address,
to his old suggestion that no law compelled his hearers to
buy a Bucks stove; 15, in November, 1908, in an address
-'which he caused to be published in the Federationist in
January, 1909, again referring to the injunction, mentioning his past advice and suggestions and that he had been
called on to show cause why he should not be adjudged
guilty of contempt, (in the former proceeding), and asking
how he could have done otherwise; and finally, 16, in a
report made in November, 1909, referring to the Judge as
so far having transcended his authority that even judges
of the Court of Appeals have felt called upon to criticize
his action, and saying that in such circumstances it is the
duty of the citizens to refuse obedience and to take whatever consequences may ensue. The charges against Mitchell and Morrison are mainly for having taken part in
some of the above mentioned publications, but need not
VOL. ccxxxx-39

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

be stated particularly, as all the acts of any substance in
Mitchell's case and all in that of Morrison were more
than three years old when these proceedings began.
The boycott against the Company was not called off
until July 19 to 29, 1910, and it is argued that even if the
statute applies the conspiracy was continuing until that
date, United States v, Kissel, 218 U. S. 601, 607, and there-'
fore that the Statute did not begin to run until then. But
this is not an indictment for conspiracy, it is a charge of
specific acts in disobedience of an injunction. The acts
are not charged as evidence but as substantive offenses;
each of them, so far as it was a contempt, was punishable
as such, and was chargedas such, and therefore each must
be judged by itself; and so we come to what, as we already
have intimated, is the real question in the case.
It is urged in the first place that contempts cannot be
crimes,, because, although punishable by imprisonment
and therefore, if crimes, infamous, they are not within the
protection of the Constitution and the amendments giving
a right to trial by jury &c. to persons charged. with such
crimes. But the provisions of the Constitution are not
mathematical formulas having their essence in their form;
they are organic living institutions transplanted from English soil. Their significance is vital not formal; it is to be
gathered not simply by taking the words and a dictionary,
but by considering their .origin and the line of their growth.
Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, 281, 282. It does not
follow that contempts of the class under consideration
are not crimes, or rather, in the language of the statute
offenses, because trial by jury as it has been gradually
worked out and fought out has been thought not to extend
to them as a matter of constitutional right. These contempts are infractions of the law, visited with punishment
as such. If such acts are not criminal, we are in error as
to the most fundamental characteristic of crimes as that
word has been understood in English speech., So truly are

GOMPERS v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

they crimes that it seems to be proved that in the early
law they were punished only by the usual criminal procedure, 3 Transactions of the Royal Historical Society,
N. S. p. 147 (1885), and that at least in England it seems
that they still may be and preferably are tried in that way.
See 7 Halsbury, Laws of England, 280, sub v. Contempt of
Court (604); Re Clements v. Erlanger, 46 L. J., N. S.,
pp. 375, 383. Matter of Macleod, 6 Jur. 461. Schreiber v.
Lateward, 2 Dick. 592. Wellesley's Case, 2 Russ. & M. 639,
667. In re Pollard, L. R. 2 P. C. 106, 120. Ex parte
Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38, 43. Bessette v. W. B. Conkey Co.,
194 U. S. 324, 328, 331, 332. Gompers v. Bucks Stove &
Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 441.
We come then to the construction of the Statute. It
has been assumed that the concluding words 'unless the
indictment is found or the information is instituted within
three years' limit the offences given the benefit of the act
to those usually prosecuted in that way, and the counsel
for the petitioners were at some pains to argue that the
charges of the committee amounted to an information;
a matter that opens vistas of antiquarian speculation.
But this question is not one to be answered by refinements
and curious inquiries.-In or opinion the proper interpretation of the Statute begins with the substantive not
with the adjective part. The substantive portion of the
section is that no person shall be .tried for any offence not
capital except within a certain time. Those words are of
universal scope. What follows' is a natural way of expressing that the proceedings must be begun within 3 years;
indictment and information being the usual modes by
which they are begun and very likely .no other having
occurred to those who drew the law. But it seems to us
plain that the dominant words of the act are 'no person
shall be prosecuted, tried, or ptmished for any offence not
capital' unless.No reason has been suggested to us for not giving to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

statute its natural scope. The English courts seem to
think it wise, even when there is much seeming reason for
the exercise of a summary power, to leave the punishment
of this class of contempts to the regular and formal
criminal process. Matter of Macleod, 6 Jur. 461. Maintenance of their authority does not often make it really
necessary for courts to exert their own power to punish,
as is shown by the English practice in more violent days
than these, and there is no more reason for prolonging the
period of liability when they see fit to do so than in the
case where the same offence is proceeded against in the
common way. Indeed the punishment of these offences
peculiarly needs to be speedy if it is to occur. The argument loses little of its force if it should be determined
hereafter, a matter on which we express no opinion, that
in the present state of the law an indictment would not
lie for a contempt of a court of the United States.
Even 'if the statute does not cover the case by its
express words, as we think it does, still, in dealing with the
punishment of crime a rule should be laid down, if not by
Congress by this court. The power to punish for contempt must have some limit in time, and in defining that
limit we should have regard to what has been the policy
of the law from the foundation of the Government. By
analogy if not by enactment the limit is three years. The
case cannot be concluded otherwise so well as in the language of'Chief Justice Marshall in a case where the statute
was held applicable to an action of debt for a penalty.
Adams v. Woods, 2 Cranch, 336, 340, 341, 342: "It is
contended that the prosecutions limited by this law, are
those only which. are carried on in the form of an indictment or information, and not those where the penalty is
demanded by an action of debt.-But if the words of the
act be examined they will be found to apply, not to any
particular mode of proceeding, but generally to any prosecution, trial or punishment-for the offence. It is not de-

LOGAN v. DAVIS.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

But it
.
dared that no indictment shall be found
is declared that 'No person shall be prosecuted, tried or
punished'

.

.

-In

expounding this law, it deserves

some consideration, that if it does not limit actions of
debt for penalties, those actions might, in many cases, be
brought at any distance of time. This would be utterly
repugnant to the genius of our laws. In a country where
not even treason can be prosecuted after a lapse of three
years, it could scarcely be supposed that an individual
would remain forever liable to a pecuniary forfeiture."
The result is that the judgments, based as they are mainly
upon offences that could not be taken into consideration,
Judgments reversed.
must be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissent.
LOGA:N v. DAVIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

No. 247.

Submitted March 9, 1914.-Decided May 11, 1914.

Under § 237, Judicial Code, this court has jurisdiction to review a
judgment of a state court denying a claim duly set up under a confirmatory patent issued under § 4 of the Land Grant Adjustment
Act of 1887 and holding that the patentee was not entitled to the
benefit of the provisions of that section.
The decision of the Secretary of the Interior that the grantee of a
railroad company was a purchaser in good faith in the sense of the
Adjustment Act of 1887, is conclusive so far as it is based on fact
and cannot be disturbed except as it may be grounded upon an error
of law, there being no charge of fraud.
The practical interpretation of an ambiguous or uncertain statute by
the Executive Department charged with its administration is entitled to the highest respect; and, if acted upon for a number of years,
will not be disturbed except for very cogent reasons.
Successive Secretaries of the Interior having uniformly interpreted the
remedial sections of the Adjustment Act of 1887 as embracing pur-

