OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

MYERS v. PITTSBURGH COAL COMPAN'Y.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 816. Argued February 27, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.
The duty of the master to use reasonable diligence to provide a safe
place for the employ~s to work is a continuing one which is discharged
only when he provides and maintains a place of that character.
Where workmen are engaged in a hazardous occupation, such as underground mining, it is the duty of the master to exercise reasonable
care for their safety, and not to expose them to injury by use of dangerous appliances or unsafe places to work, when such appliances and
places can, by the exercise of due care, be made reasonably safe.
Where, on the evidence, reasonable men might well find that a man,
found in a mangled and dying condition in a mine on a track beneath an overhead wire, was killed by negligence, and it cannot
be said that no such conclusion could be reached on the testimony,
it is not error to submit the question to the jury; and where, as in
this case, the testimony can fairly support the verdict, it should not
be set aside.
Where the court clearly instructed the jury that the defendant mineowner was not liable in case the haulage system alleged to have
caused the accident was in charge of a person for whose conduct the
owner was not responsible under the law, and that the owner was only
liable in case that system was under charge of a person for whose
conduct the owner was responsible, the charge in this respect is not
unfavorable to the owner and affords no ground for reversal.
It is not error for the court to refuse to affirm a particular and immaterial point in regard to the alleged negligence of the defendant when it
would only serve to possibly confuse the jury and the point has already been covered by the charge.
Where the court was not requested to charge that the employA had
assumed the risk of want of proper appliances, and no exception
was taken to the failure to charge as to assumption of risk, the appellate court is not called on to consider that question.
The trial court having entered judgment on a verdict for plaintiff
and the Circuit Court of Appeals having reversed, and without
remanding or directing a new trial, ordered judgment for defend-

MYERS v. PITTSBURGH COAL CO.
233 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

ant, this court, finding there was no reversible error in the conduct
of the trial, reverses the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
and affirms the judgment of the trial court and remands the case to
the District Court which has succeeded to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court which tried the case.
203 Fed. Rep. 221, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict for
death of an employ6 claimed to have been occasioned by
the negligence of the master, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles K. Robinson, with whom Mr. Edward C.
Goodwin and Mr. Frank H. Kennedy were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Don Rose, with whom Mr. Charles Marshall Johnston was on the brief, for respondent:
There was no evidence from which the jury should be
permitted to find what caused Myers' death.
. There was no negligence on the part of defendant.
There was not failure to provide adequate light at a dangerous place. It was not a customary or usual practice in
the business to have lightii at switches at the time of the
accident in any mine.
The employer is bound to furnish machinery, appliances
and equipment that are of ordinary character and reasonable safety, and the fact that they are of ordinary character is the conclusive test of their reasonable safety.
Titus v. Railroad Co., 136 Pa. St. 618, 626; Kehler v.
Schwenk, 144 Pa. St. 348; Reese v. Hershey, 163 Pa. St.
253, 257; Keenan v. Waters, 181 Pa. St. 247; Higgins v.
Fanning & Co., 195 Pa. St.. 599, 602; Service v. Shoneman,
196 Pa. St. 63; McCarthy v. Shoneman, 198 Pa. St. 568;
Boop v. Lumber Co., 212 Pa. St. 525; Fick v. Jackson,
3 Pa. Sup. Ct. 378; Washington &c. R. R. v. McDade,
135 U. S. 554; Southern Pac. Ry. v. Seley, 152 U. S. 145,
,151; Kilpatrick v. Railroad, 121 Fed. Rep. 11; Law v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Respondent.

233 U. S.

Telegraph Co., 140 Fed. Rep. 558. See also Keats v.
Machine Co., 65 Fed. Rep. 940; Crawley v. The Edwin, 87
Fed. Rep. 540; Donegan v. R. R., 165 Fed. Rep. 869.
The burden was upon the plaintiff to introduce evidence
from which the jury could fairly find that it was the
general, usual, and ordinary custom adopted by those in
the business of mining to have a light at switches, and
that defendant below had failed to comply with such
general, usual, and ordinary custom.
While defendant admits the motor was being operated
substantially without a headlight, this was not its negligence, as the operation of the haulage system was under
the jurisdiction of the mine foreman. Durkin v. Kingston
Coal Co., 171 Pa. St. 193. See Pennsylvania Anthracite
Mining Law of 1891, Pub. Law 176.
This ruling has been applied to the Pennsylvania
Bituminous Coal Mining Law of May 15, 1893, Pub.
Law 52. Wolcott v. Erie Coal Co., 226 Pa. St. 210.
As to a matter entirely under the jurisdiction of the
mine foreman, the operator is not liable in Pennsylvania,
whatever may be the rule of law in other States. Hall
v. Simpson, 203 Pa. St. 146; Golden v. Mt. Jessup Coal Co.,
225 Pa. St. 164; D'Jorko v. Berwind-White Co., 231 Pa.
St. 164, 170; Rafferty v. National Mining Co., 234 Pa. St.
66; Pittsburgh-Buffalo Co. v. Cheko, 204 Fed. Rep. 353.
The burden was upon the plaintiff to show negligence
on the part of the defendant. This burden was not sustained. There was no evidence showing negligence of
defendant in permitting an exposed live trolley wire to
cross a main track at an insufficient height.
Even if the trolley pole failed to automatically throw
the automatic switch, and the motorman was compelled
to throw it by hand, the failure of a device to work is
not evidence that it is out of repair or defective, nor is it
evidence of negligence on the part of the master. Railway
Co. v. Carr, 153 Fed. Rep. 106, 110; Patton v. Railroad,

MYERS v. PITTSBURGH COAL CO.
233 U. S.'

Argument for Respondent.

179 U. S. 658, 663; Ash v. Verlenden Brothers, 154 Pa. St.
246; Brunner v. Blaisdell, 170 Pa. St. 25; Snodgrass v.
Steel Co., 173 Pa. St. 228, 233; Spees v. Boggs, 198 Pa. St.
112, 116; Surles v. Kistler, 202 Pa. St. 289; Bauman v.
Best Mfg. Co., 234 Pa. St. 416; Shandrew v. Railway Co.,
142 Fed. Rep. 320.
If there was negligence it was the negligence of the duly
certified mine foreman under the Pennsylvania Bituminous
Coal Mining Law. Even if the alleged negligence existed,
plaintiff failed to show that it was the proximate cause
of the accident.
The jury cannot be permitted to guess as to the proximate cause, and the trial judge did permit them to guess
as to what caused Myers' death. Alexander v. Pennsylvania Water Co., 201 Pa. St. 252; Marsh v. Lehigh Valley
Railroad, 206 Pa. St. 558; Allen v. Kingston Coal Co., 212
Pa. St. 54.
Negligence, contributory or other, is not to be presumed,
but must be shown by evidence. Snodgrass v. Carnegie
Steel Co., 173 Pa. St. 228; Welsh v. Railroad Co., 181 Pa.
St. 461; Ziegler v. Simplex Foundry Co., 228 Pa. St.
64; Ault v. Cowan, 20 Pa. Sup. Ct. 616; Bube v. Weatherly
Borough, 25 Pa. Sup. Ct. 88; Cawley v. Balto. & Ohio R.
Co., 44 Pa. Sup. Ct. 340; Eigenbrodt v. Williamsport,
44 Pa. Sup. Ct. 437; Fahey v. Steel Foundry Co., 19 Pa.
Dist. Rep. 314; Rodgers v. L. & N. R. R., 88 Fed. Rep.
462; Electric Co. v. Cronon, 166 Fed. Rep. 651, 658;
Clare v. Railroad Co., 167 Massachusetts, 39; Leary
v. Fitchburg Ry. Co., 173 Massachusetts, 373; Warner v.
S. L. M. R. Co.; 178 Missouri, 125; Owen v. Ill. Cent. R. R.,
77 Mississippi, 142; Kenneson v. Railroad Co., 168 Massachusetts, 1.
The doctrine of assumption of risk rules this case. The
employ6 assumes the usual dangers and risks of his
employment, not only those which exist at the time he
enters into his employment, but also the open and patent

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Respondent.

233 U. S.

dangers and risks that arise during his continuance
therein, unless he makes complaint to his employer of
such dangers arising, and is induced by his employer
to continue in his employment by promises of change
or repair. Master and Servant, 26 Cyc. 1205; Rummell
v. Dilworth, 111 Pa. St. 343, 349; New York &c. R. R. v.
Lyons, 119 Pa. St. 324, 335; Bermisch v. Roberts, 143
Pa. St. 1, 5; Powell v. Tin Plate Co., 215 Pa. St. 618, 621;
Jones v. Burnham, 217 Pa. St. 286.
The employ6 who continues in an employment, which
by reason of defective machinery or appliances he knows
to be dangerous, assumes the risk of any accident that
may result therefrom. Talbot v. Sims, 213 Pa. St. 1,
3; Wannamaker v. Burke, 111 Pa. St. 423; Brossman v.
Railroad Co., 113 Pa. St. 490; Railroad Co. v. Hughes, 119
Pa. St. 301; Boyd v. Harris, 176 Pa. St. 484; McCarthy
v. Shoneman, 198 Pa. St. 568; Wilkinson v. Johns Mfg.
Co., 198 Pa. St. 634; Nelson v. Railway Co., 207 Pa. St.
363; Lindberg v. Tube Co., 213 Pa. St. 545; Danisch v.
Amer, 214 Pa. St. 105; Sandt v. Foundry Co., 214 Pa. St.
215; Schneider v. Quartz Co., 220 Pa. St. 548; Fick v. Jackson, 3 Pa. Sup. Ct. 378; Auburn v. Tube Works, 14 Pa. Sup.
Ct. 568; Choctaw &c. R. R. v. McDade, 191 U. S.64; Butler
v. Frazee, 211 U. S.459; St. Louis Cordage Co. v. Miller,
126 Fed. Rep. 495; Burke v. Union Coal Co., 157 Fed.
Rep. 178,181; M., K. & T. R. Co. v. Wilhoit, 160 Fed. Rep.
440, 444; Haines v. Spencer, 167 Fed. Rep. 266, 269.
If the defect is so clearly observable that the employs
must be presumed to know of it, and he continues in the
master's employ without objection, he is taken to have
made his election to continue in the employ notwithstanding this defect, and in such case cannot recover.
Cases supra and Texas R. R. Co. v. Archibald, 170 U. S.
665; Gulf, &c. R. R. v. Jackson, 65 Fed. Rep. 48; Am.
Dredging Co. v. Walls, 84 Fed. Rep. 428; Detroit Oil Co. v.
Grable, 94 Fed. Rep. 73; Mining Co. v. Kettleson, 121 Fed.

MYERS v. PITTSBURGH COAL CO.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Rep. 529; Chicago R. Co. v. Benton, 132 Fed. Rep. 460;
Lake v. Shenango, 160 Fed. Rep. 887; Wollington v. Railroad Co., 161 Fed. Rep. 713; Am. S. & T. P. Co. v. Urbanski, 162 Fed. Rep. 91; Solt v. Cenney, 162 Fed. Rep. 660;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Lyons, 169 Fed. Rep. 557; Errico v.
Company, 170 Fed. Rep. 852; Troxell v. Railroad Co., 180
Fed. Rep. 871.
MR.JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Annie Myers brought an action in the United States
Circuit Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania
to recover for the death of her husband, John Myers,
alleged to have been caused by the negligence of the defendant, the Pittsburgh Coal Company. Under the law of
Pennsylvania she might bring this action for the benefit
of herself and minor children. A verdict was rendered
against the Coal Company; on writ of error the case was
reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit (203 Fed. Rep. 221), and it was brought here on
writ of certiorari to that court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals was of the opinion that
upon the facts shown the plaintiff had not made out the
right to recover and the judgment was reversed without
directing a new trial and without sending the case back
to the District Court, which had succeeded to thi jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, for that purpose. This was
error within the doctrine of Slocum v. New York Life Ins.
Co., 228 U. S. 364; Pedersenv. Del., Lack. & West. R. R. Co.,
229 U. S. 146, 153. It is further contended that apart
from the question just noticed, the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in reversing the judgment of the Circuit Court,
as it did, upon the ground that there was not sufficient
testimony in the case to show that the deceased came to
his death by the negligence charged in the petition. To
determine this question involves a brief consideration of
the facts in the case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

John Myers, at the time of his death, was, and for
several months had been in the employ of the Coal Company as "snapper" or brakeman in underground operations, taking part in the movement of cars in and about
the mine. It appears that on the morning of the injury,
a train of empty coal cars, some thirty or forty in number,
was being taken down the main entry and then further
down a side entry into the mine where the cars were to be
subsequently distributed in the work. The manner of
operation was that empty cars were hauled by a large
electric motor car down the main entry to a side entry
where a flying switch was made by which the motor car
continued in the main entry beyond the junction of the
side entry and the cars ran down the side entry for a considerable distance, then, upon signal from Myers, whose
duty it was to ride upon the rear car of the train, by the
waving of his cap, which contained a lamp, or by the
movement of his head with cap on, the motor car followed
on down the entry, the purpose being to overtake the
empty cars and distribute them in the mine. Down the
side entry about 157 feet from the main entry was an
automatic switch, which would turn the current into the
trolley wire and permit the motor car to proceed farther
into the mine. It was not working properly,, and the
motorman alighted and turned the switch by hand, returned to the motor car and proceeded. Up to the time
the motor car reached the automatic switch Myers had
been seen signalling for the motor car to come on. Some
distance further there was a branch of the trolley system
running into another entry, and the trolley wire passed
over the tracks in the side entry at a distance of about
five feet seven and one-half inches above the rail, making
it necessary for one of ordinary height to remain seated
in the car or to stoop down. The roof of the entry was
about nine feet above the rail at this point. There was
no light at this switch, nor was the wire guarded in any

MYERS v. PITTSBURGH COAL CO.,
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

way. It also appears that because of ineffective carbons
the headlight on the motor car was not burning, and had
not been burning, for several days; that requisition had
been made upon the superintendent of the mine for new
carbons but that there were none at the mine. The motorman testified that when the headlight was burning he
could see objects on the track clearly at a distance of
twenty-five or thirty yards, and that he could stop his
car in about thirteen feet. Continuing on from the switch,
as we have said, the motor car suddenly ran upon something, was stopped, and it was found that Myers had been
run over. He was lying in the middle of the track with
his head toward the motor and his cap, upright, with the
light still burning, was lying beside the track. Myers'
body was badly torn and mangled before the motor car
could be stopped. His tongue was found to be moving,
but he shortly died from his injuries. It was also shown
that Myers was a man of unusual strength and vigor,
twenty-nine years of age, and to all appearances in full
health and strength shortly before the injury.
The trial court submitted the case to the jury to determine whether the defendant had failed to discharge
its duty of using reasonable care to provide a proper and
safe place for Myers to work, that is, in failing to provide
adequate lights at a dangerous place and permitting the
motor car to be operated without the headlight, and also in
permitting an exposed live. trolley wire to cross the main
track at insufficient elevation. An inspection of the record
satisfies us that there was testimony enough in the case
to carry these questions to the jury under the instructions
which were given. The duty of the master to use reasonable diligence to provide a safe place for the employ~s
to work, to carry on the occupation in which they are employed, is too well settled to require much consideration
now. This duty is a continuing one and discharged only
when the master provides and maintains a place of that

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

character. Baltimore & Potomac R. R. Co. v. Mackey,
157 U. S. 72, 87; Union PacificRy. Co. v. O'Brien, 161 U. S.
451; Choctaw, Oklahoma &c. R. R. Co. v. McDade, 191
U. S. 64; Kreigh v. Westinghouse & Co., 214 U. S. 249, 255.
Under the case made, the jury might well have found that
the overhead wire was hung too low for the safety of the
men; that there was want of adequate light at this place,
and that it was negligence to run the motor car into such
a place without the light which it was its duty to provide.
Where workmen are engaged in such mines in occupations
more or less hazardous, it is the duty of the master to
exercise reasonable care for their safety and not to expose
them to injury by use of dangerous appliances or unsafe
places to work, when the exercise of due skill and care will
make the appliances and places reasonably safe. Choctaw,
Oklahoma &c. R. R. Co. v. McDade, supra, 66; Kreigh v.
Westinghouse & Co., supra, 256.
The opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals placed the
reversal largely upon the want of definite proof as to the
manner in which Myers came to his death, whether by
contact with the wire, or, if so, whether that merely disabled him or he was only injured or stunned by the fall,
was seized with vertigo or other sudden sickness and fell
from the car for that reason, or lost his footing by some
unexpected movement of the train or voluntarily got off
the car and stumbled and fell upon the track, or became
bewildered in the dark and mistakenly supposed himself
to be in a place of safety. The court held that all these
situations were more or less probable, and, in the absence
of some more accurate means of ascertaining the true
condition in this regard, no recovery could be had for the
wrongful causing of his death, and that an examination of
the testimony brought the court to the conclusion that the
jury should not have been permitted to guess as to the
proximate cause of death. This question, however, was
submitted to the jury and found against the defendant in

MYERS v. PITTSBURGH COAL CO
233 U. S.

the trial court.

Opinion of the Court.

Unless the tE!stimony was such that no

recovery can be had upon the facts shown in any view
which can be properly taken of them the verdict and judgment of the District Court must be affirmed.
That there was ample testimony to carry the question
of negligence to the jury we have already said, and in any
case it cannot be said as a matter of law that there was
no evidence tending to show that Myers came to his death
by the negligence of defendant in one or more of the ways
charged in the petition. Considering the testimony, as it
must be considered in determining questions of this character in appellate courts, in its most favorable aspect to
the plaintiff below, we think the jury might well have
found, in view of the place at which the body of Myers was
found near to the wire, with his cap gone from his head,
that 'he came in contact with that wire and was thrown to
the ground, and that he survived from contact with the
wire, carrying the voltage which it did, and while in this
situation was run over and killed by the approaching
motor car, the operator being unable to see his body upon
the track because of the want of efficient light in the entry
or in the motor car. We think reasonable men considering
the testimony adduced might well have come to this conz
clusion, and that it was error in the appellate court to set
aside the verdict for entire absence of testimony upon this
subject. In our opinion, the trial court properly left the
question to the jury upon testimony which when fairly
considered might sustain the verdict. See Humes v.
United States, 170 U. S. 210.
As to the contention that the trial court erred in refusing to give the instruction requested by the Coal Company to the effect that the equipment and operation of
the electric haulage plant and all persons employed in the
mine were in charge and subject to the orders and direction
of a duly qualified mine foreman, and that, if decedent's
death occurred by reason of negligence, such negligence
VOL. CCXXXIII-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

was that of the mine foreman and the Coal Company
could not be held liable: The record shows that there was
testimony tending to show that the electrical system was
in charge of the electrician of the Coal Company employed as Superintendent of Electrical Equipment, who
had charge of the purchase, installation, care, operation
and maintenance of the electrical equipment used by the
Company and who was not subject to the mine foreman.
The court submitted to the jury the question whether the
Coal Company had committed to the mine foreman the
electric system of hauling in the interior of the mine or
whether such system was in charge of an electrical engineer
not accountable to the mine foreman, distinctly telling
the jury that if the mine foreman was in charge in this
respect the company would not be responsible, but if
they found that the Coal Company had excluded from
the control of the mine foreman the electric haulage system
and that the negligence of the Coal Company was the
direct and proximate cause of the death of the plaintiff's
husband, there must be a recovery. The charge in this
respect was as favorable as the company was entitled
to have given.
As to the objection that the court erred in failing to give
the instruction requested by the defendant concerning
the operation of the automatic switch, to the effect that
if it did not work on the trip on which the decedent was run
over and even if it was out of order those conditions would
not contribute to the running over of the decedent by the
motor car or to his death, it is sufficient to say that the
court in its charge to the jury 'did not submit a question
of negligence specifically concerning this automatic switch
and its effect if out of repair, and to have affirmed this
point by giving it to the jury would only have served to
possibly confuse the jury upon a point immaterial to the
plaintiff's recovery in view of the manner in which the
case was given in charge to the jury.

RUSSELL v. SEBASTIAN.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

We have examined the charge and the exceptions thereto
and requests for instructions and are of opinion that the
trial court fairly submitted the questions involved to the
jury in a charge to which there was no substantial objection.
As to the suggestion that the deceased had assumed the
risk of the want of proper appliances and the defective
character of the light at the place in which he worked and
was injured, we do not find that the court was requested
to make any charge upon that subject or that any exception was taken to the court's failure to charge as to
assumption of risk. In that state of the record, the appellate court was not called upon to consider that question.
See Humes v. United States, supra. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed the case for the reason, which we have
stated, that there was an entire failure of adequate testimony to show that Myers came to his death by the negligence of the company in the manner charged. As we
have said, we think that was an erroneous conclusion.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be reversed and the judgment of the Circuit Court
affirmed and the case remanded to the District Court.

RUSSELL v. SEBASTIAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 415.

Argued January 6, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

In determining the question of impairment under the contract clause of
the Constitution it is the duty of this court to determine for itself
the nature and extent of rights acquired under prior legislative or
constitutional action.

The state court having construed a statutory or constitutional provi.

