OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

91-.3 U. S.

RICHARDS v. WASHINGTON TERMINAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 52.

Argued November 7, 1913.-Decided May 4, 19,14.

Although in England, Parliament, being omnipotent, may authorize
the taking of private property for public use without compensation,
the English courts decline to place an unjust construction on its acts,
and, unless so clear as not to admit any other meaning, do not interpret them as interfering with rights of private property.
Legislation of Congress is different from that of Parliament as it must
be construed in the light of that provision of the Fifth Amendment
which forbids the taking of private property for public use without
compensation.
While Congress may legalize, within the sphere of its jurisdiction, what
otherwise would be a public nuisance, it may not confer immunity
from action for a private nuisance of such a character as to amount
in effect to a taking of private property for public use.
While the owners of a railroad constructed and operated for the public
use, although with private property for private gain,are not, in the
absence of negligence, subject to action in behalf of owners of neighboring private property for the ordinary damages attributable to the
operation of the railroad, a property owner may be entitled to compensation for such special damages as devolve exclusively upon his
property and not equally upon all the neighboring property.
In this case, held that an owner of property near the portal of a tunnel
in the District of Columbia constructed under authority of Congress,
while not entitled to compensation for damages caused by the usual
gases and smoke emitted from the tunnel by reason of the proper
operation of the railroad is entitled to compensation for such direct,
peculiar and substantial damages as specially affect his property and
dimini.h it; value.
37 App. D. C. 289, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the right, under the Fifth
Amendment, of an owner to be compensated for special
and peculiar damages to his property by reason of the
operation of a railroad near the premises, are stated in the
opinion.

RICHARDS v. WASHINGTON TERMINAL CO. 547
233 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. Hugh H. Obear, with whom Mr. CharlesA. Douglas,
Mr. Thomas Ruffin, Mr. Edw. F. Colladay, Mr. Paul
Sleman and Mr. Harry F. Lerch were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr,John W. Yerkes, with whom Mr. George E. Hamilton and Mr. John J. Hamilton were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The Congress, in legislation directing the acquisition of
the right of way for this railroad construction, provided
only for payment of compensation to those whose land
was actually. appropriated, and made no provision for
recovery of damages by those who suffered injury through
the proper construction and operation of the road.
Where compensation for incidental and consequential
injuries to property is allowed, it follows from constitutional provisions or direct- legislation and in the absence
thereof there can be no recovery.
There has been no such taking of the property of plaintiff in error by defendant in error as requires or justifies
the making of compensation.
In support of these contentions, see Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe R. R. Co. v. Armstrong, 1 L. R. A., N. S., 113,;
Bedford v. United States, 192 U. S. 217; Beseman v. P. R. R.
Co., 50 N. J. L. 235; Boothby v. Androscoggin R. R. Co.,
51 Maine, 318; Briesen v. Long Island R. R. Co., .31 Hun,
112; Chicago v. Taylnr, 125 U. S. 161; Dunsmore v. Central
Iowa Ry. Co., 72 Iowa, 182; Friedmanv. N. Y. & H. R. R.
Co., 85 N. Y. Supp. 404; Gainesville H. & W. R. R. Co.
v. Hall, 78 Texas, 169; Gibson,v. United States, 166 U. S.
269; Hatch v. Ver. Cent. R. R?. Co., 25 Vermont, 49; High
Bridge Lumber Co. v. United States, 69 Fed. Rep. 320;
Kansas, N, & D. Ry. Co. v. Cuykendall, 42 Kansas, 234;
Marchantv. P. R. R. Co., 153 U. S. 380; Millard v. Roberts,
25 App. D. C. 225; Northern Trans. Co. v. Chicago, 99
U. S. 635; Penna. R. R. Co. v. Miller, 132 U. S. 75; Pum-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

pelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166; Richards v. Wash.
Terminal Co., 37 App. D. C. 289; Spencer v. R. R. Co., 23
W. Va. 427; Taylor v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 33 W. Va. 39;
Church of Latter-day Saints v. Oregon"ShortLine R. R. Co.,
23 L. R. A., N. S., 860; United States v. Alexander, 148
U. S. 186; United States v. Grizzard, 219 U. S. 180; United
States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445. Fifth Baptist Church Case,
108 U. S. 3171 distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE

PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, commenced
this action in the Supreme Court of the District of Colum-.
biA to recover for the damage to his property resulting
from the maintenance of an alleged nuisance by defendant
by means of the operation of a railroad and tunnel- upon
its own lands near to but not adjoining those of plaintiff.
Defendant having pleaded not guilty, the issue came on
for trial by jury, and at the conclusion of plaintiff's evidence a verdict was directed in favor of defendant. The
Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment (37 App. D. C.'
289), and a writ of, error brings the controversy under the
review of this court.
An agreed abridgment of the evidence upon which the
ruling of the trial justice was based is embodied in the bill
of exceptions. From this it appears that plaintiff is and
has been since the year 1901 the owner of Lot 34,in
Square 693 in the City. of Washington, having a frontage
of 20 It. upon the westerly side pf New Jersey Avenue,
Southeast, 'and an average depth of 81 ft., with improvements thereon consisting of a three-story and basement
brick dwelling-house containing ten rooms, known as
No' 415 New Jersey Avenue. The rear windows upon all
-the floors of the house open in the direction of the railroad tracks that lead from defendant's tunnel. The sQuth
portal of this tunnel opens within Square 693 and near its

RICHARDS v. WASHINGTON TERMINAL CO.
233 U. S.

549

Opinion of the Court.

northeasterly corner, and the tunnel extends thence in a
northeasterly direction passing under the Capitol and
Library grounds and First Street N. E., to the Union
Station at Massachusetts Avenue. There are two sets of
railroad tracks in the tunnel and leading from it, and as
these emerge from the south portal they extend in a
general southwesterly direction up an incline or grade
across the central portion of Square 693 on to an elevated
structure -which carries the tracks over and beyond South
Capitol Street. The tunnel and these tracks are used for
the passage of trains running both northwardly And southwardly, about thirty each day, all of them being passenger
trains with the exception bf an occasional shifting engine.
The trains frequently pass in and out of the tunnel without
stopping, but trains also very often stop at or near a
switch tower that is situate near the centre of Square 693.
From the nearest portion of plaintiff's house to the centre
of the south portal, the distance in a straight line is about
114 ft., there being three intervening dwelling.houses,
two of which have been purchased and are now owned by
defendant. From the rear end of plaintiff's lot to the
middle of the tracks southwestwardly from-the portal the
distance in a straight line is about 90 ft. Plaintiff's
property has been damaged by the volumes of dense
black or gray smoke, and also by dust and dirtr cinders.and
gases, emitted from the trains while passihng over the
tracks and in or out of the tunnel or standing upon the
tracks near the signal tower. There is a fanning system
installed in the tunnel which causes the gases and smoke
emitted from engines white in the tunnel to be forced out
of the south portal, and these gases and smoke contami-:
nate the air, and also add to the inconvenience suffered
by plaintiff in the occupation of his property. His house
was pleasant and comfortable for purposes of occupation
before the construction of the tunnel and tracks, but since
then it has not only depreciated in value, but -the tenant

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

removed therefrom, and plaintiff was obliged to occupy
the house himself by reason of his inability to rent it. The
property has depreciated from a value of about $5,500 to
about $4,000, and the rental value from $30 per month to
$20 per month. The furniture and other belongings in the
house have been depreciated from a value of $1,200 to
$600, all of which depreciation is due to the presence of
smoke, cinders, and gases emitted from passing trains and
from the mouth of the tunnel, which smoke, cinders, and
gases enter the dwelling house and settle upon the furniture and other personal property contained in it, contaminating the air and rendering the house objectionable
as a habitation. The house has also been damaged by
vibrations caused by the movement of trains on the track
or in the tunnel, resulting in cracking the walls and wall
paper, breaking glass in the windows, and disturbing the
peace and slumber of the occupants.
The defendant, the Washington Terminal Company, is
the owner of the tunnel and of the tracks therein, but its
ownership of tracks ceases at the south portal. The
tracks extending therefrom in a southwesterly direction are owned and used by other railroad companies,
but the movement of the trains is controlled by defendant.
The tunnel and the tracks leading from it across Square
693 were located and constructed and are now maintained
under the authority of acts of Congress of February 12,
1901, c. 354, 31 Stat. 774, and February 28, 1903, c. 856,
32 Stat. 909, in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by those acts. No claim is made by plaintiff
that the tunnel, the tracks in Square 693, and the trains
operated therein and thereon, wer&constructed, operated,
or maintained in a negligent manner; and it is conceded
that the tunnel and tracks were built upon property acquired by purchase or condemnation proceedings, 'and
were constructed under authority of the acts of Congress

RICHARDS v. WASHINGTON TERMINAL CO.
233 U. S.

551

Opinion of the Court.

and of permits issued by the: Commissioners of the District of Columbia.
Such being the essential facts to be deduced from the
evidence, we have reached the conclusion, for reasons
presently to be stated, that with respect to most of the
elements of damage to which the plaintiff's property has
been subjected, the courts below correctly held them to be
damnum ab8que injuria; but that with respect to such
damage as is attributable to the gases and smoke emitted
from locomotive engines while in the tunnel, and forced
out of it by means of the fanning system through a portal
located so near to plaintiff's property that these gases and
smoke materially contribute to injure the furniture and
to render the house less habitable than otherwise it would
be, there is a right of recovery.
The acts of Congress referred to, followed by the construction of the tunnel and railroad tracks substantially
in the mode prescribed, had the effect of legalizing the
construction and operation of the railroad, so that its
operation, while properly conducted and regulated, cannot
be deemed to be a public nuisance. Yet it is sufficiently
obvious that the acts done by defendant, if done without
legislative sanction, would form the subject of an action
by plaintiff to recover damages as for a private nuisance.
At the same time, there is no exclusive and permanent
appropriation of any portion of plaintiff's land, which indeed does not even abut upon defendant's property. The
acts of Congress do not in terms provide for the payment
of compensation to property owners damnified through the
construction and operation of the tunnel and railroad
lines in question, except to those whose lands, or a portion
thereof, were necessarily appropriated. For damages,
whether direct or consequential, to non-contiguous parcels
such as that of plaintiff, there is no express provision. But
ยง 9 of the act of 1903 (32 Stat. p. 916) authorizes the
Terminal Company to acquire, by purchase or condemna-

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

tion, "the lands and property necessary for all and everythe purposes contemplated" by the several acts of Congress under which the tunnel and railroad were constructed
and are operated. This grant of the power of condemnation is very broad, but it has not been acted upon by the
company in the case of the present plaintiff. And since
he is not wholly excluded from the use and enjoyment of
his property, there has been no "taking" of the land in
the ordinary sense.
The courts of England, in a series of decisions, have
dealt with the general subject now under consideration.
Rex v. Pease, 4 Barn. & Ad. 30, 40; Vaughan v. Taff Vale
Ry. Co., 5 Hurl. & Nor. 679; 29 L. J. Exch. 247.; 1 Eng.
Rul. Cas. 296; Jones v. Festiniog Ry. Co.,: L. R., 3 Q. B.
733; Hammersmith &c. Ry. Co. v. Brand, L. R., 4 H. L.
171; 38 L. J. Q. B. 265; 1 Eng. Rul. Cas. 623; Metropolitan
Asylum District v. Hill, L. R. 6 App. Cas. 193, 201, 203;
London & Brighton Ry. Co. v. Truman, L. R. 11 App.
Cas. 45. The rule to be deduced from these cases is that
while no action will lie for an invasion of private rights
necessarily resulting from the establishment and operation
or railways and other public works under the express
sanction of an act of Parliament, yet that such acts are
to be strictly construed so as not to impair private rights
unless the legislative purpose to do so appears by express
words or necessary implication. In short, Parliament,
being omnipotent, may authorize the taking of private
property for public use without compensation to the
owner; but the courts decline to place an unjust construction upon its acts, and will not interpret them as interfering
with rights of private property, unless the language be
so clear as to admit of no other meaning.
But the legislation we are dealing with must be construed in the light of the provision of the Fifth Amendment---"Nor shall private property be taken for public
use, without just compensation "-and is not to be given

RICHARDS v. WASHINGTON TERMINAL CO. 553
233 U.S.

Opinion cf the Court.

an effect inconsistent with its letter or spirit. The doctrine of the English cases has been generally accepted by
the courts of this country,, sometimes with scant regard
for distinctions growing out of the constitutional restrictions upon legislative action under our system. Thus, it
has been said that "A railroad authorized by law and
lawfully operated cannot be deemed a private nuisance";
that "What the legislature has authorized to be done
cannot be deemed unlawful," etc. These and similar expressions have at times been indiscriminately employed
with respect to public and to private nuisances. We deem
the true rule, under the Fifth Amendment, as under state
constitutions containing a similar prohibition, to be that
while the legislature may legalize what otherwise would
be a public nuisance, it may not confer immunity from
action for a private nuisance of such a character as to
amount in effect to a taking of private property for public
use. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Angel, 41 N. J. Eq. 316,
329; Costigan v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 54 N. J. L. 233;
Cogswell v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R., 103 N. Y. 10; Garvey
V. Long Island R. R. Co., 159 N. Y. 323; Bohan v. Port
Jervis Gas Light Co., 122 N. Y. 18, 29; Sadlier v. City of
New York, 81 N. Y. S. 308.
But the question remains, in cases of the class now
before us, What is to be deemed a private nuisance such
as amounts to a taking of property? And by a great and
preponderant weight of judicial authority, in those States
whose constitutions contain a prohibition of the taking
of private property for public use without compensation,
substantially in the form employed in the Fifth Amend-.
ment, it has become established that railroads constructed
and operated for the public use, although with private
capital and for private gain, are not subject to actions in
behalf of neighboring ,property owners for the ordinary
damages attributable to the operation of the railroad, in
the absence of negligence. Such roads are treated as

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

public highways, and the proprietors as public servants,
with the exemption normally enjoyed by such servants
from liability to private suit, so fax as concerns the incidental damages accruing to owners of non-adjacent land
through the proper and skillful management and operation of the railways. Any diminution of the value of
property not directly invaded nor peculiarly affected, but
sharing in the common burden of incidental damages
arising from the legalized nuisance, is held not to be a
"taking" within the constitutional provision. The immunity is limited to such damages as naturally and unavoidably result from the proper conduct of the road and
are shared generally by property owners whose lands lie
within range of the inconveniences necessarily incident
to proximity to a railroad. It includes the noises and
vibrations incident to the running of trains, the necessary
emission of smoke and sparks from the locomotives, and
similar annoyances inseparable from the normal and nonnegligent operation of a railroad. Transportation Co. v.
Chicago, 99 U. S. 635, 641; Beseman v. PennsylvaniaR. R.
Co., 50 N. J. L. 235, 240; affirmed 52 N. J. L. 221.
That the constitutional inhibition against the taking of
private property for public use without compensation
does not confer a right to compensation upon a land owner,
no part of whose property has been actually appropriated,
and who has sustained only those consequential damages
that are necessarily incident to proximity to the railroad,
has been so generally recognized that in some of the States
(Arkansas, California, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North
Dakota, South Dakota, Texas, West Virginia, and Wyoming are, we believe, among the number) constitutions
have been established providing in substance that private
property shall not be taken or damaged, for public use
without compensation.
The immunity from liability for incidental injuries is

RICHARDS v. WASHINGTON TERMINAL CO.
233 U. S.

555

Opinion of the Court.

attended with a considerable degree of hardship to the
private land owner, and has not been adopted without
some judicial protest. But, as pointed out by Chief Justice Beasley in the Beseman Case, 50 N. J. Law at p. 238,
if railroad companies were Liable to suit for such damages
upon the theory that with respect to them the company
is a tortfeasor, the practical result would be to bring the
operation of railroads to a standstill. And, on the whole,
the doctrine has become so well established that it-amounts
to a rule of property, and should be modified, if at all,
only by the law-making power.
I But the doctrine, being founded upon necessity, is
limited accordingly. This court, in a leading case that we
deem controlling upon the questions now at issue, had
occasion to recognize this, and at the same time to apply
the distinction between public and private nuisances with
respect to the private right of action. In Baltimore &
Potomac R. R. Co. v. Fifth Baptist Church, 108 U. S. 317,
the court, while recognizing (p. 331) that the legislative
authority for operating a railway carried with it an immunity to private action based upon those incidental
inconveniences that are unavoidably attendant upon the
operation of a railroad, nevertheless sustained the right
of action in a case where a building for housing and repairing locomotive engines was unnecessarily established
in close proximity to a place of public worship and so used
that the noises of the shop and the rumbling of the locomotive engines passing in and out, the blowing off of steam,
the ringing of bells, the sound of whistles, and the smoke
from the chimneys, created a constant disturbance of the
religious exercises. The court (speaking by Mr. Justice
Field) held that the authority of the company to construct
such works as it might deem necessary and expedient for
the completion and maintenance of its road did not authorize it to place them wherever it might think proper
in the city, without reference to the property and rights

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

of others; and that whatever the extent of the authority
conferred, it was accompanied with the implied qualification that the works should not be so placed as by their
use to unreasonably interfere with and disturb the peaceful
and comfortable enjoyment of others in their property.
In the language of the opinion: "Grants of privileges or
powers to corporate bodies, like those in question, confer
no license to use them in disregard of the private rights
of others, and with immunity for their invasion." The
reasoning proceeded upon the ground (p. 332) that no
authority conferred by Congress would justify an invasion
of private property to an extent amounting to an entire
deprivation of its use and enjoyment, without compensation to the owner; "nor could such authority be invoked
to justify acts, creating physical discomfort and annoyance to others in the use and enjoyment of their property,
to a less extent than entire deprivation, if different places
from those occupied could be used by the corporation for
its purposes, without causing such discomfort and annoyance"; and hence that the legislative authorization conferred exemption only from suit or prosecution for the
public nuisance, and didnot affect "any claim of a private
citizen for damages for any special inconvenience and

discomfort not experienced by the public at large."
The present case, in the single particular already alluded
to-that is to say, with respect to so much of the damage
as is attributable to the gases and smoke emitted from
locomotive engines while in the tunnel, and forced out of it
by the fanning system therein installed, and issuing from
the portal located near to plaintiff's property in such
manner as to materially contribute to render his property
less habitable than otherwise it would be, and to depreciate it in value; and this without, so far as appears,
any real necessity existing for such damage-is, in our opinion, within the reason and authority of the decision just
cited. This case differs from that of the Baptist Church,

RICHARDS v. WASHINGTON TERMINAL CO. 557
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in that there the railroad company was free to select
some other location for the repair shop and engine house;
while here the evidence shows that the location of the
tunnel and its south portal was established pursuant to
law, and not voluntarily chosen by defendant. This
circumstance, however, does not, as we think, afford

sufficient ground for a distinction affecting the result.
The case shows that Congress has authorized, and in effect
commanded, defendant to construct its tunnel with a
portal located in the midst of an inhabited portion of the
city. The'authority, no doubt, includes the use of steam
locomotive engines in the tunnel, with the inevitable
concomitants of foul gases and smoke emitted from the
engines. No question 'is made but that it includes the
installation and operation of a fanning system for ridding
the tunnel of this source of discomfort to those operating
the trains and traveling upon them. All this being
granted, the special and peculiar damage to the plaintiff as
a property owner in close proximity to the portal is the
necessary consequence, unless at least it be feasible to
install ventilating shafts or other devices for preventing
the outpouring of gases and smoke from the entire length
of the tunnel at a single point upon the surface, as at.
present. Construing the acts of Congress in the light of
the Fifth Amendment, they do not authorize the imposition of so direct and peculiar and substantial-a burden
upon plaintiff's property without compensation to him.
If the damage is not preventable by the employment Iat
reasonable expense of devices such as have been suggested,
then plaintiff's property is "necessary for the purposes
contemplated," and may be acquired by purchase or
condemnation (32 Stat. 909, 916, c. 856, ยง 9), and pending
its acquisition defendant is responsible. If the damage is
readily preventible, the statute furnishes no excuse, and
defendant's responsibility follows on general principles,
No doubt there will be some practical difficulty in dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

tinguishing between that part of the damage which is
attributable to the gases and smoke emitted from the
locomotive engines while operated upon the railroad
tracks adjacent to plaintiff's land, and with respect to
which we hold there is no right of action, and damage that
arises from the gases and smoke that issue from the tunnel,
and with respect to which there appears to be a right of
action. How this difficulty is to be solved in order to
determine the damages that should be assessed in this
action, or the compensation that should be awarded in
case condemnation proceedings are resorted to, is a question not presented by this record, and upon which, therefore, no opinion is expressed.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded to the Court of
Appeals, with directions to reverse the judqment of the
Supreme Court of the District and remand the cause to
that court with directions for a new trial, and for
further proceedings in accordance with the views above
expressed.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

dissents.

GREEN v. MENOMINEE TRIBE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 285.

Argued March 13, 16, 1914.-Decided May 11, 1914.

Section 2 of the act of May 29, 1908, c. 216, 35 Stat. 144, conferring
jurisdiction on the Court of Claims to hear and determine claims of
certain Indian traders against the Menominee Tribe of Indians and
certain members thereof, created no new right in favor of such traders
except removal of the bar of limitations, and gave no right to she the
United States or any member of the Tribe in his individual capacity

