TEVIS v. RYAN.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

Arkansas Law containing this section was extended (32
Stat. 841) to the Indian Territory "so far as the same may
be applicable and not inconsistent with any law of Congress." It has no effect here because it is inconsistent
with the act of 1902 which declared that Indian land
should not be affected by a deed made before patent.
The deed to Franklin having been made before allotment
was void, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

TEVIS v. RYAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
ARIZONA.

TERRITORY OF

No. 189. -Argued January 23, 26, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.
Covenants in a contract between individuals who control a corporation,
in regard to disposition of its outstanding stock, construed in this
case to import a personal responsibility on the parties and not on
the corporation.
In this case, the cause of action being not on the contract alone, but
also upon alleged fraudulent conduct, evidence as to oral declarations
of the defendant was admissible to show the misrepresentations
alleged as basis for the claim of fraudulent inducement to make the
contract and fraudulent use of the property entrusted to the defendant thereunder.
Notice to either of joint contractors is notice to both.
A written paper offered and admitted as evidence of a demand and not
objected to as coming too late is not inadmissible because it contains
other matter. The proper course for the party objecting is to ask an
instruction limiting the effect of the paper to the demand or else to
base the objection on its coming too late.
A contract, providing that in a specified contingency the interest
of the parties surrendering control to the other party shall revest
in them in the same proportion and ratio as they held on the making of the contract, was properly construed as contemplating that

VOL. ccxxxiii-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.

the surrendering parties be restored to the same proportionate interest in the property as they held prior to the making of the agreement.
In affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Arizona which has been reduced by remittitur, this court does not
necessarily hold that the rulings of the court below were indubitably
correct, and it also takes into consideration Rev. Stat. Arizona 1901,
par. 1588, providing in substance that the trial court shall not be reversed for want of form if there is sufficient matter of substance in
the record to enable the Supreme Court to decide the case upon the
merits, and that excessive damages may be remitted pending the
appeal.
This court is not lightly disposed to disturb the decision of a territorial
Supreme Court turning, as it does in this case, largely upon local
practice.
13 Arizona, 282, affirmed.

THIs action was brought by defendants in error against
Tevis and McKittrick, two of the plaintiffs in error, in a
district court of one of the counties -f the then Territory

of Arizona. The trial resulted in a verdict and judgment
in favor of plaintiffs below for $132,000. On appeal, the
Supreme Court of the Territory held that because of error
affecting the amount of the damages, $64,564.63 of the
verdict ought to be remitted, and that upon the filing of a
remittitur judgment should be entered in favor of plaintiffs below for the remaining sum of $.67,435.37. 13 Arizona, 120. Both parties filed petitions for a rehearing,
with the result that the court adhered to its former view.
13 Arizona, 282. Plaintiffs having filed the remittitur,
judgment was entered in their favor for the last mentioned
sum, and the present writ of error was sued out.
The controversy arises out of the following transactions.
In 'the year 1902 plaintiffs and defendants were stockholders in an Arizona corporation known as the Turquoise
Copper Mining & Smelting Company, which owned
mining properties in Cochise County, Arizona. The
stock consisted of 100,000 shares, of the par value of
$10 each, of which the Ryans together owned four-

TEVIS v. RYAN.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

sevenths and Tevis and Me~ittrick owned three-sevenths.
The Ryans were in control of the board of directors.
About $160,000 had been expended towards the development of the mines, and this had been contributed by the
respective parties in proportion to their holdings of stock,
plaintiffs having contributed about $90,000, defendants
about $70,000. One Bryant had secured a judgment
and levied execution upon the property of the company,
under which the mines had been sold on July 30, 1902,
to one McPherson, subject to redemption on or before
January 31, 1903. In this situation of affairs plaintiffs
met the defendant McKittrick in Wilcox, Arizona, on
November 29, 1902, and, after some negotiation, a written
contract was drawn up and by them signed. Defendant
Tevis was not present at this meeting, and the agreement
was made contingent upon his signing, as he did a few
days later. It reads as follows:
"This agreement, made and entered into this 29th day
of November, 1902, by and between W. S. Tevis and
W. H. McKittrick, of Bakersfield, California, parties of
the first part, and Jepp Ryan, T. C. Ryan, and E. B.
Ryan, of Leavenworth, Kansas, parties of the second part,
"Witnesseth: That, whereas, the parties above mentioned represent all the stock in the Turquoise Copper
Mining and Smelting Company, a corporation organized
and existing under the laws of the Territory of Arizona,
and doing business in Cochise County, Arizona, and
"Whereas, the parties of the first part now own and
control three-sevenths of the capital stock of the said
corporation, and the parLies of the second part foursevenths of the capital stock thereof; and
"Whereas, the parties of the first part are desirous of
securing the controlling interest of the said capital stock
of the said corporation, and thereby obtain the full
management of the affairs of the said corporation;
"Now, thereforeT in consideration of, that the capital

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U.' S.

stock of the said corporation shall be changed from its
original capitalization to one million shares of the par
value of one dollar each share, and that 240,000 of said
shares, of said capital stock shall be placed in the treasury
of the said company, to be sold in whole or in part by
the said parties of the first part, at such price or prices as
the board of directors of said corporation may deem
advisable, and the moneys received from such sale or
sales shall be used as follows: First, to pay off and liquidate
a certain judgment held by T. B. McPherson, of Omaha,
Nebraska, or his assigns, against the said corporation, in
the amount of about $25,532.47 dollars. Second, to use
the next $20,000 received from the sale of said stock to
develop the claims now owned and controlled by this
company; the parties of the second part hereby agree to
and with the parties of the first part, that the officers in the
said corporation now representing the interest of the
parties of the second part shall resign from said office
or offices, and allow the parties of the first part to appoint
or elect such officers in their place and stead as they may
desire, said second parties agree to give the parties of the
first part as their interest in the said company, a total
of 280,500 shares of the capital stock thereof, and the
parties of the second part shall receive as their portion
279,500 shares of capital stock 'of the said company.
That the remaining 200,000 shares shall be divided between the parties hereto in the proportion of 101,000 shares
to the first parties, and 99,000 shares to the parties of the
second part; said 200,000 shares shall be issued to W. H.
McKittrick, as trustee for the, parties hereto. All of the
parties hereto agree to use their best endeavors to sell as
much of the said last-mentioned shares as possible, at not
less than par value, and the proceeds of any of such sales
of said block of stock shall be divided pro rata among the
parties hereto, until they have been fully reimbursed for
the money they now have expended upon this property,

TEVIS v. RYAN.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

amounting to about $160,000, when the remaining shares
shall be divided equally among them, according to their
respective interests in the ratio aforesaid.
"It is further understood and agreed between the parties
hereto that they shall not be allowed to sell any of their
individual holdings of stock in this company until the
block of 200,000 held in trust for all shall have been sold,
or apportioned, as above set forth. The parties of the
second part shall not be liable for any expense connected
with the operation of this company, excepting the expense
of selling the stock held in trust for the parties hereto.
The parties of the first part shall have a term of two years
in which to comply with all the requirements of this contract. Should they fail or refuse to comply with all the
agreements and stipulations herein mentioned within the
period aforesaid, then this agreement shall become null
and void and of no effect, otherwise to remain in full force
and effect. Should this contract be annulled by any
failure of the parties of the first part to do any and all
things herein required of them, then the interest of the
second parties shall reinvest in them in the same proportion and ratio as they held and were possessed of at the
signing of this agreement.
"It is further understood and agreed by and between the
parties hereto that W. S. Tevis, not being present upon the
signing hereof, that ten days' time be allowed him in
which to sign and ratify the same. Should he fail or refuse to do so within the period above mentioned, then
this instrument shall be null and void in respect to all
parties hereto. All erasures and changes and interlineations were made prior to the signing of this instrument.
"Witness our hands, the day and year first above
mentioned."
In accordance with the agreement, a reorganization of
the company was effected, the Ayans resigned as directors,
control of the directorate passed to Tevis and McKittrick,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.

and the capital stock was changed so as to consist of
1,000,000 shares, of the par value of $1 each, which were
allotted as prescribed by the contract, viz:
To Tevis and McKittrick ...........
280,500 shares
To the Ryans .....................
279,500
To McKittrick as Trustee ..........
200,000
Treasury stock ....................
240,000
Total ................
1,000,000
"
The mines of the company were redeemed from the
sheriff's sale with $30,000 loaned for the purpose by Tevis
upon the company's note. This note, with others given
by the company for the interest upon it, was transferred
by Tevis to the Western Company of California, a corporation controlled by him.
The reorganized Turquoise Company did not prosper.
Defendants sold 32,000 shares of the treasury stock at
25c per share, netting $8,000, and the remaining 208,000
shares at Yc per share, netting $1,560. This money was
spent in operating the mines and in paying for a diamond
drill, for patents, and for attorney's fees. In May, 1905,
the Western Company secured judgment against the
company in a California court for the amount of the notes
and interest, aggregating $44,078.05, and an action was
brought on this judgment in Cochise County, Arizona,
resulting on July 20, 1905, in a judgment for $44,549.43.
On this same day McKittrick secured judgment against
the company for $9,975 for services as general manager
from May, 1903, to June, 1905. The following day
(July 21, 1905) execution was levied against the mining
properties to satisfy the judgments of McKittrick and
the Western Company; and on July 11, 1906, the property
was sold by the sheriff to that company. A few days
later defendants, with others, organized the Tejon Mining
Company under the laws .of Arizona, and two years afterwards the Western Company conveyed the mining prop-

TEVIS v. RYAN.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

erties formerly of the Turquoise Company to the Tejon
Company.
The present action was commenced November 30,
1906, and, after repeated modifications of the pleadings,
came on for trial upon a complaint which, besides setting
up the above facts, averred that after two years from the
twenty-ninth day of November, 1902, had elapsed, and after
plaintiffs were informed that defendants had failed to sell
the 240,000 shares of the Turquoise Company for sufficient
funds to pay the money advanced by them to redeem the
property of the company from the sheriff's sale, and before
the action of the Western Company against the Turquoise
Company was' commenced in the California court, to wit,
on February 15, 1905, plaintiffs informed defendants that
they desired to be reinvested.- with their interest in the
property of the Turquoise Company and to be restored
to their interest therein the same as-before November 29,
1902, and informed defendants that they were then ready,
able, and willing to pay defendans four-sevenths of the
sum of $25,262.60 paid to redeem the property from the
sale of July 31, 1902; and that defendants ignored said
request. There were allegations of fraudulent conduct,
in support of which certain evidence was introduced,
but these allegations seem to have been abandoned; at
least the tridl judge submitted the case to the jury solely
upon the ground of a breach of the contract.
Mr. Edward H. Thomas, with whom Mr. Aldis B.
Browne, Mr. Alexander Britton, Mr. Evans Browne, Mr.
Ben Goodrich and Mr. A. C. Baker were on the brief, for
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Eugene S. Ives for defendants In error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The trial judge in submitting the case to the jury

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

adopted the following construction of the contract of
November 29, 1902: That it provided for a general scheme
to be carried out within the period of two years; that
control of the Turquoise Company was to be given to
defendants McKittrick and Tevis, and with a board of
directors of their own choosing they were to carry on the
business of the company, and within two years were to
carry out the plan for the rehabilitation of the company
according to the stipulations of the agreement; that they
did not guarantee successful results, but were simply to
use their best endeavors to carry out the plan; that if
there was a failure on their part to do the things contemplated within the two years, this of itself did not
raise any legal obligation on their part to the plaintiffs;
but that if at the end of the two years the scheme contemplated by the contract had not been accomplished,
then defendants agreed to reinvest plaintiffs with the
interest they had at the time of entering into the contract,
provided plaintiffs demanded that reinvestment. The
jury were instructed that they should first determine
whether at the expiration of the two years specified in the
contract the situation was such that defendants were
obligated to reinvest plaintiffs with the four-sevenths
interest in the company that they formerly held. That
if so, the next question was whether plaintiffs ever demanded that they should be so reinvested, for if there
was no demand there was no liability on the part of
defendants; but that if plaintiffs did make such demand
-within a reasonable time after the expiration of the two
years it was the duty of defendants to comply with it; that
certain evidence introduced to show a written demand
made at a time in the summer of 1906 should be rejected
because such demand, if made, came too late; but that if
the jury should find [as, in fact, certain other evidence
tended to show] that a demand was made on defendants
by plaintiffs a few months following the expiration of the

TEVIS v. RYAN.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

two years and in the early part of 1905, that was a reasonable time in which to ma:ke the demand. The further
instruction was that if there was a breach of the agreement by defendants in failing to reinvest plaintiffs as they
ought to have done, the next question was the amount of
the damages; and as to this, that what defendants agreed
to do was to put plaintiffs back as nearly as might be in the
situation they were in when the contract was made; that
at that time the property was about to be foreclosed, and
subsequently money was raised to redeem it from the
judgment, and the money thus used became a debt against
the company, and this should be considered by the jury,
because plaintiffs ought not to be put back in possession
of their interest in the property free and clear of any such
incumbrance as stood upon it when the contract was
made; "So if you should come to this question of damages
at all, you should ascertain the damages in this way:
You should ascertain the value of this mining propertythis property that was owned by the Turquoise Copper
Mining & Smelting Company-at the time the demand of
the Ryans to be reinvested was made, if any such demand
was made at all-ascertain first the value of that property.
Then deduct from that value the amount of this claim of
the Western Company which loaned this money, with
interest, which at that time amounted to at least $39,000.
Then take that balance, if there is any-the value of the
property, from which deduct the $39,000, and if there is
any balance left-that belongs to the plaintiffs and defendants in the proportion -that they owned the propertythat is, the Ryans four-sevenths and Tevis and McKittrick three-sevenths. So the Ryans would be entitled to
four-sevenths of the balance after you deduct from the
value of the property the amount of this Western Company's claim-this $39,001). So of course, it follows that
if the value of the property was not so much as $39,000
they would not be entitled to anything."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

There were no requests for particular instructions, and
no specific objection to the instructions as given.
In the Supreme Court of the Territory the principal
question raised was as to the correctness of the instruction
respecting the measure of damages. In passing upon this,
the appellate court interpreted the contract as binding
defendants (in the event of the failure of the scheme, and a
demand made for reinvestment) to turn over to plaintiffs,
not a four-sevenths interest in the mining property, but a
four-sevenths interest in the capital stock of the company.
At the same time it was held that the trial court, in apparently adopting as a measure of damages the foursevenths interest in the property of the corporation, did
not actually construe the reinvesting clause to extend to
the property or the mines of the corporation, but that
the instruction was tantamount to an instruction that
plaintiffs were entitled to the value of four-sevenths of the
capital stock, which was the equivalent of, and was to be
ascertained by determining from the evidence the value of,
four-sevenths of the net assets of the corporation. And
the appellate court held, as to this, that the result was
right, and hence the judgment ought not to be reversed,
though the instruction as given might be open to criticism
as to its form, and even though the jury might have based
their verdict upon an incorrect theory.
But it was held that the measure of damages as applied
by the trial court was erroneous in failing to deduct from
the valuation of the four-sevenths a proper allowance for
the 279,500 shares of stock of the Turquoise Company
that had been retained by the Ryans under the terms of,
the contract, and were still owned by them.
The court overruled certain minor contentions on the
one side and on the other, and, finding that the proximate
damage resulting from the breach of the contract was the
loss of the value of the stock that was agreed to be returned, and that the loss of the -value of the 279,500 shares

TEVIS v. RYAN.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

retained (attributed, as it was, to subsequent mismanagement of the company by Tevis and McKittrick), was only
a remote and indirect consequence, and not such as was in
contemplation at the time of the making of the contract as
a probable result of such breach, held that there was error
(and error only) in including in the allowance of damages
the loss of the value of the retained shares. The court
further found that the evidence and the verdict of the jury
afforded a basis for computing the correct sum to be
awarded, in that the jury by its verdict found in effect that
the value of the entire capital stock of 1,000,000 shares of.
the Turquoise Company at the time of the breach of the
contract was $231,000 (four-sevenths of this sum being
$132,000, the amount of the verdict). Taking foursevenths of the entire number of shares (or 571,428 shares)
and deducting the 279,500 shares retained by the plaintiffs,
there remained 291,928 shares, which, computed upon
the basis afforded by tha verdict of the jury, yielded
$67,435.37 as the proper amount of the recovery. And
under the provisions of paragraph 1588 of the Revised
Statutes of 1901 and the practice approved in Kennon v.
Gilmer, 131 U. S. 22, 29, plaintiffs were put to their election
to either remit the excess beyond that amount or submit
to a new trial, with the result mentioned in the prefatory
statement.
It is. now contended by plaintiffs in error that the interpretation of the contract adopted by the trial court, and
followed by the appellate court respecting the question of
liability, is unwarranted by anything in the language of
the instrument. It is said that Tevis and McKittrick did
not agree, as the trial court held they did, that they personally would usetheir best endeavors to do the things that
were in contemplation. It is said that the directors of the
eorporation were to fix the -price of the treasury stock and
to use the money derived from its sale in the manner
indicated; that Tevis and McKittrick were to be merely

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

the agents of the board of directors (if that board should so
determine), without authority to fix the price of the stock,
pay the judgment, or use the money to develop claims or
in any other way for the company's benefit; that if the
directors should fail to give such authority, Tevis and
McKittrick could do nothing; that they did not covenant
or agree that the stock would sell for any particular price,
much less that it would sell for $20,000 more than the
amount of the judgment; that the terms of the agreement
show merely the expectations of the parties, which as the
event befell were not realized, and that the agreement and
all its stipulations were conditional upon the sale of the
stock for a sufficient price to meet the purposes indicated.
The insistence is that the Ryans simply sold and transferred a controlling interest in the stock in consideration
of a future authority to sell the treasury stock for a price
in no wise fixed, and that there was no agreement that
Tevis and McKittrick were to contribute or pay anything
to the company; that as between the corporation and the
shareholders the 240,000 shares of treasury stock were
contributed outright 'to the corporation, which by the
terms of the agreement had the right to sell it; and that
Tevis and McKittrick did not undertake to bind the
company to return or pay for this stock.
The gist of the argument seems to be that Tevis and
McKittrick incurred no personal liability except possibly
to see to it that the capital stock of the company was
changed from its original capitalization (100,000 shares,
of the par value of $10 each), to 1,000,000 shares, of -the
par value of $1 each, that 240,000 of the new shares were
placed in the treasury of the company, and that the board
bf directors of the corporation fixed a price for the sale of
these shares.
The agreement shows on its face that it was not prepared by a skilled person; and it requires construction.
But we think it was binding upon defendants, at least to

TEVIS v, RYAN.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the extent that the decision of the territorial Supreme
Court gave effect to it.
The argument for plaintiffs in error attributes too little
force to what is referred to as the "reinvestment clause,"
viz: "The parties of the first part shall have a term of two
years in which to comply with all the requirements of this
contract. Should they fail or refuse to comply with all
the agreements and stipulations herein mentioned within
the period aforesaid, then this agreement shall become
null and void and of no effect, otherwise to remain in full
force and effect. Should this- contract be annulled by
any failure of the parties of the first part to do any and all
things herein required of them, then the interest of the
second parties shall reinvest in them in the same proportion and ratio as they held and were possessed of at the
signing of this agreement." This imports, at-least, that if
the project for rehabilitating the company, ,in contemplation of which the Ryans divested themselves for the time
of the majority interest amd control of the company,
should come to naught, they should be reinvested with
the same proportion of the stock of the company that they
had held before. But the company was not named as a
party to the agreement, and, even if treated as a party
by implication, could hardly be supposed to covenant for a
-transfer of the outstanding stock. Hence the covenant
quoted could bind Tevis and McKittrick, only, who
themselves were to be placed in control of the company,
and of the very stock that would need to be retransferred
in order to fulfill the stipulation. Consequently, it imports a personal responsibility on their part to see to it
that the Ryans were "reinvested" in accordapce with
the terms of the covenant.
It is insisted that if certain declarations of McKittrick,
said to have been made during the negotiations that im-,
mediately preceded the signing of the contract, be eliminated, there is nothing ia the terms of the instrument,
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

or in the circumstances under which it was made, to warrant the interpretation adopted. In this view we do not
concur, for reasons already indicated.
The declarations referred to are also said to have been
erroneously admitted. They were made by McKittrick in
the absence of Tevis at the interview of November 29,
1902. Jepp Ryan, one of the plaintiffs, being called as a
witness and asked to state the conversation between
McKittrick and himself testified: "He went out and had an
agreement made and brought it up into our room. Now,
he says, 'Boys, Mr. Tevis is a multi-millionaire and rich
and influential, and by putting him in control of this
property, or giving us control of the property, we will try
to handle it so each of us can get all our money back.' I
says, 'Captain, suppose you don't handle it, where do we
come in.' He says, 'If we don't sell the stock we will
return to you the property the same as it is to-day."' It
appeared that this was after the contract was drawn up
and before it was signed. A motion was made to strike
it out "because the contract speaks for itself." This, the
only objection, was overruled. Each of the other plaintiffs
was permitted, over the like objection, to give evidence of
a similar import.
If the action had been based alone upon the written
instrument there would be force in the objection to the
introduction of parol evidence of previous promises inconsistent with the terms of the writing. But the action
was not so limited. The pleading upon which the parties
went to trial (the third cause of action in the third amended
and supplemental complaint) relied not upon the contract
alone, but also upon alleged fraudulent conduct, beginning
with representations of the abundant means and property
of the defendants, on the strength of which, as was said,
the plaintiffs entered into the written agreement, and
followed by alleged fraudulent use of the control of the
company that was turned over to Tevis and McKittrick

TEVIS v. RYAN.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in pursuance of the terms of the agreement. The evidence of the oral declarations of McKittrick was admissible upon this question; and the fact that the allegations
of fraud were afterwards abandoned, or were held by the
trial court not to be sufficiently supported, does not render
erroneous the previous rulings upon the admissibility of
the evidence referred to.
For like reasons we find no error in the testimony to
show that the Ryans were not notified, until long afterwards, that suit had been brought by the Western Company against the Turquoise Company in California, or
that suit had been brought upon this judgment in Cochise
County, Arizona. Assuming, for argument's sake, that
defendants were under no duty to keep plaintiffs informed
in regard to the status of the company, and that the contract did not require that they should do so, it nevertheless was a circumstance of more or less significance upon
the question of fraud, that events of such consequence
to the company were not communicated to parties who
held legal and equitable rights such as the Ryans concededly held.
It is contended that the appellate court erred in holding
that there was sufficient evidence to show a demand for
reinvestment made by plaintiffs upon defendants. The
complaint alleged two such demands, one on February 15,
1905, the other on August 26, 1906. Plaintiffs introduced
testimony in regard to an oral demand claimed to have
been made in May, 1905, and it was upon this alone that
the trial court permitted the case to go to the jury. It is
contended that this demand was insufficient because not
made in proper form, nor made in a proper place, and made
only upon McKittrick, and not upon Tevis also. Assuming, as both courts held, that a special demand was necessary, it seems to us that the oral demand referred to is
not open to the objections made to it. McKittrick and
Tevis were joint contractors, so that notice to either was

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

notice to both. And there is no doubt that it was sufficiently specific to fairly warn defendants that they were
called upon to perform their engagement under the reinvestment clause.
Objection is made to the trial court's ruling, sustained
by the appellate court, admitting in evidence a written
demand served by plaintiffs upon defendants, marked
Exhibit "K." This was a letter, undated, but apparently
written after July 11, i906, and stated to have been
served upon defendants in September of that year. Its
admission was not objected to on the ground that it did
not evidence a proper demand (this, indeed, was admitted)
nor on the ground that the demand came too late, but only
because of other matters contained in the letter. The trial
court having refused to exclude it as evidence, subsequently instructed the jury that as a demand it came too
late to furnish a proper support for 'plaintiffs' cause of
action. The contention now is that because of self-serving
declarations contained in it, Exhibit "K," ought to have
been excluded entirely from the consideration of the jury,
and that it was likewise inadmissible because it contained
veiled charges of fraud on the part of the defendants, and
also offers of compromise made by the plaintiffs. But we

have already pointed out that the action was in part
based upon fraud, and we are not prepared to say that the
fact that Exhibit "K" contained insinuations attributing
fraud to defendants, coupled with the fact that defendants
did not respond to it, would not in some degree tend to
support this charge. It is sufficient, however, to say that
the paper was introduced as evidence of a demand, and
was admissible for that purpose (in the absence of objection based on the time of its delivery), since it contained a
notice that plaintiffs insisted that defendants should comply, as well as might then be done, with the provisions of
the agreement. The fact (if it were a fact) that it also
contained matters irrelevant to the demand would not

TEVIS v. RYAN.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

render the document inadmissible. The proper course
would have been for defendants to request an instruction
limiting the effect that should be given to it by the jury;
or, if intending to insist that it came too late to constitute
a proper demand, then to exclude the paper from consideration. The present objection was not properly raised
at the trial.
It is insisted that the court erred in holding that plaintiffs, under the averments of the complaint, were entitled
to recover the value of a four-sevenths interest in the stock
of the company. The basis of the objection is that such a
recovery was inconsistent with the cause of action set
forth in the complaint, which, it is said, sought a recovery
'of a four-sevenths interest in the property of the Turquoise
Company, and-not the value of four-sevenths of its share
stock. This is a mere question of pleading, and is sufficiently disposed of in the opinion of the appellate court
below.
It is contended that there was error in sustaining the
trial court's instruction that the measure of plaintiff's
damages was four-sevenths of the value of the mining
company's property, minus the indebtedness to the
Western Company. As already shown, however, the
appellate court did not sustain this interpretation of the
contract, but in terms rejected it; at the same time holding that the trial court, in referring to the value of a foursevenths interest in the property of the corporation as a
test for the measure of damages, in effect reached a correct result through the employment of inaccurate phraseology, and that although the jury iay have found their
verdict upon an incorrect theory, the error was harmless
and the judgment should not be reversed, because under
the evidence the rule adopted made no substantial difference in the result, saving as to the 279,500 shares, and as
to this the error was easily cured by applying the proper
correction as above mentioned.
VOL. CCXXXJu-19

OCTOBER TERM. 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Finally, the point is made that, assuming the alleged
error of the trial court could be cured by a remittitur,
the ruling of the Supreme Court'and the remittitur as
entered accounted only for the 279,500 shares that were
retained by the Ryans under the contract; and it is insisted
that the 200,000 shares of trust stock to which McKittrick
held the legal title, with the 240,000 shares of treasury
stock, the legal title to which was in the company and over
which defendants had no control except in their capacity
as directors of the company, should have been deducted
from the entire share capital of 1,000,000 shares, and the
plaintiffs allowed only the value of four-sevenths of the
difference, less the 279,500 shares that they retained.
Without spending further time in discussion, we will
simply say that in our opinion the view suggested is inconsistent with the terms of the covenant, which was that
in the contingency provided for "the interest of the second
parties shall reinvest in them in the same proportion and
ratio as they held and were possessed of at the signing
of this agreement." This, we think, conteinplated that
they should be restored to the same proportionate interest
that they held prior to the making of the agreement.
In affirming the judgment we are not to be understood
as holding that the rulings of the court below were indubitably correct. In dealing with the instructions of the
trial court respecting the mode of ascertaining the damages, and in permitting the filing of a remittitur and affirming the judgment for the residue of the verdict, the
Supreme Court of the Territory acted under the Revised
Statutes of Arizona, f901, paragraph 1588, which provides,
in substance, that there shall be no reversal on an appeal
or writ of error for want of form provided sufficient matter
or substance be contained in the record to enable the court
to decide the cause upon its merits; and also provides for
remitting excessive damages pending the appeal. The record in the present case came fairly within the purview of

LEWIS- v. FRICK.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

this provision. And we are not disposed to lightly disturb the decision of a territorial Supreme Court turning
so largely, as this does, upon the local practice. Phenix
Ry. Co. v. Landis, 231 U. S. 578, 579; Work v. United
Globe Mines, 231 U. S. 595, 599; Montoya v. Gonzales, 232
U. S. 375, 376.
We have dealt with all the questions that appear to
have been raised in the Supreme Court of the Territory.
Others we need not notice. Gila Valley Ry. Co. v. Hall,
232 U. S. 94, 98.
Judgment affirmed.

LEWIS v. FRICK, UNITED STATES IMMIGRATION INSPECTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 208. Argued January 28, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.
Where an alien enters this country more than once, the period of three
years from entry prescribed by §§ 20 and 21 of the Alien Immigration
Law runs not from the date when he first entered the country, but
from the time of his entry under conditions within the prohibitions
of the act. Lapina v. Williams, 232 U. S. 78.
Where, as in this case, there wai; evidence sufficient to justify the
Secretary of Commerce and Labor in concluding that the alien was
within the prohibitions of the Alien Immigration Act, and the hearing was fairly conducted, the decision of the Secretary is binding
upon the courts.
Under § 2 of the Alien Immigration Act of 1907 as amended in 1910,
it is an offense for any person, citizen or alien, to bring into this
country an alien for the purposes of prostitution, and any alien so
doing or attempting to do may be excluded on entry or deported
after entry.
A conviction under § 3 of the Alien Immigration Act is not necessary

