OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

DE

233 U. S.

BEARN v. SAFE DEPOSIT AND TRUST COMPANY OF BALTIMORE.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 301.

Argued March 17, 18, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

This court takes judicial notice of its own records; and, if not res
judicata,may, on the principles of stare decisis, examine and consider
decisions in former cases affecting the consideration of one under
advisement, Bienville Water Supply Co. v. Mobile, 186 U. S. 212. It
may take judicial notice of its own records in regard to proceedings
formerly had by a party to a proceeding before it. Dimmick v.
\
Tompkins., 194 U. S. 194.
of this court that the constitutional
records
It appearing from the
questions alleged as the sole basis for a direct review of the judgment
of the District C~kurt, have been heretofore decided to be so wanting
in merit as not to afford ground for jurisdiction, the appeal in this
case is dismissed.
It is in the interest of the Republic that litigation should come to an
end.
In this case the state court has sustained attachments as authorized
by state law.
It is within the power of the State to authorize a foreign creditor to
attach bonds within the State deposited under directions of the state
court in the exercise of its lawful powers, and which cannot be removed from the State without the authority of the state court.
Even though such bonds may have been registered by a prior order of
the state court, it may be the duty of that court under the state law
to remove such registry in order to protect attaching creditors.
An owner of bonds deposited in a safe deposit vault under an order of
the state court, held, in this case, not to have been deprived of his
property without due process of law by the attachment of such bonds
under process issued by the state court in accordance with the law
of the State as determined by its highest court.

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court of
direct appeals from the District Court on constitutional
questions, are stated in the opinion.
THE

DE

233 U. S.

BEARN v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
Argument for Appellant.

Mr. George C. Holt and Mr. Maurice Leon for appellant:
Appellant was entitled to show in the Federal court
below that a state court sitting in the same State had not
acquired jurisdiction of the bonds although the' sheriff
had filed a return stating that they had been seized.
Cooper v. Newell, 173 U. S. 555.
Upon the conceded facts the state -court had not acquired prior jurisdiction ov :r the bonds. Bates v. N. 0., J.
& G. N. R. Co., 4 Abb. Pr. 72; S. C., 13 How. Pr. 516;
Smith v. Kennebec &c. Co., 45 Maine, 547; Bowker v.
Hill, 60 Maine, 172; Buck v. Beach, 206 U. S. 392; Tweedy
v. Bogart, 56 Connecticut, 15; Ward v. Boyce, 152 N. Y.
191; Simpson v. Jersey City ContractingCo., 165 N. Y. 193.
Treating the bonds as property capable of transfer by
manual delivery, it is nevertheless clear that as they were not
seized, the state court did not gain jurisdiction over them.
Cooperv. Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308; Pelhamv. Rose, 9 Wall. 103.
No lien was acquired by a seizure which consisted merely
in the filing of a return in the state court without caption
of the bonds or anything amounting to physical taking
into custody. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 730.
The Federal court, having acquired prior jurisdiction by
process served in personam on the lessor and on the
nominal lessees of the box as parties defendant in an
original suit to determine the status of the leasehold of
the safe deposit box should protect its jurisdiction to
render a decree by preventing interference with the res.
Section 265, Judicial Code; Freemanv. Howe, 24 How. 450,
461; Ricker Land Co. v. Miller & Lux, 218 U. S. 258; Helm
v. Zarecor, 222 U. S. 32.
The appellant is deprived of his property by a decree
giving effect to state couit proceedings which are not supported by jurisdiction acquired either inrem or in personam
according to the settled rules of jurisprudence and which,
under the decisions of this court, do not constitute "due
process of law."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Mr. Charles McH. Howard, with whom Mr. Albert C.
Ritchie and Mr. Edward Duffy were on the brief, for appellees:
At the time of the filing of the bill these bonds were all
subject to several attachments, issued out of the Superior
Court of Baltimore City in suits instituted against the
plaintiff by his creditors; shortly after filing the bill in
this case judgments were rendered in those attachment
suits, condemning these bonds. Those judgments are now
final.
There are two cardinal principles in law which apply to
this case and render the bill demurrable: One, that indispensable parties to a decree (in this case the attaching
creditors) must be made parties; Foster, Fed. Pr. (4th ed.),
§§ 53, 60; the other, that where a state court has first
acquired jurisdiction, the United States court will not
act. Id., § 9.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
In this case the court below sustained a demurrer to the
complaint and this direct appeal was then taken on the
theory that rights Under the Constitution of the United
States were involved.' To determine whether there is a
constitutional question, and, if so, to decide it, requires a
statement of the averments of the complaint.
The complainant was the appellant and the defendants
were the Safe Deposit & Trust Company of Baltimore,
American Bonding Company of Baltimore, Alexander
Brown & Sons, a commercial firm established in Baltimore
and Theodore P. Weis, sheriff of the city of Baltimore. It
was alleged that the complainant was the owner of coupon
bonds of $29,000 issued by the New York Central &
Hudson River R. R. and of $156,000 of bonds issued by the
Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis & Omaha Railway Coin-

DE

233 U. S.

BEARN v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

pany, a specified amount of the bonds being registered in
the name of a minor son and a stated amount being likewise registered in the name of a minor daughter of the
complainant. It was averred that the bonds were in a
safe deposit box in the vault of the defendant Safe Deposit
& Trust Company, "where your orator, by means of a
guardianship proceeding in the Orphans' Court of Baltimore which has since been declared illegal and void, was
induced to place said bonds, said box being rented and
standing recorded on the books of the said safe deposit
Company in the joint names of Messrs. Alexander Brown
& Sons and the American Bonding Company; that for the
purposes of such guardianaship proceeding your orator
had in the year 1908 been required by the said American
Bonding Company as surety on your orator's bond in said
guardianship proceeding to agree not to remove the said
bonds without the consent of said surety; and had further
been required by said surety to consent that said surety
and said Alexander Brown and Sons should only have
joint access to said bonds and the same for the sole purpose of enabling said Alexander Brown and Sons to remove interest warrants from said bonds during the said
guardianship and forward the same for payment to the
City of New York as they became due.
"That in December 1909, the Court of Appeals of
Maryland by a decree founded upon personal jurisdiction
over all the parties to said guardianship proceeding declared the said guardianship and certain releases given by
your orator in connection therewith null and void; that
by said adjudication, the said suretyship of the said
American Bonding Company of Baltimore was extinguished and that neither said Bonding Company nor said
Alexander Brown and Sons have since said adjudication
had any right of access to or other right or control whatsoever in, over or as to said safe deposit box and the contents of the same and said adjudication has established the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

lack of jurisdiction over said property on the part of the
Courts which had so undertaken to deal therewith.
"That your orator is entitled to the immediate possession of the said evidences of debt, to wit: registered bonds
for all purposes and is in urgent need of them for the purpose of causing said debts to be transferred upon the
books of the debtor corporations in the State of New York
to the name of your orator or at his option of surrendering
said bonds to the said corporations respectively in exchange for the issuance to your orator of other evidences of
said debts, to take the place of said bonds now so registered, as he would have done in the year 1908 but for the
illegal guardianship proceeding already referred to.
"That your orator has been since the month of October
1908, and still is the true lessee of said box the rental of
which has been paid with funds furnished by your orator
and as above shown at all times owner of the contents
thereof; that said Alexander Brown and Sons have not
been and are not in any manner responsible either for said
box or for the custody of the contents of the same or in or
for any matter growing out of the arrangement under
which said box was rented and said registered bonds
placed therein; that as to the American Bonding Company, it has had no connection with or interest in the rental
of said box or the custody of the contents of the same
except as surety of your orator upon his bond as guardian,
which said suretyship was undertaken in the aforesaid
illegal guardianship proceeding which has been declared
void and set aside."
After reciting the provisions of a memorandum agreement between the plaintiff and defendant Brown & Sons
and the Bonding Company by which the joint access to the
box in which the bonds were deposited should be had for
the purpose of cutting the coupons from the bonds and
turning them over to the complainant, it was averred that,
neither the American Bonding Company nor Brown &

DE BEARN v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
233 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Sons set up any interest antagonistic to the complainant
but that he was unable to get access to the box where the
bonds were deposited without a decree authorizing him
to do so and that such a decree was necessary for the
protection of Brown and Sons and the Safe Deposit &
Trust Company. It was then averred that the defendant
sheriff of Baltimore County "has filed in the Superior
Court of Baltimore, a Court of law of the State of Maryland, returns to certain writs of attachment stating that
he has seized the aforesaid particular debts under such
writs issued out of said Court in five suits brought by
divers non-residents of the State of Maryland against your
orator upon the ground of your orator's non-residence in
said State to recover upon divers claims alleged to have
arisen out of said State; that the said proceedings of the
said defendant Sheriff under said writs purporting under
color of the attachment statutes of Maryland and of said
writs to seize said debts which are owned by your orator in
the State of New York, are illegal and void; that your
orator has not been personally served with process in
said suits; that said debts have not and cannot be seized
under said writs not being property in the State of Maryland; that the defendant sheriff by his said proceedings
under said writs has at-tempted and is attempting to
interfere with said box arid its contents ard to encumber
your orator's title to said particular debts and has sought
and is seeking to deprive your orator of his property and of
the effective control thereof and of the use thereof without
due process of law and to deprive your orator of the equal
protection of the laws in violation of the Constitution of
the United States and particularly of Section I of the
fourteenth amendment thereto; that said Superior Court
of Baltimore City has no personal jurisdiction over your
orator and has not gained jurisdiction over the aforesaid
box or its contents or over the debts owned by your orator
in the State of New York, and the said defendant Sheriff

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

has no lawful authority to impede or seek to impede or
hinder your orator in the premises nor to do any act
tending to defeat your orator's control of the said debts or
the evidences thereof or to prevent your orator from securing the relief applied for herein, and which this Court has
jurisdiction to grant your orator, and that the said unlawful proceedings of the said Sheriff under color of said
writs will, if persisted in, constitute an unlawful interference with the jurisdiction of this Court in the premises."
The prayer was that the complainant be decreed to be
the lessee of the safe deposit box and entitled to access to
the same and to withdraw the contents and that the
sheriff be enjoined from in any way interfering with the
accomplishment of these results.
The demurrers which were filed to this bill by the respective defendants were based first upon the absence of
necessary parties, that is, those in whose behalf the attachments had been issued as referred to in the bill and second
because, as the bill disclosed that the bonds referred to in
the bill were under levy by attachment issued out of the
state court, there was no power inthe United States court
to interfere. The court below rested its decree sustaining
the demurrer and dismissing the bill on both these grounds.
In disposing of the latter the court said: "This Court may
not take anything, be it safe deposit boxes, bonds, evidences of debt or what not, out of the custody of a state
Court. The complainant does not question the general
rule. He claims that it is not here applicable. He says
that while the Superior Court has jurisdiction to issue
writs of non-resident attachment, the things which its
officer has sought to attach in this case are not attachable.
It follows, he argues, that this Court may and must when
properly applied to altogether ignore such void proceedings.
"The Court of Appeals of Maryland has expressly de-

DE

233 U. S.

BEARN v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

cided that a Court of Equity may not assume to declare
such attachments altogether nugatory. de Bearn v.
Winans, 115 Maryland, 131).
"See also.: de Bearm v. Winans, 115 Maryland, 604; de
Beam v. de Beam, 115 Maryland, 668; de Beam v. de
Beam, 115 Maryland, 685.
"It was there decided that such evidences of debt or
bonds as are involved in the pending case may be attached
in Maryland.
"Neither the Superior Court of Baltimore City nor this
Court have any control over the other. If it should be
here held that the things in question were not attachable,
that Court would be under no obligation to subordinate
its judgment to that of this Court. A conflict of jurisdiction would follow. The rule that one Court of concurrent
jurisdiction may not attempt to exercise control over anything which has previously come into and still is in the control of the other Court is intended to render such unseemly
controversies impossible. The facts of this case bring it
within both the letter and spirit of that rule."
After further pointing out that ample remedy Would
be afforded the complainant by asserting his constitutional
rights, if any, in the state court where the attachments
were pending, and, if such Federal rights were denied, by
prosecuting error to this court, the court observed:
"Technically, as this is a hearing upon demurrer, this
Court may not be entitled to take judicial notice of the
fact that to all the cases in 111 and 115 Maryland cited
in this opinion the complainant was a party. The conclusions herein stated have been reached, therefore, without
considering whether the question as to whether a court of
equity may interfere with these attachment proceedings
and whether the evidences of debt are under the circumstances of this case attachable have been decided contrary
to the contention of the complainant in a case to which he
was a party and which had reference to the very attach-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

ment proceedings which he seeks here to have declared
invalid."
We are not constrained by the limitations which the
lower court considered prevented it from taking notice
of the judicial proceedings in the courts of Maryland in
which the attachments issued. We say this because, as
was declared in Bienville Water Supply Company v. Mobile,
186 U. S. 212, 217: "We take judicial notice of our own
records, and, if not res judicata, we may, on the principle
of stare decisis, rightfully examine and consider the decision in the former case as affecting the consideration of
this;" and again, as further declared in Dimmick v.
Tompkins, 194 U. S.540, 548: "The court has the right
to examine its own records and take judicial notice thereof
in regard to proceedings formerly had therein by one of
the parties to the proceedings now before it." Availing
of this power and making reference to the records of this
court, it appears that the controversy as to the validity of
the attachments with which the appeal before us is concerned has on three different occasions been here considered. de Beam v. de Bearm, 225 U. S. 695; de Bearm v.
de Beam, 231 U. S. 741; de Beam v. Winans, 232 U. S. 719.
In the first, an attempt to bring a controversy on the subject here was dismissed because of its prematurity. In
the other two cases it appears that at the time the bill in
this case was filed, the complainant was engaged in litigating in the courts of the State of Maryland the very grounds
of opposition to the attachments which were made the
basis of the bill in this case and that after filing such bill he
continued such litigation in the state courts, and when,
after a full consideration of his grounds of complaint,
both state and Federal in the court of last resort of Maryland there were decisions against him, error was prosecuted
from this court because of the asserted existence of the
Federal rights which were alleged in the bill now before us.
The records disclose that in both cases motions to dismiss

DE

233 U. S.

BEARN v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

for want of jurisdiction were sustained by per curiam
opinions, reference being made in the one case (231 U. S.
741) to authorities upholding the doctrine that no power
to review exists in a case where although there is a Federal
question, the conclusion of the court below rests upon a
non-Federal or state ground completely adequate to sustain it, and in the other case (232 U. S. 719) the motion to
dismiss was sustained by authorities to the same effect
and additionally upon authorities establishing the rule
that a wholly frivolous and unsubstantial Federal question
was not adequate to give jurisdiction.
Indeed, the record in the case last cited establishes that
in that proceeding the appellant filed a pleading in which
he expressly set up the pendency of the bill in the United
States court which is now before us and urged the supposed
Federal rights upon which ';he bill was rested as a basis
for relief.
From these considerations it obviously comes to pass
that the supposed constitutional questions upon which
our right to directly review the action of the court below
can alone rest, have been already here twice decided to
be so wanting in merit as not to afford ground for jurisdiction. It is true that the cases referred to involved the
jurisdiction to review the judgments of the court of last
resort of the State of Maryland under § 237 of the Judicial
Code, but that difference affords no reason for distinguishing this case from the previous cases, since it is impossible
to conceive that the assertion of an alleged constitutional
right which was decided to be so unsubstantial and frivolous as to afford no ground to review the action of the
state court of Maryland concerning the attachments
should yet now be held to be of sufficient merit to give
jurisdiction to directly review the action of the court below
in refusing to interfere with the same attachments. Applying the previous cases, therefore, it plainly follows that
we have no jurisdiction on this writ of error, and therefore
VOL. ccxxxiii-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

our duty is to dismiss. Before, however, discharging
that duty without going into the labyrinth of pleadings, of
motions, of supplementary papers, etc., etc., with which
this and the previous records before us abound and by
the use of which this case has been taken many times to
the court of"last resort of Maryland and is here now for
the fourth time, as it is in the "interest of the Republic
that litigation should come to an end," we pause to say
that considering again the whole field and weighing every
Federal right asseAed, we see no ground for doubting the
correctness of the conclusions which constrained us to
hold that the controversies presented in the previous cases
were beyond our cognizance. -Briefly speaking, it is to be
observed that the error which in'this and the previous
cases underlies all the assumptions of Federal right arises
from disregarding the distinction between a controversy
as to whether the attachments were authorized by the
law of the State and the contention as to the power in the
State to have given authority to its courts to issue such
attachments. The two are widely different, the one being
concerned with what state action has been taken and the
other with the power of the State to confer authority to
take such action. Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674.
As to the first, there is no room for controversy, since the
decisions of the Maryland court of last resort have explicitly declared not only that the attachments were authorized by the state law, but that as the result of the
authority to issue them there was imposed upon the state
courts the duty under the facts disclosed by the record to
exert their authority to the full extent required to protect
the rights of the attaching creditors by seeing to it that
the property attached which was in the custody of the
court and subject to its control be not permitted to be
removed or taken out of the reach of that authority for
the purpose of frustrating the rights arising from the attachments. The second, the question of power of the

DE

233 U.S.

BEARN v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

State of Maryland to authorize its courts to perform the
duty thus cast upon them, would seem to be free from all
possible doubt in view of the following facts, (a) that the
coupon bonds were in the State deposited under the directions of the state court in the exercise of admittedly lawful powers, (b), that in that situation it was impossible
to remove them from the State without obtaining the
authority of the state courts, an authority which was
unaffected by the fact that the bonds were registered,
since they were so registered, solely because of the previous
action of the state court, an action which the court of
last resort of Maryland decided was no obstacle to the
attachments of the bonds, since the)effect of the state law
empowering the attachments was to impose upon the
court the duty of seeing to it that this registry should be
removed to the extent necessary to protect the rights of
attaching creditors. And the force of these suggestions
is illustrated by bearing in mind that the denial of all
judicial power by the State over the bonds by way of
attachment is asserted by the appellant in a proceeding
in which he is the actor invoking the exertion of the state
judicial power for the purpose of enabling him to obtain
possession of the bonds and do away with the effect of
the previous state decree concerning the deposit and
registry of the same.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

