OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

tinguishing between that part of the damage which is
attributable to the gases and smoke emitted from the
locomotive engines while operated upon the railroad
tracks adjacent to plaintiff's land, and with respect to
which we hold there is no right of action, and damage that
arises from the gases and smoke that issue from the tunnel,
and with respect to which there appears to be a right of
action. How this difficulty is to be solved in order to
determine the damages that should be assessed in this
action, or the compensation that should be awarded in
case condemnation proceedings are resorted to, is a question not presented by this record, and upon which, therefore, no opinion is expressed.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded to the Court of
Appeals, with directions to reverse the judqment of the
Supreme Court of the District and remand the cause to
that court with directions for a new trial, and for
further proceedings in accordance with the views above
expressed.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

dissents.

GREEN v. MENOMINEE TRIBE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 285.

Argued March 13, 16, 1914.-Decided May 11, 1914.

Section 2 of the act of May 29, 1908, c. 216, 35 Stat. 144, conferring
jurisdiction on the Court of Claims to hear and determine claims of
certain Indian traders against the Menominee Tribe of Indians and
certain members thereof, created no new right in favor of such traders
except removal of the bar of limitations, and gave no right to she the
United States or any member of the Tribe in his individual capacity

GREEN v. MENOMINEE TRIBE.
233 U. S.

Argument fow Appellant.

as disassociated from his dependent condition as an Indian subject.
A contract by a tribe of Indians to guarantee payment of supplies to
individual members thereof must conform to § 2103, Rev. Stat.
A claim for lumber equipment furnished to individual members of a
tribe of Indians on the guarantee of the Tribe based on an agreement
that the proceeds of the lumber cut should, to the extent permitted
by the Government, pass through the hands of an agent and be
applied to payment for the equipment cannot be enforced, under the
act of May 29, 1908, against the Tribe or the Indians as members
thereof or the United States when it appears that such proceeds of
the lumber were collected by the agent and misapplied.
The right of a licensed Indian trader to deal with Indian tribes and
individual Indians does not extend to making unlawful contracts.
47 Ct. Cl. 281, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve a claim against. the Menominee
Tribe for supplies furnished to individual members of the
Tribe and the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to consider such claim under the act of May 29, 1908, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. L. T. Michener, with whom Mr. P. G. Michener
and Mr. C. F. Dillett were on the brief, for appellant:
Full jurisdiction was conferred on the Court of Claims
by § 2, act of May 29, 1908, 35 Stat. 444.
Appellant had the right to make the United States a
party defendant to this action.
Congress had power to confer jurisdiction on the Court
of Claims to adjudicate this case, even if the Indians were
and are citizens of the United States.
The Secretary of the Interior aid other officers have
broad powers in dealing with Indian affairs.
The statutes conferred on the traders the right to trade
with the Indians.
The agreement sued on related to dead and down timber and was made lawfully.
The petition alleges facts sufficient to-constitute a cause
of action.

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

233 U. S.

Rev. Stat., § 2103, does not apply to the. contract in
the case at bar.
In support of these contenrtions, see Blackfeather v.
United States, 155 U. S. 180, and 190 U. S. 368; Braden's
Case, 16 Ct. Cis. 389; Campbell v. Holt, 115 U. S. 620;
Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294; Clark v.
United States, 95 U. S. 539; Dahlgren's Case, 16 Ct. Cis.
30; Delaware Indians v. Cherokee Nation, 193 U. S. 127;
Ex parte Wall, 107 U. S. 265; Journeycake v. Cherokee
Nation, 155 U. S. 196; La Abra Mining Co. v. United States,
175 U. S. 423; Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553; McElrathv. United States, 102 U. S. 426; Navarre'sCase, 33 Ct.
Cis. 235; 173 U. S. 77; Neal's Case, 14 Ct. Cis. 280; Nor. Pac.
R. R. Co. v. Lewis, 162 U. S. 366; Roberts v. United States,
92 U. S. 539; Sac and Fox Indians Case, 220 U. S. 481;
Tiger v. West. Invest. Co., 221 U. S. 286; Townsend v. Little,
109 U. S. 504; United States v. Celestine, 215 U. S. 278;
United States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591; United States v. Nix,
189 U. S. 199; United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 278.
Mr, Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the United
States:
Appellant has attempted to set up a new and different
agreement in his amended petition.
The United States have not been properly made a party
defendant.
Congress has no power to refer controversies between
residents of the same State to the Court of Claims. Congress has no power to waive the statute of limitations in this case.
Service of notice was necessary in order to give Court
of Claims jurisdiction of the persons of defendants.
Property rights of individual Menominee Indians are
protected by state .laws of Wisconsin.
Individual tribal Indians have the right to sue and be
sued in the courts of States where they reside.

GREEN v. MENOMINEE TRIBE.
233 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

There is no liability on the tribe under an oral agreement.
The tribe is not liable for the negligence or torts of the
Indian agent.
In support of these cDntentions, see Alter's Appeal,
67 Pa. St. 34; 15 Am. & Eng. Ency., 2d ed., 11, 12; Brawn
v. United States, 44 Ct. C]s. 283, 311; Bank of Columbia v.
Okely, 4 Wheat. 234, 242; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat.
264, 293; Clement v. Sigur, 29 La. Ann. 798, 802;'Ex parte
Wall, 107 U. S. 265, 289; Felix v. Patrick, 145 U. S. 317,
332; Finn v. United States, 123 U. S. 227; Forbesv. Mitchell,
1 J. J. Marsh. 440, 441; Green v. Menominee Indians, 46
Ct. Cls. 68, and 47 Ct. Cls. 281; Gho v. Julles, 1 Wash.
Ter. 325, 329; Godfroy v. Scott, 70 Indiana, 259; Hitchcock
v. United States, 22 App. D. C. 275; Hite v. Hite, 2 Rand,
409, 417; Ingraham v. Ward, 56 Kansas, 550; Justices v.
Murray, 9 Wall. 274, 287; Ke-tuc-e-mun-guah v. McClure,
122 Indiana, 541; Langford v. United States, 101 U. S. 341,
345; La Abra Mining Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 423;
Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land Co., 18 How. 272, 276;
McElrath v. United States, 102 U. S. 426, 439; Palairet's
Appeal, 67 Pa. St. 479; Rubideaux v. Vallie, 12 Kansas,
38, 52; Stacy v. La Belle, 99 Wisconsin, 520, 524; Schick v.
United States, 195 U. S. 71, 72; Swartzel v. Rogers, 31 Kansas, 374; Stewart v. United States, 206 U. S. 185; United
States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375; United States v. Klein, 13
Wall. 128; United States v. Flournoy, 69 Fed. Rep. 891;
United States v. Mille Lac Indians, 229 U. S. 498; Vigo's
Case, 21 Wall. 648; Woodford v. Baker, 10 Oregon, 491, 494;
Water Valley v. Seamen, 531 Mississippi, 655, 660. See
also act of May 29, 19,08 (jurisdictional ac{), 35 Stat. 445,
446; act of March 31, 1882 (ratifying permit), 22 Stat.
36, 37; acts of June 12, 1890 (showing how tribal fund was
created), 26 Stat. 146, and June 28, 1906, 34 Stat. 547;
Const. U. S., Art. III, §§ 1 and 2; Fifth and Seventh
Amendments; Const. Wisconsin, Art. 1, § 5; Id., Art. 75,
VOL. ccxxxm--36.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

§ 20; Statutes Wisconsin, §§ 2629, 2630, 4222, 4225; Judicial Code, §§ 24, 145, 233, 235.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court..
By this appeal a review is sought of a judgment of the
court below holding that an amended petition filed by
the appellant stated no cause of action and dismissing
the same. (47 Ct. Cls. 281.) Our attention therefore
must be directed to. the petition, but as a means of at
once clarifying the issues, we refer to the act of Congress
authorizing the suit and briefly state the averments of
an original petition which was likewise dismissed because
stating no cause of action.
By an act of Congress of May 29, 1908 (35 Stats. 444,
c. 216, § 2), jurisdiction was conferred upon the Court of
Claims "to hear, determine, and render final judgment,
notwithstanding lapse of time or statute of limitation,
for any balances found due, without interest, with the
right of appeal as in other cases," upon the claims of
eight named persons who were described in the act as
"traders," against the "Menominee tribe of Indians in
Wisconsin and against certain members of said tribe at
the Green Bay Agency, for supplies, goods, wares, merchandise, tools, and live stock furnished certain members
of the said tribe after the first day of January, in the year
eighteen hundred and eighty, for the purpose of carrying
on logging operations upon the Menominee Indian Reservation, in Wisconsin." The statute further provided:
"Said court shall,. in rendering judgment, ascertain and
determine the amount, if any, due upon each of said
claims, and if the court find that there is a liability upon
any of said claims, it shall then determine if such liability
be that of the said Menominee tribe of Indians as a tribe
or that. of individual members of said tribe, and it shall

GREEN v. MENOMINEE TRIBE.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

render judgment for the amount, if any, found due from
said tribe to any of said claimants, and it shall render
judgments for the amounts, if any, found due from any
of the individual members of said tribe to any of said
claimants." The statute then provided the means by
which the judgments, if any were rendered, whether
against the tribe or agains3t individual Indians, should be
paid.
Green, the appellant, one of the traders named in the
act, sought to recover from the Menominee tribe and 158
named members thereof an amount alleged to be the price
of certain equipment and supplies alleged to have been
furnished by him. The liability of the individual Indians
was based upon averments that they had received during
the years 1886 to 1889 the amount of the equipment and
supplies sued for, and that they had contracted to pay for
the same, the supplies having been furnished them to
enable them to carry on logging operations on the Menominee Reservation in Wisconsin. The liability of the tribe
was based on averments that it had expressly guaranteed
that the individual Indians, members of the tribe, would
pay for the supplies furnished them for the purposes and
under the circumstances alleged. The defendants jointly
demurred on two grounds: first, that the act conferring
authority to bring suit was repugnant to the Constitution,
and second, because the petition stated no cause of action.
Holding that Congress had the undoubted power to pass
the jurisdictional act, the court overruled the first ground.
It also overruled the second ground as to the individual
members of the tribe who were made defendants, but it
sustained the exception of no cause of action as to the
tribe, the court holding that "'under the averments of the
petition the Menominee Tribe of Indians is but a naked
guarantor for the debt of another, and such promise not
being in writing is void under the statute of frauds." The
suit, as to the tribe, was therefore dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

By leave, an amended petition was filed stating a new
cause of action and joining the United States as defendant.
This petition after alleging that the petitioner was a
citizen of the United States and a resident of Wisconsin
and after counting upon the jurisdictional act, made in
substance the following averments: That in 1881 the
Menominee Indians on the reservation were in a destitute
condition and to save them and their families from starvation, the United States granted them permission to cut and
sell the dead and down timber on the reservation "ten
per cent. of the proceeds to go to the benefit of the said
tribe and of those performing labor in that respect."
That when it developed that the Indians, because of their
extreme poverty and want of credit could not procure the
equipment and supplies which were essential to enable
them to make use of the permission, the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs sent a special agent, John A. Wright, to the
Reservation to makje some arrangement whereby such
condition could be remedied. That a council of the tribe
was thereupon held, attended by all the chiefs and head
men and practically all the members of the tribe, and it
was agreed by and between the then Indian Trader,
M. Wescott, "as one party to the agreement, and the
Menominee Indian Tribe as the other party thereto, that
the said M. Wescott, the duly licensed Indian Trader, at
Keshena, Wisconsin, should furnish necessary equipment
and supplies to those members of the tribe who desired to
engage in logging operations to enable them to carry on
such work, and support their resrective families while so
engaged, such equipment and supplies not to exceed the
sum of $2.50 for each thousand feet of logs so cut and sold;
that all logs tut and hauled by the Menominee Tribe in
the logging operations were to be sold through the Indian
Agent to the highest and best bidder; and that the prices
for such supplies as were to be furnished by the petitioner,
should be such prices as were being paid in cash for similar

GREEN v. MENOMINEE TRIBE.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

supplies in that part of the: State, with transportation
added; that said Menominee Tribe promised and agreed
that such equipment and supplies so furnished should be
paid for out of the first proceeds from the sale of the logs
so to be cut and sold. That said agreement was made
with the consent and approval of the Indian Agent residing
at Keshena, Wisconsin, and in charge of said Menominee
Indian Reservation, and also by said special agent,
John A. Wright. That said agreement had the unanimous
approval of all members of the tribe present at said council.
That said agreement was made orally by the said M. Wescott, personally, and by the chiefs and head men on behalf
." It was alleged that the agreement
of said tribe. .
thus made was carried out by the tribe and by Wescott
who made advances for the purposes of the operations in
cutting the dead and down timber and continued to do
so until the year 1886 when Wescott ceased to be the
Indian trader and was succeeded by Green, the petitioner,
and one Stacy whose rights the petitioner Green had acquired. The petition then charged that as the condition of
destitution and inability to obtain equipment and supplies
which had led to the making of the agreement with
Wescott yet prevailed after petitioner and Stacy became
the Indian traders, on the first of January, 1887, it was
agreed between petitioner and Stacy and the tribe that the
previous agreement should be continued in full force and
effect with petitioner and Stacy, the petition expressly
averring that "said last mentioned agreement was made
with your petitioner and W. H. Stacy, personally, and on
behalf of the Menominee Tribe by the chiefs and head
men thereof, which said chiefs and head men still continued to have and were recognized as having authority
to make contracts in behalf of, and binding on said tribe.
That said last mentioned agreement was approved by
the Indian Agent at Keshena, Wisconsin, and was acquiesced in by all members of said tribe, and treated by all
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

parties interested as valid and binding on the contracting
parties."
It was averred that up to 1889 supplies were furnished
in accordance with the agreement with the approval of the
Indian agent and the United States, and with a few e)(ceptions were paid for by the methods pointed out by the
contract; that during the year 1889, however, supplies
amounting to $13,087.46 were furnished to 158 members
of the tribe, the name of each member and the amount
supplied him being stated, for which payment had not
been made either by the Indians, the tribe, or the United
States.
It was further averred that such unpaid for supplies were
furnished "in accordance with and relying upon said
agreement" and that petitioner and Stacy "did not and
would not extend credit to the individual members of
said tribe, but extended such credit solely to the tribe,
relying upon said agreement." It was further alleged
that the proceeds from the sales of the dead and down
timber cut and hauled by the Indians were received by the
Indian agent and if the amounts which came into his
hands in accordance with the contract and which were
subject by its terms to be applied to the payment of the
supplies advanced under the terms of the agreement had
been so applied, all the supplies would have been paid for,
but that they remain unpaid for because "such proceeds
were not so applied." After averring that the logging
operations and the credits extended by the petitioner and
Stacy were for the benefit of the tribe, the petition charged
that "there is a large fund in the possession of the United
States to the credit and for the benefit of said Menominee
Tribe of Indians, derived through their logging operations,
and now amounting to more than a million and a half of
dollars, which fund has been accumulated through the
credit extended and assistance rendered by licensed traders to the Menominee Indians in logging operations,"

GREEN v. MENOMINEE TRIBE.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

but there was no averment that such sum or any part
thereof was derived from payments made to the United
States by the Indian agent of any portion of the sum
derived from the ten per cent. provided for in the contract
and which, it was contemplated would be used by the
Indian agent for the purpose of paying the trader for the
supplies furnished by him. There was also no averment
that the money to the extent of the amount of the supplies
which was received by the Indian agent out of the funds of
the Indians and which was not by him applied to pay for
the supplies, was ever turned over to the Indians or that
in any way the beneficiaries thereof.
they
Thebecame
petition concluded with the following averment
and prayer:
"Your petitioner avers that there is due him from the
Menominee Tribe of Indians, or from the individual
members thereof, as may be found and adjudicated by the
court, the sum of Thirteen Thousand and Eighty-seven
Dollars, Forty-six Cents ($13,087.46).
"Wherefore the petitioner prays judgment for Thirteen
Thousand and Eighty-seven Dollars, Forty-six Cents
($13,087.46)."
By a general demurrer the defendants besides questioning the right to file the amended petition on the ground
that it constituted an entire departure, and insisting in any
event that, if there was a right to file it, its averments did
not state a cause of action, denied the right to implead
the United States as a defendant and challenged the constitutionality of the jurisdictional act. The court without
specifically directing its attention to the other grounds
came to consider whether the amended petition stated a
cause of action and deciding that it did not, dismissed the
cause, and as we at the outset said, the rightfulness of its
action in-so doing is the matter we are called upon to decide.
The contentions pressed upon the one side to sustain
the correctness of the conclusion of the court below and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

on the other to demonstrate the existence of reversible
error, all but involve an examination of the reasoning
which led the court to its conclusion and we think the most
direct way to dispose of the case will be to state under
separate headings the propositions to which the court gave
its sanction and the reasons relied upon to establish that
error was committed.
1. The court held that the jurisdictional act except so
far as concerned the statute of limitations created no new
right in favor of the petitioner, but simply afforded a
means of establishing by a proceeding in the Court of
Claims the existence, if any, of a claim against the tribe
and the individual members of the tribe as such. From
this premise the conclusion was deduced that the act
gave no right to sue the United States and conferred no
jurisdiction upon the court below over claims against an
Indian as a mere individual aside from his membership of
the tribe or dissociated from his dependent condition as an
Indian subject because of such condition to the exercise
by the United States of governmental supervision and
control. The court consequently decided that it was not
concerned with any supposed liability of the individual
defendants as citizens of the United States resulting from
their purely individual and personal contracts and which,
therefore, were not related to or connected with tribal
membership or the dependency resulting from status as
an Indian as distinguished from citizenship. We think
the conclusions thus reached by the court are so clearly
the necessary result of the text of the act that we content
ourselves with referring to that text as a demonstration of
their soundness.
2. Concluding that the relevant provisions of § 2103 of
the Revised Statutes (which are in the margin 1)were ap1 SEc. 2103. Nc agreement shall be made by any person with any
tribe of Indians, or individual Indians not citizens of the United States,
for the payment or delivery of any money or other thing of value, in

GREEN v. MENOMINEE TRIBE.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plicable and controlling, as the contract alleged was not
in writing and did not in other respects conform to the
statute, it was held that no right to recover was stated
in the petition. Again, we think that the conclusion of the
court on this subject is so clearly within the text of the
statute that it suffices to direct attention to such text
without going further. But if it be conceded for argument's sake that there is ambiguity involved in determining from the text whether the statute is applicable, we
are of the opinion that the case as made is so within the
spirit of the statute and so exemplifies the wrong which it
was intended to prevent and the evils which it was intended to remedy as to dispel any doubt otherwise engendered. Nothing, .we think, could more cogently demonstrate this statement than does the development in the
court below concerning the claim in controversy: the uncertainty as to the alleged debtor manifested by the claim
against the individual members of the tribe as principals
and against the tribe as a mere surety, shifting as the
exigencies of the case required to a claim against the tribe
as principal and secondarily against the members as mere
present or in prospective, or for the granting or procuring any privilege
to him, or any other person in consideration of services for said Indians relative to their lands, or to any claims growing out of, or in
reference to, annuities, installments, or other moneys, claims, demands,
or thing, under laws or treaties with the United States, or official acts
of any officers thereof, or in any way connected with or due from the
United States, unless such contract or agreement be executed and approved as follows:
First. Such agreement shall be in writing, and a duplicate of it delivered to each party.
Second. It shall be executed before a judge of a court of record, and
bear the approval of the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs indcrsed upon it.
All contracts or agreements made in violation of this section shall be
null and void, .

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

accessories, culminating in a prayer for relief which in and
of itself points to the uncertainty with which the transactions referred to were environed. And this is additionally
fortified by observing that on the face of the petition it
appears that an adequate amount of the labor and property
of the tribe or of its individual members passed into the
hands of the person designated under the alleged contract
and who by its terms was charged with the duty of paying
it over for the equipment and supplies furnished. A situation which makes it clear that the controversy is not
whether there is a liability express or implied for supplies
and equipment received and not paid for, bfit upon whom
the loss must fall resulting from the failure of the person
designated under the asserted contract and who received
the money, to discharge his duty by paying it over to the
furnisher of the supplies who was a party to the alleged
contract and in whose interest and for whose benefit presumably the provision as to the retention and paying over
of the money was made.
But it is said the statute ought not to be held applicable
because the petitioner was a licensed Indian trader authorized to deal with the tribe and its members. But manifestly the right to deal did not confer power to deal by
making unlawful contracts.' And this consideration also
answers the proposition so much insisted upon that because the asserted contract was made in the presence of
and with the assent of an agent of the Interior Department,
therefore the provisions of § 2103 should not be held applicable. We say the prior reasoning is controlling since
it cannot be held that the presence of the agent of the
Interior Department authorized the doing of that which
was expressly prohibited by law. In other words, that
an unlawful contract became lawful because of the presence, at its making, of a public officer whose obvious duty
it was to see to it that the law was not violated. Indeed
when the prohibitions of § 2103 are considered and the

GREEN v. MENOMINEE TRIBE.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

presence of the representative of the Interior Department

at the time the alleged agreement was entered into is borne
in mind, if inferences are to be indulged in it is not to be
inferred that that which was prohibited by law was done,

but rather the assumption should be that instead of leaving
the trader who was to furnish the equipment and supplies
for utilizing, by the Indians, the dead and down timber
to depend for his payment upon the mere force of the contract agreements of the tribe or its individual members,
having regard to the interest of the trader and his protection and with his- consent it was arranged that the proceeds to arise from marketing the dead and down timber
should go into the hands of the Indian agent so that before
paying the Indians for their labor, the sum due for the
supplies should be paid by the agent to the tradeT, thus in
a sense impounding in the hands of the person selected
by him the proceeds for the trader's benefit. And this
view answers the contention made that even in the absence of an express contract, there should have been a
judgment against the tribe and its members upon the
theory of an implied obligation to pay arising from the
fact of the receipt by the tribe or its members of supplies
or equipment for which they had not paid. True, in a
narrow sense it may be said that the case involves the
right of the petitioner to be paid for the supplies furnished,
but from the point of view of the Indians in a broad sense
the case as made involves deciding whether the petitioner
should bear the loss of the failure of the agent to pay over
to him out of the moneys retained for that purpose, the
sum of the advances of supplies, that is to say, whether
the Indians after having placed in the hands of the designated person the sum of the supplies are under the obligation to pay again, that is to pay twice.
Affirmed.

