OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

us that the Act reasonably admits of his being returned to
the land of his nativity, that being in fact "the country
whence he came" when he first entered the United States.
See Lavin v. Le Feve, 125 Fed. Rep. 693, 696; Ex parte
Hamaguchi, 161 Fed. Rep. 185, 190; Ex parte Wong You,
176 Fed. Rep. 933, 940; United States v. Ruiz, 203 Fed.
Rep. 441,.444. We need go no further, and may therefore
leaVe undecided the question whether the Act leaves any
room for discretion on the part of the Secretary of Commerce and Labor.
We have assumed, without deciding, that that part of
the deportation order which determines the destination
of the alien is open to inquiry up0n habeas corpus.
Judgment affirmed.

SINGER SEWING MACHINE COMPANY v. BRICKELL, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF
ALABAMA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 458.

Argued January 12, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

Where orders are taken in one State for goods to be supplied from
another State, which orders are transmitted to the latter State for
acceptance or rejection, and filled from stock in that State, the
business is interstate commerce and not subject to a state license
tax. Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 22T U. S. 389.
The separate license tax imposed by the statutes of Alabama on the
business of sellingor delivering sewing machines, either in person or
through agents, for each county and for each wagon and team used in
delivering the same is not, as to a corporation having regular stores
established in the different counties to which it sends its goods in
bulk and from which they are sold on orders to be approved by it at

SINGER SEWING MACHINE CO. v. BRICKELL. 305
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

its home office, unconstitutional as denying due process of ;aw, or as
interfering with interstate conm*erce, or as denying equal protection
of the law because it does not. apply to merchants selling such machines, at regularly established places of business.
Ini determining whether a state tax statute is constitutional, there is a
presumption that the legislature intended to tax only that which iA
had the constitutional power to tax, and the statute will be sustained
if full and fair effect can be given to its provisions as confined wholly
to intrastate business.
While a state license statute if void in part may be wholly vqid where
its provisions are not separable, it may be sustained so far as it relates to business wholly intrastate and held inapplicable as toi interstate commerce; and so held that the Alabama sewing machine
licese tax ip constitutional as to those agencies of a foreign corporation which carry on an intrastate business and inapplicable as to
those agencies of such corporation which carry on a wholly interstate
business.
The classification of merchants selling sewing machines at regular
places of business as distinguished from a manufacturer selling
them by traveling galesmen is not so unreasonable -and arbitrary as
to render it a denial of equal protection of the law under the Fourteenth Amendment.
The State has a wide range of discretion in establishing classes for
revenue taxes, and its laws will not be set aside as discriminatory
if there is any rational basis for the classification.
The court below rightly held that a foreign .corporation having an
agency in each county of the State and selling sewing machines by
traveling salesmen as well as at the agencies was subject to the
license intended to be imposed on itinerant sales by the statute of
Alabama, and that it fell without the excepted class of merchants
although the latter made deliveries of machines by wagon.
APPELLANT, which is a New Jersey corporation carrying
on a mercantile business in many places in the State of
Alabama in the sale and renting of sewing machines, in
part from regularly established places of business and in
part by means of delivery wagons going from place to
place in the respective counties in which its stores axe
located, filed its bill of complaint against appellees, who
are the agents of the State charged with the administration of the tax laws, and therein sought to restrain by
VOL. ccxxxxn-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.

injunction the enforcement against it of the state tax
prescribed by §'32 of an act for providing revenues,
approved March 31, 191,1 (Session Acts, p. 180), which
reads as follows:
"Sec. 32. Sewing Machines.-Each person, firm or
corporation selling or delivering sewing machines either
in person or through agents, shall pay fifty dollars annually, for each county in which they may sell or deliver
said articles. And for each wagon and team used in
delivering or displaying the same an additional slim in
each county of twenty-five dollars annually; but this
section shall not apply to merchants selling the above
enumerated articles at their regularly established places
of business."
And also to enjoin the enforcement of county taxes,
amounting to fifty per centum of the state tax prescribed
by the above section, which might be, imposed, in the several counties for county purposes under § 33F of the same
act.
The bill, as amended, besides showing diverse citizenship of the parties, avers that complainant is qualified
under the state laws to do business within the State as a
foreign corporation, and has established, in thirty counties
of the State, thirty-six regular places of business or stores,
which are conducted by it; that complainant buys sewing
machines and parts to supply breakage and defects
therein and a variety of sewing machine accessories without the State, causes them to be shipped to its places of
business within the State, and keeps them at these places
for sale to the general public.
In each of the counties, except the County of Russell,
the business is conducted as follows: a resident agent is
einployed for the purpose of making contracts for the
sale and renting of machines in that county and that
county only; machines are delivered to such agents and
placed aboard wagons and taken by the agents into the

SINGER SEWING MACHINE CO. v. BRICKELL. 307
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

rural districts for the purpose of soliciting customers
either to purchase or to rent machines; when a buyer is
found the machine is delivered by the agent to the customer, 'who either pays cash for it or executes an instalment note in which the company retains title to the
machine, or an instalment note secured by a mortgage
upon the machine and other property; such sale on credit
is made subject to the approval of the company, and if
not approved the instalment note is returned -to the
maker and the machine -returned to the company. If the
agent makes a contract for the sale of the machine for
cash this also is subject to the approval or disapproval
of complainant. The final consummation of all sales is at
one of complainant's established places of business.
The same agents are engaged also in renting machines and
collecting the rent arising therefrom, and the greater
portion of their time is consumed in such: renting, this
constituting at least seventy per centum of the business
done by complainant in the State. Rented machines are
placed aboard wagons and taken by the agents intq the
rural districts. Each of these agents is atftached to some
one of the stores or places of business operated by complainant, and the machines handled by the gent are'sent
to him from the place of business to which he is attached,
or taken from that place of business by him upon the
wagon which he drives. Besides this, complainant sells
and rents machines at its regularly established places of
business and delivers such machines to the buyers or
renters by the use of wagons and teams; and in those
counties where complainant has established places of
business, machines sold or rented at those places are
delivered by the same agents and with the same wagons
that are used in carrying machines into the rural districts.
It is averred that the machines are of the average weight
of 135 pounds. That there are many other merchants in
the State who sell sewing machines of a different manu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.

facture at their places of business, and the average weight
of these also is about 135 pounds; that on account of their
weight it is the custom and practice of complainant, and
of the other merchants also, to make delivery by the use
of wagons and teams whether the sales are made at their
places of business or otherwise, and that it is impracticable
to conduct the business without delivery by wagon.
With respect to the business conducted in Russell
County, Alabama, it is averred that complainant operates
a regularly established place of business in the City of
Columbus, Georgia, where sewing machines and accessories are kept for sale, and in connection with this business agents are employed to deliver machines and accessories in Russell County, which adjoins the Georgia state
line; and that complainant does not sell or deliver any
sewing machines or accessories in Russell County except
in the following manner, namely, its agents use wagons
and teams in going about and displaying sample machines,
and thereby obtain orders for machines and accessories,
which orders are transmitted by the agents to the complainant at Columbus, Georgia, for acceptance or rejection,
and if accepted the machines or other articles so ordered
are taken out of stock there, placed upon wagons, and
thereby delivered to the purchasers in Russell County.
The bill is based upon the contention that § 32 of the
tax law violates the Constitution of the United States in
that it is a regulation of interstate commerce, and contravenes the "due process" and "equal protection" clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment, and also that it violates
the constitution of Alabama; and, finally, that appellant
is within the exception of the statute.
To the original bill (prior to the amendments) demurrers were filed, and were sustained as to the whole
bill except paragraph 6, which set forth the mode of conducting complainant's business in Russell County. As
to this the court held that the facts showed a case of inter-

SINGER SEWING MACHINE CO. v. BRICKELL. 309
233 U. S....

Argument for Appellant.

state commerce, and that the act had no application to it.
199 Fed. Rep. 654.
The amendments having been made, the amended bill
was submitted upon the same demurrers, which were
made to apply to the bill as amended. Again the court
sustained the demurrers except as to paragraph 6 relating
to Russell County, and as to this overruled them. Defendants then filed an answer admitting the allegations of
paragraph 6, and the cause was submitted upon bill and
answer, with the result that by final decree relief was
accorded to complainant as to the license tax sought to be
collected in Russell County, and in other respects relief was
denied and the bill dismissed. Because of the constitutional questions, a direct appeal to this court was taken
under Judicial Code, § 238.
Mr. John R. Tyson, and Mr. Henry Axtell Prince, with
whom Mr. M. A. Gunter was on the brief, for appellant:
This court has jurisdiction of a direct appeal from the
District Courts of the United States when the constitution
or law of a State is claimed to be in contravention of the
Constitution of the United States. Judicial Code, § 238.
Although the appellant may insist that the law which
is impeached has no application to his case, or that the
res does not, for any reason, come within its terms, yet, if
he insists bona fide that, though such defenses fail, the unconstitutionality of the law protects him, the court has
jurisdiction, since "the question is (was) a substantial one,
and is (was) directly presented, and. its determination (is)
required," unless other defenses succeed. Smoot v. Heyl,
227 U. S. 518.
. When the constitutional question does not arise except
on the condition of a preliminary question of general law
being decided in favor of the appellant, then it cannot be
said to be directly and necessarily involved and the court
has no jurisdiction, as in Empire Co. v. Hanley', 05 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellant.

233 U. S.

255; Cosmopolitan Mining C6. v, Walsh, 193 U. S. 460;
Casey vi H. & T. C. Ry., 150 U. S. 170; Sloan v. United
States, 193 U. S. 614; Muse v. Arlington H. Co., 168 U. S.
430.
When the constitutional point is directly presented
and is necessarily involved, in any decision against the
appellant, though he may have preliminary points which
might protect him without considering the constitutional
question, the court has jurisdiction of the appeal, as is
expressly decided in the Smoot Case, supra; Penn Mut.
Life Ins. Co. v. Austin, 168 U. S. 685; Mayor v. Vicksburg,
202 U. S. 453; Field v. Barber Asphalt Co., 194 U. S. 618;
Burton v. United States, 196 U. S. 283; Ill. Cent. R. R. v.
McKendres, 203 U. S. 554.
When the constitutional questioi is duly presented in
the lower court the jurisdiction of this court does not depend upon the question whether the right claimed under
the Constitution of the United States has been upheld or
denied in the court below; and the jurisdiction of this
court is not limited to the constitutional question, but
extends to the whole case. Cases supra and Holder v.
Aultman, 169 U. S. 81, 88; Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160
U. S. 231, 238; Loeb v. Columbia &c., 179 U. S. 472;
Chappell v. United States, 160 U. S. 499, 509; Homer v.
United States, No. 2, 143 U. S. 570, 577.
When there is no full, adequate and complete remedy
at law, there is an unqualified right to appeal to equity,
and especially so when in that way only a multitude of
ruinous and vexatious law suits, about a single matter,
can be avoided. Boyce v. Grundy, 3 Pet. 210; West.
Union Tel. Co. v. Andrews, 216 U. S. 165; Ex parte Young,
209 U. S. 123; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Walla
Walla v. Water Co., 172 U. S. 1, 12; Meyer v. Wells, Fargo
& Co., 223 U. S. 298.
The equal protection of the laws is denied when, all
questions of police power being out of the way, a lawful

SINGER SEWING MACHINE CO. v. BRICKELL. 311
233 U. S.

Argument, for Appellant.

business, or the use of property in a lawful way, is palpably and unjustly discriminated against in favor of
other business or other use of the same property by the
same or other owners.
A business may be taxed for revenue or may be-forbidden or regulated under the police power, and so with
the use of property, but a business cannot be taxed on
account of the manner of conducting it by one citizen
while the same business conducted in a different and perhaps less efficient manner by other citizens is exempted.
And so as to property. The use of wagons and teams for
transporting sewing machines, for sale or display, cannot
be taxed merely because they are used in such work
while untaxed when not so used and when the same transportation and display may be effected without taxation
in any other way. Ala. Con. Coal Co. v. Herzberg, 55
So. Rep. 305; Montgomery v. Kelly, 142 Alabama, 552;
Mefford v. Sheffield, 148 Alabama, 539; Phwnix Carpet
Co. v. State, 118 Alabama, 143.
Legislation cannot restrict or coerce industry as to its
channels from pure whimsicality, or from any motive disconnected from the due exercise of the police power and
from taxation for revenue according to constitutional
formulas. Cases supra and. see Constitution of Alabama,
§ 35.
A business or property camnot be taxed as a whole and
then separately as to its constituents. As a tax on wagons
and separately on the spokes of the wheels. Montgomery
v. Kelly, 142 Alabama, 552; Mefford v. Sheffield, 148
Alabama, 539; Mobile V. Richards, 98 Alabama, 594;
Gambill v. Endrich Bros., 143 Alabama, 506.
No state statute can stand which by its terms will burden or regulate interstate commerce. And the courts cannot by judicial limitation preserve the statute in part by
restricting its terms to a legitimate field of operation. Citil
Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM,

1913.

Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

214; Howard v. Illinois Cent. R. Co., 207 U. S. 463; West.
Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Crutcher v. Kentucky,
141 U. S. 47, 62; Norf. & West. Ry. v. Pennsylvania, 136
U. S. 114, 118; Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Galveston &c. R. Co. v. Texas,210 U. S. 217; Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78-81; Butts v. Mar. & Mins. T. Co., 230
U. S. i26.
Contracts are made, and the "business of selling" is
done, at the place where the contract receives the final assent of the mind which concludes the negotiation, converting it into a contract or sale. Holder v. Aultman, 169
U. S. 81, 88.
1 Mr. Robert C. Brickell, Attorney General of the State of
Alabama, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
With respect to the business conducted in Russell
County, the decree of the District Court is not now directly
under review; but, at any rate, it was clearly correct under
Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389. With respect -to
the other counties, the correctness of the decision, so far
as the commerce clause is concerned, seems to us equally
clear under Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296.
But it is argued that the courts cannot properly sustain a statute which in direct terms applies to all commerce, by restricting it to cases of actual interference with
interstate dealings. To quote from the brief: "All such
laws as will necessarily affect interstate commerce when it
arises are void. We do not have to await actual results on
And,
actual commerce to pronounce them void. ,
of course, a statute of this character, which is void as a
whole, from its unity of character, will as readily be so
declared in a case in, which only intrastate commerce may
be actually involved as otherwise. The lower court was

SINGER SEWING MACHINE CO. v. BRICKELL. 313
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

thus clearly in error in limiting the invalidity of the statute
to the dealing in Russell County."
This argument, we think, misses the point. The statute
under consideration does not in direct terms or by necessary inference manifest an intent to regulate or burden
interstate commerce. FuHl and fair effect can be given to
its provisions, and an unconstitutional meaning can be
avoided, by indulging the natural presumption that the
legislature was intending to tax only that which it constitutionally might tax. So construed, it does not apply
to interstate commerce at all. The statute provides for a
license or occupation tax. Normally, as the averments of
the bill sufficiently show, the occupation may be and is
conducted wholly intrastate, and free from any element of
interstate commerce. The fact that, as carried on in
Russell County, a like occupation is conducted with interstate commerce as an eIsential ingredient, is wholly
fortuitous.
Nor has the tax that "tuity of character" upon which
the argument necessarily depends. The cases cited in
support of the insistence that the act must be adjudged
totally void because if applied in Russell County it would
burden interstate commerce are readily distinguishable.
In United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 221, there was a
penal statute couched in general language broad enough
to cover wrongful acts without as well as within the constitutional inhibition, and it was held that the court could
not reject the unconstitutiondl part and retain the remainder, because it was not possible to separate the one
from the other. In Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, 99,.
the court upon the same principle declined to sustain in
part. a trade-mark law, so framed as to be applicable by
its terms to all commerce, by confining it to the interstate
commerce that alone was subject to the control of Congress. In Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, 647,
the court held a general license tax, imposed by the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

of Alabama upon the business of. a telegraph company in
part interstate and in part internal, to be unconstitutional,
and held that since the tax affected the whole business
without discrimination it. could not be sustained with
respect to that portion of the business that was internal
and therefore taxable by the State. To the same effect are
Norfolk &c. R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114, 119;
Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, 62; Galveston &c. Ry.
Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 27. In Williams v. Talladega, 226
U. S. 404, 419, there was a state license tax that operated
without exemption or distinction upon the privilege of
carrying on a business, a part of which was that of an
essential governmental agency constituted under a law
6f the United States. It was held that the tax necessarily
included within its operation this part of the business,
and since this was unconstitutional the whole tax was
rendered void.
The statute now under consideration differs materially,
in that it deals separately with the business as conducted
in each county of the State, and provides for separate
taxes to be laid for each county. And the facts as averred
in the bill of complaint show that with respect to all of the
counties in which appellant does business, excepting only
the County of Russell, there is no element of interstate
commerce. In each county there is a store or regular
place of business, from which all of the local agents for the
same county are supplied with sewing machines and
appurtenances that are to be taken into the rural districts
for sale or renting, and all transactions that enter into the
sale or renting are completely carried out within a single
county.
It would be going altogether too far to say that appellant, being properly taxable, and without the least interference with interstate commerce, in twenty-nine counties
of the State, could obtain immunity from all such taxation

SINGER SEWING MACHINE CO. v. BRICKELL. 315
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by establishing in one county a system of business that
involved transactions in interstate commerce.
So far as the Fourteenth Amendment is concerned, the
argument is confined to the "equal protection" clause. It
is said there is no sufficient ground for a distinction, with
respect to taxing the occupation, between the business of
selling sewing machines from a regularly established store
and the business of selling them from a delivery wagon.
But there is an evident difference, in the mode of doing
business, between the local tradesman and the itinerant
dealer, and we are unable to say that the distinction made
between them for purposes of taxation is arbitrarily made.
In such matters the States necessarily enjoy a wide range
of discretion, and it would require a clear case to justify the
courts in striking down a law that is uniformly applicable
to all persons pursuing a given occupation, on the ground
that persons engaged in other occupations more or less
like it ought to be similarly taxed. This is not such a case.
Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 559, 562;
Cook v. Marshall County, 196 U. S. 261, 274; Armour
Packing Co. v. Lacy, 200 13. S. 226, 235; Southwestern Oil
Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114, 121.
In Quartlebaum v. State, 79 Alabama, 1, 4, a previous
statute (sub-section 20 of § 14, act of December 12, 1884;
Session Acts 1884-5, p. 17), which imposed an annual
license fee of $25 upon "each sewing machine
company selling sewing machines .
.
either themselves or by their agents, and all persons who engage in

the business of selling sewing machines

.

.

.

but

when merchants engaged in a general business, keep
sewing machines . . . they shall not be required to
pay the tax herein provided," was sustained against the
criticism that it discriminated between two classes of
persons engaged in the business of selling sewing machines, namely, between persons who were "merchants
engaged in a general business," and persons not so engaged;

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

the court saying as to the former, "If sewing machines be
part of their stock in trade, they are taxed for them as for,
other merchandise. Their business is in its nature stationary, and there is little or no risk in levying taxes upon
their business, on the rule of percentage. That rule may
be wholly unsuited and ineffectual for other pursuits, and
,other lines of business. Much must be left to the discretion of the Legislature, for exact equality of taxation can
never be reached." And see Ballou v. State, 87 Alabama,
144 146.
The contention that the statute violates the state constitution is grounded upon two sections of the Bill of
Rights, viz., § 1, "That all men are equally free and independent; that they are endowed by their Creator with
certain inalienable rights; that among these are life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness;" and § 37, "That
the sole object and only legitimate end of government
is to protect the citizen in the enjoyment of life, liberty and property; and when the government assumes
other functions, it is usurpation and oppression."
The bearing of these provisions upon the case in hand is
not clear. The argument seems to be that since the tax
law in question is not a police measure but a revenue
measure, the discriminations are arbitrary. To quote
from the brief: "Selling sewing machines is the business,
and it is taxed highly, and it may be in fact prohibitorily,
when it is done by the use of wagons and teams, and not at
all when done at stores." There are other suggestions of a
like import. They seem to be sufficiently answered by
what has been already said respecting the "equal protection" clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The State
has a wide range of discretion with respect to establishing
classes for the. purpose of imposing revenue taxes, -and its
laws upon the subject are not to be set aside as discriminatory unless it clearly appears that there is no rational
basis for the classification.

SINGER SEWING MACHINE CO. v. BRICKELL. 317
233 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

The cases cited from the state courts lend no support to
appellant's argument. City of Mobile v. Craft, 94 Alabama,
156; Mayor and Aldermen of Tuscaloosa v. Holczstein,

134 Alabama, 636, and Gambill v. Endrich Bros., 143
Alabama, 506, involved the construction of certain municipal charters and the powers of the respective municipalities thereunder, and have no direct bearing Upon the
present question. In Montgomery v. Kelly, 142 Alabama,
552, 559, a municipal ordinance requiring each merchant
who issued trading stamps in connection with his business
to pay a license tax of $100, -viewed in the light of another
ordinance that fixed a license fee of $1,000 upon trading
stamp companies, was held to be "A palpable attempt
under the guise of a license tax, to fix a penalty on the
merchant, for conducting his business in a certain way,"
and therefore unconstitutional. Mefford v. City of Sheffield,

148 Alabama, 539, sustained a city ordinance that imposed
a tax of $200 on wholesale dealers in illuminating oil, while
fixing the license'tax on de'lers in goods, wares, or merchandise in general at $10. Alabama Consolidated Coal Co.
v. Herzberg, 59 So. Rep. 305, declared unconstitutional
§ 33A of the Revenue Act of March 31, 1911, p. 181, which
undertook to impose upon persons, firms, or corp6rations
conducting a store at which their employs trade on
checks, orders, or the like, an annual license fee varying
according to the number of persons employed; the court
saying, p. 306: "The tax is not, therefore, imposed- upon

the business, or upon all engaged in a similar business, but
is based solely upon the manner inwhich a party may
conduct the business; and the foregoing section is repugnant to the state and Federal constitutions under the authority of City of Montgomery v. Kelly, 142 Alabama, 552."
The other state decisions to which we are referred have
been examined, and we are unable to find in them any
basis for declaring § 32 of the Act to be in contravention of
the state constitution.

-OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

Finally, it is said that since it appears from the averments of the bill that all sales of sewing machines by appellant's agents in the field are executory only, and require
the approval of appellant at its regularly established
places of business, located in the various counties of the
State, which are headquarters for all agents with their
wagons and teams, it at the same time sufficiently appears
that appellant is a merchant conducting a regular business
at each of said stores, and therefore within the saving
clause of § 32 of the Act in question, which declares that
"This section shall not apply to merchants selling the
above enumerated articles at their regularly established
places of business."
It is quite plain, however, from a reading of the entire
*section, that the business of selling sewing machines by
traveling salesmen is intended to be taxed, and the business
of selling them at established places of business is intended
to be left untaxed, so far as this section is concerned, although the machines sold at these places be delivered by
wagons. Complainant is engaged in doing business of
both kinds; and with respect to the itinerant sales it is
subject to the tax under the section referred to.
Decree affirmed.

O'SULLIVAN v. FELIX.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 249. Submitted March 9, 1914.-Decided April 13, 1914.
That an action depends upon, or arises under, the laws of the United
States, does not preclude the application of the statute of limitations
of the State. McLaine v. Rankin, 197 U. S. 154.

