ATCHISON &c. RY. CO. v. ROBINSON.
233 U. S.

Argument for ].laintiff in Error.

ATCHISON,

TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY
COMPANY v. ROBINSON.

ERROR TO THE SUPREMEl COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 450.

Argued February 26, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

Where the state court by its ruling denies the carrier the benefit of the
Interstate Commerce Act, a compliance wherewith was set up in the
pleadings and supported by testimony, this court has jurisdiction
to review under ยง 237, Judicial Code.
The effect of the Carmack Amendment was to give to Federal jurisdiction control over interstate commerce and to make Federal legislation regulating liability for property transported by common
carriers in interstate commerce exclusive.
The shipper, as well as the carrier, is bound to take not.ce of the filed
tariff rates, and so long as they remain operative they are, in the
absence of attempts at rebating or false billing, conclusive as to the
rights of the parties. Gread N(Tthern Ry. v. O'Connor, 232 U. S. 508.
An oral agreement cannot be given a prevailing effect which will be
contrary to the filed schedules. To do so would open the door to
special contracts and defeat the primary purpose of the Interstate
Commerce Act to require equal treatment of all shippers and the
charging to all of but one rate, and that the rate filed as required
by the act.
36 Oklahoma, 435, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Hepburn Act and of the Carmack Amendment, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. S. T. Bledsoe, with whom Mr. J. R. Cottingham
and Mr. George M. Green were on the brief, for plaintiff
inerror:
A Federal question was raised by the answer and the
amended answer.

The freight was paid on basis of a limited liability
contract.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

The classification and tariff were binding on shipper.
The shipper was charged with notice of provision of
tariff.
There was error in the instructions given by the court.
In support of these contentions, see Adams Express Co.
v. Croninger,226 U. S. -491; C., B. & Q.Ry. Co. v. Miller,
226 U. S. 513; Chicago & Alton Ry. Co. v. Kirby, 225 U. S.
155; C., St. P., M. & 0. Ry. Co. v. Latta, 226 U. S. 519;
Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658; K. C. So. Ry. Co. v.
Albers Comm. Co., 223 U. S. 575; K. C. So. Ry. Co. v. Carl,
227 U. S. 639; M., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Harriman,227 U. S.
657; Mackey v. Dillon, 4 How. 421-427; Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255; T. & P. Ry. Co. v. Mugg, 202 U. S.
242; Wells, Fargo & Co. v. Neiman-Marcus, 227 U. S. 469;
St. L. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Ladd, 33 Oklahoma, 160; Commonwealth v. Clearfield Coal Co., 129 Pa. St. 461.
Mr. John B. Daish, with whom Mr. H. H. Smith and
Mr. J, W. Beller were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The shipmenit moved upon an oral agreement, which
was a breach of the railway company's obligation to
carry safely, and within a reasonable time. The horses
were not weighed and, according to the Supreme Court
of Missouri, this is conclusive that the alleged written
contract was not i good faith. See Leas v. Quincy
Ry. Co., 136 S. W. Rep. 963; Burns v. C. R. I. & P. Ry.
Co., 132 S. W. Rep. 1; Grant v. C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
132 S. W. Rep. 311.
While this court has decided several times that the
signing of the contract was conclusive on the shipper as
to the terms contained, it also clearly says that if any
deceit or fraud, of whatever kind and nature, is practiced
on the shipper, these facts of fraud or deceit may be shown
in the case, and the jury are the rightful judges of the
probative value of the same, and the contract in that
class of cases would not be binding.

ATCHISON &c. RY. CO. v. ROBINSON.
233 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The facts found by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma
are conclusive on this court.
This court will not inquire into the facts, but depends
upon the findings of the state court. Hilton v. Dickman,
6 Cranch, 165; United States v. Burchard, 125 U. S. 178.
See rule 4 of this court, par. 2.
Where the jurisdiction of this court is doubtful, a writ
of error will not be awarded. N. Y. & N. E. Ry. Co. v.
Bristol, 151 U. S. 555; So. Ry. Co. v. Carson, 194 U. S. 136.
The Interstate Commerce Act does not contemplate
either a written or an oral. contract, and neither has been
legislated about by Congress, and until Congress exercises authority over these contracts, they will be regulated by the law of the place where they are made.
An oral contract is valid in Missouri, in reference to an
interstate shipment, so long as its terms do not contravene the provisions of the act. Railroad Co. v. Abilene
Cotton Co., 204 U. S. 426; Merchants PressCo. v. Insurance
Co., 151 U. S. 368.
This court will nou take jurisdiction of a case decided
on a theory not necessary to determine a Federal question.
Case Mfg. Co. v. Soxmarn, 138 U. S. 431; Atlantic Coast
Line v. Riverside Mill Co., 219 U. S. 186; Hammond v.
Whittredge, 204 U. S. 547; Forbesv. Virginia State Council,
216 U. S. 399; Rogers v. Jones, 214 U. S. 204; Leathe v.
Thomas, 207 U. S. 93; California Powder Works v. Davis,
151 U. S. 393; Gaar, Scott & Co. v. Shannon, 223 U. S.
468.
Questions of fact found by state courts are conclusive.
on the Supreme Court of the United States. King v.
West Virginia, 216 U. E. 100; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v.
Texas, 212 U. S. 97; Chrisman v. Miller, 197 U. S. 319.
The cases cited by counsel for plaintiff in error are not
applicable, because, in all of the cases cited, the question
presented was that the shipment moved upon the written
contract, but there was no bona fide valuation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

The implied agreement of the common carrier is to
carry safely, and deliver at destination within a reasonable time. It is otherwise when the action is for a breach
of a contract to carry within a particular time, etc. Railway Co. v. Kirby, 226 U. S. 155.
The submission, as a question of fact, as to whether the
shipment moved by oral contract, or the written contract, was a question of practice in this jurisdiction, and
is not reviewable by this court.
Matters of practice in inferior courts do not constitute
subjects upon which error can be assigned in the appellate
courts. Parsonsv. Bedford, 3 Pet. 433; Earnshawv. United
States, 146 U. S. 60; The Francis Wright, 105 U. S. 381;
Mining Co. v. Boggs, 3 Wall. 304.
If the case was decided upon some ground where it
was not necessary to bring the Federal statute into controversy, then no Federal question is presented, and the Supreme Court of the United States has no jurisdiction. Lawler v. Walker, 14 How. 149. See, The Victory, 6 Wall. 382.
It must appear that the state court could not have
reached its judgment without expressly deciding the
Federal matter. Bachtel v. Wilson, 204 U. S. 36.
If the statute is only collaterally involved, this court
has no jurisdiction. Candee v. York, 168 U. S. 642; Williams v. Oliver, 12 Wall. 111.
If the case is disposed of upon non-Federal grounds,
the Supreme Court has no jurisdiction. Harrison v.
Morton, 171 U. S. 38; Klinger v. Missouri, 13 Wall. 257;
Chicago Railway Co. v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 561.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, plaintiff below and herein
so designated, brought suit in the District Court of Lincoln County, Oklahoma, to recover for damages to a race
horse, the property of the plaintiff, which was shipped with

ATCHISON &c. RY. CO. v. ROBINSON.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other race horses from Kausas City, Missouri, to Lawrence,
Kansas. Upon verdict in favor of the plaintiff, judgment
was entered accordingly, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma (36 Oklahoma, 435).
The plaintiff alleged that the contract of consignment
was a verbal one, made by calling up the agent of the Railway Company at Kansas City by telephone on the day the
shipment was made, advising him that the plaintiff had
race horses which he desired to ship to Lawrence in time
for the races next day; that he was informed by the agent
that such shipment could be made and that if the horses
could be loaded between four and six o'clock of that afternoon they would be carried by the fast freight known as
the "Red Ball," making no stops for local freight and
reaching Lawrence about twelve o'clock that night;
that it was agreed between them that the shipment
should be made by that train; that the plaintiff was instructed where to bring the horses and informed that a
car would be placed to receive them; and that the horses
were taken to the place designated by the agent, loaded
into a car between five and six o'clock in the afternoon,
the car being closed and labeled "Red Ball," meaning
that it should go with the "Red Ball" train on that
evening. The car was not taken out that night, and there
was testimony tending to show that it was switched
about in the yard and on the next morning was started
with local freight to Lawrence, arriving there about two
o'clock next day, too late for the races. And there was
evidence that the horse of the plaintiff had been badly
injured through the negligence of the defendant.
By an amended answer the Railway Company set
up the fact that the shipment was in interstate commerce
and the filing and approval by the Interstate Commerce
Commission of certain tariff rates duly posted, as required
by the act, wherein it was provided:
"(A) Rates named in section two apply on shipments
VOL. ccxxxiii-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

of ordinary live stock, where contracts are executed by
shippers on blanks furnished by these companies, and
are based on the declared valuation by the shipper at
time contract is signed, not to exceed the following:
"Each horse or pony (gelding, mare, stallion), mule
or jack, $100.00. Each ox, bull or steer, $50.00. Each
cow, $30.00. Each calf, $10.00. Each hog, $10.00. Each
sheep or goat, $3.00.
"(B) Where the declared value exceeds the above an
addition of twenty-five per cent. will be added to the rate
for each one hundred per cent. or fractional part thereof
of additional declared valuation per head. Animals exceeding in value $800.00 per head will be taken only by
special arrangement.
"(C) Table of rates named will be charged on shipments of live stock made with limitation of company's
liability at common law, and under this status shippers
will have the choice of executing or accepting contracts
for shipments of live stock with or without limitation
of liability and rates accordingly";
and alleged that the shipper obtained the benefit of the reduced rate applicable to the value fixed in the written contract governing the shipment of horses; that the shipment
was made under the tariffs so filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and that the rates and liability of
the Company were governed by the act of Congress. The
plaintiff contended that the complete contract was made
in the oral arrangement without reference to or mention of any particular rate or the value of the stock
other than that it was a race horse. Taking the most
favorable view of the testimony for the plaintiff, it tended
to show that after the car had started from the place of
loading an agent of the company presented to the plaintiff
a printed contract made in conformity to the schedules
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, but
without calling his attention to its provisions, without

ATCHISON &c. RY. CO. v. ROBINSON.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

informing him of its contents and without procuring his
assent to the terms therein stated, although he admitted
executing the contract.
The trial court charged the jury over the exception
of the Railway Company that if they found that at the
time of the shipment the contract was entered into by
the plaintiff and the defendant and that the plaintiff
represented to the defendant that the horse did not exceed $100 in value and that the defendant relied upon the
representation and gave a rate less than the regular one
for that class of shipment and was misled by such misrepresentation and induced to fix a lower rate than the
regular one, and if they found the defendant guilty of
negligence, they were limited in their findings to the sum
of $100; but that if they found that the representation
was not made by the plaintiff but was arbitrarily inserted
by defendant or printed in its contract when signed, then
the plaintiff was not bound by the limitation and they
should find his actual damages. The jury rendered a
verdict in favor of the plaintiff for $1500.
Upon writ of error to the Supreme Court of Oklahoma
that court affirmed the judgment rendered in the District
Court and held:
"Where a shipment of live stock is made under a verbal
contract, and where every move made, every step taken
toward a shipment, up to and including a complete consignment and surrender of control by the shipper, the
starting in transit of the shipment and the assumption
of liability for negligence by the carrier, is all under and
pursuant to such parol agreement, and after this a printed
shipping contract is presented to the shipper to sign, he
has the right to assume that it embodies the terms of the
verbal agreement, and the carrier will not be permitted
to escape liabilities accruing to the shipper under the
verbal agreement by reason of certain provisions in the
written contract at variance with the parol contract,

. OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

unless the shipper's attention has been called to such
provisions and fair opportunity given him to assent to
same."
It is thus seen that the defendant specially set up a
defense under the Interstate Commerce Act, a Federal
statute, which, if denied to him, was an adverse ruling of
Federal right which would warrant the bringing of the
case to this court from the highest court of a State under
former ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
now ยง 237 of the Judicial Code. It is apparent from the
foregoing statement that the Federal question now presented involves the ruling of the state court denying to
the carrier the benefit of the Interstate Commerce Act,
a compliance with which was set up in the amended answer
and supported by testimony tending to show the truth
of the allegations thereof.
That the effect of the Carmack Amendment to the
Hepburn Act, ยง 20, act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat.
584, 593, was to give to the Federal jurisdiction control
over interstate commerce and to make supreme the Federal
legislation regulating liability for property transported
by common carriers in interstate commerce has been so
recently and repeatedly decided in this court as to require
now little more than a reference to some of the cases.
Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639;
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Harriman,227 U. S.
657; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Cramer,
232 U. S. 490; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. O'Connor, 232
U. S. 508. We regard these cases as settling the proposition, that the shipper as well as the carrier is bound to
take notice of the filed tariff rates and that so long as
they remain operative they are conclusive as to the rights
of the parties, in the absence of facts or circumstances
showing an attempt at rebating or false billing. Great
Northern Ry. Co. v. O'Connor, supra. To give to the oral
agreement upon which the suit was brought, the prevailing

ATCHISON &c. RY. CO. v. ROBINSON.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

effect allowed in this case by the charge in the trial court,
affirmed by the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State, would be to allow a special contract to have binding
force and effect though made in violation of the filed
schedules which were to be equally observed by the shipper and carrier. If oral agreements of this character can
be sustained then the door is open to all manner of special
contracts, departing from the schedules and rates filed
with the Commission. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v.
Carl, supra, p. 652. To maintain the supremacy of such
oral agreements would defeat the primary purposes of the
Interstate Commerce Act, so often affirmed in the decisions
of this court, which are to require equal treatment of
all shippers and the charging of but one rate to all, and
that the one filed as required by the act.
The Supreme Court of the State in this case affirmed
the instruction of the trial[ court upon which the case
was given to the jury and held that the oral contract
was binding unless it was affirmatively shown that the
written agreement, based upon the filed schedules, was
brought to the knowledge of the shipper and its terms
assented to by him. This ruling ignored the terms of
shipment set forth in the schedules and permitted recovery
upon the contract made in violation thereof in a case
where there was no proof that there was an attempt to
violate the published ratEcs by a fraudulent agreement
showing rebating or false billing of the property, and no
circumstances which would take the case out of the rulings
heretofore made by this court as to the binding effect
of such filed schedules and the duty of the shipper to take
notice of the terms of such rates and the obligation to be
bound thereby in the absence of the exceptional circumstances to which we have referred.
It follows that the rul'ing of the state court affirmed
in the Supreme Court deprived the plaintiff in error
of rights secured by the Federal statute, when properly

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

182

Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

construed, which were set up and claimed in the state
court.
Judgment reversed and case remanded fr further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissents.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY
COMPANY v. MOORE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 451.

Argued February 26, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

Decided on authority of the preceding case.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. S. T. Bledsoe, with whom Mr. J. R. Cottingham
and Mr. George M. Green were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.I
Mr. John B. Daish, witb whom Mr. H. H. Smith and
Mr. J. W. Beller were on the brief, for defendant in error. 1
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendants in error brought suit in the District
Court of Lincoln County, Oklahoma, against the plaintiff in error for damages, alleging that they were the
owners of a certain race horse which had been shipped by
IArgued simultaneously with Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Ry. Co.
v. Robinson; for abstracts of arguments, see ante, p. 173.

