RUSSELL v. SEBASTIAN.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

We have examined the charge and the exceptions thereto
and requests for instructions and are of opinion that the
trial court fairly submitted the questions involved to the
jury in a charge to which there was no substantial objection.
As to the suggestion that the deceased had assumed the
risk of the want of proper appliances and the defective
character of the light at the place in which he worked and
was injured, we do not find that the court was requested
to make any charge upon that subject or that any exception was taken to the court's failure to charge as to
assumption of risk. In that state of the record, the appellate court was not called upon to consider that question.
See Humes v. United States, supra. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed the case for the reason, which we have
stated, that there was an entire failure of adequate testimony to show that Myers came to his death by the negligence of the company in the manner charged. As we
have said, we think that was an erroneous conclusion.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be reversed and the judgment of the Circuit Court
affirmed and the case remanded to the District Court.

RUSSELL v. SEBASTIAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 415.

Argued January 6, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

In determining the question of impairment under the contract clause of
the Constitution it is the duty of this court to determine for itself
the nature and extent of rights acquired under prior legislative or
constitutional action.

The state court having construed a statutory or constitutional provi.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

sion, which gave specified privileges in regard to public utilities in a
certain class of municipalities under specified conditions without
specifying the persons or corporations who could avail thereof or the
method of acceptance, to the effect that the grant became effective
in any municipality within the designated class by the party accepting it as if it had been made specially to the accepting party, this
court follows such construction in regard to § 19 of art. XI of the
constitution of 1879 of California as amended in 1884.
When the State declares that it is bound if its offer to grant a privilege,
which plainly contemplates the establishment of a plant and the
assumption of a duty to perform the services incident to a public
utility, is accepted, the grant resulting from the acceptance constitutes a contract and vests a property right in the accepting party
which is within the protection of the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution.
The rule that public grants are to be construed strictly in favor of the
public, and ambiguities are to be resolved against the grantee, is a
salutary one to frustrate efforts through skilful wording of the grant
by interested parties; but the rule does not deny to public offers a
fair and reasonable interpretation or justify withholding that which
the grant was intended to convey.
An offer of the State to allow parties, ready to serve municipalities with
gas or water, provisions for conveying the gas or water, is to be given
-a practical common-sense construction; and the breadth of the offer
is commensurate with the requirements of the undertaking invited.
Where the constitution of the State does not forbid, the State may
determine the policy of making direct grants for franchises in municipalities and may determine their terms and scope.
A grant to lay pipes and conduits in the streets of a municipality,
dependent only upon acceptance, is not to be regarded as accepted
foot by foot as pipes are laid, but in an entirety for all the streets of
the municipality; and after acceptance and preparation for compliance with the offer the grant cannot be withdrawn as to the streets
in which pipes have not been laid. Such action would impair the
contract.
The duty of a public service corporation to extend its service to meet
reasonable demands of the community is correlative to the obligation
of the municipality to allow.the service to be extended as required by
the public needs.
In this case the public service corporation having, by accepting the
offer of the State and making the investment, committed itself irrevocably to the undertaking, it was entitled to continue to lay pipes

RUSSELL v. SEBASTIAN.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the streets whenever necessary to extend its service, and it could
not be prevented from doing so by subsequent legislation impairing
the grant.
The amendment of 1911 to § 19 of art. XI of the California constitution of 1879 as amended in 1884 and municipal ordinances of Los
Angeles adopted in pursuance thereof, were ineffectual under the
contract clause of the Federal Constitution to deprive a corporation
which had accepted the offer of the State, contained in § 19 before
the amendment, of its right to continue to lay pipes in the streets of
Los Angeles in accordance with the general regulations of the
municipality in regard to such.work.
163 California, 668, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction and constitutionality under the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution of provisions of the constitution of California in regard to right of gas and water companies to
excavate streets in municipalities for their mains, and the
application of such provisions to such corporations in the
City of Los Angeles, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Garret W. McEnerney and Mr. Oscar A. Trippet,
with whom Mr. Warren Gregory, Mr. H. H. Trowbridge and
Mr. W. H. Chickering were on the brief, for plaintiff in

error.
Mr. Ray E. Nimmo and Mr. Albert Lee Stephens, with
whom Mr. John W. Shenk and Mr. William J. Ctrr were

on the brief, for defendant in error.
By leave of the court, Mr. Charles S. Wheeler and Mr.
John F. Bowie filed a brief as amici curia.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to review a judgment in a habeas
corpus proceeding. 163 California, 668.
The plaintiff in error was arrested, on or about Febru.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

ary 27, 1912, upon the charge of excavating in a: street
of Los Angeles in violation of a municipal ordinance. He
was acting on behalf of the Economic Gas Company, a
corporation supplying inhabitants of the city with gas,
and was engaged in.preparing to lay its pipes in a street
which it had not previously used. The company was proceeding under a claim of right based upon § 19 of art. XI
of the state constitution of 1879, as amended in 1884,
which was as follows:
"SEC. 19. In any city where there are no public works
owned and controlled by the municipality for supplying
the same with water or artificial light, any individual, or
any company duly incorporated for such purpose, under
and by authority of the laws of this state, shall, under
the direction of the superintendent of streets, or other
officer in control thereof, and under such general regulations as the municipality may prescribe, for damages and
indemnity for damages, have the privilege of using the
public streets and thoroughfares thereof, and of laying
down pipes and conduits therein, and connections therewith, so far as may'be necessary for introducing into and
supplying such city and its inhabitants, either with gaslight, or other illuminating light, or with fresh water for
domestic and all other purposes, upon the condition
that the municipal government shall have the right to
regulate the charges thereof."
On October 10, 1911, this section of the constitution
was amended by the substitution of the following provision:
"SEC. 19. Any municipal corporation may establish
and operate public works for supplying its inhabitants
with light, water, power, heat, transportation, telephone
service or other means of communication. Such works
may be acquired by original construction or by the purchase of existing works, including their franchises, or
both. Persons or corporations may establish and operate

RUSSELL v. SEBASTIAN.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

works for supplying the inhabitants with such services
upon such conditions and under such regulations as the
municipality may prescribe under its organic law, on
condition that the municipal government shall have the
right to regulate the charges thereof. A municipal corporation may furnish such services to inhabitants outside
its boundaries; provided, that it shall not furnish any service to the inhabitants of any other municipality owning
or operating works supplying the same service to such
inhabitants, without the consent of such other municipality, expressed by ordinance."
Thereupon, by ordinance approved October 26, 1911,
the city of Los Angeles provided that no one should exercise any franchise or privilege to lay or maintain pipes
or conduits in the streets for conveying gas, water, etc.,
without having obtained a grant from the city in accordance with the city's charter and the procedure prescribed
by the ordinance, unless such person (or corporation)
might be "entitled to do so by direct and unlimited authority of the constitution of the State of California, or
of the constitution or laws of the United States." Another ordinance, approved February 21, 1912, declared
that it should be unlawful to make any excavation in a
street for any purpose without written permission from the
board of public works, and that before issuing the permit
the board should require the applicant to show legal
authority to use the streets for the purpose specified.
It was under the last-mentioned ordinance that the
charge was laid against the plaintiff in error. A writ of
habeas corpus was sued out upon the ground that the
municipal legislation, and the constitutional amendment
upon which it rested, so far as they interfered with the
extension by the company of its lighting system within
the city, impaired the obligation of the company's con-.
tract with the State in violation of Art. I, § 10, of the Federal Constitution, and also deprived it of its property

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

without due process of law, and denied to it the equal
protection of the laws, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. The writ was returnable before the Supreme Court
of the State.
It appeared that the Economic Gaslight Company was
organized in 1909 and thereupon undertook to manufacture and distribute gas within the city for lighting purposes. As there were no gas works owned and controlled
by the city, the constitutional provision (as it stood before the amendment of 1911) applied. Having acquired
an existing plant, which had been established under the
authority of that provision, the company had extended
its system so that, prior to October 10, 1911, it had many
miles of mains and was serving upwards of 3500 customers.
Its plant had been established with a view to an increased
demand for its service. Its situation, as disclosed by the
petition, which was not traversed, was thus described by
the state court: The petitioner "shows that the works of
said company were established and operated with the
intent to supply gas in every section of the city and to
lay pipes in every 'street, if necessary for that purpose,
that to this end it constructed works of a size sufficient
to supply gas to a much larger territory than it was
supplying prior to October 10, 1911, and had expended in
so doing $100,000 more than would have been required
for works to supply only the territory reached by its
pipes at that date, that it had laid and maintained its
pipes in many streets of the city and had supplied gas
thereby to the inhabitants in such streets for more than
two years before said date, that prior to said date, said
company had made contracts with many of the inhabitants of the city to supply gas to them, that said contracts
were still in force, and that, in order to perform them, it
must extend its mains into streets not before used by it.
All its works before that date were constructed in accordance with the provisions of the constitution existing

RUSSELL v. SEBASTIAN.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

prior to said amendment and in compliance with existing
regulations and directions of the city authorities." The
petition also sets forth that by reason of the increased
expense of construction of its plant, as above stated, it
could not supply at a profit the territory contiguous
to the streets actually used by it at the date of the amendment, and that to confine its service to that territory
would entail upon the company a constant loss of more
than $2,000 a month.
It was further averred that on February 23, 1912, the
company had applied to the board of public works for
permission to excavate in the designated street, not theretofore occupied by it, for the purpose of extending its
distributing system in accordance with the former provision of the constitution, offering to comply with the
general regulations of the city with respect to damages
and indemnity for damages. The board informed the
company that there were no general regulations on the
subject with which it had not complied, but that the
company would not be pe:maitted to open the street,
or to lay its pipes therein, unless it first sought and obtained a franchise by purchase in accordance with the
ordinance of October 26, 1911. Thereupon, the company
notified the board that it would extend its mains at the
time and place stated and requested the board to direct
and superintend the work. It was proceeding accordingly
to open a trench for its mains when it was stopped by the
arrest of the plaintiff in error.
The Supreme Court of the State held that the constitutional amendment authorized the city to enact the ordinances in question and thus to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which franchises of the character described might thereafter be obtained and exercised. It
was further decided that the grant under the former
constitutional provision took effect only upon acceptance;
that the only means whereby an effectual manifestation

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court,

233 U. S.

of acceptance could be made was the act of taking pos*session and occupying the street for the purpose allowed;
and hence that the vested right of the Economic Gas
Company, at the time the constitution was changed,
went only so far as its actual occupancy and use of the
streets then extended. Concluding, upon this ground,
that the company had no authority to lay pipes in the
new street in order to extend its service into new territory
within the city, the petitioner was remanded to custody.
163 California, 677, 678, 681.
It is at once apparent that the question thus raised does
not ,concern the power of the city to supervise the execution of the work. That, as well as the authority to regulate
rates, was expressly secured by the constitutional provision
upon which the claim is founded. Nor does that provision
permit the assertion of an exclusive franchise. The city
may not only authorize others to compete, but it may comMadera Water Works v. Madera, 228 U. S. 454.
itself. these
pete
Within
recognized limits, the question remains
as to the nature and extent of the right acquired by the
company prior to the constitutional amendment,-a
question which, in view of he appeal to the clause of the
Federal Constitution prohibiting state legislation impairing the obligation of contracts, it is the duty of this
court to determine for itself. Douglas v. Kentucky, 168
U. S. 488, 502; Northern Pacific Railway v. Duluth, 208
U. S. 583, 590; Grand Trunk Western Railway v. South
Bend, 227 U. S. 544, 551; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co.
v. City of Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548, 556.
1. Before the constitution of 1879, the right to lay
pipes in streets rested in grant from the legislature. It
could delegate to the municipality, or itself exercise, the
power. Experience had produced the conviction that
this authority was abused; that favoritism had fostered
monopolies and restrained the competition that was then
thought to be desirable. In order to terminate these

RUSSELL v. SEBASTIAN.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

evils, the unique plan was decided upon of making street
franchises, for thb purpose of supplying water and artificial light, the subject of direct grant by the constitution
itself without requiring any action on the part of the
legislature .to give it force. That this was the purpose
and effect of § 19 of art. XI of the constitution of 1879
was decided by the Supreme Court of California in People
v. Stephens, 62 California, 209, shortly after that constitution was adopted. See also Pereria v. Wallace, 129
California, 397; In re Johnston, 137 California, 115;
.DenningerV. Recorder's Court, 145 California, 629; Stockton Gas'& Electric Co. v. San Joaquin County, 148 California, 313; South Pasadenav. Pasadena Land & Water
Co., 152. California, 579.
It is pointed out that the language of the provision was
genefal both with respect to persons and to places; that it
embraced all the cities in the State; and that it did not
provide for any formal or written acceptance of the offer.
But the lack of a requirement of an acceptance of a formal
character did not preclude -acceptance in fact. Nor did
the generality of the provision with respect to all persons
and cities make it impossible for particular persons to acquire rights thereunder in particular cities. It is clear
that the offer was to be taken distributively with respect
to municipalities. It referred to "'any city where there
are no public works owned and controlled by the municipality for supplying the same with water or artificial
light;" and when as to such a city the offer was accepted,
the grant became as effective as if it had been made specially to the accepting individual or corporation.. (See
Stanislaus County v. San Joaquin Co., 192 U. S.201, 206.)
In the case of In re Johnston, supra, the court *said
(p. 119): "In People v. Stephens, 62 California, 209, the
above section" (referring to § 19 of art. XI) "was construed
by this court to be a direct grant from the people to the
persons therein designated of the right to lay pipes in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

streets of a city for the purpose specified, without waiting
for legislative authority, or being subject to any restrictions from that branch of the government. . . . The
only limitations upon this privilege are those contained
in the language in which it is granted,-viz., that the work
shall be done 'under the direction of the superintendent
of streets, or other officer in control thereof,' and 'under
such general regulations as the municipality may prescribe
for damages and indemnity for damages."' As it was
succinctly stated in Clark v. Los Angeles, 160 California,
30, 39, "The express grant made by section 19 is of the
privilege, franchise, or easement to place in the public
streets of a city the conduits necessary or convenient for
the business of supplying light or power to the city and its
inhabitants. It may be accepted by any person, or by any
company duly incorporated to engage in that business."
When the voice of the State declares that it is bound
if its offer is accepted, and the question simply is with
respect to the scope of the obligation, we should be slow
to conclude that only a revocable license was intended.
Moreover the provision plainly contemplated the establishment of a plant devoted to the described public service
and an assumption of the duty to perform that service.
That the grant, resulting from an acceptance of the State's
offer, constituted a contract, and vested in the accepting
individual or corporation a property right, protected by
the Federal Constitution, is not open to.dispute in view of
the repeated decisions of this court. New Orleans Gas Co.
v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S.650, 660; New Orleans
Water Works Co. v. Rivers, 115 U. S.674, 680,'681; Walla
Walla v. Walla Walla Co., 172 U. S. 1, 9; Louisville v.
Cumberland Telephone Co., 224 U. S.649, 663, 664; Grand
Trunk Rwy. Co. v. South Bend, 227 U. S.544, 552; Owensboro v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 230 U. S.58, 65; Boise
Water Co. v. Boise City, 230 U. S. 84, 90, 91. Dillon on
Municipal Corporations, 5th ed., § 1242.

RUSSELL v. SEBASTIAN.
233 U. S.

Opinion (if the Court.

2. The controversy in the present case relates to the
extent to which the grant had become effective through acceptance. It is not contended that the change in the constitution could disturb the company's rights in the streets
used previous to the amendment; but it is insisted that
such actual user measured the range of the acceptance
of the grant and hence defined the limits of its operation.
In support of this view, the established and salutary
rule is invoked that public grants are to be construed
strictly in favor of the public; that ambiguities are to be
resolved against the grantee. Charles River Bridge v.
Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 546, 549; Slidell v. GrandJean,
111 U. S. 412, 437; Detroit Citizens' Rwy. Co. v. Detroit
Railway, 171 U. S. 48, 54; Knoxville Water Co. v. Knoxville,
200 U. S, 22, 34; Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400, 471. It
has often been stated, as one of the reasons for the rule,
that statutes and ordinances embodying such grants are
usually drawn by interested parties and that it serves to
frustrate efforts through the skillful use of words to accomplish purposes which are not apparent upon the face of the
enactment. Dubuque & Pacific R. R. Co. v. Litchfield, 23
How. 66, 88; Slidell v. GrandJean,supra; Blair v. Chicago,
supra. But it must also be recognized that this urinciple
of construction does not deny to public offers a air and
reasonable interpretation, or justify the withholding of
that which it satisfactorily appears the grant was intended
to convey. Winona & St. Peter R. R. Co. v. Barney, 113
U. S. 618, 625; United States v. D. & R. G. Rwy. Co., 150
U. S. 1, 14; Minneapolis v. Street Rwy. Co., 215 U. S. 417,
427. Here, the provision was presented by a constitutional
convention for adoption by the people as the deliberate expression of the policy of the State in order to secure the
benefits of competition in public service, and it will not be
questioned that it must receive, as the state court said in
People v. Stephens (62 California, p. 233), "a practical,
common-sense construction.,"

206'.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

There is no ambiguity as to the scope of the offer. It
was-not simply of a privilege to maintain pipes actually
laid, but to lay pipes so far as they might be required in
order to effect an adequate distribution. The privilege
was defined as that "of using the public streets and thoroughfares thereof, and of laying down pipes and conduits
therein, and connections therewith, so far as may be necessary for introducing into and supplying such city and its
inhabitants either with gaslight, or other illuminating
light, or with fresh water for domestic and all other purposes, upon the condition that the municipal government
shall have the right toregulate the charges thereof."
The breadth of the offer was commensurate with the
requirements of the undertaking which was invited. The
service to which the provision referred was a community
service. It was the supply of a municipality-which had
no municipal works-with water or light. This would
involve, in the case of water-works, the securing of sources
of supply, the provision of conduits for, conveying the
water to the municipality, and the permanent investrfient
in the construction of reservoirs with suitable storage
capacity; and, in the case of gas-works, the establishment
of a manufacturing plant on a scale large enough to meet
the demands that could reasonably be anticipated. But
water-works and gas-works constructed to furnish a municipality with water or light would, of course, be useless
without distributing systems; and the right -of laying in
the streets the mains needed to carry the water or gas to
the inhabitants of the community was absolutely essential
to the undertaking as a practical enterprise. This, the
constitutional provision recognized. It was clearly designed to stop favoritism in granting-such rights, not to
withhold them. It is not to be supposed that it was expected that water-works and gas-works of the character
required to supply cities would be erected without grants
of franchises to use the streets for laying the necessary

RUSSELL v, SEBASTIAN.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

distributing pipes. Boise Water Co. v. Boise City, 230
U. S. 84, 91. The scheme of the constitutional provision
was not to make it impossible to secure such grants, or
to restrict the street rights to be acquired, but, as already
stated, to end the existing abuses by making these grants
directly through the constitution itself instead of permitting them to be made by the legislature or by municipalities acting under legislative authority. People v. Stephens,
62 California, 209.
In deciding upon the policy of making these direct
grants it was for the State to determine their terms and
their scope; it could have imposed whatever conditions
it saw fit to impose. But it did not attempt to confine the
privilege to particular streets or areas, or to make the
laying of the necessary pipes conditional upon the renewal
of the offer street by street, or foot by foot, as the pipes
were put in the ground. The people of the State decided
that local superintendence of the execution of the work,
regulations and indemnity with respect to damages, and
the continuing authority of the municipality to regulate
rates, would be adequate protection. It was upon this
basis that the State offered the privilege of laying pipes in
the streets so far as might "be necessary for introducing
into and supplying such city and its inhabitants" either
with water or light as the case might be. The individual
or corporation undertaking to supply the city with water
or light was put in the same position as though such individual or corporation had received a special grant of the
described street rights in the city which was to be served.
Such a grant would not be one of several distinct and
separate franchises. When accepted and acted upon it
would become binding-not foot by foot, as pipes were
laid-but as an entirety, in accordance with its purpose
and express language: Grand Trunk Rwy. Co. v. South
Bend, 227 U. S. 544, 555, 556.
It is urged that, in the absence of any provision for

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

formal or written acceptance, the only Way the offer could
be accepted was by use of the streets, and that for this
reason the rights of the company could not extend beyond
the length of its pipes in place. But this is to say that the
offer as made could not be accepted at all; that the right
to lay pipes could not in any event be acquired. It is to
assume, despite the explicit statement of the constitutional
provision, that the investment in extensive plants-in the
construction of reservoirs, and in the building of manufacturing works-was invited without any assurance that
the laying of the distributing system could be completed
or that it could even be extended far enough to afford any
chance of profit. It would be to deny the right offered,
although essential to the efficacy of the enterprise, and in
its place to give a restricted and inadequate right, which
was unexpressed.
In view of the nature of the undertaking in contemplation, and of the terms of the offer, we find no ground for
the conclusion that each act of laying pipe was to constitute an acceptance pro tanto. We think that the offer
was intended to be accepted in its entirety as made, and
that acceptance lay in conduct committing the person
accepting to the described service. The offer was made
to the individual or corporation undertaking to serve the
municipality, and when that service was entered upon and
the individual or corporation had changed its position
beyond recall, we cannot doubt that the offer was accepted.
City Railway Co. v. Citizens R. R. Co., 166 U. S. 557, 568;
Grand Trunk Rwy. Co. v. South Bend, supra. In this view,
the grant embraced the right to lay the extensions that
Were needed in furnishing the supply within the city.
This construction of the constitutional provision is the
only one that is compatible with the existence of the duty
which it was intended, as it seems to us, that the recipient
of the State's grant should assume. The service, as has
been said, was a community service. Incident to the

RUSSELL v. SEBASTIAN.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

undertaking in response to the State's offer was the obligation to provide facilities that were reasonably adequate.
Lumbard v. Stearns, 4 Cush. 60; Cumberland Tel. Co. v.
Kelly, 160 Fed. Rep. 316, 324; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co.
v. North CarolinaCorp. Com'n, 206 U. S. 1, 27; People ex rel.
Woodhaven Gas Co. v. Deehan, 153 N. Y. 528, 533; Morawetz on Corporations, § 1.129. It would not be said that
either a water company or a gas company, establishing
its service under the constitutional grant, could stop its
mains at its pleasure and withhold its supply by refusing
to extend its distributing conduits so as to meet the reasonable requirements of the community. But this duty
and the right to serve, embracing the right under the
granted privilege to install the means of service, were
correlative.
In People ex rel. Woodhaven Gas Co. v. Deehan, supra
(approved in Illinois CentralR. R. Co. v. Chicago, 176 U. S.
646, 666) a grant of authority to lay conduits for conveying gas through the streets of a town, so as to render service to the people of the town, was held to extend as a
property right not only to the streets then existing, but
to those subsequently opened. The court said (p. 533):
"It is well known that business enterprises such as the
relator is engaged in are based upon calculations of future
growth and expansion. . A franchise for supplying gas not
only confers a privilege, but imposes an obligation, upon
the corporation to serve the public in a reasonable way.
The relator is bound to supply gas to the people of the
town upon certain conditions and under certain circumstances, and it would be most unjust to give such a construction to the consent as to disable it from performing
its obligations. It cannot reasonably 'be contended that
the relator is obliged to apply for a new grant whenever
a new street is opened or an old one extended, as would be
the case if the consent applied only to the situation existing
when made. When the right to use the streets has been
voL. ccxxxiI-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

once granted in general terms to a corporation engaged
in supplying gas for public and private use, such grant
necessarily contemplates that new streets are to be opened
and old ones extended from time to time, and so the privilege may be exercised in the new streets as well as in the
old."
As to the question of fact, the present case presents
no
controversy. It was averred, and not denied, that the
works of the gas company were established and operated
with the intent to furnish gas throughout the city, wherever needed, and that this enterprise had been diligently
prosecuted; that a large investment had been made in a
plant which was adequate to supply a much greater territory than that reached by the distributing mains when the.
amendment of 1911 was adopted; that the expense of this
installation made it impossible to supply at a profit the
limited territory contiguous to the streets then actually
occupied by the company; and that if it were confined in
its service to that territory it would sustain a constant loss.
The company, by its investment, had irrevocably committed itself to the undertaking and its acceptance of the
offer of the right to lay its pipes, so far as necessary to
serve the municipality, was complete.
We conclude that the constitutional amendment of
1911, and the municipal ordinances adopted in pursuance
thereof, were ineffectual to impair this right, and that the
company was entitled to extend its mains for the purpose
of distributing its supply to the inhabitants of the city
subject to the conditions set forth in the constitutional
provision as it stood before the amendment.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

