OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

the proper officers of the Government would have allowed
these operations to continue." The supposition is easily
answered. There is no scheme of improvement of navigation suggested by the bill and it cannot be supposed that
the Secretary of War would authorize the Gravel Company to take material from the river for commercial
purpose, and the bill alleges such to be the purpose. Besides, if the Gravel Company had authority from the
Secretary of War, it is a matter of defence to be pleaded.
The Gravel Company further charges that considering
the allegations of the ,bill and the muniments of title attached to it there is exhibited a possible failure to plead
such title in plaintiff as would carry with it even a qualified
ownership in the bed of the stream. We do not think so.
At any rate, the bill is sufficient against a general demurrer
Judgment reversed.

HERBERT v. BICKNELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF, THE TERRITORY OF
HAWAII.
No. 269.

Submitted March 12, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

The Hawaiian Supreme Court having held that leaving a copy of the
summons at the place where defendant last had stopped amounted to

leaving it at his usual abode within § 2114, Rev. Laws of Hawaii, this
court will not disturb the judgment.
The law assumes that property is always in the possession of its owner
in person or by agent, and proceeds on the theory that its seizure will
inform him not only that it has been taken into custody but that he
must look to any proceeding authorized by law upon such seizure for
its condemnation and sale; and so held that an attachment and
judgment under § 2114, Rev. Stat. Hawaii, does not on account of
its provisions for service of the summons by leaving it at his last
known place of abode deprive a non-resident of any rights guaranteed
by the Fifth Amendment. Pennoyerv. Neff, 95 U. S. 714.
The existence of a garnishment statute is notice to the owner of claims
that he must be ready to be represented in case the debt is attached.

HERBERT ,,. BICKNELL.
233 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

In this case, as the defendant whose property was attached under
§ 2114, Rev. Stat. Hawaii, had knowledge of the attachment and
judgment before the time for writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the Territory had expired, he should have pursued that remedy and
not suffered default and attempted to quash on the ground of want
of due process in the service.
20 Hawaii, 132, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment
rendered by the courts of Hawaii and based on service of
process under § 2114, Rev. Law of Hawaii, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. William R. Castle, Mr. David L. Withington, Mr. W.
A. Greenwell and Mr. Alfred L. Castle for plaintiff in error:
The District Court of Honolulu was without jurisdiction. It is a court of special and limited jurisdiction, and
there is no presumption in favor of that jurisdiction.
Organic Act, April 30, 1900, § 81; Rev. Laws, 1905, §§ 125,
1662-1666; Hang Lung Kee v. Bickerton, 4 Hawaii, 584.
Not having acquired jurisdiction either by personal
service or by seizure of property, there was no jurisdiction
to render judgment against the defendant. Rev. Laws,
§§ 2251-2255, 2256.
The existence of property of the defendant within the
jurisdiction, in a case like this, is essentially necessary to
the exertion of the power of the court to render a binding
decree. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Chase v. Wetzler,
225 U. S. 79.
The Hawaiian statute as construed by the Supreme
Court of Hawaii does not provide for due process of law.
It is only in- proceedings strictly in rem that the constructive notice resulting from the seizure is sufficient.
Hollingsworth v. Barbour, 4 Pet. 466.
The defendant in garnishment must be notified in time
to protect his rights by personal service or some form
of substituted service. Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Sturm,
174 U. S.710.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

The proper publication must be made. Harris v. Balk,
198 U. S. 215; 20 Cyc. 1033, 1048, 1054.
A fundamental condition under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments is that there shall be notice and opportunity for hearing given the parties. Twining v. New
Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 111; Earle v. McVeigh, 91 U. S. 503.
A lodging house where the defendant is temporarily
stopping is not a last and usual place of abode, within the
meaning of the statute. Fitzgerald v. Salentine, 10 Met.
436; White v. Primm, 36 Illinois, 416; Hennings v. Cunningham (N. J.), 59 Atl. Rep. 12; Zacharie v. Richards, 6
Mart. (N. S.) 467; Wright v. Oakley, 5 Met. 400; Craig v.
Gisborne, 13 Gray, 270; Missouri Trust Co. v. Norris, 61
Minnesota, 256; 63 N. W. Rep. 634; Sturgis v. Fay, 16
Indiana, 429; 79 Am. Dec. 440; Honeycutt v. Nyquist, 12
Wyoming, 183.
Section 2114 is misquoted by the court. The language
of the law is that unless the defendant be an inhabitant
of this Territory, or has some time resided there, and then
a like copy shall be served personally upon him, or left at
his last and usual plice of abode. Earle v. McVeigh, supra.
Notice by service on the same day does not fulfill the
constitutional requirement. United States v. Fisher, 222
U. S. 204; Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 399.
No brief was filed for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of assumpsit begun on June 30, 1909,
in the District Court of Honolulu, by garnishment and
leaving a copy of the summons at a place which according
to the return was the defendant's last and usual place of
abode, he being absent from the Territory. The defendant did not appear and the plaintiff got judgment against
the fund on July 2, 1909. No appeal or writ of error was

HERBERT v. BICKNELL.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

taken, but on December 31, 1909, the time for suing out
a writ of error not having expired, the defendant appeared
specially and moved to quash the service and set aside the'
judgment on the ground that the record showed that there
was not sufficient service upon him to comply with the
Fourteenth Amendment and the laws of Hawaii. The
motion was accompanied by an affidavit to the effect that
the defendant had changed his domicil to Australia before
the beginning of this suit, that he had returned and lived
for a month in January and February, 1909, at the place
where the summons was left, and then had gone back to
Australia; and that his last and usual place of abode (before his change of domicil, as we understand it), was at
Waikiki. The District Court overruled the motion and its
judgment was affirmed by -he Supreme Court.
The argument for the plaintiff in error assumes a wider
range than is open upon this motion. The Supreme Court
says that the question whether the evidence was sufficient
to support the judgment cannot be raised in this way, and
we should follow the decision even if it seemed less obviously reasonable than it -does. Montoya v. Gonzales, 232
U. S. 375, 376. Moreover, the only errors assigned here
are in holding that the service prescribed by § 2114, Rev.
Laws of Hawaii as construed by the court, and that leaving a copy of the summons as above stated after garnishment of a debt due to the defendant, were sufficient to
meet the requirements of the Fifth Amendment; (the court
having assumed that the defendant referred to the Fifth
when he mentioned the Fourteenth in his motion below).
The Supreme Court was of opinion that, if the question
was open, leaving a copy of the summons at the place
where the defendant last had stopped was leaving it at
his last and usual place of abode within § 2114. On that
point we see no sufficient reason for disturbing, the judgment. Phonix Ry. Co. v. Landis, 231 U. S. 578, 579.
Really the only matter before us that calls for a word is

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. Sj

the decision that a judgment appropriating property
within the jurisdiction to payment of the owner's debt,
which would be good if the property itself were the defendant, is not made bad by the short and somewhat illusory notice to the owner. Upon this point the court
below relied upon the above § 2114 and Pennoyer v. Neff,
95 U. S. 714, 727: "The law assumes that property is always in the possession of its owner, in person or by agent;
and it proceeds upon the theory that the seizure will inform
him, not only that it is taken into the custody of the court,
but that he must look to any proceeding authorized by
law upon such seizure for its condemnation and sale."
It has been said from of old that seizure is notice to the
owner. Scott v. Shearman, 2 W. Bl. 977, 979. Mankin v.
Chandler, 2 Brock. 125, 127. See Cooper v. Reynolds, 10
Wall. 308, 317.
Summons of the defendant's debtor by garnishment is
given like effect in express terms by § 2114. "Such notice
[i. e. service on the- garnishee] shall be sufficient notice to
the defendant to enable the-plaintiff to bring his action
to trial unless the defendant be an inhabitant of this Territory, 'or has some time resided therein, and then a like
copy shall be served personally upon him, or left at his
last and usual place of abode." This statute was in force,
no doubt, before the debt garnisheed was contracted and
gave the defendant notice that he must be ready to be
represented in order to save a default if the debt was attached. If he had appeared, nothing shows that proper
time would not have been allowed to produce evidence at
the trial. The District Court has jurisdiction over small
debts only. Rev. Laws of Hawaii, § 1662. Its proceedings
naturally are somewhat summary. It appears that the
defendant had knowledge of the action before the time
for a writ of err6r had expired and when it may be that it
still would have been possible to set aside the judgment
and to retry the case. He did not adopt the course that

KANSAS SOUTHERN RY. v. KAW VALLEY DIST.
233 U. S.

75

Statement of the-Case.

would have opened effective groiud of attack even as the
record stood. We cannot discover that he has suffered
any injustice-still less that he has been subjected to an
unconstitutional wrong.
Judgment affirmed.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. KAW VALLEY DRAINAGE DISTRICT.
KANSAS. CITY TERMINAL RAILWAY. COMPANY v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

Nos. 313, 314.

Argued March 19, 20, 1914.-Decided A ril 6, 1914.

This court will read pleadings as a:leging what they fairly would convey
to an ordinarily intelligent lawyer by a -fairly exact use of English
speech. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375.
This court must takethe judgment under review as it standsand if it is
absolute and not conditional it cannot be qualified byspeculation as
to what may in fact happen.
An out and out order of a state court to remove a bridge that is a necessary part of a line of interstate commerce is an interference with
such commerce and with a matter that is under the exclusive control
of Congress.
Interstate commerce is not a matter that is left to the control of the
States until further action by Congress; nor is the freedom of that
commerce from interference by the States confined to laws only; it
'extends to interference by any ultimate organ.
A direct interference by the State with interstate commerce cannot be
justified by the police power; and so held that the destruction of, a
bridge across which an interstate railroad line necessarily passes
cannot be justified by the fact that it helps the drainage of a district.
Quwre, whether a consent by a Drainage District to the construction
of a railroad bridge is not to be regarded as alicense rather than an
abdication of the continuing powers of the District to require subsequent elevation of the bridge.
.87 Kansas, 272, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and validity,

