DENVER & R. G. R. It. v. ARIZ. & COL. R. R.
233 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

DENVER AND RIO GRANDE RAILROAD COMPANY v. ARIZONA AND COLORADO RAILROAD
COMPANY OF NEW MEXICO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.
No. 188.

Argued April 22, 1914.-Decided May 11, 1914.

This court is slow to disturb the decision of the Supreme Court of a
Territory in regard to matters of local practice and the construction
of state statutes. Nadal v: May, ante, p. 447.
While the-record of proceeding3 of a board of directors, when made, is
the best evidence, if it is found that no record was made, the admission of secondary evidence is not reversible error. Bank of the
United States v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 64.
This court sees no reason for reversing the Supreme Court of the
holding that a railroad company was
Territory of New Mexico ina
entitled under §§ 3850 and 3874, Compiled Laws, to protection as
soon as its final location waa com! leted.
Under the circumstances of this case, the plaintiff railroad company
was not guilty of laches in the location and protection of its right of
way.
A defendant railroad company acquires no new rights by going ahead
with location and construction after a suit has been commenced by
another company claiming a prior location.
16 New Mex. 281, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the conflicting claims of two
railroad companies to a right of way in New Mexico, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. E. N. Clark, with whom Mr. Joel F. Vaile and
Mr. R.G. Lucas were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. T. B. Catron, with whom Mr. B. W. Riuer was on
the brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a bill brought by the appellee, a corporation of
New Mexico, to restrain the appellant from entering upon
and interfering in various ways with its right of way.
After a trial the plaintiff (appellee) got a decree, conditioned, as to the portions of the line then occupied by the
defendant in the actual operation of its railway, upon the
plaintiff's constructing at least twenty-one miles of
railroad, &c., and limited as a whole to five years from the
date of the decree. This was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the Territory. 16 New Mex. 281. See 13 New
Mex. 345. There are fifty-eight assignments of error, but
the propositions argued fall into narrower compass. They
are, that the plaintiff never adopted the line it claims; that
there was no appropriation of the land until the plaintiff's
location map was filed, after the beginning of this suit;
that the plaintiff has lost whatever rights it had by laches
and inability to construct its line; that there is no irreparable injury or other ground for equitable relief; and
that the plaintiff had adequate remedies under the condemnation statutes and by ejectment. So far as they need
discussion we will take these up in turn.
It is found that the plaintiff adopted the line in question; but it is argued that this finding is shown to be
wrong as matter of law by reason of specific facts set
forth in findings of the Supreme Court made, after the
delivery of its opinion, in addition to those adopted from
the court below. These are that certain small portions
of the line between the northern boundary of the State
and the town of Farmington are-not covered by any order
of adoption on the part of the directors shown by the
records, and that the finding that those portions were
adopted is based on the oral testimony of the plaintiff's
chief engineer. (We do not stop to notice a slight contra-

DENVER & R. G. R. R. v. ARIZ. & COL. R. R.
233 U. S.

603

Opinion of the Court.

diction in form between different parts of the findings, as
the meaning is perfectly clear.) The argument is that
adoption by the directors is necessary, which is admitted,
and that, as the Compiled Laws of 1897, § 3832, require the
directors to keep a complete record of all proceedings in a
special book, such record is the only admissible evidence
of the fact. But this is a matter of local practice and the
construction of a local statute, as to which we should be

slow to disturb the decision of the local court. Nadal v.
May, this term ante, p. 447. The statute does not in
terms purport to make the validity of the directors'
action dependent upon being recorded. No doubt the
record when made would be the best evidence, but it
being found that no record Was made, the admission of
secondary evidence is no ground for reversing the decree.
Bank of the United States v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 64, 69.

In the opinion of the couct this question is avoided, but
the finding subsequently added, coupled with the finding
that the line was adopted, imports the ruling of law that
we have supposed.
The next objection is that the maps of the disputed
portion of the road were not filed as required by §3874
until the day after this suit was begun, and attention is
called to §3850 which requires a petition for condemnation to set forth that the company has surveyed the
line of its proposed road and made a map thereof and that
it has located its road according to such survey. But by
§3874 the company is not required to record its map until
'within a reasonable time after its road shall have been
finally located,' which it is found to have done, and again
we see no sufficient reason for reversing the decision of the
local court that a company is entitled to' protection as soon
as its final location is complete. Wheeling,. B. & T. Ry.
Co. v. Camden Cons. Oil Co., 35 W. Va. 205, 209.

Next it is said that the plaintiff has been guilty of laches.
But it is found that the defendant with full knowledge

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

threatened and intended to take and occupy and has
crossed and recrossed the plaintiff's location at many
points and different grades, with circumstances not
necessary to be detailed, and thus has made it impracticable for the plaintiff to proceed. It is found also that in
the location and acquisition of its line the plaintiff proceeded with due diligence, and in good faith, and that it
had expended more than one hundred thousand dollars
in the location arid securing rights of way before the
beginning of this suit. The defendant has gone ahead
since the suit was begun, but of course has acquired no
new rights by doing so. The objections to equitable
jurisdiction do not need separate discussion. The line is
found to be the best line between the points and the
plaintiff is entitled to it. It neither is to be forced into a
compulsory sale nor to be remitted to legal or statutory
remedies that rightly are thought to be inadequate by the
local court.
Decree affirmed.

GOMPERS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO, APPEAL FROM AND ON PETITION FOR CERTIORARI
TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Nos. 640, 574. Argued January 7, 8, 1914; restored to docket for reargument April 6, 1914; reargued April 20, 21, 1914.-Decided May 11,1914.
While this court cannot review by appeal or writ of error a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia punishing
for 'contempt it may grant a writ of certiorari to review the same.
Where two parties petition for writs of certiorari to review the same
judgment, but the entire matter can be disposed of on one petition,
the other will be denied.
Where the statute of limitations was pleaded, and, after a decision that
it was inapplicable, one general exception was presented on his behalf
in that regard, the rights of the defendant are sufficiently preserved.

