BAER BROS. v. DENVER & R. G. R. R.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

BAER BROTHERS MERCANTILE COMPANY v.
DENVER & RIO GRANDE RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 140.

Argued December 11, 17, 1913.-Decided April 27, 1914.

Awarding reparation for excessive charges in the past and regulating
rates for the future involve the determination of matters essentially
different; while they may be dealt with in one order by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, an order for reparation is not void because
it does not fix the rate for the future.
An order of reparation is made by the Interstate Comfnerce Commission in its quasi-judicial capacity to measure past injuries to a private
shipper, while an order fixing a new rate for the future is made in
its quasi-legislative capacity to prevent future injury to the
public.

An order for reparation for excessive rates in the past is not void because the order invalidates the excessive rate condemnped for the

future. Even though it might be desirable to deal with the entire
matter at the time the joinder of the two subjects-is not jurisdictional.
Although there may be no established through-rate or through-route
between points in different States, the interstate character of the
shipment cannot be destroyed by separating the rates into component
parts and issuing local way-bills.
Where the shipment was actually interstate the Interstate Commerce
Commission has jurisdiction to consider whetlier part of the Patec
which was charged on a local way-bill between -two points in the
same State is excessive.
A failure on the part of one of the carriers of a through interstate shipment to file tariffs cannot defest the jurisdiction of the Interstate
Commerce Commission to award reparation against that carrier for
an unreasonable rate over its part of the haul because that part is
wholly intrastate.
The voluntary dismissal of a suit for recovery of unreasonable rates is
not a bar to a proceeding before the Interstate Commerce Commis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.

sion for a reparation order. A voluntary dismissal is in the nature of
a non-suit and does not operate as a judgment on the merits.
187 Fed. Rep. 485, reversed.
BETWEEN July, 1902 and March, 1907 The Baer Brothers Mercantile Company was engaged in the liquor business
at Leadville, Colorado. During those years it purchased
beer from a brewing company in St. Louis, Missouri,
which delivered the same in carload lots to the Missouri
Pacific, which acknowledged the receipt of the beer "in
good -order to be delivered to the Baer Brothers Company
at Leadville, Colorado, via the Denver & Rio Grande."
No through bill of lading was issued and as the two companies had not established a through route, each shipment was waybilled to Pueblo, Colorado, 923 miles distant, on the Missouri Pacific's local rate of 45 cents per
cwt.. The car was then delivered to the Denver & Rio
Grande with an expense bill which described the shipment
and disclosed the charges paid by or due to the Missouri
Pacific. The Denver & Rio Grande then forwarded the
beer to Leadville, Colorado, 160 miles from Pueblo, at
its local rate of 45 cents per cwt., naming the Missouri
Pacific as consignor and the Baer Company as consignee.
Whether collected in advance at ,St. Louis or at destination in Leadville, the freight was always divided between
the two companies according to their local rates, the
Denver & Rio Grande in every instance receiving 45 cents
per cwt. on every shipment.
The Baer Company insisted that the rate was unreasonable in fact and unjustly discriminatory and in 1906
brought suit, in the United States Circuit Court for the
District of Colorado, against both carriers to recover
from them $6,300, the amount of the unreasonable rate
alleged to have been paid on beer. That suit was voluntarily dismissed by plaintiff upon the publication .of the
decision in the Abilene Cotton Oil Case, 204 U. S. 426.

BAER BROS. v. DENVER & R. G. R. R.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The Baer Company then instituted proceedings before
the Commerce Commission in which it prayed that the
90 cent rate should be, declared unreasonable and unjust;
that the Commission would establish a new and just rate
on beer between St. Louis and Leadville, and that the
two companies be required to pay plaintiff $7,299 as reparation for excess freight paid on beer shipped over the
two lines between July, 1902 and March, 1907.
At the hearing it was admitted that the Missouri
Pacific's charge of 45 cents for the haul of 923 miles from
St. Louis to Pueblo was reasonable. In view of this
admission the subsequent proceedings before the Commission involved an investigation as to the reasonableness of
the Denver & Rio Grande's charge of 45 cents for hauling
beer a distance' of 160 miles, from Pueblo, Colorado, to
Leadville, Colorado. The carrier insisted that in each
instance the beer had been received by it as an independent
shipment at Pueblo, Colorado, where a new waybill was
issued and the car forwarded as an intrastate shipment to
Leadville on an intrastate rate. It claimed that the
Commission had no jurisdiction to inquire as to the
reasonableness of such intrastate rate. It further contended that the rate of 45 cents was just and fair.
It appeared that although no through route had been
established by the two roads, the regular filed tariff of the
Missouri Pacific named 45 cents as the rate on beer
between St. Louis and Pueblo. The Denver & Rio Grande
had filed no tariff under the Commerce Act, but in compliance with the request of the Commission, addressed to
all railroads, it had furnished a copy of tariffs showing its
intrastate rates generally and that the local rate on beer
from Pueblo to Leadville was 45 cents per cwt.
At the conclusion of the hearing, the Commission held
(13 I. C. C. 329) that, even though no through route or
through rate had been established, the Denver & Rio
Grande in hauling this beer was engaged in interstate
VOL. ccxxxi-r-31

,482 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.

commerce; that the mountainous character of the country
through which the road was built and the steep grades
made the cost of operation higher than for a similar distance on the Missouri Pacific, but ruled that, while this
was true, the rate of 45 cents from Pueblo to Leadville was
excessive to the extent of 15 cents per cwt. The. report
concluded as follows (p. 341):
"The prayer of the Complaint is, among other things,
that the Commission fix 'a just rate for the through transportation of beer in carload lots from said city of St.
Louis to said city of Leadville.' There is no suggestion
either in the complaint or in the prayer looking to the
establishment of a joint rate, and that subject was not
referred to.either upon the trial or in the argument. This
being so, we ought not to establish a joinit through rate,
and we do not think that we should undertake by our
order to fix in this proceeding the locals which will make
up the charge for the through movement in the. future.
'There has been no practical difficulty in making these
shipments oyer this route in the past. If the Denver &
Rio Grande does not reduce its charge in accordance with
this report, or if suitable through facilities are denied, the
complainant can file its petition asking the establishment
of a joint through route and rate."
Thereupon the following Reparation Order was entered
April 6, 1908:
"This case being at issue upon complaint and answers
on file, and having been duly heard and submitted by the
parties, and full investigation of the matters and things
involved having been had, and the Commission having,
on the date hereof, made and' filed a report containing its
conclusions thereon:
"It is ordered, That the defendant, The Denver & Rio
Grande Railroad Company, be, and it is hereby, notified
and required to pay unto the complainant, The Baer
Brothers Mercantile Company, of Leadville, Colorado, on

BAER BROS. v. DENVER & R. G. R. R.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

or before the 1st day of June, 1908, the sum of $3,438.27,
with interest thereon at the rate of six per cent per annum
from May 6, 1907, as reparation for excessive and unreasonable charge for the transportation of 2,292,178
pounds of beer from Pueblo, Colordo, to Leadville,
Colorado, as part of a through transportation from St.
Louis, Mo., to said Leadville, as more fully and at large
appears in the report of the Commission in this case."
The Denver & Rio Grande refused to pay the amount
of reparation awarded and thereupon the Baer Company
brought suit against it in the United States Circuit Court
for the District of Colorado., attaching to the complaint
a copy of the award of the Commission.
By demurrer and plea the defendant attacked the
jurisdiction of the Commerce Commission to pass upon
the reasonableness of its rate between Pueblo and Leadville. It further contended that the Commission could
not make an order of reparation unless at the same time,
and as a part of such order, it fixed a through rate to be
charged in the future. These objections were overruled
and thereupon the plaintiff introduced the report and
order of the Commission, proved the weight of the beer
shipped, the rate of freight paid, and that the freight on
beer for the longer distance between St. Louis and Salt
Lake City, via the Missouri Pacific and the Denver &
Rio Grande, was 70 cents per cwt.
The defendant then offered evidence to show that
Leadville was not on the through line and was reached by
a road 42 miles long, the operation of which was unusually
expensive because of the very steep grade throughout
its entire length.
Defendant also introduced testimony for the purpose
of showing that the beer, though forwarded by the Missouri Pacific to be delivered in Leadville, was actually
received at Pueblo by the Denver & Rio Grande as an
independent shipment, as though originating at Pueblo

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

and was then forwarded as an intrastate shipment on a
local waybill. The court overruled the various contentions of the defendant and directed a verdict for the plaintiff for $3,761.45, being the amount of the reparation order, with interest. The court also allowed attorney fees to
the plaintiff. The case was then taken by the Denver &
Rio Grande to the Circuit Court of Appeals which held
(187 Fed. Rep. 485) that it was not necessary to decide
whether the Interstate Commerce Commission had jurisdiction to pass upon the reasonableness of the rate of 45
cents from Pueblo, Colorado, to Leadville, Colorado, saying that "an order of reparation without such an establishment of a reasonable maximum rate is beyond the power
of the Commission and void, and as no such rate was
prescribed and no order forbidding the future use of an
excessive rate was made in the case in hand, the Commission's order of reparation in this case was beyond its power
and void. This conclusion disposes of the case in hand and
renders it impossible for a judgment to be obtained against
the Railroad Company upon the reparation order of the
Commission upon Which the action is based. It is, therefore, unnecessary to consider the other questions in the
case, and the judgment below is reversed." (p. 491). A
mandate issued in which it was "ordered that this case
be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit
Court with direction for further proceedings in accordance
with the views expressed in the opinion of this court."
The Baer Brothers Co. then brought the case here by
writ of error.
Mr. William B. Harrisonfor plaintiff in error.
Mr. E. N. Clark, with whom Mr. Joel F. Vaile and Mr.
J. G. McMurry were on the brief, for defendant in error:
Assuming that the Interstate Commerce Commission
had jurisdiction over the matters in controversy, the
Commission did not comply .with the statutes in making

BAER BROS. v. DENVER & R. G. R. R.
233 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

the order which the court is now asked to enforce. The
rate in question was an established rate. It is immaterial
in this case whether the rate had been established or not.
The plaintiff is estopped to deny in this court that the
rate was established. At the time the complaint was filed
with the Interstate Cormerce Commission, the law required the Commission "to prescribe the maximum rate
to be applied in future. The purpose and plan of interstate commerce legislation cannot be accomplished without imposing upon the Commission the primary duty of
fixing the maximum rate.
There is nothing in the act that requires that the maximum to be established by the Commission for the future
shall coincide with the reasonable rate found for the purpose of reparation.
The Commission could not have been embarrassed in
this case in prescribing a maximum rate for the future.
The Interstate Commerce Commission had no jurisdiction over the rate cf the Denver and Rio Grande
Railroad Company applicable from Pueblo to Leadville
under the circumstances detailed in evidence. The shipments in question, so far as they moved over the railroad
of defendant, were not within the Interstate Commerce
acts. The Commission had no power to deal with defendant's local rate from Pueblo to Leadville.,
In support of these contentions, see Balt. & Ohio R. R.
v. PitcairnCoal Co., 215 U. S. 481; Chi., R. I. & Pac.Ry.
Co. v. Inter. Com. Comm., 171 Fed. Rep. 680; Denver &
R. G. Co. v. Inter. Com. Comm., 195 Fed. Rep. 968; Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Gulf, Col. & S. F. R. Co. v. Texas,
204 U. S. 403; Inter. Corn. Comm. v. Ill. Cen. R. R. Co., 215
U. S. 452; Inter. Com. Comm. v. Lake Shore Ry. Co., 134
Fed. Rep. 942; Inter. Com. Comm. v. Ch., R. I. & Pac. Ry.
Co., 218 U. S. 88; Langdon &c. v. Penna.R. Co., 186 Fed.
Rep. 237; Phila. & R. Ry. Co. v. Inter. Com. Comm., 174
Fed. Rep. 687; Robinson v. Balt. & Ohio R. R. Co., 222

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

U. S. 506; So. Pac. Co. v. Col. Fuel Co., 101 Fed. Rep. 779;
So. Pac. Co. v. Inter. Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 536; Tex. &
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426;
The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
In proceedings before the Commerce Commission the
plaintiff secured an order requiring the defendant to pay
it $3,438.27 as reparation for unreasonable freight-rates
charged and collected, the fixing of a new and just rate
being left for future decision. The carrier failed to make
the payment required and the plaintiff thereupon brought
suit and recovered judgment for the sum awarded together with interest and attorneys' fees. This judgment
was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, which held
that the order was void on its face and could not be the
basis of a recovery for the reason that, while reparation
had been awarded on the ground that the old rate was
unreasonable, the Commission had not fixed a new and
just rate for the future.
1. That the two subjects of Reparation and Rates may
be dealt with in one order is undoubtedly true. Texas &
Pac. Ry. v. Abilene, 204 U. S. 426, 446. Robinson v.
Balt. & Ohio R. R., 222 U. S. 506, 509. But awarding
reparation for the past and fixing rates for the future in'volve the determination of matters essentially different.
One is in its nature private and the other public. One
is made by the Commission in its quasi-judicial capacity to
measure past injuries sustained by a private shipper; the
other, in its qUasi-legislative capacity, to prevent future
injury to the public. But testimony showing the unreasonableness of a past rate may also furnish information
on which to fix a reasonable future rate and both subjects
can be, and often are, disposed of by the same order. This,

BAER BROS.. v. DENVER & R. G. R. R.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

however, is not necessarily so. Indeed, under the original
Commerce Act, the two matters could not possibly be
combined in a single order for the reason that, while at
that time the Commission could order the carrier to desist from unreasonable practices and award damages, it
could not fix rates. This brought about an anomalous
state of affairs. For if the shipper obtained his order of
reparation because of unreasonable charges which the
Railroad Company was ordered to discontinue, a slightly
different, but still unreasonable, rate Might be put in for
the future, which the shipper had to pay and again institute proceedings for reparation. Section 15, act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 384.
2. This situation was dealt with by the Hepburn Act,
which, in addition to the existing power to make reparation, conferred upon the Commission the new power to
make rates for the future. But the two matters were
treated as different subjects and were dealt with in separate sections. Section 4 conferred the power of making
rates. Section 5 gave the Commission power to make
reparation orders Sections 4, 5, act of June 29, 1906,
c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 589, 590. Not only were the two
functions separately treated, but an analysis of the act
shows that there is no such necessary connection between
them as to make the qua8i-judicial order for reparation
depend for its validity upon being joined with a quasilegislative order fixing rates. Persons entitled to one may
have no interest in the other. Persons interested in both
may be entitled to reparation and not to a new rate; or to
a new rate and not to reparation. For example,-ยง 13 (24
Stat. 383) permits "any mercantile, agricultural or
manufacturing society or any body politic or municipal
organization to make complaints against the carrier."
On the application of such bodies, old rates might be
declared unjust and new rates established, but, of course,
no reparation would be given, for the reason that such

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

complainants were not shippers and, therefore, not entitled to an award of pecuniary damages. Cf. Louisville &c.
R. R. v. Int. Com. Comm., 227 ,. S. 88. Then, too, there
are cases in which a rate, reasonable when made, becomes unreasonable as the result of a gradual change in
conditions, so that no reparation is ordered even though
a new rate be established for the future. Anadarko Cotton
Oil Co. v. Atchison &c. Ry., 20 I. C. C. 43. Conversely,
there may be cases where what was an unreasonable rate
in the past is found to be reasonable at the date of the
hearing. In such a case reparation would be awarded for
past unreasonable charges collected but no new rate would
be established for the future.
3. It may, however, be said that even in such a case,
the order while condemning the rate for the past, should
contain a provision validating it for the future. But while
this consideration might show that it was erroneous not
to name the new rate, it would not follow that the order
awarding reparation was void. The Hepburn Act treats
the two subjects as related, but independent. The
grounds of complaiht may be joint or separate, and the
very fact that they may sometimes be separate shows
that the presence of both is not jurisdictional and that the
absence of a provision for one need not operbte to invalidate an order as to the other.
This conclusion is strengthened by considering the
hardships that would result from nullifying a reparation
order for error in omitting a provision for the future rate.
It would punish the shipper for the failure of the Commission. It would deprive him of his award of damages for
his private injury, because of the Commission's omission
to make a rate for tL-e benefit-of the public. The shipper
might or might not intend to remain in business. He
might or he might not be interested in future rates. He
might have been able to prove unreasonableness as to the
past without being able to furnish evidence as to what

BAER BROS. t,. DENVER & R. G. R. R.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

would be reasonable for the future. Or, the Commission
might be in position to say with certainty that the rates
had been unreasonable and award reparation accordingly,
but it might require a protracted and lengthy hearing to
establish what would be just for the future. To make
the shipper wait on such a finding and deprive him of
his present right to reparation, until the determination of
an independent question, would work a hardship not contemplated by the act and not required by any of its provisions.
The present case illustrates some of these features. The
plaintiff's petition asked for reparation and that the
Commission would establish just rates. On the hearing
it appeared that there was no through route or joint rate
and that the established local charge of one of the carriers
was just while that of the other had not been established
or included in a filed tariff and was also unjust. The
evidence was sufficient to sustain a finding of damages
against such carrier, but it did not show how the through
rate should be divided between the two companies, one
of which hauled 923 miles and the other 160 miles. The
carriers did not ask for an extension of the time within
which the reparation should be paid. The fact that they
were given an opportunity to agree on a through rate and
how it should be divided, ought not to deprive plaintiff
of its rights to damages for the past, under a reparation
order which could not, by any possibility, be changed by
any subsequent finding as to rates for the future.
The Report and Order gave the plaintiff no preference
over other shippers, since they showed that 15 cents of the
rate charged by the Denver & Rio Grande was unreasonable. If such a finding of unreasonableness was not sufficiently general to inure to the benefit of all other shippers,
they could, on application, have secured such a modification as to enable them to maintain a suit for the recovery
of damages for unjust charges and collections in the past.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

So far as the future operation of the order was concerned,
all shippers were left in the same position, where, from the
necessity of the case, the old rate had to be paid until the
time had elapsed within which a new and just through
rate could be put into effect. But however desirable it
may have been to deal with the entire matter at one time,
the joinder of the two subjects was not jurisdictional.
There was no such necessary connection between the two
as to make the order of reparation void because of the
absence of a concurrent provision establishing a rate for
the future.
This conclusion makes it necessary to consider what
judgment should have been entered by the Circuit Court
of Appeals (Baker v. Warner, 231 U. S. 588). That necessitates an examination of the other assignments of error
relied on by the Railroad Company.
4. The Denver & Rio Grande claimed in the record in
the Court of Appeals that the order was void on its face
for the reason that the Commission was without jurisdiction to pass upon the reasonableness of the rate from
Pueblo, Colorado, to Leadville, Colorado. But while there
was no through-rate and no through-route there was in
fact, a through shipment from St. Louis, Missouri, to
Leadville, Colorado. Its interstate character could not be
destroyed by ignoring the points of origin and destination,
separating the rate into its component parts and by charging local rates and issuing local waybills, attempting to
convert an interstate shipment into intrastate transportation.
For "when goods shipped

.

.

. from a point in one

State to a point in another, are received in transit by a
state common carrier, under a conventional division of
the charges, such carrier must be deemed to have subjected
its road to an arrangement for a continuous carriage or
shipment within the meaning of the Act to Regulate
Commerce." Cincinnati, N. 0. & Tex. Pac. Ry. v. Int.

BAER BROS. v. DENVER & R. 0. R. R.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 181, 193. This common arrangement does not depend upon the establishment of a throughroute or the issue and recognition of a through bill of lading, but may be otherwise manifested. Ibid.
That there was a common arrangement between the
two carriers here was shown by the long-continued course
in dealing, and the division of the freight, with the knowledge that it had been paid as compensation for the single
haul. If there had been a failure on the part of one of the
carriers to filethe tariffs, that did not defeat the jurisdiction of the*Commission to award reparation against that
same carrier, when it wa,; shown that its unreasonable
charge of 45 cents per cwt. formed a part of the total rate
of 90 cents per cwt. actually paid by the Baer Company.
5. The dismissal of the suit brought in 1906, for the
recovery of damages for collecting unreasonable freightrates, was not a bar to this proceeding for the reason that
a voluntary dismissal of an action at law is in the nature
of a non-suit and does not operate as a judgment on the
merits. Haldeman v. United States, 91 U. S. 584; Jacobs
v. Marks, 182 U. S. 583, 591.
There were other assignments of error in the Circuit
Court of Appeals, but as they are not discussed in the
brief for the Railroad Company, they may be treated as
abandoned here.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and that of the Circuit Court affirmed.

