OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

in that sense. On the contrary, it prqceeded to a hearing
and decided that the plaintiff could not recover under the
Federal act, because one element of his asserted cause of
action was without any evidence to sustain it. Had the
action been brought in a state court, as it could have been,
the same question would have arisen, and had the evidence been similarly insufficient a like decision must have
ensued. We say the action could have been brought in a
state court, because § 6 of the Federal act declares: "The
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States under this
act shall be concurrent with that of the courts of the several
States, and no case arising under this act and brought in
any state court of competent jurisdiction shall be. removed
to any court of the United States." And we say the result
must have been the same in a state court upon similar
evidence, because the right of recovery given by the act
(§ 1) is restricted to injuries suffered while the employ6
is employed in interstate commerce.
It follows that there was no basis for the direct writ of
error. If a review of the decision was desired it should have
been sought in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Writ of error dismissed.

TENNESSEE COAL, IRON & RAILROAD COMPANY v. GEORGE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE STATE

OF

GEORGIA.
No. 299.

Argued March 17, 1914.-Decided April 13, 1914.

While the courts of a State are bound to give full faith and credit to all
substantial provisions of a statute of another State creating a
transitory cause of action which inhere in the cause of action or
which name conditions on which the right to sue depends, venue is no
part of a right, and whether jurisdiction exists is to be determined by

TENN. COAL CO. v. GEORGE.
233'U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the law of the State creating the court in which the case is tried.
A State cannot create a transitory cause of action and at the samb time
destroy the right to sue thereon in any court having jurisdiction
although in another State.
The jurisdiction of a court over a -transitory cause of action cannot be
defeated by the extraterritorial. operation of a statute of another
State even though the latter created the cause of action.
The statute of Alabama making the master liable to the employ6 for
defective machinery created a transitory cause of action which can
be sued on in another State having jurisdiction of the parties, notwithstanding the statute provides that all actions must be brought
thereunder in the courts of Alabama and not elsewhere.
A state court does not deny full faith and credit to a statute of another
State by taking jurisdiction of -a transitory cause of action created
thereby, although such statute provides that the action can only be
brought in the courts of the enacting State. Atchison &c. Ry. v.
Sowers, 213 U. S. 55.
11 Ga. App. 221, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment of
the courts of the State of Georgia and the determination of
whether those courts gave full faith and credit to a statute
of the State of Alabama affecting the cause of action, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alexander W. Smitlh for plaintiff in error:
The mandate of the full faith and credit clause of the
Constitution of the United States is not obeyed in the
courts of a State when it recognizes the public acts of a
sister State, creating a right of action nonexistent at th
common law, and refuses compliance with the provision
of the same statutes restricting the enforcement of that
right to the courts of competent jurisdiction in the State
creating it. A., T. & S. F. Ry. v. Sowers, 213 U. S. 55;
El Paso &c. Ry. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 87.
The condition, or limitation, put upon a right of action
created by statute, and not existing at common law,
inheres in the right itself and follows it into other jurisdictions. Galveston &c. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 223 U. S. 481, 490;

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

233 U. S.

The Harrisburg, 119 U. S. 199; Davis v. Mills, 194 U. S.
451, 454; Munos v. So. Pac. Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 188; Stern
v. LaCompagnie &c., 110 Fed. Rep. 996 (2); The Edna
(Ala. statute), 185 Fed. Rep. 206; United States v. Boomer,
183 Fed. Rep. 726; Coyne v. So. Pac.Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 683.
Where the statute creating the right provides an exclusive remedy, to be enforced in a particular way, or before a special tribunal, the aggrieved party will be left to
the remedy given by the statute which created the right.
Such a condition, or limitation, need not be contained
in the same statute. It operates the same way if it be
specially attached to such a statutory right of action subsequently and in a different statute. Davis v. Mills, 194
U. S. 451, 454.
The courts of the United States take judicial notice of
the public laws of each State of the Union. Mills v.
Green, 159 U. S. 651, 657.
Where a limitation to local courts is affixed to a cause of
action existing at the common law, and independently of
the statute affixing it, the limitation may be disregarded as
in the Sowers Case, s'upra. A well defined distinction exists
between cases based on common law liability and those
depending on statutory rules of liability. Charleston &c.
Ry. Co. v. Miller, 113 Georgia, 15; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v.
Ross, 112 U. S. 377, 382; Missouri &c. Ry, Co. v. Mackey,
127 U. S. 205; B. &O. R. R. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368, 378,
379; Missouri Pac.Ry. v. Castle, 224 U. S. 541; Employers'
Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 537; Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 49; Mobile Ry. Co. v. Holburn,
84 Alabama, 133; S. C., 4 So. Rep. 146.
"Interstate venue," or venue as between different
countries, is jurisdictional. "Municipal venue," or venue
as between different places in the same jurisdiction, as a
rule has to do with procedure' merely. Ellenwood v.
Marietta Chair Co., 158 U. S. 105, 108; British So. Africa
Co. v. Companhia &c., 2 Q. B. 358.

TENN. COAL CO. v. GEORGE.
233 U. S.

Counsel for Dcfendant in Error.

There is a distinction between the existence of jurisdiction in a given court and its proper exercise in a given case
therein. Smith v. McKay, 161 U. S. 355, 358; Louisville
Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U. S. 225, 233; United States v.
Larkin, 208 U. S. 333, 338; Fore River &c. v. Hagg, 219
U. S. 175; Van Fleet's Collateral Attack, Chap. IV.
Dennick v. R. R. Co., 103 U. S. 11, 18; Texas &c. Ry.
Co. v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593; Stewart v. B. & 0. R. R., 168
U. S. 445; Whitman v. Oxford National Bank, 176 U. S.
559, can be distinguished, as in not one of these cases was
the right of action restricted or limited by the law which
created it, and that restriction disregarded.
The principle involved is closely analogous to that
found in the decisions relative to the enforcement of
"death statutes" enacted in one State and invoked in
another. All restrictions and limitations therein found
are enforced everywhere. Slater v. Mex. Nat. R. R., 194
U. S. 120, 126; Chambers v. B. & 0. R. R., 207 U. S.
142.
So, also, it is analogous to the application of statutes of
limitations of the lex loci in the forum. Davis v. Mills,
194 U. S. 451, 457; Selma &c. v. Lacey, 49 Georgia, 106.
So, also, it is analogous to the question of statutory venue
of suits under the act of Congress authorizing actions on
contractors' bonds in Government work. Davidson &c.
Co. v. Gibson, 213 U. S. 10, 16; United States v. Boomer
(8 C. C. A.), 183 Fed. Rep. 726; United States v. Congress
Construction Co., 222 U. S. 199; Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe'Ry. Co. v. Sowers, 213 U. S. 55.
Inasmuch as the statutes of Alabama, here under consideration, confessedly create a new and statutory cause
of action, expressly abrogating common law principles
otherwise applicable, the Sowers Case, supra, does not
support the judgment.
Mr. Reuben R. Arnold for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE LAmAR delivered the opinion of the court.
Wiley George, the defendant in error, was an engineer
emplqyed by the Tennessee Coal, Ir6n and Railroad
Company at its steel plant in Jefferson County, Alabama.
While he was under a locomotive repairing the brakes, a
defective throttle allowed steam to leak into the cylinder
causing the engine to move forward automatically in
consequence of which he was seriously injured.
He
of
Atlanta,
Court
City
brought suit by attachment, in the
Georgia, founding his action on § 3910 of the Alabama
Code of 1907, which makes the master liable to the
employ6 when the injury is "caused by reason of any
defect in the condition of the ways, works, machinery or
plant-connected with or used in the business of the master
or employer."
.The defendant filed a plea in abatement in which it was
set out that § 6115 of that Code also provided that "all
actions under said section 3910 must be brought in a court
of competent jurisdiction within the State of Alabama
and not elsewhere." The defendant thereupon prayed
that the action be abated because "to continue said case
on said'statutory cause of action given by the statutes of
Alabama and restricted by said statutes to the courts of
Alabama, . . . would be a denial so-far as the rights
of this defendant are concerned, of full faith and credit to
said public acts of the State of Alabama in the State of
Georgia, contrary to the provisions of Art. 4, § 1 of the
Constitution of the United States." A demurrer to the
plea in abatement was sustained and the judgment
for the plaintiff thereafter entered was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals. The case was then brought to this
court.
The record raises the single question as to whether the
full faith and credit clause,of the Constitution prohibited
the courts of Georgia from enforcing a cause of action

TENN. COAL CO. v. GEORGE.
233 U. S. ,

Opinion of the Court.

given by the Alabama Code, to the servant against the
master, for injuries occasioned by defective machinery,
when another section of the same Code provided that
suits to enforce such liability "must be brought in a court
of competent jurisdiction within the Stat6 of Alabama and
not elsewhere."
There are many cases where right and remedy are so
united that the right cannot be enforced except in the
manner and before the tribunal designated by the act.
For the rule is well settled that "where the provision for
the liability is coupled with a provision for a special
remedy, that remedy, and that alone, must be employed."
Pollard v. Bailey,. 20 Wall. 520, 527; Galveston Ry. v.
Wallace, 223 U. S. 481, 490; Stewart v. B. & 0. R. R., 168
U. S.445;.NationalBank v. Francklyn, 120 U. S. 747, 753.
But that rule has no application to a case arising under
the Alabama Code relating to suits for injuries caused by
defective machinery. For, whether the statute be treated
as prohibiting certain defenses, as removing common law
restrictions or as imposing upon the master a new and
larger liability, it is in either event evident that the place
of bringing the suit is not part of the cause of action,-the
right and the remedy are not so inseparably united as to
make the right dependent upon its being enforced in a
particular tribunal. The cause of action is transitory and
like any other transitory action can be enforced "in any
court of competent jurisdiction within the State of
But the owner of the defective
Alabama.
.
"
machinery causing the injury may have removed from the
State and it would be a deprivation of a fixed right if the
plaintiff could, not sue the defendant in Alabama because
he had left the State nor sue him where the defendant or
his property could be found because the statute did not
permit a suit elsewhere th~a in Alabama. The injured
plaintiff may likewise have. moved'from Alabama and for
that, or other, reason may have found it to bis interest to

, OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

bring suit by attachment or in personam in a State other
than where the injury was inflicted.
The courts of the sister State trying the case would be
bound to give full faith and credit to all those substantial
provisions of the statute which inhered in the cause of
action or which name conditions on which the right to sue
depend. But venue is no part of the right; and a State
cannot create a transitory cause of action and at the same
time destroy the right to sue on that transitory cause of
action in any court having jurisdiction. That jurisdiction
is to be determined by the law of the court's creation and
cannot be defeated by the extraterritorial operation of a
statute of another State, even though it created the right

of action.
The case here is controlled by the decision of this court
in Atchison &c. Ry. v. Sowers, 213 U. S.55, 59, 70, where
the New Mexico statute, giving a right of action for personal injuries and providing that suits should be brought
after certain form of notice in a particular district, was
preceded by the recital that "it has become customary for
persons claiming dimages for personal injuries received
in this Territory to institute and maintain suits for the
recovery thereof in other States and Territories to the
increased cost and annoyance and manifest injury and
oppression of the business interests of this Territory and
in derogation of the dignity of the courts thereof." Despite
this statement of the public policy of the Territory, the
judgment obtained by the plaintiff in Texas was affirmed
by this court in an opinion wherein it was said that where
an action is brought in "another jurisdiction based upon
common law principles, although having certain statutory
restrictions, such as are found in this [territorial] act as to
the making of an affidavit and limiting the time of prosecuting the suit, full faith and credit is given to the law,
when the recovery is permitted, subject to the restrictions
upon the right of action imposed in the Territory enacting

TENN. COAL CO. v. GEORGE.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the statute. . . . When it is shown that the court in
the other jurisdiction observed such conditions, and that a
recovery was permitted after such conditions had been
complied with, the jurisdiction thus invoked is not defeated because of the provision of the statute" requiring
the suit to be brought in the district where the plaintiff
resides or where the defendant, if a corporation, has its
principal place of business.
It is claimed, however, that the decision in the Sowers
Case is not in point because the plaintiff was there seeking
to enforce a common law liability, while here he is asserting
a new and statutory cause of action. But that distinction
marks no difference between the two cases because in
New Mexico, common law liability is statutory liabilitythe adopting statute (Compiled Laws, § 1823), providing
that "the common law as recognized in the United States
of America shall be the rule of practice and decision."
The decision in the Sowers Case, however, was not put
upon the fact that the suit was based on a common law
liability. The court there announced the general rule that
a transitory cause of action can be maintained in another
State even though the statute creating the cause of action
provides that the action must be brought in local domestic
courts.

In the present case the Georgia court gave full faith and
credit to the Alabama act and its judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES dissents.

