OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

233 U. S.

for doubt as to the intention of Congress. United States
v. Freeman, 3 How. 556, 564 Cope v. Cope, 137 U. S. 682,
688; Tiger v. Western Investment Company, 221 U. S. p. 309.
The conveyance by Wea's heirs came directly within
the statutory prohibition, and the later conveyances under
which the appellants claim must fall with it.
Affirmed.

HOLDEN LAND AND LIVE STOCK COMPANY v.
INTER-STATE TRADING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 354.

Argued February 26, 27, 1914.-Decided May 4, 1914.

Where the judgment of the state court rests upon an independent or
non-Federal ground which is adequate to sustain it, this court has not
jurisdiction to review it.
Where, as in this case, the decision of the state court involves simply
the exercise of the equitable jurisdiction in accordance with the jurisprudence of the State, the ruling which prescribes the conditions of
relief is not reviewable by this court.
In this case held that the decision that a party seeking to redeem
lands might do so on equitable grounds only and on the equitable
condition that he pay the debt with legal interest, rested on a
non-Federal ground sufficient to sustain it and was not reviewable

here.
Writ of error to review 87 Kansas: 221, dismissed.

THE

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court

to review the judgment of a state court under § 237,
Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward P. Garnett, with whom Mr. Oliver H. Dean
and Mr. Charles Blood Smith were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:

HOLDEN LAND CO. v. INTER-STATE TRAD'G CO. 537
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This court has jurisdiction, as the construction of the
National Banking Act is involved.
No case can be found where this court has refused to
entertain jurisdiction, when the state court undertook to
interpret the provisions of the National Banking Act.
This court has uniformly taken jurisdiction in those cases.
Haseltine v. CentralBank, 183 U. S. 134; Schuyler National
Bank v. Gadsden, 191 U. S. 451; Brown v. Marion National
Bank, 169 U. S. 416; National Bank v. Ragland, 181 U. S.
45; Barnett v. Nationai Bank, 98 U. S. 555; National
Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. IS.29; Lake Benton Bank v. Watt,
184 U. S. 151, 155; CitizensBank v. Donnell, 195 U. S. 369.
Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, distinguished, and see
Kansas Railway Co. v. Albers Comm. Co., 223 U. S. 594.
The decision is not only contrary to the plain provisions
of the National Banking Act, but to every decision of this
court construing it. Brown v. Marion National Bank, 169
U. S. 416; Lake Benton Bank v. Watt, 184 U. S. 155.
The forfeiture provided in § 5198 is entirely a creature
of the Federal statute. It is not dependent upon any
principles of general law, nor upon any state statute. It is
above and beyond them all.
A state court cannot ignore the plain provisions of a
Federal statute and proceed to decide a case upon what it
might consider general principles of law repugnant to such
provisions. Railroad Co. v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 506; Gaar,
Scott & Co. v. Shannon, '223 U. S. 468, 471; Railway Co. v.
McWhirter, 229 U. S. 265.
Mr. Leonard S. Ferry, with whom Mr. Thomas F.
Doran, Mr. John S. Dean and Mr. Elijah Robinson were on
the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the Holden Land and Live
Stock Company and Howard M. Holden in the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Court of Shawnee'County, Kansas, to have certain con-,
veyances which were absolute on their face, and the
accompanying contracts, decreed to be mortgages, and
for an accounting in order to ascertain the amount of the
indebtedness thereby secured. It was also alleged that
usury had been exaoted by the creditor (the National
Bank of Commerce of Kansas City, Missouri), and upon
this ground it was prayed that in taking the account the
debtor should be charged only with the principal and that
the entire interest should be adjudged to be forfeited
under §§ 5197 and 5198 of the Revised Statutes.
The principal facts and the nature of. the litigation are
succinctly stated by the Supreme Court of Kansas, as
follows (87 Kansas, 221, 222, 223):
"On June 6, 1901, the Holden Land and Live Stock
Company executed to the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance
Company a mortgage for $90,000, due in five years, upon
a tract of land in Shawnee county, containing about
5,603 acres, of which it was the record owner. On July 1,
1901, the Holden company executed a note to Howard M.
Holden for $82,000, secured by a second mortgage on the
same tract. This note and second mortgage, with other
security, Holden at once transferred to the National
Bank of Commerce of Kansas City, Missouri, to secure
his note to that bank for $80,000 bearing the same date,
due in one year and drawing eight per cent. interest,
which was subsequently renewed. Holden had personally
purchased a tract of land in Missouri, borrowing a part
of the amount necessary for the purpose from the bank.
To secure the bank the deed was made to one W. H. Winants. Afterwards it was agreed that he should hold the
title as further security for Holden's note to the bank.
In May, 1904, Holden caused to be executed to the InterState Trading Company, deeds covering the tracts in
Kansas and Missouri, less parts of the former that had
been sold, most Qf the proceeds baving been appied to

HOLDEN LAND CO. v. INTER-STATE TRAD'G CO. 539
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cutting down the incumbrances. On February 13, 1908,
Holden and the Holden company brought an action
against the bank and the Inter-State Trading Company,
alleging in substance that the deeds had been given by
way of security for the indebtedness owing to the bank,
and asking, if this should be found to have been paid in
full, a decree quieting title; otherwise, a decree declaring
title to be held under the deeds as security for whatever
balance should be found due. The defendants maintained that the deeds were intended as absolute conveyances, and operated as such. The court found, in accordance with the report of the :referee before whom the case
was tried, that the defendants were precluded, by their
course of dealing with the plaintiffs, from claiming the
absolute title to the land; that the plaintiffs should be
allowed to redeem it by paying the defendants what they
had in it, amounting at the time the action was begun to
$81,091.93, this including the first mortgage, which the
bank had purchased; judgment was rendered that if the
plaintiffs should pay this amount (which had been reduced
to $65,233.67 by sales of land made during the litigation)
within six months, their title should be quieted; that
if they failed to make the payment within that time they
should -be barred of all interest in the land; The defendants appeal on the ground that the court should have denied the plaintiffs any relief whatever. The plaintiffs
appeal upon two principal, grounds: (1) that in the accounting they should not have been charged with interest
on the 'note given to the bank, because by the exaction
of usury all interest thereon had been forfeited; and (2)
that the first mortgage should not have been enforced
against them otherwise than by a foreclosure and sheriff's
sale."
The Supreme Court of the State decided in favor of the
plaintiffs in error upon the second question. Approving
the findings made in the trial court, it was concluded that

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

the relations between the parties were in effect those of
mortgagor and mortgagee and that the appropriate remedy
was a foreclosure and sale. Accordingly, the judgment
was modified so as to provide that the lien upon the Kansas
land should be enforced in this manner.
The court affirmed the judgment in other respects;
and because, in fixing the amount to be paid in order to
redeem the lands in question, the court did not require
the forfeiture of all interest, this writ of error is prosecuted.
The question at once arises whether, in view of the
character of the suit and the basis of the ruling, the judgment is subject to review in this court. The action, it
will be observed, was not one brought by the bank to
enforce the payment of the indebtedness, thus involving
the application of the statutory measure of the bank's
legal right. Nor was the debtor availing himself of the
exclusive remedy afforded by the statute in cases where
usurious interest has actually been paid to a national
bank (Barnet v. National Bank, 98 U. S. 555; Stephens v.
Monongahela Bank, 111 U. S. 197). While the plaintiffs
insisted that interest should be forfeited, still they were
suitors in equity seeking to be permitted to redeem the
lands which had been conveyed; and the decision was
placed distinctly upon the ground that the relief sought
should be granted only upon the equitable condition that
the plaintiff should be charged with the principal of the
debt and legal interest. Upon this point the Supreme
Court of Kansas said (87 Kansas, 221, 233, 234):
"Usury was charged and collected upon the Holden
note. By the national banking act the exaction of usury
destroys the interest bearing quality of a debt. The
referee decided that the plaintiffs were estopped from
claiming the benefit of that provision. Nothing was said
about usury until the present action was begun. Whether
or not an actual estoppel has arisen, it was proper under
the circumstances, in view of the equitable relief sought,

HOLDEN LAND CO. v. INTER-STATE TRAD'G CO.
233 U. S.

541

Opinion of the Court.

that the plaintiffs should be charged with the principal
and legal interest.
"'When the borrower appears in any capacity in a
court of equity asking affirmative relief against a usurious
contract to pay money such relief will, in the absence of
statute providing otherwise, be granted him only upon
condition of his doing equity, that is, tendering the money
actually due. . . . The rule . . . applies when the
relief sought is the reformation or cancellation of a deed,
or mortgage, or other instrument, evidencing or securing
a. usurious debt, or an injunction against threatened
damaging action by the creditor, or in fact, whatever be
the character of the relief sought. . . . In case the
usurious interest has been reserved, or paid in advance,
the amount equitably due is the principal debt less the
usurious excess of interest paid. In the absence of statute
providing otherwise if the contract for the usurious interest is still executory the sum equitably due is the principal
debt with legal interest thereon.' (39 Cyc. 1010-1012.)"
The judgment thus re-sts upon an independent or nonFederal ground which was adequate to sustain it, The
court applied a familiar equitable principle in defining the
basis upon which extraordinary aid would be given. "A
court of equity is not positively bound to interfere in such
cases by an active exertion of its powers; but it has a discretion on the subject, and may prescribe the terms of its
interference." Story, Eq. Jur., § 301;.Fanning v. Dunham, 5 Johns. Ch. 122, 142, 143; Tiffany v. Boatman's Institution, 18 Wall. 375, 385. It is manifest that the plaintiffs were not proceeding: by virtue of any Federal right
in seeking to have the conveyances which had been executed in the form of absolute transfers of title declared
to be mortgages; and it was competent for the court, whose
intervention was desired for this purpose, to demand that
its conscience be satisfied by the doing of equity on the
part of those who asked it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
DAY, J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

The decision involves simply the exercise of the equitable jurisdiction in accordance with the jurisprudence of
the State, and the ruling which prescribed the conditions
of relief is 'not reviewable here.
The writ of error must be dismissed.
.Dinlssed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY,

dissenting.

1 am unable to agree that this court does not have jurisdiction of this writ of error. In my judgment, if the
principle here invoked is applied to a case like the one
under consideration, it will result that the state court
may determine, without power of review in this court, the
ultimate effect and scope of rights secured by a Federal
statute.
It appears from the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Kansas, quoted in the opinion in this case, that a national
bank, organized under and subject to the limitations of
the Federal statutes in that respect, received usury upon
a debt which was secured by a conveyance of title which
was upon its face a deed. The plaintiff in error stated in
its petition the facts which showed the usurious arrangement with the bank and the charging upon the debt of
interest in violation of the statute and thus distinctly relied upon a Federal statute controlling the right of national
banks to take usurious interest. It asked to have the
conveyance decreed a mortgage in fact and security for the
debt, and that only, the amount legally collectible thereon
should be held to be due. These allegations brought the
case within the provisions of §§ 5197 and 5198 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, fixing certain consequences for taking usurious interest by national banks.
The state court found that the deed had at all times been
intended by the parties to be and was security for the
debt, but decreed that it should extend to the balance of
the debt, with legal interest.

HOLDEN LAND CO. v. INTER-STATE TRAD'G CO.
233 U. S.

DAY,

543

J., dissenting.

By means of this petition a right of Federal origin was
specially set up, which, if denied, gave the right to come
to this court under a Federal statute which has been in
substantially the same form., so far as this writ of error is
concerned, since the passage of the Judiciary Act in 1789.
This is not controverted in the opinion in this case, but
the position is taken that the decision rests upon an independent ground not involving a denial of Federal right,
and therefore is not reviewable here.
I am not unmindful of the rule frequently recognized in
the decisions of this court that if the judgment of the state
court rests upon an independent, separate ground of local
or general law broad enough or sufficient in itself to base
the decision upon and to control the rights of the parties,
this court has no jurisdiction to review the action of the
state court. So far as I understand the decisions where
such independent ground has been sustained, resulting
in a lack of jurisdiction in. this court to review a decision
of a state dourt, the judgment has proceeded upon the
principle that, irrespective of the Federal right asserted,
an independent ground of judgment, not involving the
Federal question, has controlled the decision. For example, in a number of cases in this court it has been held
that, conceding the Federal right asserted to have been
one which might have been maintained, nevertheless, if
upon the general doctrine of laches that right no longer
exists; the refusal to enforce it because of laches, rests the
decision upon a principle of general law, applicable to all
rights, Federal or otherwise, and is not of itself a denial
of a Federal right. So this court has more than once held
that a decision placing the rights of the parties upon the
doctrine of res judicata, where the" decision did, not. necessarily involve the denial of a right of a Federal character,
places the decision upon a non-Federal ground and is not
reviewable here. These are examples of independeht
grounds of general law. which the state court has the right

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
DAY,

J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

to apply to all asserted rights, and their maintenance
does not amount to a denial of SPecial claims of Federal
right.
"But," said this court in C.,,B. & Q. Railway v. Drainage Comm'rs, 200 U. S.561, 580: "it is equally well settled
that the failure of the state court to pass on the Federal
right or immunity specially set up, of record, is not conclusive, but this court will decide the Federal question if
the necessary effect of the judgment is to deny a Federal
right or immunity specially set up or claimed, and which,
if recognized and enforced, would require a judgment
different from one resting upon some ground of local or
general law."
Without citing all the cases, the rule
substantially as just stated has been frequently recognized. Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 636; Anderson
v. Carkins, 135 U. S. 483; Wabash R. R. Co. v. Pearce,
192 U. S. 179; Terre Haute &c. Railroad Co. v. Indiana,
194 U. S. 579; Schlemmer v. Buffalo, R. & P. R. Co., 205
U. S. 1.
Applying these principles here, it seems to me that
where a party specially asserts, as it did in this case, the
application of the Federal statute, which in unequivocal
terms provides (Rev. Stat., § 5198) that the "taking, receiving, reserving, or charging a rate of interest greater
than is allowed by the preceding section, when knowingly
doie [which the record discloses was so taken in this case],
shall be deemed a forfeiture of the entire interest which the
note, bill, or other evidence of debt carries with. it, or
which has been agreed to be paid thereon," and the
Supreme Court of the State, holding that notwithstanding
the Federal statute it has the discretion to condition its
relief, allowing\redemption only upon the payment of
principal and legal interest, it has in effect denied the
right asserted under the Federal statute and the correctness of the decision is reviewable here. This statute has
no conditions attached to it and is upon its face applicable

HOLDEN LAND CO. v. INTER-STATE TRAD'G CO. 545
DAY, J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

wherever a situation arises which comes within its terms.
In effect the state court said this is true, usury has been
charged upon this contract, and, because of the statute,
the security is not enforceable beyond the face of the debt,
but as the giver of the security has been obliged to apply
to the equity powers of a state court for the carrying out
of the contract, a condition may be attached to the relief
to which the party is otherwise entitled, and the state
court charged the plaintiff in error with the debt, with legal
interest, notwithstanding the Federal statute which declares the interest forfeited upon such facts as are here
presented. When the court so decided, in my judgment,
it necessarily denied a Federal right, and, whether right or
wrong, the denial of that right laid the basis for ultimate
decision by this court as to the nature and extent of the
rights secured by the Federal statute.
In my opinion this court should review the judgment
and determine for itself 'whether the rule invoked in
the state court has this effect upon a Federal statute, which unconditionally forfeits the entire interest
where usurious interest has been knowingly reserved or
taken.
I therefore dissent from the opinion of the court holding
that there is no jurisdiction of the case.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA
VANTER

and MR. JUSTICE VAN DE-

concur in this dissent.

VOL. ccxxxiii-35

