OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

'233 U. S.

CARONDELET CANAL AND NAVIGATION COMPANY v. STATE OF LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 78. Argued March 16, 17, 1914.-Decided April 20, 1914.
As the judgment of the state court disposed of, and ordered the delivery of the property sued for, and in so doing disposed of the Federal defense interposed, it has substantial finality on which to base
the writ of error, notwithstanding a reservation as to some property
not appurtenant and provision for an accounting as to certain disbursements.
If the further proceedings in the court below apply only to questions
reserved, so that the decree can be immediately executed as to the
property involved, and as to that it is final, the judgnient is final in
form as well as in substance, and a writ of error properly lies from
this court.
The fact that the Supreme Court of the State did not refer to a statute
claimed to have impaired the rights of plaintiff in error, does not prexent this court from considering that statute, and if it was an essential, although an unmentioned, element of the decision, it is a
basis for the Federal question set up.
Bad motives need not be imputed to a legislature in order to render a
statute unconstitutional under the contract clause; it is not the
motive causing the enactment, but the effect thereof on contract
rights, which determines the question of constitutionality.
The repeal of a law which constitutes a legislative contract is an impairment of its obligation.
The acts of 1857 and 1858 of the legislature of Louisiana did grant
certain contract rights to the Carondelet Canal and Navigation
Company which are within the protection of the contract clause of
the Federal Constitution, and the act of 1906 repealing the act of
1858 impaired the contract obligation of the latter.
The natural and grammatical use of a relative pronoun is to put it, in
close relation with its antecedent, and in this case so held as to the
pronoun "it," notwithstanding its use rendered the sentence somewhat ambiguous.
The provision in the act of 1858 of Louisiana, granting rights to a
corporation on certain conditions, that after fifty years "it may

CARONDELET CANAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.
233,U. S.

363

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

revert to the State," held to relate to the company and not to one of
the properties specified.
In construing a statute which at the time of its enactment was published in more than one language, the version in the other language
is significant.
In this case, held, that as reversion of property to the State was contingent on compensation, the statute should be construed as making
payment a condition precedent of the reversion, as it could not be
intended to remit the owner to a mere claim against the State which
-could not be enforced as the sovereignty of the State would give
immunity from suit.
129 Louisiana, 279, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the state courts and also the constitutionality under the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution of a statute of Louisiana relating to the
property of Carondelet Canal and Navigation Company
and the right of the State to acquire its property, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edgar H. Farrar,with whom Mr. Benjamin T.
Waldo and Mr. W. C. Dufour were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The judgment of the Supreme Court is final in form and
in substance, as it decides the right to the property in
contest, and directs it to be delivered up by the defendant
to the State, the plaintiff in the action, and the plaintiff
is entitled to have such decree carried immediately into
effect. Forgay v. Conrad:,6 How. 201; Thompson v. Dean,
7 Wall. 342, 346; French v. Shoemaker, 12 Wall. 86, 98;
Bostwick v. Brinkerhoff, 1106 U. S. 3; Grant v. Phcenix Co.,
106 U. S. 429; Winthrop Iron Co. v. Meeker, 109 U. S. 180;
St. Louis Ry. v. Southern Ex. Co., 108 U. S. 24, 28; M., K.
& T. R. R. v. Dinsmore, 108 U. S. 30; Keystone Iron Co. v.
Martin, 132 U. S. 91; Lewisburg Bank v. Scheffey, 140
U. S. 452.
The Federal questions involved were set up in oral argu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
ArgUment for Plaintiff in Error.

233 U. S.

ment and in the briefs on the merits. They were set up
again in the application for a rehearing. C., B. & Q. R. R.
v. Drainage Commission, 200 U.. S. 561.
The judgment of a state court, even if it be authorized
by a statute, whereby private property is taken for the
State, or under its direction, for public use, without compensation, is upon principle and authority wanting in the
due process of law required by the Fourteenth Amendment. The same principle applies to a statute of a State.
Chi., B. &c. R. R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Fayerweather
v. Rich, 195 U. S. 276, and Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky,
199 U. S.202.
This court will determine for itself what the contract
claimed to be violated was. Douglas v. Kentucky, 168
U. S. 502; McGahey v. Virginia, 135 U. S. 662; McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 110; Vicksburg v. Waterworks
Co., 202 U. S. 467.
This court will review the findings of fact by a state
court where a conclusion of law as to a Federal right and
the finding of fact are so intermingled as to make it necessary to analyze and dissect the facts for the purpose of
passing on the Federal question. Creswill v. Knights of
Pythias, 225 U. S. 261; Wood v. Chesborough, 228 U. S.
.678.
The necessary corollary of these propositions is that
when the claim is that claimant has been deprived of property without due process of law, this court will find for itself what the claimant's property rights were, and how he
has been deprived of them.
The plaintiff in error had legislatively recognized rights
upon the property adjudged to the State by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana.
The State never had any proprietary interest in and to
the improvements on the Canal, Basin and Bayou, and
never claimed any. She could have no claim to anything
but to the Canal, Bayou and Basin as they stood in 1805;

CARONDELET CANAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.
233 U. S.

365

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and the act of 1896, which the court has enforced, takes
plaintiff in error's property in violation of the charter
rights of plaintiff under the acts of 1857 and i898. La.
Civil Code, Art. 23; Henrietta Mining Co. v. Gardiner, 173
U. S. 123; United States v. Tyner, 11 Wall. 92.
The reversion provided for in § 4 of the act of 1858 was
the same thing as was originally provided for in the repealed section of the act of 1857.
If what was to revert under the act of 1858 on due compensation was the same thing as what was to revert under
the repealed section of the act of 1857, then the act of
1906, sued on by the State and enforced substantially by
the Supreme Court of Louisiana, impaired the obligation
of the contract between the State and the plaintiff in
error, because that act made no provision for compensation to the plaintiff in error.
If what was to revert, on due compensation made, expressed by the word "it" in the act of 1858 meant only
the railroad, which was never built, and § 4 of the act of
1858 repealed § 20 of the act of 1857, then the State had
no right of reversion to, or any other right to, any of the
property and improvements connected with the Basin,
Canal and Bayou St. John and the roadways on the sides
thereof, and the adjudging of all of this property to the
State by the state court without compensation to the
company, and executing the act of 1906, was a taking of
the company's property without due process of law in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Even if the tenure by which the company held the
waterway sued for was a lease, the State, as lessor, Could
not take the property at the end of the lease and keep
the improvements Ulade by the lessee, without making
compensation therefor. La. Civ. Code, Art. 2726; Ross v.
Zuntz, 36 La. Ann. 888.
The State had no title to the Canal and Basin; they
were the property of the United States, on which the de-

OCTOBER. TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

fendant's antecessor in title had been granted perpetual
rights by the legislative council of the Territory of Orleans,
with thWe implied consent of Congress, to which rights the
compaily had succeeded by the legislative direction of the
State of Louisiana, and the State had no right to take this
property and its improvements and appurtenances from
the company except under its contractual right of reversion under the act of 1858.
The grant of the territorial council to the Orleans

Navigation Company was valid, and it would have been
valid even if made by the State. Monongahela Nay. Co. v.
United
148 U. S. 61.
. EvenStates,
the United States could not have taken the improvements made on the Basin, Canal and Bayou St.
John by the grantee of a valid grant without compensation.
See Carondelet Canal &c. v. Tedesco, 37 La. Ann. 100;
Carondelet Canal &c. v. Parker, 29 La. Ann. 434; City v.
Carondelet Canal &c., 36 La. Ann. 396; Orleans Nay. Co.
v. City, 1 Martin, (0. S.) 23; Same v. Same, 2 Id. 214;
State v. Orleans Nay. Co., 11 Martin (0. S.), 309; S. C.,
7 La. Ann. 679; United States v. Tyner, 11 Wall. 92.
Mr. Ruffin G. Pleasant, Attorney General of the State
of Louisiana, with whom Mr. Daniel Wendling was on
the brief, for defendant in error:
The judgment is not final. The case should also be dismissed because no Federal question is involved. Haseltine
v. Central Bank, 183 U. S. 131; Navigation Co. v. Oyster
Com'n, 226 U. S. 99; Missouri &c. Ry. v. Olathe, 222 U. S.
185; Norfolk Turnpike Co. v. Virginia, 225 U. S. 264;
Schlosser v. Hemphill, 198 U. S. 175.
Plaintiff in error's sole contention is that the lower
court did not give to the act of 1858 the interpretation
placed thereon by it. This does not present a Federal
question.
Act 161 of 1906, providing for the appointment of a

CARONDELET CANAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.
233 U. S.

367

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Board of Control to take over the canal, did not impair
the contract in the act of 11858.
No specific claim is made in the answer that said act
impairs contract obligation, and that act does not impair
contract rights.
The State did not rely upon the act, of 1906 in support
of its demand, but upon the charter and amended charter
of the Canal Company.
Section 9 of the act of 1906, creating a Board of Control,
provides that the act shall take effect October 1, 1907,
and this date was fixed on as the time when said Board
should organize as such, amd not when it should take over
the canal property and improvements.
The Supreme Court held that the State should take over
the canal, etc., from the date mentioned in the amended
charter of 1858, March :10, 1908, and not the date mentioned in the act of 19063. Beaupre v. Noyes, 138 U. S.
397; Bacon v. Texas, 163 U. S. 207; Cross Lake Club v.
Louisiana, 224 U. S. 622; Central Land Co. v. Laidley,
159 U. S. 110; Chappell v. Bradshaw, 128 U. S. 132; Clark
v. Pennsylvania, 128 U. 3. 397; Commercial Bank v. Buckingham, 5 How. 317; DeS: Moines v. Railway Co., 214 U. S.
179; Cons. Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk Ry., 228 U. S. 599; De
Saussere v. Gaillard, 127 U. S. 222; Deming v. Packing
Co., 226 U. S. 102; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cr. 87; Hamblin v.'
Land Co., 147 U. S. 531; Kennebec &c. R. R. v. Portland
&c. R. R., 14 Wall. 23; Knox v. Exchange Bank, 12 Wall.
379; Lehigh Water Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S. 388; N. 0. Water
Works v. Am. Sugar Co., 125 U. S. 30; Preston v. Chicago,
226 U. S. 447; Ross v. Oregon, 227 U. S. 150; Spies v.
Illinois, 123 U. S. 131; St. Paul Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S.
149; Turner v. Wilkes Co., 173 U. S. 461; Wood v. Chesborough, 228 U. S. 672; Wilson v. North Carolina, 169
U. S. 586; Y. & M. V. R. R. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 41.
The judgment does not give effect to the act of 1906,
but rests on entirely independent grounds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

The judgment is broad enough to sustain it without reference to alleged Federal question or giving effect to subsequent act. Cases supra and Arkansas So.
Ry. v. German Nat. Bank, 207 U. S. 270; Capital City
Dairy v. Ohio, 183 U. S. 238; Chappell Chemical Co. v.
Sulphur Mines, 172 U. S. 471; Chesapeake &c. Ry. v.
McDonald, 214 U. S. 193; Columbia Water Co. v. Ry.,
172 U. S. 475; Delaware Co. v. Reynold, 150 U. S. 361;
Fowler v. Lamson, 164 U. S. 252; Fisher v. New Orleans,
218 U. S. 439; Hammond v. Johnson, 142 U. S. 73; Iowa
Central Ry. v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389; Jenkins v. Lowenthal,
110 U. S. 222; Klinger v. Missouri, 13 Wall.. 257; Long
Island Water Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685; Miller v.
Railroad Co., 168 U. S. 131; Mo. Pac. R. R. v. Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556; Mobile &c. R. R. v. MiSsissippi, 210
U. S. 187; Murdock v. Mayor, 20 Wall. 590; Powder Co. v.
Davis, 151 U. S. 389; Rutland Railroadv. Cent. Ver. R. R.,
159 U. S. 630; Snell v. Chicago, 152 U. S. 191; Simmerman
v. Nebraska, 116 U. S. 54; Taylor v. Cass County, 142 U. S.
288; Wood Co. v. Skinner, 139 U. S. 293.
Congressional grants of land to the Orleans Navigation
Company do not involve a Federal question; there is no
dispute as to the validity or construction thereof.
The ownership of the property is not a factor in the
case, as it is agreed to surrender the same at the end of the
corporate existence. Chever v. Homer, 142 U. S. 122;
Delamar Mining Co. v. Nesbit, 177 U. S. 523; Fla. Cent.
R. R. v. Bell, 175 U. S. 328, 329; Gill v. Oliver, 11 How.
529; Gold Washing Co. v. Keyes, 96 U. S. 199; Hastings v.
Jackson, 112 U. S. 233; McStay v. Friedman,92 U. S. 723;
Murray v. Mining Co., 45 Fed. Rep. -386; Miller v. Swan,
150 U." S. 132; Mill v. Merrill,- 119 U. S. 581; Maney v.
Porter, 4 How. 55; Romie v. Cassanova, 91 U. S. 379;
Theurkauf v. Ireland, 27 Fed. Rep. 769.
'There is no foundation for the claim of want of due
process of law. Bergman v. Backer, 157 U. S. 655; Central

CARONDELET CANAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.
233 U. S.

369

Argument lor Defendant in Error.

Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. 5. 110; Head v. Amoskeag Mfg.
Co., 113 U. S. 26; Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S. 379;
Morley v. Lake Shore &c. R. R., 146 U. S. 162; Standard
Oil Co. v. Missouri, 224 U. S. 270; Twining v. New Jersey,
211 U. S. 110; Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; West v.
Louisiana, 194 U. S. 261.
The Bayou St. John has always been held to be a navigable stream.
The State could not barter and sell, and, hence, could
not give away the Bayou.
The plaintiff in error was bound to surrender the canal
and property on the conditions named in its charter, and
these conditions are what the Supreme Court held them
to be.
The state court was construing.its own statutes, which
interpretation is always followed by this court.
If the contract of plaintiff in error, as evidenced by the
acts of 1857 and 1858, is ambiguous and doubtful, plaintiff
can take nothing thereby, for ambiguous grants are strictly
construed against the grantee. Nothing can be inferred
against the State. Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S. 338; 2
Baudry-Lacantinerie, "Du Contrat de Louage," p. 1,
No. 1395; Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 471; CarondeletCanal
Co. v. Tedesco, 37 La. Ann. 102; Carondelet Canal Co. v.
New Orleans, 38 La. Ann. 309; Carondelet Canal Co. v.
New Orleans, 44 La. Ann. 396; Cleveland v. Cleveland Ry.,
204 U. S. 116; New Orleans v. Carondelet Canal Co., 36
La. Ann. 397; Dubuque &c. R. R. v. Litchfield, 23 How. 66;
Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 XWheat. 152; Enfield v. Jordan,119
U. S. 680; Ill. Cent. R. R. v. Chicago, 176 U. S. 659; Maxwell Land Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325; Missouri &c. R. R.
v. McCann, 174 U. S. 586; Canal .Co. v. New Orleans, 12
La. Ann. 365; Orleans Nay. Co. v. Mayor, 1 Martin (0. S.)
(La.) 269; Same v. Same, 2 Id. 10, 214; Rowain v. Runnels, 5 How. 139; Ridings v. Johnson, 128 U. S. 212;
Shivley v. Bowlby, 152U. S. 57; Spears v. Flack, 34 MisVOL. ccxxxiii-24

OCTOBER TERM' 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

souri, 101; State v. Orleans Nay. Co., 11 Martin (0. S.)
107; S. C., 7 La. Ann. 679; Stein v. Bienville Water Co.,
141 U. S. 80; Tallman v. Coffin, 4 N. Y. 134; Williams v.
Eggleston, 170 U. S. 311.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The State of Louisiana brought this suit in the Civil
District Court of the Parish of Orleans, State of Louisiana,
against the Carondelet Canal and Navigation Company
of New Orleans (herein called the canal company) for the
recovery from the company, through its liquidators, of the
Carondelet Canal, Bayou St. John and Old Basin, a
waterway used by vessels for the transportation of freight
and merchandise, and for its improvements and appurtenant properties.
The suit was dismissed by the Civil District Court as
premature. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State
that court reversed the judgment dismissing the suit and.
ordered that a judgment be entered against the canal
company, in liquidation, ordering the delivery to the
State of the canal and waterway in their entirety, as they
stood on March 10, 1908, together with all the property
and improvements appurtenant thereto, including the
roadway or roadways upon the side or sides of the canal.
The claims of the State to a triangular strip of ground
hereafter mentioned or to the proceeds thereof, or to any
other property, movable or immovable, not appurtenant
to the waterway and roadways, were reserved for further
adjudication in the proceedings. And an accounting was
ordered of the receipts and disbursements in the management of the property since March 10, 1908, and the case
was remanded to the District Court "for further proceedings on all questions reserved as above stated, and that
the right of the plaintiff to obtain judgment for such an-

CARONDELET CANAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.
233 U. S.

371

Opinion of the Court.

amounA as may be found due upon defendant's accounting,
and to take such further proceedings and obtain such
further orders as may be required for the execution of this
judgment, be reserved." 129) Louisiana, 279, 322.
We refer to the opinion of the Supreme Court for the
history of the canal, which, while interesting, is quite long.
There is no question of the source and origin of the rights
of the canal company; no question of the right of the
State to take possession of the canal and its appurtenant
properties upon complying with the contract alleged to
exist between the State and the company. There is a
question as to the extent of the rights of the company
under the contract and for what property the State must
make compensation, and the factors in the solution of the
question require quite an extended discussion.
We are met, however, at the outset by a motion to
dismiss on the ground that the judgment is not final.
The judgment disposes of and orders the delivery of
practically all of the property sued for: (1) the waterway
in its entirety; (2) all the property and improvements
appurtenant to it, including the roadway or roadways
upon the sides of it. It reserves property not appurtenant
and an accounting of certain disbursements. The reservation concerns only a small piece of ground upon which
there was a dispute as to whether it was appurtenant to the
canal, a question the court apparently could not determine
as it was a question Qf fact. All else will be taken from the
canal company and delivered to the State. That is, all
was decreed that it was the purpose of the suit to have
decreed and which not only constituted its success, but
which involved and disposed of the Federal right asserted
by the canal company. The judgment, therefore, has a
substantial finality. Is it not as well in form?
Cases are cited which, the State contends, require a
negative answer to the question. They are distinguishable
from that at bar.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

In Haseltine v. Bank, 183 U. S. 130, the action was
against a national bank to recover under § 5198 of the
Revised Statutes for usurious interest alleged to have
been charged. There was judgment in favor of the plaintiff in the action. It was reversed by the Supreme Court
of the State on the ground that he had neither paid por
tendered the principal sum, and the case was remanded for
further proceedings. The case, therefore, was remanded
for a new trial in its entirety. It was ruled that the face
of the judgment is the test of its finality and that this
court cannot be called on to inquire whether, when a
cause is sent back, the defeated party might or might not
make a better case.
This rule was again expressed in Schlosser v. Hemphill,
198 U. S. 173, in a case where a right to amend the pleadings existed and a new case could have been made.
In M. & K. Interurban Company v. City of Olathe,
222 U. S. 185, a demurrer was sustained to the plaintiff's
pleadings in the trial court and the Supreme Court, but
the latter court did not direct a dismissal of the suit but
left it stand in the court below. We held that the judgment sought to be reviewed was not one which finally determined the cause and that we were without jurisdiction.
In Louisiana Navigation Co. v. Oyster Commission of
Louisiana, 226 U. S. 99, we repeated the test of finality
to be the face of the judgment and expressed the reason
to be that this court cannot be called upon to review
an action of the state court piece-meal. The language
was appropriate to the condition presented by the case,
for the pleading in the case was left open for amendment.
In the case at bar there is distinct and explicit finality
and the further proceedings are directed to apply only to
the "questions reserved." And, it is to be assumed, this
was purposely done to give finality to the questions not
reserved, so that the decree could be immediately executed

CARONDELET CANAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.
233 U. S.

373

Opinion of the Court.

upon the property involved requiring it to be delivered
into the possession and administration of the State.. This
disposition we can easily conceive, the court considered
necessary to the rights which the State was adjudged to
have and the remedy commensurate with them. The
decree, therefore, had a definiteness which did not exist
in the cited cases, the Federal rights asserted by the canal
company were injuriously disposed of. The ground of
dismissal of the writ of error based on the judgment is not,
therefore, sustained.
There are other grounds urged, to-wit, that no Federal
question is shown,' and that besides the decision of the
court'below was rested on a non-Federal ground sufficient
to sustain it. A consideration of this involves the issues
in the case and their determination.
The suit involves, as we have said, the right to the
canal and its appurtenant properties, and the controversy
between the parties turns upon the construction of two
acts of the legislature of the State passed, respectively, in
1857 and 1858. Those acts will be referred to hereafter
with some particularity. By virtue of those acts the
canal company derived its rights and its c6rporate existence. The petition of the State presents the following
propositions: (1) The act of 1857 (act No. 160), gave the
canal company a corporate existence of twenty-five years
from October 17, 1857, with power in the State to take
possession of the canal and appurtenant properties. If
the State should not exercise such right at such time then
the company was to have existence for a second term of
twenty-five years, at which time the canal and its appurtenant properties were to be surrendered to the State
without compensation to be paid to the company. (2) By
the act of 1858 (Act No. 74) the charter existence of the
company was extended to fifty years and at the expiration
of such period the property was to be surrendered to 'the
State without the necessity of compensation being made

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

therefor. (3) In 1906 (Act No. 161), in order that the
State should be in a position to assume control and take
possession of the property, the legislature passed an act
creating a Board of Control of the canal, to be appointed
by the Governor. This board was appointed and the
property demanded. (4) The company refused to comply
with the demand on the ground that the State had not
complied with certain alleged contract obligations which
the canal company claimed under § 4 of the act of 1858
and which gave it greater rights to the property than did
the act of 1857, and until such obligations were performed
the company would refuse to deliver the property. (5) If
such was the effect of the act of 1858 the act was void as
being in violation of the constitution of the State, especially of articles 108 and 109, which prohibited the granting of aid by the State to companies and corporations
formed for the purpose of making works of public improvement. And further, if the company have the right to
demand compensation, it has no right to claim against
the State the property and improvements connected with
or which belong to the Carondelet Canal, the Bayou St.
John and the Old Basin on Toulouse Street, the State
being sole owner of that part of the property. (6) The
New Orleans Terminal Company, in a suit to expropriate
a triangular piece of ground upon which stood the office
building of the company, was condemned to pay $3,000,
which sum was deposited in bank by agreement to await
the determination of whether the State or the company
should be entitled thereto. (7) The company has collected
tolls through its liquidators since the expiration of its
charter.
The State prayed an accounting of the revenues of the
property after the expiration of the charter of the company, and that all the property and improvements connected with and appurtenant thereto, including the
$3,000, the proceeds of the triangular piece of ground

CARONDELET CANAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.
233 U. S.

375

Opinion of the Court.

referred to above, be delivered to the Board of Control
created by the act of 1906 to be administered through the
board.
Exceptions were filed to the petition of the State, and
having been overruled an answer was filed. We need give
only its basic allegations. They present, after denying
the allegations of the petition of the State, the following
propositions: (1) The State had no interest in the canal
except under the contract between the canal company
and the State, constituted of the acts of 1857 and 1858.
(2) In 1857 the legislature, after anticipating the inability
of a company called the New Orleans Canal and Navigation Company to carry .out the terms of the purchase of
the property under an act passed in 1852 (Act No. 309,
March 18, 1852), passed the act of 1857, and that under
those acts the canal company became possessed of the
property. By § 4 of the act of 1858 (hereafter set out) it
was provided that the company should have corporate
existence during fifty years from the date of the act,
after which time it might revert to the State upon due
compensation being made according to award by three
commissioners. (3) If the act of 1906 can be construed to
authorize the Board of Control to take possession of the
property without compensating the company therefor, it
violates the contract clause of the Constitution of the
United States. (4) The State never claimed any right or
property in or to the canal and the improvements respectively made thereon by the Orleans Navigation Company and its successors, and whatever rights the State
has are derived solely from the contracts between it and
the canal company as defined in the acts of 1857 and 1858.
The State never spent a dollar on the canal, the basin or
the bayou, but the canal company has spent thereon a
sum exceeding $750,000.
The State, as we have said, made a motion to dismiss on
two grounds, one of which we have decided; the other is

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

that no Federal question is presented by the record, the
canal company failing to distinguish, it is contended, between a subsequent act of the legislature impairing the
contract and the decision of the court construing it. The
question then is whether the act of 1906, appointing the
Board of Control and investing it with powers, was an act
which impaired the obligation of the contract, and in
the solution of the question we must assume that the act,
of 1858 constituted a contract between the State and the
canal company. The negative of the question is urged
by the Attorney General in an argument of strength in
which he contends the court did not consider ot give any
effect to the act of 1906 but considered only the act of
1858 and decided that the canal company did not acquire
the rights under it which the company contends for. In
other words, decided that the act of 1858 gave no rights
which the State did not already have and which it was
entitled to possess upon the expiration of the charter of
the canal company. There is, as we have said, strength in
the contention, but, of course, the fact that the Supreme
Court did not refer to the act of 1906 does not put it aside
from consideration. If it was the assertion of legislative
power against the contract of the company and a legislative provision against the obligation of the contract, and
was an essential, although unmentioned,, element of the
decision under review, itis a basis for the Federal question
set up. Nor need bad motives be imputed to the legislature. It is not the motive which caused the enactment of
the law which is of account, but the effect of the enactment, impairing the rights resting in the contract. And
this, we think, wag the effect of the act of 1906. It was
treated as an important factor in the State's petition in
both the charging part and the prayer. The Board of
Control had something else to do besides to wait. It was
an agency of invasion and it was by its especial command
demand upon the coml
that the Attorney Gener made

CARONDELET CANAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.
233 U. S.

377

Opinion of the Court.

pany. 1 And in this the board exercised the power given
it; and to remove the impediments to the exercise of the
power, "all laws and parts of laws in conflict with" the
act of 1906 which conferred the power were repealed. The
repeal of a law which constitutes a contract is an impairI"Messrs. A. J. Davidson, J. H. Elliott and Hans Widner, Liquidators of the Carondelet Canal and Navigation Co., of New Orleans,
New Orleans, La.:
"Dear Sirs-In view of the fact that the time during which the
Carondelet Canal and Navigation Company of New Orleans has had
the right to enjoy the possession and control of the Carondelet Canal
and Bayou St. John, together with the Old Basin, with all of the revenue derived therefrom, has expired, and that it becomes the duty of
the State of Louisiana, through the Board of Control for the Bayou
St. John and Carondelet Canal and Old Basin, to take possession of the
said Carondelet Canal, Bayou St. John and Old Basin, together with
all the property and improvements connected therewith, or in any wise
thereto belonging or appertaining, in order that the same may be controlled, managed, and administered by said board, for the use and
benefit of the State, and, in view of the further fact that, at a meeting
of said Board of Control, held on the first day of October, 1908, a resolution was adopted requesting me, as Attorney General of the State, to
take such action. as, in my judgment, would be proper to 'have the
State put into possession of the Bayou St. John, Carondelet Canal and
Old Basin, and all its properties and rights,' I now hereby make formal
demand upon you to deliver into the possession and control of the said
Board of Control of the Bayou St. John and Carondelet Canal and
Old Basin, the said Bayou St. John and Carondelet Canal and Old
Basin, together with all the properties and improvements connected
therewith or in any wise thereto belonging or appertaining. In default
of your complying with this formal demand, within a reasonable delay,
I now notify you that I will institute suit for the purpose of recovering,
for the State, to be controlled, managed and operated by the Board
of Control aforesaid, the said Carondelet Canal and Bayou St. John
and Old Basin, together with al the properties and improvements
connected therewith or thereto belonging or appertaining.
"Be pleased to let me hear from you at your earliest convenience, and
oblige,
"Yours truly,
(Signed) "W.kLTER GuioN,
"Attorney General."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

ment of its obligation. "It may be laid down, as a general
principle, that, whenever a law is in its own nature a
contract, and absolute rights have vested under it, a repeal-of that law cannot divest those rights, or annihilate or
impair the title so acquired." 2 Story on the Constitution,
§ 1391. The provision of the Constitution against the
impairment of the obligation of contracts was intended
"to prohibit every mode or device having such purpose.
The prohibition is universal. It attempted no enumeration of the modes by which contracts might be impaired.
It would have been unwise to have made such enumeration, since it might have been defective." Id., § 1386. The
precaution was necessary. The prohibition is directed
against the exertions of sovereignty which the citizens,
unless protected by the organic law, would be impotent
to resist, whether boldly declared in an explicit law or
disguised in an ambiguous form. This case is an illustration. Here is a property sought to be taken from
the canal company, and there can be no doubt that the
Board of Control, through the affirmative and repealing
provisions of the act of 1906, was to be the instrument
and moving agency. The motion to dismiss must, therefore, be denied, and we are brought to the merits of the
controversy-Did the acts of 1857 and 1858 constitute
a contract?
In the consideration of that question we do not think
it is necessary to discuss with any particularity the contributions, respectively, of the State and the canal company and its predecessors to the construction of the canal
and its appurtenant properties. The case exhibits from
the first conception and commencement of the enterprise
by Governor Carondelet through its successive development and extension the interest the State had in its accomplishment and the difficulties which had to be overcome, two corporations going down to insolvency in the
undertaking, the State being compelled to resume the

CARONDELET CANAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.
233 U. S.

379

Opinion of the Court.

powers it had conferred and make provision for granting
them to more efficient instruments. In these circumstances we find the impelling causes of the act of 1857.
A word or two of the act of 1852 becomes pertinent. It
provided that in case of a judgment of forfeiture against
the Orleans Navigation Company a liquidating commissioner should be appointed who should take possession
of the entire property of the company, real and personal,
movable and immovable, and, after advertisement, sell
the same in block at public auction. The conditions of
sale were that the purchasers should "organize themselves into a corporation under the laws of this State, for
a term of twenty-five years, for the purpose of carrying
out and effecting all the improvements detailed and described in the reports and plans known as Harrison's
reports and plans, including the construction of a new
basin at the junction of Canal Carondelet and Bayou St.
John, of the depth and dimensions set forth in said reports," and to actually complete them within the term of
three years from the date of the charter of the corporation.
It was provided that at the end of the term of twentyfive years the State should have the option of granting
a renewal of the right of receiving the tolls for a second
term of twenty-five years or of purchasing for itself "the
property and the improvements of the company" at the
appraised value thereof, and provided further that if the
said term of twenty-five years be granted, the whole
property should revert to the State at the end of the second
term, without' any payment of compensation made to the
company. Work and improvements were to be commenced within six months and completed within six years,
otherwise the right, title and interest acquired, together
with the improvements that might be made, should vest
in and belong to the State. The purchasers organized
themselves into a corporation called the New Orleans
Canal and Navigation Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913,
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Then came the act of 1857. It organized the present
canal company, making the capital stock of the company
$500,000. The company Was authorized to take possession of the canal for the purpose of completing the works
of improvement undertaken and commenced by the New
Orleans Canal and Navigation Company under the provisions of the act of 1852. The canal company was given authority to depart from the plan "of the improvement of
said Canal and Bayou" designated as 'Harrison's plan,' so
far as the plan proposes a basin at the junction of the said
Canal with the Bayou, if the board of directors should
determine that such works were not demanded by the interests, safety or convenience of commerce.
It was provided that in case of the New Orleans Canal
& Navigation Company's failure to perform the obligations undertaken by it, suit should be instituted to forfeit its charter, franchises and privileges and property,
including the interest in the Canal Carondelet and Bayou
St. John and the works done and effected therein, which,
after appraisement, should be sold and payment made
therefor in the stock of the new corporation, the canal
company. With expressions of detail, it was provided
that the new company might take and have all and singular the rights, privileges, franchises, immunities, powers
and authority which had been at any time granted to and
possessed and exercised by the Orleans Navigation Company under §§ 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the act of 1850 and
those possessed and exercised under the acts of 1850 and
1852 by the New Orleans Canal.& Navigation Company.
The new company was to assume all of the debts and
obligations imposed on the old one by the act of 1852,
except in so far as the provisions of said act were modified
or changed in and by the act of 1857.
The canal company was required to complete the works
required by the act of 1852 within three years from and
after the seventeenth of October, 1857, subject to the

CARONDELET CANAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.
233 U. S.

381

Opinion of the Court.

modification provided, and in the case of failure the franchise, rights, privileges and immunities granted should
cease and be forfeited to and become the property of the
State.
The canal company was given an existence of twentyfive years from and after the seventeenth of October,
1857, "provided that the State of Louisiana shall have
the right to take possession of said Canal Carondelet and
Bayou St. John, and all the property and improvements
connected therewith, at the expiration of the term above
mentioned, should the Legislature determine so to do, paying to this corporation the value of said property, to be
appraised by five competent persons, as experts, two to
be appointed by this corporation and two by the Governor,
and the four thus appointed shall appoint a fifth; said
experts shall be required to take an oath to discharge
their duty faithfully. In the event that the State shall
not determine to take possesion of said property, as herein
provided, then this corporation shall be in existence for
twenty-five years from and after the expiration of the
term in this section mentioned aforesaid, and at the end
of such second term of twenty-five years, the said property
may still become absolutely the property of the State of
Louisiana, and no compensation required to be made to
this corporation." (§ 20, Act No. 160, March 16, 1857.)
The act of 1858 comes next to be considered. It gives
the right to construct lay7outs, basins, and half moons,
for steam and any other water craft on the Bayou St.
John, the basin and canal and to extend them, provided
public roads be constructed around them and be kept'
subject to the ordinance of the city of New Orleans.
The company was given (§ 2) the right to construct
a railroad, with single or double track, on either side of
the Basin, Canal and Bayou St. John from the head of the
basin, on Toulouse Street, to the lake end, and transport
freight and passengers for hire and employ steam loco-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

motives within such limits of the city as the common
council may prescribe.
After five years from the passage of the act, the city
was prohibited from draining in the bayou except upon
payment of indemnity. And the city is given the right to
build bridges over the canal and bayou.
Section 4 is as follows: ."That the said company shall
enjoy corporate succession during fifty years from this
date; after which time it [italics ours] may revert to the
State, upon due compensation being made according to
award, by three commissioners, one appointed by the
Governor of the State, one by the company, and the third
by any Court of Record of New Orleans." (Act No. 74,
March 10, 1858.)
By subsequent section the company is given the right
to tow vessels; exclusive power to carry out their works
in conformity with such plan or plans as it may at any
time adopt and deem best calculated to forward the interests of commerce; to impose fines for violation of its
rules; to issue bonds and to secure them by hypothecating
and mortgaging "all its property, privileges, and immunities whatever," the amount of bonds not to exceed
$250,000; and the company shall be exempt from taxation.
The controversy centers in § 4 and turns upon the antecedent to the pronoun "it" in the sentence "after which
time it may revert to the State."
The natural and grammatical use of a relative pronoun
is to put it in close relation with its anteeedent, its purpose
being to connect the antecedent with a descriptive phrase.
In the provision under discussion "it" stands in the place
of something that is to revert to the State, and, following,
therefore, the natural and grammatical use of "it," its
antecedent would be the noun "company" (said company). The Supreme Court of the State, however, considered that there war ambiguity in the relation of "it"
and rejected "company" as the antecedent and observed

CARONDELET CANAL CO. v, LOUISIANA.
233 U. S.

383

Opinion of the Court.

that it could not relate to any of the things provided for
in succeeding sections nor to the "lay outs, basins and
half-moons" mentioned in § 1 and decided that the antecedent was the railroad authorized to be constructed by
the canal company by § 2. The court, after elaborate
argument, expressed the view that the company could
not revert to the State, and, as it had no property in the
canal and its appurtenances, the only thing which could
revert to the State was the railroad. "Whether this be
the true solution of the problem or not," the court said,
p.. 310, "we are unable to find anything else in the act of
1858 than the railroad to which the relative 'it,' as used
in section 4, can in any way be made to relate." And it
was further said that there being nothing else to which
"it" could relate other than the railroad and that, "having
never been built, can afford no basis for defendant's demand for compensation and for a continuance of its possession of public property" (p. 320).
We are unable to concur in the learned court's conclusion. We have already pointed out that the first companies organized went down successively in bankruptcy.
Neither the rights given them nor the purpose for which
they were given averted financial disaster. The same
rights and property, in the main contingent upon the same
conditions, were conferred upon the canal company, the
record shows, by the act cf 1857, but they offered no
prospect of success and the company was about to abandon its charter, when the act of 1858 was passed. It was
effective, and its effectiveness must have been due to the
additive rights which it conferred and the security which
it gave them. We have stated its provision and those of
the acts which preceded it. Let us repeat them, for in
them we shall find the answer to the quegtion whether any
property existed in the canal company which could revert
to the State, under § 4 of the act of 1858, except the railroad. For the answer we need not go farther back than

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

' 233 U. S.

1852. In the act of that year the rights and property of
the Orleans Navigation Company were conveyed through
it4 liquidators after proper legal proceedings to certain
individuals who were to organize themselves into a corporation for the term of twenty-five years which was to
undertake the construction of the work, with an 'option
on the part of the State to grant a renewal of rights for
another term of twenty-five years "or of purchasing for
itself the property and improvements of the company at the
appraisedvalue thereof." In case of the grant of a second
term, at its end "the whole property" was to revert to the
State "without any payment or compensation made to
said company."
These provisions are a recognition of a property interest
in the canal which would be acquired by the corporation
that was to be organized. This is put beyond doubt by
a subsequent provision. If the corporation did not complete the work in the time the act designated, it was provided that "all right, title and interest acquired by the purchaser, under the provisions of this act, together with any
improvements that may be made, shall vest in and belong to
the State."
The corporation was organized, as we have said, and
became the New Orleans Canal and Navigation Company.
The latter company failing to perform its undertaking, the
Carondelet Canal and Navigation Company, plaintiff in
error, Was, under the act of 1857, organized, and possession of the property was given to it for the purpose and
with the rights, powers and privileges as provided in the
act of 1857. There was a provision in that act, as we have
seen, as in the act of 1852, for successive corporate terms of
twenty-five years. At the end of the first term the State
should "have the right to take possession of said Canal
Carondelet and Bayou St. John, and all the property and
improvements connected therewith, . . . should the
legislature determine so to do," upon paying the value

CARONDELET CANAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.
233 U. S.

385

Opinion of the Court.

thereof, to be appraised in the manner provided. If the
State did not elect to purchase the property as provided,
the second term of twenty-five years began, at the end
of which it was provided that the "said property may still
become absolutely the property of the State of Louisiana,
and no compensation required to be made" to the canal
company.
These provisions were idle-barren of everything but
mischief and misleading effect-if the contention now
made is tenable that the canal company, and necessarily
as well its predecessors in the work, could acquire no
property because the Bayou St. John was navigable water
and the improvements had become appurtenant to it.
Under the comprehensiveness of the contention there were
no "property and improvements" to appraise or purchase,
although the act declared there were both; there was no
property to revert to the State, although the act provided
for it, and took the precaution of excluding the requirement of paying for it. These circumstantial provisions
cannot be misunderstood. They were not a precaution
against the assertion of unfounded rights; they were the
recognition of rights to be purchased and paid for in one
contingency, to revert to the State without "compensation
made" in the other contingency.
There was something more then than a prospective
railroad for "it" to relate to and we might consider the
contention of the State disposed of without the necessity
of further discussion. The Supreme Court recognized
that as "the act of 1858 contains no repealing clause, and
the act of 1857 is in parimateria, the search for the vagrant
antecedent [it was so considered by the court] may be
prosecuted in the last mentioned statute" (p. 310). The
court, however, did not locate the antecedent there because of the view that the railroad was the only property
that the canal company had which could revert to the
State. But, we have seen, there was property provided
VOL. .ccxxx-u-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

for in the act of 1857 substantial enough to have value
to be appraised and purchased, substantial enough therefore torevert to the State. Not, it may be, property to be
considered the antecedent looked for but significantly
determining it to be something else than the railroad which
was but a subordinate instrument in the scheme and
which might or might not be built.
The rights and property conveyed and provided for by
the act of 1857 were then of substance and value and yet
the enterprise halted. We need not conjecture the cause.
It is manifest that the failures of the past warned against
the conditions of the act of 1857. A large sum of money
was necessary. It was conceived it might be as much as
$500,000, and to encourage its investment the act of 1858
was passed. This being its purpose, whatever changes it
made in the act of 1857 it must be construed as having been
adopted to effect such purpose. A prominent fact in it
was that it contemplated a greater expenditure than the
capital of the company and authorized an issue of bonds
of not exceeding $250,000. It is true that it was provided
that the sum should be employed upon the improvement
of the navigation of the canal and the building of the
railroad; but, notwithstanding, -the authorization of the
bonds indicates the conception of the amount necessary
for the undertaking.
The act of 1858 made other changes to which We have
referred and it may be assumed that all of them were of
some value to the State or to the company or to both.
The Supreme Court assigned a special value to the power
given to the company to 'adopt its own plans instead of
being confined to the Harrison report and plans. The
record, however, affords no basis of estimating the importaice of this choice; besides by the act of 1857 the company had been authorized to depart from Harrison's plans
in certain particulars, and what would have remained of
them after exercises of the right we have no means of

CARONDELET CANAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.
233 U. S.

387

Opinion of the Court.

knowing. But it was certainly not intended by the discretion conferred to give the company power to construct
the works in a cheap and inefficient manner, and it is not
intimated that the discretion was not wisely conferred or
not wisely exercised.
We must look, therefore, for some, other motive for the
act of 1858, and we think, as said by Mr. Justice Provosty
in his dissenting opinion, that it "will be sought for in
vain, unless it is to be found in the purpose of prolonging
the unconditional life of the company and the doing away
with the clause for the reversion of its property without
compensation." This conclusion is fortified by the structure of the act and the relation of its parts. We have seen
that the natural and grammatical antecedent of "it" in
§ 4 is "said company," and that it was the intentional
antecedent is clear from the French version of the statute,
the practice of the State at that time being to publish
statutes in French and English.
The use of "elle" in the French version is of strong
significance. There is no neuter gender in the French
language, every noun is masculine or feminine, and the
pronoun which stands for it must agree with it in gender
as in English, but in French there is more certain indicaion of the antecedent. The neuter it relative to a noun
is il or elle and therefore the use of elle in the French version
points unmistakably to an antecedent of the same gender-to " cette compagnie," and not to " un chemin de fer."
Thus, wholly aside from which text is controlling, the
context of both versions removes all doubt as to the meaning of the laws.
It is true, in a sense, that the company could not revert,
for as a legal entity it would expire; but what it represented
and possessed could revert--the result of its investments
and energies, the property it had acquired under legislative
sanction and the property it had created under like sanction. The company stood for its attributes and property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

It may be that it did not own the canal, or the bayou or
the old basin. Indeed, ownership of their soil was disclaimed at the bar. But, we repeat, there was valuable
property which the statute contemplated could revert and
could be compensated for. Monongahela Navigation Co.
v. United States, 148 U. S.312.
The Attorney General separates in his argument the
canal, the bayou and the old basin from the other properties and urges that at least as to them the State is entitled
to take possession. And he seems to concede that the
act of '1858 contemplated payment to the canal company
not only for the railroad but also for the 'lay-outs, basins
and half-moons'-giving "it" an antecedent of greater
scope than did the Supreme Court. To the contention,
however, that a distinction may be made between the
properties, it must be answered that neither the act of
1857 nor that of 1858 makes such a distinction. The language of the act of 1858 is comprehensive and provides
that all which is represented by "it" "may revert to the
State upon due compensation being made according to
award." And the same answer must be made to the contention that the company only has a lease of the properties
and that its relation to the State being that of lessee, it,
therefore, "has no defense to the State's demand for post
session of the property." Whatever the relation created,
payment of compensation was a condition precedent of
the reversion to the State. It certainly was not intended
to remit the canal company to a claim against the State.
How would it be enforced against the resistance of the
State, the sovereignty of the State giving immunity from
suit?
Judgment is revere d and the case remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

