STEIGLEDER v. McQUESTEN.
198U. S.

Statement of the Case.

STEIGLEDER v. MOQUESTEN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 227. Submitted April 14, 1905-Declded April 24,19M.

An-averment m the bill of the diverse citizenship of the parties is sufficient to
make a prma facw case of jurisdiction so far as it depends -on citizenship.
While under the act of 1789, an issue as to the fact of citizenship can only
be made by plea of abatement, when the pleadings properly aver citizenship, it is the duty of the court, under the act of March 3, 1875, which
is still m force, to dismiss the suit at any time when its want of jurisdiction appears.
A motion to dismiss the cause, based upon proofs taken by the master,
is an appropriate mode m which to raise the question of jurisdiction.
Residence and citizenship are wholly different things within the meaning
of the Constitution and the laws defining and regulating the juxisdic-.
tion of the Circuit Courts of the United States; and a mere averment
of rebidence in a State is not an averment of citizenship m that State
for the purposes of jurisdiction.
One who has been for many years a citizen of a State is still a citizen thereof,
although residing temporarily in another State but without any purpose
of abandoning citizenship in the former.
THE bill filed in the Circuit Court by.the plaintiff, McQuesten,
alleged her to. be "a citizen of the United States and of the
State of Massachusetts, and residing at Turners Falls in said
State," while -the defendants Steigleder and wife were alleged
to be "citizens of the State of Washington, and residing at the
dity of Seattle in said State."
The object of the suit was to obtain a decree adjudging defendants to be trustees for the plaintiff in respect of certain
real estate in King County, State of Washington. The defendants demurred to the bill for want of equity The demurrer
was overruled' and the defendants answered, without making
any issue as to the citizenship of the parties, but denying the
alleged trust, and averring that there had been a final settlement-between the parties before the institution of the suit in
respect of all the matters in dispute.
The. cause was referred to a master, and, after proof was

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

taken, the defendants moved the court to dismiss the suit for
want of jurisdiction, the reason assigned in the motion being
only that the plaintiff was, and for a long time prior to the
commencement of the suit had been, a "resident" of the State
of Washington, while the defendants were "residents" of the
same State.
The motion to dismiss was denied, and the case went to a
-decree in favor of the plaintiff upon the merits.
The defendants were granted an appeal directly to this
court, the question of jurisdiction being certified.
Mr John E. Humphes and Mr George B. Cole for appellants.
Mr George McKay and Mr J B. Howe for appellee.
MR. JusTIcEi HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The averment in the bill that the parties were citizens of
different States was sufficient to make"a prma facew case of
jurisdiction so far as it depended on citizenship, While under
the judiciary act of 1789 an issue as to the fact of citizenship
could only be made ky plea in abatement, when the pleadings
properly averred citizenship, the act of March 3, 1875, 18
Stat. 470, 472, c. 137, made it the duty of the Circuit Court,
at any time in the progress of .acause, to dismiss the suit, if it
was satisfied either that it did not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within-the jurisdiction
of the court, or that the parties were improperly or collusively
made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable or removable under the act
of Congress. Sheppard v Graves, 14 How 505, Williams v
Nottawa, 104 U S. 209, 211, Farnmngton v Pillsbury, 114
U S.138, 143, Little v Giles, 118 U S.596, 602, Morms v
Gilmer, 129 U S.315, 326. This provision of the act of 1875
was not superseded by the judiciary act of 1887, 1888, and is

STEIGLEDER v. McQUESTEN.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

still in force. Lehigh Min. & Manuf. Co. v Kelly, 160 U. S.
327, 339; Lake County Com'rs v Dudley, 173 U. S. 243, 251,
Deflance Water Co. v Defiance, 191 U S. 184, 194, 195, Minnesota v Northern Securities Co., 194 U S. 48, 66. The. motion
to dismiss the cause, based upon the proofs taken by the
master, was, therefore, an appropriate n ode in which to raise
the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
It is to be observed that the grounds assigned for the motion
to dismiss the cause, taken alone, did not distinctly raise any
question concerning the absence of diverse citizenship, for the
motion only stated that the plaintiff and the defendants were,
respectively, residents of the State of Wahmgton. But it
has long been settled that resildece and citizenship are wholly
different things within the meaning of the Constitution and the
laws defining and regulating the jurisdiction 6f the Circuit
Courts of the United States;' and that a mere averment of
residence in a particular State is not an averment of citizenship
in that State for the purposes of jurisdiction. Parker v Overman, 18 How 137, Robertson v. Cease, 97- U S.646, Everhart
v Huntsville College, 120 U S.223, Timmons v Elyton Land
Co., 139 IT S.378, Denny v P'tron, 141 U S.121, '123, Wolfe
v Hartford L. & A. Ins. Co., 148 U S.389.
But the Circuit Court treated the question of jurisdiction
as raised and passed upon it. 'Wemust therefore look at the
evidence bearing on that point. Defiance Water Co. v Defiance,
191 U. S.184, 194,. 195. The evidence warrants the conclusion
reached by that court, namely, that the plaintiff was, for many
years prior to the commencement of the action, a citizen of
Massachusetts, and that her residence in the State of Wash-mgton, at and before the suit was brought, is not shown to be
otherwise than temporary, without any fixed purpose to abandon citizenship in Massachusetts. So far as appears from the.
record, she was, when the stlt was ba-ought, a citizen of Massachusetts.
The Circuit Court did not err ifl taking jurisdiction- of the
cause, and
It will be so certified.

