OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

guarantees, and if it did so intend, I do not believe that it has
the power to do so.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAm concurred m the foregoing dissent.
MR. JUSTICE DATY also dissented.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO v. CHICAGO
TITLE & TRUST COMPANY.
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUI
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
Xo. 139. Argued January 19 20D,1(,.-Dectded May 15,1905.

The trustee in bankruptcy claiming the right of possesson of certain merchandise of the bankrupt in storage, warehouse receipts for which he
had hypothecated for loans, instituted summary proceedings for possession
and directions for sale in the District Court. Claimants who were the
warehousemen and holders of Warehouse receipts objected to the jurmdiction but were overruled and thereafter the trustee and claimant stipulated for sale of the property and deposit of proceeds subject to further
order of the court. The District Court held that claimants were entitled
to the property. The trustee appealed and the claimants demed their
right of appeal. The Circuit Court' of Appeals reviewed the facts and
found the trustee entitled to possession. On certiorari held, that:
As the proceeding was one in bankruptcy there was no appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals and its jurisdiction was confined, under clause of § 24,
to revision in matter of law on notice and petition.
The provisions as to revision in matter of law and appeal must be construed
in view of distinctions recognized in § 23, 24 and 25, between steps
in bankruptcy-proceedings proper and controversies arising out of the
settlement of estates.
The bankruptcy court is without jurisdiction to determine adverse claims
to property not in the possession of the assignee in bankruptcy by summary proceedings, whether absolute title or only a lien is asserted, and
suits by a trustee may only be brought m courts where they might have
been brought by the bankrupt.
The fact that the clamaunits followed the case after their objections to the
jurisdiction- of the District Court had been overruled, did not amount

FIRST NAT. BANK v. TITLE & TRUST CO.
198 U. S.

281

Statement of the Case.

to a waiver of the objections or consent to the jurisdiction of the court,
and the sale of the merchandise by court did not, under the circumstances of this case, change the situation or create a fund which conferred jurisdiction.
The Citcuit Court of Appeals had no juzisdiction of the appeals and they
should have been dismissed.
The District Court had no jurisdiction to go to judgment in the proceedmg and on ascertaining that fact should have declined to retain it, and
have entered a decree for the return of the money to the claimants without prejudice to the right of the-trustee to litigate in a proper court.
Although it turns out that if the District Court has not jurisdiction it may
proceed until that fact appears and may, on consent, direct a sale of perishable property involved, and on relinquishing jurisdiction an order returning the proceeds is equivalent to an order returning the property.

THE petition for certiorari represented.
"1. That for some years prior to the 10th day of May, 1901,
Alexander Rodgers was a wholesale dealer in seeds in the city
of Chicago, Illinois, and that on said day he was adjudged a
bankrupt by the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois, and the Chicago Title and Trust
Company, respondent herem, was duly appointed receiver,
and subsequently trust4, of the estate of said bankrupt.
"2. That the National Storage Company, respondent, is a
corporation organized under the laws of Illinois to do, and is
engaged in doing, a warehousing business in the State of
Illinois and elsewhere. That some months prior to said 10th
day of May, said storage company issued to said Alexander
Rodgers sundry warehouse receipts which were similar except
as to the quantities and dates; one of which said receipts is
in the words and figures following:
" 'Warrant No. 8401. Lot No. 1.
"'The National Storage Company, office 217 First National
Bank Building, Chicago, hereby acknowledges to have received two hundred and fifty (250) bags timothy seed, said to
.weigh 31,751 pounds, contained in div B, sec. 1, fifth floor,
at its warehouse premises No. 281, located at 220-230 Johnson street, Chicago, Illinois, and will surrender the same to
the order hereon of Alexander Rodgers upon.-payment of

OCTOBER TER3M, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

charges and delivery of this warrant, at its office m Chicago,
duly endorsed.
" 'It is agreed that this company is not responsible for loss
or damage to property occasioned by fire, water, leakage,
vermin, ratage, skrmkage, accidental or providential causes,
riots or insurrection, frost or change of weather, or from being
perishable while in storage, and that this company shall, in
the custody of the above property, be the agent of the holder
of this warrant.
" 'Storage and charges as per contract on file with this
company
" 'Chicago, Aug. 31, 1900.'"
[Signed by the National Storage Company by its. president
and treasurer, and the corporate seal affixed.]
"That immediately thereafter said- Rodgers endorsed and
hypothecated thirteen of said receipts to your petitioner, the
First National Bank of Chicago, to secure loans made by it
to him aggregating about $12,000, and endorsed and hypothecated five of said receipts to your petitioner, H. W Rogers &
Brother, to secure a loan by them to him of $5,000, and that
said loans are still unpaid and due to petitioners respectively,
and said petitioners, at the time said Rodgers was adjudged
a bankrupt, held and still hold said warehouse receipts as
security for said loans respectively
"3. That on the 13th day of May, 1901, said Chicago Title
and Trust Company, as said receiver, filed in said District
Court a petition reciting that it had taken possession of the
seed, mentioned rn said warehouse receipts, and asking the
court's directions m respect to a sale thereoT. That to said
petition each of these petitioners filed a special appearance,
specially objecting to the jurisdiction of said District Court
over said seed, and such petitioner, as did also said National
Storage Company That thereupon the court referred said
petition to a referee to take proof and report his conclusions;
that the referee took proof.and reported that the seed covered

FIRST NAT' BANK v. TITLE & TRUST CO.
198 U. S.

283

Statement of the Case

by said warehouse receipts was, at the time of the adjudication in bankruptcy, in the possession of said storage company,
that the District Court was without jurisdiction, and recommending a dismissal of said petition.
"That subsequently exceptions to said report were heard
by said DistriCt Court, and it confirmed the referee's finding
as to possession, but overruled his finding as to jurisdiction
and held it had jurisdiction, and ordered (the petitioner, First
National Bank, consenting) that said seed be sold and the
proceeds thereof be deposited with said First National Bank,
subject to the further order of said court; that said seed was
s6ld, and the amount realized therefrom was in excess of the
amounts of petitioners' said claims, and this money is still-in
the hands of the petitioner, the First National Bank.
"That said petitioners thereupon severally filed petitions
in said court, asking payment of their said clamis out of said
proceeds. That said Chicago Title and Trust Company, as
trustee, and the .respondents, James A. Patten, and E. W
Bailey & Company as creditors, answered said petitions, denying the right of your petitioners to said fund, and thereupon
said petitions were referred to said referee to take additional
proof and report the same to the court, and the said matter
again coming before the court -upon the report of said referee
and exceptions thereto, said petitions. of your petitioners were
consolidated, and the court confirmed said report of said
referee, except so far as it found a lack of jurisdiction in said
District Court, and adjudged that said District Court had
jurisdiction, that said decree also found that said storage company was, at the time of the filing of the bankruptcy petition
herein, in the possession of, and entitled to the possession of,
said seed, and decreed that petitioner, First National Bank,
retain out of said proceeds the sum of $9,854.15 on account
of its claim, and pay therefrom to petitioners, H. W Rogers
& Brother, $5,000.
"That thereupon said Chicago Title and Trust Company,
as trustee, and said James A. Patten severally perfected ap-

284:

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

peals from said order or decree to. the Circuit Court of Appeals
of- the Seventh Circuit.
"That thereafter said two appeals were. duly filed m said
Circuit Court of Appeals, and were there, by order of court,
consolidated and heard as one case.
"That said Circuit Court of Appeals thereafter filed its
opinion in said consolidated causes reviewing the question
of fact whether the storage company was in possession, of said
seed at the time of the proceedings in bankruptcy, and held
that said District Court had erred in deciding this question
of fact, and overruled said District Court upon said question
of fact, and decided that said storage company was not in
possession of said seed, and remanded said cause with directions to enter a decree for said trustee.
"That thereafter these petitioners filed a petition for rehearing in said cause, which was subsequently denied.
"That your petitioners are advised by counsel that there
existed in law no right of appeal by said trustee or said Patten
from said order of said District Court, and that, if said alleged
attempts to appeal should be treated strictly as appeals, said
Circuit Court of Appeals was without -jurisdiction of tlhe
subject-matter, and its said order reversing said decree of t!le
District Court was null and void.
"That your petitioners are also advised by counsel that, if
said appeals rightly could be, and were, treated by said Circuit
Court of Appeals as in effect petitions for revision, said Circuit Court of Appeals, by the express terms of the bankruptcy
statute, was limited in its jurisdiction to a revision of the
decision of the District Court in matter of law, and that said
Circuit Court of Appeals, in reversing said District Court upon
the said question of fact, proceeded without jurisdiction, and
in violation of the said statute."
The granting of the writ was objected to, and it was stated
that Alexander Rodgers, the bankrupt, filed his petition in
bankruptcy May 8, 1901, that the Chicago Title and Trust
Company was appointed receiver the same day; and that the

FIRST NAT. BANK v. TITLE & TRUST CO.
198 U. S.

285

Argument for Petitioners.

bankrupt turned over his property, including the seed in dispute, to the receiver. And it was insisted that the-proceeding
was a plenary suit, to the institution of which, in the District
Court sitting in bankruptcy, the petitioners as adverse parties,
had consented. Certiorari was granted, and thereafter a
motion to quash the writ was filed on the ground that the
matters involved and determined m the cause were controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings. as distinguished
from proceedings in bankruptcy, and that the remedy was by
error or appeal rather than by certiorari. Consideration of
this motion was postponed to the hearing on the merits.
The case in the Circuit Court of Appeals is reported 125
Fed. Rep. 169.
Mr Henry S. Robb.ns, with whom Mr Wallace Heckman
and Mr.James G. Etsdon were on the brief, for petitioners:
As" to the jurisdiction of the courts belowThis case in the District Court was a proceeding in bankruptcy Bardes v Hawarden Bank, 178 U S. 524, In re
Screen Door Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 249; and. otherwise that court
had no jurisdiction. The rule was the same under the act
of 1867 Smith v Mason, 14 Wall. 419; Marshall v Knox,
16 Wall. 551, Knight v Cheney, Fed. Cas. No. 7883, In re
Marter, Fed. Cas. No. 9143, In-re Ballou, Fed. Cas. No. 818;
In re Bonesteel, Fed. Cas. 1627, Barstow v Peckham, Fed.
Cas. 1064, Rogers v Winsor, Fed. Cas. No. 12,023.
The fact that, after the court had overruled their objections
to jurisdiction, these petitioners followed the case-as, without a sacrifice, they could not otherwise do-does not amount
to a waiver of these objections. Louisville Trust Co. v Cornsngor, 184 U. S. 18, Re Baudoune, 101 Fed. Rep. 574.
The District Court was not without jurisdiction ab snitio.
It necessarily must have jurisdiction to proceed up to the
point of determining that there exists an adverse claim, that
is, that the property is in the possession of an adverse claimant.
Louisville Trust Co, v. Comingor, 184 U, S. 18, Lathrop v,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Respondents.

-198 U. S.

Drake, 91 U S. 516, Mueller v Nugent, 184 U S. 1, In re
Baird, 116 Fed. Rep. 765, In re Kane, 131 Fed. Rep. 386.
The proceeding in the District Court being a proceeding
in bankruptcy, the only jurisdiction which the Circuit Court
of Appeals had thereof arose out of §§ 24b, 25a, of the bankruptey act.
A judgment in a proceeding by or against a lien holder,
which merely establishes or rejects the lien, and does not
decide whether a claim is a provable debt in bankruptcy, is
not a judgment allowing or rejecting the debt or claim within
see. 25a, 3. In re Rouse, Hazard Company, 91 Fed. Rep. 96,
In re Worcester County, 102 Fed. Rep. 808, In re Abraham, 93
Fed. Rep. 767, In re Whitener, 105 Fed. Rep. 180; Hutchsnson
v Otis, 190 U. .S. 552.
It follows, then, that no appeal lay to the Circuit Court
of Appeals nor can the appeal be treated as a petition for revision under § 24b. Cases supra and Stickney v Witt, 23
Wall. 150; Cleveland Insurance Co. v Globe Insurance Co., 98
U. S. 366.
The Circuit Court of Appeals should, when this point of
jurisdiction was raised, have dismissed th6 appeal. It should
have done so even had counsel not raised the question. M.
C &L.M Ry. Co.v Swan, 111U S. 379.
Hence, that court acted without jurisdiction, and certiorari
is proper to correct this. Amerwan Sugar Ref. Co. v New
Orleans, 181 U S. 277, Kingman v Manu/acturingCo., 170
U S. 675.
If the appeal were properly treated as a petition for revision,
the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in"not confining its action
to revision in matter of law Chesapeake Shoe Co. v Seldner,
122 Fed. Rep. 593, Re Screen Door Co., supra.
Mr Joseph E. Paden and Mr Newton Wyeth, with whom
Mr James H. Reed and Mr James H. Beal were on the brief,
for respondents:
As to the jurisdiction of the courts below"

FIRST NAT. BANK v. TITLE & TRUST CO.
198 U. S.

287

"Argwment for Respondents.

The District Court had jurisdiction. The sale of the merchandise was by °consent and this constituted a fund held subject to the order of the court and the petitioners cannot object
to the jurisdiction.
The case was properly heard and disposed of m the Circuit
Court of Appeals, as an appeal, and in any event, the petitioners, having raised no objection to'the form in which the
case was heard by the Circuit Court of Appeals, cannot now
question the right of that court so to hear and dispose of the
case. Hewit v Berlin Machne Works, 194 U S. 296, Re
Jacobs,,99 Fed. Rep. 539; Plymouth Cordage Co. v Smith, 194
U. S. 311.
As the Court of Appeals had jurisdiction over the subject
matter, and'the objection now made relates only to the form
in which the power of the court should be exercised, the
petitioners having made no objection to the Circuit Court. of
Appeals hearing and determining the case as an appeal, are
now estopped from making.such objection. Chesapeake Shoe
Co. v Seidnek, 122 Fed. Rep. 593.
If appeal is improper the same can be treated as petition for revision. Re Rwhards, 96 Fed. Rep. 935, Re Abraham, 93 Fed. Rep. 767, Chesapeake Shoe Co. v Seldner,
supra.
Hewit v. Berlin Ma6hine Works, 194 U S. 296, is in point
for this case. See also Jaquith v. Rowley, 188 U S. 620. The
consent necessary is to the tribunal, and not to the form of
procedure. Where a party appears and maintains the bona
fides of the transfer, on a full hearing, answers on the merits
and the like, he will be held to have consented. In re Steurer,
104 Fed. Rep. 976, Bryan v Bernhetmer, 181 U S. 188; Hicks
v Knost, 178 U S. 241.
Consent is not a matter of words, so much. as acts. BoonevilZe National Bank v Blakey, 107 Fed. Rep. 891.
If claimants elect to contest their rights further upon the
merits in the District Court, after the assertion of jurisdiction
in the court, they can consent so to do, and, under § 23b,

OCTOBER TERSM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

waive all question as to jurisdiction. Mueller v Nugent, 184
U S. 1, and cases supra.
Though all United States courts, except the Supreme Court,
may be and are described as inferior courts, yet the District
Courts, as courts of bankruptcy, are not inferior courts in the
sense that jurisdiction. must necessarily appear on the face
of the record. McCormwk v Sullivant, 10 Wheat. 199; Kennedy v Bank, 8 How 586. 611.
These respondents carried the case by appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals and obtained a review on questions of both
fact and law It was competent for the opposite parties to
consent that an appealable case should be heard in the District Court. The appeal was properly heard in the Circuit
Court of Appeals. Elliott v Toeppner, 187 U S. 327; Duncan
v Landis, 106 Fed. Rep. 839; Booneville National Bank v.
Blakey, supra.
M. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
In the view we take of the case, the petition for certiorari
sufficiently discloses the facts. If the proceeding in the District Court was a proceeding in bankruptcy and not an mdependent suit, no appeal lay to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and the jurisdiction of that court was confined to revision in
matter of law "on due notice and petition" under clause b
of section 24.
The distinction between steps in bankruptcy proceedings
proper and controversies arising out of the settlement of the
estates of bankrupts is recognized in sections 23, 24 and 25
of the present act, and the provisions as to revision in matter
of law and appeals were framed and must be construed m
view of that distinction. Holden v Stratton, 191 U. S. 115;
Denver First National Bank v Kug, 186 U. S. 202; Elliott v
Toeppner, 187 U. S. 327, 333, 334.
This distinction existed under the prior bankruptcy law,

FIRST NAT. BANK v. TITLE & TRUST CO.
198 U. S.

289

Opinon of.the Court.

and the then decisions in respect of a proceeding in bankruptcy
and an independent suit are applicable. It was settled that
the bankruptcy court was without jurisdiction to determine
adverse claims to property, not in the possession of the assignee in bankruptcy, by summary proceedings, whether absolute title or only a lien was asserted. Smith v Mason, 14
Wall. 419; Marshall v Knox, 16 Wall. 551, In .re Bonesteel, 7
Blatch. 175, Mr. Justice Nelson, Knzght v Cheney, 14 Fed.

Cases, 760, Mr. Justice Clifford, In re Ballou, 4 Ben. 135,
Mr. Justice Blatchford, then District Judge; In re Marter, 16
Fed. Cases, 857, Mr. Justice Brown, then District Judge.
The present act was plainly framed in recognition of the
principle of these cases. Subdivision 7 of section 2 confers
jurisdiction on the District Courts as courts of bankruptcy.
to "cause the estates of bankrupts to be collected, reduced
to money and distributed, and determine controversies in
relation thereto, except as herein otherwise provided;" and
we held in Bardes v Bank, 178 U S. 524, that this exception

referred to clause b of section 23 of the act, which provides:
"Suits by a trustee shall only be brought or prosecuted in the
courts where the bankrupt, whose estate is being administered
by such trustee, might have brought or prosecuted them if
proceedings in bankruptcy had not been instituted, unless by
consent of the proposed defendant." And that the District
Courts had no jurisdiction of such plenary suits without consent.
Petitioners asserted .this express statutory limitation on
jurisdiction and objected that the District Court could not
proceed, but their objections were overruled. That they then
did not abandon their claims did not amount to a waiver of
their objectiozi or to a consent to an exercise of jurisdiction
against which they protested. Loussille Trust Company v

Comzngor, 184 U. S. 18. In that case, to a rule entered in the
bankruptcy court, requiring an adverse claimant in possession
of a fund to pay it to the trustee m bankruptcy, the claimant
tendered a formal response, denying jumdiction, which the
VOL. OXcWIvI-19

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1904.
Opumon of the Cburt.

198 U. S.

court refused to entertain, and he then participated in a hearing upon the merits. The bankruptcy court sustained its
jurisdiction upon the ground that, by his "acquiescence in
that mode of procedure," he had assented to its jurisdiction.
Upon petition for review the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
the bankruptcy court, and this court upon certiorari affirmed
the Circuit Court of Appeals. We said.
"This brought the controversy within the ruling in Bardes
v Bank, 178 U. S. 524, and the questions attempted to be
litigated before the referee and m the District Court as to the
allowance of the two amounts could only be raised in the
District Court by consent, and then only by plenary suit.. If
the jurisdiction of the District Court was not consented to,
then the state court, under the circumstances of this case,
was the proper forum, and the matters in dispute were to be
disposed of there.
"The proceeding was purely summary
"The question is whether the District Court had jurisdiction
to finally adjudicate the merits in this proceeding.
"In many cases jurisdiction may depend on the ascertainment of facts involving the merits, and in that sense the court
exercises jurisdiction in disposing of the preliminary inquiry,
although the result may be that it finds that it cannot go
farther. And where in a case like that before us, the court
erroneously retains jurisdiction to adjudicate the merits, its
action can be corrected on review
"We are of opinion that even if Commgor could have consented to be pursued in this manner, he did not so consent.
He was ruled to show cause, and the cause he showed defeated
jurisdiction over the subject matter, that is jurisdiction to
proceed summarily He did not come in voluntarily; but in
obedience to peremptory orders, and although he participated
in the proceedings before the referee, he had pleaded hu4 claims
in the outset, and he made his formal protest to the exercise
of jurisdiction before the final order was entered."
And since, as elaborately expounded m Bardes v. Bank, the.

FIRST NAT. BANK v. TITLE & TRUST CO.
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

District Court had no jurisdiction of an independent suit, it
follows that the proceeding in that court could not be held
to have been such, as, indeed, in form, on reason, and on
authority, it manifestly was not. But, nevertheless the
District Court had jurisdiction to determine whether it(could
or could not proceed further. Lousville Trust Company v
Comzngor,. 184 U S. 18, Mueller v Nugent, 184 U S. 1, Schweer
v Brown, 195 U S. 171.
In the present case, the receiver filed a petition reciting that
he had taken possession of the property This was demed.
The District Court adjudged that the receiver had not at the
time of filing its petition the right of possession, and that the
National Storage Company, at that date, and also at the time
of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, was entitled to
possession and had possession. Nevettheless it retained jurisdiction and decreed payment to petitioners out of the proceeds
of the sale.
The sale in the circumstances did not change the situation.
The proceeds stood in place of the property and the order
returning the proceeds was equivalent to an order returning
the property This it was proper to do, whether the court had
held that it lacked jurisdiction, or ruled in favor of petitioners
on the merits. The Court of Appeals sustained the jurisdiction of the District Court upon the ground that it had acquired
a fund and had jurisdiction to dispose of it, but we do not think
that a couft of bankruptcy can create a jurisdiction forbidden
by statute. And in any view, the proceeding was a proceedmg in bankruptcy .Being such, an appeal from the decree
of the District Court under section 25a did not lie, and parties
aggrieved could only invoke the supervisory power under
section 24b. tolden v Stratton, 191 U S. 115, Hutchinson v
Otis, 190 U S. 552.
But this was an appeal and not a petition for revision, and
hence it was that the Circuit Court of Appeals reviewed the
questions of fact and declined to accept the findings of the
referee and the District Court. In the exercise of supervisory

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U.S.

power, it would have been confinedto matter of law. We are
clear that an appeal would not lie, and the decrees of the
Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed, with a direction
to dismiss the appeals and remand the cause to the District
Court for further proceedings in conformity with this 'opmion.
In bur view the District Court should have declined upon
its findings to retain jurisdiction, and. in that event the decrees
for the return of the money should have been without prejudice to the right of respondents to litigate in a proper court,
which modification we direct to be made.
Ordered accordingly.

EMPIRE STATE-IDAHO MINING AND DEVELOPING
COMPANY v. HANLEY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 604. Submitted May 1, 190.-Decided May 15, 190.

Where the junsdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked on the ground of
diverse citizenship, it will not be held to rest also on the ground that the
suit arose under the Constitution of the United States, unless it really
and substantially involves a dispute or controversy as to the effect or
construction of the Constitution upon the determination of which the resuit depends, and which appears on the record by a statement in legal and
logical form such as good pleading requires and where the case is not
brought within this rule the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final.
Where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court has been invoked on the ground
of diverse citizenship and plaintiff asserts two causes of action, only one
of which'involves a right under the Constitution, and the Circuit Court
of Appeals decides against him on that cause of action and in Is favor
on the other, the judgment of that 'ourt 'is final and defendant cannot
make the alleged constitutional question on which he has succeeded the
basis of jurisdiction for an appeal to this court.

HANLEY brought this bill in equity in the Circuit Court of

the United States for the Disthct of' Idaho, setting up diversity
of citizenship as the ground of jurisdiction, and asserted owner-

