SCHLoSSER v. HEMPHILL.
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the goods, chattels and credits of Isador -Glaser, deceased,
plaintiff, against Anthony P Langer, defendant, is nor ever
has been pending in this 'couit."
In. cases over which we possess neither original nor appellate
junsdictibn; we cannot grant mandamus. Rev Stat. ยง 716,
In re Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Petitioner,197 U. S. 482.
Of course there is no pretense of original jurisdiction here,
aid since the passage of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826,
c. 517, we have no jmsdiction to review the judgments or
decrees of the District and Circuit Courts directly by appeal
or writ of error in cases such as this case if pending in the
Circuit Court.
.Rule discharged. Petition dented.

SCHLOSSER v. HEMPHILL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 175. Argued March 13,14,1905.-Decided May 8,1905.

Where the judgment of the highest court of a State, m reversmg a judgment against defendant, does not 'direct the court below to dismiss the
petition but rernands the cause for further proceedings, in harmony with
the opinion, it is not a final-judgment in such a sense as to sustain a writ
of error from this court.

THE case is thus stated by the Supreme Court of Iowa, to
which it had been carried by appeal from the District Court
of Palo Alto county"This w an action in equity to quiet title to a tract of some
two hundred and ninety acres of land in the south half of section 30, township'97, range 34, in Palo Alto county Plaintiff
is the admitted owner of lots two and three, forming a -part of
said tract, and containig about 99 acres. According to -the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U.S.

original Government survey, made m 1857, this land was adjacent to a lake, which was meandered, and the meander lines
were run along the north side of the said two lots. The renainder of the land claimed lies between this meander line and
the alleged shore of the lake, and is the subject of the controversy The half section m question-that is, such part of it
as lies beyond the original meander line-was resurveyed by
the GovernmeAt-m the year 1898, and platted into five lots,
of which'lots 11, 14, and 16 are claimed by defendant Hemphill, and lots 12 and 13 by defendant Ryan. These claims are
founded upon conveyances from Palo Alto county, under a
patent issued to the State, under the swamp land grant of 1850,
and which is based upon the resurvey of 1898. Schlosser insists that the meander line is not his boundary, it not marking
the edge of the lake, but that he is entitled to clann up to the
east and west half section line of said section. There was a
decree for plaintiff, and defendants appeal." 118 Iowa, 452.
The Supreme Court ruled that "where a body of water is
meandered, such lines are not boundary lines, and the adjacent
owner will usually take title to the actual shore, but where
there is no adjacent body of water proper to be meandered,
such line becomes a boundary, and a purchaser from the
Government cannot claim title beyond it;" and held upon the
facts that there was no body of water m section thirty necessary to. be meandered, and that plaintiff could not claim title
beyond%the meandered line. The court said m concluding:
"In our opinion, the plaintiff has no right to any other than
the land patented to his grantor, and the decree of the trial
court must therefore be reversed." And entered judgment

as follows:

"IIn this. cause, the court being fully advised m the premises,
le their written opinion reversing the judgment of the District C~urt.
"It is therefore considered by the court that the judgment
of the court. below be and it is hereby reversed and set aside,
and the cause is remanded for further proceedings m harmony

SCHLOSSER v. HEMPHILL.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with the opinion of this court, and that a writ of prcedendo
issue accordingly
"It is 'further considered by the court that the appellee pay
the costp .of this appeal, taxed"at $227.70, and that execution
issUw therefor."
This writ of error was thereupon brought.
Mr Charles A. Clark and Mr. George E. Clarke -for plaintiff
m error.
Mr. E. B. Evans, with whom Mr. H. C. Evans was on the
brief, for -defendants in error.
MR. CmEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the -opinion of the dourt.

By its judgment the Supreme Court of Iowa reversed the
decree of the trial court and remanded the cause "for, further
proceedings mharmony with the opimon-of this court."
We have heretofore held that a judgment couched in such
terms is not final in such a sense as to sustain a writ of error
from this court. 'Haseltsne v Bank, 183 IJ. S. 130. It was
there ruled that ihe face of the judgment- is the test of its
finality, and that this court cannot be called on to inquire
whether, when a cause is sent back, the defeated party might
or might not make a better case.
It is true that in Iowa the Supreme Court hears equity cases
on appeal de novo, and the successful party is entitled to a
decree in that court, if he moves for it, FirstNatwnal Bank v.
Baker, 60 Iowa, 132; but in the present case no such decree
was applied for or rendered. Nor did the Supreme Court
direct the court below to dismiss plaintiff's petition, or in terms
direct the specific decree to be entered.
And it has been repeatedly -held by that court that when a
case triable de novo is remanded for judgment in the court below, the parties -may be permitted to introduce material evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Oplmon of the Court.

198 U. S.

dence discovered since .th6 original trial, and may amend the
pleadings for the pplrpose of setting up matters materially
affecting the merits, subsequently occurring. Sancey v Iowa
City Glass Company, 68 Iowa, 542; Adams County v. Railroad
Company, 44 Iowa, 335, Shorthill v Ferguson, 47 Iowa, 284,
Jones v Clark, 31 Iowa,. 497. In the latter case, the court
-below, the District Court, refused to .permit amendments,
holding, "as a matter of. law, that when a chancery case has
been appealed to the Supreme"Court, and has been there heard
upon its merits, and is. remanded to the District Court, with
mtructions. as set forth in the procedendo in this cause, the
District Court'has no power to grant' leave to amend." But
the Supreme Court reversed the District Court, and held that
that court might, "at any time, in furtherance of justice, and
on such terms asmay be proper, permit a party to amend any
pleadings or proceedings; Rev ยง 2977"
Doubtless the conclusions arrived at by the state Supreme
Court, and expressed in its opinion, furnish the grounds on
which the court below must proceed, when the case goes to a
decree there, if no change in pleadings or proof takes place,
but we cannpt say what action might nevertheless be taken,
and as no dbcree was entered in. the Supreme Court, and no
specific inst/uction was given to the court below,.we think the
writ of error cafinot be maintained. Assuming, without deciding, that a Federal question was so raised as otherwise tp
have justified the exercise of our jurisdiction, we can but repeat
what we said in Haseltine's case: "The plaintiffs in the case
under consideration could have secured an immediate review
by this'court, if the court as a part of its judgment of reversal
'had ordered the Circuit Court to disminss.their petition, when,
under Mower v Fetche, they might .have sued out a writ of

error at once."'
Writ of error dismssed.

