OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U.S.

sustain the present contention would give judicial sanction to
inexcusable trifling with courts. It is always to be understood
that Federal tribunals are not moot courts, and that parties
having substantial rights must when brought before those
tribunals present those rights or may lose them.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and that
of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

HOLDEN i,STRATTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 209. Submitted April 6, 190.-Decided Bray 8, 1906.
The statute of the State of Washington, Laws of 1897, p. 70, exempting
-proceeds or avails of all life insurance from all liability for any debt,
is not in conflict with the constitution of that State as cohstrued by
its highest court and exempts the proceeds of paid-up policies, and
endowment policies, payable to the assured during his lifetime.
Courts will not read into a broadly expressed state statute of exemption
limitations which do not exist therein because they do exist in similar
statutes of other States or because they deem the limitations equitable.
To do so would not be construction of the statute but legislation; and
the broad terms of the statute show an intention of the legislature of
the State to adopt broader and more comprehensive exemptions than
tho~e adopted by the other States.
Polities of, insurance which are exempt under the law of the State of the
bankrupt are exempt under § 6 of the bankrupt act of 1898, even though
they are endowment policies payable to assured during his lifetime and
have cas.i surrender values, and the provisions of § 70a of the act do not
apply to pblices which are exempt under the state law.
It has always beenthe policy of Congress, both in general legislation and
in bankrupt acts, to recognize and give effect to exemption laws of the
States.

SEPARATE proceedings in bankruptcy were begun in the
District Court of the United States for the District of Washington, Northlern Division, against Daniel N. Holden and

HOLDEN v. STRATTON.
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Lizzie Holden, his wife. They were consolidated. Both the
parties were adjudicated to be bankrupt, and J. A. Stratton
became the trustee of both estates.
All the liabilities of the bankrupts were contracted between
the first day of September and the first day of December, 1900,
and the creditors of each were the same. There were two
policies upon the life of Daniel N. Holden, *onefor $2,000, the
other for $5,000, issued by the same company Both bore
date June 15, 1894, having been issued as the result of an
arrangement by which the insured and his wife as the beneficiary surrendered a policy for $10,000, dated May 21, 1890.
The policy for $2,000 was a full-paid, non-participating one,
and the amount became due only upon the death of the insured, -and was then payable to the wife, or m the event she
did not survive her husband, to his executors, administrators
or assigns. The policy for $5,000 was on what was termed
the sen-tontine plan. An annual premium of $233.80 wasrequired to be paid for ten years from the date of the previous
policy, which :had been surrendered, that is, until May 21,
1900, and therefore at the date when the bankrupts contracted
the debts set forth in their schedules and at the date of the
adjudications in bankruptcy, this period had expired and no
further payment of premiums was necessary Upon the death
of the insured the amount of the policy was to be paid to the
wife .as the beneficiary, or, in the contingency of her prior
decease, to the executors, admmstrators or assigns of the insured. It was provided, however, that upon the completion
of the tontine dividend period of twenty years-on May 21,
1910-if the insured was then alive, he or his assigns, if creditors, might surrender the policy and receive its full cash value,
or a non-participating policy, payable to. the original beneficiary, or if she was not alive, to the executors, administrators
or assigns of the insured, or the option was given to keep the
policy in force and to withdraw the surplus to the credit of the
pplicy in cash, or use the same to purchase additional insurance.
The bankrupts made, application to have these policies set-

OCyTOBER TRM

190t

Argument for Respondent.

198-U. S.

aside to them, because, it wgs asserted, they were exempt by
the law of the State of Washington. This was resisted by the
trustee upon the ground that the policies had a cash surrender
value of $2,200, whiuh it was the duty of the bankrupts to pay
to the trustee as a condition precedent to the exemption of the
policies. The referee sustained the claim of the trustee. His
ruling was reversed by the District Court. On a petition for
revision the- Circuit Court of Appeals held that the bankrupts
were obliged to pay the cash surrender value as asserted by the
trustee. 113 Fed. Rep. 141. An appeal was prosecuted to
this court and was dismissed. 191 U S. 115. This writ of
certigrari was then allowed. 193 U S.672.
..
Mr P P. Carroll and Mir 'John E. Carroll for petitioners:
The abiolute and unqualified rule of exemption as declared
in § 6 of the bankruptcy law is negatived by the proviso in
§70, and the policies are exempt. Steele v Buel, 104 Fed.
Rep. 968, Pulsijer v Hussey, 54 At. Rep. 1076, Lockwood v
Exchange Bank, 190 U S.294. Re Scheld, 104 Fed. Rep. 870
Re Lange, 91 Fed. Rep. 361, do not apply Exemption statutes are to be liberally construed. Packsng Co. v Jeff, 11
Washington, 466, Re Kane, 127 Fed. Rep. 552.
The state law must, mdependently of other authority, control the decision in this case. Re Wilson, 123 Fed. Rep. 20.
For definition of cash surrender value see Pu/sier v Hussey,
supra, and Re Welling, 113 Fed. Rep.'189.
Congress has no power to abrogate state exemptions. Re
Heilbron, 14 Washihgton, 536, Cooley's Const. Lim. .29, 61,
Re Beckerford, 1 Dillon, 45.
Mr Frederck Bausman and Mr Hugh A. Garland for respondent:
Supposing these not to be cash surrender policies they are
property capable of passing to.the trustee. Sectibn 70a, bankrupt act; Page v Edmunds, 187 U S. 596, Fuller v N Y
Fire ins. Co., 184 Massachusetts, 12.
As to whether policies paid up like these, and yet not in-

HOLDEN v. STRATTON.

1M8 US.

'Argument for Respondent.

mediately cash surrender policies, pass to the. trustee, see
In re Slingluff, 106 Fed. Rep. 154, In re Welling, 113 Fed.
Rep. 189; In re Dwck, 100 Fed. Rep. 770; Ladd v Unon Insurawe Company, 116 Fed. Rep. 878, In re Boardman, 103
Fed. .Rep. 783, In re Martens, 131 Fed. Rep. 972; Gould v
N Y Life Ins. Co., 132 Fed. Rep. 927
If the policies are of the cash surrender sort, §70a, which
would hold them for the trustee, does not give -way to the
state exemption clause. Compare In re Welling, 113 Fed.
Rep. 189, with In re Boardman, 103 Fed. Rep. 783.
Supposing the estate exemption clause applicable, the Washington law does not mean that endowment policies are exempt
to the insured debtor in lis own lifetime, and that any kind
of' policy whatever is exempt from the creditors of a beneficiary also.
The law should receive-a sensible construction. Holy Tnnity
Church v United States, 143 U. S. 457, United States v Kirby.
7 Wall. 482; Heydenfeldt v Mining Co., 93 U S. 634, Scott v
Deweese, 181 U S. 202, -affirming 89 Fed. Rep. 843, Lee Kan
v United States, 62 Fed. Rep. 914, Chinese Merchants' Case,
13 Fed. Rep. 605, Lau Ow'Bew v United States, 144 U S. 47
Thirty-five States and Territories have passed laws exemptmg life insurance, of which twenty-four have exempted the
insurance as a fund, not for the insured, but for the beneficiary
When this Washington statute was passed, twenty-four of
these thirty-five statutes did not intend that the insured should
endow himself with life insurance for his own uses while living,
and the same statutes, while making the insurance exempt
to the wife, as against his creditors, made no such provision as
that she might have creditors too and hold the proceeds free.
These statutes are. Arkansas, Sandels and Hills Code, 1894.
§ 4944 Delaware, Code, 1893, ch. 76, § 3, Dist. of Col., Code,
1902, §'1162, Florida, Rev Stat., 1892, § 2347, Hawaii, Civil
Laws, 1897, § 1903, Illinois, 2 S. & C. Ann. Stat., 1896, p. 2259,
ch. 73, § 189; Indian Territory, Stat., 1899, §3023, Maryland, 1 Gen.,Laws, § 5, 8, 9, p. 803 . Michigan, Cozmp. I.a9ws,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Respondent.

198 U. S.

1897, § 8695, Mississippi, Ann. Code, 1892, § 1964, Missouri,
Rev Stat., 1899, § 7895, p. 1842; New Jersey, 2 Gen. Stat.,
1896, p. 2019; New Mexico, Comp. Laws, 1897, § 2042, New
York, Rev Stat., 1 Code and Gen. Laws, "3d ed., Birdseye,
p. 1046, Domestic Relations Law, Art. 3, § 22; Pennsylvania, 1
Pepper & Lewis Dig., 1896, § 91, col. 2383, Ohio, 2 Bates'
Ann. Statutes, 2d ed. §§ 3628, 3629; Oklahoma, 1 Stat., 1903,
p. 795, Rhode Island, Pub. Stat., ch. 166, §21, South Dakota,
Rev Code Civil Pro., 1903, § 347, p. 929; South Carolina, 1
Code, 1902, § 1824, Tennessee, Ann. Code, 1 Grayson, 1895,
§ 2294, Vermont, Stat., 1894, § 2653, West Virginia., Code,
1887, ch. 66, § 456.
Of these *States some further restricted the thing by making such exemption to the beneficiary only when a wife,
others only to a small sum, ,a few hundred dollars, under any
circumstances.
See in comparison the sweeping monstrosity possible under
a liberal interpretation .of the Washington law, "the proceeds
or avails of all life insurance." To the insured while he lives
if he wants to endow himself, ta the insured bankrupt from
others if they choose to endow him, no -limit either, in any
amount.
The other eleven States afford no precedent for this. Five
of them., Connecticut, Rev Stat., 1902, §-4548, Kentucky,
Stat., 1894, § 654, Massachusetts, 2 Rev Laws, 1902, ch. 118,
§ 73, p. 1154, New Hampshire, Pub. Statutes, 1901, ch. 171,
§ 1, Wisconsin, Stat., 1898, §2347, exempt the policy m the
wife's favor only against creditors of the husband, like the
other States, or oft the person paying the premium. North
Carolina and Georgia, are too obscure to be made out upon
this point at all. Alabama, I Code, 1896, § 2607, Iowa, Code,
1897, § 1805, Kansas, Gen. Stat., 1901, §3463, Maine, Rev
Stat.,, 1903, ch. 49, § 106. In Maine the exemption amounts
to only $150. And see Smealey v Felt, 43 Iowa, 607, Murray
v Wells, 53 Iowa, 256.
As life insurance is a fund realizable by death and not by

HOLDEN v. STRATTON.
.198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

any one during his lifetime, the term excludes endowment
policies payable during life of insured. Talcott v Field, 52
N. W Rep. 400.
Mn. JUsT'IcE WITE, after making the foregoing statement,
.delivered the opinion of the court.
The law of the State of Washington upon which the bankrupts relied to sustain the e:emption of the policies was
originally enacted in 1895 (Laws of .Washington,1895, p. 336),
and was reenacted in 1897. Laws of 1897, p. 70. The original
act provided "that the proceeds or avails of all life insurance
shall be exempt from all liability for any debt," and the amendment of 1897 enlarged this act by making it also applicable to
accident insurance.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the policies were -not
exempt, even although embraced by the'state exemption, because of the requirements of section 70 of the bankrupt act of
1898. This was sustained upon the theory that section 6 of
the bankrupt act, adopting the exemption laws of the several
States, was modified, as to'life insurance policies, by a proviso
found in section 70a. In addition, in this court it is -msisted
on behalf of the trustee that, even although the construction
of the bankrupt act adopted by the Circuit Court of Appeals
was a mistaken one, nevertheless the policies were not exempt,
first, 'because the law of Washington making the exemption
was in conflict with the constitution of that State, and, second, because the law, even if valid, did not authorize the
exemption of policies of the character of those here involved.
As section 6 of the bankrupt act gives effect to the exemptions allowed by the state law, it follows that the contentions
that there was no valid state law exempting insurance policies,
or that the exemption here claimed is not embraced within
the state law, -if such law be valid, lie at the twreshold of the
case, and must be disposed of before we come to consider the
true interpretationm of the bankrupt law

OCTOBER TERAM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

To decide thd contentions involves purely state and not
Federal considerations. No decwilon of the Supreme Court of
the State of Washington holding the exemption law to be
invalid because repugnant to the state constitution has been
referred to. On the contrary, in I-n re Heilbron's Estate, 14
Washington, 536, the exemption law in question was considered and upheld by the Supreme Court of Washington. In
that case the cogart maintained the contention that to cause
the provisions of the statute to retrospectively apply to debts
-which had been, contracted prior to the passage of the act
would render the act unconstitutional, both from the point of
view of the Federal as well as the state constitution, and therefore that the law must be construed as having only a prospective operation. All the reasoning, however, of the opinion of
the court by which the conclusion referred to was reached
assumed as a matter of course that the law, if operating prospectively, was not an unconstitutional exercise of power by
the legislature. And it is also worthy of remark that the
amendment including accident insurance was adopted by the
legislature of Washington subsequent to the decision in In re
lIeilbron'sEstate. Of course, as the question of the.repugnancy
of the statute- to the constitution of Washington upon the
-grounds now asserted was not presented in that .case, the
decision cannot be said to be conclusive of the question. But
it has its due-persuasive force.
Considering the contention, however, as an original question,
we think its unsoundness is quite clear. The fallacy which
the proposition embodies consists in presupposing that because
the constitution of .the State of Washington provides that the
legislature "shall protect by law from forced sale a certain
poition of the homestead and other property of all heads of
families," thereby a limitation was imposed upon the general
power of- the legislature to determine the amount and character of property which should be exempt. Two cases are
.referred to as supporting the contention. In re How, 59
Minnesota, 415, Skinner v.. Hot, 9 8: Dak. 427 But those

HOLDEN v. STRATTON.
198 U.S.

-.
209

Opinion of the Court.

cases were based upon constitutional provisions widely different from the one here relied upon. To the contrary, in Califorma, where a constitutional provision obtains identical with.
the one we are considering (const. Cal. article XVII, see. 1),
it has been decided that the character and amount of property
which shall be exempt, from execution is "purely a'question
of legislative policy" Spence v Smith, 121 California, 536.
And it is further to be observed that the legislature
of California has -acted under that assumption, and .has
m effect exempted life insurance policies from execution.
Thus it is provided in the Civil Code of California as follows:
"SEc. 3470. Property exempt.-Property exempt from execution and insurances upon the life of the assignor, do not
pass to the assignee by a general assignment for the benefit
of creditors, unless the instrument specially mentions -them,
and declares asmtention that they should pass thereby En.
March 21, 1872."
Conceding the constitutionality of the statute, it 'is next
insisted that it 'does not embrace an exemption of the avails
of the policies in question. The arguments supporting this
contention are'somewhat involved, but are all embraced in
the following propositions: First, life insurlance, it is said, in
its strictest and technical sense, relates only to a fund realizable
by death, and therefore the words "all.life insurance," in the
Washington statute, must be given that restricted meaning,
hence the statute is inapplicable to one of the policies which
partakes of the nature of an endowment. Second, exemptions
of life insurance policies, it is asserted, do not generally protect the avails of insurance from pursuit by creditors of the
insured, where the proceed of the policies are .payable to his
estate, nor do they protect the avails of insurance from pursuit
by the creditors of the wife of the insured or other beneficiary
The application of these propositions is based upon the fact
that in both of the policies the wife-one of the bankruptswas named as -abeneficiary in- the event of surviving her hus--'OLr..VX&N'II

-lI

OCTOBER -TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

'198 U. S.

band, and in one, of the policies the husband was entitled, if
he survived the. twenty years' period, to surrender the policy
and receive its cash value.
To support the propositions the law of many States, limiting the exemption of the proceeds of.life insurance policies to
the cases specified, are referred to, and the argument is that,
because in such States: there 4re such statutes, a similar limitation should be read -by consruction into the Washington
statute. But the error in the argument is manifest. It.is
not to be doubted that the broad terms of the statute, as
ordinarily understood, embraced .both of the policies, and it
would not be construction but legislation to restrict the meaning of the statute in accord with narrower legislation in other
States, because in the judgment of a court it might be deemed
equitable to do so. The wide departure from the legislation
of many of the other States, shown by the unrestricted terms
of the Washington statute, instead of manifesting the intention of the legislature of that State to narrow the exemption
to conform to the statutes of other States, on the contrary
conclusively shows the Intention of the Washington legislature
to adopt a broader and more comprehensive exemption. And
light upon the intention to give a broad and popular meaning
to the term life insurance is shown by the amendment exemptmg the avails of accident policies, which ordinarily, in the event
death does not result, is payable to the insured. And it may
also be observed in this connection that the policies considered
by the Supreme Court of Washington in In re Heilbron's
Estate, supra, were payable on the death of the insured to his
executors, and no intimation was given in tije opinion that
policies of that character were not within the terms of the
exempting statute.
The policies then being exempt by tne state law, we are
brought to consider the question whether they were exempt
under the.'bankrupt act of 1898.
As we have said, section 6 of the act adopts, for the purposes
of the bankruptcy proceedings, the-exemptions allowed by the

HOLDEN v. STRATTON.
198 U. S.

Opunon of the Court.

laws of the several States. The language so providing is as
follows:
"SEc. 6. Exemptions of Bankrupt.-a:. This act shall not
affect the allowance to bankrupts of the exemptions which are
prescribed by the state laws in force at the time of the filing.
of the petition in the State wherein they have had their domicile for the six months or the greater portion thereof inmediately preceding the filing of the petition."
It is beyond controversy that if the section just quoted
stood alone the policies in question would be exempt under
the bankrupt- act. The contention that they are not arises
from what is assumed to be a limitation inposed upon the
terms of section 6 by a proviso found in section 70a of. the act.
We quote that section in full, italicismg the provision which
it is deemed operates to take the proceeds or avails of policies
of insurance out of the control of section'6.
"The trustee of the estate of a bankrupt, upon his appointment and qualification, and his successor or successors, if he
shall have one or more, upon his or their appointment and
qualification, shall in turn be vested by operation of law with
the title. of the bankrupt, as of the date he was adjudged a
bankrupt, except in so far as it is to property which is exempt,
to all (1) documents relating to his. property; (2) interest in
patents, patent rights, copyrights, and trademarks; (3) powers
which he might have exercised for his own benefit, but not
those which he might have exercised for some other person,
(4) property transferred by him in traud of his creditors;.
(5) property which prior to the filing of the petition. he could
by any means .have transferred or which might have been
levied upon and sold under judicial process against him.
Provided, That when any bankrupt shall have any tnsuronce
policy whwh has a cash surrender value payable to himself, Ais:
estate, or personal representatives, he may, within thirty days.,
after the cash surrender value has been ascertainedand stated to
the trustee by the company ssumg the same pay or secure to the
trustee the sum so ascertasned and stated, and continue to hold,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

198 U. S.

own, and carry such policy free from the claims of the creditors
partwpattng sn the distributwun of hs estate under the bankruptcy proceedings, otherunse the policy shall pass to the trustee
as assets; and (6) rights of action arising upon contracts or
from the unlawful taking or detention of, or injury to, his
property"
Conflicting views as to the operation upon section 6 of the
proviso in section 70a referred to have been expounded by the
Circuit Courts of* Appeal. Two.of the leading cases are Steele
v Buel, 104 Fed. Rep. 968, holding that the proviso does not
qualify the exemptions accorded by section 6, and the other
decision by the Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit, in
In re Scheld, 104 Fed. Rep. 870, holding that the effect of
the proviso was to limit, as to policies of insurance, the
broad terms of section 6, adopting the state exemption
laws.
Considering the matter originally, it is we think apparent
that section 6 is couched in unlimited terms, and is accompanied with no qualification whatever. Even a superficial
analysis of section 70a demonstrates that that section deals
not with exemptions, but solely with the'nature and character of property, title to which passes to the trustee in bankruptcy The opening clause of the section declares that the
trustee after his appointment shall be vested "by operation
except in so
of law with the title of the bankrupt,
far as it is to property which is exempt," and this isfollowed
by an enumeration under six headings, of the various classes of
property which pass to the trustee. Clearly, the words "except in so far as it is to property which is -exempt," make
manifest that it was the intention to exclude from the enumeration property exempt by the act. This qualification necessarily controls all the enumerations, and, therefore, excludes
exempt prperty from all the provisions contained in the
respective enumerations. The meaning now sought to be
given to the proviso cannot in reason be affixed to it withodt
holding that the words "except in so far as it is to property

HOLDEN v. STRATTON.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which is exempt," do not control and limit the proviso. But
to say this is to read out of the section the dominant limitation
which it contains, and, therefore, to segregate the proviso
from its context and cause it to mean exactly the reverse of
what, when read m connection with the context, it necessarily
implies.
It is, however, argued that unless the proviso be given the'
import attributed to it, and be treated as not subject to the
limitation implied by the words creating the exception as to
exempt property, that it becomes meaningless, and hence,
under the rule of construction which commands that effect
must be given if possible to all parts of a statute, the proviso
must be' construed as wholly disconnected from the clause as
to exempt property The premise upon hich this proposition rests is a mistaken one. As section 70a deals only with
property which, not being exempt, passes to the trustee, the
mission of the proviso was, in the interest of the perpetuation
of policies of life insurance, to provide a rule Ly which, where
such policies passed to the trustee because they were not
exempt, if they had a surrender value their future operation
coild be preserved by vesting the bankrupt with the privilege
of paying such surrender value, whereby the policy would be
witadrawn out of the category of an asset of the estate. That
is to say, the purpose of the proviso was to confer a benefit
upon the insured.bankrupt by limiting the character of the
lntereot in a non-exempt life insurance policy which should
pass to the trustee, and not to cause such a policy when
exempt to become-an asset of the estate. When the purpose
of the proviso is thus ascertained it becomes apparent that
to maintain the construction which the argument seeks to
affix to the proviso, would cause it to produce a result diametrically opposed to its spirit and to the purpose it was intended
to subserve.
And the meaning which we deduce from the text and context of the proviso is greatly fortified by obvious considerations of public policy It has always been the policy of Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

gress, both in general legislation and in bankrupt acts, to
recognize and give effect to the state exemption laws. This
was cogently pointed out by Circuit Judge Caldwell, in delivering the opinion in Steele v Buel, where he said (104 Fed.
Rep. 972)
"From the organization of the Federal courts under the
judiciary act of 1789i the law has been that creditors suing in
these courts could not subject to execution property of their
debtor exempt to hun by the law of the State. Judiciary act
of 1789, 1 Stat. 93, c. 21, Wayman v. Southard, 10-Wheat. 1,
32, 6 L. ed. 253, Lamaster v Keeler, 123 U S.376, S. C.,
8 Sup. Ct. 197, 31 L. ed. 238, Dartmouth Say. Bank v
The same rule has
.
Bates (C. C.), 44 Fed. Rep. 546.
obtained under the bankrupt acts, which have sometimes
increased the exemptions, notably so under the act of 1867
(section 5045, Rev Stat.) but have never lessened or dimmished them. An intention on'the part of Congress to violate
or abolish thiswise and uniform rule observed from the creation
of our Federal system should be made to appear by clear and
unmistakable language. It will not be presumed from a
doubtful or ambiguous provision fairly susceptible of any other
construction."
There has beeil some contrariety of opinon expressed by
the'lower Federal courts as to the exact meaning of the words
cash surrender value as employed in the proviso, some courts
holding that it means a surrender value expressly stipulated
by the contract of insurance to be paid, and other courts holdmg.that the words embrace policies, even though a stipulation
in respect to surrender value is not contained therein, where
the policy possesses a cash value which would be recognized
and paid by the insurer on the surrender, of the policy It is
to be observed that this latter construction harmonizes with
the practice under the bankrupt act of 1867, In re Newland,
GBen. 342; In re MeKinney, 15 Fed. Rep. 535, and tends to
elucidate and carry okit the purpose contemplated by the proviso as we have construed it. However, whatever influence

HARRIS v. BALK.
198 U. S.

Syllabus.

that construction may have, as the question. is not necessarily
here involved, we do not e pressly decide it.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeal s reversed,.and
that of the Distrct Court affirmed, cause remanded to the
latter court.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA took no part in the decision of this
cause.

HARRIS v. BALK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 191. Argued April 4,195.W-Deoided May 9, 1905.
A citizen of North Carolina who owed money to another citizen of that
State, was, while temporarily in Maryland, garnisheed by a creditor of the
man to whom he owed the money Judgment was duly entered according to Maryland practice and paid. Thereafter the garnishee was sued
m North Carolina by the original creditor and set up the garnishee judgment and payment, but the North Carolina courts held that as the situs
of the debt was m North Carolina the Maryland judgment was not a
bar and awarded judgment against him. Held, error and that:
As under the laws of Maryland the garnishee could have been sued by his
creditor in the courts of that State he was subject to garnishee process
if found and served in the State even though only there temporarily, no
matter where the situs of the debt was originally.
Attachment is the creature of the local law, and power over the person of
the garnishee confers jurisdiction on the courts of the State where the
writ issues. A judgment against a garnishee, properly obtained according to the law of the State, and paid, must under the full faith and
credit clause of the Federal Constitution, be recognized as a payment of
the original debt, by the courts of another State, in an action brought
against the garmshee' by the original creditor.
Where there is absolutely no defense and the plaintiff is entitled to recover,
there is no reason why the garnishee should not consent to a judgment
impounding the debt, and his doing so does not amount to such a voluntary payment that he is not protected thereby under the full faith
and credit clause of the Constitution.
While it
...c ujJ., of the courts to prevent the payment oD any debt

