OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

198 U. S.

siderations we have given due attention, but we do not think
they demand or would justify a change of our ruling.
It follows, therefore, that the judgments should be and
they are hereby reversed, and the causes remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent -with this opinion.

The CHIEF JUSTICE,
HAM

MR. JUSTICE WHIrE, MR.. JUSTICE PECKand MR. JUSTICE HOLMES dissent.

SAVANNAH,

THUNDERBOLT AND ISLE OF HOPE
RAILWAY v. SAVANNAH.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 238. Argued April 28,1905.-Decided Iay 15,1905.
There is no foundation for the jurisdiction of'this court to review the judgment of the highest court of a State refusing to.restrain the collection
of a tax the imposition of which is not authorized by any law of the State.
Barney v. City of New York, 193 U. S. 430.
A classification which distinguishes 'between an ordinary street railway,
and a steam railroad, making an extra charge for local deliveries of
freight brought over its road from outside the city, held, under the facts
of this case, not to be such a classification as to make the tax void under
the Fourteenth Amendment because it denies the street railway" the
equal protection of the law, or deprives it of its property without due
process of law.
Where none of the expressions m a contract between a street railway company and. the mumcijpality m regard to the extension of company's
tracks for the better advantage of, and affording more facilities to, the
public, import any exemption from taxation, the subsequent imposition
of a tax, otherwise valid, is not invalid under the impairment of obligation clause of the Constitution.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr Davwi C.. Barrow, with whom Mr. George A. King was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error"
This tax is imposed on the plaintiff in error because it does
business in the city of Savannah, and for the use of the streets

SAVANNAH, THUNDERBOLT &c. RY.. v. SAVANNAH. 398
198 U. S.

Argument for Plaihtiff m Error.

of the city in doing it. The railway is both within the city
limits and outside of the city. The Central of Georgia Railway Company, a steam railroad, is engaged in business within
the limits of the city, usig a total of five miles of the streets.
Its lines also extend outside of the city of Savannah. The
business carried on by the plaintiff in error and the business
carned on by the Central of Ga. R. R.. Co. are both local,
from one point within the city limits to another point within
the city limits. The only differences between the two are that
plaintiff .in error operates by electricity and in the business
done in the city of Savannah transports freight and passengers
while the Central of Ga. R. R. Co. operates by steam and in
the business done in the city of Savannah transports freight.
The difference between these two corporations. is not sufficient to justify a classification which puts the electric railway
in one class and imposes a burden on it of $100 per mile per
annum and puts the commercial railway in a separate class
and exempts it from any tax. This court recognizes the
definition of the class as contained in the taxing act and the
classification must be justified under such definition. Magoun
v Ill. Trust & Sawngs Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 296, Pacific Express Co. v Seibert, 142 U. S. 339.
In order to sustain a classification based not upon the kind
of business carried on, but upon the special privileges granted,
the enjoyment of the privileges places the person taxed in a
separate and distinct class by.reason of such privilege. The
taxing power can not. base its classification on -the privilege
granted and impose a burden therefor without going further
and seeing to it that no one is omitted from the burden, whatever their business may be or they may be called, who enjoy
the same privileges. Gulf, Colorado & Santa F6 Ry. v Ellis,
165 U. S. 150, 157, Merchants" Bank v Pennsyltania, 167

U. S. 461, 465.
In this case the city has failed to treat all persons alike
under like circumstances and conditions, both in the privileges
conferred and the liabilities inposed. Hayes v Missourn, 120

394 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

198 U. S.

U. S. 68, 71, Soon Hung v Crowley, 113 U.S. 703, 709; Billings
v Illinois, 188 U. S. 97
This court has recognized the principle .that in determ'nmg
whether or not corporations belonged to the same class it is
necessary to consider whether they are held by the taxing
power as eqully responsible and liable in other matters relatrng to their.business. Missour Pacific Ry. Co. v Mackey,
127 U.' S. 205, 210; Minn.. & St. Louis Ry. v Beckwith, 129
U. S. 26, 29.
The prohibition of the Constitution against the impairment
of the obligations of contracts applies to implied- as well as
express contracts. Fisk v Jefferson Police Judge, 116 U. S.
131 , Construction Co. .v Fitzgerald, 137 U. S.. 98, 112.
The whole contract must be brought into view and' interpreted withreference to the nature of the obligations between
'the, parties .and the mtentions they have manifested in forming them. ' O'Bren y Miller, 168 U S4 287, 297, Goddard.v
Foster, 17 Wall. 123, 142; Black v United States, 91 U. S. 267
Where the court from all the circumstances surrounding
the contract and the consideration and acts of the parties
implies certain stipulations it does not thereby vary the contract or introduce new terms into it,. but declares that certain
acts unexplained by the compact impose certain duties and
that the parties had stipulated for their performance. Ogden
v Saunders, 12 Wheaton, 341, 342.
The cit , having accepted the benefits under the contract
with the plaintiff in error, this ordinance imposing a tax
for the-privilege of using those streets named in the contract,
impairs the obligations of the same. Chwago v Sheldon, 9
Wall. 50; St. Lous v West. Union Tel. Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 68;
Iron Mountain R. Co. v Memphis, 96 Fed. Rep. 113, Mercantile Trust Co. v.. Collins Park & B. R. Co., 101 Fed. Rep. 347
An ordinance of a city council providing foran extension
of the tracks of a street railway and fixing the rate of fare
constitutes a ontract which is impaired in violation of the.
Constitution of the United'States by a subsequent ordinance

SAVANNAH, THUNDERBOLT &c. .RY v. SAVANNAH. 396
198 U.S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

which undertakes to reduce the rate of fare. Detroit v Street
Railway Company, 184 U. S. 368, Cleveland v Railway Company, 194 U S. 517
This ordinance being void on this ground m so far as it
relates to a part of the route, the entire ordinance is void as
it is impossible to separate the illegal portion- of the tax from
the legal portion-admitting for the sake of argument that
it is otherwise legal.
Where a tax assessment includes property not legally assessable and the part of the tax assessed upon the latter property
can not.be separated from the other part, the entire tax assessment is invalid. Santa Clara v So. Pac. R.R., 118 U. S. 394,
415, Californiav Pacific R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1, 29, 45, Central
Pacific R. R. v Calijornia,162 U. S. 163.
Mr William Garrard for defendants in errorThe ordinance is valid under the local law, and the classification is proper. Savannah v Weed, 84 Georgia, 683, Savannah
v Crawford, 75 Georgia, 35, Goodwin v Savannah, 53 Georgia,
410. It is a business tax and not a tax on property Home
Ins. Co. v Augusta, 50 Georgia, 530; Loan Assn. v Stewart,
109 Georgia, 80; Weaver v Georgia, 89 Georgia, 642; Davis
v Macon, 64 Georgia, 128.
The contract for extension contained no exemption from
taxes and if it did the mnicipality.had no power to make the
exemption. Factory v Augusta, 83 -Georgia, 734, Savannah
v Crawford, 75 Georgia, 35, Wells v Savannah, 107 Georgia,
2; S.C., 181 U S. 539; Railway Co. v New Orleans, 143 U S.
192.
The Constitution of the United States does not profess in
all cases to protect property from unjust taxation by th(
States. That is a matter for state protection. Los Angel&
v So. Pac. Ry. Co., 64 California, 433, Wyandotte v Corrigan,
10 Pac. Rep. 99; Railroad Co. v Columbia, 32 S.E. Rep.
408, Dillon, Mun. Corp., 4th ed., ยง 789; Denver v Street Railway, 29 L. R. A. 610. If the tax is not authorized by a state

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

law there is no Federal question. Hamilton v. Hamilton, 146
U. S. 258, 266, Barney v City of New York, 193 U S. 430;
W U Tel. Co. v.. Ann Arbor R. R. Co., 178 U S.239; Savannah
v Hoist, 132 Fed. Rep. 901, Watson v Nevmn, 128 U S. 582,
Mobile v Kimball, 102 U S. 691.
MR. JusTIcF. HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill m equity brought by the plaintiff in error to
restrain the collection of a municipal tax by the defendants.
The bill sets forth, among other grounds, that the tax impairs
the obligation of a contract, and also is an attempt to take
the plaintiff's property without due*process of law, contrary
to the Constitution of the United States. According-to the
no law of the
bill and the fifth assignment of error there 'is
State of Georgia which authorizes the imposition of the tax.
Were this true the foundation of oM 3unsdiction would be
gone and this writ of error should be dismissed. See Barney
v City of New York, 193 U S.430. But although the llamtiff has taken inconsistent positions and"has confused ques-tions for the state court alone with those which may.be brought
here, still, since it has shown: a clear intent to raise the Fed6ral
question from the beginning, since the bill m another place
alleges that the tax is an authority exercised under the State
of Georgia and other assignments of error present the points,
and since the state court has decided that the tax was au"thorized, we shall not stop the case at the outset. See Hamilton Gas Ltght & Coke Co. v Hamilton, 146 U S.258.
The tax is imposed under an ordinance of March 22, 1899,
providing by way of .amendment to one of the, year before,.
that "street railroad companies, whether under .the control
of another company or not, in lieu of the specific tax leretofore required, shall pay to the city of Savannah for the privilege
of doing business in.the city and for the use of the streets of
the city, at the rate of $100 per mile or fraction of a mile of
'track used in the city of Savannah by said railroad.company."
The plaintiff is a street railroad company, commonly. known as

SAVANNAH, THUNDERBOLT &c. RY. v. SAVANNAH. 397
198 U. S.

Oplmon of the Court.

such, md the great part of its business and revenue is -due to
the use of the streets of Savannah by its electric passenger
street cars. One of its grounds of attack is that the Central
of Georgia Railway Company, a steam railway, is hoL stibjected to the tax, and yet that it also does business m the
streets of the city by transporting freights from its regular
station to various side tracks, and charges an additional or
local price. The plaintiff contends that a classification which
distinguishes between an ordinary street railway and a steam
railroad making an extra charge for local deliveries of freight
brought over its road from outside the city, is contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment and void.
The other gound on which the validity of the tax is denied
is a contract made between the plaintiff and respondent on
November 4, 1897, amended in April, 1898, and on July 27,
1898. It is contended that this contract implies that the
plaintiff ia to have the use of the streets'without further
charges than those which it imposes.
The trial court refused a preliminary injunction, and its
decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court, 112 Georgia, 164,
which decided that this was a business tax, lawfully inposed,
and that the.plamtiff did not stand like the Central of Georgia
Railway, which, as was held in Citj Council of Augusta v.
Central Railroad, 78 Georgia, 119, is subject to taxation by
the State alone. On final hearing a verdict was directed for the
defendant, and a decree was entered making the same the
decree of the court. This also was affirmed by the Supreme
Court. 115 Georgia, 137 The case then was brought here.
The merits of the case are pretty nearly disposed of by the
statement. The argument on the first point is really a somewhat disguised attempt to go behind the decision of the state
court that the tax ii a tax on business, and to make out that
it is a charge for the privilege of using the streets. We see
no ground on which we should criticise or refuse to be bound
by the local adjudication. The difference between the two
railroads is obvious, and warrants the diversity in the.mode

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

of taxation. The Central of Georgia Railway may be assined to do .the great and -characteristic part of its work outside the city, while the plaintiff does its work within the city
If the former escapes city taxation it does so only because.
its- maii business is not m the.:city and the State reserves it
for itself.
As to the contraet, if the city had attempted to-bargain
away its right, to tax, probably it would have been acting
beyond its power. Augusta Factory v City Council of Augusta,
83 Georgia, 734, 743. However, it made no such attempt.
It is enough tb say that it uses no. language to that effect, or
words which even indirectly inply that exemption for the
future was contemplated. Wells v Savannah, 181 U S. 531,
539, 540; S. "C., 107" Georgia, 1, New Orleans City & Lake
Railroad v Mew Orleans, 143 U. S.192. But we will go a little
more into detail.
The contract was made on a petition of the plaintiff -tating
its desire to make changes in its lines of track "for the purpose
of operating its railroad more economically and to better advantage and at the same time affording nore adequate facilities
to the public." Variouschanges were agreed on in the way
of moving old trAcks and laying 'down new _nes. Among other
particulars the railroad agreed to convey or cause to be conveyed 'certain lands in B'olton Street and Whitaker Street,
"preserving of course the easement of the said street railway
company over said land, for its railway purposes." In the
last amendment to the contract an extension is agreed to,
"and the right to lay dowfi, construct,. maintain and operate
said railway through said streets as before stated is granted
subject to the control and regulation of the said mayor and
aldermen, the same as other lines of railway as provided in said
-contract of November 4th, 1897 " It is said that these phrases
exempt at least so much of the road as they cover, and that
therefore the tax is void as a whole, because it does not appear what proportion of. it is attributable to unexempted
portions.

CIMIOTTI UNHAIRING CO. v. AA.
198 U. S.

FUR REF CO, 399

Statement of the Case.

This kind of argument seems to assume that the tax is a
tax on the right to use the streets and not a tax on the business. But a sufficient answer is that none of the expressions
quoted import any exemption from taxation whatever, if it

was within the power of the city to grant it. See New Orleans
City & Lake Railroad v- New Orleans, 143 U S. 192.

We

are of opinion that the plaintiff's case fails on every ground.
Decree affirmed.

CIMIOTTI UNHAItING COMPANY v. AMERICAN FUR
REFINING COMPANY
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 192. Argued March 17, 1905.-Decided May 15, 1905.

A greater degree of liberality and a wider range of equivalents are permitted where the patent is of a pioneer character than when the invention is simplyan inprovement,,although the last and successfulstep, in the
art theretofore partially developed by other inventors in the same field.
The patent involved m this case for the unhainng of seal and other skins,
while entitled to protection as a valuable invention, cannot be said to be
a pioneer patent.
In making his claim the inventor is at liberty to choose his own form of
expression and, while the courts may construe the same in view of the
specifications and the state of the art, it may not add to or detract
from the claim.
As the inventor is required to enumerate the elements of lhs claim no one
is the infringer of a combination claim unless he uses all the elements
thereof.
Where the patent does not embody a primary invention but only an imo
provement on the prior art the charge of infringement is not sustained
if defendant's machines can be differentiated.

THis action was begun in the Circuit Court of the United.
States for the District of New Jersey for the purpose of enjoin-

ing .the-alleged infringement of certain letters patent of the
United States, issued to John W Sutton, and bearing date of
May 22, 1888, number 383,258, for a certain new and useful
invention. or improvement upon machines for plucking furs.

