UNITED STATES v. WINANS.
198 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

UNITED STATES v. WINANS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT.COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 180. Argued April 3, 4, 190.-Decided May 15, 1905.
This court will construe a treaty with Indians as they understood it an'd
as justice and reason demand.
The nght of taking fish at all usual and accustomed places m common with
the bitizensd.of the Territory of Washington and the right of erecting
temporary buildings for curing them, -reserved to the Yakima Indians
m the treaty of 1859, was not agrant of right to the Indians but a reservation by the Indians of rights already possessed and not granted away by
them. The rights so reserved imposed a servitude on the entire land relinquished to the United States under the treaty and which, as was mteilded
to be, was continuing against the United States and its grantees as well
as against the State and its grantees.
The United States has power to create rights-appropriat to the object for
which it holds territory while preparing the way for future States to be
carved therefrom and admitted to the Union, securing the right to the
Indians to fish is appropriate to such object, and after its admission to
the Union the State cannot disregard the right so secured on the ground of
its equal footing with the original States.
Patents granted by the United States for lands in Washington along the
Columbia River and by the State for lands under the water thereof and
rights given by the State to use fishing wheels are subject to such reasonable regulations as will secure to the Yakima Indians the fishery nghts
reserved by the treaty of 1859.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
The fishery involved is and always has been a famous one.
It is a "usual and accustomed place" and one of the best, if not
the best place, on the Columbia River. The Yakima Indians
have resorted to it above all others and depended on it fpr
the supply of fish winch was their steady subsistence. The
treaty was negotiated with distinct recognition of this right.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the UniteA States.

198 U. S.

The Indians objected to the transfer of their lands until assured by the Government as to the fishery rights.
Fish wheels are very destructive. They catch salmon by
the ton, are not only rapidly diminishing the supply but will
soon totally destroy it. But whether or not the wheels are
unjustifiable per se and should be removed on the Indian's
complaint, their grievance is greater; they are not allowed to
fish at all. They do not claim exclusive rights, but rights in
common with citizens. The defendants claim exclusive rights,
and that if the Indians can fish at all, they milst do 8o at other
points along this stretch as these lands have been patented,
and are owned by the defendants. The Indians cannot cross
the lands to reach the fishery and are with6ut any right whatever except what the defendants allow as a matter of grace.
They are allowed no real rights.
The Government has always striven against disparity between our promises when obtaining treaties and the actual
meaning of the instrument as it is sought to be construed
when the greed of white settlers is aroused. The treaty involved was not merely one of peace and amity, or of "friendship, limits and accommodation," but a treaty of cession of
lands by accurate description and on considerations duly expressed, one of which was the fishery rights, now contended
for.
As to the spirit in which Indian treaties should be construed' see Worcester v Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, 581, .Fletcher v.
Peck, 6 Cr. 87, Johnson v McIntoshi 8 Wheat. 543, Cherokee
Nat-on v Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, United States v Cook, 19 Wall.
591, Choctaw Nation v United States, 119AU S. 1.
Defendants' title rests on patents and on contracts with
the State of Washington. Before they acquired title they
knew of the Indian claims. There was always notice and
actual knowledge by reason of the treaty provisions, by reason
of the notorious Indian use of this fishery The patents never
gave absolute title, and the fee was always conditional. The
treaty gave the right. Congress has never divested the Indians

UNITED STATES v. WINANS.
198 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

of the right. An executive officer mistakenly issuing a patent
without proper reservations under such circumstances cannot
thus divest valid vested rights.
This is an old controversy, and has been fully adjudicated.
in favor of the Indians by the7 Washington courts. United
Staes v Taylor, 3 Wash.,Ty 88. And~this adjudication ha
been recognized by the Federal courts. UnitedStates v Taylor,
44 Fed. Rep. 2. Alaska Packers'Assn. case,,7Q Fed. Rep. 152,
was against us -on the ground that the private title and the
operation of fish traps under state licenses necessarily confer
exclusive rights. . The James G. Swan, 50 Fed. Rep. 108,
distinguished. We are not seeking to unpress a broad and.
vague servitude on all patented lands along the Columbia,
but only a clear and limited one on this particular small
tract. Under English and American rules exclusive rights to
fisheries are not favored. 2 B1. Com. 39, 40, 417 et sdq., Weston
v Sampson, 8 Cush. 346, 352, Carson v Blazer, 2 Bin. 475,
Yard v Carman, 2 Pen. (N. J.) 681, 686, Melvin v Whiting,
7 Pick. 79; 1 Pingrey on Real Property, 107, 108, Washburn
on Easements and Servitudes, 533, Shrunk v Schuylkill Namgatibn Co., 14 S. & R. 71, Bickel v Polk, 5 Harr. (Del.) 325;
Hogg v Beerman, 41 Ohio St. 81, Sloan v Bwzmiller, 34 Ohio
St. 492. So far As the right may be exclusive, belonging to
the riparian owner (in non-navigable waters), the State may
restrain and regulate. Waters v Lilley, 4 Pick. 145, Commonwealth v Chapm, 5 Pick. 199. In either aspect, viz.:
of a common rght or one incident to dominion of the soil,
the Indian claim here is good, because it was shared with
citizens and was recognized by the Government in respect
to its public dominion and title long before the private grants
by patent were made. The States control navigable waters,
including the soil under them and the fisheries within their
limits, subject only to the rights of the General Government
under the Constitution in the regulation of commerce. Smith
v Maryland, 18 How 71, Manchester v Massachusetts, 139
U. S. 240; Shively v Bowlby, 152 U S. 1, Martin v Waddell,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

198 U. S.

16 Pet. 367; McCready v Virginu, 94 U. S. 391. Eisenbach
v Hatfield, 2 Washington, 236, shows how the courts of the
State of Washington construe the scope of state control.
But nevertheless 'the state power here is subject to fundamental limitation, viz.. the organim acts affecting Washington
as a Territory and a State. Act pf Aigust 14; 1848, 9 Stat.
323, act of March 2, 1853, 10 Stat, 172, act of February 2,
1889, 25 Stat. 676, and the constitution of the State of Washmgton, Arts. XVII, XXVI, taken together and construed in
the light of the principle established in Shively v Bowiby,
supra, mean that the state right and claim to control, as by
the sale of shore lends and the issue of licenses for fish wheels,
are subject to all rights granted or reserved when the Federal
power was m full control, during the territorial status. This
doctrine embraces the grant o reservation to the Indians of
these fishery rights assured by the United States under treaty
stipulations, soon after that region passed from the Indian
country sta'tus into the territorial condition and long before
it became a State.
The Indian clai is not merely meritorious and equitable;
it is an immemorial right like a ripened prescription. Barker
v Harvey, 181 U. S. 481,. distinguished1. A mistake ih fact
was made in issumg the patents, but the .gound of equitable
intervention is not technically that of mistake or fraud, nor
does the Government endeavor, contrary to statutory limitations, to vacate and annul patents, e. g., act of March 3, 1891
26 Stat. 1093, to set aside and cancel .a patent on the ground
of. mistake or fraud. The court will recognize the justice of
the Indian claim and, declare and establish by its- equity
powers the trust for the Indians which at all times has been
an essential ingredient of private title to these lands. -A patent does not invariably and inevitably convey an absolute
title beyond all inquiry and free of every condition. Eldridge
,v'Trezwant, 160 U S.452. See also Ruch v New Orleans, 43
La. Ann. 275; Barney v Keokuk, 94 U S.324, Packer v Bird,
137 U. SL 372 .-$htvely v. Bowlby, 152 U S.1.

UNITED STATES v. WINANS.
198 U. S.

Argument for Respondents.

Ward v Race Horse, 163 U. S. 504, recognized, as if it foresaw this case, the doctrine for which we are contending.
A decree for appellants must consider the reasonable rights
of both parties; restricting the fish wheels if they can be maintamed at all, as to their number, method and daily hours of
operation. Nor can the Indians clan an exclusive right, and'
it maybe. just to restrict them in reasonable ways as to times,
and modes of access to the property and their hours for fishing.
But. by some proper route, following the old trails, and at
proper. hours, with due protection for the defendants' buildings, stock and crops, free ingress to and egress from the
fishing grounds should be open to the Indians, and be kept
.open.
Mr Charles H. Carey, with whom Mr, Franklin P Mays
was on the brief, for respondents:
Upon the acquisition of the original Oregon Territory now
including Oregon, Washington, and parts of other States, the
United States became invested with the fee of all the lands
and waters included therein. The "Indian title" as against
the United Staies was merely a right to perpetual occupancy
of the land, with the privilege of using it as the Indians saw fit,
until such right of occupancy had been surrendered to the
Government; and the Indian title to the reservations was of
no higher character. United States v Alaska.Packers' Assn.,
79 Fed. Rep. 157, Spalding v Chandler, 160 U S.394, 407
The Indian title, even to the lands-included in their reservation, is subject to the paramount control and power.,of Congress in the enactment of laws for the sale and disposal of the
public lands. Cases supra and Missourn, K. & T Ry. Co. v.
Roberts, 152 U S.114.
Under the treaty of 1859, the Indians neither reserved nor
did they acquire a title by occupanc r to the lands bordering
their usual and customary fishing grounds. They acquired
merely an executory license or privilege, applying to no certain and defined places, and revocable atwill of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Respondents.

198 U. S.

States,. to fish, hunt, and build temporary houses upon public
lands, m common with white citizens, upon whom the law
has conferred no title by occupancy whatever. Cases supra
and Ward v Race Horse, 163 U. S. 504.
The treaty of 1859 imposed no restraint upon the power of
the United States to sell the lands m controversy, and such a
sale under the settled policy of the Government, was a result
naturally to come from the advance of the white settlements
along the river, and it cannot be assumed that the Government intended by general expressions in the treaty to tie up
the development of the fishing industry through a long stretch
of- the waters of the Columbia.
The grant of the lands bordering the Columbia River at such
fishing places deprived the white citizens of all rights to go
over, across, or upon them for the purpose of fishing or erecting buildings or other purposes, and the Indian rights being
of-no higher nature were likewise revoked and extinguished.
Cases supra and The James G. Swan, 50 Fed. Rep. 108.
Upon the admission of the State of Washington into the
Federal Union, "upon an equal footing with the original
States," she became possessed, as an mseparabl& incident to
her dominion and sovereignty, of all the rights as to sale of
the shore lands on navigable rivers, and the regulation and
control of fishing therein, that belonged to the original States.
The title to the shore and lands under water is. incidental
to the sovereigntyof a State,-a portion of the royalties belonging thereto,-and held m trust for the public purposes of
navigation and fishery, and cannot be retained or granted
out to mdividuals by the United States; and it depends upon
-the law of such State to determine to what extent *theState
has 'prerogatives of ownership. Control and regulation shall
be exercised subject only to the paramount authority of Congress with regard to public navigation and commerce. Hardin
v Jordan,140 U S. 371, Shtvely v Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1.
Evidence of Indians present at the time of the execution of
the treaty between the representatives of the United -States

UNITED STATES v. WINANS.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Government and the federated bands of Indians known as the
Yakuna Nation m 1855 is incompetent and inadmissible when
such evidence would tend, to vary the -plam stipulations of the
treaty Anderson v Leuns, 1 Freem. Ch. (Miss.) 178, Little v.
Wilson, 32 Maine, 214.
Where rights of fishing and hunting on the then vacant
public lands of the United States were reserved to the whites
and Indians "in common," both whites and Indians could
use such implements. and methods of fishing and hunting in
the exercise of their common rights as they saw fit, and the
use of fish wheels by the whites in the customary runways of
the fish which did not exclude the Indians from fishing elsewhere, would not deprive the Indians of their common right.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought to en om the, respondents from obstructing certain Indians of the Yakuna Nation in the State
of Washington from exercising fishing rights and privileges on
the Columbia River in that State, clained under the provisions
of the treaty between the United States and the Indians, made
in 1859.
There is no substantial dispute of facts, or none that is
important to our inquiry
The treaty is as follows:
"Article I. The aforesaid confederated tribes and bands of
Indians hereby cede, relinqish, and convey to the United
States all their right, title, and interest m and to the lands and
country occupied and -clauned by them.
"Article II. There is, however, reserved from the lands
above ceded for the use and occupation of the aforesaid confederated tribes and bands of Indians, the tract of land included within the following boundaries:
"All of which tract shall be set apart, and, so far as necessary, surveyed and marked out, for the exclusive use and
benefit of said confederated tribes and bands of Indians as an
Indian reservation, nor shall any white man, excepting those

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

198 U. S.

m the employment of the Indian Department, be permitted
to reside upon the said reservation without permission of the
tribe and the superintendent and agent. And the said confederated tribes and bands agree to remove to, and settle upon,
the same, within one year after the ratification of this treaty
In the meantime it shall be lawful for them to reside upon any
ground not m the actual claim and occupation of citizens of
the United States; and upon any ground claimed or occupied,
if with the permission of. the owner or claimant.
"Guaranteeing, however, the right to all citizens of the
United States to enter upon and occupy as settlers any lands
not actually occupied and cultivated by said Indians at this
time, and not included m the reservation above named.
"Article III. And provided That, if necessary for the public
convenience, roads may be run through the said reservation,
and, on the other hand, the right of way, with free access from
the same to the nearest public highway, is secured to them,
as also the right, in common with citizens of the United States,
to travel upon all public highways.
"The exclusive right of taking' fish m all the streams where
running through or bordering said reservation, is further secured to said confederated tribes and bands of Indians, as also
the right of taking fish at all usual and accustomed places, in
common with citizens of the Territory, and of erecting temporary buildings for curing them, together with the privilege
of hunting, gathering roots and berries, and pasturing .their
horses and cattle upon open and unclaimed land.
"Article X. And provided, That there is also reserved and
set apart from the lands ceded by this treaty, for the use and
benefit of the aforesaid confederated tribes and bands, a tract
of land not exceeding in quantity one township of six mile
square, situated at the forks of the Pisquouse or Wenatshapam
River, and known as the 'Wenatshapam fishery,' which said
reservation shall be surveyed and marked out whenever the
President may direct, and be subject to the same provisions
and restrictions as other Indian reservations." 12 Stat. 951.

UNITED *STATES v. WINANS.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The respondents or their predecessors m title claim under
patents of the United States the lands bordering on the Columbia River and under grants from the State of Washington to
the shore land-which, it is alleged, fronts on the patented land.
They also introduced in evidence licenses from the' State to
maintain devices for taking fish, called fish wheels.
At the time the treaty was made the-fishing places were part
of the Indian country, subject to the occupancy of the Indians,
with all the rights such occupancy gave. The object of the
treaty was to limit the occupancy to certain lands and to define
rights outside of them.
The pivot of the controversy is the construction of the
second paragraph. Respondents contend that the words "the
right of taking fish at all usual and accustomed places rn common with the citizens of the Territory" confer only such rights"
as a white man wbuld have under the conditions of ownership.
of the lands bordering on the river, and under the laws of the
State, and, such being the rights conferred, the respondents
further contend that they -have the power to exclude the
Indians from the river by reason of such ownership. Before
filing their answer respondents demurred to the bill. The
court overruled the demurrer, holding that the bill stated facts
.sufficient to show that the Indians were excluded from the
exercise of the rights given them by the treaty The court
further found, however, that it would "not be justified in
issuing process to compel the defendants to permit the Indians
to make a camping ground of their property while engaged
,in fishing." 73 Fed. Rep. 72. The injunction that had been
granted upon the filing of the bill was modified by stipulation
in accordance with the view of the court.
Testimony was taken on the issues made by the bill and
answer, and upon the submission of the case the-bill was dismissed, the court applying the doctrine expressed by it in
United States v Alaska Packers' Assn., 79 Fed. Rep. 152,
The James G Swan, 50 Fed. Rep. 108, expressing its views
as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

"After the ruling on the demurrer the only issue left for
determination in this case is as to whether the defendants have
interfered or threatened to interfere with the rights of the
Indians to share in the common right of the public of taking
fish from the Columbia River, and I have given careful consideration to the testimony bearing upon this question. I
find from the evidence that the defendants have excluded the
Indians from their own lands, to which a perfect absolute title
has been acquired from the United States Government by
patents, and they have more than once instituted legal proceedings against the Indians for trespassing, and the defendants
have placed in the river in front of their lands fishing wheels
for which licenses were granted to them by the State of Washmgton, and they claim the right to operate these fishing wheels,
which necessitates the exclusive possession of the space occupied by the wheels. Otherwise the defendants have not
molested the Indians nor threatened to do so. The Indians
are at the present time on an equal footing with the citizens
of the United States who have not acquired exclusive proprietary rights, and this it seems to me is all that they can
legally demand with respect to fishing privileges in waters
outside the limits of Indian reservations under the terms of
their treaty with the United States."
The remarks of the court clearly stated the issue and the
grounds of decision. The- contention of the respondents was
sustained. In other words, it was decided that the Indians
acquired no rights but what any inhabitant of the Territory or
State would have. Indeed, -acquired no rights -but such as
they would have without the treaty This is certainly an
impotent outcome to negotiations and a convention, which
seemed to promise more and give the word of the Nation for
more. And we have said we will construe a treaty with theIndians as "that unlettered people" understood it, and "as
justice and reason demand in all cases where power is exerted
by the strong over those to whom they owe care and protection," aad counterpoise the inequality "by the superior justice

UNITED STATES v. WINANS.
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

which looks only to the substance of the right without regard
to technical rules." 119 U S. 1,175 U. S. 1. How the treaty
in question was understood may be gathered from the circumstances.
The right to resort to the fishmg'places in controversy was
a part of larger rights possessed by the Indians, upon the
exercise of which there was not a shadow of impediment, and
which were not much less necessary to the existence of the
Indians than the atmosphere they breathed. New conditions
came into existence, to which those rights had to be accommodated. Only a limitation of them, however, was necessary
and intended, not a taking away In other words, the treaty
was not a grant of rights to the Indians, but a grant of rights
from them-a reservation of those not granted. And the
form of the instrument and its language was adapted to that
purpose. Reservations were not of particular parcels of land,
and could not be expressed in deeds as dealings between private
individuals. The reservations were in large areas of territory
and the negotiations were with the tribe. They reserved
rights, however, to every individual Indian, as though named
therein. They nposed a servitude upon every piece of land
as though described therein. There was an exclusive right of
fishing reserved within certain boundaries. There was a right
outside of those boundaries reserved "in common with citizens
of the Territory" As a mere right, it was not exclusive in the
Indians. Citizens might share it, but the Indians were secured
in its enjoyment by a spqcial provision of means for its exercise.
They were given "the right of taking fish as all usual and accustomed places," and the right "of erecting temporary buildings for curing them." The contingency of the future ownership of the lands, therefore, was foreseen and .provided form other words, the Indians were given a right in the landthe right of crossing it to the river-the right to occupy it
to the extent and for the purpose mentioned. No other
conclusion would give effect to the treaty. And the right
was intended to be continuing against the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1904..
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

.and its, grantees as well as against the State and its grantees.
The respondents urge an argument based upon the different
capacities of white men and Indians to devise and make use
of instrumentalities to enjoy the common right. Counsel say"The fishing right was in common, and aside from the right
of the State to license fish wheels the wheel- fishing is one of
the civilized man's methods, as legitimate- as the stAbstitution
of the modern combined harvester for the ancient sickle. and
flail." But the result does not follow that the Indians may
be absolutely excluded. It needs no argument to show that
the superiority of a combined harvester over fhe ancient sickle
neither increased nor decreased rights to the use of land held
in common. In the actual taking of fish white men may not
be confined to a spear or crude net, but it does not follow that
they may construct and use a device which gives them exclusive possession of the fishing places, as it is admitted a fish
wheel does. Besides, the fish wheel is not relied on alone. Its
monopoly is made comjlete by a license from the State The
argument based on the inferiority of the Indians is peculiar.
If the Indians had not been inferior in capacity and power,
what the treaty would have been, or that there would have
been any treaty, would be hard to guess.
The construction of the treaty disposes of certain subsidiary
contentions of respondents. The Land Department could grant
no exemptions from its provisions. It makes no difference,
therefore, that the patents issued by the Department are absolute m form. They are subject to the treaty as to the other
laws of the land.
It is further contended that the rights conferred upon the
-Indians are subordinate to.the powers acquired by the State
upon its admission into the Union. In other words, it is contended that the State acquired, by its admission into the
Union "upon an equal footing with the original States," the
power to grant rights in or to dispose of the shore lands upon
navigable streams, and such power is subject only to the

UNITED STATES v. WINANS.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

paramount authority of Congress with regard to public navigation and commerce. The United.States, therefore, it is contended, could neither grant nor retain rights in the shore or to
the lands under water.
The elements of this contention and the answer to it are
expressed in Shwely v Bowlby, 152 U S. 1. It is unnecessary,
and it would be difficult, to add anything to the reasoning of
that. case. The power and rights of the States in and over
shore lands were carefully defined, but the power of the United
States, while it held the country as a Territory, to create rights
which would be binding on the States was also announced,
opposing the dicta scattered through the cases, which seemed
to assert a contrary view It was said by the court, through
Mr. Justice Gray"
"Notwithstanding the dicta contained in some -of the opmions of this court, already quoted, to the effect that Congress
has no power to grant any land below high water mark of
navigable waters in a Territory of the United States, it is evident that this is not strictly true."
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"By the Constitution, as is now well settled, the United
States, having rightfully acquired the Territories, and being
the only Government which can impose-laws upon them,. have
the entire dominion and sovereignty, national and municipal,
Federal and State, over all the Territories, so long as they
remain in a territorial condition. Amercan Ins Co. v Canter,
1 Pet. 511, 542; Benner v Porter, 9 How 235, 242; Cross v
Harnson,16 How 164, 193, Nat-onal Bank v Yankton County;
101 U. S. 129, 133, M2rphy v Ramsey, 114 U S. 15, 44,
Mormon Church v United States, 136 U S. 1, 42, 43, MeAlister
v United States, 141 U S. 174, 181."
Many cases were cited. And it was further said.
"We cannot doubt, therefore, that Congress has the power
to make grants of lands below high water mark -f navigable
waters in any Territory of the United States, whenever it
becomes necessary to do so in order to perform international

OCTOBER TERM, 1904:
Opmion of the Court.

198 U. S.

obligations, or to effect the improvement of such lands for the
promotion and convenience of, commerce with foreign nations
and among the several States, or to carry out other public
purposes appropriate to the objects for which the United States
hold the Territory"
The extinguishment of - the Indian title, opening the land
for settlement and preparing the way for future States, were
appropriate to the objects for which the United States held
the Territory And surely it was within the competency of
the Nation to secure to. the Indians such a remnant of the
great rights they possessed as "taking fish at all usual and accustomed places." Nor does it restrain the State unreasonably,
if at all, in the regulation of the right. - It only fixes in the land
such easements as enables the right to be exercised.
The license from the State, which respondents plead to
maintain a fishing wheel, gives no power to them to exclude
the Indians, nor was it intended to give such power. It was
the permission of the State to use a particular device. What
rights the Indians had were not determined or limited. This
was a matter for judicial determination regarding the rights
of the Indians and rights of the respondents. And that there
may be an adjustment and accommodation of them the Solicitor General concedes and points out the way We think,
however, that such adjustment and accommodation are more
witfim, the province of the Circuit Court in the first instance
than of this court.
Decree reversed and the, case remanded for further proceedings
sn accordance with thts opnnwn.
MR. JUSTICE WiTE dissents.

