DELAWARE, L. &c. R. R. CO.

198 U. S.

. PENNSYLVANIA 81

Syllabus.

this action for divorce was identical with that decided in the
suit mulllinois for separate maintenance. This being the case
it follows that the Supreme Court of California in affirming
the judgment of divorce failed to give to the decree of the

Illinois court the due faith and credit to which it was entitled,
and thereby violated the Constitution of the Umted States.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Califorma must
therefore be reversed, and the cause be remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so. ordered.
MR. JUsTicE BRoWN concurs in the result.

DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA AND WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TrO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 208. Argued April 10, 1905.--Decided May 15, 1905.

A tax on the value of the capital stock of a corporation is: a tax on the
property in which that capital is invested, and therefore no tax can be
levied upon the corporation issuing the stock which includes-property
that is otherwise exempt.
The same rule that requires the exclusion from the assessment of valuation
of capital stock of tangible personal property permanently situated out
of the State applies to property sent out of the State to be sold and which
is actually out of the State when the assessment is made.
As a State cannot directly tax tangible property permanently outside the
State and having no situs within the State, it cannot attain the same end
by taxing the enhanced value of the capital stock of a corporation which
arises from the value of property beyond its jurisdiction.
While an appraisement of value is in general a decision on a question of
fact and final, where it is arrived at by including property not within
the jurisdiction of the State, it is al solutely illegal as made withoutjurisdiction.
The collection of a tax on a corporation on its capital stock based on a
valuation which includes property situated out of the State would amount

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

to the taking of property without due process of law and can be restrained
by the Federal courts.
In assessing the value of the capital stock of a corporation of Pennsylvania
under the act of that State of June 8, 1891, coal which is owned by the
corporation, but at the time of the assessment situated in another State
not to be returned to Pennsylvama, should not be included.
THE plaintiff in error brings this case here to review the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, 206 Pa. St.
645, in favor of that State on a question raised by the plaintiff
in error as to its liability to taxation by the State, upon certain
coal of the value of $1,702,443, beldngmg to the plaintiff in
error, which had. been mined in Pennsylvania, and which,
prior to the appraisement of the value of the capital stock of
the company, pursuant to the Pennsylvania statute, for taxation in Pennsylvania, had been transported to and was situated in other States awaiting sale.
The case arises under proceedings provided for by the
Pennsylvania statute for appraising, for the purposes of taxation, the value of the capital stock of corporations, such as the
plaintiff in error, for the year ending in November, 1899. The
statute under which the appraisement was made was passed
June 8, 1891 (amendment of act of 1889), printed on page 229
et seq. of the.Laws of Pennsylvania for that year. The sections
of the act in, question are four and five, and are reproduced
in the margin. 1

I Sections of the act of June 8, 189L
SEe. 4. Thot hereafter, except in the case of banks, savings institutions
and fordign insurance companies, it shall be the duty of the president,
chairman, or treasurer of every corporation, having capital stock, every
,joint-stock association and limited partnership whatsoever, now or hereafter organized or incorporated by or under any law of this Commonwealth,
and of every corporation, joint-stock association and limited partnership
whatsoever, now or hereafter incorporated or organized by or under the
laws of any other State or Territory of the United States, or by the United
States or by any foreign government, and doing business in and liable to
taxation within this Commonwealth, or having capital or property employed or used in this Commonwealth by or in the name of any limited
partnership, joint-stock association, company, or corporation whatsoever,
association or associations, copartnership or copartnerships, person or

DELAWARE, L. &c. R. R. CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA. 343
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

In appraising the value of the capital stock of the. plaintiff
m error, pursuant to that statute, it is contended by it that

the appraising officers should have deducted from the value
persons, or in any other inanner, to make a report in writing to the auditor
general, in the month of November, one thousand eight hundred and ninetytwo, and annually thereafter, stating specificallyFirst. Total authorized capital stock.
Second. Total authorized number of shares.
Third. Number of shares of stock issued.
Fourth. Par value of each share.
Fifth. Amount paid into the treasury on each share.
Sixth. Amount of capital paid m.
Seventh. Amount of capital on which dividend was declared.
Eiglhth. Date of.each dividend declared durng said year ended withthe
first Monday of November.
Ninth. Rate per centum of each dividend declared.
Tenth. Amount of each dividend during the year ended, with the first
Monday in said month.

Eleventh. Gross earnings during the year.
Twelfth. Net earnings during said year.
Thirteenth. Amount. of surplus.
Fourteenth. Amount of profit added to sinking fund during saidyear.
Fifteenth. Highest price of sales of stock between the first and fifteenth
days of November aforesaid.
Sixteenth. Highest price of sales of stock during the year aforesaid.
Seventeenth. Average price of sales of stock during the year; and in
every case any two of the following-named officers of such corporation,
limited partnership or joint-stock association, namely- The president,
chairman, secretary, and treasurer, after being duly sworn or affirmed to do
and performthe same with fidelity, and according to the best of their knowledge and belief, shall, between the first and fifteenth dys of November of
each year, estimate hnd appraise the capital stock of the said company at
its actual value in cash, not less, however, than the average price which
said stock sold for during said year, and not less than the price or value
indicated-or meastired by net earnings or by the amount of profit made and
either drclared in dividends or carried into surplus or sinking fund, and
when the same shah ,have been so truly estimated, and appraised they shall
forthwith forward to the audito! general a certificate thereof, accompanied
with a copy of their said oath or affirmation, signed by them and attested
by a magistrate or o1her person duly qualified to administer the, same:
Prozided,That if the audifor general and state treasurer, or either, of them,
is not satisfied with the appraisement and valuation so made and returned,
they are hereby authorized and -empowered to make a valuation thereof,
based upon the facts contained in. the report herein reqdtied, pr upon any
information within their possession or that shall como into their possession,

OCTOBER TBRMf, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

of the stock the value of the coal mined in Pennsylvania by
the company and -owned by it, but situated m other States,
there awaiting sale, and beyond the jurisdiction of the State
and to settle an account on the valuation so made by them for the taxes,
penalties and interest due the Commonwealth thereon, with right to the
company -dissatisfied with any settlement so made against it to appeal'
therefrom in the manner now provided by law; and in the event of the neglect or refusal of the officers of any corporation, company, joint-stock association or limited partnership, for a period of sixty days, to make the
report and appraisement to the auditor general as herein provided, it shall
be the duty of the auditor general and state treasurer to estimate a valuation of the capital stock of such defaulting corporation, company, jointstock association or limited partnership, and settle an account for taxes,
penalty and interest thereon, from which settlement there shall be no right
of appeal.
SEc. 5. That every corporation, joint-stock association, limited partnership and company whatsoever, from which a report is required under.the
twentieth section hereof,.shall be subject to and payinto the treasury of the
Commonwealth, -annually, a tax 'at the rate of five mills upon each dollar
of the actual value, of its whole capital" stock, of all kinds, mdiuding common, special and preferred, as ascertained in the manner prescribed in said
twentieth section, and it shall, be the duty of the treasurer or other officers
having charge -of any such corporation, joint-stock association or limited
partnership, upon ,vnch a tax is unposed by this section, to transmit the
amount of said tax to the treasury of the Commonwealth within thirty days
from the date of -the settlement of the account by the auditor general and
state treasurer: Provzded, That for the purposes of this act, interests in
limited partnerships or joint-stock associations shall be deemed to be capital
stock and taxable accordingly- Providd also, That corporations, limited
partnerships and joint-stock associations, liable to tax on capital stock
under this section, shall not be required to make report or pay any further
tax on the mortgages,.bonds and other securities owned by them in their
own right; but 'corporations, limited partnerships and joint-stock associations holding such securities as trustees, executors, administrators, guardians, or in any'other manner, shall return and pay the tax imposed by this
.act upon all securities so held by them as in the case of individuals: And
provided further That the provistons of this section shall not apply to the
taxation of the capital stock of corporationsi limited partnerships and
joint-stock a.ociations, organized exclusively for manufacturing purposes
and ictually ci i-ying on manufacturing within the State, excepting companies engagea in the brewing and distilling of spirits or malt liquors and
such as enjoy and exercise the right of eminent domain: Proznded further,
In case of fire and marine insurance companies the tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three mills upon each dollar of the actual value
of the wholdecapital stock.

DELAWARE, L. &c. R. R. CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA. 845
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case..

of Pennsylvania at the time the appraisement was made.
This contention was overruled by the state cqurts.
The facts upon which the judgment rests were found by the
court, and are. as follows:
"1. The Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad Company was organized under the special act of the general assembly of Pennsylvania approved March 11, 1853, by the
consolidation of the Liggetts Gap Railroad Company, incorporated under the act of April 7, 1832, whose name was, -by
the act of April 14, 1851, changed to Lackawanna and Western
Railroad Company, and the Delaware and Cobbs Gap Railroad
Company, incorporated by the act of April 7, 1849. Into the
Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad Company as
formed by .the merger of the Lackawanna and Western Railroad Company and the Delaware and Cobbs Gap Railroad
Company were merged, December 27, 1865, the Keyser Valley
Railroad Company; August 12, 1870, the Nanticoke Coal and
Coke Company, and June 17, 1870, the Lackawanna and
Bloomsburg Railroad Company The company, as authorized
by special act of Pennsylvania legislature, has its general office
and treasury in the city and State of New York, though its
corporate home is m Pennsylvama. It-is authorized by law
to own coal lands in Pennsylvania, and to mine, buy and sell
coal and convey the same to market; and, 14 addition to its
business of owning and operating an extensive system of railroads, is engaged m the business of mining, buying and selling
coal. The proper officers of the company returned and appraised its capital stock as of the actual value, between the
first. and fifteenth days of November, 1899, of $48,470,000,
and in making up the clain of the State for taxes for said year,
the auditor general made no deductions whatever, but charged
tax at five mills upon said aggregate valuation of $48,470,000,
the said tax amounting to $242,350. Amongst other property
in addition to its railroad, the company owned coal located
at points outside of Pennsylvania in New York, Illinois -and
other States of the value of $1,702,443, and, as already stated,

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U S.

no deduction was made by the auditor general in his statement.
of account against the company for or with respect to this
coal. All taxes assessed. against the company for 1899 in
other States, on coal located there, have been paid, according,
to the belief and so far as the secretary of the company can
now, May 25, 1901, recall.
"There were other items in dispute in addition to the coal,
and they were covered by defendant's appeal, but the attorney
general, on behalf 6f the Commonwealth, and counsel for the
defendant, entered into an agreement in writing as follows, viz.
" 'Ald now, to wit, April 10, 1901, it is hereby agreed that
the jury shall deduct and not include in its verdict any tax
upon $1,702,444, being the value of coal held and owned at
points in States other than Pennsylvania, according to the
facts as set forth in the depositions of Fred. F Chambers and
W , i. Truesdale, defendant's treasurer and president, respectively, hereto attached and made part hereof. The said
deduction having been made final judgment shall be entered
upon -the verdict-of the jury in favor of the Commonwealth
and against the defendant. The question of defendant's liability to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for taxes upon
or in respect of said coal held, owned and stored at points in
States other than Pennsylvania is hereby reserved, and it is
agreed that it shall be submitted for the determination of the
court. If the court shall be of the opinion that upon the facts
stated in the aforesaid depositions of Fred. F Chambers and
W H. Truesda', attached to and made part hereof, the defendant is liable for tax to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
upon coal thus held, owned and stored at points in States other
than Pennsylvania, then judgment shall be entered in favor
of the Commonwealth and against the defendant for the further
sum of $8,512.21, being five mills upon the said $1,702,443,
the value of the said coal, to which amount there shall be
added the usual attorney general's commission of five per cent,
either of the parties to be at liberty to file exceptions to, and
,appeal from, the decisibn of the court upon the said- reserved

DELAWARE, L. &c. R. R. CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA. 347
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

point with like effect as if the case had been tried by the court
without a jury under the act of April 22, 1874.'
"3. The case having been submitted to the jury, a verdict
was rendered as follows, viz..
Tax ..
Less five mills on coal, $1,702,443.00

$111,250 00
8,512 21

Less payment on account.

$102,737 79
100,000 00

Add attorney general's commission of 5 per cent.
Verdict for

$2,737 79
136 88
$2,874.67

"The judgment entered upon said verdict has been paid by
defendant, leaving open only the one question submitted to
the court as aforesaid of the defendant's liability to taxation
with respect to capital stock invested m coal located outside
of Pennsylvania.
"4. The facts agreed upon by counsel for the Commonwealth and the company are set forth in the affidavits of
W H. Truesdale, president, and Fred. F. Chambers, the
secretary and treasurer of the company, and, in so far as they
relate to the-reserved question, are as follows, viz..
"'Under powers conferred by special charter previous to
the adoption of the present constitution of Pennsylvania, the
Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad Company is
largely engaged in the mining and purchasing of anthracite
coal m Pennsylvania, nearly all of which -coal it transports to
points without said State and there sells. By 'far the greater
part of this coal is transported from the mines for immediate
delivery at points in other States, and is not kept or held in
stock in said other States longer than is necessary for the purpose of transferring possession from this company to the
purchaser; but at certain points in other States, as, for instance, at Buffalo, N. Y., and at Chicago, Ill., the company

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

keeps constantly on hand a stock of coal for purposes of sale,
the same being stored in yards or upon docks maintained by
the company for that purpose. The coal thus on hand awaiting sale' between the first and fifteenth days of N~ovember,
1899, the date when the company's capital stock is required
by law to be appraised for taxation, was of the value of not
less than $1,702,443, and was included in the valuation of the
company's capital stock upon which tax was charged in the
auditor general's account. The coal thus on hand at that date
was approximately the amount usually kept m stock at such
points. The said coal when shipped from Pennsylvania was
destined to said points in other States, with no intention of
ever returning the same to Pennsylvania. On the contrary,
said coal was intended to, and did, become part of the general
mass of property m said other States, and the company is
there annually taxed upon or in respect to the same, and was
so taxed for 1899. When the coal thus kept in stock in the
States of New York, Illinois, and other States outside of
Pennsylvania is sold, the proceeds are returned to the company's treasury in the city and State of New York.
" 'In 1899 the company sold and delivered coal at points
outside of the State of Pennsylvania of the aggregate value
of not less than $18,587,258, but this was either contracted
for before it left the mines or delivered upon, or within a
comparatively short time after its arrival at the points in
other States to which it was to be delivered. What I have
said above was with reference only to coal kept m stock at
points outside of Pennsylvania for purposes of sale.'
"5. The corporation defendant is authorized by law to
transact business and to hold lands in other States for depot,
wharfage and coal-yard accommodations and to make such
agreements and contracts with corporations and individuals
of other States as may be necessary and expedient for tie
transporting and vending of coal mined and purchased by it,
and defendant is also authorized to have and maintain its
general office and place of business, and to- hold its- stock-

DELAWARE, L. &c. R.
198 U.S.

I

. CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA. 349

Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

holders' meeting, in the State of New York, and to have as
president, directors and other officers non-residents of the
State of Pennsylvania. The company is taxable upon the
value of the property represented by its capital stock, and
not upon the amount of the latter."
Mr M. E. Olmsted, with whom Mr W. W Ross and Mr
A. C. Stamm were on the brief, for plaintiff in error"
The tax .claimed is a tax on property Pennsylvana v
N Y., Penna. & 0. R. R. Co., 188 Pa. St. 169; Bank of
Commerce v. New York City, 2 Black, 620; Bank Tax Case, 2
Wall. 200; Commonwealth v Standard Oil Co., 101 Pa. St.
145.
It was not within the intent or power of the legislature to
impose a tax on tangible property without the territorial limits,
and protection of the laws, of the State. Commonwealth v
Del., L. & W Ry. Co., 145 Pa. St. 96, Commonwealth v Mining Co., 5 Pa. County Ct. Rep. 89, and other cases in note
thereto; Commonwealth v Westinghouse Co., 151 Pa. St..265,
Commonwealth v Dredgng Co., 122 Pa. St. 386.
The coal involved in this case was permanently located
and actually taxed in other States. Commonwealth v Coal
Co., 197 Pa. St. 351.
This coal is exempt in Pennsylvania as it is taxable in other
States under Brown v Houston, 114 U S. 622; Coe v Errol,
116 U. S. 517, Coal Co. v Balis, 156 U S. 577, United States
>v Knight, 156 U S. 1, 13, Kelley v Rhoads, 188 U S. 1,
Dzamond Match Co. v Ontonagon, 188 U S. 82; Finley v
Philadelphia, 32 Pa. St. 381.
Taxing property having. its situs in another State violates
the Federal Constitution. It violates interstate comity and
interstate commerce. McCulloch v Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316,
429; St. Louis v Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423, Hays v Pacific
Mail, 17 How 596, State Tax on Foreign-heldBonds, 15 Wall.
300; Railroad Co. v Jackson, 7 Wall. 262; Pullman Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 141 U. S, 18, Adams Express Co. v Ohio, 165

OCTOBER TERMN,

1904.

Argument for Defendant m Error.

198 U. S.

U. S. 194, Adams Express Co. v Ohw, 166 U. S. 185, 224,
Am. Refrgerator Co. v Hall, 174 U. S. 70.
Mr Hampton L. Carson, Attorney General of the State of
Pennsylvania, with whom Mr Frederc W Fleitz was on the
brief, for defendant in error,The tax claimed is not a tax directly laid upon tangible
property situate outside of the State, but is a capital stock
tax imposed directly upon the capital stock of a Pennsylvania
corporation at a fixed rate of five mills upon each dollar of the
actual value of the whole capital stock, including bonds,
mortgages, moneys at. interest, owned by the company, franchises and property of other kinds. Commonwealth v Railroad Co., 188 Pa. St. 185, Commonwealth v Coal Co., 197
Pa. St. 553; Laws of Pennsylvania, 1891, 229.
The legislature has a general power of taxation which, is
necessary for the existence and preservation of the government.
It may be exercised to any extent- to which the State may
choose to carry it, not in violation of the powers granted to
the Federal Government or the restrictions set forth m the
state constitution. Sharpless v Philadelphia,21 Pa. St. 160.
The legislature may tax the same subject once, twice or
oftener. Such power is not prohibited by the constitution,
the only feature required being that the intention must be
clear. Commonwealth v Coal Co., 156 Pa. St. 488, Commonwealth v Lehigh C & N Co., 162 Pa. St. 603.
Conceding that instrumentalities of interstate commerce
cannot be taxed by the State where the taxation interferes
with the commerce itself it is a well settled principle %gto
tangible property that at times it is to be treated as practically intangible because of its roving character. Vessels engaged in foreigri or interstate commerce have their situs at
their port of registry and are taxable there, and shares of stock
in national banks, located in this State, owned by non-residents
of this State are taxable here. Vessels, if unregistered, have

DELAWARE, L. &c. R. R. CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA. 361
198 U.S.

Argument for Defendant- m Error.

their situs for taxation in the State which is the domicil of
their owner. Commonwealth v Standard Oil Co., 101 Pa. St.
119; Pullman Co. v Commonwealth, 107 Pa. St. 156, aff'd
Pullman Co. v Pennsylvana, 141 U S. 18, Commonwealth v
Dredging Co., 122 Pa. St. 386, Commonwealth v D.,, L. & W
R. R. Co., 145 Pa. St. 96;-Commonwealth v Coal Co., 197. Pa.
St. 551.
The principal subjects of corporate taxation in Pennsylvania
are capital stock, shares and franchises. The tax on capital
stock of corporations has always been levied* upon. capital
-stock according to the value of the property which it represents.
Commonwealth v Standard Oil Co., 101 Pa. St. 119; Whitworth on Tax. of Corp. in Pennsylvania, ch. I, ยง 14, pp. 59-140.
The capital stock tax claimed is not a tax laid, or sought.
to be laid, directly upon tangible -property beyond the terntonal limits of Pennsylvania or the protection- of her laws.
Deductions from the value of the capital stock of a Pennsylvania corporation cannot be allowed for property which has
not acquired a foreign situs, because of its return in value to
the treasury of the company It is the value of the stock that
is taxed and not the property representing that value. Commonwealth v Minzng Co., 5 Pa. County Ct. Rep. 89; Commonwealth v Coal Co. 197 Pa. St. 551.
We do not concede that the coal in question was permanentlyV located and actually taxed in States other than Pennsylvania, nor do we concede the pertinency of the case of
Brown v Houston, 114 U S.622, and the authorities cited in
support and confirmation thereof.
Ilefore the coal had started on its journey, the right of
Pennsylvania to tax capital stock, into the value of which
the value of the coal had entered, had attached and could not
be divested.
The cases cited by plaintiff in error as to state taxes on
goods in course of transportation are-inapplicable to this case.
There is no Federal question. Kirtland v Hotchkwss, 100
U. S.491, People v Commisswners, 104 U S.466.

OCTOBER TERAI, 190.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania bases its decision in
this case on the authority of Commonwealth v Pennsylvana
Coal Co., 197 Pa. St. 551, which it regards as controlling upon
the question involved. The right to include the value of the
coal m question in the valuation of the capital stock of the
company is based upon the construction given by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania to the Pennsylvania statute of
1891, and this court is concluded by that construction. People
v Weaver, 100 U. S. 539, 541.
The only question for this court to determine is whether,
in.refusing to deduct the value of the coal mined in Pennsylvania, and which at the time of the appraisement was situated
outside the jurisdiction of the State, from the value of the
capital stock, the state court denied any right of the plaintiff
in error, whieh was protected by the Federal Constitution.
The coal itself,, when the appraisement of the value of the
capital stock was made, was concededly beyond the jurisdiction of the State of Pennsylvania. It was taxable (and in
fact~was taxed) in the States where it rested for the purpose
of sale, at the time when the appraisement in question was
made. Brown v Houston, 114 U S. 622. In that case the
court held that the coal was properly taxed by the State of
Louisiana, though it had but lately arrived from the State of
its origin, Pennsylvania, and was at the time of the taxation
awaiting sale in Louisiana, and was, in fact, soon thereafter
sold and taken out of the country to a foreign State. It was
said, that the coal, on arrival at New Orleans for the purpose
of sale, at once became intermingled with the general property
of the State of Louisiana and was taxalle like ahy other tangible property therem. In Coe v Errol, 116 U. S. 517, the
question was relative to the validity of the tax on the lumber
-imposed in the State of its origin, as that State had taxed the
lumber before it had actually left the State, although it was

DELAWARE, L. &c. R. R. CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA. 353
198'U. S.

Opunon of the Court

mtended for transportation to another State for sale. It was
held that the tax was proper, so long, and so long only, as such
transportation had not yet actually commenced. After that
the State had no right to tax it. In the case at bar the coal
.had been transported to and was actually resting in another
State for sale when the appraisement was made, and under
the foregoing cases it was then mtermigled with property in
the foreign State where it rested and was at that time liable
to taxation thereto. The right of the foreign State to tax
under such circumstances was again upheld in Pittsburg &
Southern Coal Co. v Bates, 156 U S.*577, where the coal was
taxed while awaiting sale in such State. See Kelley v Rhoads,
188 U. S. 1, Diamond Match Co. v Ontonagon, 188 U S.82.
We must, therefore, take it as plain, under the foregoing
decisions, that this coal, at the time of the appraisement of
the value of the capital stock for taxation by Pennsylvania,
had become intermingled with the mass of property in the
other States, to which portions of it had respectively been
sent, and that it was a proper subject for taxation for both
state and local purposes in such States. Where the proceeds
of the sale might go when the cbal was sold, whether into the
-treasury of the company at.its offices in New York City, or
indirectly to the State of its incorporation, is not important.
The coal had not been sold when the appraisement of the value
of the capital stock was made, and at that time-it was outside
the jurisdiction of the State of Pennsylvania. A tax on that
coal, eo *nomine, or specifically, could not tl~en be laid by that
State, as counsel cdncede.
Now, was this tax, in substance and effect, laid upon the
coal which was beyond the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania? The
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania has held that a tax on. the
value of the capital stock is a tax on the property and assets
of the corporation issuing such stock. Commonwealth v
Standard Oil Co., 101 Pa. 9t, 119, 145, Fox's Appeal, 112 Pa.
St. 337, Commonwealth v Delaware &c- R. R. Co., 165 Pa. St.
.44. This court has also frequently held that a tax on the
VOL. oxoviI-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

198 U. S.

value of the capital stock of a corporation is a tax on the
property in which that capital is invested, and in consequence
no tax can thus be levied which includes property that is otherwise exempt. Bank ofCommerce v New York City, 2 Black,
620; Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200; Pullman's Car Co. v Pennsylvanw, 141 U. S.18, 25, Fargo v Hart, 193 U. S. 490, 498,
499.
The cases of the taxation upon the value of the capital stock
of-the banks, or on a valuation equal to the amount of their
capital stock paid in or secured to be paid in, as reported im
2 Black and 2 Wall., supra, involved the question of the taxation of United States bonds and other securities of the United
States, in which the capital of the banks was invested, which
were exempt from taxation, but the holding of the court was
that those bonds and securities were m fact taxed by a tax
upon the value of -the capital of the bank, which was invested
in such bonds and securities. Of course, the distinction between the capital stock of a corporation,. and the shares into
which it may be divided- and held by individual shareholders,
is borne in mind and recognized, and nothing herein affects
that distinction. The question here is simply as to -the value
of *the capital stock with reference to the assessment and
taxation upon the corporation itself which issues it, and has
nothing to do with the individual shareholder. Van Allen v
Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, Bank of Commerce v Tennessee, 161
U. S. 134, 146.
Counsel for defendant in error find no fault with the principle stated in Brown v Houston, supra, and that line of
cases, nor with the general proposition laid down in the other
cases cited, that a tax on the value of the capital stock is a
tax on the property of the corporation in which the capital
is invested. They, deny, however, their applicability to the
facts of this case. They concede that the courts of Peniisylvania have held that tangible property, permanently located
outside of the State, for the use and benefit of the corporation,
and owned by it, is exempt from taxation under this statute.
-

DELAWARE, L. &c. R. R. CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA. 355

198 U. S.

Opunon of the Court.

They also concede that it was never within the intent or the
power of the legislature to impose a tax upon tangible property
when held outside of the territorial limits of the State, but they
insist that this tax is not eo nomzne or specifically upon tangible
property outside the State, and they contend that the State
has the right to consider the value of the coal as having entered
into the value of the capital stock as soon as it was mined, and
that the State then had the right to treat the coal as one of the
items that went into the value of the capital stock, just the
same as they contend for the right to so tfeAt the money
realized from the coal upon its sale in the foreign State when
it has been returned to the State and has gone into the surplus
fund. The position of the defendant *i error, then, is this:
e
The tax in question is not a tax upon coal, treated as._Jp
property and a tangible asset specifically subject t; tax, but
is a tAiupoii i-a
-f-t ca
5tock
s'l
Qf heP ennsylvia
corporation at the fixed rate of five mills for each-d6flar of the
actual value of the whole capital stock including bonds, mor.
gages, moneys at interest, franchies, and property of other
kinds, and that the statute in question does not impose a tax
on the coal itself. Counsel do not contend that a tax on the
value of the capital stock of a corporation is not a tax on its
property in a certain sense, but they contend that while-a tax
on capital stock is a property tax,. yet the property of the
corporation, for the purpose of taxation, is reached through
the tax imposed directly upon the stock (197 Pa. St. 553),
and that there is a distinction between a tax on capital stock
and a direct tax on personal property Theiefore tangible
property situated outside-the State, under the circumstances
set forth in this case, is not directly taxed by a tax on the value
of the capital stock, or at least there is no specific tax upon it,
and the tax is net illegal. It is also said that by reason of the
alleged transitory character of the coal it has never, in law,
lost its origmal domicil, 'wHich still remains in Pennsylvania
and is subject to be there included in the value of the capital
stock of the corporation.

OCTOBER TERII, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S..

The asserted transitory nature of this property does not
seem to us to be material. At the time of the-appraisement
it had been- transported beyond the jurisdic~lon of the State,
never to return in kind, but was intended to be sold in the
foreign State. Such property is entirely unlike the property
involved in Commonwealth v American Dredging Co., 122
Pa. St. 386. That property consisted of vessels, or scows, or
tugs, only temporarily out of the State of Pennsylvania, for
the purpose of engaging in business, and liable to return to
the State at any time, and was without any actual situs beyond
the jurisdiction of the State itself. However temporary the
stay of the coal might be in the particular foreign States where.
it was resting at the time of the appraisement, it was definitely
ap.&crgver beyond the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania. And it
was withil, the jurisdiction of the foreign States for purposes
of taxation,'ond-m truth
t hwa
er-e txed>- We regard this
tax as in substance and fact, though not in form, a tax specifically levied upon the property of the corporation, and part of
that property is outside and beyond the jurisdiction of the
State which thus assumes to tax. it. This is not a question as
between direct or indirect taxation, such as arises under the
Federal Constitution when Congress lays and collects taxes by
virtue of the power given it by that instrument. No question
of uniforihity or apportionment of taxes arises here. The
question now discussed is simply whether, under this statute
of the State, property of the corporation is in substance and
effect taxed while it is beyond the jurisdiction of the State and
is never to return. When the Federal Constitution says no
tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State,
-such articles cannot be taxed, directly or . indirectly, and a
tax on foreign bills of lading is void because it in effect is a
tax on exports. Fasrbank v United States, 181 U S.283,
289.
So, if the State cannot tax tangible property permanently
outside the State and having no situs within the State, it cannot attain the same end by taxing the enhanced value of the

DELAWARE, L.. &c. R. R. CO. -.
198 U. S.

PENNSYLVANIA. 357

Opunon of the Court.

capital stock of the corporation which arises from the value
of the property beyond the jurisdiction of the State.
We think the state court is right m deducting, as it does,
the value of the tangible property, when permanently held in
another State, and we think that for the same reason the same
rule should obtain in the case of tangible property situated,
as this coal was. We cannot see the distinction, so far as the
question now before the court is concerned, between a tax
assessed upon property, eo nommne, or specifically, when outside the State; and a tax assessed against the corporation -upon
the value of its capital stock to the. extent of the value of such
property, and which stock represents to that extent that very
property If the property itself could not be specifically taxed
because outside the jurisdiction of-the State, how does the tax
become legal by providing for assessing the tax on the value
of the capital stock to the extent it represents that property
and from which the stock obtains its increased value? Can
the mere name of the tax alter its nature in such case? If so,
the way is found for taxing property. wholly beyond the junsdiction of the taxing power by calling.it a tax on the value of
capital stock or something else, which represents that property.
Such a tax, in its nature, by whatever name it may be called,.
is a tax upon the specific property which gives the added value
to the capital stock.
Although the coal may have entered into the value of the
capital stock. when, mined, the question is whether the value
of the stock in November, 1899, when the appraisement was
directed by the statute to be made, should not be decreased
by deducting the value of the coal therefrom which was not
in the State at the time of the appraisement. We think it
should, otherwise the tax amounts in substance to a specific
tax on the coal. Taking the different prices of the stock at
different times in the year, and the average -price thereof, and
otherwise following the provisiops of the statute, simply makes
a way of finding the value of the stock between the first and
fifteenth of November in each year. That is the material

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opnon of the Court.

198 U. S.

time'when 'the value is to be ascertained, and at that time this
coal was not in the State. An appraisement thus made, which
includes such property, is to that extent without jurisdiction
and illegal. It is true that in general an appraisement of, or
an assessment of a tax upon, value is a decision upon a question
of fact, and a difference of opinion as to the value between the
assessing officer and the court is immaterial, and the decision
of the former is final. But where the appraisement is arrived
at by including therein tangible property, which is beyond the
jurisdiction of the State, and which, therefore, the assessing
officers had no jurisdiction to appraise (and none could be
given them by the statute), such an appraisement or assessment is absolutely illegal, as made without jurisdiction.
The next question is.whether there is a right to relief m a
case like this, founded upon the provisions of the Federal
Constitution. We think there is. The collection of a tax
under such circumstances would amount to the taking of
property without due process of law, and a citizen is protected
from such taking by .the Fourteenth Amendment. In Louisville &c. Ferry Co. v Kentucky, 188 U S. 385, the ferry company was operating a ferry across the Ohio River between
Jeffersonville in 'Indiana and Louisville in Kentucky, under
two franchises, one granted by the proper authorities of
Indiana for maintaining. a ferry across that river from the
Indiana shore to the Kentucky shore, and the other granted
by the State of Kentucky to carry on a ferry business from
the Kentucky to the Indiana shore. The tax was laid byKentucky upon the company, a part of which the company
insisted was a tax upon it by reason of its ownership of the
Indiana franchise, which it contended was property situated
in Indiana and beyond the jurisdiction of Kentucky The
courts of Kentucky held that, under the statute, "the board
of valuation and assessment did not attempt to assess or tax
its revenues coming from the exercise of its franchise in the
transportation of persons and property over the Ohio River.
But under certain sections of the Kentucky statutes it assessed

DELAWARE, L. &c. R. R. CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA. 359
198 U. S.

Opinaon of the Court.

the value of appellant's franchise, which is its intangible property The board did not assess, or attempt to assess, the
property, either tangible or intangible, which it owned in the
State of Indiana." This court stated. "It thus appears from
the admitted facts and from the opinion of the court below
that the state board, in its valuation and assessment -of the
franchise derived by that company from Kentucky, included'
.the value of the franchise obtained from Indiana for a-ferry
from its shore to the Kentucky shore. In short, as stated by
the Court of Appeals, the value of the franchise of the ferry
company was fixed 'as if it conducted all its business in the
territorial limits of the State of Kentucky,' making no deduction for the value of the franchise obfained from Indiana."
It was held that the franchise granted by Indiana to maintain
a ferry from the Indiana shore was wholly distinct from the
franchise obtAined from Kentucky to maintain *the ferry from
the Kentucky shore, although the enjoyment of both was
essential to a complete ferry right for transportation of persons
and property across the river both ways And each franchise
was property entitled. to the protection of the law After
holding that the privilege of maintaining a ferry in Kentucky
from the Indiana shore to the Kentucky shore was a, franchise
derived from Indiana, and as that franchise was a valuable
right of property, the question arose whether it was within the
power of Kentucky to tax.it, directly or indirectly, and this
court said. "It is said that the Indiana franchise has not been
taxed, but only the franchise derived from- Kentucky; that
the tax is none the less a tax on the Kentucky franchise, because of the value of that franchise -being increased by the
acquisition by the Kentucky -corporation of the franchise
granted by Indiana. This view sacrifices substance to. form.
If the board of valuation and assessment, for purposes of taxation, had separately valued and assessed at a given sum the
franchise derived b the ferry company from Kentucky, and
had separately valued and assessed at another given sum. the
franchise, obtained from Indiana, the. result would have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

the same as if it had assessed, as it did assess, the Kentucky
franchise as an unit upon the basis of its value as enlarged or
increased by the acquisition of the Indiana franchise." And
again. "We recognize the difficulty which sometimes exists in
particular cases in determining the situs of personal property
for purposes of taxation, and the above cases have been referred to because they have gone into judgment and recognize
the general rule that the power of the State to tax is limited
to-subjects within its jurisdiction or over which it can exercise
dominion. No difficulty can exist in applying the general
rule in this case, for, beyond all question, the ferry franchise
derived from Indiana is an incorporeal hereditament derived
from and having its legal situs in that State. It is not within
the jurisdiction of Kentucky The taxation of that franchise
or incorporeal hereditament by Kentucky is, in our opinion,
a deprivation by that State of the property of the ferry company without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States; as much
so as if the State taxed the real estate owned by that company
n Indiana." And in conclusion it was said. "We decide nothing more than it is not competent for Kentucky, under the
charter granted by it, and under the Constitution of the
United States, to tax the franchise which its corporation, the
ferry company, lawfully acquired from Indiana, and which
franchise or incorporeal hereditament has its situs, for purposes of taxation, in Indiana."
It is plain that in the case at bar the coal had lost its situs
in Pennsylvania by being transported from that State to
foreign States for the purposes of sale, with no intention that
it should ever return to its State of origin. It was, therefore,
as much outside the jurisdiction of the State of Pennsylvania
-to tax it as was the Indiana franchise in the case just cited,
and it has been taxed just'as directly and specifically under
the facts stated in this case as was the Indiana franchise taxed
in Kentucky by the valuation of the Kentucky franchise,
which value was increased by the value of the franchise created

CLARK v. NASH.
198 U. S.

Syllabus.

by Indiana. Taxation of the coal m this case deprived the
owner of its property without due process of law, as is held in
the above case, and the owner is entitled to the protection of
the Fourteenth Amendment, which prevents the taking of its
property in that way
The judgment of the -Supreme Court of Pennsylvania is
reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with the opinion of this court.
Reversed.

The CHmF JUSTICE dissented.

CLARK

t.

NASH.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 218. Argued April 19,20, 1905.-Decided May 15, 1905.
Whether the statute of a State permitting condemnation by an individual
for the purpose of obtaining water for his land or for mining, is or is not
a condemnation for public use and, therefore, a valid enactment under
the Constitution, depends upon considerations relating to the situation
of the State and its possibilities for agricultural and mining industries.
The rights of a riparian owner in and to the use of water flowing by his
land, are not the same in the arid and mountainous western States as
they are. m the eastern States..
This court recognizes the difference of climate and soil, which render necessary different laws in different sections of the country, and what is a
public use largely depends upon the facts surrounding the subject, and
with which the people and the courts of the State must be more familiar
than a stranger to the soil.
While private property may not in all cases be taken to promote public
interest and tend to develop the natural resources of the State, m view
of the peculiar conditions existing in the State of Utah, and as the facts
appear in this record, the statute of that State permitting individuals
to enlarge the ditch of another and thereby obtain water for his own
land, is within the legislative power of the State, and does not in any
way violate the Federal Constitution.

