OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

198 U. S.

a port outside its limits. The conclusion, therefore, reached
by the Court of Appeals of Virginia was right, and its judgment
is
Affirmned.

THOMPSON v. DARDEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.
No..159. Argued March 3, 1905.-Decided May 15,1905.

Congress has power to permit, -aid by the act of 1789 and § 4235, Rev.
Stat., has permitted, the several States to adopt pilotage regulations,
,and this court has repeatedly recognized and upheld the validity of state
pilotage laws. The Virinia pilot law is not m conflict with § 4237,
Rev. Stat., prohibiting discriminations because it imposes compulsory
pilotage on all vessels bound in and out through the capes, and does not
impose it on vessels navigating the internal waters of the State; nor can
this objection be sustained on the ground that the navigation of the internal waters of Virginia is more tortuous than that m and out of the
capes.
1,
If a state pilot law does not conflict with the provisions of the Federal
statutes in regard to pilotage this court cannot avoid its provisions because it deems them unwise or unjust.
This court will not investigate or decide a proposition which was no
raised in the court below and is based upon conjecture, even though
the facts suggested xmght have existed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Robert Al. Hughes for plaintiff in error
This statute violates Art. I, § 9, el. 6, U S. Const., which
provides that no preference shall be given by any regulation
of commerce or revenue to the ports of one State over those
of another. -This clause applies both to Federal and state
legislation. PassengerCases, 7 How 414, The Lizzwe Henderson, Fed. Cas. No. 17,726a.
Under § 1965, Virginia Stat., every vessel inward bound
-.

THOMPSON v. DARDEN.
198 U. S.

311

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

from sea must take a Virginia pilot; and under §1963 it is
made a crime for any person not a Virginia pilot, or for li
Virginia pilot after removing from the State, to conduct a
vessel to or from sea.
The statute works a discrimination in favor of voyages
between Virginia ports and Maryland ports. No pilot fee is
imposed for such a voyage, and yet a pilotage fee is imposed
for all vessels coming from sea' to a Maryland port, which
indludes all vessels coming from other States. Therefore,
under this law, a vessel plying between a Virginia port and a
Maryland port is exempt from pilotage, unless it voluntarily
chooses to employ a pilot, and a vessel coming from the port
of any other State to a Maryland port is required to pay
pilotage. Guy v Baltimore, 100 U S. 434, Brewing Co. v
McGillivray, 104 Fed. Rep. 258, The John M. Walsh, 2 Fed.
Rep. 364, Booth v Lloyd, 33 Fed. Rep. 593.
The law is in conflict with § 4237, Rev Stat., which proU S. 90j
hibits discriminations. Spraigue v Thompson 118
The Undaunted, 37 Fed. Rep. 662, Atlee v Unon Packet Co.,
21 Wall. 396.
Section 4237 applies as well to cases where pilotage is
voluntary as to cases where it is compulsory, under §-1963 of
the Virginia pilot law
This court will take 3udicial notice that there are no sea
ports on the outside Virginia coast and the commerce is handled
from the bay ports. Brown v Piper, 91 U S. 37, Minnesota
v Barber, 136 U S. 313, 330.
Thus the question in this case reduces itself simply to the
issue whether a State can do indirectly what it is -forbidden
to do directly; whether it can word a statute in such a way
as to apply ostensibly to waters where it has no ports as an
excuse for making it apply to other States having ports.
Minnesota v Barber, supra; Wright v Wright, 141 U S. 62;
Brimmer v Rebman, 138 U. S. 78.
The law violates § 4236, Rev Stat., under which a master
in boundary waters can take the pilot of either State. Chesa-

OCTOBER -TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant m Frror.

198 U. S.

peake Bay is a boundary between Maryland and Virginia and
under this law a master must take a Virginia, pilot and cannot take aMaryland pilot. As to the Delaware cases m winch
has been held a boundary between Delaware. and Pennsylvania
involving similar question, see The Clymene, 9 Fed. Rep. 164;
S. C., 12 Fed. R p. 346; Abercorn, 26 Fed. Rep. 877, S. C.,
28 Fed. Rep. 384; South Cambrua, 27 Fed. Rep. 525.
Mr D. Tucker Brooke and Mr John W Danzel, with whom
Mr R. C. Marshall and Mr Fred Harper were on the brief,
for defendant m error.. Olsen v,Smith, 195 U. S. 332, covers this case and the" act
is constitutional. Art. I, § 9, cl. 6, of the Constitution of the
United States is not violated. PassengerCases, 7 How 283,
•406, 414, Munn v Illinos, 94 U. S. 135, Morgan v Louzsana,
118 U S. 467, Johnsonv, Chwago, 119 U. S.400; Black's'Const.
Law, 303, Miller's on Const., 576.
'The law 4oes not violate the Revised Statutes.
For history of pilot laws, state and Federal, see 2 Henning's
St. at L. 39;Virgifiia act of 1775;-6 Henning's St. at L. 490;
Ex parte McNeil, 13 Wall. 238, The Chase, 14 Fed. Rep. 854,
atet of Congress of 1789; Virginia Code of 1887, p. 495, §'1965;Virgihia Code of' 1873, ch. 91 § 12, p. 772; act of April 21,
1882, p. 392.
The map of Virginia disproves the assertion that there is
any discrimination in the Virginia statutory law as to "rates
of pilotage" in navigation, outward or inward bound, from
or 'to the Chesapeake Bay and the sea. 'Indeed, there is no
discrimination of any. kind as between "vessels sailing between
the ports of one State" (Virgina), as one class, and "vessels
sailing between ports of different States," as another class.
Seacoast. and -inward pilotage is required by Virginia from
any vessel "inward bound from sea" through the Cape channel
to inland ports, no matter from what port it comes over seas,
and no matter to what port it is bound inward. The "Sea"
or "Ocean" means the-great mass of waters that surround, or

THOMPSON v. DA-RDEN.
198 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

encompass the land, and "The High Seas" means the unenclbsed waters of the ocean. They include the waters on the
.seacoast which are without and seaward of low-water mark
on the seacoast. Bouvier's Law Dictionary, High.Seas and
Sea. Coastwise voyages are on the sea.
The pilotage systems require diversities or plans to meet
local necessities, and are local, not national, in their nature.
In Cooley v Port Wardens, 12 How 299, the statute did not
apply to ports "within the. River Delaware," showing that the
Pennsylvania legislature differentiated inland pilotage from
that which related to waters over which vessels coursed to sea,
just as the Virginia legislature has dones and covering, indeed,
-all the principles that are pertinent to this case and as to the
constitutionality of our composite system of pilotage, which
intermingles Federal and state statutes, or as to the power of
the States under it to differentiate the plans adopted to meet
the local necessities arising as to particular "bays, inlets,
rivers, harbors, and ports," see Ex parte McNeil, 13 Wall. 236,
Steamship Co. v Joliffe, 2 Wall. 450; Sprasgue v Thompson,
118 U. S. 90; Olen v Smith, 195 U S. 332.
Pilotage laws should be liberally construed. Smith v Swift,
8 Mete; 332; The Charlton, 8 Asp. M. C. 29. There are no
discrnminatory features in the act and plaintiff in error errs
in his analysis of the.law.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The law of the State of Virgina imposes compulsory pilotage
on all vessels inward bound from sea through the Virginia
capes, other than coasting vessels having a pilot's license, no
matter to what port.or point the vessel may be bound, and
likewise imposes compulsory pilotage on all vessels outwardbound through the capes. The compulsory pilotage mward
bound from the sea extends no further than to Newport News,.
Smith's P6int, Yorktown. or Norfolk, and the compulsory
pilotage outward bound through the capes commences at said

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.

Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

points respectively In the inland waters of Virginia above
the points named compulsory pilotage does not prevail, but
pilotage is regulated and rates therefor are provided, the duty
being imposed, except where the statutes otherwise provide,
of using only a licensed Virginia; pilot if the services of a pilot
are taken. Virginia Code of 1887, §§ 1963, 1965, 1966, 1978
and 1900. Reference is madQ in the brief of counsel for the
defendant in error to Virginia colonial legislation, (1775),
imposing compulsory pilotage on vessels inward bound from
sea through the capes, accompanied with the statement, which
is unchallenged, that from that time to the present date there
has been no period when compulsory pilotage regulations of a
like nature have not prevailed in Virginia. The contentions
of the plaintiff in error arising on this record'assail the validity
of the pilotage laws now in force. The controversy thus
arose.
In August, 1902, the schooner William Neely, engaged in
the coastwise trade between New England and Virginia,
Abram P Thompson, master, when bound in from sea to
Norfolk, was offered by Joseph J Darden, a licensed Virginia
pilot, his services, which were declined. Thereupon Darden,
the pilot, sued Thompson, the master, in the court of law and
chancery of Norfolk, for his pilotage charge. Thompson demurred on the ground that the Virginia statutes as to pilotage
were void because repugnant to the Constitution and laws of
the United States, for various reasons, which were specified
in the demurrer. The trial court sustained the demurrer.
Darden, taking the record to the Court of Appeals of Virginia,
applied for a writ of error, which was not a matter of right.
The court allowed the writ, heard the cause, and, for reasons
expressed in a full and careful opinion, reversed the judgment
and remanded the cause for a new trial. 101 Virginia, 635.
At the new trial Thompson reiterated, by way of offers of evidence and other proceedings, the objections which had been
expressed in the demurrer, and preserved his rights by exceptions taken to the action of the trial court which adjudged

THOMPSON v.- DARDEN
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court

against him. He then carried the record to the Court of
Appeals "and applied for a writ of error, which was refused,
and thereupon this writ was sued out.
In the argument at bar seven grounds of error are stated,
and in referring to them generally many minute suggestions
are made concerning the pilotage statutes, by way of indicating that discrimination arises from them. They mainly relate
to the statutes regulating pilotage in the internal waters.
Whilst we have given these suggestions our attention, we content ourselves with saying that we deem them to be devoid of
merit. The more so because in the written argument the
discussion is expressly limited to the first, second and fifth
grounds of alleged error. These we proceed to consider.
.st. "This statute violates Article 1, section 9, clause 6,
of the Federal Constitution, wuch provides that no preference
shall be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue to
the ports of one State over those of another." In effect this
proposition denies the power of Congress to permit the several
States to adopt pilotage regulations, despite the recognition
of that authority by Congress as early as 1789, Rev Stat. 4235,
and the repeated adjudications of this court recognizing and
upholding the practice on the subject which has obtained from
the beginning. Olsen v Smith, 195 U. S.332, and authorities
there cited.
2d. "The Virginia pilot law is in conflict with section 4237
of the United States Revised Statutes." The section in question was.quoted and commented on inOlsen v Smith, supra,
and avoids the provisions of all state regulations making 'any
discrimination in the rate of pilotage or half pilotage between
vessels sailing between the ports of one State and vessels sailing between the ports of different States, or any discrimination
against vessels- propelled in whole or in part by steam, or
against national vessels of the United States." It cannot be
said that the pilotage charge for vessels bound in and out
through the capes is in and of itself discriminatory, since it
imposes a like compulsory pilotage charge upon all vessels

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

bound in and bound out. Speaking of the requirements of
the statute, the Supreme Court of Appeals-of Virginia said m
its opinion m this case:
"By the provisions of the sections of the Code quoted all
vessels (except coastwise vessels with a pilot license) inward
bound from the sea to Smith's Point, Yorktown, Newport News
or Norfolk, or any intermediate point, and all such vessels
outward bound to the sea from.Smith's Point, Yorktown, Newport News, or Norfolk, or any intermediate point, are subject
to the compulsory regulations and rates therein provided.
All vessels are subject to the same regulations, and, under the
same circumstances and conditions, are required to pay the
same fees."
The arguments made to support the assertion that the pilot
laws conflict with the act of Congress are twofold. First. As
the State of Virginia has no appreciable commerce from her
own ports inward bound through the capes, therefore there is
discrimiation. Second. As Virginia has chosen by her legislation not to -subject commerce on her internal waters to a
compulsory charge for pilozage, therefore there is a discrumation in favor of commerce on the internal waters of Virginia
and against commerce bound in and out through the capes
from and to the sea. In other words, the proposition is-that
the State of Virginia was without power to make an undiscrimiating regulation as to pilotage for ships bound in and
out through the capes, unless a like regulation was made
applicable to all the internal waters within the State. This
is attempted to be sustained by contending that the navigation of the internal waters of Vii'fgma is more tortuous than
is the navigation in and out of the capes, and other suggestions
of a kindred nature.
But the unsoundness of the proposition is made manifest
from its mere statement. In effect, it but denies the power
of Virginia to regulate pilotage, and presupposes that courts
are vested with authority to avoid the pilotage regulations
adopted by the States, which -do not discriminate as to com-

HARDING v. HARDING.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

merce to which they apply, simply because it Aq deemed they
are unwise or unjust. As pointed out in Olsen v Smith, an
objection based on the assumed injustice of a pilotage regulation does not involve the power to make the regulation. Objections of this character, therefore, if they be meritorious,
but concern the power of Congress to exercise the ultimate
authority vested in it on the subject of pilotage.
3d. "The pilot law violates section 4236 of the Revised
Statutes, which provides: 'The master of any vessel coming
into or going out of any port situate upon waters which are
the boundary between two States, may employ any pilot duly
licensed or authorized by the law of either of the States bounded
on such waters, to pilot the vessel to or from such port.' "
It is said that whilst it may be difficult to say that the waters
of the Chesapeake Bay between the capes- constitute a boundary, still it is possible to so conclude. We observe concerning
this contention that it does not appear to have been raised
in the courts below It is accompanied with no suggestion that
the State of Maryland has ever attempted to regulate pilotage
between the capes of Virginia, to which the Virginia statute
relates, or that any Maryland pilot offered his services. The
proposition, therefore, rests upon a series of mere conjectures,
which we cannot be called upon to investigate or decide.
Judgment affirmed.

HARDING v. H-ARDING.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GALIFORNIA.
No. 2.

Argued April 20,1905.-Declded Way 15,1905.

Pursuant to the statutes of Illinois, a wife living apart from her husband,
both being citizens of Illinois, sued for separate maintenance alleging that
she was so living on account of the husband's cruelty and adultery and
without any fault on her part. The suit was contested, and, after much
evidence had been taken, the husband filed a paper admitting that the

evidence sustained the wife's contention, and consenting to a decree pro-

