LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. WEST COAST CO. 483
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

where that corporation was doing business within that State,
Pennsylvama Lumbermen's &c. Co. v Meyer, 197 U S. 407,
yet such service is insufficient for a court to acquire jurisdiction
over the corporation where the company was not doing any
business in the State, and was situated like this company at
the time of the service upon the treasurer. Conley v Mathwson Alkali Works, 190 U S. 406.

The order of the Circuit Court was right, and is
Affirmed.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAI) COMPANY
v. WEST COAST NAVAL STORES COMI'ANY
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF A'I'EALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 225. Submitted April 25, 1905.-Decided May 29, 190.
A common carrier may agree with such other carrier as it may choose to
forward beyond its own line goods it has transported to its terminus;
and, if it has adequate terminal facilities-at a sea port, sufficient for all
freight destined for that place, it is not obliged to allow other and com-peting carriers to load and discharge at a wharf owned by it and ereqted
for facilitating the transportation of through freight to points beyond
that place.
The fact that a wharf is built by a railroad company on what might be the
extension of a publiq street,. under permissions of the municipality, does
not, in the absence of express stipulations, make it a public wharf, or
affect the company's right of sole occupancy, or power of regiflation,
thereof.

CERTIORARI

to the Circuit Court of Appeals for-the Fifth

Circuit to review a judgment of that court affirming one in
favor of the West Coast Na al Stores Company (hereinafter
called the plaintiff), against the Railroad Company (hereinafter called the defendant), for damages for refusing to permit
the plaintiff to use the wharf of defendant at Pensacola for the

OCTOBER TERMI,. 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

transportation of plaintiff's property, as stated in the declaration.
The action was brought m the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Florida.
The plaintiff's declaration contains two counts, which are
substantially the same, and it is tlierem averred that the plaintiff is a citizen of Florida and the defendant is a citizen of
Kentucky, and that the latter is a common carrier, and carries
goods into Pensacola over its railroad, and among them the
goods of the plaintiff. The course of business between the
two companies has been for the plaintiff to obtain transportation of its turpentine and rosin from its yard near Pensacola,
and its warehouse in that city, by means of a switch, built for
that purpose by the defendant, to defendant's main line, and
thence to the wharf of defendant (which plaintiff alleged was
a public wharf), by means of the cars and upon the railroad
of the defendant. The wharf extended into the bay of Pensacola, and was used by defendant (and by persons bringing goods
over the defendant's railway to and into Pensacola) for the
purpose of shipping such goods from the wharf to vessels
destined for other ports. After defendant had transported the
goods of the plaintiff to the wharf of defendant, the plaintiff
had been accustomed to ship to other ports by vessels, with the
managers of which plaintiff had contracts of carriage; that in
the midst of the prosecution of such business -defendant had
motified plaintiff .that it would thereafter refuse, and it did
thereafter refuse, to allow p ,amtiff to transport its goods to.
the wharf. for the purpose of there loading them on such vessels
as above mentioned, and refused to permit the wharf 'and railway of defendant to be used in the prosecution of plaintiff's
business, in so far as the prosecution would involve the use of
the vessels chosen by the plaintiff for the shipment of the goods
from Pensacola, to the damage of te plaintiff, as set forth in
the declaration.
The defendant filed several pleas to this declaration and the
plaintiff demurred to them, which demurrer was overruled

LOUISVILLE &c. R. P.. CO. v. WEST COAST CO. 485
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

by the Circuit Court. Upon writ of error the Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed that judgment. 121 Fed. Rep. 645,
and when the case came down the defendant withdrew all
former pleas and filed in the Circuit Court another plea, as
follows:
"The defendant, withdrawing all former pleas, pleads to the
first and second counts of the declardtion as follows:
". 'That the defendant has adequate depots and yards in
the city of Pensacola for the receipt and delivery of all merchandise committed to it for transportation to, and delivery
at, Pensacola. That neither its charter nor any statutory
law has compelled or required, or compels or requires it to
construct or maintain the wharf mentioned in the declaration,
but that it constructed the same at an expense to it of tens
of thousands of dollars, for the purpose of providing facilities
for the transaction of its business with such vessels as it might
permit to come to and lie at said wharf to take cargo. That
no business has ever been done at said wharf except the transportation by the defendant in cars on its railroad over said
wharf to and from vessels lying at the said wharf, of goods
brought, or to be transported, by said vessels and the loading
and unloading thereat of such vessels. That in accordance
with such purpose it made and promulgated, upon the construction of said wharf, and more than five years prior to the
bringing of this suit, rules and regulations, by which it limited
the use of its wharves, including the wharf mentioned in the
declaration, 'to traffic handled by vessels in regular lines running in connection with the Louisville and Nashville Railroad,
and vessels belonging to, or consigned to, Gulf Transit Company' (an agency of defendant), and making the use of said
wharves 'for traffic in connection with vessels other than
herein referred to,' 'subject to special arrangement.' The said
rules and regulations were in operation and enforced by defendant from the time of their promulgation, as aforesaid, up
to, and at the time of, the refusal of the defendant to permit
the naval stores of the plaintiff to be loaded from its wharf

OCTO3ER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

into the 'certain vessels' mentioned in the declaration, and
still are in force and operation. That the said 'certain vessels' were not regular lines running in connection with the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad, nor were they belonging to,
or consigned to, Gulf Transit Company, nor had they made
any special arrangements with the defendant for the use of the
said wharf, but that said vessels constituted an independent
line between New York and Pensacola, and New York, and
Mobile, Alabama, carrying merchandise between the said
points, and would have come in competition with a line of
steamers with which the defendant was then negotiating for
regular service in the transportation of merchandise to and
from New York and Pensacola in connection, and under traffic
arrangements, with defendant, and such service has since been
established, and a line of steamers is now regularly transporting merchandise between said points in such connection, and
under such traffic arrangements; and was also in competition
with the defendant itself, which was, at said time, and had
been for a long time prior thereto, engaged in a like business
between said points, carrying goods by its line of railroad from
Pensacola and Mobile to River Junction, Florida, Cincinnati,
Ohio, and Montgomery, Alabama, and there delivering the
same to a connecting carrier and other carriers connecting
therewith, transporting goods to the city of New York, and
receiving from said connecting carriers at the points aforesaid,
and transporting to Pensacola and Mobile, goods shipped from
New York to Pensacola and Mobile.
"That the defendant has not either notified plaintiff, that
itwould not carry plaintiff's naval stores nor refused to transport plaintiff's naval stores over, its railway mentioned in the
declaration, to and on its wharf also mentioned in the declaration, that it has at all times so transported them when requested so to do by the plaintiff, that the defendant has refused
to permit the certain vessels r wntioned in the declaration to take
goods and merchandise from it-, said wharf to be transported
by them to the port of Nev York, as aforesaid, but that such

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. r
198 U. S.

WEST COAST CO. 487

Statement of the Case.

refusal was solely because the said vessels were not of either
of the classes provided for by the rules aforesaid, nor had made
special arrangements With the defendant, and would have been,
as aforesaid, in competition with the lines of vessels connecting
with the defendant, running to and from New York, and was,
as aforesaid, in competition with the defendant itself in its
rail transportation aforesaid to and from New York city; and
that the defendant was then, and at all times had been, ready
and willing to give, and did give, to the plaintiff the.same
facilities for shipping naval stores to New York, pr any other
port, over defendant's said wharf, as it gave to any and all
other shippers; that the unloading by the plaintiff of its said
goods into said vessels necessarily involves the lying at, attachment to and use of the said wharf, one of the terminals of the
defendant, by the said vessels; that the said wharf was not at
the time mentioned in the declaration, and has never been, a
public wharf, unless the facts set forth hereinbefore in this plea
constituted it such."
This plea was in substance the same as the third plea, which
defendant had theretofore interposed and which the -Circuit
Court of Appeals had held bad. The plaintiff again demurred.
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, in accordance with.
the decision of ihe Circuit Court of Appeals, and gave leave to
the defendant to amend as it might be advised. The defendant refused to amend. Judgment was then entered against it
by default and direction given to proceed with the case for the
purpose of having plaintiff's damages assessed. A trial by
jury upon the question of damages was had, and the jury
found a verdict for the plaintiff for one thousand d6llars, upon
which judgment was duly entered.
The defendant then sued out a writ of error to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which court, adhering
to the views expressed by it on the former appeal, affirmed the
judgment, 128 Fed. Rep. 1020, and the defendant thereupon
applied to this court for a writ of certiorari, which was granted,
and the case is now here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

198 U. S.

Mr W A. Blount and Mr A. C. Blount, Jr., for plaintiff
in error*
Plaintiff in error affirms and defendant m error denies that
a railroad company which has provided ample facilities for
tie delivery by it of all freight committed to it for transportation to, and delivery at, a city on the seaboard, can, when not
compelled by statute or charter, construct a wharf, place
tracks thereon, connect them with its tracks leading thereto,
and transport freight over such track for all persons alike and
have the right to permit to come to such wharf, for the purpose of removing such freight, only such vessels as may run
m regular lines m connection with it, or such as may come
under special arrangements with it, and to refuse such wharf
facilities to vessels whiih would come in competition with it,
or with lines of steamers running in connection with it.
The railway company is not under the circumstances of this
case a common carrier as to its wharf.
A railroad company may restrict itself to carrying passengers,
as m the case of inter-urban trolley lines; it may decline. to
carry dogs, Dwkson v Gt.. Nor Ry., L. R. 18 Q. B. 176, or
coals, Oxlade v N E. R. R. Co. (No. 2), 1 Nev & Mac. 162;
S. C., 15 C. B., N. S. 680; Johnson v Midland Ry. Co., 4 Exe.
(W., H. & G.) 367, or money, Hosea v McCrory, 12 Alabama,
349; Whitemore v Caroline, 20 Missouri, 513, or cattle, Lake
Shore &c. v Perkins, 25 Michigan, 329.
Or any other article of transportation, which may be sufficiently differentiated from articles actually carried by it as
to be reasonably put into a distinct class. It may devote
portions of its facilities to its own use, or to the use of particular individuals, and thus refuse to be a common carrier as to
those facilities. The mere fact that they belong to it or are
used by it in connection with transportation does not subject
them to the common use of the public. People v Spruance,
67 Illinois, 437, Citizens' Bank v Nantucket Steamboat Co., 2
Story, 33, Garton -v Railway Co., 1 Best & Sm. 112, 162;
Hutchinson on Carriers, 75.

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. WEST COAST CO. 489
198 U.S.

Argument for -Plamtiffm Error.

One common carrier has not, independent of charter- or
eontract, the right to use the terminals of another carrier.
Atchson, T & S. F R. R. Co. v Denver & New Orleans Ry.
Co., 110 U S. 667, Gulf, C. & S. F Ry. v Miam?. S. S. Co.,
"86 Fed. Rep. 407, "416, Little Rock &c. R. R. Co. v St. Louss &
Lev. Ry. Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 775, Little Rock &c. R. R. Co. v
St. Lotis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 59 Fed. Rep. 404;-St. Louis
Dra/age Co. v. L..& N R. R. Co., 65 Fed. Rep. 39; Kentucky
& I. B. Co. v L. & N R. R. Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 567, 628, Ore.
Short ine &c. v Nor Pac. R. R. Co., 51 Fed: Rep. 465, 475,
lwaco Ry. & Nay. Co. v Ore. Short ine &c., 57 Fed. Rep.
673. The law is the same in England. See Naper v. Glasgow and S. W Ry. Co., 1 Nev & Mac. 292.
The principles of this case are covered by the decisions
which trea, of the right of a railway company to discruninate between draymen, hackmen., etc., desiring to use the
depot and like facilities of the railroad. While such decisions
are in conflict, the vast weight of them is m favor of the
right of the carrier to select from the persons desiring such
facilities, one or more with-whom it can make agreements
agreeable to it, and refuse to permit the others the use of such
facilities. Among the numerous cases upholding this contention in both state and Federal courts see Jencks v Coleman, 2
Sumner, 221, Barker v Midland Ry. Co., 18 C. B. 46, S. C.,
86 E. C. L. R. 45, Beadell v Eastern Counties Ry. Co., 2 C. B.
(N. S.) 509; S. C., 89 E. .0. L. R. 509; Painterv London &c.
Ry. Co., 2 C. B. (N. S.) 702; S. C., 89 E. C. L. R. 701, Barney
v Oyster Bay Steamboat Co., 67 N. Y 301, Barney v D R.
Martin, 11 Blatch. 534, Old Colony R. Co. v Trnpp, 147 Massachusetts, 35, Commonwealth v Carey, 147 Massachusetts, 40;
Fluker v Georgsa Ry. Co., 81 Georgia, 461, Grswold v Webb,
16 R. I. 649; Smith v N Y., L. E. & W R. Co., 149 Pa. St.
249; N Y Cent. R. Co. v Flinn, 74 Hun, 124, N Y Cent.
Ry. Co. v Sheeley, 27 N. Y Supp. 185, Brown v N Y Cent.
Ry. Co., 75 Hun, 355, Summit v State, 76 Tennessee, 413;
Lucas v Herbert, 148 Indiana, 64, N Y R. R. Co. v Scoville,

OCTOB1ER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

19S U. S.

71 Connecticut, 136,-K ates v Cab Co., 107 Georgia, 636,
Godbout v.. St. Paul Union Depot, 79 Minnesota, 188, N Y.
Cent. R. Co, v Warren, 64 N. Y Supp. 781, Boston & Albany
R. Co. v Brown, 177 Massachusetts, 65, Boston & /fa'neR.
Co. v Sullivan, 177 Massachusetts, 230; N Y &c.R. Co. v
Bork, 2 R. I. 49.
1 There is no charge in the declaration that the railway company discriminated against the plaintiff or the public.
Plaintiff has no cause-of action unless it be law that it
can sue for the deprivation of an alleged right of the vessels by which deprivation it has not been m the slightest
'injured.
It is especially true that one competing common carrier has
.not, independent of statute or contract, the right to use the
terminals of another, carrier.
The right of a railroad company to discriminate to the
extent of. protecting itself is fully Tecognized by this court.
See Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v Interstate.Com. Com., 162 U. S. 197
It is ik1so especially true that one common carrier has not,
independeri. of statute or contract, the right to use the wharf
ofanother carrier.
A railroad company performs its whole duty to the public
at large and to each individual when it affords the public
-all reasonable accommodations. If this is done the railroad
c6mpany owes no duty to the public as to the particular
agencies it shall select for that purpose. Express Cases, 117
U.. S. 1, 24, C., St. L. & N 0 lRy. Co. v Pullman Co., 139
U S 79; St. Lou?s Drayage Co. v,L. & N R. R. Co., 65 Fed.
Rep. 39.
Even if the wharf had been a public one the railroad company had a right to discontinue its public use at any time and
refuse to let any particular individual use it. O'Neil v Annett,
27 N. J Law, 290; Heany v .Heeny, 2 Den. 625, Bogart v
ifagl t, 20 Barb. 251, The Mary K. Campbell, 31 Fed. Rep.
840; Steamboat Co. v Transportatwn Co., 28 Florida, 433,
distinguished.

LO.UISVILLP &c. R. R. CO. v. WEST COAST 00. 491
198 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

Mr John C. Avery for respondent:
The wharf is either a public wharf or it is so located and
used that the public have a right to have goods intended for
shipment by water beyond Pensacola carried thereto and
have ships moored thereat and take on the goods.
The gravamen of the case is not that the railway company
would transport the .goods on its lines but that it would not
permit the goods to be at, from or by means of, the wharf
loaded on vessels other than those of the railway company
The case is not covered by ยง 3 of the interstate commerce act.
What is involved here is terminal facilities, not within the
interstate commerce act, but merely a public toll or -chargenot only reasonable, but necessary This must be enforced
by, and subject to, some law, and, in the absence of congressional legislation, there is no law except that of the State.
The application of state law in such cases is not mconsistent
with the general power conferred upon, Congress, and does not
introduce into commerce either confusion or restraint.
As the case is not within the operation of the interstate commerce act, the common law must govern in determining the
rights of the parties. Under this the right of plaintiff is clear.
As to whether there is a national common law applicable in
the Federal courts see W U Tel. Co. v Call Pub. Co., 181
U. S. 101. And see Steamboat Co. v Transportation Co.,
28 Florida, 433, Ore. Short Line v I. R. M. Co., 51 Fed. Rep.
611, but see I. R. M. Co. v Ore. Short Lzne, 57 Fed. Rep.
673.
The wharf was operated by the railroad company, not asa private wharf, but for use not only by the boats operated
by it and the Gulf Transit Company, but also by all persons
with whom the railroad company should see fit to make
"special arrangements." That is, it appears that the wharf
was not a private but a public wharf; it was used, not only in
the private business of the railroad company, but as a facility
im the navigable waters of the Bay of Pensacola, in aid of
commerce engaged in by the Louisville & Nashville Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

Oonpany an4 by the Gulf Transit Company, and by all the
rest of the public.
It is perfectly obvious that the course of the company was
to give to a very large portion of the public the right to use
its wharf, with the result that such wharf became a facility
m which the public, as a public, had become interested in such
manner and to such extent as to deprive the defendant of the
right to claim that it was a private wharf, in the operation of
which the public were not entitled to insist that equal privileges
were to be accorded.to all persons requiring them m their respective btsmneses. Munn v llinoss, 94 U. S. 125. See
Hale's De Portibus Mans, under "Ferries;" Dutton v Strong,
1 Black, 33"; Gould on Waters, 231, 1 Dillon Mun. Corp. ยง 68,
Compton v Hawkins, 8 So. Rep. 75, Barnngton v Commercua Dock Co., 45 Pac. Rep. 748, The Express .Co. Cases can
be distinguished;
MR. JusTiCE PEcKEAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

When this case was first before the Circuit Court of Appeals
it was stated m the opinion which was then delivered that the
case showed that.the railroad company was in possession of
a large wharf, built at its own expense, "on the extension of
a public street in the city of Pensacola into the deep waters of
the harbor of the- city." Qn looking at the record before us
we find m the pleadiigs no averment that the wharf in question was m fact built as such an extension. The statement of
facts preceding the opinion of the Circuit Cou;t of Appealsshows, however, that there were replications filed to the
various pleas, one of which replications contained the averment that the wharf was an extension of a street of the city
of Pensacola into the bay of Pensacola for a -distance of more
thani five hundred yards, all within the.limits of the city of
Pensacola, and maintained by the-defendant by authority of
the city Hence the statement in the opinion was perfectly

'LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. WEST COAST CO. 493
198 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

correct. Subsequently to the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and after the case was remanded to the Circuit Court,
it appears by the record before us that the, defendant withdrew all its former pleas and filed the single plea set forth in
the foregoing statement of facts. To this plea no replication
was filed. Counsel for the plaintiff admits that neither the
declaration nor the plea contains any averment that the wharf
in question was an extension of a public street. If we assume,
what is without doubt the fact, that the wharf was built at tle
foot of a public street in the city of Pensacola and was carried
out into the deep water of the bay some hundreds of yards, we
must also assume the fact mentioned in the brief of the defendant, and substantially set forth m the former replication,
that the building and maintaining of the wharf were authorized
by authority from the city of Pensacola and also from the
State of Florida. These facts will therefore be taken as admitted, in order that the case may be discussed upon the
facts as they really exist.
Counsel for plaintiff now asserts, and we assume, that the
gravamen of plaintiff's complaint is, not that the defendant
would not transport plaintiff's goods, or any part of them, on.
defendant's lines, from the wharf in question, "but only that
defendant would not permit plaintiff's goods to be at, from or
by means of defendant's wharf loaded upon, or delivered to,
the said vessels," with the managers of which plaintiff had
contracted to have its goods transported to other ports. This
means of transportation, by such vessels as plaintiff should
choose, is asserted by it as a right, because it contends that
the wharf of defendant, under the averment to that effect in
the declaration and not denied, in terms, in the plea, taken
in connection with the facts stated in such plea, was a public
wharf, or that, at least, the defendant had devoted it to a
public use. The defendant in its plea sets up facts which it
avers show that the wharf was not a public one. The plaintiff
insists that the plea shows that the defendant built and used
the wharf itself and permitted a large part of the public to

OCTOBER TERM. 1904.
Opimoh of the Court.

198 U. S.

use it, including, at any rate, those who were engaged intraffic
handled by vessels belonging to regular lines running in connection with the defendant, and also including vessels belonging or consigned to the-Gulf Transit.Company, an agent of
defendant, together with 'those who were using the wharf
under some specil1. arrangements, between them and the defendant. All this, the plaintiff contends, amounted- to making
the wharf a publicpne, or at least that it thereby became a
fEcility, to -the use of which the public as a public had a right
on payment of reasonable compensation. If plaintiff chose to
employ, for the further transportation of its goods, the vessels
with the managers of which the defendant had some business
arrangement or contract, it is not denied that the defendant
would and dicj permit such transp.ortation. In this respect
there -is no allegation hat the plaintiff did not have equal
facilities with all other.shippers. Defendant's plea avers that
it did give to plaintiff the same facilitieg for shipping its goods
over dfendant's wharf that it gave to any. or all shippers. In
brief, 'the fact seems 'to be that the only complaint of the
plaintiff is that defendant will not peirmit competing vessels
to make usp of its wharf 'for the purpose of such competition.
Wd do not see that the fact that the wharf was erected under
authority from the city, at the foot of a public. street of the
city, makes any material -difference in the character of the
wharf or that the right of plaintiff to select its own vessels to
continue from that wharf the transportation of its goods is on
that ground enhanced, or the right of defendant to control the
wharf for its own use when erected-is thereby diminished. The
right to erect the wharf was granted by the proper authorities,
and so far as the record shows, it was granted without imposing
any conditions as to its use by tlte public. We think the plaintiff had no right of access to 'the wharf founded simply upon
the fact that it was erected under proper authority, in the
harbor of Pensacola and At the foot of one of the public streets
of that.city The question of the rights of plaintiff must reallj

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. WEST COAST CO. 495
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

turn upon the character of the use of the wharf, whether it is
public or private.
The argument upon the part of plaintiff is in substance this:
True, defendant has erected a wharf, which is not in fact intended or used as the terminus of its road at Pensacola, adequate yards and depots having been furnished by the defendant for all goods and -passengers destined to Pensacola only;
but the wharf has been erected to enable defendant to more
conveniently carry out contracts for transportation beyond
its, own line, which it was not compelled to make, and which
it could carry out by such agencies as it chose, but the plaintiff, having goods destined for points outside of Florida,. insists
upon its right to use the road of-defendant, not to carry these
goods to Pensacola, but to defendant's wharf, so that plaintiff
may there transfer them into vessels which it has arranged to
take them, in order to do this it is necessary that defendant be
compelled to share its possession of its own wharf, with the
managers of these other vessels; for this possession plaintiff is
prepared to make reasonable compensation. This right on
the part of the plaintiff is urged as the result of the action of
defendant in permitting the use of the wharf as stated in the
plea. By such use it is contended that the defendant in effect
dedicated the wharf to the public, or at least has granted to
the public an interest in the use of the wharf.
We are of opinion that the wharf was not a public one, but
that it was a mere facility, erected by and belonging to defendant, and used by it, in connection with that part of its
road forming an extension from its regular depot and yards
in Pensacola, to the wharf, for the purpose of more conveniently procuring the transportation of goods beyond its own
line, and that defendant need not share such facility with
the public or with any carriers other than those it chose fo
the purpose of effecting such further transportation.
Neither the public nor the plaintiff had such an interest in
the wharf as would give to either the right to demand its use
on payment of reasonable hire. Nor was -the wharf a. depot

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

193 U. S.

or place of storage of the defendant for goods, to be delivered
at or taken from tne city of Pensacola for transportation by
rail. The defendant had .adequate depots and yards m that
city for the proper storage of all merchandise committed to it
for delivery at Pensacola, or there received, to be transported
therefrom by defendant. All consignees of goods at Pensacola had equal facilities for obtaining them there. Although
not bound originally to carry goods -beyond its own terminus
at Pensacola, ydt the d6fendant miglit agree to do *so, and it
had the-right, when duly authorized by the proper authorities,.
to construct facilities to enable it to continue such transportation beyond the line .of its railroad, by such other carriers as
it might agree with. The city or state authorities in granting
the right to erect such facilities might, of course, have attached
such conditions as they thought wise, but in their absence
neither the public nor this plaintiff, as the owner of goods,
would have the right, on this state of facts, to go to the wharf
with vessels for the purpose of continuing transportation of'
goods in competition with the. defendant. The defendant
never became a common carrier, as to this.wharf, in the sense
that it was bound to accord to the public or to plaintiff a right
to use it upon payment of compensation. We do not see that
the plaintiff had any right..even to demand that the defendant
should carry plaintiff's goods on the rails defendant had laid
down to reach the wharf from its depot or yards at Pensacola,
the terminus of its road at that city Those -rails were only
laid for the purpose of reaching the wharf, in order that defendant might carry goods to it which it had undertaken to
forward, by itself or by vessels it had arranged with, beyond
its line. Very likely it would be bound to .carry plaintiff's
,goods on this part of its rails, for the same purpose and on the
same terms it did-for others, viz., in order that it might itself,
or through othets it had contraoted. with, forward the goods
beyond its own line. But plaintiff demands more than this;
it demands that defendant shall carry plaintiff's goods over its
rails thus laid, in order .that plaintiff may itself forward its

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. WEST COAST .CO. 497
198 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

goods by vessels of its own selection, and that defendant shall
surrender possession of enough of its wharf t o enable plaintiff
to do so.
That the defendant'-had the right to choose its own agencies,
and grant to them the exclusive privilege of access to its own
wharf, which it built only for the purpose 6f continuing the
transportation of.goods which it had transported to the end
of its line, has in effect been decided by this court. Atchtson
&c. R. R Co. v Denver & New Orleans R. R. Co., 110 U. S.
667. In that case it was held that, although at common law
the common carrier was not bound to carry beyond its own
lines, yet it might contract to do so, and in the absence of
statutory regulations prohibiting it the carrier might determine for itself what agencies it would employ to continue the
transportation, and it was not bound to enter into agreements
for each transportation with another because it had -done so
with one common earner. Having the right, as the authorities prove, .to decide what agencies it woild employ for the
purpose of transporting goods beyond its own line, and not
being bound to .enter into any contracts or arrangements with
one person or carrier because it had so contracted or arranged
with another, we think it follows that defendant was not
obliged to permit the public to htave access t6 its .wharf, built
for"the purpose stated, simply because. it granted such permission to those with vhom it maa6 arrangements of the kind
set forth in the plea. While refusing to make any agreement
with defendant for the further transportation of plaintiff's
goods beyond PensacolA, plaintiff nevertheless claims a right
to use the wharf erected by defendant for its own purpose, as
already stated. This cannot- be sustained. The principle
stated in the above case is in sfstance recognized in Gulf &c.
Ry. Co. v Miamt, S. S. Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 407, Little Rock &c.
Ry. Co. v St. Louts &c. Ry. CV., 63 Fed. Rep. 775, affirming
same case in 59 Fed. Rep. 400.. The two last cqses involved
the construction of the Interstate .Commerce Act, but they
affirm the principle that a common carrier may agree with
VOL. CXCVII-32

498.

OCTOBER TERI, 1904.
Opinon of the Courb.

198 U. S.

such other carrier as it may choose, to forward beyond its own
line the goods which it had transported to its own terminus.
See also Central Stock Yards Co. v L. & N Railway Co., 192
U S. 568, 571, Kentucky &c. Co. v L. & N R. R. Co., 37 Fed.
Rep. 567, Oregon &c. Co. v Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 51
Fed. Rep. 465, Ilwaco &c. Co. v Oregon &c. Co., 57 Fed. Rep.
673.
The cases cited did not involve rights of parties to a wharf
situated in a harbor, but we think that the right of one carrier
to enter into arrangements with another carrier to forward its
goods, and to refuse to do so with others, or to permit such
others to avail themselves of the facilities constructed by the
original carrier for that purpose, is not altered because the
'facility so constructed by it happens to be a wharf in the
harbor of a city instead of some structure on land. The wharf
may be a private one, and its owner may permit those only
to have access to it that it may choose. A private wharf may
exist on the shores of a navigable river or lake, or in a harbor
of a city from which access is obtained directly to the sea.
Dutton v Strong, 1 Black, 23, 32.
It is to be remembered that the wharf was not'in strictness
the terminus .of defendant for unloading its goods for Pensacola. The defendant had other depot; and yards for that
purpose. The main use of the wharf was only for the purpose
of sending the goods brought by defendant, to other ports as
a continuation of their carriage beyond the lines of the defendant's road. How much space, if any, it might devote to other
vessels, with the managers of which it might make special arrangements, would naturally be for the defendant to decide,
as also the particular terms of such arrangements. The conveniences of the wharf are, of course, necessarily limited.
It is well said by. counsel for defendant in their brief that
"The very nature of a wharf and its inadequacy to meet the
demands of every mcomimg vessel necessitates that its use
should be exclusively for those with whom the carrier enters
into arrangements. The carrier has a right to select a strong

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. WEST COAST CO. 499
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

connection instead of a weak one, one that will giv'e assurance
of permanent business, instead of one that can offer. only occasional shipment. If the free use is incompatible with the
certain regular use by the steamer, or lines of steamers, with
which the carrier is aligned, it is too clea: for further reasonmg that such carrier has the right to accept the latter and
thereby exclude the former."
The reasons for permitting such use of the wharf are manifold. Without it the commerce of the country in the large
cities would be cramped, if not very greatly damaged, by the
uncertainty of finding quarters for .the regular and swift unloading and loading of the vessels. But the capacity of -a
wharf is necessarily limited, and if the ,wharf were open, to all
comers in their turn there could be no certainty as to any
particular vessels being able to reach the wharf at any definite
time, and consequently there would be a like uncertainty as to
when such vessel would be able to depart with its load. One,
unexpected, so-called, tramp vessel might, by arriving a few
hours in advance, take possession of all that was left of the
wharf for the purpose of loading, and thus prevent the regular
steamer, arriving a little later, from coming to the dock, tnloading its cargo, and then loading with goods from the railroad. In this way there would be confusion in time and. in
the possession of the wharf by the different vessels, and its
value for the purpose for which it was erected would be greatly
reduced, if not wholly destroyed.
The principle herein recognized has also been affirmed by -this
court in what 'are known as the Express Co. Cases, 117 U P. 1,
where it was held (because the facilities were necessarily limited) that railroad companies had theright to contract -with
particular express companies for the transportation of the
traffic of the latter over the lines of their railroads, and that
the railroad company was not bound to transport the traffic
the same
of independent express companies over its lines in.
manner in which it transported the traffic of the particular
companies contracted with, in other words, that the railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

companies were not bound to furnish, in the absence of a
statute, to all independent express companies, equal facilities
for doing an express business upon their passenger trams.
These observations answer the contention of plaintiff that
defendant, by erecting the wharf and using it in the way it
does, has thereby devoted its property to a public use, and
that it has thereby granted to the public an interest in such
use, within the principle laid down in Munn v Illinos, 94
U. S. 113. It has not devoted its wharf to the use of the
public in so far as to thereby grant to every vessel the right to
occupy its private property upon making compensation to
defendant for the exercise of such right. The reasons we have
already endeavored to give.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals and of the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Florida are reversed,
and the case remanded to the latter court for further proceedings not inconsistent, with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissents.

AH SIN v. WITTMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT IN AND FOR THE CITY AND
COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 245. Submitted April 28,1905.-DecIded May 29,1906.
Where the petitioner contends that a crimmal-law of the State is unconstitutional because it denies a class to which he belongs the equal protection of the law, not on the ground that it is unconstitutional on its
face, or discriminatory in tendency and ultimate actual operation, but
because it is made so by the manner of its administration, in being
enforced exclusively against such class, it is a matter of proof and no
latitude of intention will be indulged, and it is not sufficient to simply

