TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DASHIELL.
198 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. DASHIELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

lo, 212. Argued April 11, 190.-Decided May 2, 1905.
An employd of a railroad company executed a release which, after recitini
that he had been injured in an accident, and that it was desirable 'to
maintain pleasant relations, and avoid all controversy in the matter,
and specifying certain slight bodily injuries including a scalp wound,
released the company for a consideration of thirty dollars from all "claims
and demands of every kind whatsoever for or on account of the injuries
sustained in the manner and on the occasion aforesaid;"-subsequently
after having remained in the company's employ about three months, he
sued and obtained a verdict for permanent bodily and mental injuries,
resulting from injuries not enumerated in the release, including a fracture of the skull; there was testimony going to show that the fracture
was not known when the release was executed and that the permanent
disability resulted from non-enumerated injuries. The trial court charged
that the release related only to damages sustained by the enumerated
injuries and not to those sustained from the non-enumerated injuries.
Held, not error and that:
General words in a release are to be limited and restrained to the-particular
words in the recital; and the release in this case, not being for all injuries but only for the particular ones specified, was not a bar to a recovery for damages resulting from the non-enumerated mjuries and that
the application of this rule is not affected by the words "avoid all con"troversy in regard to the matter" as those words did not relate to the
accident but to the specified injuries.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. David D. Duncan, with whom Mr John F Dillon and
Mr Winslow S. Pierce were on the brief, for plaintiff m error"
The release on its face was intended by the parties-to apply
not only to injuries then known, but to such as might develop
thereafter.
The construction put upon the release by the trial. judge is
an error which works serious injustice, and defeats the inten-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

198 U. S.

tion of the parties. Union Pacific 4 Artist, 60 Fed. Rel'.
365, distinguished, Greene v, Ch. & N W R. R. Co., 92 Fed.
Rep. 873,-880.
As a general principle of construction, applicable to all
releases, while mistakes of fact may be sufficient to avoid a
release, ignorance of future effects of an injury does not render
the instrument inoperative or void. Curner v Bilger, 149
Pa. St. 109; Kane v. Traction Co., 186 Pa. St. 145, Eccles v.
Union Pacific Ry. Co. 7 Utah, 335, Nelson v Minneapolis
St. Ry.,. 61 Minnesota, 167, Shooks v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co.,
115'Fed. Rep. 57, Chs. & Y W Ry. "Co.v Wilcox, 116 Fed.
Rep. 913.
Since -the judgment in this case was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, the law in Texas, where the cause of action
"arose, has been -settled in favor of the railroad company by
the'Supreme Court of that State. Quebe v Gulf, C & S. F.
R. R. Co.. 10 Tex. C. Rep. 296, S. C., 81 S. W. Rep. 20.
JMr Ben. M. Terrell for defendant m error, as to the effect
of the release:
Where there are general words alone in a release they shall
be taken most strongly against a releasor; but where there is
a particular recital, and theri general words follow, the general
words shall be qualified by the particular recital.
If the terms and.expressions of an instrument are such as
to render it. uncertain to the court as to what was the true
intention of the parties 'in the'use of such terms and expressions, then the court should hear testimony touching the matters to which said instrument relates and give the instrument
such a- construction as -will obviate any latent ambiguity
therer and'express the real intention of the parties at the time
of its execution, and to- ascertain what was contemplated by
.them-when such terms' and expressions were so used. Un.
Pac. Ry.v Artist, 60 Fed. Rep. 365, Railroad Co. v McCarty,
.94 Texas, 302, Raw.sden v Hylton, 2 Yesey, 304, Lumley v.
Railiayi 76 Fed. Rep. 66, 2- Parsons on Con., ed. 1855, 28;

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY CO. v. DASHIELL.
19S U. S.

Opiion of the Court.

Jackson v Stackhouse, 1 Cowan, 122; Hill v Miller, 76 N.. Y.
33, Clark v Woodruff, 83 N. Y 520; Chitty orl Con., 6th
Am. ed., 778a; Bacon's Abr. Release, K, Payler v Homevrsham, 4 M. & S. 423, Shook v Illinots Central Ry. Co., 115
Fed. Rep. 57
General words in a release are to be limited and restrained
to the particular words contained in the recital. Stonehewer
v Farrer, 14 L. J., Q. B. 122; Lyman v Clark, 9, Massachusetts, 234.
I

MR. JUSTmIE

McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was originally brought in the District Court
of Tarrant County, in the State of Texas, and removed by the
railway company to the United States Circuit Court for the
Nor.them District of Texas on the ground that the railwaycompany is a corporation under the law ofthe United States.
The trial resulted in a- verdict for the defendant in error for,
the sum of $7'500, upon which judgment was entered. It was,
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The .action was for personal injuries sustained by defendant
in error through the negligence of the railway company The
defendant in error was a conductor on one of the company's
freight trains, with which another train collided, "whereby,"
it is alleged, "plaintiff was seriously, painfully and permanently
injured in many parts of his body and especially was he so
injured in and about the head, eyes, back, sides, arms and
shoulders, and in the organs and functions of his brain and in
his entire mental and nervous system, and that as a result of
said injuries plaintiff has, since the reception thereof, now is,
and in the future will permanently be, helpless, nijured and
unsound of mind and body, and wJiolly incapable of transacting any kind of business. or of doing any kind of mental or
manual work, and that he now is and for the remainder of his
life will be. cared for and protected, if at all, by his friends and
relatives."

OCTQBER TERAI,

1904.

Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

And it is also alleged.
"That as a, result of said negligence and collision plaintiff
further says he was badly burned about the legs, sides, back,
arms, hands 'and head, and that his left eye has become seriously affected by reason of said injury thereto, and by reason
of said injury to his head and nervous system affecting said
eye, in so much that the value, use and sight of said eye is now
greatly impaired and almost entirely lost, and that the sight
of his right eye is also now- considerably weakened and impaired by reason of its sympathy for his said left eye. That
as a result of said negligence and injury plaintiff now suffers,
ha suffered and for all his life will continue to suffer great
physical pain and much mental anguish and pam."
Among other defenses plaintiff in error pleaded a release
executed by defendant in error' on the second of February,
1901; which is as follows:
"Wheieas on and prior to the.24th day of December, 1900,
I, G"H.' Dashiell, was. employed by the Texas and Pacific
'Railway Co.' as brakeman and extra freight conductor at or
near Eastland, Texas, on the said 24th day of December, 1900,
about'3.15 o'clock A. M. I'sustamed certain personal injuries
in the manner and of the character described, to the best of
my knowledge and ability, to wit:
"Extra'east eng. 189 struck caboose of extra east eng. 255,
21 miles east of Eastland, bruising my body, right leg, right
_arm, and giving me a-scalp wound.
"And, whereas, it is by said railway company and myself
mutually desirable to maintain amicable and pleasant relations and avoid all controversy in respect to said matter"Now, therefore, to that end, and in consideration of thirty
and no /100' dollars, to me now here paid in cash by said Texas
and' Pacific Railway Company, I hereby release and acquit,
..and by -these presents 'bid myself to indemnify and forever
hold harmless said Texas and Pacific Railway Company from
and" agia"inst all claims, demands, damages and liabilities, ofany and every kind or character whatsoever, for or on account-

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DASHIELL.
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

of the injuries and damages sustained by me in the manner
or upon the occasion aforesaid, and arising or accruing, or
hereafter arising or accruing, in any way therefrom.
"It is expressly understood that, although we remain as
free to contract with each other as if this transaction had not
occurred, the Texas and Pacific Railway Company has not
and does not agree to bind itself to employ me at or for any
time, or in any capacity whatsoever.
"And it is also expressly understood, that all promises and
agreements respecting or in any wise relating to the subject
hereof, are fully expressed herein and no others are made or
exist."
The plaintiff in error further pleaded that defendant in
error remained in its service and employment for about three
months, and did at said time and at all times thereafter ratify
and approve the release.and all of' its terms and provisions.
To that part of the answer which pleaded the release, defendant in error demurred, and also answered alleging that
(1) at the time of its execution and ratification, if it was ratified, he was of unsound mind, (2) he and plaintiff in error
were mistaken as to the extent of his injuries and did not
contemplate the result set out in his petition, (3) the release
was without consideration.
These defenses to the release were disposed of by the court
as follows:
"On the question of the release of the defendant from liability for the injury sustained by plaintiff you are charged that
the agreement entered into between the plaintiff and the defendant company, which has been introduced in evidence, is a
release of the defendant from liability for the particular injuries which are enumerated in the face thereof, to wit: injuries to his body, right leg, right arm and a scalp wound.
The court does not, however, construe it to be a release for
thd injuries alleged to hove been received by him resulting m
the impaired mental powers, and in the partial loss of sight
in his left eye. These injuries are those for which damages

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

are sought m this action, and the consideration of which will
be submitted to you in this charge."
This intcrpretation of the release wa affirmed by the Court
of Appeals, and presents the only question in the case.
Plaintiff in error contends that the release was intended
"to be a final settlement of all claims growing out of the accident." The defendant rneerror contends that it was a settlement only of the particular mjinries enumerated.
An instantly occurring obj.ection to the contention of plaintiff in error is that if the release was a settlement of all claims
...,growing out of the accident, why enumerate the particular
injuries. The mere collision of the trams was of no consequence independent of the mjuri s which resulted, and it was
for the muries satisfaction was to be made, and satisfaction
would be measured by the visible Injuries, and because measured by them they would -be enumerated. If the accident
"alone was settled for there was a more direct way of accomplishing it.
But let us analyze the release. It commences - with the
recital of the relation of defendant in error with plaintiff m
error, and that he "sustained--certain personal injuries m the
manner and of the character described, to the best of his
knowledge and ability" Then follows, this: "Extra east
eng. 189 struck caboose of extra east eng. 255, 2 miles east
of Eastland, bruising my body, right leg, right arm, and giving
me a scalp wound." For The injuries compensation was fixed
at $30, with the additional consideration, let us say, m order
to fully exhibit the. contetition 'of plaintiff in error, of the
desire mutually entertained by him and defendant in error
amicable and
(we -quote from the release), "to main"t.
pleasant relations and av6id all controversy in respect to said
matter." Upon the word "matter" plaintiff in error puts
itq main reliance, indeed, makes it dominant of the meaning
of the release. The contention is that it refers to the accident, not to the injuries, tle latter.serving only to identify
which "was the cause of action." This is an
the accident
I

TEXAS &. PACIFIC RY CO. v. DASHIELL.
198 U. S.

527

Opinon of'the Court.

attempt to sepaxate the inseparable. The negligence of plaintiff in error caused the accident which resulted in injuries to
defendant in error and constituted his right or cause of action,
and was the matter to which the release was addressed, but
the extent of the release, whether it is confined to the injuries enumerated or includes other injuries, depends upon
the other words of the release. They are as follows:
"I hereby release and acquit and by these presents bind
myself to indemnify and forever hold harmless said Texas and
Pacific Railway Ccmpany from and against all claims, demands, damages and liabilities of any and every kind or
character what~oever, for and on account of the snyurws and
damages sustained by-me in the manner or upon the occasion
aforesaid, and arising or accruing or hereafter arising or accruing in any way therefrom."
We may admit that there is some ambiguity in these words.
The release is "of all claims of every kind and character whatsoever," arising, not from all muries and damages sustained,
but from "the injuries and damages sustained." That is the
specific or enumerated injuries sustained "in the manner or
upon the occasion aforesaid," and the results of those injuries.
The words "in the manner and upon the occasion" are a mere
tautological identification of the collision and cause of the
injuries. They add nothing else whatever to the meaning
of the release. This construction gives purpose to the enumeration of the injuries and to all of the provisions of the release.
And the rule of construction should not be overlooked that
general words in a release are to be limited and restrained to
the particular words in the recital. The rule i illustrated by
the case of Unon Pacif Railway Company v Artist, 60 Fed.
Rep. 365. Artist was an engineer in the employ of the company and sustained injuries while switching cars: The release passed upon recited that it was "For amount agreed
upon in settlement of claim of Andrew S. Artist against the
Union Pacific Railway Company on account of- injuries received." The injuries were specified, and the release recited

CTOBER TERM£,

1904.

Opuimpn of the.C6urt.

198 U. S.

"settlement is in full of all clains and demands of whatever
character;" and concluded with a release "of all manner of
actions, causes -of action, suits, debts and sums of money,
dues, claims, and demands, whatsoever in law or equity"
Passing .on the effect of the release, Circuit Judge Sanborn,
speaking for the Q.burt of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit, applied the rule, citing'Jacksonv Stackhouse, 1 Cow 122, 126,
and 2 Pars. Cont. 633 note.
In Lumly v Wabash Railjoad Company, 76 Fed. Rep. -66,
the rule was also applied by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the
Sixth Circuit. The instrument enumerated the mijuiies received, released the railroad company "from all actions, -suits,
clamins, reckonings, and demands for, on account of, or arising
from injuries so as aforesaid received, and any, every and all
results hereafter flowing therefrom."
Quebe v..Gulf, C & S. F R.R.Co. (Texas), 81 S. W Rep.
20, is cited in opposition, The case can be distinguished.
Notwithstanding some of its expressloni, we do not think it
was the intention of the court to impfgn the rule which
qualifies general words by the particular words in a recital.
The trial court submitted to the jury as a question of fact
whether. the release was intended to, be confined to the injury
mentioned -m the release. Quebe contended .that the release
was so confined, as a matter of laW. The Supreme Court,
replying to it, .said that the mtentidn was "to release the cause
of action rather than to acknowledge receipt of payment for
a part of the damage." The court admitted the xistence of.
the rule of construction relied on, and that it was supported
by many authorities, but used language-which seemed to confine it to cases where the release'is attacked on the grotind of
mistake or fraud, and not to apply it when the interpretation
or.construction of language of a release is under corsideration.
This is certainly a doubtful limitation of the rule. The -purpose is not to set aside or reform an'instrument, but to ascer•tain its scope and mdning. In the case at bar, however,
mistake is charged, and there is eidence tending to show that

TEXAS & .PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DASHIELL.
198 U. S.

Qpimon of the Court.

defendant in error's skull was fractured, and it Was from that
the impairment'of his sight and mental powers resulted. Such
effects, the testimony tended to show, could not result from a
simple wound to the scalp. There was testimony going to
show, therefore, tht the injuries to defendant in error's skull,
brain and eye were not known to the parties when the release
was executed, and that his impaired mental powers and loss
of sight were the results of those injuries, and not the result
of those which were enumerated.
In Unwn Pacific Railway Co. v Hams, 158 U. S. 326,. a
written, release was set. up in bar of an action for damages
against the railway company Several defenses were made to
the release, among others, "that the minds of the parties never
met on the principal subject embraced in the release, namely,
the damages for which the action was brought." This defense was complicated in the instructions of* the -court with
the defenses of fraud and mental incompetency to understand the terms and extent of the release, and it is difficult
.to make satisfactory- extracts from the charge of the- trial
eourt. Enough, however, dppears to show that the cow'k-submitted to the jury the fact of mistake of injuries iecmeved
as bearing on the effect of the release, and this-action- was
affirmed by. this court.
It follows from these views -that judgment should be and
it is
A/firmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, MR. JUSTICE BROWN and MR. JUs-

-TICE 'PECKHAM dissent.
VOL. OXoVnII-34-

