BONIN v. GULF COMPANY
198 U. S.

Syllabus.

national banks because the assessment of the property of state
banks is upon the franchise and not upon the shares of stock,
there is nothing in the bill to show that this difference in
method operates to discriminate against'national bank shareholders by assessing their property at higher rates than are
imposed upon capital invested in state banks. And as to the
deduction of the value of real estate and other deductions
allowed to state banks, the Supreme Court of Kentucky has
held that all deductions allowed to state banks must be allowed
in like manner in assessing the property of shareholders in
national banks. Commonwealth v Citizens' Bank, 80 S.W
Rep. 158. Nor does the allegation that in cities of the first,
second and third class state banks are assessed upon their
shares for city taxation, but upon their franchises and property
for state and county taxation, in the absence of averments of
fact showing that thereby a heavier burden of. taxation is
iiposed upon national than state banks in such cities, warrant
judicial interference for the protection of shareholders in.
national banks. )avenport Bank v Davenport Board of Equalzzation, 123 U S.83.
Judgment affirmed.

BONIN v. GULF COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COUNT OF APPEALS

FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No.50. Argued 3arch 16, 1905.-Decided April 24, 1905.

In an action of ejetment plaintiff pitched his claun solely on a patent from
the United States; defendant removed the action to the Circuit Court
on the ground of diverse citizenship and obtained a verdict and judgment on the plea of prescription after nonsuit on plea of res judicata;
the judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.

Held, that

the judgment was final and the writ of error must be dismissed. The
jiisdiction of the Circuit Court rested solely on diverse citizenship, the
assertion of title under patent from the United States presented no ques-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

tion in itself conferring jurisdicti;n, and plaintiff's petition did not
assert, in legal and logical form- if at all, the existence of any real controversy as to the effect or construction of the Constitution or of any
law or treaty of the United States constituting an independent ground
of jurisdiction.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mir Branch K. Miller for plaintiffs in error.
Mr Edgar H. Farrar,Mr B. F. Jonas and Air Ernest B.
Kruttschnitt for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a petitory action for real property, or an action of
ejectment, brought by the heirs of Gonsoulin, plaintiffs in
error, against the Gulf Company, defendant in error, in the
District Court of St. Mary's Parish, Louisiana, where the land
was situated. The petition alleged that a grant or concession
by the Spanish Government was originally made to Dubuclet,
St. Clair and Gonsoulin in 1783, and that the interest of
Dubuclet and St. Clair were conveyed to the heirs of Gonsoulin after 1808.
That the United States Government issued a patent-to the
heirs of Gonsoulin, and that petitioners' "claim by said grant
and concession covering said lands, dates back to the year
seventeen hundred and eighty-three or thereabouts, and said
concession was recognized and confirmed by .the United States
Government after proper and legal surveys had defined the
boundaries and segregated said grants."
That said lands were "now in the possession of and illegally
detained and held by the Gulf Company, a body corporate
organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey, domiciled
in the State of New Jersey
The Gulf Company filed. its petition for the removal of the
cause, alleging that it was, at the time the suit was brought,
and when. the petition was filed, a citizen of New Jersey, and

BONIN .r GULF COMPANY
19S U. S.

Opinibn of the Court.

that the heirs of Gonsoulin were citizens of the State of Louisiana. The cause was removed accordingly, and plaintiffs filed
in the Circuit Court an amendcd and supplemental petition,
stating that all the plaintiffs were citizens of Louisiana, and
that defendant was a citizen of New Jersey, and praying that
petitioners "be recognized as the true and lawful owners of
the said property described in the patent, letters patent, or
grant, issued to Dautrieve Dubuclet, Benoist de St. Clair and
Francois Gonsoulin by the United -States of America, on August 21, 1878," and that they be put in possession.
Plaintiffs pitched their title solely on this patent. Defendant for peremptory exception pleaded the prescription of ten
years; the prescription of thirty years; and res pudicata.
On the trial the Circuit Court charged the jury to find for
defendant on the pleas of prescription, and non-.uited defendant on the plea of res 2udicata. Verdict was returned, and
judgment entered accordingly, and the case having been carried
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, the judgment was affirmed. 116 Fed. Rep. 251.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court rested alone on diversity
of citizenship. The assertion of title under a patent from the
United States, presented no question, which, of- itself, conferred jurisdiction. FlorndaCentral Railroad Company v(Bell,
176 U S. 321, 328. No dispute or controversy as to the effect
or construction of the Constitution, or of any law, or treaty
of the United States, on which the result depended, appeared
by the record to have been really and substantially involved,
so that it could be successfully contended that jurisdiction
was invoked on the ground that the suit arqse under Clnstitution, law, or treaty Arbwkle v Blackburn, 191 U S. 45.
On the pleadings and evidence, the questions in the Circuit
Court were questions of prescription, and of res 2udicata; in
the Circuit Court*of Appeals, of prescription, and plaintiffs'
petitions did not assert, in legal and logical form, or at all, the
existence of a real controversy, in itself, constituting an independent ground of jurisdiction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was, there'fore, final, and the writ of error must be dismissed.
The judgment was entered in the Circuit Court of Appeals
May 27, 1902, this writ of error was allowed May 22, 1903,
and the case was docketed here June 1, 1903.
Plaintiffs in error filed a petition for certiorari hereto, February 17, 1905, which was submitted February 27, and its
consideration postponed to the hearing on the merits. In our
-6pinion that writ should not be granted. Ayres v Polsdor/er,
187 U S. 595.
Writ of errordismissed, ceriorandemed.

HOWE SCALE COMPANY v WYCKOFF, SEAMfANS &
BENEDICT.
CERTIORARI TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT OP' APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 130. Argued January 16, 17, 1905.-Decded April 24, 1905.
In, an action to restrain the use of a personal name in trade, where it appears that defendant has the right to use fhe name and has not done
anything to promote confusion m the mind of the public except to use
it, complainant's case must stand or fall on the possession of the exclusive
right to the use of the name.
A personal nane-an ordinary family surname such as Remington-cannot
be exclusively appropriated by any one as against others having a right
ivalid
to use it; it is manifetly incapable of exclusive appropriation as a
trade-mark, and its registration as such can not in itself give it.validity.
:Every man has a right to use his name reasonably and honestly in every
way, whether in a firm or corporation; nor is a person obliged to abandon
the use of his name or to unreasonably restrict it:
It is not the use, but dishonesty in the use, of the name thqt is condemned,
and it is a question of evidence in each case whetker there is false representation or not.
One corporation cannot restrainanother, from using in its corporate title
a name to which others have a common-right.
Where persons or corporatiows have a right to. use a name courts will not
interfere where .the only confusion results from a similarity of names

