CHICAGO, M. & ST. P. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 385
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY %.UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 19& Submitted April 6, 1905.-Decided May 15,1905.
The Postmaster General is given the power to arrange the railway routes
upon which the mail is to be. carried, and to adjust and readjust compensations, subject only to limitation of ascertaining the rate by average

weight of mails.
There is nothing m ยง 4002, Rev. -Stat., which requires the abrogation of a
prior contract when an extension is made beyond the terminal of an
established route or which precludes provision for the extension alone.
While a contract may not be forced upon a railway it may accept and become bound by the action of the Post Office Department.

TuE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr George R. Peck, Mr W. TV. 'Dudley and Mr. L. T.
Michener for appellant.
Mr Assutant Attormey General Pradt and Mr John Q.
Thompson, Special Attorney, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellant, a Wisconsin corporation, Bled a petition in
the Court of Claims, August 25, 1896, which it amended July 19,
1900, and by which it sought recovery from the United States
of the sumi of $9,101.08, for compensation for carrying-the mails
from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to Republic, Michigan, and thence
to Champion, Michigan.
The services were rendered by the Milwaukee and Northern
Railroad- Company Appellant's ownership was derived from
that company, as alleged n'the petition, as follows:
"Your petitioner further avers that on the 30th day of
September, 1890, it became the purchaser, and thereupon it
VOL. oxcvi-25

OCTOBER TERMT, 1904.
Opmion -of the 'Court.

198*U. SA.

became the lawful owner, by assignment and transfer, of all
of the capital stock of the said Milwaukee and Northern Railroad- Company; that on the 1st day of October, 1890, the
board of directors of the Milwaukee and Northern Railroad
Company was reorganized by the election of persons who were
either directors or officers of the petitioner, and the offices were
filled by the election of persons who were officers of its company,
with the solitary exception of the president of the Milwaukee
and Northern Railroad Company; that from the 30th day of
September, 1890, until the 26th day of June, 1893, that company operated the railroad as a separate organization and in
the name of the Milwaukee anrd Northern Railroad Company;
that on the 26th day of June, 1893,. pursuant to a vote of the
stockholders of the Milwaukee and Northern Railroad Company, the latter company executed a deed to the petitioner,
whereby it conveyed to petitioner all its railroads, railways,
rights of way, depot grants, tracks, bridges, etc., and also all
other property and choses in. action whatsoever, both real and
personal, of the said Milwaukee. and Northern Railroad Company, and all its rights, privileges and corporate franchises
connected with or relating to such railroad or to the construction, maintenance, use or operation of the same. And
that thereafter, to wit, August 28, 1893, the Milwaukee and
Northern Railroad Company held its last stockholders' meeting and its last directors' meeting, and since that time it has
not exercised any corporate functions or powers, nor has it
pretended to do anything of the sort."
The United States demurred to the petition on the grounds
that (1) "The claim came to the claimant, if at all, by a pretended assignment which as to the United States was void,
(2) the allegations of the amended petition did not state facts
sufficient to constitute a claim against the United States."
The demurrer was sustained and~the petition dismissed, whereupon this appeal. was taken.
The demurrer. presented the questions of the validity of the
assignment and the merits of the claim. We rest our-decision

CHICAGO, Il. & ST. P RY CO. v. UNITE) STATES. 387
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

on the latter. We express no opinion of the validity of the
assignment.
The Milwaukee and Northern Railroad ran from Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, to Republic, Michigan, a distance of 255.37 miles.
Under the authority given hun by law, "to 'arrange the railway routes on which mail is carried," (section 3997 of the
Revised Statutes 'of the United States)) the Postmaster General designated the road from Milwaukee to Republic as Postal
Route No. 139,016, and compensation was fixed for carrying
the mails thereon. On February 4, 1890, the road was extended to Champion, Michigan, a distance of 8.89 miles.
Provision was made for the extension by-an order dated February 4, 1890, which directed that service should be extefided
from Republic to Champion, increasing distance 9.16 miles,
less .27 miles, making a net increase of 8.89 miles, "in accordance with distance circular, and with the understanding that
the rate of. compensation on this extension will be adjusted in
a subsequent order in accordance with law"
On December 1, 1890, the following order was made and
directed to the general .manager of the railroad.
"Si: The compensation for the transportation -of mails,
etc., on route No. 139,016, between Milwaukee, Wis., and
Champion, Mich., has been fixed from Sept. 23, 1890, to
June 30, 1891, (unless otherwise ordered) under acts of March 3,
1873, July. 12, 1876, and June'17, 1878, upon returns showing
the amount and character of the service for thirty successive
working days, commencing Sept. 23, 1890, at the rate of
$35,022.37per annum, being $132.53 per mile for. 264.26 miles.
"From February 24 to Sept. 22, 1890, pay is allowed at the
rate of. $1,178.19 per annum, being $132.-53 per mile for 8.89
mijes extension between Republic and. Champion,. Mich.
"This adjustment is subject to future orders and to fines
and deductions."
It will be observed that is- order purports to fix the compensation on route 139,016 between Milwaukee and Champion.
The dates designated are somiewhat confusing. However,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opmion of the Court.

198 U. S.

in two days another order was issued and directed to the company, which reads as follows:
"SIR. The compensation for the transportation of mails,
etc., on route No. 139,016, between Republic and Champion,
Mich., has been fixed from February 24, 1890, to June 30,
1891 (unless otherwise ordered), under acts of March 3, 1873,
July 12, 1876, and June 17, 1878, upon returns showing the
amount and character of the service for thirty successive
working days, commencing Sept. 23, 1890, at the rate of
$1,178.19 per annum, being $132.53 per mile for 8.89 miles
extension.
"This adjustment is subject to future orders and to fines
and deductions."
The first order revoked the compensation for carrying the
mails from Milwaukee to Republic, which had been fixed, and
was manifestly a mistake. The second order was intended to
correct the mistake and confine the adjustment to the extension from Republic to Champion.
The contention of appellant is that the Postmaster General
had no power to issue the second order, but was required by.
section 4002 of the Revised Statutes of the United'States to fix
compensation for the whole route as extended. The appellant
urges in support of the contention not only the provision of,
the section, but the practice and usage of the Post Office.
Department. Section 4002 is as follows:
"The Postmaster General is authorized and directed to
readjust the compensation hereafter to be paid for the transportation of mails on-railroad routes upon the conditions and
at the rates hereinafter mentioned.
"First. That the mails shall be conveyed with due frequency
and speed, and that sufficient anid suitable room, fixtures, and
furniture, in a car or apartment properly lighted and warmed,
shall be provided for route agents to accompany and distribute
the mails.
"Second. That the pay per mile per annum shall not exceed
the following rates, nanely- On routes carrying their whole

CHICAGO, M. & ST. P. RY. CO..v. UNITED STATES. 389
198 U. S.

.Opimon of the Court.

length an average weight of mails per day of two hundred
pounds, fifty dollars; five hundred pounds, seventy-five dollars; one thousand pounds, one hundred dollars; one thousand
five hundred pounds, one hundred and twenty-five dollars;
two thousand pounds, one hundred and fifty dollars; threethousand five hundred pounds, one hundred and seventy-five
dollars; five thousand pounds, two hundred dollars; and
twenty-five dollars additional for every additional two thousand pounds, the average weight to be ascertained, in every
case, by the actual weighing of the mails for such a number
of successive working days, not less than thirty, at such times,
:,ter June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and seventy-three, and
not less frequently than once in every-four years, and the result
to be stated and verified in such form and manner. as the
Postmaster General may direct."
The section does not sustain the appellant's contention.
The Postmaster General is given the power to arrange the
railway routes upon which the mail is to be carried, and to
adjust and readjust compensation. The orders of December 1
and December 3, respectively, reserved this power, and the
only limitation on its exercise, expressed in dection 4002, is
as to the manner of ascertaining the rate, which is to be by
the average weight of the mails. There is nothing in the section wich requires the abrogation.of prior contracts when an
extension is made beyond the terminal of an established route
or precludes provisions for the extension alone. A contract
may not be forced upon a railway. It may accept, however,
and become bound by the action of the Post Office Department. Eastern Railroad v United States, 129 U. S. .391.
The record does not show any protest against the order of
.December 3. Its terms were unmistakable, and, as counsel
for the Gbvernment observes, "it may be justly inferred"
that the railroad company "viewed the order of December 3
in the same light and as havmg the same force and effect as
intended by' the postal authorities."
Judgment affirmed.

