OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U.S.

power, it would have been confinedto matter of law. We are
clear that an appeal would not lie, and the decrees of the
Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed, with a direction
to dismiss the appeals and remand the cause to the District
Court for further proceedings in conformity with this 'opmion.
In bur view the District Court should have declined upon
its findings to retain jurisdiction, and. in that event the decrees
for the return of the money should have been without prejudice to the right of respondents to litigate in a proper court,
which modification we direct to be made.
Ordered accordingly.

EMPIRE STATE-IDAHO MINING AND DEVELOPING
COMPANY v. HANLEY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 604. Submitted May 1, 190.-Decided May 15, 190.

Where the junsdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked on the ground of
diverse citizenship, it will not be held to rest also on the ground that the
suit arose under the Constitution of the United States, unless it really
and substantially involves a dispute or controversy as to the effect or
construction of the Constitution upon the determination of which the resuit depends, and which appears on the record by a statement in legal and
logical form such as good pleading requires and where the case is not
brought within this rule the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final.
Where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court has been invoked on the ground
of diverse citizenship and plaintiff asserts two causes of action, only one
of which'involves a right under the Constitution, and the Circuit Court
of Appeals decides against him on that cause of action and in Is favor
on the other, the judgment of that 'ourt 'is final and defendant cannot
make the alleged constitutional question on which he has succeeded the
basis of jurisdiction for an appeal to this court.

HANLEY brought this bill in equity in the Circuit Court of

the United States for the Disthct of' Idaho, setting up diversity
of citizenship as the ground of jurisdiction, and asserted owner-

EMPIRE STATE MINING &c. CO. V. HANLEY.
198 U. S.

293

Statement of the Case.

ship of an undivided one-eighth interest, and of an undivided
one-third interest, in the Skookum mning claim, Shoshone
County, Idaho. As to the one-third interest, Hanley claimed
under certain proceedings in the Probate Court of that county,
which were, without notice to hin as-he said, set aside, ad the
interest conveyed to the Oheinung Company, and by the latter
to the Empire State &c. Mining Company Hanley's title to
the one-eighth interest was derived through mesne conveyances
from the original grantee under A patent from the United
States. This interest Hanley- had conveyed to Sweeny and
Clark by a deed deposited in the Exchange National Bank of
Spokane, to be delivered on certain specified conditions, and
he averred that Sweeny and Clark obtained possession of the
deed wrongfully and contrary to the escrow agreement, and
afterwards made a pretended deed of the interest to the Empire State Company
On hearing, the Circuit Court decreed against Hanley as to
both interests. Hanley carried the case to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, which held that .he was not entitled to relief as to
the one-third interest, but that he was as to the one-eighth interest. The decree was therefore reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings. 109 Fed. Rep. 712. The case
went back and was referred to a master for an accounting as to
the one-eighth interest, who reported a large amount of money
.as due to Hanley The Circuit Court reduced the amount by
deducting the cost of working the property while Hanley was
excluded from the mine, and entered a decree quieting Hanley's title to the one-eighth interest and giving hun judgment
against the Empire State Company for the last named amount.
Defendant appealed from this decree and filed a supersedeas
bond with the American Bonding Company of Baltimore as
surety, and Hanley prosecuted a cross appeal questioning the
deduction. The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the cross
appeal and held that the Circuit Court erred in allowing defendants their working costs. 126 Fed. Rep. 97 -The case
was remanded with directions to modify the decree. This was

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellants.

198 U. S.

done and recovery of the original amount decreed, and also
recovery on the bond of the amount it was given to secure,
and another appeal was taken by the companies to the Court
of Appeals, which affirmed the decree. The pending appeal
having been subsequently allowed, was submitted on motion
to dismiss.
Mr. W B. Heyburn, Mr George Turner and Mr F T Post,
for appellants:
Where the judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals in cases
where the jurisdiction depends on diverse citizenship, under
the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, there is a right of appeal
to this court if, in addition to the allegation of diverse citizenship, a -distinct Federal question appears on the face of the
complaint. Spreckels Sugar Ref. Co. v McLarn, 192 U. S. 397,
Nor Pac. Ry. Co. v. Soderberg, 188 U. S. 526, Sugar Refining
Co. v New Orleans, 181 U. S. 281, Howard v United States,
184 U. S. 681, Col. Cent. M. Co. v Turck, 150 U. S. 141.
In this case there is a Federal question which will give the
Circuit-Court jurisdiction in the first instance, as it arises under
the Constitution or laws of the United States. Section 2,
act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 305.
Defendants, who are in possession of ,the property and mining its ore, found their right on the proceedings in the Probate
Court. The Fourteenth Amendment applies to the action of
the courts as well as to the action of the legislative and executive authorities of the States. Noble v Unon River Logging
Railroad, 147 U S. 175, Scott v McNeil, 154 U. S. 34, C., B.
& Q. R. R. Co. v..Ch'cago, 166 U S. 226, Pennoyer v Neff, 95
U S. 714, Lennard v Louisana, 92 U S. 480; Hagarv Reclamation Dtst., 111 U S. 708, United States v Lee, 106 U-. S. 220.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court would have been maintamed on the allegations of the complaint if there had been
no averment of diverse citizenship because under these cases
the complaint shows a deprivation of property without due
process of law

EMPIRE STATE MINING &c. CO. v. HANLEY.
198 U. S.

-295

Argument for Appellee.

This court will look at thelogical effect of the allegations of
the complaint and if they show jurisdiction in the court below
on another ground than diverse citizenship the appeal must
be allowed, even though the Constitution, law or treaty involved be not mentioned. Gold Washing Co. v Key~s, 96
U. S. 199; 1'Chitty P1. 213, Northern Pacific Railway Co. v
Soderberg, 188 U S. 526, Warner v Searle & Herath Co., 191
U. S. 195, §§ 5, 6, act of 1891. The cases cited by appellee
can be distinguished.
A good ground of equity with reference to one part of a
connected transaction gives the court power to adjudicate
with reference to the entire case. Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence, 2d ed., §§ 181, 231, 242.
This principle applies as well to the constitutional and statutory jurisdiction of the Federal courts as to their equitable
jurisdiction. It has been so applied on the Circuit. Brooks
v Stolley, 3 McLean, 523.
It has been applied by this court in cases where bills, original
in the equitable .sense, and therefore requiring diversity of
citizenship for purposes of Federal jurisdiction, have .been
treated as ancillary and supplemental for the purpose of
avoiding objection to the Federal jirisdiction. Blossom v.
RailrSad Co., 1 Wall. 655, Minnesota Co. v St. Paul Co., 2
Wall. 609; Freeman v Howe, 24 How 460; Johnson v Christian, 125 U. S. 642; Pac.R. R. of Mo. v Mo. Pac. R. R.Co.,
111 U S. 505, Keppendorj v Hyde, 110 U S. 276. The whole
case, then, may be said to have been governed by the constitutional question.
Mr M. A. Folsom for appellee:
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depended entirely on
diversity of citizenship. Stevenson v Fain, 195 U S.165.
Allegations of a Federal question must appear in the complaint, and must be clear and distinct and must show a substantial Federal question. All doubts are to be resolved
against the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. Grace v Amen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Cburt.

198 U. S.

can Cent. Ins. Co., 109 U-. S. 278; Lampasas v Bell, 180 U. S.
276, Western Unon Tel. Cb. 1 Ann Arbor R. Co., 178 U. S.
239; New Orleans v Benjamrn, 153 U. S. 423, York v Texas,
137 U S. 15.
Plaintiff below- could not claim to have been deprived of
the interest until he established that he had acquired it. The.
constitutional question, if any. was. raised, was therefore conjectural. Cosmopolitan.Co. v Walsh, 193 U. S. 460; aornell
Green, 163 U. S. 75, Ansbro v United States, 159 U. S: 695;
*Ex parte Lennon, 150 U. S. 393, 400; Carey v Houston Ry. Co,
.150 U. S. 170.
The claim of the onethird interest was abandoned and if
any constitutional question was based on it at -any time it
cannot be now resorted to. Hill v Chwago & Evanston R.
Co., 1401U. S. 52; Scrven v North, 134U. S. 366. If sufficient
allegations of the constitutional question with reference to the
one-third interest were made'in the complaint, the appellants
here do not .bear such a relation to the question as to entitle
them to 4ppeal to this court. New Orleans v Emskeimer, 181
U. S. 153, Anglo-Am. Pronszon Co. v Daws, 191 U. S. 376;.
Lampasas v Bell, 180 U S. 270.
The Bonding Company voluntarily appeared and made its.elf
a quasi-party to the litigation. Judgment was rendered against
that company upon a petition and notice in a method -similarto
that followed in Woodworth v Northwestern Ins. Co., 185 U. S.
354; S. C., 119 Fed. Rep. 148, Gordon v National Bank, 53
Fed. Rep. 471, Meredith v Santa Clara Co., 60 California, 617
The right of the Bonding Company to an appeal depends
upon the right of the Empire State Company to an appeal.
Gregory v Van Ee, 160 U. S. 643, Carey v Houston, 161 U. S.
127
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
was dependent entirely upon diversity of citizenship, and that'

EMPIRE STATE MINING &c. CO. v. HANLEY.
I8U

Si

297

Opimon of the Court.

this appeal must be dismissed. Appellants' contention is that
the allegations of Hanley's complaint as to the one-third: interest amounted to the assertion that he had been deprived of
that interest by the Probate Court without due process of law,
and were sufcient to support the jursdiQtion of the Circuit
Court on this -round, -irrespective of diversity of citizenship.
We. do not so regard the allegations. What Hanley asserted
was that his title to the thirdmterest was good because he had
purchased it from the administrator under the decree of the
Probate Court, and that the subsequent decree of that court
annulling the prior decree was invalid for want of jurisdiction
to render it at a subsequent term, for want of notice, and for
lack of evidence.
Granting that the.Fourteenth Amendment applies, to the .action .of the courts as well as of the legislative and executive
Authorities- of the States, the averments of the complaint did
not suggest that the courts of Idaho would hold the later -proceedings of the Probate Court, if- attacked by Hanley directly,
effectual to overthroW his purchase, or charge -that in such
action as had been .taken they had committed error so gross
as to amount in law to a deDial by the State of due process of
law Hanley's contention was in effect that the later proceedings were void for lack of jurisdiction, and he. did noi pretend
that he could not have obtained redress by direct suit in the
state courts.
The Constitution- and laws of the Uruted States were not
mentioned in the complaint, nor any dispute or controversy
raised as to the effeet or construction .of the Constitution or
laws on the determination of which the result depended, nor
was any title, right, privilege, or immunity specially set up or
claimed under Constitution or law
If this had -been a writ- of error to a state court, the averments would not have brought it within section 709 of. the
Revised Statutes. If it had been a direct appeal from the
Circuit. Court under section 5 of .the act of March 3, 1891, it
could. not have been sustained because the construe- i. cr

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

application of the Constitution of the United States was not
distinctly presented for 7decision in the court below
And as an appeal from the Circuit Court of Appeals under
section 6 of the act of 1891, it cannot be sustained because it
falls within the settled rule that: "Where the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court is invoked on the ground of diverse citizenship it will not be held to. rest also on the ground that the suit
arose under the Constitution of the United States, unless it
really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy as
to the effect or construction of the Constitution upon. the determination of which the result depends, and which appears
on the record by a statement in legal and logical form such as
good pleading requires; and where the case is not brought
within the rule the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
final." Arbuckle v Blackburn, 191 U. S. 405, Western Union
Telegraph Company v Ann Arbor Railroad Company, 178
U S. 239.
If the allegation of diversity of citizenship had been omitted
from the bill, the jurisdiction could not have been maintained.
The decisions of the courts below did not turn on any Federal question. The Circuit Court held that Hanley had no
title to the one-third interest because the Idaho statute relating
to probate sales had not been complied with, the Court of
Appeals, that Hanley was not entitled to the aid of a court
of equity, in respect of that interest, because of his conduct at
the time of the transaction.
Appellants. succeeded in their defense as to the one-third
interest, and Hanley accepted the result on the second appeal.
'They now make a grievance of their own success and ask that
the s pposed constitutional question as to the third interest
only be made the basis of jurisdiction here, although, if the
decree disposed-of any such question, it was in their favor.
In our opinion this cannot be permitted. Anglo-Amercan
Prosusor Company v Dams Provison Company, 191 U .S.
376, Lampass v Bell, 180 U. S. 276.
Appeal dismised,

