GREAT WESTERN MINING CO. v. HA RRIS.
198 U S.

W61

Statement of the Case.

GREAT WESTERN MINING AND MANUFACTURINGCOMPANY v. HARRIS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No.217. Argued April14,17, 1905.-Decided May 29, 1905.

A receiver is an officer of the court which appoints him, and in the absence
of some conveyance or statute vesting the property of the debtor in him,
he cannot sue in courts of a foreign jurisdiction upon the order of the
court appointing him, to recover the property of the debtor. Booth v.
Clark, 17 How. 338.
A receiver's right to sue in a foreign jursdiction is not recognized upon
principles of comity, as every jurisdiction in which it is sought by means
of a receiver to subject property to the control of the court, has the
right and power to determine for itself who the receiver shall be, and to
control the distribution of the funds realized within its own jurisdiction.
Where the receiver can not maintain an action to recover property in a
jurisdiction other than that miwlich he was appointed, jurisdiction is
not established because the action-is authorized to- be instituted by the
receiver in the name of the corporation, if it appears that in case of a
.recovery the property would be turned over to the receiver to be by
him administered under the order of'the court appointing him.

THIS case was begun by bill in equity *filed m the Circuit
Court-of the United States for the District of Verrhont in the
name of the Great Western Mining and Manufacturing Corn
pany, a Kentucky corporation, by L. C. Black, its receiver,
against B. D. Harris, a citizen of the State of Vermont. It is
averred that the corporation was duly organized under the
laws of the kate of Kentucky In substance the bill sets
forth. That the Great Western Mining and.Manufacturing
Company was orkanized by the Kentucky legislaturp on January 19, '1856, for the purpose of owmng and operating mining
property and selling coal. On or about February 10, 1859,
it became the owner of coal properties to the value of about
$40,000, situated in Lawrence County, .Kentucky Tle capital
stock of said compan'y was $200,000, divided into 2,000 shares
VOL cXCVIII-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

of $100 each. That previous to November 10, 1887, the capital
stock of the company was owned as follows:
B. D. Harris, the defendant herein, 600 shares, par
$60,000 00
value.
60,000 00
G. D. Harris, 600 shares, par value.
44,000 00
John Carlisle, 440 shares, par value.
30,000 00
George W Carlisle, 300 shares, par value.
400 00
James C. Holden, 4 shares, par value.
400 00
Lormg Hinsdale, 4 shares, par value
5,200 00
George S. Richardson, 52 shares, par value.
On November 10, 1887, the stockholders increased the
capital stock in the sum of $50,000, the same being distributed
among the stockholders as follows:
To B. D Harris, 150 shares, par value.
To G. D Harris, 150 shares, par value.
To John Carlisle, 110 shares, par value.
To George W Carlisle, 75 shares, par value.
To George S. Richardson, 13 shares, par value.
To James C. Holden, 1 share, par value.
To Lormg Hinsdale, 1 share par value..

$15,000 00
15,000 00
11,000 00
-

7,500 00

1,300 00
100 00
100 00

[The record shows that this increase was in fact made on
January 11, 1888, in pursuance of a meeting authorized to be
called at that date in the meeting of November 10, 1887, and
certificates issued January 14, 1888.]On April 22, 1889, a further increase of capital stock was
had by adding 1,000 shares of $100 each, which was distributed
as follows:
$30,000 00
To B. D Harris, 300 shares, par value.
30,000 00
To G. D Harris, 300 shares, par value.
22,000 00
To John Carlisle,-220 shares, par value.
15,000 00
To George W Carlisle, 150 shares, par value.
2,600 00
To George S. Richardson, 26 shares, par value.
200 00
To James C. Holden, 2 shares, par value.
206 00
To.Loring Hinsdale, 2 shares, par value.

GREAT WESTERN M1INING CO. v. HARRIS.
198 U. S.

563

Statement of the Case.

The complainant avers that at the time the increases ofcapital stock were made and carried out the st6ckholders had
formed a plan of issuing bonds and selling, the same, and that
the issues and distribution of said stock were made for the
purpose of defrauding said company, and obtaining without
consideration the aforesaid shares of capital stock, and for'the
purpose of selling the same to the company m connection with
the said loan, and defrauding the company out of a part thereof.
That said issues of capital stock were made by the shareholders
and board of directors, of whom the-defendant was one, ostensibly in consideration of alleged betterments of said mining
property, which betterments, it was pretended, were made and
paid for out of the net earnings of. the company; which it was
represented had increased the value of the property-belonging
to the stockholders. Complainant alleges that no .such betterments had been made, and if made they were paid for out of
money borrowed upon the credit of the company, for which
an indebtedness then existed and still exists. That in fact
there had been no net earnings which had- been put into betterments by the company, and that the issue of said stock
was without consideration, illegal and void" and a breach! of
duty upon the part of the stockholders and. the directors of
the corporation to its'creditors. That said stock so issued still
remains outstanding in the names of .the parties- to whom it
was issued or their assignees. That on May 13, 1889, the directors of the company, of whom the defendant Harris was one,
and iho were also stockholders in the company, for the purpose of defrauding said company and abstracting the assets of
the company for their own use and benefit, the corporation then
being insolvent, without means to pay its floating indebtedness,
which then amounted to $100,000, or more, agreed that they
would obtain a loan of $300,000 for said company, said loan
to be evidenced by bonds to the number of 300 in the denomination of $1,000 each, to be secured by mortgage upon
the property of the company That the issues 'of stock had
been made upon the consideration that certain betterments

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

had been added to the property, and had been paid for out of
the profits of the operation thereof, which profits would otherwise belong to the stockholders, when in truth and fact the
said company was largely insolvent and had a mortgage debt
of about $60,000 upon it and a floating ,debt of $100,000 or
more. In fact; said company had not made any net profits
whatever, and said betterments had not been made at all, or,
if made, had been paid for out of the earnings of the company,
and no consideration except that herein stated was ever paid
by the stockholders for the stock issued to them. That it was
for the purpose of carrying out the scheme of abstracting from
the company money arising from the sale of the bonds, and
for that purpose only, that said stock was issued to the defendant Harris and others. That said bonds were sold at a price
of eighty-five cents on the dollar, including a bonus of fifty
per cent of the par value of said bonds in the stock of the company; that is, a purchaser of a $1,000 -bond was entitled to
have with said bond $500 of the. capital stock of the company.
That in pursuance of the combination aforesaid the said directors and stockholders furnishing said bonus stock were paid
for the same from the proceeds of the sale of the bonds. The
stock was furnished as follows in pursuance of the said arrange. nent:
-By B.. D. Harris, 450 shares, par value.
$45,000 00
G. D. Harris, 450 shares, par value....
45,000 00
John Carlisle, 336 ihares, par value.
33,600 00
George W. Carlisle, 225 shares, par value.
22,500 00
George S. Richardson, 39 shares,. par value.
3,900 00
That out-of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds the sum of
$75,000 was distributed'among the parties, as follows:
To
To
To
To
To

B. D. Harris, the defendant herein.
G. D. Harris.
John Carligle.
George S. Richardson ....
George W.. Carlisle.
..........

.

$22,500
22,500
16,800
1,950
111,250

00
00
00
00
00

GREAT WESTERN MINING. CO. L,.HARRIS.
198 U. S.

565

Statement of the Case.

That, as a matter of fact, when the stock was contributed
the company was insolvent, and could not carry on its business
without making the said loan, that said stock was worthless
and was sold to the company at fifty cents on the dollar for
the purpose above mentioned, and thereafter said stock was
transferred to the purchasers of the bonds. Then follow allegations as to the mismanagement of the company, and the
wrongful paymelit of dividends, and the averment that on or
about September 12, 1892, -one of the creditors of the company was compelled to make an application to the United
States Circuit Court of Kentucky, wherein a request was made
for the appointment of a receiver of the property and franchises of the company for the purpose of realizing its assets
and distributing them among its creditors; that in said proceedixq, all of the property of the Great Western Mining and
Manilfacturing Company was sold and was found to be of the
value of $75,666.66, which left a large floating indebtedness
of atout $90,000, besides a large balance due upon the bonded
indebtedness, aggregating about $270,000; that, m said proceedings in the United States Court for the District of Kentucky, L. P Black was appointed receiver of the asets of the
company, for the purpose of realizing upon the same for the
benefit of its creditors, and it is averred that by special order
of the United States Court said receiver had been directed-toprosecute this suit, either in his ovn name or that of the
company, as may be proper. The prayer of the bill is -for, an
accounting respecting the matters and things set up in the
bill, and that the defendant be required to pay ,to the complainant the sums which may be found to be due by reason of
the matters and thmgs- set forth, and for general relief. .An
answer and replication were filed, and the issues made up -were
heard upon the pleadings and testimony The Circuit- Court
found the estate of B. D. Harris, he having died pending the
suit, liable ift the sum 'of $15,000, being the amount Harris
received from the company in 'exchange for the 300 shares of
stock issued to him in April, 1889, and held that the estate was

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

not liable on account.of the amounts received by him for stock
previously issued to him, and was not liable to account for the
amounts taken by other officers, directors or stockholders of
the company The case in the Circuit Court is reported in
Ill Fed. Rep. 38. Upon cross appeals the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the jpudgment of the
court below upon the ground that the Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction of the action, as the same could not be brought
by the receiver in the name of the corporation, and if it could
be maintained by the corporation, or in its behalf, no case was
made for a recovery, because of the consent of the stockholders
to the transactions complained of. 128 Fed. Rep. 321. The
order appointing the receiver in the Circuit Court is foundin
the record, and is as follows:
"The above cause coming on this day to be heard upon the
motion of complainant for a~pomtment of a receiver and havmg been fully heard and considered, it is ordered by the court
that said motiofi be granted, and that the order hereinbefore
entered, appointing L. C. Black as temporary receiver, be
continued, and said L. C. Black be and he is hereby appointed
receiver of all the property, rights .m action, choses in action,
and all assets of every, description, of the defendant, The Great
Western Mining and Manufacturing Co., with all the-powers
and authority conferred by the order appointing hin temporary receiver hereto, and that he is to act and continue to act
under the orders hereinbefore made, and that he hold and
keep the property and asset .arisming from the funds of said
business, or that may come into his hands, subject to such
order as may be made from time to time; and it is also ordered
that he shall have power to purchase such current, supplies as
are or may be needed in the proper conduct and operation of
the business of said company"
Th6 application.for the order to bring this action sets forth.
"The receiver represents that he has ascertained from the
books and records of the Great Western Mining and Manufactting Company, in his possession, that, in connection with

GREAT WESTERN MINING CO. v. HARRIS.
198 U. S.

567

Statement of the Case.

the floating of the loan of $300,000 in the year 1889, upon' the
property of the Great Western Mining and Manufacturmg
Company, situate in Lawrence County, Kentucky, certain
Uockholders and officers of said company combined to obtain
for themselves, and did so obtain, Proceeds resulting from the
sale of said bonds m the sum of $75,000, which money belonged
to and should have been paid into the treasury of said company
"Your receiver says that he finds shares of capital stock of
the Great Western Mining and Manufacturing Company ivere
issued at the instance of-and through the action of certain of
said stockholders and officers of said company, to the amount
of $150,000, which said stock was distributed among said
stockholders and officers; that as your receirer is informed and
believes there was no consideration for the issue and distribution of said stock, that the said stock was sold by said stockholders, so as aforesaid receiving it, to the defendant, The
'Great Western Mining and Manufacturing Company, and by
means of said sale moneys to the amount of '$75,000 were 'abstracted from the treasury of said company; that the issue and
distribution of said capital stock was, as your receiver believes,
a mere device or instrumentality to abstract said moneys from
the treasury of said company; that said company as your receiver believes, has a valid claim against said persons to recover said moneys; that some of said parties are solvent and
able to repay said monies, and proceedings should be taken to
recover it for said company and its creditors.
"Your receiver fufther says that he has discovered from the
books of the company that apparently, by reason of the inattention and negligence of the board of directors of the said
Great'Western Mining and Manufacturing Qompany, and appareiltly .by reason .of the mismanagement and misappropriation of the fiiads of the company, by certain Iiiembers of said
board, that the said company has been greatly damaged, And
its assets depreciated in value in a large amount, the exact sum
of which is unknown to your receiver, and that said losses

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Petitioner.

198 U. S.

should now be made part of the said company's assets, and
that the same is, in the opinion of your receiver, a valid claim
against the said board of directors, and that proceedings should
be taken to recover the same for the said company and its
creditors.
"Wherefore your receiver prays the direction of your honorable court as to his duty in the premises."
Upon this application the court made the following order"This cause comng on to be heard upon the application of
L. C. Black, receiver herein, asking for instructions as to his
duty in the matters and things set forth in the said application,
and wherein'said receiver represents to the court that in certain
transactions connected with .the floating of a loan of $300,000
upon the property of the Great Western Mining and ManuJfacturmg Company, apparently $75,000 was withdrawn by
certain stockholders and officers of the said company, whereas
the same should have been paid into the treasury of the said
company; and wherein said receiver further represents that
apparently certain stock was issued to the stockholders and
officers of the said company without consideration, and that
,apparently by reason of the inattention and negligence and
mismanagement of the board of directors of the said company
and the misappropriation 'of the funds 'of the said company,
said company has been -greatly damaged and its assets depreciated.
'And it appearing to the court that it will be for the advantage of the said company that suit shall be instituted against
the stockholders and directors of the same for the recovery of
the sums so representedto be lost, it is, therefore, directed
that said receiver proceed in his own name as receiver or in the
name of the company, as he may be advised, to recover said
sums."y
,MrHarlan Cleveland for petitioner as to the right of receiver to maintain the action.
The United States Circuit Court for Vermont had jurisdic-

GREAT WESTERN MIINING CO. v. HARRIS.
198 U. S.

569

Argument for Petitioner.

tion of the suit. The cases cited by the Circuit Court of Appeals simply decide that an ordinary receiver in whom no title
has vested cannot in his own name maintain a suit m a court
of another State to recover assets or enforce double liability
But the court in collecting the assets of a corporation is acting
within its powers on behalf of the corporation, or as the successor of the officers of the corporation in directing suit to be
brought by it and in its name.
When the United States Circuit Court for the District of
Kentucky appointed a receiver of The Great Western Mining
and Manufacturing Company, and by that act assumed charge
of the assets and affairs of the corporation, it took the place,
and could exercise the powers, of the directors. See authorities so holding as to calls or assessments on stockholders for
the unpaid portion of the subscription price of stock. Scoville v Thayer, 105 U. S. 143, 155, Hawksns v Glenn, 131
U. S. 319, 329; Glenn v Marbury, 145 U. S. 499, 510; Gt.
W. Tel. Co. v Purdy, 162 U. S. 329, 336; Hayward v Leeson,
176 Massachusetts, 310;.Kentucky Codes, ยง 302.
The practice is entirely familiar to courts of chancery
In .Taylorv Allen, 2 Atk. 213, a receiver to collect the assets
of a testator was empowered to sue in the name of the executrix.
Pittv Snowden, 3 Atk. 750; Yeager v Wallace, 44 Pa. St. 291,
Merritt v. Merritt, 16 Wend. 405, Freeman v. Winchester, 10
S. & M. (Miss.) 577, Green v Winter, 1 Johns. Ch. 60.
Even if the guit be treated as one brought by the receiver
in hs own name, it is maintainable on the principle of comity.
In Kentucky a receiver can bring an action in his own name.
Codes, ยง 21.
The receiver could undoubtedly have maintained this suit
in Kentucky in his own name. Kentucky allows foreign receivers to sue in that State by comity when there are no domestic creditors requiring protection or no infringement of the
public policy of that State or no injustice would be done
thereby to the citizens within its jurisdiction. Rogers v Riley,
(Ky.) 80 Fed. Rep. 759; Zacher v Fidelity Trust Co., 106 Fed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Respondents.

193 U. S.

Rep. 593, S. C., 59 S. W. Rep. 493; Kirtley v. Holmes, (Ky.)
107 Fed. Rep. 1, 9; Johnson v Roger's Receiver, (Ky.) 43
S. W. Rep. 234, Weedon v. Association, (Ky.) 59 S. W. Rep.
758. This seems to be the general rule. Howorth v. Augle,
162 N. Y. 179; Howorth v Lombard, 175 Massachusetts, 570;
Howorth v. Elwanger, 86 Fed. Rep. 54, Sands v Greeley, 88
Fed. Rep. 130; Burr v Smith, 113 Fed. Rep. 858; Lewis v
Naval Stores, 119 Fed. Rep. 396, 397, Metzner v Bauer, 98
Indiana, 425, Boulware v Davis, 90 Alabama, 207, Cooke v
Orange, 48 Connecticut, 401, Pldnters' Bank v Bank, 2"La.
Ann. 430; Comstock v. Frederickson, 51 Minnesota, 350; Hurd
v Elizabeth, 41 N. J. Law, 1, Sobernheimer v Wheeler, 45
N. J.Eq. 614, Runk v St. John, 29 Borh. 585, Barclay v.
Quwksilver Min. Co., 6 Lans. 25, Pugh v Hurtt, 52 How Pr.
22; Dyer v. Power, 60 Hun, 583, Merchants' Bank v McLeod,
38 Ohio St. 174, Porter v Stoughton Mill Co., 91 Wisconsin,
174, Wyman v. Kimberly Clark Co., 93 Wisconsin, 554.
Nothing in the public policy or decisions of Vermont precludes a foreign receiver from suing in the courts of that State,
under the circumstances of this case. No creditor in Vermont
has intervened to prevent the prosecution of this suit. The
Harris estate alone objects to this suit being maintained.
The right to recover on the one hand property of a corporation or its proceeds which have been misappropriated by
officers Vad directors, or on the other hand damages for its
misappropriation, is in the corporation. Porter v Sabn, 149
U S. 473; Hawes v Oakland, 104 U. S. 450; Davenportv Dows,
18 Wall. 626, Van Weel v Winston, 115 U S. 228.
Mr BranardTolles, with whom Mr Julien P Davies was
on the brief, for respondents as to the right of receiver to
mnamtam action.
The order of the Circuit Court for the District of Kentucky
.was not. effective to authorize the receiver to maintain a suit
in the name of the mining company, in the Circuit Coilrt for
'the District of Vermont. The receiver was a mere instrument

GREAT WESTERN MINING CO. v. HARRIS.
198 U. S.

571

Araument for Respondents.

the court which appointed him, for the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction in equity
No assignment7 or transfer of its property to the receiver was
ever made by the mining company and no authority was ever
given to the receiver to file this bill in the name of the mining
company. The receiver has no statutory title to the property
of the corporation, nor any statutory right to sue in its name.
The only justification of his action in making use of the name
of the corporation for the purpose of this suit-is found in 'the
order of the Circuit Court.
There were both stockholders and directors of this corpora-tion in the District of Kentucky at the time that order was
made, no proceedings were instituted in said District, in pursuance of said order. But in the District of Vermont a bill
was filed in the name of the mining company, not authenticated
by.its seal nor verified or signed by any of its officers.
To sign the name of another, without his consent, to -a bill
of omplamt or to an appeal bond, is-an act which requires
affirmative justification. When the act is done m. the District
of Vermont, and the object of the act is to get possession of
property having a situs in said District, and the official character of the receiver and the Circuit Court for the District
of Kentucky had no power to authorize such act for such a
purpose outside of the District. The order was one which
could have been acted on only Within the District.
As to comity this court is not constrained, by judicial precedent, or by any settled course of practice in this country, to
adopt the English rule. Booth v Clark, 17 How. .322.
In the Federal courts it has never been doubted that Booth
v Clark, supra, was conclusive against the right of receivers
to sue m the courts of the United States, outside the State or
District in which they were appointed. Brigham v Luddington, 12 Blatchf. 237, Kittel v Augusta &c. R. Co., 78 -Fed.Rep.
855, Hazard v Durant, 19 Fed. Rep. 471, Philadelpha &c.
Iron Co. v Daube, 71 Fed. Rep. 583, Wigton v Bosler, 102
Fed. Rep. 70.

-of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Respondents.

198 U. S.

The only Federal case to the contrary, Hale v Hardon, 95
Fed. Rep. 747, was overruled in Hale v Allinson, 188 U S. 56,
and Hilliker v Hale, 117 Fed. Rep. 224 (certiorari refused,
188 U S. 739).
Constrained by the authority of Booth v Clark, supra, the
courts of the United States have built up a system of procedure for dealing with the affairs of insolvent corporations,
which rests upon firmer ground than that of comity, and which
avoids the practical objections pointed out in Booth v Clark,
while securing to foreign creditors reasonable facilities for the
collection of their debts. The system which has thus been
evolved has the spirit of comity, but is made effective through
the exercise by each court of its own jurisdiction, rather than
by the abdication of jurisdiction on the part of any court in
favor of another. , Parsons v Charter Oak Life Ins. Co., 31
Fed. Rep. 305, Mercantile Trust Co. v Kanawha &c. R. Co.,
39 Fed. Rep. 337, Platt v Philadelphia& R. R. Co., 54 Fed.
Rep. 569, Central Trust Co. v East Tennessee &c. R. Co., 69
Fed. Rep. 658, Ames v Unwn Pacific R. Co., 60 Fed. Rep.
966, Bayne v Brewer Pottery Co., 82 Fed. Rep. 391, Sands v
E. S. Greeley & Co., 88 Fed. Rep. 130; Reynolds v Stockton,
140 U S. 254, In re Brant, 96 Fed. Rep. 257, Shinney v North
Amerwan Savings &c. Co., 97 Fed. Rep. 9; Coltrdne v Templeton, 106 Fed. R~ep. 370; Lewns v American Naval Stores Co.
119 Fed. Rep. 391, Conklin v U S. Shtpbuildingq Cc., I2"
Fed. Rep. 913.
These decisions show a system of procedure which,.
perhaps not complete or incapable of improvement, is far
superior to that which this court was urged to adopt in Booth
v Clark. It is a system now universally understood. It
works smoothly m practice. It effectively protects the rights
of pQssible creditors in each jurisdiction where assets are found,
by compelling.the foreign receiver to give reasonable security
and to submit himself to the orders of the local court before
\removing assets which may be needed to meet the claims of
domcstic creditors. It provides a convenient forum in which
-while

GREAT WESTERN MINING CO. v. HARRIS.
198 U. S.

573

Opinion of the Court.

such creditors may prove their claims. It enables the receiver
appointed by a foreign court, without delay or publicity or
unreasonable expense, to qualify himself to collect or impound
assets properly forming part of the estate under administration. It avoids unseemly conflicts of judicial authority It
provides a central tribunal for the determination of those
questions of general policy which mist be decided with reference to a great system of railways of a great business undertaking, while leaving to local tribunals full power over questions of a local nature. The courts of the several States and
the legal profession throughout the United States are gradually conforming .their practice to the standard thus established.
As to the claim that the right of the court appointing the receiver to authorize him to sue in the name of a party is absolute,
and does not rest on comity, the court can no more invest the
receiver with the name, identity and citizenship of a party for
the purpose of suit in a foreign jurisdiction than it can confer
on him a defendant's complexion, reputation, chirography or
good health. In re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 310.
MR. JusTICu DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The theory of the complainant's case seems to be that the
transfers of the stock of the defendant and other directors and
stockholders, paid for out of the proceeds of the bonds, in view
of the allegations of the bill as to the condition of the company
and the purposes in view by the defendant and associates,
amounted to a breach of duty upon the part of the defendant
and other directors, and a conversion to their own use of the
property of the company, for which they should be held to account in an action brought by the company through its receiver, under the order of the Circuit Court of Kentucky The
particulars of the suit in which the receiver was appointed are
not very fully set forth, but enough appears to show that he

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

-was appointed in a suit to adjudicate and enforce liens and
subject the property to the payment of the claims of creditors.
In the brief of the learned counsel for complainant, it is styled a
"general creditors' and foreclosure suit." It does not appear
that by,order(of the court or otherwise there has been any conveyance of -he )property and assets of the company to the
receiver, nor Uhas the corporation been dissolved, and the recciver made fts successor, eftitled to its property and assets.
The &minute bodks 4 the mmpany in evidence do not show
any authority 4y the corpration for the filing of this bill in
the name of -the (Great Western Mining and Manufacturmg
Company or otherwse, although meetings were held after the
appoitment of flhe eceiver. Nor is our attention called to
any statute vesftig ;The title aof the corporation in the receiver.
So far, then, as the receiver is concerned, -is right to prosecute
the action must depend upon his powers as such officer of the
court and the order of the court, set forth in the statement of
facts, authorizing -him to bring suit against the stockholders
and directors for the purpose of realizing the assets, either in
his own name or that of the corporation, as may be proper.
This condition of the record brings up for consideration at
the threshold of this case the question of the extent of the
power of the receiver to niaintam this action under the order
of the court, either m his own name or that of the company
As to the power of the court to authorize the receiver to sue,
we think the case is ruled by Booth v Clark,,17 How 322, 338,
in which case the authority of the court to authorize a receiver
appointed in one jurisdiction to sue in a foreign jurisdiction
was the subject of very full consideration. In that case it was
held that a receiver is an officer of the court which appoints
him, and, in the absence of some conveyance or statute vesting
the property of the debtor in him, he can not sue m courts of a
foreign jurisdiction upon the order of the court which appointed him, to recover the property of the debtor. While
that case was decided in 1854, its authority has been frequently recognized in this court, and as late as Hale v Allinson,

GREAT WESTERN MINING CO. v. HARRIS.
198 U.S.

575

Opimon of the Court.

188 U. S. 56, it was said by Mr. Justice Peckham, who delivered
the opinion of the court:
"We do not think anything has been said or decided in this
court which destroys or limits the controlling authority of
that case."

In that case the following language, as to a receiver's powers,
from Booth v Clarki supra, is quoted with approval:
"He has no extraterritorial power of official action, none
which the court appointing him can confer, with authority to
enable hun to go into a foreign jurisdiction to take possession
of the debtor's property; none which can give him, upon the
principle of comity, a privilege to sue in a foreign court or
another jurisdiction, as the judgment creditor himself might
have done, where his debtor may be amenable to the tribunal
which the creditor may seek."
Mr. Justice Wayne, who delivered the opinion of the court
in Booth v Clark, stated, among others, the following reasons
for refusing to recognize the powers of a receiver in foreign
jurisdictions:
"We think that a receiver could not be admitted to the
comity extended to judgment creditors, without an entire
departure from chancery proceedings, as to the manner of his
appointment, the securities which are taken from him for the
performance of his duties, and the direction which the court
has over him in the collection of the estate of the debtor, and
the application and distribution of them. If he seeks to be
recognized in another jurisdiction, it is to take the fund there
out of it, without such court having any control of his subsequent action in respect to it, and without his having even
official power to give security to the court, the aid of which
he seeks, for his faithful conduct and official accountability
All that could be done upon such an application from a receiver, according to chancery practice, would be to transfer
hun from" the locality of his appointment to that where he
asks to be recognized, for the execution of his trust in the last,
under the coercive ability of that court; and that it would be

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court

198 U. S.

difficult to do, where it may be asked to be done, without the
court exercising its province to determine whether the suitor,
or another person within its jurisdiction, was the proper person
to act as receiver."
It will thus be seen that the decision in Booth v Clark rests
upon the principle that the receiver's right to sue in a foreign
jurisdiction is not recognized upon principles of comity, and
the court of his appointment can clothe him with no power
to exercise his official duties beyond its jurisdiction. The
ground of this conclusion is that every jurisdiction, in which
it is sought by means of a receiver to subject property to the.
control of the court, has the right and power to determine for
itself who the receiver shall be, and to make such distribution
of the funds realized within its own jurisdiction as will' protect the rights of local parties interested therein, and not permit a foreign court to prejudice the rights of local credftors by
removing assets from the local jurisdiction without an order
of the court or its approval as to the officer who shall act in
the holding and distribution of the property recovered. In
Quncy &c. RailroadCo. v Humphreys, 145 U. S. 82, the powers
of a receiver were, under consideration, and the following
language was quoted with approval (p. 98) "The ordinary
chancery receiver, such as we -have in tus case, is clothed
with no estate in the property, but is a mefe custodian of it
for the court; and, by special authority, may become an officer
of the court to effect a sale of the property, if that be deemed
necessary for-the benefit of the parties concerned." There are
exceptional cases, such as Relie v Rundle, 103 U. S. 222, in
which the entire property of the insolvent company was vested
in the superintendent of insurance of the State, where his
authority did notc6me from the decree of the court, and his
right to sue was maintained. In Hawkzns v. Glenn, 131 U. S.
319, it appeared that Glenn had derived title by assignment
and deed and lie was permitted to sue. In the case now before
us it does not appear that the receiver had any other title to
the assets and property of the company than that derived from

GREAT WESTERN MKINING CO. r. HARRIS.
108 U. S.

577

Opinion of the Court.

his official relation thereto as receiver under the order of the
court. In such a case we think the doctrine of Booth v Clark
is fully applicable. It is doubtless because of the doctrine
therein declared that the practice has become general in the
courts of the United States, where the property of a corporation' is situated in more than one jurisdiction, to appoint ancillary receivers of the propeity in such separate jurisdictions. It
is true that the ancillary receiverships are generally conducted
in harmoiny with the -court of original jurisdiction, but suchreceivers are appointed with a view of vesting control of property rights in the court in whose jurisdiction they are located.
If the powers of a chancery receiver in the Federal courts should.
be extended so as to authorize suits beyond the jurisdiction ofthe court appointing him, to recover property in foreign jurisdictions, such enlargement of -authority should come from
legislativa and.not judicial action.
Nor do we think the jurisdiction is established because the
action is authorized to be instituted by the receiver in the name,
of the corporation. Such actions subjecting. local assets to- a
foreign jurisdiction and to a foreign receivership would come
within the reasoning'of Booth v Clark. If a recovery be had,
a1though in the name of the corporation, the property would
be turned over to the receiver, to be by hun administered
under the order of the court appointing him.
It is urged that jurisdiction in this case -is sustained by the
.case of Great Western Tel. Co. v Purdy, 162 U. S.329, in wluch
it was held that the assets and affairs of an insolvent corporation being in the hands of a receiver, the court might direct
the calls or assessments upon delinquent shareholders who
had not paid for their shares, thereby using the authority the
directors might have exercised before the appointment of the
receiver. In that case, a receiver appointed by the Circuit
Court of Cook County, in Illinois, under the direction of that
court brought an action in the name of the Great Western
Telegraph Company, an Illinois corporation, by its receiver,
against Purdy, a citizen of Iowa, to recover a.sum alleged to
VOL. OXOVII-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court,

198 U. S.

be due from him upon an assessment upon his stock subscription, and- it was held that the Illinois court might make the
assessment and calls necessary to collect the stock which
would be binding in another court. The jurisdiction of the
Iowa court was not called in question in the state court of
Iowa, where the original action was brought, nor was the
question of jurisdiction raised in this court, or passed upon in
deciding the case. While not detracting from the authority
of that case as to thematter decided, we see nothing in it to
indicate that had the question herein presented been made
it would have been decided otherwise than herein indicated.
There are numerous and conflicting decisions in the state
courts as to the rights of a receiver to sue in a foreign jurisdiction upon principles of comity, which it is not necessary to
review here. In this court, since the case of Booth v. Clark,
supra, we deem the practice to be settled, and to limit a receiver, who derives his authority from his appointment as
such, to actions, either in his own name, or that of an insolvent
corporation, to such as may be authorized. within the jurisdiction wherein he was appointed.
We think the Circuit Court of Appeals was right in holding
that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of this action.
This view of the case renders it unnecessary to consider the
other questions made in 'the record.
Decree affirned.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

concurs in the decree.

