UNITED STATES v. JU TOY.
198 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Board of Trade, 196 .Illinois, 396. We are of opinion that the
plaintiff is entitled to an injunction as prayed.
Decree rn No. 224 reversed. Decree in No. 280 affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLA,
JUSTICE DAY dissent.

MR. JUSTICE

BREWER

and

MR.

UNITED STATES v. JU TOY
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 5. Argued April 3, 1905.-Decided May 8,19M.
Even though the Fifth Amendment does apply to one seeking entrance to
this country, and to deny him admission may deprive him of liberty, due
process of law does not necessarily require a judicial trial and Congress
may entrust the decision of his right to enter to an executive officer.
Under the Chinese exclusion, and the immigration, laws, where a person of
Chinese descent asks admssion to the United States, claiming that he
is a native born citizen thereof, and the lawfully designated officers find
that he is not, and upon appeal that finding is approved by the Secretary
of Commerce and Labor, and it does not appear that there was any abuse
of discretion, such finding and action of the executive officers should be
treated by the courts as having been made by a competent tribunal,
with due process of law, and as final and coiclusive; and m habeas corpus proceedings, commenced thereafter, and based solely on the ground
of the applicant's alleged citizenship, the court should dismiss the writ
and not direct new and further evidence as to the question of citizenship.
A person whose right to enter the United States is questioned under the
immigration laws is to be regarded as if he had stopped.at the limit of
its jurisdiction, although physically he may be within its boundaries.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr"Aswstant Attorney General McReynolds for the United
States:
Congress by constitutional enactments has entrusted to
executive officers as a special tribunal determination of all

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

198 U. S.

questions of fact-including a claim of citizenship-relating
to the right of Chinese to enter the United States; and a bare
allegation of citizenship is not enough to support a petition
for habeas corpus by one denied admission.
United States v Sing Tuck, 194 U S. 161, settled that a
Chinaman seeking admission into the United States because of
alleged birth therein must in the first instance submit his claim
to the determination of immgration officers. Such officers have
a right to decide upon all questions of fact, including that of
citizenship. The applicant may not ignore them and appeal
directly to the courts for determination of his rights. A writ
of habeas corpus should not be granted until lie has prosecuted
an appeal to the Secretary of Commerce and Labor as provided by the statute. After the Secretary has, upon appeal,
affirmed the action of immigration officers excluding a Chinaman a petition for habeas corpus should not be entertained
unless the court is satisfied petitioner can make out a przma
face case; a mere allegation of citizenship is not enough.
Whether after final rejection by the Secretary there ought
to be a further trial upon habeas corpus upon a petition showing reasonable cause was not decided.
In behalf of Sing Tuck it was earnestly insisted that a
claim of citizenship is a judicial question, determination of
which is granted exclusively to the courts by Art. 3, § 2, of
the Constitution, and Congress has no power to entrust it to
executive officers; moreover, to require an applicant for admission to submit such a claim to an imnigration officer
violates the prohibition of the Fifth Amendment that no
person shall be deprived of his liberty without due process of
law See also Lem Moon Sing v United States, 158 U. S.538,
546, Chin Bak Kan v United States, 186 U. S.193, 200; Japanese Em grantCase, 189 U. S. 86, 97. As to due process of law
not always requiring a proceeding before a court and power
of Congress to delegate matters to executive officers see
Murray v Hoboken. Co., 18 How 272, 280; Sprnnger v.
United States, 102 U. S.586, 594, Hilton v. Men-ritt, 110

UNITED STATES v. JU TOY.
1120 TT A.

A 'unent for the United States.

-

U. S. 97, 107, Robertson v Baldunn, 165 U. S. 275, Fong Yue
Ting v. United States, 149 U S. 698, 713, Public Clearing
House v Coyne, 194 U. S. 497, 508. Bushnell v Leland, 164
U. S. 684.
In both England and America the rule is that probable
cause must first be shown to obtain the writ of habeas corpus,
whether it be granted at common law or under the statute.
Church on Hab. Corp., 2d ed., § 92; Ex parte Watktns, 3 Pet.
193, Ex parte MUlligan, 4 Wall. 2, 110; Ex parte Royall, 117
U. S. 250; Ex parte Terry, 128 U S. 301.
Where the law has confided to a special tribunal authority
to hear and determine matters arising in the course of its
duties, a decision by it within the scope of its authority as
to questions of fact is conclusive against collateral attack.
Where the jurisdiction depends upon a question of fact which
is the very gist of the controversy, the determination of that
is generally final. Gonzales v United States, 192 U S. 1,
United States v Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 729; Quimby v Canlan, 104 U. S. 420, 425, United States v Californsa &c. Land
Co., 148 U. S. 31, 43.
Where the decision of questions of fact is committed by
Congress to the head of a Department, his decision thereon
is conclusive; and even upon mixed questions of law and
of fact, or of law alone, his action carries a strong presumption of its correctness and the courts will not ordinarily review it, although they may have the power, and will
occasionally exercise the right of so doing. Cases supra and
Foley v Harrison, 15 How 447, Rubber Co. v Goodyear, 9
Wall. 798, Shepley v Cowan, 91 U S. 340; Moore v Robbins,
96 U. S. 535, Steel v Snelttng Co., 106 U S. 450; Hadden v
Merritt, 115 U. S. 25, Lee v Johnson, 116 U S. 51, Heath v

Wallace, 138 U. S. 585, Burfenntng v Chs., St; P &c. Ry.,
163 U S. 323, Bushnell v Leland, 164 U S. 684, Gardner v
Bonesteel, 180 U. S. 369; Bates & Guild Co. v Payne, 194
U S. 106.
Where the jurisdiction of a tribunal of special or limited

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

198'U. S.

authority may be said to depend upon the existence of a
certain state of facts which it must pass upon, its decision
thereon, if there was any evidence on which to base it, must
be held final and conclusive in all collateral inquiries. Cooley's
Const. Lim., 7th ed., 586, and authorities there cited, 17
Am. & Eng. Eney of Law, 2d 'ed., 1085, and authorities there
cited, Church on Hab. Cor 3., 2d ed., 381, 517, Peopleex
rel. Tweed v Lzscomb, 60 N. Y 559, 568, PNopie's Bank v
Wilcox, 15 R. I. 258, Evansville &a. R. R. Co. v Evansville,
15 Indiana, 395, Brittarnv Kinnasrd, 1 B. & B. 432; Simmons
v Saul, 138 U. S. 439, 452, New Orleans v Fisher, 180 U. S.
185, Wanzer v Howland, 10 Wisconsin, 8, 16, Comstock v
Crawford, 3 Wall. 402; Thompson v Whitman, 18 Wall. 457,
468.
A habeas corpus 'proceeding is collateral to one the validity
of which is attacked thereby In re Lennon, 166 U. S. 548,
553, Ex parte Watkzns, 3 Pet. 193.
The function of habeas corpus is to test the legality of confinement, and unless that appears contrary to law the writ
should not be granted. Immigration officers are required to
exclude every Chinaman who fails to show before them a right
of entry The detention necessary to secure return of an
excluded one can not be illegal unless the exclusion resulted
from fraud or mistake or from some illegal or unwarranted
action by the officers in the proceedings before them.
The purpose of a writ of habeas corpus is to inquire into the
legality of the confinement,, and unless the court finds such
confinement contrary to law the writ should be dismissed.
Ekzu v United States, 142 U S. 651, 662; Ex parte Curtms, 106
U. S. 375, Wales v. Whitney, 114 U S. 571, Carter v. McClaughry, 183 U. S. 381. Unless the return to a writ of habeas
corpus is in some way traversed the facts therein stated- must
be taken as true. Crowley v Christensen, 137 U S. 94. The
writ of habeas corpus can not properly be used to perform the
function of a writ of error or appeal. Ex parte Watkzns, 3
Pet. 201; Waes v. Whitney, 114 U. S. 571.

UNITED STATES v. JU TOY.
198 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

Mr Hayden Johnsonj with whom Mr Henry C. Dibble and
Mr Oliver Dibble were on the brief, for appellee.
It appears that the District Court found as a fact, upon
evidence taken contradictorily with the United States that
appellee was born in the United States and is a citizen 6f the
United States.
The legal presumption is that this judgment was based upon
sufficient legal evidence and that the judgment is valid, assuming that the court had jurisdiction to. issue the writ and was
not concluded from trying the matter by the previous adverse
decision of the immigration officials, as contended by the
Government.
Such persons as the appellee are citizens of the United
States and are entitled to all the rights of citizenship. The
Chinese exclusion and restriction laws do not apply to them.
United States v Wong Kim Ark, 169 U S. 653. As citizens,
they have the right to travel abroad and to return to the United
States. If the oconteiition .of the Governmelit in this behalf
is sustained,, they must do so at the peril of being excluded
and deported by immigration officers appointed to deal with
objectionable aliens, and they must be denied the right of
appeal to the courts for a judicial determination of the claun
of citizenship.
Citizenship is a right of incalculable value. It is a right of
which a man. cannot be deprived, constitutionally, except by
due process of law- In*this connection it is the exact equivalent of the right of liberty Due process of law, in this regard,
is judicial process-the right and opportunity to be heard in
a judicial tribune of competent jurisdiction.
No act of Congress can be construed or understood to be
a bar to a judicial hearing and determination of the question of
citizenship. Gee- Fook Sing v Un.iited States, 49 Fed. Rep. 146.
The act of August 18, 1894, under which it is asserted by
the Government in this proceeding that the immigration
officials. may finally pass upon the claim of a native. Chinese
+o the right of citizenship, applies in terms to aliens only-- VOL. cxOViII-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opion of the Court.

198 U. S.

This court held in the case of Sing Tuck, 194 U. S. 160, that
the immigration officials. must determine in the first instance
the claim of nativity when preferred by an arriving:Chinese
and that a writ of habeas corpus should not issue until such
claim has been passed upon in an orderly manner by the
Department of Commerce and Labor. The Government now
seeks to obtain a decision that the determination by the
Department as to the claim of' nativity is and must be final.
But Congress has not said that such decision shall be final.
The act relied upon applies to aliens only, as already said.
There is no rule of law under which it can be contended that
such a decision is final. Johnson v Towsley, 13. Wall. 83.
Due process of law in a matter affecting the right of a man
to be free-the claim of the right to be and remain in one's
native land and not to be deported therefrom, certainly involves the right of personal liberty-due process of law in this
regard implies the right to have that right 'determined in a
judicial proceeding by a constitutional court of justice. The
proceeding may be never so summary, still, these fundamental rules' and rights must be recognized and accorded.
Citizens of Chinese descent constitute a class of persons
-a class of citizens. Can it be contended that Congress has
the constitutional power to suspend the writ of habeas corpus
or to deny the right of the writ to any class of citizens?
Habeas corpus is the proper and the only remedy in these
cases. In re Jew Wong Loy, 91 Fed. Rep. 240; In re Jung
Ah Lung, 25 Fed. Rep. 141, aff'd 124 U S. 621.
MR. JuSTiCF. HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes here on a certificate from the Circuit Court
of Appeals presenting certain questions of law It appears
that the appellee, being detained by the master of the Steamship Doric for return to China, presented a petition for habeas
corpzis to the Distrit Court, alleging that he was a native-born
citizen of the United States. returning after a temporary

UNITED STATES v. .JU TOY
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

departure, and was denied permission to land by the collector
of the port of San Francisco. It also appears from the petition that he took an appeal from the denial, and that the
decision was affirmed by the Secretary of Commerce and
Labor. No further grounds are stated. The writ issuetl and
the United States made return, and answered showing all the
proceedings before the Department, which are not denied to
have been in regular form, and setting forth all of the evidence
and the orders made. The answer also denied the allegations
of the petition. Motions to dismiss the writ were made on
the grounds that the decision of the Secretary was conclusive
and that no abuse of authority was shown. These were denied,
and the District Court decided seemingly on new evidence,
subject to exceptions, that Ju Toy was a native-born citizen
of the United States. An appeal was taken to the Circuit
Court of Appeals alleging errors the nature of which has been
indicated. Thereupon the latter court certified the following
questions:
"First. Should a District Court of the United States grant
a writ of habeas corpus in behalf of a person of Chinese descent
being held for return to China by the steamship company
which brought him therefrom, who having recently arrived
at a port of the United States made application to land as a
native-born citizen thereof and who, after examination by
the duly authorized immigration officers, was found by them
not to have been born in the United States, was denied admission and ordered deported, which finding and actioji upon
appeal was affirmied by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor,
when the foregoing facts appear to the court and the petition
for the writ alleges unlawful detention on the sole ground
that petitionei does not come within the restrictions of the
Chinese exclusion acts, because born in and a citizen of the
United States and does not allege or show in any other way
unlawful action or abuse of their discretion or powers by the
immigration officers who excluded him?
"Second. In a habeas corpus proceeding should a District

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opmion df the Cur.

198 U. S.

Court of the United States dismiss the writ or should it direct
a new or further hearing upon evidence to be presented where
the writ had been granted in behalf of a person of Chinese
descent being held by the steamship company for return to
China from. whence it brought him, who recently arrived from
that country and asked permission to land upon the ground
that he was born in and was a citizen of the United States,
when the uncontradicted return and answer show that such
person was granted a hearing by the proper immigration
officers who found he was not born in the United States, that
his application for admission was considered and denied by
such officers, and that the denial was affirmed upon appeal
to the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, and where nothing
more appears to show that such executive officers failed to
grant a proper hearing, abused their discretion, or acted in
any unlawful or improper way upon the case presented to
them for determination?
"Third. In a habeas corpus proceeding in a District Court
of the United States instituted in behalf of a person of'Chinese
descent being held for- return to China by the steamship company which recently brought him therefrom to a port of the
United States and who applied for admission therein upon
the ground that he was a native-born citizen thereof but who,
after a hearing, the lawfully designated immigration officers
found was not born therein and to whom they denied admission which finding and denial, upon appeal to the Secretary
of Commerce and Labor, was affirmed-should the court treat
the finding and action of such executive officers upon the
question of citizenship and other questions of fact as having
been made by a tribunal authorized to decicl the same and
as final and conclusive unless it be made affirmatively to
appear that such officers, in the case submitted to them,
abused the discretion vested in them or in some other way
inhearing and determining the same committed prejudicial
error?"
We assume in what we have to say, as the questions assume,

UNITE)
198 U. S.

STATES v., JU TOY

Opinion of the Court.

that no abuse of authority of any kind is alleged. That being
out of the case, the first of them is answered by the case of
United States v Sing Tuck, 194 U S. 161, 170. "A petition
for habeas corpus ought not to be entertained, unless the
court is satisfied that the petitioner can make out at l'ast a
prima face case." This petition should have been denied
on this ground, irrespective of what more we have to say,
because it alleged nothing except citizenship. It disclosed
neither' abuse of authority nor the existence of evidence not
laid before the Secretary It did not even set forth that
evidence or allege its effect. But as it was entertained
and the .District Court found for the petitioner it would
be a severe measure to order the petition to be dismissed
on that ground now, and we pass on to further considera.tions.
The broad question is presented whether or not the decision
of the Secretary of Commerce and Labor is conclusive. It was
held in United States v Sing Tuck, 194 U. S. 161,, 167, that
the act of August 18, 1894, c. 301, § 1, 28 Stat. 372, 390,
purported to make it so, but whether the statute could have
that effect constitutionally was left untouched, except by a
reference to cases where an opinion already had been expressed. To quote the latest first, in The Japanese Immigrant Case (Yamataya v Fisher), 189 U S. 86, 97, it was said.
"That Congress may exclude aliens of a particular race from
the United States; prescribe the terms and conditions upon
which certain classes of aliens may come to this country;
establish regulations for sending out of the country such
aliens as come here in violation of law; and commit the enforcement of such provisions, conditions and regulations exclusively to executive officers, without judicial intervention,
are principles firmly established by the decisions of this court."
See also Turner v Williams, 194 U S. 279, 290, 291, Chin
Bak Kan v.. United States, 186 U S. 193, 200. In Fok Young
Yo v United States, 185 U. S. 296, 304, 305, it was held that
the decision of the collector of customs on the right of transit

262-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

across the territory of the United States was conclusive, and,
still more to the point, in Len. Moon Sing v United States,
158 U S. 538, where the petitioner for habeas corpus alleged
facts which, if true, gave him a right to enter and remain in
the country, it was held that the decision of the collector
was final as to whether ornot he belonged to the privileged
class.
It is true that it may be argued that these cases are not
directly conclusive of the point now under decision. It may
be said that the parties concerned were aliens, and that although they alleged absolute rights, and facts which it was
contended went to the jurisdiction of the officer making the
decision, still, their rights were only treaty or statutory rights,
and therefore were subject to the implied qualification imposed by the later statute, which made the decision of the
collector with regard to them final. The meaning -of the cases
and the language which we have quoted is not satisfied by
so narrow an interpretation, but we do not delay upoi them.
They can be read.
It is established, as-we have said, that the act purports to
make the decision of the Department final, whatever the ground
on which the right to enter the country is claimed-as well
when it is citizenship as when it is domicil and the belonging
to a class excepted from the exclusion acts. United States v
Sing Tuck, 194 U. S. 161, 167, Lem Moon Sing v United
States, 158 U S. 538, 546, 547 It also is established by the
former case and others which it cites-that the relevant portion
of the act of August 18, 1894, c. 301, is not void as a whole.
The statute has been upheld and enforced. But the relevant
portion being a single section, accomplishing all its results by
the same general words, must be valid as to all thaf it embraces, or altogether void. An exception of a class constitutionally exempted-cannot be read into those general words
merely for the purpose of saving what remains. That has been
decided over and over again. United States v Reese, 92 U. S.
214, 221, Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U S. 82, 98, 99; Allen v

UNITED STATES 'v. JU TOY
198 U, S.

Opimon of the Court.

Loumana, 103 U S. 80, 84, United States v Hams, 106 U S.
629, 641, 642; Virgnsa Coupon Cases, 114 U S. 269, 305,
Baldunn v Franks, '120 U S. 678, 685-689; Smiley v Kansas, 196 U. S. 447, 455. It necessarily follows that when
such words are sustained they are sustained to their fiul extent.
In view of the cases which we have cited it seems no longer
open to discuss the question propounded as a new one. Therefore we do not analyze 'the nature of the right of a person presenting himself at the frontier for admission. In re Ross, 140
U. S. 453, 464-. But it is not improper to add a few words.
The petitioner, although physically within our boundaries, is
to be regarded as if he had been stopped at the limit of our
jurisdiction and kept there while his right to enter was under
debate. If, for the purpose of argument, we assume that the
Fifth Amendment applies to him and that to deny entrance
to a citizen is to deprive him of liberty, we nevertheless are of
opinion that with regard to him due process of law does not
requirea judicial trial. That is the result of the cases which
we have cited and the almost necessary result. of the power of
Congress to pass exclusion laws. That the decision may be
entrusted to an executive officer and that his decision is due
process of law was affirmed and explained m Nishtmura Eksu
v United States, 142. U S. 651, 660, and in Fong Yue Ting v
United States, 149 U. S. 698, 713, before the authorities to
which we already have referred. It is unnecessary 'to repeat
the often quoted remarks of Mr. Justice Curtis, speaking for
the whole court in Murray's Lessee v Hoboken Land & Improvement Co., 18 How 272, 280, to show that the requirement of a judicial trial does not prevail in every case. Lem
Moon Sing v t]nited States, 158 U S. 538, 546, 547, Japanese
Immigrant Case, 189 U. S, 86, 100; Public Cleamng House v
Coyne, 194 U. S. 497, 508, 509.
We are of opinion that the first question should be answered, no, that the third question should be answered, yes,
with the result that the second question should be answered

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BhEWER and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

198 U. S.

that the writ should be dismissed, as it should have been
dismissed in this case.
It will be so certified:
'MR.

JUSTICE BREWER,

with whom MR.

JUSTICE

ECKHAM

concurred, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the views expressed in the foregoing opinion, and, believing the matter of most profound
importance, I give my reasons therefor.
Ju Toy presented his petition to the United States District
Court at San Francisco, alleging that he was a native-born
citizen of the United States; that he was a resident of the
United States, temporarily absent and returning to the city
and State in which he was born, that the collector of the
port of San Francisco refused to permit hun to land, and
that he was detained by the general manager of the steamship company in whose vessel he came to San Francisco forreturn to China. A writ of habeas corpus was issued, and
thereupon the "District Attorney, in behalf of the United
States, answered, setting up the. application for landing, a
hearing and denial thereof by the immigration officer, an appeal to the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, -and his action
approving that of the imugration officer, and with the answer exhibited a copy of all the evidence offered upon the
hearing and the orders by the officer and the Secretary Thereupon a motion was made by the District Attorney to dismiss
the writ, on the ground substantially that it did not appear
that the immigration officer or the Secretary of Commerce and
Labor abused the discretion vested in them by law or that
their action was unlawful or that any error prejudicial to the
petitioner was committed. This motion to dismiss was overruled and the cause referred to a referee to take evidence.
Upon the testimony taken by him the referee reported that
the petitioner was born in the United States and a citizen
thereof. Exceptions to this report were filed by the District

UNITED STATES v. JU TOY
198 U. S.

BREWER and PEcKHAm, JJ., dissenting.

Attorney, which were overruled by the court, and thereupon
judgment was entered that the petitioner was illegally restramied of his liberty and that he be discharged from custody
An appeal from this order was taken to the Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit, which court certified to us the followii'
questions:
"First. Should a District Court of the United States grant
a writ of habeas corpus in behalf of a person of Chinese descent
being ield for return to China by the steamship company
which brought hun therefrom, who having recently arrived at
a port of the United States made application to land as a
native-born citizen thereof, and who, after examination by
the duly authorized immigration officers, was found by them.
not to have been born in the United States, was denied admission and ordered deported, which finding and action upon
appeal'was affirmed by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor,
when the foregoing facts appear to the court and the petition
for the writ alleges unlawful detention on the sole ground that
petitioner does not come within the restrictions of the Chinese
exclusion acts, because born in and a citizen of the United
States, and does not allege or show in any other way unlawful
action or abuse of their discretion or powers by the immigration officers who excluded him?
"Second. In a habeas corpus proceeding should a Distri..
"Court of the United States dismiss the writ or should it direct
a new or further hearing upon evidence to be presented where
-the writ had been granted in behalf of a person of Chinese
descent being held by the steamship company for return to
China from whence it brought him, who recently arrived from
that country and asked permission to land upon the ground
that he was born in and was a citizen of the United States,
when the uncontradicted return and answer show that such
person was granted a hearing by the proper immigration
officers who found he was not born in the United States, that
his application for admission was considered and denied by
such officers, and that the denial was affirmed upon appeal to

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER and PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

198 U. S.

the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, and where nothing
more appears to show that such executive officers failed to
grant a proper hearing, abused their discretion, or acted in
any unlawful or improper way upon the case presented to
them for determination?
"Third. In a habeas corpus proceeding in a District Court
of the United States instituted in behalf of a person of Chinese
descent being held for return to China by the steamship company which recently brought him therefrom to a port of the
United States and who applied for admission therein upon the
ground that he was a native-born citizen thereof, but who,
after a hearing, the lawfully designated immigration officers
found was not born therein and to whom they denied admission, which finding and deiiial, upon appeal to the Secretary
of Commerce and Labor,.was affirmed-should the court treat
the finding and action of such executive officers upon the question of citizenship and other questions of fact as having been
made by a tribunal authorized to decide the same and as final
and conclusive- unless it be made affirmatively to appear that
such officers, in the case submitted to them, abused the discretion vested in them or in some other way in hearing and
determining the same committedo prejudical error?"
'The proposition presented by these questions is that unless
the petitioner for a writ of habeas corpus shows that the immigration officers have been guilty of unlawful action or abuse
of their discretion or powers, the writ must be denied and the
petitioner banished from the country. In order to see what
action is lawful I refer to the rules prescribed under the authority hereinafter referred to. Rule 6.declares that "imit
mediately upon the arrival of Chinese persons
to adopt suitable
shall be the duty of the officer
means to prevent communication with them by any persons
other 'than the officials under.his control, to have said Chinese
persona examined promptly, as by law provided; tofichmg
their right to admission and to permit those proving such right
to land." Rules 7, 8, 9, 10 and 21 are as follows:

UNITED STATES v. JU TOY

188 U. S.

BRmW'Rn and PECMUM, JJ., dissenting.

"RUILE 7 The examination prescribed in Rule 6 should be
separate and apart from the public, in the presence of Government officials and such witness or witnesses only as the
examining officer shall designate, and, if, upon the conclusion
thereof, the Chinese applicant for admission is adjudged to be
inadmissible, he should be advised of his right of appeal and
his counsel should be permitted, after duly filing notice of
appeal, to examine, but not make copies of, the evidence upon
which the excluding decision is based.
"RULE 8. Every Chinese person refused admission under
the provisions of .the exclusion laws by the decision of the
officer in charge at the port of entry must, if he shall elect to
take an appeal to the Secretary, give written notice thereof
to said officer within two days after such decision is rendered.
"RULE 9. Notice of appeal provided for in Rule 8 shall.
act as a stay upon the disposal of the Chinese person whose
case is thereby affected until a final decision is rendered by
the Secretary; and, within three days after the filing of such
notice, unless further delay is required to investigate and
report upon -new evidence, the complete record of the case,
together with such briefs, affidavits, and statements as are
to be considfed in connection therewith, shall be forwarded
to the Commissioner General of Immigration by the officer
in charge at the port of arrival, 'accompanied by his views
thereon in writing; but on such appeal no evidence will be
considered that has not been made the subject of investigation and report by the said officer in charge.
"RuLE 10. Additional time for the preparation of cases
after the expiration of three days next succeeding the filing
of notice of appeal will be allowed only in those instances in
which, in the judgment of said officer in charge, a literal compliance with Rule 9 would occasion injustice to the appellant
or the risk of defeat of the purposes of the law, and the reasons
for delay beyond the time prescribed shall in every instance
be stated in writing, in the papers forwarded to the Commissioner General of Immigration."

OCTOBER TER31, 1904.
BUWER nand PECKHAi, JJ., dissenting.

198 U. S.

"RULE, 21. The burden of proof in all cases rests upon
Chinese persons claiming the right of admission to or residence within the United States to establish such right affirmatively and satisfactorily to the appropriate Government officers, and in no case in which the law prescribes the nature
of the evidence to establish such right shall, other evideince
be accepted in lieu thereof, and in every doubtful case the
benefit of the doubt shall be given by administrative officers
to the United States Government."
It .ill be seen that under ^these rules it is the duty of the
immigration officer to prevent communication with the Chinese
seeking to land by any one except his own officers. He is to
conduct a private examination, with only. the witnesses present
whom he may designate. His counsel, if under the circumstances the Chinaman has been able to procure one, is permitted to look at the testimony but not to make a copy of it.
He must give notiae of appeal, if he wishes one, within two
days, and within three days thereafter the record is to be sent
to the Secretary at Washiligton, and every doubtful question
is to be settled in favor of the Government. No provision is
made for summoning witnesses from a distance or for taking
depositions, and if, for mstance,the person landing at San
Francisco was born and brought up i Ohio, it may well be
that he would be powerless to find any testimony in San
Francisco to prove his citizenship. It he does not happen to
have money he must go without the testimony, and when
.the papers are sent to Washington (three thousand miles
away from the port, which in this case was the place of landing)
he may not have the means of employing counsel to present
his case to the Secretary If this.be not a star chamber proceeding of the-most strihgent sorz,...what more is necessary to
make it one?
I do not see how any one can read those rules and hold that
they constitute due process of law for the arrest and deportation of a citizen of the United States. If they do in proceedings by the United States they will also in proceedings in-

UNITED STATES v. JU TOY
198 U.S.

BRwEWR and PECAm, JJ., dissenting.

stituted by a State, and an obnoxious class may be put beyond
the protection of the Constitution by ministerial officers of a
State proceeding in strict accord with exactly similar rules.
It will be borne in mind that the petitioner has been judicially determined to be a free-born American citizen, and the
contention of the Government, sustained by the judgment of
this court, is that a citizen, guilty of no crime-for it is no
crime for a citizen to come back to his native land-must by
the action of a ministerial officer be punished by deportation
and banishment, without trial by jury and without judicial
examination.
Such a decision is to my mind appalling. By all the authoritieg the banishment of a citizen is punishment, and punishment of the severest kind. In Fong Yue Ting v United
States, 149 U. S: 698, it was held by a majority of the court
that the removal from this country of an alien was ot a
punishment, Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for that majority,.
saying (p. 730).,
"The proceeding before a United States judge, as provided
for in section 6 of the act of 1892, is in no proper sense a trial
and sentence for a crime or offense. It is simply the ascertainment, by appropriate and lawful means, of the fact whether
the conditions exist upon which Congress has enadted that an
alien of this class may remain withm the country The order
of deportation is not a punishment for crime. It is not a
banishment, in the sense in which that word is often applied
to the expulsion of a citizen from his country by way -of punishment."
But it was not suggested, and indeed could not be, that the
deportation and exile of a citizen was not punishment. The
forcible removal of a citizen from his country is spoken of as
banishment, exile, deportation, relegation or transportation,
but by whatever name called it is always -considereda punishment. In Black's Law Dictionary "banishment" is defined
as "a punishment inflicted upon criminals, by compelling them
to quit a city, place, or country, for a specific period of. time,

OCTOBER TERMA, .1904.
Br EwER and PEcKR A , JJ., dissenting.

198 U. S.

or for life. It is mflicted principally upon political offenders,
'transportation' being the word used to express a similar
punishment of ordinary crimials." The same author defines
"exile" as banishment, and "transportation" as "a species
of punishment consisting in removing the criminal from his
own country to another (usually a penal colony), there to
remain in exile for a prescribed period." In Rapalj.e & Lawrence's Law Dictionary (vol. 1, page 109), "banishment" is
called. "A punishment by forced exile, either for years or for
life, inflicted principally upon political offenders, 'transportation' being the. word. used to express a similar punishment
of ordinary criminals." In 4 Bl. Com. 377 it is said. "Some
punishments consist in exile or banishment, by abjuration of
the realm, or transportation." Vattel Book 1, Sec. 228, declares: "As a man may be deprived of any right whatsoever
b3 way of punishment:--exile, which deprives him of the right
of dwelling in a certain place, may be inflicted as a punishment, banishment- is always one, for, a mark of infamy cannot be set on any one, but with a-view of punishing him for a
fault, either real or pretended."
President Madison, in his report on the Virginia resolutions
Aoncerning the alien and sedition laws, said (4 Elliott's Debates, 455), referring to the possibilities which attend a removal from the country, "if a banishment of this sort be not a
punishment, and among. the severest of punishments, it will
be difficult to imagine a doom to which the name can be
applied."
The twelfth section of the English Habeas Corpus Act, 31
Car. II, one of the three great muniments of English liberty,
enacted "that no subject of this realm, that now is or hereafter
shall be an inhabitant or resident of this kingdom of England,
dominion of Wales, or town of Berwick-upon-Tweed, shall or
may~be sent prisoner into Scotland, Ireland, Jersey, Guernsey,
Tangier, or into parts, garrisons, islands, or places beyond the
seas, which are or at any -time hereafter shall be within or
witthout the dominions of his majesty, his heirs or successors;

UNITED STATES v. JU TOY.
198 U. S.

BRmwm and PEC=EuM, JJ., dissenting.

and that every such imprisonment.is hereby enacted and adand the person or persons who
3udged to. be illegal,
shall knowingly frame, contrive, write,, seal, or countersign
aiy warrant for such commitment, detainer, or transportation, or shall so commit, detain, imprison, or transport any
person or persons, contrary to this act, or be any ways advising, aiding, or assisting therein, being lawfully convicted
thereof, shall be disabled from thenceforth to bear any office
of trust or profit within the said realm of England, dominion
of Wales, or town 'of Berwick-upon-Tweed, or any of the
islands, territories, or dominions thereunto belonging; and
shall incur and sustain the pains, penalties, and forfeitures
limited, ordained and provided in and by the statute of provision and praemunire, made in the sixteenth year of King
Richard II., and be mcapable of any pardon from the king,
his heirs or successors, of the said forfeitures, losses, or disabilities, or any of them."
It is true in this case the petitioner was returning to San
Francisco from China. Whether his absence from this country
had been for a few weeks or a few years is not shown, nor does
it matter. The right of a citizen is riot lost by a temporary
absence from his native land, and when he returns he is entitled to all the protection which he had when he left.
In Gonzales v Williams, 192 U S. 1, the petitioner, held in
custody by the immigration officers, sued out a habeas corpus
on the ground that she was not an alien immigrant. The
Circuit Court decided against her, but on appeal we discharged
her from custody, saying (p. 7)
"Ifshe was not an alien immigrant within the intent and
meaning of the act of Congress entitled 'An act in amendment
of the various acts relative to immigration and the importation of aliens under contract or agreement to perform labor,'
approved March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1084, c. 551, the commissioner had no power to detain or deport her, and the final order
of the Circuit Court must be reversed."
It istrue, the facts were admitted. So placing that case

OCOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER

and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

198 U. S.

alongside of this the result is that if the United States admits
that the petitioner is not an alien, he is entitled to his discharge. If he proves the fact, he is not entitled, but must
be deported. It was not suggested in that case that the
immigration officer had been guilty of any abuse of discretion
or powers, the only complaint being that he had ordered the
deportation of the petitioner, who was not an alien. That
same fact is alleged here, but is now adjudged insufficient to
prevent the deportation. In Gee Fook Sing v United States,
49 Fed. Rep. 146, 148, the Court of Appeals of the Ninth
Circuit held.
"That any person alleging himself to be a citizen of the
United States, and desiring to return to his country from a
foreign land, and that he is prevented from doing so without
due process of law, and who on that ground applies to any
United States court for a writ of habeas corpus, is entitled to
have a hearing and a judicial determination of the facts so
alleged, and that no act of Congress can be understood or
construed as a bar to such hearing and judicial determination."
See also In re Look Tin Sing, 21 Fed. Rep. 905, Ex pare
Chan San JIee, 35 Fed. Rep. 354, In re Yung Sing Hee, 36 Fed.
Rep. 437, In re Wy Shng, 36 Fed. Rep. 553. In the first of
these cases it was said by Mr. Justice Field (p. 910)
"Being a citizen, the law could not intend that he should
ever look to the government of a f~reign country for permission to return to the United States, and no citizen can be
excluded from this country except in punishment for crime.
Exclusion for any other cause is unknown to our laws, and
beyond the power of Congress."
In .Ex parte Tom Tong, 108 U. S. 556, 559, Mr. Chief Justice Waite said.
"The writ of habeas corpus is the remedy which the law
gives for the enforcement of the civil right of personal liberty "
In United States v Jung Ah Lung, 124 U S. 621, a petition
for habeas corpus by a Chinese laborer, it was held that-

UNITED STATES v. JU TOY.
198 U. S.

BsnwER and Pnmrzau,

JJ., dissenting.

"The jurisdiction of the court was not affected by the fact
that the collector had passed on the question of allowing the
person to land, or by the fact that the treaty provides for
diplomatic action in a case of hardship."
By the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution no person
can "be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law" It may be true, as decided m Murray's Lessee v.
Hoboken Land & Improvement Company, 18 How 272, an
action involving the validity of a distress warrant issued by
the Solicitor of the Treasury, that the requirement of a judicial
trial does not extend to every case, but as stated by Mr.
Justice Curtis in that case (p. 284) "To avoid misconstruction
upon so grave a subject, we think it proper to state that we do
not consider Congress can either withdraw from judicial cognizance any matter which, from its nature, is the subject of a
suit at the common law, or in equity, or admiralty; nor, on the
other hand, can it bring under the judicial power a matter
which, from its nature, is not a subject for judicial determination." And in Hager v Recdamatwn Dtrwt, 111 U S. 701,
708, it was held that "undoubtedly where life and liberty are
involved, due process requires that there be a regular course
of judicial proceedings, which imply that the party to be
affected shall have notice and al o.pportunity to be heard."
By Article III, sec. 2 of the Constitution, "the trial of all
crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury;"
and by the Fifth Amendment, "no person shall be held to
answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a
presentment or indictment of a grand jury"
Summing this up, banishment is a punishment and of the
severest sort. There can be no punishment except for crime.
This petitioner has been guilty of no crime, and so judicially
determined. Yet in defiance of this adjudication of innocence, with only an examination before a ministerial officer,
he is compelled to suffer punishment as a criminal, and is
denied the protection of either a grand or petit jury
But, it is said, that he did not prove his innocence before
VOL. CXcVIII-l' 8

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER and

PEC

Am,JJ., dissenting.

198 U. S.

the aministerial officer. Can one who judicially establishe8 his
innocence of any offense be punished for crime by the action
of a ministerial officer? Can he be punished because he has
failed to show to the satisfaction of that officer that he is
innocent of an offense? The Constitution declares that "the
privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended,
unless when in cases of invasiona or rebellion the public
safety may require it." There is no rebellion or invasion.
Can a citizen be deprived of the benefit of that so much
vaunted writ of protection by the action of a ministenal
officer?
By section 8 of the act of September 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 476,
the act prohibiting the coming of Chinese laborers, the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to mae rules and regulations to carry into effect the provisions of the statute. This
authority by subsequent legislation has been vested in the
Secretary of Commerce and Labor, by whom some sixty-one
rules have been announced. In the second rule it is provided that "if the Chinese, person has been born in the United
States, neither the immigration acts nor the Chmese-exclusion
acts prohibiting persons of the Chinese race, and especially
Chinese laborers, from coming into the United States apply
to such person." Rule 46 reads: "The provisions of the laws,
regulating immigration, excluding those which prescribe payment of the head tax, apply to the residents and natives of
Porto Rico and Philippine Islands, and, moreover, the provisions of the laws relating to the exclusion of Chinese apply
to all such persons as are of the Chinese race, except those
who are born in the United States." In other words, the
department rules exclude from the jurisdiction of the munmigration officers citizens of Chinese descent, and limit that
junsdictioi to Chinese aliens. In United-States v Wong Kim
Ark, 169 U S. 649, it is stated (p. 653)
"It is conceded that, if he is a citizen of the United States,
the acts of Congress, known as the Chinese exclusion acts,
prohibiting persons of the Chinese race, and- especially Chinese

UNITED STAEES v. J1 TOY.

198 U. S.

BREwER and PEcKH Am, JJ., dissenting.

laborers, from coming into the United States, do not and cannot apply to him."
By the act of August 18, 1894, 28 Stat. 372, 390, it is provided that "in every case where an alien is excluded from admission into the United States under any law or treaty now
existing or hereafter made, the decision of the appropriate
inmigration or customs officers,-if adverse to the admission of
such alien, shall be final, unless reversed on appeal tQ. the
Secretary of the Treasury" The same limitation of finality
to the case of .aliens is repeated in the act of March 3, 1903,
32 Stat. 1213. So it appears that this court discharged from
the custody of the immigration officers a person of Chinese
descent on the ground that he was a citizen of the United
States, doing this upon the concession of the Government that
if he was a citizen the exclusion acts had no application to
him, that Congress in terms makes the decision of the immigration officer final only when the party is an alien, and that
the rules prescribed by the proper department exclude from
the operation of the law citizens of the United States of Chinese
descent. Yet, in spite of all this, it is held that this citizen
of the United States must, by virtue of the ruling of a mmistenal officer, be banished from the country of which he is a
citizen. And this upon the ground that such officer has' a
right to decide whether he is or is not a citizen, and his decision
on the question excludes all judicial examination.
Let us see what have been the rulings of this court in other
cases, and first in respect to judicial decisions. In Thompson
v Whitman, 18 Wall. 457, Thompson, a sheriff of a county
in New Jersey, was sued by Whitman for taking and carrying
away a sloop, the property of the plaintiff, and jutified his
action by the judgment of a court, which had ordered the
sloop to be sold for violating a statute of New Jersey in reference to raking and gathering clams. There was thus a judicial
determination of the liability of the sloop to seizure and condemnation. Notwithstanding this judicial determination this
court held that the plaintiff might show, as a matter of fact,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BiwER and PzqcpA.!, JJ., dissenting.

198 U. S.

that the sloop was not within the limits of the State of New
Jersey, and therefore was not violating its statute. -In the
opinion, by Mr. Justice Bradley, this quotation was made from
the opinion of Chief Justice Marshall in Rose v Himely, 4
Cranch, 269"
" 'Upon principle,' says Chief Justice Marshall, 'it would
seem that the operation of every judgment must depend on
the power of the court to render that judgment; or, in other
words, on its jurisdiction over the subject-matter which it has
determined. In some cases that jurisdiction unquestionably
depends as well on the state of the thing as on the constitution of the court. If by any means whatever a. pHze court
should be. induced to condemn, as prize of war, a vessel which
was never captured, it could not be contended that this condemnation operated a change of property Upon principle,
then, it would seem that, to -a certain extent, the capacity of
the court to. act upon the thing condemned, arising from its
being within, or without, their jurisdiction, as well as the
constitution of the court, may be considered by that tribunal
which is to decide on the effect of the sentence.! "
Rose's "Notes on United States Reports" show that a
multitude of cases, both state and Federal, rely upon Thompson v Whitman as authority Among them is Scott v McNeal 154 U S. 34, in which it was held that a court of probate,
,having jurisdiction in the atimmistration of deceased persons,
had no jurisdiction to appoint an administrator of one who
was alive, although he had been absent and not heard from
for seven years, and that a sale made by the administrator
appointed in such a case passed no title. It was cited approvingly in Andrews .v Andrews, 188 U S. 14. There a
decree of divorce, rendered by a South Dakota court in a
,case in which both parties were in court and in which the court
found not only that there were sufficient grounds'for divorce,
but also that the plaintiff had-been a bona fide resident of
South Dakota for the statutory"length of time, and therefore
had the requisite status to give that court jurisdiction, could

UNITED STATES t. JU TOY.
198 U. S.

BniwEm and PE=EEAw JJ., dissenting.

be upset in Massachusetts by proof that the plaintiff was not
in fact a bona fide resident of South Dakota. The same case
was also relied upon as authority in Bell v Bell, 181 U S.
175, 177, where we said.
"No valid divorce from the bond of matrimony can be
decreed on constructive service-by the courts of a State in
which neither party is domiciled. And by the law of Pennsylvania every petitioner for a divorce must have had a bona
fide residence within the State for one year next before the
filing of the petition.
The recital in the proceedings in Pennsylvania of the facts necessary to show jurisdiction may be contradicted. Thompson v Whitman, 18 Wall.
457 "
I have always supposed that a judgment Df a court'of
competent jurisdiction was at least as conclusive as the find
ing of a ministerial officer, and that the -right of .personal liberty was as sacred in the eyes of the law as the title to a
sloop.
Turning now to the action of ministerial or administrative
officers, and what has been the uniform ruling of this court?
Take the Land Department. Questions of fact within the
undoubted jurisdiction of that Department are considered
as settled by its rulings. - But questions of fact upon which
its jurisdiction rests are never so regarded. Thus, whether a
tract of public land be swamp, mineral or agricultural, may
be finally determined by the Department, but whether a tract
is public land is not so determiied, and in all the multitude
of cases that have been presented to this court.it has never
even been suggested that a ruling of the Department that a
tract was public land was conclusive unless it appeared that
the Land Department was guilty of some abuse of its discretion or powers. The question, and the only question, has
been was the tract public land or not? In United States v
Stone, 2 Wall. 525, it appeared that a tract of land adjacent
to a military post had been at one time surveyed, and by that
survey was included within the military reservation. Sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BREWER

and PECnHAM, JJ., disenting.

198 U. S

sequently a new survey was had, by which this tract was
excluded, and thereafter it was, in due course of administration, patented. Thereupon this suit was brought to set aside
the patent. It was not suggested that the Land Department
had been guilty of any irregularity in administration, or had
not. proceeded in accordance with the established rules of
procedure, yet the court unanimously held that the patent
must be set aside, on the ground that the land was reserved
to the United States as a part of the military reservation by
the original survey In Smelting Company v Kemp, 104
U S. 636, 641, we said.
"Of course, when we speak of the conclusive presumptions
attending a patent for lands, we assume that it was issued m
a case where .the Department had jurisdiction to act and
execute it, that is to say, m a case where the lands belonged
to the United States, and provision had been made by law for
their sale. If they never were public property, or had previously been disposed of, or if Congress had made no provision
for their sale, or had reserved them, the Department would
have no jurisdiction to transfer them, and its attempted conveyance of them would be inoperative and void, no matter
with what seeming regularity the forms of law may have
been observed. The action of the Department would in that
event be like that of any other special tribunal not having
jurisdiction of a case which it had assumed to decide."
JIt would be an affectation to attempt to cite all the authorities m which this doctrine is announced. In Doolan v Carr,
125 U S. 618, decided in 1887, Mr. Justice Miller cites more
than a dozen cases as directly m point. Since then the doctrine has been again and again restated.
Take also the matter of imports. The Secretary of the
Treasury is charged with the collection of the duties on them,
but has it ever been held or even suggested that a ruling of the
custom house officers, approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, is a final determination that the article so -passed upon
was subject to duty and precluded the courts from mquiring

UNITED STATES v. JU TOY.
198 U. S.

BREWER

and Pncxuir, JJ., dissenting.

as to that fact? Certainly this court has wasted a great deal
of time determining whether a given article was subject to
duty or not if the decision of the custom house officers, approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, was a final decision
of the question.
But it is said that the exclusion acts speak of Chinese persons, and that such term includes citizens as well as aliens,
and, therefore, Congress has given power to the immigration
officers to banish citizens of the United States if they happen
to be of Chinese descent. But obviously the statutes refer to
citizens of China and not to citizens of the United States.
The treaty of 1894, 28 Stat. 1210, in execution of which most
of these statutes were passed, speaks on the one hand of
Chinese subjects in the United States and on the other of
citizens of the United States in China. The treaty declared
the rights and burdens of Chinese citizens m the Umited States,
as well as the rights and burdens of citizens of the United
States in China. The treaty then placing Chinese subjects
over against American citizens must have had in mind citizenship and not race. The legislation carrying that treaty into
effect must be interpreted in the light of that fact. The statutes of the United States expressly limit the finality of the
determination of the immigration officers to the case of aliens.
It has been conceded by the Governmeut that these statutes
do not apply to citizens, and tis court made a most important
decision based upon that concession. The rules of the Department declare that the statutes do not apply to citizens, and
yet in the face of all this we are told that they may be enforced
,against citizens, and that Congress so intended. Banishment of a citizen not merely removes him from the limits of
his native land, but puts him beyond the reach of any of the
protecting clauses of the Constitution. In other words, it
strips him of all the rights which are given to a citizen. I cannot believe that Congress intended to provide that a citizen,
siniply because he belongs to an obnoxious race, can be deprived of all the liberty and protection which the Constitution

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

guarantees, and if it did so intend, I do not believe that it has
the power to do so.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAm concurred m the foregoing dissent.
MR. JUSTICE DATY also dissented.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO v. CHICAGO
TITLE & TRUST COMPANY.
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUI
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
Xo. 139. Argued January 19 20D,1(,.-Dectded May 15,1905.

The trustee in bankruptcy claiming the right of possesson of certain merchandise of the bankrupt in storage, warehouse receipts for which he
had hypothecated for loans, instituted summary proceedings for possession
and directions for sale in the District Court. Claimants who were the
warehousemen and holders of Warehouse receipts objected to the jurmdiction but were overruled and thereafter the trustee and claimant stipulated for sale of the property and deposit of proceeds subject to further
order of the court. The District Court held that claimants were entitled
to the property. The trustee appealed and the claimants demed their
right of appeal. The Circuit Court' of Appeals reviewed the facts and
found the trustee entitled to possession. On certiorari held, that:
As the proceeding was one in bankruptcy there was no appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals and its jurisdiction was confined, under clause of § 24,
to revision in matter of law on notice and petition.
The provisions as to revision in matter of law and appeal must be construed
in view of distinctions recognized in § 23, 24 and 25, between steps
in bankruptcy-proceedings proper and controversies arising out of the
settlement of estates.
The bankruptcy court is without jurisdiction to determine adverse claims
to property not in the possession of the assignee in bankruptcy by summary proceedings, whether absolute title or only a lien is asserted, and
suits by a trustee may only be brought m courts where they might have
been brought by the bankrupt.
The fact that the clamaunits followed the case after their objections to the
jurisdiction- of the District Court had been overruled, did not amount

