OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

BOARD OF TRADE OF CITY OF CHICAGO v. HAMMOND ELEVATOR COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED" STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 215. Argued April 13,1905.-Decided3May 29, 1905.

The authorities, holding that the right of appeal to this court from the
Circuit Court, under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, is limited to cases
where the jurisdictio2i of the Federal court as a Federal court is put in
issue and that questions of jurisdiction applicable alike to the state and
the Federal courts are not within its scope, apply to questions arising
after a valid service has been made and not to thequestion of whether
jurisdiction has or has not been acquired by proper service.
This court can review by appeal under § 5 a judgment of the Circuit Court
dismissing the bill on the sole ground that jurisdiction had never been
acquired over the defendant, a foreign corporation, for lack of proper
service of process.
A Delaware corporation having its principal office in Indiana, and continuously carrying on a gram and stock brokerage business through the
same persons in Illinois under an arrangement practically equivalent to
agency, hwid, under the circumstances of this case, and in view of the
statutes of Illinois as to service on foreign corporations, to be carrying
on business in Illinois, and that service on such persons of process in a
-suit against it in the Circuit Court of the United States for Illinois was
sufficient.

THIS is an appeal directly to this court from a decree of the
Circuit Court dismissing for want of 3urisdiction a bill filed
by the Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, an Illinois corporation, against the Hammond Elevator Company, a Delaware corporation, and a citizen of that State.
The basis of the bill was that the appellant had a property
right in the quotation of prices in transactions made within
its exchange; that the.defendant had entered into a conspiracy
with others to steal, and was using such quotations, and prayed
an injunction. A. subpoena Was issued in the usual form, requiring the Hammond Elevator Company to appear and answer the bill, and was afterwards returned by the marshal as

BOARD OF TRADE v. HAMMOND ELEVATOR CO. 425
198 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

served within the Northern District of Illinois by delivering a
copy of the same "to Albert M. Babb, agent for the Hammond Elevator Company at Peoria," and also "by reading
'the same. to and within the presence and hearing of John L.
Dickes, a member of the firm of Battle & Dickes, agents of
said company," as well as upon Battle. On the day following
the service the elevator company entered a special appearance, and moved the court to set aside the service of the subpcena by the marshal, on the ground that the return was untrue
in fact and insufficient in law, and prayed judgment of the
court whether it should be compelled to appear or plead to the
bill of complaint, because it had not been served with process,
and because the defendant was not at the date- of filing the
bill, or at any other time,.withm the State of Illinois; that it
is not a resident of such State, but is a Delaware corporation,
and its principal place of business is outside the State of
Illinois.
This motion of the elevator company was referred to a
master to take testimony, and report the same with his conclusions of law. The master filed his report in the Circuit
Court, recommending that the motion of the defendant to
quash the service of process be sustained, whereupon counsel
for plaintiff stated in open court that he was unable to make
any other or different service upon the defendant, and it was
ordered that' the bill be dismissed as to the Hammond Elevator
Company The bill was also dismissed as to the Western
Union Telegraph Company, which had been made a party by
an amendment to the original bill. Thereupon appellant appealed to this court upon the same question of jurisdiction,
praying that the appeal be allowed and said question be certified, which was done.
Mr Henry S. Robbns for appellant:
The record presents a question of jurisdiction within §5 of
the act of 1891. O'Neal v Unitod States, 190 U. S. 36.
-This court has uniformly upheld its iurisdiction to review,

OCTO3ER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellant:

198 U. S.

upon direct appeal or writ of error under seotion 5, any question ofjurisdiction-whether of the sub-ject-matter; Wetmore
v Rymer, 169 U S. 115, Huntington v -Ladley 176 U S. 668,
Interor Constructon Co. v Gibney, 160 U S. 217, or of the
person of the d6fendant. Shepard v Adams, 168 U S. 618,
Socwete Foncterev Milliken, 135 U. S,304 Conley v "Mathseson
Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 406; Goldey v Morning News, 156
U. S. 518. Conversely the Circuit Courts of Appeals declined
to entertain such cases. Compress Co. v Amerwan Co., 125
Fed. Rep. 196.
As to the phrase "in such cases the question of jurisdiction
alone shall be certified," see act of April 29, 1802, ch. 31,
§ 6, § 652 of the Rev Stat., act of June 1, 1872, which required
the question certified upon a disagreement of the judges to
be a single and specific question of law and not questions of
fact, and the certificate was required to state the facts or parts
of the record necessary to properly present that question.
Californma Paving Co. v Molitor, 113 U S.609. The certificate was the only record n this court and was required to be
complete in itself, subject to the right of this court to order
up the record itself.
At first the expressions of this court seemed to indicate that
§ 5 of the act of 1891 contemplated this kind of a certificate.
Maynard v Hecht, 151 U S.324. Then a difference was noted
between requiring a certificate, which should state the question to be decided and all of the case that was necessary to
decide it, and one whose only purpose was to establish a fact,
upon which this court's jurisdiction depended.
Congress by §5 undoubtedly contemplated only a certificate of the second kind.
This court, under § 5, has not only reviewed jurisdictional
cases involving questions of fact, and of mixed law and fact,
Wetmore v Rymer, 169 U S.115, Conley v Mathseson Alkali
Works, 190 U. S.406, Geer v Same, 190 U S. 428, but has
also held that there need not in some cases be any certificate
at all, but that the question may appear either "by the terms

BOARD 0h TRADEU v. HIAMMOND RLEVATOR CO. 427
198 U. S.

Argument for Appellant

of the decree appealed from and of the order allowing the appeal, or by a separate certificate of the court below;" and that,
where the judgment was for defendant upon a preliminary
defense of a want of jurisdiction,-the question of jurisdiction
being thus the only one mvolved,-and the appeal is allowed
upon this question alone, no certificate is necessary United
States v. Jahn, 155 U S. 109; In re Lehigh Min. & Mfg. Co.,
156 U. S. 322; Shields v Coleman, 157 U S. 168, Interior Construction Co. v Gibney, 160 U. S. 217, Smith v McKay, 161
U. S. 355, Huntington v Lasdley, 176 U S. 668, Excelsor Co.
v Pacific Co., 185 U. S. 282, Arkansas v Schlierholz, 179 U S.
598, Courtney v Pradt,196 U S. 89.
This record, as already shown, more than meets the requirements of these cases, as respects the certification of the
question of jurisdiction.
The service in this case was adequate.
The undisputed facts show that, at the time of the service
of process, the Hammond Company was, in contemplation of
the law, transacting business in Illinois through these correspondents as its agents, so as to make service upon either of
them a valid service upon it.
The question is what is the real relation of the parties to
each other and the business. Italian-Suwss Colony v Pease,
194 Illinois, 98, Conn. Mut. Ins. Co. v Spratley, 172 U S.
602, 615, Norton v Atchison R. R. Co., 61 Fed. Rep. 200;
Smith v West. Un. Tel. Co., 84 Kentucky, 664, Centrai.Stock
Exchange v,Board of Trade, 196 Illinois, 396, Cone v Tuscaloosa Co., 76 Fed. Rep. 891.
Under the circumstances public policy will not permit the
defendant to claim that these correspondents are not its agents,
thus enabling it to enjoy the privileges of extending its business into Illinois, without incurring a corresponding liability
to be sued there.
To constitute a legal service of mesne process on a corporation of another State (1) the writ must be personally served
within the jurisdiction, upon its officer or agent, and (2) the

OCTO3ER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

198 U. S.

company must, within the cofitemplation of the law, be doing
business within the State.
As a foreign corporation enters a State only by comity and
not by right, Paul v Virgna, 8 Wall. 168, the Illinois
statute, Rev Stat, ch. 32, § 26, is a lawful enactment and
authorizes service of process upon any agent, C. & R. I. R. R.
v Fell, 22 Illinois, 333. It differs from the statutes of some
States, which require service upon the "general," or "managing," or "business," agent. This statute applies to foreign
corporations. Midland Pac. Ry. Co. v McDermrd, 91 Illinois,
170.
Liability to be sued and served like a home corporation, is
one of the liabilities that Illinois, by § 26, inposes upon foreign
corporations as a condition of doing business in the State.
Wilson Packing Co. v Hunter, 8 Biss. 429; Barrow Steamship
Co. v- Kane, 170 U S. 100.
By availing itself of the privilege of doing business m a
State, a foreign corporation impliedly assents to be there sued
and served in the mode provided by the state statute, provided this does not violate the fundamental principle that
requires notice of a suit before a party can be bound by it.
St. Clazr v Cox, 106 U S. 350; Railroad Company. v. Harms,
21 Wall. 65, 81, Ex parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369; Merchants' Manujactursng Co. v Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 13 Fed.
Rep. 358, Amy v Watertown, 130 U. S. 301, Shepard v Adams, 168 U. S. 618.
In admiralty suits,-which, like equity cases, are not within
the statute requiring conformity with the state practice,service upon a foreign corporation under the state law is sufficient. In re Louisville Underwriters, 134 U. S. 488, Doe v
Sprngfield B. & M. .Co., 10 Fed. Rep. 684. In chancery
cases service of process under the state law is sustained.
Evansville Courer Co. v United Press, 74 Fed. Rep. 918;
McCord Lumber Co. v Doyle, 97 Fed. Rep. 22.
As to the other requisite of a legal service which 'is that the
foreign corporation must be doing business within the State,

BOARD OF TRADE v. HAMMOND ELEVATOR CO. 429
198 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

and vhat is a sufficient doing of business within the State, see
St. Clasrv Cox, 106 U. S. 350; Connecticut Ins. Co. v Spratley,
172 U. S. 615, In re Hohorst, 150 U S. 653, Block v Railroad
Co., 21 Fed. Rep. 529; Denson v ChattanoogaAssn., 107 Fed.
Rep. 777, U S. Sawngs & L. Co. v Miller, 47 S. W Rep. 17,
Van Dresser v Oregon R. & N Co., 48 Fed. Rep. 202; Palmer
v Chwago Herald Co., 70 Fed. Rep. 886, Locke v Chscago
Chronwle Co., 107 Iowa, .390. Furthermore the Hammond
Company is transacting business in Illinois, because its bets
with these traders are Illinois contracts.
An offer becomes a contract, as soon as the acceptance is
committed to the regular mail, or a telegraph company But,
according to the better reasoned cases, the rule is otherwise
when the acceptor commits his acceptance to his own agent
or an agenoy within his control. In re London & Northern
Bank, L. R. (1900) 1 Ch. Div 220; Thayer v Middlesex Mut.
Fire Ins. Co., 27 Massachusetts, 325, Bryant v Booze, 55
Georgia, 438.
See cases-holding mail contracts with insurance companies
to be contracts of the State of the applicant, despite recitals
m the policies seeking to make them contracts of the State
of the company's home office. Equitable Life Assurance Soc.
v Clements, 140 U S. 226, 232; Wall v Equitable Life Assurance Soc., 31 Fed. Rep. 273, Hicks v National Life Ins. Co.,
60 Fed. Rep. 690; Equitable Life Assurance Soc. v Winnng,
58 Fed. Rep. 541, Berry v Knsght Templars, 46 Fed. Rep.
439; Fletcher v N Y Life Ihs. Co., 13 Fed. Rep. 526, Mut:
Ben. Life Ins. Co. v Robnson, 54 Fed. Rep. 580. See also
Ransome v State, 91 Tennessee, 716, Boyd Co. v Coates, 24
Ky L. R. 730; Central Stock Exchange v Bendinger, 109 Fed.
Rep. 926, whnch are on "all fours" with this case.
Mr Lloyd Charles Whitman, with whom Mr Jacob J Kern
and Mr John A. Brown were on the brief, for appellee.
The order of February 23, 1904, dismissing the bill as to
the Western Union Telegraph Company without prejudice

OCTOBER TERM, 19.04.
Argument for Appellee.

198 U. S.

is not such a final order as to be reviewable upon appeal by
this court. Dams v Getsler, 162 U. S. 290; Fowler v Hamill,
139 U. S. 549.
The appeal from the order of February 23, Lvu, dismismg
the bill as to the Western Union Telegraph Company, when
the appellee, Hammond Elevator Company, was out of court,
does not m any way involve or authorize a review by this
court of the order of February. 23, 1904, dismissing the bill as
to appellee, Hammond Elevator Company, and this. notwithstanding the certificate of the trial judge.
In the absence of any showiiig in the record other than the
statement of complainant m open court recited in the order
of dismissal of the bill as to the Hammond Elevator Company,
the order of December 21, 1903, was a voluntary non-suit and
is not reviewable upon appeal.
Under the law and the evidence the court- properly adjudged the service of subpcenas herein insufficient to coonfer
jurisdiction of appellee, the Hammond Elevator Company, and
therefore granted appellee, Hammond Elevator Company's
m4dion to quash service of process herein. Hurd's Rev Stat.
Ill., ) 03, ch. 32, p. 475, § 26, ch. 32, § 673, p. 486, ch. 110,
§5, p. 1400; 3 Starr & Curtis Ann. Ill. Stat., ch. 110, §5,
p. 2986; Mineral 'Point R. R. Co. v -Keep, 22 Illinois, 16,
Chwago & Rock Island iRy. Co. v Fell, 22 Illinois, 337, Peoria
Ins.. Company v Warner, 28 Illinois, 433, Unwn Pqfic Ry.
,Co.v Miller, 87 Illinois; 45, Midland Ry. Co. v McDermsd,
91- Illinois, 170; Hannibal & St. Joe R. R. Co. v Crane, 102
Illinois, 349; Italian-Swiss Colony Co. v Pease, 194 Illinois,
98, 106, March-Dams .Co.v Strowbridge Lith. Co., 79 Ill. App.
683, Havens & Geddes Co. v Diamond et al., 93 Ill. App. 557,
Wall v Chesapeake C. & 0 R. R. Co., 95 Fed. Rep. 398, Blake
v Railroad,Co., 21 Fed. Rep. 529.
Under the averments, if true, of the motion to quash, the
Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, of appellee, Hammond Elevator Company, by virtue of the alleged service of process.
Federal courts in common law a~tions follow the statutes

BOARD OF TRADE v. HAMMOND ELEVATOR CO. 431
198 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

of the respective States in regard to service on corporations
under the statute which provides'for conformity with the state
practice m- actions at law 2 Foster's Fed. Prac., 3d ed.,
pp. 806, 810.
The practice in equity cases is not dictated by statute, but
m such cases the state practice merely furnishes a code which
the Federal courts are apt. to follow 1 Foster's Fed. Prac.,
3d ed., p. 254.
The state statute must be reasonable and the service provided for be enly upon such agents as may properl be deemed
representatives of the foreign corporations. St. Louts Wire
Mill Co. v Consolidated Barb Wire Co., 32 Fed. Rep. 802;
Good Hope Co. v Railway Barbed Fenng Co., 22 Fed. Rep.
635, Goldey v Mornng News, 156 U. S. 518; D'Arcey v.
Ketchum, 11 How 165.
Three conditions must occur. First, the corporation must
be darrymg on its business m such foreign State or district.
Second, such business must be transacted or managed by
some agent or officer appointed by and representing the corporation in such State. Third, there must be some local law
making such corporation amenable 'to suit there as a condition expressed or implied of doing business in the State.
United States v Am. Bell Telephone Co., 28 Fed. Rep. 17, 35,
Midland Ry. Co. v McDermid, 91 Illinois, 173.
For general discussion of principles involved see St. Clar
v Cox, 106 U. S. 350.
The averments of the motion to quash are, under the evidence, true. The transactions shown by the evidence do not
show a doing of business by the Hammond Elevator Company
within the State of Illinois or said district, and the relations
between Battle & Dickes and Babb and the Hammond Elevator
Company do not amount, in law, to such an agency as -s contemplated by law for the service of process upon a non-resident
foreign corporation. Cases supra and Maxwell v A., T &
S. F R. Co., 34 Fed. Rep. 286, N K. Farbanks Co. v Cincznnatz, N 0. & T R. Ry. Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 420; Evansville

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

198 U. S.

Courer v United Press, 74 Fed. Rep. 918, Wall v C. & 0.
R. R. Co., 95 Fed. Rep. 398, Doe v Springfield Boiler & Mfg.
Co., 104 Fed. Rep. 684, Municipal Telegraph & Stock. Co. v.
Ward, 133 Fed. Rep. 70.
The ultimate findings of the master form the evidentiary
facts. Munwcpal Tel. & Stock Co. v Ward, Collector, 133
Fed. Rep. 70, 72.
MR. JUSTIc E BROWN, after 'makmg the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court dismissed this appeal upon the ground
that it had never acquired jurisdiction over the Hammond
Elevator Company by the service of process upon Albert M.
Babb and the members of the firm of Battle & Dickes, because
they were not officers of the. Elevator Company, which was a
Delaware corporation, 4nd had its principal place of business
in the State of Indiana.
1. There is, however, a preliminary. question in this court,.
that is, whether we can lawfully entertain this appeal under
section 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, which provides that an
appeal shall lie directly to this -court "in any case in which
the jurisdiction of the court is in issue; in such cases the
question of jurisdiction alone -hall be certified to the Supreme
Court from the court below for decision."
The proper construction of this section has been the subject
of frequent consideration in this court, and it has been definitely
settled that it must be limited to cases where the jurisdiction
of the Federal court, as a Federal court, is put in issue, and that
questions of jurisdiction applicable to the state courts, as well
as to the Federal courts, are not within its scope.
The earliest reported caseonthissubjectisthat of the World's
Columbtn Expositson, 18 U S. Appeals, 42, in which the Circuit Court,;-sitting Tu equity, granted an injunction to prevent
the opening of the Exposition grounds on Sunday On appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals the Chief Justice held that as

BOARD OF TRADE v. HA11AXOND ELEVATOR CO. 433
198 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

the power of the Circuit Court to hear the cause was not
denied, the appellant contending only that the United States
had not made a case cogmzable in a court of equity, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was not in issue within the intent
and meaning of the act. In Smith v McKay, 161 U S. 355,
it was held, following the prior case, that the question whether
the remedy was at law or in equity did n6t involve the jurisdiction of the Federal court as such, and the case was dismissed. A similar ruling was made in Blythe v Hinckley, 173
U. S. 501.
The cases were fully reviewed in Louisville Trust Company
v Knott, 191 U S. 225, in which the question involved was the
respective rights of a receiver appointed by the state court and
one appointed by the Circuit Court of the United States. It
was held that the question was not one of jurisdiction within
the meaning of the act of March 3, 1891, the court observing:
"The question of jurisdiction which the statute permits to be
certified to this court directly must be one involving the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a Federal court, and not simply
its general authority as a judicial tribunal to proceed in harmony with established rules of practice governing courts of
concurrent jurisdiction as between each other."
In Bache v Hunt, 193 U S. 523, Hunt, as receiver, filed an
intervening petition for the reimbursement of certain amounts
paid by him as receiver in the extinguishment of prior claims,
which certain railroad bonds and stocks had been deposited
to secure. A decree was made in his favor, and an appcal.was
taken to this court. It was said that "the jurisdiction of the
.Circuit Court was only questioned in respect to its general
authority as a judicial tribunal, and not in respect of its power
as a court of the United States. The established rules of
practice as to bringing in parties to ancillary or pro viferesse
suo proceedings, and those governing courts of concurrent
jurisdiction as between themselves, were alone involved."
The appeal was dismissed.
In Courtney v Pradt, 196 U S. 89, a citizen of Wisconsin,
vor,. oxcviii-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

duly qualified as an executor in that State, was sued as such
m Kentucky Pradt demurred on the ground that the court
had no jurisdiction, and the Circuit Court of the United States,
to which the case had been removed, sustained the demurrer
and dismissed the suit. It was said that the court had power
to so adjudicate, and that the question decided was not one
of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a court of the United
States, but one with respect to the law of Kentucky The case
was dismissed.
There is a distinction, however, between these cases which
turn upon questions arising after a valid service of process
upon the defendant, with respect to the mode of procedure,
or the conflicting claims of the state and Federal courts, and
certain other authorities which turn upon the validity of the
service of process itself upon the defendants; in other words,
which involve the jurisdiction of the court in any form over
the defendant. The leading case la that of Shepard v Adams,
168 U S. 618. This case turned upon the validity of the service of the summons whereby the defendant was required to
appear within ten days after such service, when by the law
of the State he was allowed thirty days. The question was
whether Rev Stat. sec. 914, assimiloting the-practice, pleadings, forms and modes of proceedings in civil causes in the
Federal courts to those obtaining in the state courts, applied
to the time within which the defendant was required to appear
in obedience to a summons. It was held that, as the rule of
the Feaeral court was adopted in conformity with the rules
then in force in the state courts, it was not bound to alter its
rules every time the state courts saw fit to alter their rules,
and that the Federal courts were at liberty to continue their
rules without subservience to such changes. The point was
made that the question involved was not the jurisdiction of
the Federal court as such, and in reply to that suggestion
Mr. Justice Shiras observed. "The present case differs from
Smith v McKay, in the essential feature that the contention
is that the court below never acquired jurisdiction at all over

BOARD OF TRADE v. HAMMOND ELEVATOR CO. 435
198 U. S.

Opinon of-the Court.

the defendant by a valid service of process. In such a case
there would be an entire want of jurisdiction, and a judgment
rendered without jurisdiction can be reviewed on a writ of
error directly sued outb this court."
That paragraph is doubtless broader than the exigency of
the case required, as the question involved was the validity
of the service of process in the Federal court as distinguished
from the state court, but in the recent case of Remzngton v
Central Pacific Ry. Co., ante, p. 95, it was accepted as applicable to the case of the validity of a summons from a state court,
served upon a director of a railroad company in a State other.
than that m which the company was incorporated. The court
denied a motion to set the service aside, whereupon the case'
was removed into the Circuit Court of the United States, and
the defendant renewed its motion to set aside thd summons.
The motion was granted, and the action was dismissed for
want of jurisdiction of the defendant. It was held, upon the
authority of Shepard v Adams, that this court had authority
to review the judgment on writ of error.
While the case under consideration is distinguishable fron
Shepard v Adams, we think it is concluded by the case last
cited, and therefore hold that. we have jurisdiction. to review
the action of the Circuit Court m dismissing this bill.
2. The merits in the case are contained in the certificate
of the District.Judge, and involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over the Hammond Elevator Company, -by reason
of the service in the State of Illinois upon Babb or Battle &
Dickes, as agents of such company, and whether the service
of process upon them gave the court jurisdiction over the
company
By the law of Illinois, Rev' Stat. ch. 32, sec. 26, "foreign
corporations, and the officers and agents thereof, dnng business sn thms State,. shall be subjected to all the liabilities" of
domestic corporations; and .by chap. 110, sec. 5, "may be'
served with process by leaving a -copy thereof with
any agent of said company found in the county"

OCTOji ;R T.ERM, 1904.
Opinon of the-Court.

198 U. S.

The facts showing the relations between the parties served
and the elevator company are substantially as follows:
The company maintains a place of business at Hammond,
Indiana, and had under lease from the Western Union Telegraph Company the exclusive use during business hours of
certain telegraph wires running from Hammond to certu.m
offices in different cities in Illinois, including Peoria and Aurora,
where the parties served with process lived. In the lease of
these wires, signed by defendant, the offices of these "correspondents" are designated as offices of the defendant, and
are contained upon regular printed forms prepared by the
company The cost or rental of these wires was paid to the
telegraph company by the defendant. Over these wires the
defendant caused to be transmitted continuous market quotations of the New York Stock Exchange to persons standing
in relation of Babb and Battle & Dickes, who are called "correspondents," and who posted these quotations upon blackboards in their respective offices.
Customers resorting to the correspondents' offices, and desiring to trade in any one of the sixty different stocks whose
,quotations are posted, give a verbal or written order to buy
or sell certain grain or stocks, which is transmitted by the
correspondent in his own name over the private wire of the
correspondent running into his office from the office of the defendant at-Hammond, as an offer by the correspondent to buy
from or sell to the defendant. Sometimes the price is mentioned by the customer, and sometimes not. In the latter
case it is understood that the trade is to be at whatever the
market is. When the order is given the correspondent exacts
from the customer such margin as he sees fit, unless the customer already has money on deposit with the correspondent,
or is of known financial responsibility Defendant accepts
these orders when the state of the market justifies, by return
message over the same wire, the contents of which are communicated by the correspondent to the customer. The individuality of each trade is preserved throughout by a number

BOARD OF TRADE v. HAMMOND ELEVATOR CO. 437
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

given to it by the correspondent's ,operators at the outset.
The correspondent upon receipt of this return message gives
the trader a memorandum showing the trade-and the price
to which his margin carries it, and, except in case-of a losing
trade, where he has failed to protect himself by securing from
the customer a sufficient margin, the correspondent neither
participates in the loss nor the profit incurred in the trade.
He derives as his compensation a fixed sum, whether the trade
results in a profit to the defendant or to the customer. Through
daily statements and daily settlements of the balance shown
thereby, the correspondent remits to the defendant, through
its local bank, whatever amounts are shown to be due from
him to the defendant for margins, wire service, etc. When
the trader wishes to close a trade thus opened the correspondent
in like manner receives and transmits the orler over his wire
to the Hammond Company, giving to the telegram the number of the order already given to the trade. The order is
executed at Hammond the same way as the opening order.
It is admitted by the defendant's counsel that the defendant does not desire to be subject to suit before the state and
Federal courts of every State and District where it has correspondents, and that it has endeavored to arrange and conduct its business so as to avoid such contingency
The relations of the correspondent with the elevator company are in each case fixed by formal contract. to the effect
that the parties shall deal as principals, and that the relations
of principal and agent shall neither exist or be held to exist.
There is no evidence that the correspondents Babb and Battle
& Dickes have claimed or represented themselves to be agents
of the defendants.
The fact, however, that the relations between the defendant
and its correspondents are, as between themselves, expressly
disclaimed to be those of principal and agent, is not decisive
of their relations so far as third parties dealing with them upon
the basis of their being agents are concerned. Mutual Lije
Is7mrance Company v Spratley, 172 U. S. 602. As was said

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

in this case, of the agents whose authority to receive service

of process was denied by the defendants (p. 615) "In such
case it is not material that the officers of the corporation deny
that the agent was expressly given such power, or assert that
it was withheld from him. The question turns upon the
character of the agent, whether he is such that the law will
imply the power and impute the authority to him, and if he
be that kind of an agent, the implication will be made, notwithstanding a denial of authority on the part of the other
. In the absence of any
officers of the corporation.
express authority, the question depends upon a review of the
surrounding facts and upon the mference that the court might
properly draw from them." See also Itaian-Siunss Colony v
Pease, 194 Illinois, 98, Commercial Ins. Co. v Ives, 56 Illinois,
402; Unon Ins. Co. v Chspp, 93 Illinois, 96, Ind. Ins. Co. v
Hartwell, 123 Indiana, 177, Planters' Ins. Co. v Meyers, 55
Mississippi, 479; Sprague v Ins. Co., 69 N. Y. 128.
In this connection it was found by the master that "There
can be no question that towards the customer the correspondent bears the relation of agent to his principal. The customer
knows that the correspondent is not selling the -stocks to him,
or buying stocks from him, but is merely taking his orders for
transmission. Hence, the correspondent's charge to the customer for his services is properly called a commission. The
customer does not direct the correspondent from whom he is
to purchase, or to whom he is to sell, as the latter is at libetry
to purchase from or sell to the defendant, or elsewhere, as he
chooses. In point of fact, perhaps, because of the facilities
offered by the private wire, he almost invariably does purchase from or sell to the defendant."
The "dfendant has undoubtedly taken great pains to foreclose the idea that its correspondents are agents in any such
sense as to render it liable for their acts, or to validate the
service of process upon them as such agents. Each day the
defendant enters upon his statement which he that day sends
to the correspondent each trade it has that day accepted from

BOARD OF TRADE v. HAMMOND ELEVATOR CO. 439
198 U. S.

Opimon of the'Court.

such correspondent.. If the statement shows a debit balance,
the correspondent deposits an approximate amount in a bank
in his city to the credit of the defendant, which thus maintains
an active bank account in each of such banks. If the statement results m. a balance to the credit of the correspondent,
a check of the defendant payable to the correspondent, and
usually drawn upon the same locl bank, where the deposits
are made to defendant's credit, accompanies the. statement.
As a general thing the balance due on each day's transactions,
as betveen the defendant and the correspondent, is approximately settled the next day The defendant looks only to the
correspondent in all trades. In case of a loss, if the correspondent has failed to secure sufficient margin from the customer, and is unable to collect the amount from him, the
correspondent must stand the loss. The defendant charges up
and retains the amount of its charge for wire services, in any
event, as well as all losses of the correspondent on trades. The
daily statements by defendantare made upon printed blanks,
which contain the statement: "We have no agents." And
upon the back is a printed statement to the effect that upon
consideration of the defendant consenting to deal and contract with him as principal in buying and selling commodities,
he agrees:
"'First. In all cases where I shall purchase from or contract
to purchase from or shall sell to or contract to sell to said
Hammond Elevator Company any commodity, I will receive
and pay for the commodity purchased, or contracted to be
purchased from it, and will deliver the commodity sold, or
contracted to be sold, to it.'
"'Seventh. That I "am not, and will not, represent myself
as being agent for said Hammond Elevator Company, but will
represent that I have no authority to act for it. It is not
responsible for anything that may be done by me.'
"But the defendant knows nothing of the customer. All.
its orders come from.the correspondent in his own name. All
funds received by him are sent to it through the bank by the

OCTOBER TERM4, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

correspondent. All its statements are rendered to the correspondent. All its charges are made against, and all its
credits entered in favor of, the correspondent. Indeed, so far
as the evidence shows, there is no ground for claunimg that the
defendant knows that the correspondent has any customers,
or that he is not dealing solely on his own account."
Notwithstanding these protestations and excessive precautions used to prevent the correspondent being held as agent,
the method of business shows that the party really interested
in the transaction is the defendant, and that the correspondents are compensated as if they were agents, and not principals. The correspondent charges his customers a commission
of onet-eighth of a cent a bushel on gram. The defendant keeps
a regular book account -with its correspondents, and in addition to charging up the margin against him, it makes an arbitrary charge on each deal, which is called on the statement of
the correspondent "wire sermce," meaning a charge for the
use of the private wire. This charge for wire service is a regular fixed percentage of 'the tonnission charged by the correspondent, which indicates that it is a commission under the
guise of wire service, and such a charge upon any -transaction
of magnitude would be an exorbitant charge for use of the
wire. An ordinary charge for wire service would depend upon
the length of the message and distance transmitted, wholly
irrespective of the amount of the transaction. But in this
case, when a charge is made on a transaction involving a
hundred shares, the charge is ten times greater than for a
trade involving ten shares. This indicates something more
than a charge made for the actual use of the wire, the amount
of the service being the same in each case. The significance
of this wire service is the more marked by the fact of the defendant company paying a fixed sum of $50 per month for the
use of the wire.
The findings, moreover, show that while the correspondent
takes the orders from his customers, he transmits them directly
to the defendant, and no trade is effected until the return mes-

BOARD OF TRADE v. HAMMOND ELEVATOR CO. 441
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

sage is received by the correspondent. While the identity of
the customer is not disclosed to the elevator company, it is
preserved by a number appropriate to each order; and there
can be no doubt that any legal liability of the trader arising
out of the transaction could be enforced by the defendant
against the customer as soon as his identity was discovered.
It is apparent from these transactions that the real trading is
done between the customer and the elevator company, and
that the functions of the correspondents are really those of
agents and not of principals. There must. be two principals,
and only two, m every such transaction. Obviously the customer is one of them. We think it equally obvious that the
elevator company is the other one, and that the profits appropriate to the transaction belong to the elevator company,
and not to the correspondent, who is paid a commission for
his services. If the correspondent be not the principal in this
transaction, he must be the agent of one party or the other,
and as his office is continuously open. for -the transaction of
business, where he receives and executes orders, collects margins and deposits them to the credit of the defendant in a local
bank, and apparently his transactions are entirely with the
defendant, it would seem that he was rather the agent of the
elevator company than of. the customer, a conclusion which
is fortified by the fact that the correspondent is compensated
by a percentage of the amount charged the customer under the
name of commission for the privilege of trading.
The real, transaction in this case is undoubtedly artfully
disguised, but notwithstanding the fact that the order is made
and accepted at Hammond, and the margin is charged up at
Hammond against the correspondent, and the profits or losses
made there, we are of the opinion that in receiving, transmitting and reporting orders to the customers, receiving their
margins, and settling with them for the profits of losses mcident to each transaction, the correspondent is really "doing
business" as the agent of the elevator company in Illinois,
and may be properly treated as its agent for the service of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

process. It is evident that if these correspondents be not
regarded as agents in these transactions, it is possible for the
defendant to establish similar correspondents in a dozen cities
m at least a dozen States of the Union, and an enormous business be built up, in which the defendant company is the real
principal, with no possibility of being sued except in the States
of Indiana and Delaware.
If these correspondents were admitted to be agents of the
elevator company it is not -perceived how their methods of
doing business would be materially changed. They would
maintain an office in their own cities; would' receive and transmit to their principals offers for trades made to them and report their acceptance or refusal, as is frequently done with
respect to policies by agents of insurance companies; would
receive and deposit the margins and attend to the settlement
of differences. In fact, their position is analogous to that of
an ordinary insurance agent, with power to receive applications and premiums, deliver policies and settle losses, and whose
acts are binding on the principal, notwithstanding a provision
in the application -for the policy declaring such party shall be
the agent of the insured.
It results that the decree dismssssng the bill as to the Hammond
Elevator Company must be reversed, and the case be remanded.for further proceedings.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JusTicE HARLAN and
TICpE DAY dissented upon the first point.

MR. Jus-

