OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

CUNNIUS, NOW SMITH, v. READING SCHOOL DISTRICT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 165. Argued March 6, 1905.-])ecided May 29, 1905.

That the Fourteenth Amendment does not deprive the States of their police
power over subjects within their jurisdiction is elementary; and, in determining the vilidity of a statute, the question before the court is not the
wisdom of the statute but whether it is so beyond the scope of the municipal government as to amount to a want of due process of law.
The right to regulate concerning the estate or property of absentees is an
attribute, which in its very essence belongs to all governments, to the
end that they may be able to perform the purposes for which government exists, and in the absence of restrictions, in its own constitution,
none of which exists in the State of Pennsylvania, is within the scope of
of a state government; nor does the exercise of this power violate the
Fourteenth Amendment by depriving the absentee of is property
without due process of law in case lie is alive when the proceedings are
initiated.
Where the provisions of a state statute for administration on the assets ok
an absentee are reasonable as to the period of absence necessary to create
the presumption of death, and create proper safeguards for the protection
of his interests in case the absentee should- return, it does not violate the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, because it deprives
the absentee of his property without notice.
The Pennsylvania statute of 1885, Public Laws, p. 155, providing for the
administration of the property of persons absent, and unheard of, for
seven or more years, is a valid enactment and is not repugnanlt to the
Fourteenth Amendment because it deprives the absentee of his property
without due process of law.

THE legislature of Pennsylvania, in 1885, adopted a law
"relating to the grant of letters of administration upon the
estates of persons, presumed to be dead, by reason of long
absence from their former domicil." Briefly, and m substance, the act provided that upon application made to the
register of wills for letters of administration upon the estate
of any person supposed to be dead on account of absence for

CUNNIUS v. READING SCHOOL DIST.
19S U. S.

Statement of the Case.

seven or more years from the place of his last domicil within
the State, the register of wills shall certify the application to
the orphans' court, and that said court, if satisfied that the
applicant would be entitled to administration if the absentee
were m fact dead, shall cause the fact of the application to be
advertised in a newspaper published in the county once a week
for four successive weeks, giving notice that on a day stated,
which must be two weeks after the last publication, evidence
would be heard by the court concerning "the alleged absence
of the supposed decedent and the circumstances and duration
thereof." After providing for a hearing in the orphans' court,
the statute empowers that court, if satisfied by the proof that
the legal presumption of death is made out, to so decree and
cause a notice to be inserted for two successive weeks in a
newspaper published in the county, and also, when practicable,
m a newspaper published at or near the place beyond the
State where, when last heard from, the supposed decedent had
his residence. This notice requires the absentee, if alive, or
any other person for him, to produce to the court, within
twelve weeks from the date of the last insertion of the notice,
satisfactory evidence of the continuance in life of the absentee.
If, within the period of twelve weeks, evidence is not produced
to the court that the absentee is alive, the statute makes it the
duty of the court to order the register of wills to issue letters
of administration to the party entitled thereto, and such letters, until revoked, and all acts done in pursuance thereof,
and m reliance thereupon, shall be as valid as if the supposed
decedent were really dead. -Power is further conferred upon
the orphans' court to revoke the letters at any time on proof
that the absentee is in fact alive, the effect of the revocation
being to withdraw all the powers conferred by the grant of
admuinistration. But it is provided that"All receipts or disbursements of assets, and other acts
previously done by him," (the administrator) "shall remain
as valid as if the said letters were unrevoked, and theiadmuiistrator shall settle an account of his administration down to

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

the time of such revocation, and shall transfer all assets rernam g in his hands to the person as whose administrator he
had acted, or to his duly authorized agent or attorney- Proinded, Nothing in this act contained shall validate the title of
any person to any money or property received as widow, next
of kin, or heir of such supposed decedent, but the same may be
recovered from such person in all cases in which such recovery
would be had, if this act had not been passed."
It is further provided that before any distribution of the
estate of suph supposed decedent shall be made to the persons
entitled to receive it, they shall give security, to be approved
by the orphans' co~t, in such sum as the court shall direct,
conditioned that If the absentee "shall, in fact, be at the time
alive, they will, respectively, refund the amounts received by
each on demand with intorest thereon, but if the person or
persons entitled to receive the same is or are unable to give
the security aforesaid, then the money shall be put at interest
on security approved by said court, which interest is to be
paid annually to the person entitled' to it, and the money to
remain at interest until the security aforesaid is given, or the
orphans' court, on application, shall order it to be paid to the
person or persons entitled to it."
After affording remedies in favor 'of the absentee in case the
issue of letters should be subsequently revoked, the statute
provides that the costs attending the issue of letters or their
revocation shall be paid out of the estate of the supposed decedent, And that the costs arising upon -the application.for
letters which shall not be granted shall be paid by the appli,cant. Public Laws, 1885, p. 155.
The plaintiff in error, Margaret Cunmus, now Margaret
'Smith, whom v~e shall hereafter refer to as Mrs. Smith,. prior
to. and at the time of the passage of this act, was domiciled in
the State of Pennsylvania. In virtue of her right of dower in
certain real estate of her husband, which passed to hun from
his deceased, mother's estate, she became entitled to the annual
interest during her life on the sum of $569.61. This debt was

CUNNIUS
198 U. S.

. READING SCHOOL DIST.
Statement of.the Case.

assumed by John M. Cunnius, who acquired the real estate
from which the right of dower arose, and was m turn assumed
by the Reading School District, in consequence of its acquisition from John M. Cunnius of the property The School District paid the interest as it accrued to Mrs. Smith, at her
domicil m the city of Reading, up to the first of April, 1888.
In that year she left her domicil in the city of Reading, and
for nearly nine years, up to March, 1897, she had not been
heard from. At that date her only son, who resided m Readmng, alleging the absence of his mother for the period stated,
and the fact that she had not been heard from, and the consequent presumption of her death, made application to the register of wills, under the statute to which we have just referred,
for letters of administration. After the reference of the matter
to the orphans' court, as required by the statute, and the making of the publication and compliance with the other requisites
of the statutes, the letters of administration which the statute
authorized were granted. Under the authority thus conferred the adinmistrator collected from the Reading School
District the arrears of interest which had accrued on the right
of dower of Mrs. Smith, from the date of the last payment
made. to her before her disappearance on April 1, 1888, down
to the time of the appointment of the administrator. The
administrator gave the School District a receipt and discharge.
In 1899 Mrs. Smith sued the Reading School -District in the
Court of Common Pleas of Berks County to recover the arrears
of interest which had been paid during her absence to the
administrator appointed by the orphans' court. And the
proof in the suit developed that at the time the proceedings
against her as an absentee were initiated, and when the admmistrator was appointed, she was living in Sacramento,
California. The School District relied for its defense 'upon
the payment of the interest made to the administrator and
the discharge which that officer had given under the law.
Mrs. Smith asserted that- the proceedings in the state court
and the receipt of the administrator furnished no protection

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

198 U. S.

to the School District, because, as she was alive when the proceedings for administration were taken m the state court, those
proceedings and the law which authorized then were repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment to -the Constitution of the
United States. She, moreover, contended, even although there
was- power in the State to provide by law for the administration of the property of an absentee, the particular law in question was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution, as it did not provide for adequate notice, and
because the law failed to furnish the necessary safeguards to
give it validity The case went to a jury upon legal points
being reserved.
The trial court decided that Mrs. Smith was entitled to
recover, because the Pennsylvania statute did not provide
essential notice, and was, therefore, repugnant to the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Superior
Court, to which the case was taken, affirmed the action of the
trial couit on the ground that, as*Mrs. Smith .was alive when
the proceedings to administer her estate as an absentee were
had, that administration was void and the statute authorizing
it was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. 21 Superior
Court Pa. 340. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, on appeal, reversed .the judgments of the court below, and decided
that the statute was a valid exercise of the police power of
the State, and, therefore, both as to form and substance, was
not repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. 206 Pa. St.
469.
Mr Caleb J Bseber for plaintiff in error"
Plaintiff was deprived of her property without due process
of law Whether property is taken without due process depends on the nature of each case. Leigh v Green, 193 U S.
79, 87, Del Castillo v McConnwo, 168 U. S.674, 680. By
leaving the State and not demanding arrearage of interest
plaintiff ran no risk except to be barred by the twenty-one
year state statute of limitations. She made her demand prior

CUNNIUS v. READING SCHOOL DIST.
198 U. S.

Argument for Plamntiff in Error.

to that time. and any attempt to turn her claim over to another meanwhile deprived her of it without due process.
If her departure from Pennsylvania and her omission to demand her arrearages for a period of eleven years worked an
m3ury to any one, it was to herself alone, and not to hny public
right such as-would bring this case within the police p-owers
of the State. Clapp v Houg, 98 N. W Rep. 710; Lavin v
Bank, 1 Fed. Rep. 641, 668. She was under no legal obligation to remain in Reading.
The object of the act is to administer on the estates of persons presumed, from all the evidence at hand, to be dead.
As to the construction of the act see Devlin v Commonwealth, 101 Pa. St. 273. And while the state court has held
that its, object is to conserve the estate rather than distribute
it, it still deprives a living person of his property without due
process. Clapp v Houg, 98 N. V Rep. 710; and it is not the
purpose but the effect of an act that determines its constitutionality Pa. R. R. Co. v Ribble, 66 Pa. St. 164, S. C., 92
U. S. 259; Carr v Brown, 20 R. I. 217, Lawn v Bank, 1
-Fed. Rep. 641, 661, Davuson v New Orleans, 96 U. S.97,
102.
The orphans' court had no jurisdiction over the person of
the plaintiff and could not, in the absence of personal service,
or the voluntary appearance of the plaintiff in the proceeding,
render a decree or order which would be binding on her personally Herrman on Estoppel, p. 201, § 182, Boswell v Otis,
9 How 336, Lafayette Ins. Co. v French, 18 How 408, Pennoyer v Neff, 95 U S.714.
Taking the private property of one person and transferring
it to another, is not due process of law Wilkinson v Leland,
2 Pet. 627, 657, Ernne's App., 16 Pa. St. 264, Missouri R. R.
Co. v Nebraska, 164 U S.403, Johnson v Beasley, 65 Missouri,
264, King v Hatfield, 130 Fed. Rep. 583, Dodge v Missourt
Township, 107 Fed. Rep. 637
The appointment of the administrator is open to collateral
attaco. Stevenson v Superior Ct., 62 California, 65, Hamilton

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant m Error.

193 U. S.

v Brown, 161 U' S. 267 A void judgment or decree is always
open to collateral attack. 1 Herman on Estoppel, 64.
For authorities on. the invalidity of letters of administration
upon the estate of a living person see Carr v Brown, 20 R. I.
217, Clapp v Houg,98 N. W Rep. 710; Lamn v Bank, 1 Fed.
Rep. 641, Scott v McNeal, 154 U S.34, and cases cited p. 50.
To decide abstractly whether a State can by a statute clothe
its courts with certain powers would not*be to the point, because the same act of assembly may be valid as to some persons and the reverse as to others. Rothermel v. Myerle, 136
Pa. St. 250, 266, Presserv Illinois, 116 U S. 252. The persons
as to whom an act is constitutional may not be before the
court. Granting that the State through an act of assembly
has clothed a court with certain powers, the real- point at issue
is the effect of the operation of those powers on the rights of
the party'before the court.
The legal situs of plaintiff's property, that is, the right-to the
arrearages of interest owing her by the School District, as well
as the situs .of-h arrearages themselves for which the defendant was indebted, was in California at the time of the proceedings. New Orleans v Stempel, 175 U S.310, 313, 314, Tax
on Bonds, 15 Wall. 300, 320.
The proceeding under the act of 1885 is not of such a char-acter as to constitute it a proceeding against property, thereby
making it a proceeding in rein, for the property is not proceeded
against nor taken possession of until after the appointment of
the administrator in pursuance .of a proceeding and a decree
of a court of which the lawful owner of the prdperty had fio
notice and to which he was neither party nor privy See
Leigh v Green, 193 U S.79, 91, Leber v Kauffelt, 5 W & S.
-Pa. 440, 445.
Mr. Frederick W Nicolls, by special leave of court, with whom
Mr William Rick was on the brief, for defendant in error.
The act of 1885 created a jurisdiction in the orphans' court
over the property of people living and coing within its terms

CUNNIUS v. READING SCHOOL DIST.
198 U. S.

Argument for Defendant m Error.

and this comes within the definition df jurisdiction to hear
and determme a cause as declared by tins court i United
Stares v Arredondo, 6 Pet. 709; Cooper v Reynolds, 10 Wall.
316, and differentiates it from Allen v Dundas, 3 T. R. 129;
Griffith v Frazer,8 Cr. 9,.23, as shown imRodertgas v Sainngs
Institution, 63 N. Y 4Q0; Plume v Sarongs Institzution, 17
Vroom, 211.
For cases stating as a mere obiter dictum, that admmistra.tion upon the estate of the living is a nullity see Day v Floyd,
130 Massachusetts, 488, 489; Andrews v Avory, 14 Gratt. 229,
236, Moore v Smith, 11 Rich. 569; Withers v Patterson, 27
Texas, 491, 497, Johnson v Beazsjy, 65 Missouri, 250, 264,
Pemj v St. Joseph & Western Railroad, 29 Kansas, 420, 423,
Fish v, Nowell, 9 Texas, 13, 18, Morgan v Dodge, 44 N. H.
255, 259; Quidort'sAdm. v Pergeaux, 18 N. J Eq. 472, Martin
v Robinson, 67 Texas, 368, Waters v..Stckney, 12 Allen, 1, 13,
Hamilton v Brown, .161 U S. 256, 267 For those where the
question was directly in issue, see French v Frazer, 7 J J.
Marsh, 425, 427, State v White, 7 Ired. 116, Duncan v Stewart,
25 Alabama, 408, Melia v Simmons, 45 Wisconsin, 334,
Thomas v People, 107 Illinois, 517, Jochumsen v Suffolk SavBank, 3 Allen, 87, 96, Devlin v Commonwealth, 101 Pa. St.
jngs
273, Burns v Van Loan, 29 La. Ann. 560, 563, Springer v
Shavender, 118 N. Car. 33, Schlewher v Gutbrod, 34 S. W.
Rep. 550;.Stevenson v Superior Court, 62 California, 65, Scott
v McNeal, 154 U S. 34. All of these were decided m, the
absence of any local statute similar to the act of 1885. There
are some other authorities which refer directly to the existence
of such local statute as a circumstance which might alter the
case. 2 Wharton on Evidence, § 810; D'Arusment v Jones,
4 Lea, 251.
The legislatilre can make a valid grant of jurisdiction to
its courts over any legitimate subject matter, provided the
subsequent steps be according to law Such a grant of au-t
thority the Pennsylvania assembly directly conveyed by the
act of 1885. It is an elementary priiciple that. statutes are
VOL. OUX -30

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant m Error.

198 U. S.

to be cQnstrued according to the intention of the legislature.
The intention of.the legislature to confer jurisdiction over the
subject matter is clear beyond a peradventure.
The former practice was for the register to grant letters
upon the common law presumption of death after seven years'
ubsence. But this method was rendered worthless by the
opinion in Devlin v Commonwealth, 101 Pa. St. 272, delivered
in Noverpber, 1882, which held such administration absolutely
void. The law was thus. left in chaotic condition, for if a
resident of the State disappeared, there was no way of settling
his estate. This predicament occasioned the almost immediate
passage of the act of 1885.
The grant to a court of jurisdiction over the estates of those
who by reason of long absence are probably dead would seem a
highly beneficial, and, if the process were proper, a legal and
rational, exercise of legislative discretion. As to legislative
grants of a generally similar jurisdiction which have been
passed upon by Federal courts see Arndt v Gmggs, 134 U S.
316, Boswell v Ohw, 9 How 336, Bennett v Fenton, involving
18 Stat. 472, 41 Fed. Rep. 283, Roller v Holley, 176 U S.398.
And see also Shepperd v Ware, 48 N. W Rep. 773, Gray v.
Galis, 37 Wisconsin, 614.
The orphans' court having authority over the estates of
'absentees presumed to be dead, who have left property within
the jurisdiction of the court, the proceedings thereon are
adapted to like cases of administration upon actual decedents,
follow such precedents as closely as possible, and are, therefore,
substantially proceedings -in rem. Kinselman v Stine, 192
Pa. St. 462, Shaupe v Shaupe, 12 S.& R. 9; Schalls' App.,
40 Pa. St. 170; Furness v Smith, 30 Pa. St. 520; State Tax on
Foreqn-held.Bonds, 15 Wall. 300, distinguished., See Savmngs
$ocwty v Multnomah County, 169 U S.421, Bristol v Washsngton County, 177 U S. 133, Wyman v Halstead, 109 U. S.
654.
Proceedings under the act of 1885, being adapted to like
cases of administration' upon the estates of the dead, are. sub-

CUNNIUS v. READING SCHOOL DIST.
198 U. S.

Opinioa of the Court.

stantially proceedings in ren and constructive notice, if reasonable, is sufficient. Pennoyer v Ncff, 95 U S. 727, Woodnrff
v Taylor, 20 Vermont, 73, Freeman on Judgments, §-607,
Black on Judgments, § 793, 808, Freeman v Alderson, 119
U. S. 185, Heudritter v Oil Cloth Co., 112 U S. 294, 302, Herman on Estoppel, § 327, Runyan's Appeal, 27 Pa. St. 121,
Quidort's Adm. v Pergeaux, 18 N. J Eq. 472, 477, Vanderpool
v Van Valkenburgh, 6 N. Y 190; Storey v Storey, J'20 Illinois,
244.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

In their ultimate aspect the assignments of error and the
propositions based on them all rest on the assumption that
the State of Pennsylvania had no jurisdiction over the person
or property of the absentee, and therefore the proceedings
for the appointment of the admiitrator and all acts done by
hun were void and subject to collateral attack. But to uphold
this contention, in a broad sense, would be to deny the possession by the various States of powers which they obviously
have the right to exert. That the debt due the absentee by
the School District, resulting from the establishment, of her
dower, was, within the jurisdiction of the state authority,, is
clear. It would undoubtedly have been subject to administration under the laws of Pennsylvania had the absentee been
in fact dead. Wyman v Halsted, Administrator, 109 U S.
654, 656,-Sayre v Helme, 61 Pa. St. 299, Mansfield v 111cFarland,202 Pa. St. 173, 174. The debt was certainly subject
to taxation, and, being so subject, had it been taxed, the

State would have had power to provide remedial process for
the collection of the tax. Savngs Society v Multnomah County
169 U- S. 421, 428, Bristol v Washington County, 177 U S. 133:
Moreover it would have been in the power of the State to subject the debt to attachment at the instance of a creditor of the
absentee. Harris v Balk, 198 U. S. 215. -And that the law

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

of Pennsylvania would have authorized such an attachment
is also clear. Furness v Smith, 30 Pa. St. 520, 522.. It may
not also be doubted that the State of Pennsylvania had authority to enact an applicable statute of limitations.
Shrinking from the conclusion to which the assertion of the
want of jurisdiction m the State over the debt logically leads,
the foregoing propositions are not seriously disputed. It is,
however, insisted that they are nbt determinative of the power
of the State to provide for the administration of the property
of a person who, having been domiciled in the State, has absented himself for an unreasonable time, leaving no trace of
his whereabouts. The contentions on this subject are thus
stated in the brief of counsel.
"In a word, the case before the court is one in which the
private property of one person was, without her knowledge
or consent, transferred to another who in reality had no shadow
of a right to it, by virtue of an ex parte proceeding of which the
owner had no lawful notice. Is it possible that such a manifest infringement of the fundamental and inherent nghtswhich
belong to every person in the use and enjoyment of his private
property can be construed to be due process of law?"
Again.
"If the plaintiff's departure from Pennsylvania and her
omission to demand her arrearages for the period of eleven,
years, work an injury to any one, it was to herself alone and not
to any public right such as would bring this case within the
police power of the State. Plaintiff was under no legal obligation to remain in Reading."
It will be observed that the propositions challenge the authority -of the State to enact the statute which formed the
basis of the proceedings, not only because it is insisted that
there was a complete want of power to do so, but also because,
even if the State had power, the method of procedure which
tie statute authorized was so wanting in notice as not to
constitute due process of law We shall consider these objections separately"

CUNNIUS v. READING SCHOOL DIST.
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

1st. Was the state statute providing for the administration
of the property of an absentee under the circumstances contemplated by the statute so beyond the scope of the State's
authority as to 0onstitute a want of due process of law within
the intendment of the Fourteenth Amendment? That the
Amendment does not deprive the States of their police power
over subjects within their jurisdiction is elementary The
question then is, not the wisdom of the statute, but whether
it was so beyond the scope of municipal government as to
amount to a want of due process of law The solution of this
inquiry leads us therefore to consider the general power of
government to provide for the administration of he estates
of absentees under the conditions enumerated in the Penn~ylvania law We do no pailse to demonstrate, by original reasoning, that the right to regulate concerning the estate o"r
property of absentees is an attribute, which, in its very essence,
must belong to all governments, to the end that they may be
able to perform the purposes for which government exists.
This is not done, because we propose rather to test the question
by ascertaining how far such authority has been deemed a
proper governmental attribute in all times and under all conditions. If it be found that an authority of that character has
ever been trea&d as belonging to government and embraced
m the right to protect and foster the well-being and order- of
society, it must follow that that which has at all times been
conceded to be within the power of government, cannot, in
reason, be said to be so beyond the scope of governmental authority that the exertion of such a power must be held to be
a waht of due process of law, even although there is no con-stitutional limitation affecting the exercise of the power.
Whilst it may be th.at under the Roman Law there was no
complete and coherent system provided for the administration
of the estate of an absentee, Toullier, title 1, No. 379; Duranton, title 1, No. 384, it is. nevertheless certain that absence,
without being heard from for a given length of time, authorized
the appointment of a curator to protect and administer an

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

estate. See the references to the Roman Law on that subject
in Domat, liv 2, tit. 2, section 1, No. 13. That m the ancient
law -of France, under varying conditions, the same governmental right was recognized is also undoubted. Journal du
Palais Rep. Verbo Absence, p. 20, from No. 9 to 25. ,In the
Code Napoleon the subject is especially provided for under a
title treating of absence, in which ample provision is made for
the administration of the property of the Vbsentee, the law
providing for, first, the provisional and ultimately the final
distribution of such .property in accordance with the restrictions and regulations which the title provides. Code Nap.
title 4, article 112 et seq. Demolbmbe, in generally treating
upon the subject, thus expounds the fundamental conceptions
from which the power of government on the subject is derived.
"Three characters of interest invoke a necessity for legislation concerning this difficult and inportant subject.
First. The interest of the person himself who has disappeared.
If it is true that generally speaking every person is held at his
own peril to watch over, his own property, nevertheless the
law owes a duty to protect those who from mcapacity are
unable to direct-their affairs. It is upon this principle of public
order that the appointment of tutors to minors or curators to
the insane rests. It is indeed natural to presume that a person
who has disappeared, if he continues to exist, is prevented
from returning by some obstacle stronger than his own will,
and which, therefore, places him in the category of an incapable
person, whose interest it is the duty of the law to protect.
And it is for this reason that the provisions as to absence i
the code are placed in the chapter treating of the status of
persons because the absentee, in the legal sense, is a person
occupying a peculiar legal status. Second. The duty of the
lawmaker to consider the rights of third parties against the
absentee, especially those who have rights which would depend upon the death of the absentee. Third. Finally, the
general interest of society which may require that property

CUNNIUS 9. 1EADING SCHOOL DIST.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

does not remain abandoned without some one representing it
"
and without an owner.
And it may not be doubted that the power to deal with tthe
estate of an absentee was recognized and exerted not only by
the common law of Germany, but also by the codes of the
various States of the continent of Europe. De Saint Joseph
Concordance entre les Codes Civils Etrangers et le Code Napoleon, vol. 1, page 11.
Drovisions similar in character to those of the Code Napoleon were incorporated m the Civil Code of Louisiana of 1808
under the head of absentees in book 1 of that code, defining the
status of persons, and such provisions have been in force from
that day to the present time. Louisiana Civil Code, article 47,
et seq. The provisions of that code on the subject were referred
to by this court in Scott v McNeal, 154 U S. 34, 41. Under
the law of England, as stated in that case, a presumption of
death arose from an absence of seven years without being
heard from, and whilst it is true, as we shall hereafter have
occasion to say, that such presumption was not conclusive and
was rebuttable, nevertheless the very fact of the presumption
occasioned by absence, irrespective of the force of the presumption, was a manifestation of the power to give legal effect
to the status arising from absence.
As the preceding statement shows that the right to regulate
the estates of absentees, both in the common and civil law,
has ever been recognized as being within the scope of governmental authority, it must follow that the proposition that the
State of Pennsylvania was wholly without power to legislate
concerning the property of an absentee, is without merit, unless it be that the authority of a State over the subject, is
restrained by some constitutional limitation. That the constitution of Pennsylvania does not put such a restriction, is
foreclosed by the decision of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in this case. But it is insisted, conceding that the State
of Pennsylvania had power to provide for the administration
of the property of an absentee, yet that authority could not

OCTOBER TERM, 1904,
Opinion of the Court.

198 tT. S.

'be, exerted without violating' the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment if the administrative proceeding,
brought into play under the exercise of the authority, is made
binding upon the absentee if it should subsequently develop
that he was alive when the administration was initiated. To
sustain this proposition numerous decisions of'state courts of
last resort are relied upon, which are enumerated in the margin, 1
and special reliance is placed upon the decision of this court
in Scott v McNeal, supra. We are of opinion, however, that
the cases relied upon, with one or two exceptions hereafter to
be noticed, are inapposite to this case. The leading cases
were reviewed in Scott v McNeal, and their Inapplicability to
the present case will therefore be demonstrated by a brief
consideration of. Scott v McNeal.
In that case a probate court in the State of Washington had
issued letters of administration upon the estate of a person
who had disappeared, and proceeded to administer his estate
as that of a dead. person upon the presumption .of death, which
the court assumed had arisen from his absence. There was
no statute of the State of Washington providing for an administration of the estate of an absentee as such, and creating
rights and safeguards applicable to that situation, as distinct
'from the general law of the State, conferrmg upon courts of
probate power to administer the estates of deceased persons.
Referring to the presumption under the law of England of
I French v Frazier'sAdm'r, (1832) 7 J. J. Marsh, 425, 432; State v. White,
(1846) 7 Ired. 116; Duncan v. Stewart, (1854) 25 Alabama, 408, 414; Moore
,v. Smith, (1858) 11 Rich. (Law) 569; Jochumsen v. Suffolk Sainngs Bank,
(1861) 3 Allen, 87, Morgan v. Dodge, (1862) 44 N. H. 255, 259; Withers v.
Patterson, (1864) -27 Texas, 491, 498; Qudort's Adm'r v. Pergeaux, (1867)
3 C. E. Green, (18 N. J. Eq.) 472, 477; Melia v. Simmons, (1878) 45 Wisconsin, 334,337; D'Arusment v. Jones, (1880) 4 Lea (72 Tenn.), 251, Devlin
v. Commonwealth, (1882) 101 Pa. St. 273; Stevenson v. Superior Court,
(1882) 62 California, 60, 65; Thomas v. The People, (1883) 107 Illinois, 517;
Perry, Adm'r, v. St. Joseph & W R. Co., (1883) 29 Kansas, 420, 423; Epping
v. Ronnson, (1884) 21 Florida, 36, 49; Martin v. Robinson, (1887) 67 Texas,
368; Springer v. Shavender, (1895) 116 N. Car. 12;.S. C., 118 N. Car. 33;
Carrv. Brown, (1897) 20'R. I. 215; Clapp v. Houg, (1904) 12 N. Dak. 600.

CUNNIUS . READING SCHOOL DIST.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

death arising from absence, it was held that such presumption
was not coliclusive, and was absolutely rebutted by proof that
the person who was presumed from .the fact of absence to be
dead was, in fact, alive. Having establishedl this propositibn,
it was then held, as death was essential to confer jurisdictioh
on a probate court to administer an estate as such, the fact
of life at the time the administration was initiated conclusively
rebutted the presumption and caused the court to be wholly
without jurisdiction to administer the estate of a person who
was alive. This conclusion was abundantly sustamedlby a
citation of the English and American adjudications, in none
of which was the doctrine upon which the case proceeded more
cogently stated than in the opinion of this court, speaking
through Chief. Justice Marshall, in, Griffith v Frazer, 8 Cr.
9, 23. That the opinion, however, in Scott v McNeal was not
intended to and did not imply that the States were wholly
devoid of power to endow their courts with jurisdiction under
proper conditions to administer upon the estates of absentees,
even though they might be alive, by special and app.opriate
proceedings applicable to that condition as distinct troin the
general power to administer the estates of deceased persons,
is conclusively shown by the opinion in Scott v McNeal. Thus,
the law of Louisiana, providing for the administration of the
property of absentces, as distinct from the authority conferred
to administer the estates of deceased persons, was approvingly
referred to. And, moreover, as showing that it was deemed
that the absence of legislation by the State.of Washmgton of
a similar character was the determinative factor in the case,
the court said (p. 47)
"The local law on the subject, contained in the Code of
1881 of the Territory of Washington, in force at the time of
the proceedings now in question, and since continued in force
by article 27, section 2, of the constitution of the State,
does not appear to us to warrant the conclusion that the
probate court is authorized to. conclusively decide, as against
a living person,, that he is dead, and his estate therefore

OCTOBER TERMT,

1904.

Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

subject to be administered and disposed of by the probate
court.
"On the contrary, that law, in its very terms, appears to us
to recognize and assume the death of the owner to be a fundamental condition and prerequisite to the exercise by the probate
court of jurisdiction to grant letters testamentary or of admmstration, upon his estate, or to license any one to sell his
lands for the payment of his debts."
After copiously reviewing the Washington statutes and
pointing out that they dealt with the estates of deceased persons as such, the case was summed up in the following language:
"Under such a statute, according to the overwhelming
weight of authority, as shown by the cases cited in the earlier.
part of this opinion, the jurisdiction of the court to which is
committed the control and management of the estates of deceased persons, by whatever name it is called, ecclesiastical
court, probate court, orphans' court, or court of the ordinary
or the surrogate, does not exist or take effect before death.
All proceedings of such courts in the probate of wills and the
granting of administrations depend upon the fact that a
person is dead, and are null and void if he is alive. Their jurisdiction in this respect being limited to the estates of deceased
persons, they have no jurisdiction whatever to administer and
dispose of the estates of living persons of full age and sound
mind, or to determine that a living man is dead and thereupon
undertake to dispose of his estate."
True it is that there are some general expressions found in
the opinion (p. 50), which, if separated from the context of
the opinion, might lead to the conclusion that it was held that
a State was absolutely without power to provide by a special
proceeding 'for the administration and care of the property of
an absentee, and to confer jurisdiction on its courts to do so,
irrespective of the fact of death. But these general expressions are necessarily controlled by the case which was before
the court, and by the. context of the opinion, which makes.it

CUNNIUS v. READING SCHOOL DIST.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

clear that it was alone decided that under a law giving jurisdiction to probate courts to administer the estates of deceased
persons, even although a rebuttable presumption existed as
to death after a certain time, that if such presumption was
subsequently rebutted by the proof of the fact of life that the
court,-whose authority depended upon death, was devoid of
jurisdiction.
We have said that two of the cases relied upon would be
separately noticed. Those cases are Carr v Brown, 20 R. I.
217, and Clapp v Houg, 12 N. Dak. 600. In the first case
there was a statute of Rhode Island providing for admmistration under the presumption of death after an absence of
seven years, and it was decided that the statute was void.
The opinion leads to the view that the conclusion of the court
was primarily based upon the construction that the statute
did not create a conelusive presumption conferring jurisdiction in the event the absentee was alive and not dead. In the
second case there was also a statute of the State of North
Dakota, but the court held it to be void, because of the inadequacy of the notice for which it provided. There are, in
both of the cases, expressions tending to the vev that the
State was without power to provide by special legislation for
the administration of the property of an absentee. In so far,
of course, as these views were rested upon the state constitution, we are not concerned with them. In so far, however,
as they intimate that by the operation of the Fourteenth
Amendment the States are deprived of power to legislate concerning the estates of absentees, we do not approve them.
The error underlying the argument of the plaintiff in error
consists in treating as one two distinct things, the want of
power in a State to administer the property of a person who is
alive, under its general authority to provide for the settlement
of the estates of deceased persons, and the power of the State
to provide for .the administration of the estates of persons
who are absent for an. unreasonable time, and to enact reasonable regulations on that subject. The distinction between tie

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

198 U. S.

two is well illustrated in Pennsylvania,. for in that State, prior
to the enactment of the statute in question, it had been expressly decided that a court of probate as such was absolutely
wanting in jurisdiction to administer the estate of a person
who was alive simply because there existed a presumption
which was rebuttable as to the fact of death. This.is also
aptly illustrated by the law of Louisiana. In that State, as
we have seen, provisions have existed from the beginning for
the administration of the estates of absentees as distinct from
the power conferred upon the courts of probate to administer
the estates of deceased persons.' In this condition of the law,
under an averment of death an estate was opened in a probate
court of Louisiana and administered upon. A question as to
the validity of that administration subsequently arose in
Burns v Van Loan, 29 La. Ann. 560, 563. As the proceedings
were probate proceedings not taken under the statute provid'ing for the administration of the estates of absentees,, the
Supreme Court of the State' of Louisiana declared them to be
absolutely void. As it cannot be denied that in substance the
Pennsylvania statute is a special proceeding for the administration of the estates of absentees distinct from the general law
of that State providing for the settlement of the estates of
deceased persons, and as by the express terms of the statute
jurisdiction was conferred upon the proper court to grant the
administration, it follows that- the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, did not deprive the plaintiff in error of due process
of law within the intendment of the Fourteenth Amendment.
2d. It remains only to consider the contention that even
although there was power to enact the statute, it is nevertheless repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment, because it fails
to provide notice as a prerequisite to the administration which
the statute authorizes and because of the absence from the
statute of essential safeguards for the protection of the property of the absentee which is to be administered. Let it be
conceded, as we think it must be, that the creation by a state
law of an arbitrary and unreasonable presumption of death

KENDALL v. AMERICAN AUTOMATIC LOOM CO. 477
f98 U. S.

Syllabus.

resulting from absence for abref period, would be a want of
due process of law, and therefore repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment. Let it be further conceded, as we also think
is essential, that a state law which did not provide adequate
notice as prerequisite to the proceedings for the administration of the estate of an absentee would also be repugnant to
the Fourteenth Amendment. Again, let it be conceded that
if a state law, m.providing for the administration of the estate
of an absentee, contained no adequate safeguards concerning
property, and amounted therefore simply to authorizing the
transfer of the property of the absentee to others, that such
a law would be repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment.
We think none of these concessions are controling in this case.
So far as the period of absence provided by the statute in
question, it certainly cannot be said to be unreasonable. So
far as the notices which it directs to be issued, we think they
were reasonable. As concerns the safeguards which the statute creates for the-protection of the interest of the absentee
in case he should return, -we content ourselves with saying that
we think, as construed by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
the provisions of the statute do not conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment.
Affirmed.

KENDALL v. AMERICAN AUTOMATIC LOOM COXfPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
NO. 541. Submitted April 24, 190.-Decided May 29, 1905.

This court can review by appeal under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891,
the judgment of the Circuit.Court dismissing the bill on the sole ground
that it never acquired jurisdiction over the defendant,, a foreign corporation, for lack ot proper service of process. Board of Trade v. Hammond Elevator Co., ante, p. 424.

