OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

question remains whether the particular charter here in question made it a condition precedent to the existence of the
W L. Wells Company as a corporation, that a certain amount
of its capital stock should be subscribed and paid for. As
already indicated, we are of opinion that no such condition
precedent was prescribed, -and that -under the statutes of
Mississippi and independently of the subscription of a certain
amount of stock and its payment, the plaintiff became, in
law a corporation when the Governor approved its charter and
the fact of such approval was certified by the Secretary of
State under the Great Seal of Mississippi. It could not thereafter dispute its liability for acts done by it in its corporate
name nor be denied the right to sue in that name.
As the Circuit Court of Appeals proceeded on different
grounds as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, its judgment must be reversed, alld the case remanded, with directions to that court to set aside its own judgment, and for such
further proceedings touching the merits of the case as may
be consistent with this opinion and with law
Reversed.

RIVERDALE COTTON MILLS, PETITIONER v. ALAMANUFACTURING COMPANY.
BAMA AND GEORGIA
I
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 194. Argued April 5,6,1905.-Decided May 8, 190.
A Federal court exercising a jurisdiction apparently belonging to it, may
thereafter, by ancillary suit, mqure whether that jurisdiction m fact
existed, and may protect the title which it has decreed as against all
parties to the original suit and prevent any of such parties from relitigating questions of right already determined.
Where parties litigate m a Federal court .whose jurisdiction is invoked

RIVERDALE MILLS v. MAN UFACTURING CO.
198 U. S.

189

Statement of the Case.

-on thg'ground of diverse citizenship, alleged and admitted,.the ju(Igment
or decree winch is entered:is conclusive and cannot be upset by either of
them m any other -tribunal on the mere ground that diverse citizenship
did not actually exist.
In an anbillary suit a party to the original action cannot. challenge the
junsdiction of the Circuit Court in the original action on the ground that
its admission of citizenship was an error and that a correct statement
'would have disclosed a lack of jurisdiction.
Although where two corporations of the same name, chartered by different
States, exist and there has been no merger, the corporations are separate legal persons, the court-may, where the circumstances as m this
case justify it;look beyond the formal and corporate differences and
regard substantial rights rather than the mere matter of orgamzation.
Federal tribunals are not moot courts, and parties having substantial rights
must, when brought before those tribunals, present those rights or they
may lose them.

ON February 7, 1866, an act passed the Alabama legislature
incorporating five persons named, their associates and successors, as "The Alabama and Georgia Manufacturing Company." On March 21, 1866, the Georgia legislature incorporated the same-Imdividuals under the same name, "The Ala-

bama and Georgia. Manufacturing Company"

The purposes

of the two corporations were identical. Among others, the use
of the water power of the Chattahoochee River, the boundary

line between Alabama and Georgia, was contemplated, and
the Georgia act specifically authorized the corporation "1fo

carry on any of the busnss and manufactures, or any branch
or branches of the same, in this State that said charter authorizes them to engage in or carry on in the State of Alabama."
On January .2,.1884i the Alabama and Georgia Manufacturing
Company executed a trust deed, conveying property, situate
partly-m Georgia and partly in Alabama, but practically only

a single plant, to J J Robinson, W C. Yancey and W T.
Huguley, as trustees, to secure the payment of sixty-five
thousand dollars of the mortgage bonds. There is nothing in

the trust deed to. indicate whether it was execited by the
Alabama corporation or the Georgia corporation, except it be

the mention of West Point, Georgia, as the location of the
company's office,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

On February 28, 1890, the Huguley Manufacturing Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Alabama,
and subsequently acquired by purchase all the property mcludedwithin the trust deed. Default having been made m
the payment of interest on the bonds, Robinson, one of the
trustees and a citizen of Alabama, on January 21, 1891, filed
a bill of foreclosure in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Georgia against the Alabama and
Georgia Manufacturing Company, the Huguley Manufacturing
Company, each of which was alleged to have been created
under the laws of the State of Georgia and a resident and
citizen of that State, and against W. T. Huguley, also averred
to be a citizen of the State of Georgia, and.all three residing
within the Northern District of Georgia. In the bill the plaintiff alleged that Yancey, one of the trustees, was dead; that
Huguley, the other trustee, was interested adversely to the
bondholders, and that plaintiff was, therefore, the only one
•authorized to bring the suit. A vast amount of litigation
concerning the property has followed the commencement of
this foreclosure suit, as partially appears from the following
references: Robinson v. Alabama & G. Mfg. Co., 48 Fed. Rep.
12 (1891), Robinson v. Alabama & G. Mfg. Co., 51 Fed. Rep.
268 (1892), Alabama & G. MIg. Co. v Robmnson, 56 Fed.
Rep. 690 (1893), Robznson v Alabama & G. Mfg. Co., 67
Fed. Rep. 189 (1894), Alabama & G. Mfg. Co. v Robinson,
72 Fed. Rep. 708 (1896), Robznson v Alabama & G. Mg.
Co., 89 Fed. Rep. 218 (1898), Huguley Mfg. Co. v Galeton
Cotton Mills, 94 Fed. Rep. 269 (1899), Huguley Mfg. Co. v
Galeton Cbtton Mills, 175 U S.726 (1899), Riverdale Cotton
Mills v Alabama & G. Mfg. Co., 111 Fed. Rep. 431 (1901),
Huguley Mfg Co. v Galeton Cotton Mills, 184 U. S.290 (1902),
In re The Huguley Mfg. Co., 184 U. S. 297 (1902), Alabama
& G. Mg. Co. v Riverdale Cotton Mills, 127 Fed. Rep. 497
(1904).
On May 2, .901, the Alabama and Georgia Manufacturing
Company of Alabama and the Huguley Manufacturing Coin-

RIVERDALE MILLS v. MANUFACTURING CO.
198 U. S.

191

counsel for Parties.

pany of the same State filed their bill in the Chancery Court
of the -First District of the Northeastern Division of the State
of Alabama, in which they alleged that the .plaintiff, the
Alabama and Georgia Manufacturing Company, was at one
time the owner of the property included withm the -trust deed
herembefore referred to, that it executed that deed to the
parties named as trustees; that a foreclosure suit was commenced by one of the trustees, J J. Robinson, in the United
States Circuit Court for the Northern District of Georgia,
that the parties named as defendants therein were the A]abama
and Georgia Manufacturing Company, alleged to be a corporation organized under the laws of Georgia, the said Ruguley
Manufacturing Company, and W T. Huguley The bill set
out with some detail the proceedings in the Circuit Court of
Georgia, but alleged that they were null and void so far as
concerns the title of the plaintiffs in that suit. The bill sought
to redeem the property described from the lien of the bonds
and trust deed. On June 10, 1891,.this petitioner, a corporation which had acquired all the title to the property described
in the trust deed passing under the foreclosure proceedings
hereinbefore referred to, filed in the Circuit Court for the
Northern District of Georgia an ancillary bill to restrain the
further prosecution of the suit in the state court in Alabama.
A temporary injunction was issued, which on final hearing
was made perpetual. Thereupon defendants took an appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which
reversed the decree of the Circuit Court and ordered that the
case be remanded to that court with instructions, to dismiss
the bill. The case was then brought here on certiora4i.
Mr. Louts D Brandeis, with whom Mr Thomas H. Watts
and Mr William H. Dunbar were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr Maron Erunn, with whom Mr John T Morgan, Mr.
John M. Chilton, Mr. William S. Thongton and Mr. Robert
Porter Shwl were on the brief, for respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opihion of the Court.

198 U. S.

MR. JusTIcE BREwER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
For over ten years, from January 21, 1891, the date of the
filing of the original bill, litigation was carried on in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Georgia,
and in appellate courts, in the fore6losure of a trust deed executed by the Alabama and Georgia Manufacturing Company.
In the course of that litigation decrees were entered and reversed, sales were made and set aside, possession of property
was transferred and retransferred, accountings had as to the
proceeds of property in possession, and when it seemed that
at last litigation was at an end, the foreclosure consummated
and the title established in the purchaser, we are told that it
all amounted to nothing; that parties, lawyers and courts have
been spending their time and labor in simply beating the air,.
the title to the property conveyed by the trust deed being
exactly where it was before the litigation commenced, and the
party which had acquired possession by that litigation subject to an obligation to account as a mortgagee in possession.
Upon what is this contention based? The respondents say
that the property conveyed by the trust deed was all in Alabama, although the deed recites that part of it was in Georgia,
that it originally belonged to the Alabama company; that that
company executed the trust deed, although the resolution
incorporated in the trust deed purports to have-been passed at
a meeting of the directors held at the office of the company
in West Point, Georgia; that the Alabama company was not
made a party to the foreclosure proceedings and could not
have been, because the plaintiff was a citizen of Alabama, and
malimg the Alabama company a defendant would have ousted
the court of jurisdiction; that the subsequent owner of the
property, another Alabama company, was also -not made a
party to those proceedings, and that therefore they were res
inter alios aca, and in no way binding upon either'Alabama
company It is also insisted by the respondents that the so-

RIVERDALE M1ILLS v. MA.NUFACTURING CO.
198 U. S.

193

Opimon of the Court.

called ancillary bill filed by the petitioner was not in any sense
of the term an ancillary but in fact an original bill, and that
under .section 720, Rev Stat., the Federal court had no power
to restrain the further proceedings in the state Chancery'
Court.
Prima acwe, the United States Circuit Court-had jurisdiction
of the foreclosure bill. Diverse citizenship was alleged and
a'dmitted, and the relief sought was the foreclosure of a trust
deed covering property partially in Georgia and partially in
Alabama. The bill in the state court challenged the decree in
the United States Circuit Court, demed'its efficacy to transfer
title, on the ground that the.Alabama and Georgia Manufacturing Company (the grantor in the trust deed and the original
owner of the property) and the iugufey Manufacturing Company (a purchaser and subsequent owner) were both corporations of Alabama and citizens of the same State with the
plaintiff, whereby a case was presented of which the Federal
courts could not take jurisdiction. The specifie, allegations
were these:
"That a corporation, known as the 'Alabama and Georgia
Manufaetulhg Company,' alleged to be a corporation organized under the laws of Georgia only, and said Huguley Manufacturing Company, together with the said W T. Huguley,
were the sole defendants to said bill, said W T. Huguley being
made defendant as co-trustee, alleged to be- interested adversely The Alabama and Georgia Manufacturing Company,
originally chartered and organized a a corporation under said
act of the general assembly of the State of Alabama, never has
been made a defendant thereto, and never appeared as a party
to said cause, the president of said corporation, to wit, W H
Huguley,. himelf likewise a citizen and resident of the county
Of Chambers, State of Alabama, nevier having been served
with notice either of said alleged default of. interest, as expressly required under the terms of the trust deed, or notice
of said suit of foreclosure against said Alabama and Georgia.
Manufacturing Company. - No attempt was .made, by either
VOL cxCvi-I-18

OCTOBER TERM1, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

direct or ancillary proceedings,, to subject the property lying
in the State of Alabama to this suit. A portion of the property
was erroneously described in the said mortgage as lying within
the county of Harris, m the State of Georgia, while the orators
aver that all of said property was and is situated within the
county of Chambers, in the State of Alabama.
"The property was not advertised in the State of Alabama,
nor was any sale or pretense' of sale conducted in said State."
And again

-

"The Huguley Manufacturing Company, a cbrporation, avers
purchased and'acquired all the property herein above
that -it
described subject to said mortgage, and is now the owner of
the same, subject to said mortgage."
The answer filed to the ancillary bill alleges that both
plaintiffs in the state court were corporations chartered under
the laws of Alabama. It further states:
"That while said Alabana and Georgia Manufacturing Co.
may have been incorporated in the State 6f Georgia, it.was also:
incorporated in the State 6f Alabama prior to the incorporation in the State of Georgia. And these respondents aver that
there never was, by the action of the State of Georgia and
Alabama, 'any merger or consolidation of said two corporations. They, therefore, allege that said Alabama and Georgia
Manufacturing Company, incorporated under the laws of
Alabama, was a distinct and separate legal entity from the
Alabama and Georgia Manufacturing Company incorporated
under the laws of .Georgia.
"That while said Huguley Manufacturing Company was
alleged in said bill to have been incorporated under the laws
of Georgia, the defendants aver that as a.matter of fact it was
never so incorporated."
It also avers that the property is all in the State of Alalbama.
The case was submitted on bill and answer.
It thus appears that a party carries on a litigation in a
Federal court on its merits , and when beaten in that court goes

RIVERDALE MILLS v. MANUFACTURING CO.
198 U. S.

195

Opinion of the Court.

into a state court and claims that, by reason of his own mtruthful admission of citizenship, the Federal court assumed
a jurisdiction which in fact it could not take, and that all the
proceedings in that court must go for naught. Under such
Eircumstances there can be no doubt that the Federal Icourt
may inquire and determine whether its proceedings were a
nullity, and such inquiry is not an original proceeding, but
ancillary to those which have already been had. In other
words, a Federal court, exercising a jurisdiction apparently
belonging to it, may thereafter, by ancillary suit, mquire
whether that jurisdiction in fact existed. It may protect the.
title which it has decreed as against every one a party to the
original suit and prevent that party from relitigating the
questions of right which have already been determined.
French, Trustee, v Hay, 22 Wall. 250; Cole v Cunningham,
133 U. S. 107, Root v Woolworth, 150 U S. 401. In this case,
on page 410, it was said.
"It is well settled that a court of equity has jurisdiction to
carry into effect its own orders, decrees, and judgments, which
remain unreversed, when the subject-matter and the parties
are the same in both proceedings. The general rule upon the
subject is thus stated in Story's Equity Pleading, 9th ed., § 338
'A supplemental bill may also be filed, as well after as before
a decree, and the bill, if after a decree, may be either in aid of
the decree, that it may be carried fully into execution.
"The jurisdiction of courts of equity to interfere and effectuate their own decrees by injunctions or writs of assistance
in order to avoid the relitigation of questions once settled between the same parties, is well settled. Story'a-Eq. Jur. §959;
Kershaw v Thompson, 4 Johns. Ch. 609, 612, Schenck v
Conover, 13 N: J Eq. [2 Beasley] 220; Buffum's Case, 13 N: H.
14, Sheperd v Towgood, Tur. & Rus. 379; Dams v Black, 6
Beav 393. In Kershaw v Thompson, the authorities are fully
reviewed by Chancellor Kent, and need not be re~xLm~ined
here."
See also Julian v Central Trust Company, 193 U S. 93,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904. .
Opnon of the Cour..

198 U. S.

which is very much in point. There, after a suit in a Federal
court for foreclosure of a mortgage resulting in decree, sale,
confirmation and delivery of possession to the purchaser, a
state court attempted to subject the property to a judgment
rendered in that court against the mortgagor on a cause of
action arising subsequently to the delivery of possession under
the foreclosure proceedings. And it was held within the competency of the Federal court to restrain the action in the state
court m order to protect the title it had conveyed by the foreclosure proceedings. In the opinion it was said (p. 112)
"If the sheriff is allowed to sell the very property conveyed
by the Federal decree, such action has the effect to annul and
set it aside, because in the view of the state court it was ineffectual to pass the title to the purchaser. In such case we
are of opinion that a supplemental bill may be filed in the
or gal suit with a view to .protecting the prior jurisdiction
of the Federal court and to render effectual its decree. Central
Trust Co. of New York v St. Lous, Arkansas &c. Railroad
Co., 59 Fed. Rep. 385, Fidelity Ins. Trust & Safe Deposit Co.
v Norfolk & W R. R. Co., 88 Fed. Rep. 815, State Trust Co.
v Kansas City&c. R. R. Co., 110 Fed. Rep. 10.
"In such cases where the Federal court acts in aid of its
own jurisdiction and to render its decree effectual, it may,
notwithstanding sec. 720, Rev Stat., restrain all proceedings
in a state court which would have the effect of defeating or
impairing its jurisdiction. Sharon v Terry, 36 Fed. Rep. 337,
per Mr. Justice Field, Frenchv Hay, 22 Wall. 250; Deitzsch v
Hutdekoper, 103 U. S. 494."
It must be borne in mind in this. connection that the Huguley
Manufacturing Company was made a party defendant and
appeared in the original foreclosure suit, and also that-it had
purchased the property and owned it subject to the trust deed.
So the bill in the state court specifically avers, and the record
of the proceedings in the foreclosure suit shows that it took an
active part in the litigation. It admitted in that litigation
that it was P citizen of Georgia. It now goes into a state court

IUVERDALE MILLS v.-VANUFACTURILNG CO.
198 U. S.

197

Opinion of the Court.

and, averring that it is a citizen of Alabama, the State of which
the plaintiff was a citizen, contends that the United States
court mnGeorgia had no jurisdiction, but having been in that
United States court litigating the case on its merits a~d its
rights there determined, that court has power to prot~ct its
decree as against any action which such litigant may take in
any other court.
It must also be remenibered that the trust deed described
the property conveyed as situated partly in Georgia and partly
in Alabama. The Federal court sitting in Georgia had jurisdiction to foreclose that trust deed. Muller v Dows, 94 U. S.
444. Even if there were errors or irregularities in the proceedings they would. not affect the matter of jurisdiction, and as
those proceedings have been sustained on appeal we may
assume that they were free from errors.
Where parties litigate in a Federal court, whose jurisdiction
is invoked on the ground of diverse citizenship, and that diverse
citizenship is alleged and. admitted, the judgment or decree
which is entered is conclusive and cannot be upset by either
of them in any other tribun4l on the mere ground that there
was in fact no diverse citizenship. Skillrn's Execut6rs v
May's Executors,-6 Cranch, 267, McCormwk v Sullivant, 10
Wheat. 192; Hancock v Holbrook, 119- U S. 586. In Des
Motnes Navigation Company v Iowa Homestead Company, 123
U. S.552, 557, we said.
"It was settled by this court; at a very early day, that,
although the judgments and decrees of the Circuit Courts
might be erroneous, if the records failed to show the facts on
which the jurisdiction of the court rested, such as that the
plaintiffs were citizens of different States from the defendants,
yet that they were not nullities, and would bind the parties
until reversed or otherwise set aside."
In Dowell v Applegate, 152 U. S.327, the validity of a decree
rendered by a Federal court was challenged on the ground of
a want of jurisdiction. In the opinion the question was thus
stated (p. 337)

OCTOBER TEI M, 1904.
Opnion of the Court.

198 U. S.

"If the Federal court erred in assuming or retaining jurisdiction of Dowell's suit-a question not necessary to be examined-would it follow that its final decree, being unmodified
and unreversed, can be treated as a nullity when assailed
collaterally by one who was a party to the suit in which it
was rendered?"
And after quotations from several Authorities the conclusion
was reached (p. 340)
"This disposes of the first objection urged against the decree
in the Federal court under which Dowell purchased. That
decree cannot be treated, in this suit, as void for want of jurisdiction."
See also Evers v Watson, 156 U. S. 527
Some of these cases, as appears from the quotations, go to
the extent of holding that, although on the face of the record,
jurisdiction does not appear, yet the judgments or decrees are
binding upon the parties thereto and cannot be assailed collaterally A fortwn, must it be true that when on the face of
the record jurisdiction appears the judgment or decree musf
be held conclusive against a collateral attack by either. of the
parties thereto. The Huguley Manufacturing Company was,
as is conceded in these ancillary proceedings, a party to the
original litigation, and cannot now be pernitted to challenge
the jurisdiction of the Federal court on the ground that its
admission of-citizenship was an error, and that a correct statement would have disclosed a lack of jurisdiction.
As appears from the record, the Huguley Manufacturing
Company was the owner of the equity of redemption at the
time the foreclosure suit was instituted. It, therefore, was
unnecessary to make the original grantor m .the trust deed a
party to,the litigation. All that could be accomplished by its
presence would be a decree putting at an end all question of its
interest, and, possibly, if a sale did not pay the debt, a judgBut neither of these re-ment oler for the- deficiency
sults would affect the jurisdiction of the court, so far as the
owner of the equity of redemption is poncerned, or impede

RIVERDALE MILLS v. MANUFACTURING CO.

198 U.-S.

199

Opinion of the Court.

the transfer of the title by foreclosure and sale to the purchaser.
Under the averments of the ancillary bill and answer it must
be accepted that there were two corporations under the same
name, the Alabama and Georgia Maniifacturing Compan4, one
chartered in Alabama, and the other in Georgia. It is doubtless true that, for the purposes of jurisdiction in the Federal
courts, these corporations are deemed to be citizens of the
States in which they were organized. It is also true that there
was no formal merger of the two corporations into one, that
the ' remained in law two separate legal persons, and that each
was entitled to .correspondinIg rights. But courts will sometimes look beyond the formal and corporate differences.
Especially is this true of courts of equity Substantial 'ights
will be regarded rather than the mere matter of organization.
Lehigh Mining & Manifactumng Company v Kelly, -160 U.. S.
327, illustrates -this. There it appeared that the Virginia Coal
and Iron Company was a corporation organized under the laws
of Virginia, and therefore a citizen of'that State, that it claned
title to certain lands in Virginia in the possession of the defendant, also a citizen of Virginia. There being no diversity of
citizenship, an action could be maintained only in -a court of
the State. To avoid this and to place the litigation in 'the
Federal court the stockholders of the coal and iron company
organized under the laws of Pennsylvania, the Lehigh.Miing
and Manufacturing Company The former company thereupon conveyed all its rights to the latter, which brought its
action for the recovery of the property in the United States
Circuit Court for the District of Virginia. While it was conceded that the purpose with which a party makes a conveyance
does not affect 'the title of his grantee, and while it was not
doubted that the two corporations were separate entities, yet
it was also held that, inasmuch as the stockholders in each
were, the same, and the organization of the Pennsylvania company was only for the purpose of getting the litigation into
the Federal court, it was a fraud on the iursdiction of that

OCTOBER TER9, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. 9.

court, and its order dismissing. the action for want of jurisdiction was affirmed. It was said in the opinion (p. 339),
"The arrangement by which, without any valuable consideration, the stockholders of the Virginia corporation organized
a Pennsylvania corporation and conveyed these lands to the
hew corporation for the express purpose-and no other purpose s stated or suggested-of creating a -case for the Federal
court, must he regarded as a mere device to give jurisdiction
-to a Circuit Court of the United States and as being, r.law,
a fraud upon that court, as well as a wrong to the defendaite.
Such a device cannot receive our sanction. The court below
properly declined to take cognizance of the case."
In the case before us there were also two corporationsdistinct legal entities-yet bearing the same name, the Alabama
and Georgia Manufdcturng Company It may well be doubted
whether any injustice has been done to the Alabama company
by the long litigation.. In the brief of one of the counsel for
respondents, after stating the, organization of the Alabama
company, it is said:
"In order to carry out the general plans and purposes of the
incorporators and organizers of the said Alabama company,
thus already organized and established, it was deemed necessary and important that these same -original incorporators and
organizers of the said Alabama corporation and their successors
should control the water rights of the Chattahoochee River, not
only through the riparian rights already granted them on the
western or Alabama side of the river by the State of Alabama,
but through .those of the State of Georgia on the eastern silde
of the river as well, i.e., at -the point on the eastern bank
opposite. where their manufacturing plant in, Alabama had
already been located- These incorporators had in view the
then purpose of-utilizing, if,not immediately, at least at some
future time, the recognized fine 'water power of the intervening
Chattahoochee River, by the proposed acquisition of other
-lands on the eastern or Georgia side of the river, -and the erection thereon of another sndependent manufacturing plant, and

1RVERDALE MILLS v. MAqUPA0VTUR1NG CO.
198 U. S.

201

Opinion of the.Court.

m such event, of using Columbus, or La Grange, Georgia., for
its offices and shipping points. Tb that end the said incorporators did not elect to ask the legislature of Georgia for any
express statutory license authorizing the preexzstng Alabama
company to exercise in Georgia the same powers and rights
which had. been given -itby the parent State of its creation
(Alabama), s. e., that it be 'domestwated' m Georgia by the laws
of that State, but the application was for the creation of a
separate and independent corporation under the same name,
and on March 21, 1866, 'The Alabama and Georgia Manufacturmg Company,' as a second, distinctly independent corporation, was granted a charter by the legislature of the State
of Georgia."
Whatever may have been within the scope of the ulterior
purpose of the Georgia incorporation, the immediate purpose
was the development of a single. plant, and that purpose was
carried into effect. By the charters the office of the Alabama
company was'located, m Alabama and- that of the Georgia
company n .Georgia. When the trust deed was executed'it
wag executed in the name which.was common to both corporations, but in pursuance of resolutions passed at an office inp
Georgia. It would be unjust to impute to these incorporators:
a design to mislead the holders of the indebtedness of the coin-.
pany by giving to them a security which rested alone upon the.
mconsiderable.-fraction of property then located in Georgia,
when, on the face of the instrument, it purported to convey
the entire plant. Evidently the proceedings were had on the
supposition that there was but a single entity That entity
was mdbVted, and it gave the trust deed as security therefor.
When the foreclosure suit was filed it would be also an unjust
.imputation to suppose that the owners of the property carried
on the litigation for years, knowing that the proper parties
were not present in court'and that the outcome of that litigation meant nothing. Evidently this gefense, springing from
the existence' of two corporations, was an afterthought, when
all other regources 'had failed, and equity may well say that to

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U.S.

sustain the present contention would give judicial sanction to
inexcusable trifling with courts. It is always to be understood
that Federal tribunals are not moot courts, and that parties
having substantial rights must when brought before those
tribunals present those rights or may lose them.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and that
of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

HOLDEN i,STRATTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 209. Submitted April 6, 190.-Decided Bray 8, 1906.
The statute of the State of Washington, Laws of 1897, p. 70, exempting
-proceeds or avails of all life insurance from all liability for any debt,
is not in conflict with the constitution of that State as cohstrued by
its highest court and exempts the proceeds of paid-up policies, and
endowment policies, payable to the assured during his lifetime.
Courts will not read into a broadly expressed state statute of exemption
limitations which do not exist therein because they do exist in similar
statutes of other States or because they deem the limitations equitable.
To do so would not be construction of the statute but legislation; and
the broad terms of the statute show an intention of the legislature of
the State to adopt broader and more comprehensive exemptions than
tho~e adopted by the other States.
Polities of, insurance which are exempt under the law of the State of the
bankrupt are exempt under § 6 of the bankrupt act of 1898, even though
they are endowment policies payable to assured during his lifetime and
have cas.i surrender values, and the provisions of § 70a of the act do not
apply to pblices which are exempt under the state law.
It has always beenthe policy of Congress, both in general legislation and
in bankrupt acts, to recognize and give effect to exemption laws of the
States.

SEPARATE proceedings in bankruptcy were begun in the
District Court of the United States for the District of Washington, Northlern Division, against Daniel N. Holden and

