WHITNEY v. WENAIAN.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

attorns to the assignee the delivery is complete. The statement has not this point in view But we should suppose that
a, fuller statement would make it plain that the Warehouse
Company knew and assented to the transfers to the Trust
Company, if that be material, which we do not imply See
also Unson Trust Co. v Trumbull, 137 Illinois, 146, 173, Millhiser Manuf. Co. v Gallego Mills Co., 101 Virginia, 579, 589;
Gibson v Stevens, 8 How 384, 399.
As we answer the first and second questions in the affirmative, it is unnecessary to consider the third.
It will be so certified.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE BREWER

and MR. Jus-

TICE DAY dissent.

WHITNEY v. WENMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED ,STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 570. Submitted April 24, 190-Decided Blay 29, iOS.
The bankruptcy court has jurisdiction of a proceeding in the nature of a
plenary action brought by the trustee to determine controversies in
relation to property held by the bankrupt or by other parties for him,
and the extent and character of liens thereon; and this applies to a suit
brought against parties claiming possession of goods in the bankrupt's
store, as warehousemen, under a nominal lease of the store from the
bankrupt.
A receiver in bankruptcy is appointed as a temporary custodian and it is
his duty to hold possession of property until the termination of the
proceedings or the appointment of the trustee, and meanwhile the bankruptcy court has possession of the property and jurisdiction to hear and
determine the interests of those claiming liens thereon or ownership
-thereof, and this jurisdiction canot be affected by the receiver turning
the property over to any person without the authority of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

B. WHITNEY, as trustee in bankruptcy of Daniel
Dresser
and Charles E. Riess, members of the firm of
LeRoy
Dresser & Company, filed a bill in equity against Charles
H. Wenman, Stuyvesant Fish, George C. Boldt, the Security
Warehousing Company and others, in the District Court of
the United States ,for the Southern District of New York.
Upon demurrer to the bill, the court dismissed the same
for want of jurisdiction. The allegations of the bill set forth
in substance: That on September 17, 1903, the complainant was duly appointed trustee in bankruptcy of. Dresser and
Riess, doing business as Dresser & Company, and that as such
trustee he qualified on September 29, 1903. That during the
time mentioned in the bill, and up to March 7, 1903, Dresser
& Company -were carrying on business as merchants in the
city of New York. That the defendants, the Security Warehousing Company and the United States Mortgage and Trust
Company, were corporations of the State of New York. That
the defendant, Charles H. Wenman, acted as the agent and
attorney in fact of the defendants Fish and Boldt. Prior to
March 7, 1903, the bankrupts, partners as Dresser & Company,
became insolvent, and on that day assigned all their property
for the benefit of their creditors. On March 9, 1903, upon the
petition of certain creditors, Robert C. Morris and Charles S.
Mackenzie were appointed by the-District Court for the Southern District of New York receivers in bankruptcy of Dresser
& Company That at least six months prior to March 7, 1903,
the firm of Dresser & Company had been insolvent and unable
to pay its debts, and was only able to continue in business by
borrowing large sums of money, and in order not to injure the
creditors it became necessary to pledge the goods, wares and
merchandise in which the company was dealing, but to conceal
said pledge from the unsecured creditors. That the goods
dealt with by Dresser & Company consisted for the most part
of Japanese silks imported for sale. For the purpose of pledging these goods with certain of the creditors, without the
knowledge of thd other creditors, Dresser & Company entered
EDWARD

VIHTNEY v. WVENMAN.
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

into a plan or arrangement with the defendants, the Security
Warehousing Company, to wit, a certain alleged lease of the
store, display and sales rooms was made by Dresser & Company to the Security Warehousing Company at a nominal
rental of one dollar a year, in order that thereafter the said
warehousing company might claim that the goods and display
and sales rooms belonged to it. That the goods in reality belonged to the firm of Dresser & Company, and there was no
change of location or ownership of the said goods, but Dresser
& Company remained m possession and control thereof and
permitted the display of them in the same manner as that firm
had done prior to the pretended storage. Dresser & Company
exhibited the goods to their customers, sending portions to
dyers and manipulators, and generally handled and used.them
as if they were their own, and free and clear from all claims
and encumbrances. That -the Security Warehousing Company exercised no supervision or control over the said goods,
but merely employed, or pretended to employ, the confidential
clerk and secretary of Daniel.LeRoy Dresser and Dresser &
Company, as its alleged custodian, in whose charge it was
claimed the goods had been placed at a salary of one dollar
per month. She exercised no control or supervision over the
goods, but during the period of her employment continued to
act as the confidential secretary of the bankrupts. The Security Company also placed a few small tags -on the shelves
and bins in which the goods were stored and displayed for sale,
upon which tags the name of the Security Company was
printed, but the tags were not easily discovered, and in most
instances were so placed as not to be readily seen and were not
of such a character as to identify the goods.
The bill then avers the issue of certain warehouse receipts
upon said goods, representing that .they had been stored with
the company at its.warehouse at 15-17 Greene street, New York,
which was, in fact, the store of Dresser & Company. Then
follow allegations as to the delivery of the warehouse receipts,
some to the United States Mortgage and Trust Company and

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

some to the defendant Wenman for himself or defendants Fish
and Boldt. And it is averred that the security histruments
did not describe the goods m such a way as to make them capable of identification. That Daniel LeRoy Dresser was one of
the mcorporators of the Security Warehousing Company, and
one of its directors and stockholders. That at the time of the
delivery of the security instruments Charles S. Mackenzie was
general counsel of the Security Company, and was fully cognizant of the system of pretended storage before described,
and was also personal counsel for Daniel LeRoy Dresser.
That after the delivery of the warehouse instruments Dresser
& Company continued to display and sell and dispose of the
goods and manage the business in the same manner that they
had been in the habit of doing prior to the said pretended storing, without objection from the Security Warehousing Com-

pany Then follow allegations as to the knowledge or opportunity for knowing on the part of the defendants of the
situation above described. When the receivers Morris and
Mackenzie went into possession of the stock of Dresser &
Company on March 9, 1903, upwards of $150,000 worth of
the goods was still in the possession and under control of
Dresser & Company After the receivers had taken possession of the store the Security Warehousing Company notified
them that it claimed that the store display and sales rooms
belonged to it under the alleged lease, and that the goods therein
contained had been stored with Dresser & Company, and requested the delivery of all the goods to it. The receivers did
not dispute this claim of the Warehousing Company, but complied with it. Neither the court or the unsecured creditors of
Dresser & Company were advised of the facts concerning this
claim or the character of'the pretended storing upon which the
issue of the so-called warehouse- receipts was based. Then
follow allegations as to the sale of the goods, and that the
Security Warehousing Company claimed that certain of the
goods supposed to have been stored with Dresser & Company
and covered by the security nstruments had been sold by

WHITNEY v. WENMAN.
198 U.S.

Argument for Appellant.

Dresser & Company before March 7, 1903, amounted to the
sum of $22,000. That said receivers- collected upwards of
$20,000 of accounts receivable of.Dresser & Company, and paid
the same over to the Security Warehousing Company That
these goods were sold and the accounts collected by the warehousing company before the appointment of complainant as
trustee in bankruptcy of Dresser & Company. None of said
goods or their proceeds have come into the hands of the trustee
except the sum of $1,944.93, paid to the complainant by the
Security Company Then follow averments as to the payment of the proceeds of the goods sold and accounts collected
to the other defendants and the holders of said warehouse
receipts. It is averred that the books and records of the Security Warehousing Company are lost or destroyed. It is
alleged that the attempt to create a lien upon the goods in the
manner aforesaid was contrary to law and the. statutes of the
State of New York. That the silk goods had been sold at much
less than their value. The prayer of the bill is that the security
instruments be declared invalid, fraudulent and void, and that
the complainant be decreed the owner of the goods and accounts, and that the defendants be required to account for
the value of the same, and for general relief as the nature of
the case may require.
Mr. Robert D. Murray, Mr. J. Aspznwal Hodge and Mr.
George H. Gilman for appellant:
The District Court had jurisdiction over this suit, because
the subject matter thereof is in its custody White v. Schloerb,
178 U. S. 542; Bardes v. Bank, 178 U. S. 524, distinguished.
Where a court of equity has taken possession of property
for any reason, and has placed it in the custody of receivers,
sequestrators or custodians, it will maintain its possession of
such property and will determine all rights with respect thereto,
even though the actual physical custody of the property may
have been parted with by its offibers, either under void orders
of the court, Minnesota Co. v St. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609, 632,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Argument for Appellant:

198 U. S.

or where the property has been obtained from the receiver or
other court officer, through collusion with him (as in this
case) or by fraud. De Winton v Brecon, 28 Beavan, 200.
See also Morgan's Co. v. Texas Central, 137 U. S. 171, 201;
Smith v Express Co., 135 Illinois, 279, 292; Sharpe v Doyle,
102 U. S. 686.
Section 70e of the bankrupt act, as amended, expressly
confers jurisdiction upon the District Court of a suit to set
aside transfers made prior to the filing of a petition.
Appellees are not bona fide holders of the silks and the accounts. Shaw v Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 557, Pollard v
Vinton, 105 U. S. 7 As to rights of the holders of warehouse
receipts see Fredlanderv Texas & Pacific, 130 U S. 415, 424;
The Carlos F Roses, 177 U S. 655, 665. The goods never
having been really stored the receipts are voidable. Yenrn
v McNamee, 45 N. Y 614.
As to Gregory v Atknson, 127 Fed. Rep. 183, cited and
referred to by the appellees to effect §70e, does not give jurisdiction where the defendants do not consent, see cases holding that §70e does give jurisdiction without the consent of
the defendants. Horskmzs v Sanderson, 132 Fed. Rep. 415,
416, In re Leeds Woolen Mills, 129 Fed. Rep. 922, 926, Pond
v N Y Nat. Exch. Bank, 124 Fed. Rep. 992; Lawrence v.
Lowre, 133 Fed. Rep. 995, Delta National Bank v Easterbrook, 133 Fed. Rep. 521.
The question has not, as yet, been passed upon by- this
court.
In construing a statute, a meaning must be given to each
and every part thereof, and the plait intent as expressed in
the amendment to §.70e, that suits of the character therein
enumerated may be brought in the District Court, requires a
construction which will confer such jurisdiction, and not a
construction such as is contended for by the appellees, which
will render its language meaningless.
Section 23b is a general provision and §70e is a special one.
Where there is any conflict between a general and a special

WHITNEY v. WENTAAN.
193 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

provision, the umversal rule of construction requires that the
special provision shall be considered as an exteption to the
general rule, contained in the geileral provision. Townsend v
Lit&le, 109 U. S. 504, 512; United States v Nix, 189 U. S. 199,
205.
Appellees having demurred only as to jurisdiction cannot now
bolster up their case by arguing the merits of the cause of
action as if they had demurred generally. This they cannot
,do. The certificate raises only the question of jurisdiction of
courts of the -United States as such. Schweer v Brown, 195
U. S. 171, Lucius v Cawthorn-Coleman Co., 190 U S. 149.
The merits of the case are not before this court.
Appellees confuse the New York lien 'law as to chattel
mortgages with the personal property law as to pledges and
other charges. Hangen v Hachemeiter, 114 N. Y 566,
Southard v Benner, 72 N. Y 424, Russell v Winne, 37 N. Y.
591. And the question of jurisdiction alone can be considered.
Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 5, Hennessy v Rwhardson Drug
Co., 189 U. S. 25, 33, Huntington v. Lazdley, 176 U S. 668,
679; McDonald v Smalley, 1 Pet. 620.
As to Re Economical PrintingCompany, 110 Fed. Rep. 514,
cited to effect, that there should have been an allegation in
the bill that there was a judgment creditor in existence, in,
whose right the trustee was acting, see In re Garcewich, 115
Fed. Rep. 87
The lien law of New York provides that transactions such
as are disclosed by. the appellant's bill, shall be "absolutely
void as against creditors."
Muller v. Nugent, 188 U. S. 1, 14, holds that the filing of a
petition in bankruptcy is in effect a levy of attachment and
it is settled law of the State of New York that an attaching
creditor may -attack an invalid chattel mortgage.
Other Circuit Courts of Appeals have refused to follow Re
Economwal Prnting Company, supra. See Chesapeake Co. v.
Seldner, 112 Fed. Rep. 593; Re Antiago Screen Co., 123 Fed.
Rep. 249; Re Rodgers; 125 Fed. Rep. 169; Re Pebn Plow Co,.
VoL. cxcvii-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellee, Security Warehouse Co.

198 U. S.

112 Fed. Rep. 308,. Spencer v Duplex Co., 112 Fed. Rep.
638, 643, In re Beede, 126 Fed. Rep. 853, Mueller v Bruss,
112 Wisconsin, 406, 412, and cases cited.
Hewit v Berlin Co., 194 U. S. 302, held in construing § 112
of the lien law of New York with respect to conditional sales,
that a trustee in bankruptcy has no standing to attack a
voidable transaction thereunder.
Mr Edunn B. Smith for appellee, Security Warehousing
Company, as to question of jurisdiction.
The fair presumption as to a court of limited jurisdiction is
against the jurisdiction until the contrary appears. Thomas
v Board, 195 U. S. 210; People v Spencer, 55 N. Y 1, Fife v.
Whittell, 102 Fed. Rep. 539; Pacific Railway v Los Angeles,
194 U S. 118. The history of the act shows this jurisdiction
never was -intended, that § 70e affects fraudulent conveyances
running back through the period of the State's statutes of
limitations which are a fraud on creditors though made without reference to the bankrupt act. These long past transactions are left to the state courts unless defendant consents
to the jurisdiction of a Federal court. Collier on Bankruptcy,
4th ed., 250; Gregory v Atkinson, 127 Fed. Rep. 183, Brandenberg, 369, §578.
To maintain an equity suit under § 70e, by a trustee, these
facts must be averred with the certainty and positiveness
required in equity pleadings, viz. (1) A transfer by the bankrupt;. (2) such as his creditor might have avoided, (3) that
the defendant is not a bona fide holder for value; (4) that the
proposed defendant has consented to the bringing and prosecution of the suit in the Federal court. Before a party can avail
himself of the statutory right he must show upon the record
that his is a case which comes within the provisions of the
statute. Pacific Railway v Los Angeles, 194 U. S. 118.
In this case the bill does not properly aver any one of the
necessary jurisdictional facts. It is immaterial how this failure
to state jurisdictional facts is called to the attention of the

WHITNEY v. WENMAN.
198 U. S.

Argument for Appellee, Security Warehouse Co.

court. Chase v Palmer, 23 Maine, 345, Rwhards v Lake
Shore, 124 Illinois, 501, and the presumptions are against it.
Wels. Eq. P1. 10, 126, M. & F 128, Vernon v Vernon, 2 Myl.
& Cr. 145, Clark v Dillon, 97 N. Y 373.
The transfer by the bankrupt was not one that any creditor
might have avoided. A general lien was created at common
law and sustained by statute. Brooks v Hanover Bank, 26
Fed. Rep. 302, Stallman v Kimberly, 121 N. Y 393, Yenni v..
McNamee, 45 N. Y 614. A trustee in bankruptcy can avoid
a transfer only to the extent that a judgment creditor could.
*ReN Y Economical -PintngCo., 49 C. C. A. 133, Re Kellogg,
112 Fed. Rep. 52, Hewit v Berlin, 194 U S; 302, Thompson v Farbanks, 196 U S. 526, In re Garcewich, 115 Fed.
Rep. 87
The bill does not charge that defendants were holders for
value.
It is not the defendant's consent that is made a condition
precedent to jurisdiction, but that of the person whom the
-trustee proposes to make a defendant.
A "proposed" defendant is not one sn esse, but a person
intended to be made such in futuro. 27 App. Div N. Y
110. The purpose to sue him in a bankruptcy court must be
communicated, and assented to by him, before service of the
summons; for that service makes him, eo snstants, a defendant, calling him into court to make some defense. 184 U S.
26.
Section 23 does not say simply no suit shall be brought
without the consent of the proposed defendant, it adds "or
prosecuted." Consent to. the prosecution of a suit requires
something more than merely appearing to demur. The Bardes
case went up, on a demurrer to the jurisdiction. 178 U S.
525, In re Thomson, 112 Fed. Rep. 946, Donnelly v Cordage
Co., 66 Fed. Rep. 613, St. Louis Ry. v McBride, 141 U S.
127, Louisville Traction Co. v Comsnger, 184 U S, 26, In re
Mitchis, 116 Fed. Rep. 725, In re Steuer, 104 Fed. Rep. 977,
In re Hembey-Hutchinson Pub. Co., 105 Fed. Rep. 909.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

Mr Louss F. Doyle for appellees, Wenman and others:
The bill is not framed as an application for the exercise of
the summary jurisdiction of the court of bankruptcy and it
seeks relief wholly beyond that jurisdiction. Bardes v Bank,
178 U S. 524, "Whitney v. Wenman, 96 App. Div N. Y 290;
White v Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542; Mueller v Nugent, 184
U. S. 1, Minnesota v St. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609; Morgan Co.
v Tex. Cent. Ry., 137 U S. 171, Sharpe v. Doyle, 102 U. S.
171, distinguished.
On the admitted facts it does not appear that the property
was rn custodia legzs. See Bush v. Export Co., U. S. Circuit
Ct., E. D. Tennessee, August, 1904.
Jurisdiction is not conferred by §70e. Bardes v. Bank, 178
U. S. 524, and cases cited by other counsel for appellees.
Day, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUsTIcE

This case is here upon the question of the jurisdiction of the
District Court. to entertain the action. The case in the court
below was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, the demurrer
having been sustained solely upon the ground that the bankruptcy act of July 1, 1898, as amended by the act of February 5, 1903, gave the court no jurisdiction. We are not concerned with the merits of the controversy further than the
allegations concerning the same are necessary to be considered
in determining the question of the jurisdiction of the District
Court as. a court of bankruptcy to entertain this suit. It is
sufficient to say that m our opinion the bill made a case which
presented a controversy for judicial determination as to the
right of the defendants to hold the lease and property under
the alleged security of the warehouse receipts undertaken to
be issued in the manner set forth 1A the petition. Whether it
will 'turn out upon full hearing that the lease and securities
are good is not now to be determined. The bill makes allegations which raise a justiciable controversy as to the validity

WHITNEY v. AWENMAN.
19 U. S.

Oimnion of the Court.

of the alleged lien in view of the lack of change of possession
of the goods under the circumstances set forth. The question
for this court now to determine is whether the bankruptcy
court, on the allegations made- and admitted as true by the
demurrer, had jurisdiction to determine the controversy It
is positively alleged in the bill that the supervision and control
of the goods continued in the firm of Dresser & Company, and
that the alleged doings of the Security Warehousing Company
and its agents were merely colorable and did not, in fact,
change the control over the goods, nor give any notice of the
alleged lease of the Warehousing Company, nor the lien of the
instruments thereby secured. It is further positively averred
that when the receivers were appointed upwards of $150,000
worth of goods belonging to the firm were in the possession and
under the control of the-bankrupts, and after the receivers had
taken possession of the store the goods were delivered up to the
Warehousing Company without any order-or attempt to procure
the sanction of the court to -such surrender of the property.
Under these circumstances had the -bankruptcy court jurisdiction to determine the rights of parties claiming interests
in the property?
Section 2 of the bankrupt act of 1898, among other things,
confers jurisdiction upon the District Courts of the United
States, as courts of bankruptcy, (3)to "appoint receivers or
the marshals, upon application of parties in interest, in case
the court shall find it absolutely necessary, for the preservation
of estates, to take charge of the property of bankrupts after
the filing of the petition and until it is dismissed or the trustee
is qualified;" (7) to "cause the estates of bankrupts to be
collected, -reduced to money and distributed, and determine
controversies in relation thereto, except as hereto otherwise
provided."
This section, in connection with section 23, was before this
court for construction in the case of Bardes v Hawarden Bank,
178 U, S.524, m which case it was held that section 23b of
the act. as it then stood prevented the courts of the United

OCTO3ER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U.S.

States from entertaining jurisdiction over suits brought by
trustees in bankruptcy to set aside fraudulent transfers of
money or property made by the bankrupt to third parties
before the institution of the bankruptcy proceedings, without
the consent of the defendants. In that case It was held that
the power conferred in subdivision 7 of section 2, above quoted,
was limited by the direct provisions of section 23 as to the
jurisdiction of suits brought by trustees, the effect of which
section was to compel the trustee to resort to the state courts
to set aside conveyances of the character named where an
alleged fraudulent transfer had been made by the bankrupt
before the beginning of the proceedings, unless jurisdiction in
the District Court was by consent. This case, Bardes v Bank,
did not determine the right of the District Court to entertain
jurisdiction of a proceeding having in view the adjudication
of rights in or liens upon property which came into the possession of the bankruptcy court as that of the bankrupt; the right
to proceed concerning which would seem to be broadly conferred
in the section of the bankruptcy act above quoted. At the
same term at which the Bardes case was decided, this court
determined the case of White v Schloerb, 178 U S. 542. In
that case it was held that, after an adjudication in bankruptcy, an action in replevin could not be brought in the state
court to recover property in the posesssion of and held by the
bankrupt at the time of the adjudication, and in the hands
of the referee in bankruptcy when the action was begun, and
that the District Court of the United States, 'sitting in bankruptcy, had jurisdiction by summary process to compel the
return of the property seized. In the case of Bryan v Bernhesmer, 181 U S. 188, it appeared that the bankrupt had made
a general assignment for-the.benefit of his creditors nine days
before the filing of his petition in bankruptcy, and the assignee
sold the property after the bankruptcy proceedings had been
begun, after the adjudication in bankruptcy, but before the
appointment of a trustee. Upon petition of creditors the
District Court ordered that the marshal take possession, and

WHITNEY v. WENMIAN.
198 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

the purchaser appear within ten days and propound his claim
to the property, or, failing so to do, be declared to have no
right in it. The purchaser appeared and set up that he
bought the property in good faith from the assignee, and
prayed the process of the court that the creditors might be
remitted to their claim against the assignee for the price, or
that same be ordered to be paid into court by the assignee and
paid over to the purchaser who was willing to rescind the
purchase upon receiving his money. It was held that the purchaser had no title to the bankrupt's estate, and that the
equities between him and the creditors should be- determined
by the District Court, bringing m the assignee if necessary
In that case Mr. Justice Gray, who also delivered the opinion
in the Bardes case,. said.
"The bankrupt act of 1898, § 2, invests the courts of baikruptcy 'with such jurisdiction, at law and in equity, as to
enable them to exercise original jurisdiction in bankruptcy
proceedings, in vacation in chambers, and during their respective terms', to make adjudications of bankruptcy; and,
among other things, '(3) appoint receivers or the marshals,
upon the application of parties in interest, in case the courts
shall find it absolutely necessary for the preservation of estates
to take charge of the property of bankrupts after the filing.of
the petition and until it is dismissed or the trustee is qualified;'
'(6) bring m and.substituie additional persons' or parties in
proceedings in bankruptcy when necessary for the complete
determination of a matter in controversy; (7) cause the estates
of bankrupts to be collected, reduced to money and distributed,
and determine controversies in relation thereto, except as
herein otherwise provided.' The exception refers to the provision of section 23, by virtue of which, as.adjudged at the last
term of this court, the District Court can, by the proposed defendant's consent, but not otherwise, entertain jurisdiction
over suits brought by trustees in bankruptcy against third
persons to recover property -fraudulently conveyed by the
bankrupt to them before the. institution of proceedings in bank-

OCTOBER TERMT., 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

ruptcy Bardes v Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524, Mitchell
v McClure, 178 U S. 539; Hicks. v Knost, 178 U. S. 541."
This case (Bryan v Bernhesmer) would seem to limit the
effect of the decision in the Bardes case to suits against third
persons oi-account of transfers made before the bankruptcy,
and to recognize the right of the bankruptcy court to adjudicate upon rights in property in the possession of the court belonging to the bankrupt. In the case of Mueller v Nugent,
184 U S. 1, this court recognized the power of the bankruptcy
court to compel the surrender of money or other assets of the
bankrupt in his possession or that of some one for hun. In that
case the decisions in Bardes v Hawarden Bank, White v.
Schloerb and Bryan v Bernhenmer were reviewed by the
Chief Justice, who delivered the opinion of the court; and it
was held that the filing of a petition m bankruptcy, is a caveat
to all the world, and in effect an attachment and injunction,
and that on adjudication title to the bankrupt's estate became
vested in the trustee with actual or constructive possession,
and placed in the custody of the bankruptcy court.
We think the result of these cases is, in view of the broad
powers conferred in section 2 of the, bankrupt act, authorizing
the bankruptcy court to cause the estate of the bankrupt to
be collected, reduced to money and distributed, and to determine controversies in relation thereto, and bring in and substitute additional parties when necessary for the complete
determination of a matter in controversy, that.when the property has become subject to the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy
court as that of the bankrupt, whether held by him or for hun,
jursdictibn exists to determine controversies in relation to the
disposition of the same and the extent and character of liens
thereon or rights therein. This conclusion accords with a
number of well-considered cases in the Federal courts. In
re Whitener, 105 Fed. Rep. 180; In re Antiago Screen Door
Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 249; In re Kellogg, 121 Fed. Rep. 333. In
the case of First National Bank v The Chicago Title & Trust
Company, decided May 8 of thiis term, ante, p. 280, in holding

WHITN2EY v. WENMAN.
198 U. S.

553.

Opinion of the Court.

that the jurisdiction of the District Court did not obtain, it
was pointed out that the court had found that it was not in
possession of the property Nor can we perceive that it makes
any difference that the jurisdiction is not sought to be asserted
in a summary proceeding, but resort is had to an action in the
nature of a plenary suit, wherein the parties can be fully heard
after the due course of equitable procedure.
It is insisted that in the present case the property was
voluntarily turned over by the receiver, and thereby the jurisdiction-of the District Court, upon the ground herein stated,
is defehted, as the property is no longer in the possession or
subject to the control of the court. But the receiver had no
power or authority under the allegations of this bill to turn
over the property He was appointed a temporary custodian,
and it-was his duty -to hold possession of the property until
the -termination of the proceedings or the appointment of a
trustee for the bankrupt. The circumstances- alleged, in this
bill tend to show that the transfer of the property was collusive,
and certainly if the, allegations be true, it was made without
authority of the court.. The court had possession of the
property and jurisdiction to hear and determine the interests
of those claiming a lien therein or ownership thereof. We do
not think this jurisdiction can be ousted by a surrender of the
property by the receiver, without authority of the court.
Whether the rights of the claimants to the property could be
litigated by summary proceedings, we need not determ'ne.
What we hold is that under the allegations of this bill the
District Court had the right in a proceeding in the natuie of
a plenary action, in which the parties *vere duly served and \
brought into court, to determine their rights, and to grant
full relief in the premises if the allegations of the bill shall- be
sustained. This view renders it unnecessary to consider the
effect of the amendments of the bankruptcy act, passed
February 5, 1903, broadening the power of the bankruptcy
courts to entertain suits by trustees to set aside certain conveyqnces made by the bankrupt.
Decree reversed.

