HARDING v. HARDING.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

merce to which they apply, simply because it Aq deemed they
are unwise or unjust. As pointed out in Olsen v Smith, an
objection based on the assumed injustice of a pilotage regulation does not involve the power to make the regulation. Objections of this character, therefore, if they be meritorious,
but concern the power of Congress to exercise the ultimate
authority vested in it on the subject of pilotage.
3d. "The pilot law violates section 4236 of the Revised
Statutes, which provides: 'The master of any vessel coming
into or going out of any port situate upon waters which are
the boundary between two States, may employ any pilot duly
licensed or authorized by the law of either of the States bounded
on such waters, to pilot the vessel to or from such port.' "
It is said that whilst it may be difficult to say that the waters
of the Chesapeake Bay between the capes- constitute a boundary, still it is possible to so conclude. We observe concerning
this contention that it does not appear to have been raised
in the courts below It is accompanied with no suggestion that
the State of Maryland has ever attempted to regulate pilotage
between the capes of Virginia, to which the Virginia statute
relates, or that any Maryland pilot offered his services. The
proposition, therefore, rests upon a series of mere conjectures,
which we cannot be called upon to investigate or decide.
Judgment affirmed.

HARDING v. H-ARDING.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GALIFORNIA.
No. 2.

Argued April 20,1905.-Declded Way 15,1905.

Pursuant to the statutes of Illinois, a wife living apart from her husband,
both being citizens of Illinois, sued for separate maintenance alleging that
she was so living on account of the husband's cruelty and adultery and
without any fault on her part. The suit was contested, and, after much
evidence had been taken, the husband filed a paper admitting that the

evidence sustained the wife's contention, and consenting to a decree pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Frror.

198 U. S.

viding for separation and support on certain terms; and the wife filed
a paper accepting the terms offered by the husband if the decree found
that her living apart from" her husband was without fault on her part.
Such a decree was entered. Subsequently the husband removed to Caliz
forma and commenced a suit for divorce on the ground of desertion.
The wife contested and pleaded the Illinois judgment as an estoppel,
but the California court declined to recognize it on the ground that the
issues were not the same, and also because it was entered on consent.
The wife then defended on the merits and judgment wai entered.m favor
of the husband.- Reversed on writ of error and held that;
Under the circumstances the wife did not waive her right to assert the
estoppel of the judgment by defending on the merits.
The issues involved in the Illinois case and the California case were practically the same and under the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution the Cliforma court should have held that the Illinois judgment
was an estopel against the assertion of the husband that the wife's
living apart from him was through any fault on her part or amounted
to desertion.
As under the Illinois statutes the judgment entered in favor of the wife
was necessarily based on a judicial'finding that her living apart was not
through her fault the papers filed were to be regarded as consents that
the testimony be construed as sustaining the wife's contention and not
as mere consents for entry of judgment.
As a judgment in Illinois entered on consent has the same force as a judgment entered rn znvitum, and is entitled to similar faith and credit in
the courts of another State.
THE

facts are stated m the opinion.

Mr. Pliny B. Smith, vith whom Mr John S. Miller was
on the brief, for,plamtiff in errorThis court has jurisdiction to review the ruling of the Supreme Court of COliformia upon this writ of error. Andrews
v Andrews, 188 U S. 14, Atherton v Atherton, 181 U S. 155;
Bell v Bell, 181 U S. 175, Streitwolf v Streitwolf, 181 U. S.
179; Lynde v Lynde, 181 U S. 183, Water Co. v Railroad Co.,
172 U S. 475, Bank v Stevens, 169 U S. 432; Huntington v
Attrill, 146. U. S. 657, Gt. W Tel. Co. v Purdy, 162 U. S. 329.
This case comes within the second clause of. § 709, because
there is drawn in question the validity of an authority exercised by the Supreme Court of California, on the ground of its
being repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United
States. It makes no difference by what department of the

HARDING v. HARDING.
199 U. S.

Argument for Plamtiff m Error.

State the authority was exercised the validity of which is called
in question. Railroad Co. v. Chwago, 166 U S.226,233, 234.
If the decision of the Federal question was necessarily involved in the state court, and the case could not have been
determined without deciding such question, this is sufficient.
Cases cited supra and Chapman v Goodnoo, 123 U. S. 540.
It is sufficient that it appears from the record that such rights
were specially set up in such manner as to bring it to the attention of that court, Green Bay &c. Co. v Patent Paper Co.,
172 U S. 58, 67, or that it was the necessary effect of the
judgment. Roby v Colehorn, 146 U. S. 153. Streitwol] v.
Streitwolf, 181 U S. 179; Lynde v Lynde, 181 U S. 183.
Here the Federal question was in fact the only question
decided by the Supreme Court of California. And see also
Chwago L. I. Co. v Needles, 113 U S.574, Eureka Lake v
Yuba County, 116' U. S. 410; Arrowsmith v Harmonsng, 118
U S.195, Kaukauna County v Green Bay &c. Co., 142 U S.
257, 271, Railroad Co. v Adams, 180 U. S.28, Railroad Co.
v Osborn, 193 U S. 17, 28, Laing v Rigney, 160 U S.531.

The opinion of the state court may be examined for the purpose of determining whether the Federal question was presented and decided. Phil. Fire Assn. v New York, 119 U. 9.
110, 116.
Under the Fourteenth Amendment, proceedings in a court
of justice to determine the personal rights, and obligations of
parties over whom that court has no jurisdiction do not constitute due process. Pennoyer v Neff, 95 U S.714, 733.
Jurisdiction of the subject matter in actions of divorce depends upon domicil, and without such domicil there was no
,.uthority to decree a divorce. Cases cited supra.
A point which was actually and directly in issue in a former
suit, and was there judicially passed upon and determined by
a domestic court of competent jurisdiction, can not be again
drawn into question in any future action between the same
parties or their privies, whether the causes of action in the
two suits be identical or different. Black on Judges, § 504;

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

198 U. S.

Stockton v Ford, 18 How 414, Hopkins v Lee, 6 Wheat. 109;
Smith v Kernochan, 7 How 198, Young v Black, 7 Cranch,
565, Ganes v Miller, 111 U S. 395- Eldred v Bank, 17 Wall.
575, Marne Ins. Co. v Young, 1 Cranch, 332; Thompson v.
Roberts, 24 How 233, Goodrsch v Chwsago, 5 Wall. 566, Foster
v The Rwhard Busteed, 100 Massachusetts, 412.
A final decree m chancery is as conclusive as a judgment
at law Shrver v Lynn, 2 How 43, Brdge Co. v Stewart,
3 'How 413, Penntngton v Gibson, 16 How 65, Natwns v
Johnson, 24 How 195, Bryan v Bennett, 113 U S. 179.
The issues m the California case and m the Illinois case were
identical, and they were treated as identical by the California
court. The fact that the two actions were different m form
makes no difference as respects the faith and credit clause of
the Constitution.
The California court was bound by the adjudication by the
Illinois court, and, m disregarding the Illinois decree the
California court deprived plaintiff m error of a right under the
Federal Constitution and statutes.. Const. U. S., Art. IV,
.§ 1, Rev Stat. § 905.
The clause-referred to applies to decrees of divorce, Atherton v Atherton, 181 U S. 155, and means that the court of a
State must allow to a judgment of a sister State the same
effect that it has in the State where rendered. Mills v Duryee,
7 Cranch, 481, Renaud v Abbott, 116 U. S. 277, Hilton v.
Guyot, 159 U. S. 113, 181.
While this court, on writ of error to the Supreme Court of
a State, will not take judicial notice of the law of another
State, yet where the court, whose decision is under review,
does take judicial notice of the law of another State, this court
will do the same. Renaud v Abbott, 116 U S. 277, Hanley
v Donoghue, 116 U S. 1.
The Illinois judgment was not a consent decree. The judgment speaks for itself. Campbell v. Wilson, 195 Illinois, 284,
Armstrong v Cooper, 11 Illinois, 540.
Evren if the decree were a consent decree it would have the

HARDING v. HARDING.
198 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

same binding effect as though it were a decree rn rnvitum.
Knoblock v Mueller, 123 Illinois, 554, 565, O'Connell v Rail
way Co., 184 Illinois. 308, 325, Lagerqu?.st v Williams, 74
Ill. App. 17
A judgment upon a cognovit concludes the parties.
A judgment entered, where upon trial a party waives proof
of and formally admits a fact, is conclusive. A judgment
rendered upon an admission of fact or by consent, is conclusive
on the parties to the same extent as though rendered upon a.
contest. Black on Judgments, §705, Railway Co. v United
States, 113 U. S. 261, Burgess v Seligman, 107 U S. 20; Thomson v Wooster, 114'U S. 104, Bank v Higg-nbottom, 9 Pet.
48, United States v Parker,120 U S. 89. The rule also applies
to judgments by default. Harshman v Knox Co., 122 U S.
306. Also to judgment on demurrer. Gould v RailroadCo.,
91 U. S. 526, Bissell v Sprmngvalley, 124 U S. 225.
The Supreme Court of California misconceived the Illinois
decisions and rule.. Wadhams v Gay, 73 Illinois, 415,. and
Farwell v Gt. West. Tel. Co., 161 Illinois, 522, distinguished.
The rule m California is, that in the absence of proof, the
courts of California will presume that law of another State
to be the same as the law of California. Shumway v Leskey,
67 California, 458. The presumption is even extended to the
statute law of California. Cavallaro v Railroad Co., 110
California, S48. Applying the rule of California, a judgment
by stipulation .is conclusive as .to all matters within the issue.
McCreery v Fuller, 63 California, 30; Partdge v Shepard,
71 California, 470.
The State of California never was the matrimonial domicil
of the parties, and, therefore, the courts of Califorma had no
jurisdiction of their matrimonial status, and the decree of the
California court was consequently for this reason also, erroneous.
Mrs, Harding had always, since her marriage, lived in
Illinois. California had never been the mitrimonial domicil
of the parties and it is to be presumed her residence, the status
VOL. cxovI-21

OCTOBER TERM7 1904.
Argument for Defendant m Error.

198 U. S.

and the matrimonial domicil remained in Illinois. Cal. Civ.
Code Proc. § 1693, par. 32.
A suit for a divorce is a proceeding 7n rem. The status of
the parties is the res. In a proceeding sn rem the jurisdiction
of the court over the res must affirmatively appear.
The matrimonial status-the res-was created and established in Illinois, it not appearing- that this status had ever
been removed to California, the California courts had no jurisdiction of the suit. In a proceeding sn rem the court will not
presume that the res existed within the jurisdiction of the
court, but it must be averred and proved.
This court has not, as yet, directly passed upon the points
made in this division of the brief, but in several cases it has
especially reserved the question. Bell v Bell, 181 U.. S. 175;
Streitwolf v Streitwolf, 181 U S. 179; Andrews v Andrews, 188
U. S. 14, 40.
Mr William H. Barnum for defendant in errorThe Illinois decree and the decree as modified was not final,
irrevocable and immutable, but the allowances thereby made
were subject to alteration, reduction and even extinguishment. Audubon v Shufeldt, 181 U. S. 575, Welty v. Welty,
195 Illinois, 345, Cutler v Cutler, 88 Ill. App. 464.
It is doubtful whether any decree so alterable, revocable,
interlocutory or non-final in. its nature can be in any case
successfully pleaded as a bar or estoppel.
Neither-the decree, the modified decree, nor the stipulation,
nor all combined, created a bar or estoppel against the prosecution of the California divorce suit, nor against proving therein
the truth of the charge of willful desertion, nor against proving
any fact whatever essential or material to the establishment
of said charge.
The stipulation to the effect that she was livmg-apart without her fault is to be treated not as a statement made because
it was true, or from any conviction of its truth, but only as a
convenient assumption for the purpose in hand, the ending

HARDING v. HARDING.
198 U. S.

Argument for Defendant m Error

of litigation and adjustment of family differences; hence
neither the stipulation nor decree based on it can be held as
an estoppel. Greenleaf, Ev § 204, Successon of Harrm, 39
La. Ann. 443.
The decree, so entered, was not a judicial determination,
but absolutely void, and not entitled to respect in any other
tribunal, as an estoppel or otherwise. Windsor v McVezgh,
93 U. S. 274, Gay v .Parport,106 U. S. 679.
The issues in the two cases were not identical, hence there
was no estoppel. Wahle v Wahle, 71 Illinois, 513, Umlaul
vi Umlau, 117 Illinois, 584, Freeman on Judgments, § 258,
Burlen v Shannon, 3 Gray, 387, Sawyer v Woodbury, 7 Gray,
502; Megerle v Ashe, 33 Califorma, 74, 84, Howe v Lockwood, 17 N. Y Supp. 817, Pearce v Frantum, 16 La. Ann.
414.
Mr. Harding, while entitled if he chose to make the wife's
willful desertion after it had continued tWo years a distinct
issue m the maintenance case by filing an answer and prosecu,mg a, cross bill distinctly and directly making it such an issue
and praying for a divorce on that ground, was not obliged to
do so; but might confine his defense wholly to the charge made
by his wife, without thereby losing or surrenaering his reserved
right to ask for a divorce on the ground of willful desertion
or any other statutory ground. Cromwell v Sac County, 94
U. S. 351, 371, Watts v Watts, 160 Massachusetts,. 464.
Further, there was no identity of the question raised under
the Illinois statute iii the Illinois court-even if that question
had been litigated and judicially determined-with the question raised by the pleadings mdivorce case. RussOl v Place,
94 U. S. 606, Beiono v Ventura Lumber Co., 129 California,
236.
To constitute estoppel by matter of record there must be
entire identity of the issue decided and the issue to which the
estoppel is sought to be applied, and for additional illustration
of the rule, see Freeman v Barnum, 131 California, 386,
McDonald v B. R. &c. M. Co., 15 California, 145, Williams

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

v Williams, 63 Wisconsin, 58, Aspen v Parker,,2 Burr.
666.

Further the estoppel fails because the finding m the present
case does not relate to the same time as the finding in the
former case, and hence the estoppel lacks the identity required. King v Chase, 15 N. H. 16, Coke upon Littleton,
L. 3, c. 12, § 567, Bigelow on Estoppel, 3d ed., 578, and p. 77,
People v Frank, 28 California, 507, Brown v Mayer, 66 N. Y
385, Blair v Bartlett, 75 N. Y 150; Nemetty v Moylin, 100
N. Y 562; Orr v Mercer County Ind. Co., 114 Pa. St. 367
Findings outside the issues have no effect as to estoppel.
Lillis v Erie Ditch Co., 95 California, 858, Russell v Place,
94 U S. 606.
Only upon issues upon which judgment depends are parties
estopped. 1 Greenleaf, § 528, McDonald v Black Co., 15
California, 145, Gray v Dougherty, 25 California, 272; Bozquit
v Crane, 51 California, 505, Sawyer v Boyle, 21 Texas, 28,
Lentz v Williams, 17 Pa. St. 412, Lews v Nelson, 67 Pa. St.
153, Ford v Ford's Adm., 68 Alabama, 41, Car v Buehler,
120 Pa. St. 341, Williams v Williams, 63 Wisconsin, 58,
People v Johnson, 38 N Y 63, 2 Smith's L. Cas., 10th ed.,
2013, Murdock v Memphis, 20 Wall. 590.
MR. JUsTIcE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The'law of Illinois (Laws of Illinois, 1877, p. 115) provided
as follows:
"That married women who, without their fault, now live
or hereafter may live, separate and apart from their husbands,
may have their remedy inequity in their own names, respectively, against their said husbands for a reasonable support and
maintenance while they so live separate or have so lived
separately and apart, and in determining the amount to be
allowed the court shall have reference to the condition of the
parties m life, and the circumstances of the respective cases;
and the court may grant allowance to enable the wife to
prosecute her suit, as in cases of divorce."

HARDING- v. HARDING.
198 U. S.

Oplnon of the Court.

On February 3, 1890, Adelaide M. Harding filed her bill in
the Circuit Court of the county of Cook against her husband,
George F Harding.
It was alleged that the parties were residents of the city of
Chicago. In substance, in the bill and an amendment, it was
charged that, without her fault and in consequence of the
cruel treatment of her husband and of his adultery, the plaintiff had bee i obliged to live apart from him. It was prayed
that the court decree that she was so living apart without her
fault, that it would award her the custody-of certain of the
children of the marriage, and that the defendant be decreed
to ptovide for the separate maintenance of the complainant
and the support of the children. The answer and an amendment thereto admitted the marriage, the birth of the children
and the residence .inChicago, denied the charges of cruelty
and other misconduct, and averred that the -complainant was
living apart solely through her own fault, and that she had
refused to return after repeated requests, which were reiterated in the answer.
We shall hereafter, as far as possible, refer to the parties
to that litigation, who are the parties to this suit, as the wife
and the husband, respectively
The court, by an interlocutory order, fixed a sum to be paid
by the husband for the fees of the solicitors of the wife, for
the maintenance of the wife during the pendency of the cause,
and for the support of the minor children.
The case was put.at issue and much testimony was taken.
With this testimony extant and nearly three years after the
commencement of the suit, on January 3, 1893, a document
was filed in the papers of the cause signed by the husband and
by his solicitor. In substance the paper recited that at the
time of the commencement of the suit the wife had in her
hands' a considerable amount of property and money belongmg to the husband which--Jas applicable to her maintenance,
and that when this sum was expended the husband would
feel it his duty to furnish further money to support the wife,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

lu8 U. S.

whatever might be the result of the cavse. That the husband
was confident of making a successful defense to the suit, but
that it seemed to him it was best for the sake of peace and to
avoid scandal to put an end to the litigation by consenting to
a decree in favor of the wife for a separate maintenance, the
paper further stating.
"Hence, I give my consent that a decree for separate maintenance shall be entered in favor of the pliintiff without finding or trial of the issue in this case: That this consent is not
collusive is sufficiently shown by the length and character of
the litigation. I further offer and stand ready to make such
other or further or different stipulation by an amendment of
the pleadings or otherwise, as may, in the opinion of your
honor, be required to make it unnecessary for the court to
hear and decide upon the issues in evidence in this case after
a long and expensive hearing. To this end I declare my,
willingness to stipulate and I do hereby stipulate that the
plaintiff, at the time of the commencement of this suit, was
living and ever since has been living separate and apart from
her husband without her fault, and may take a decree with
my consent for such sum as may be reasonable and just for
her separate maintenance. This is the same offer which I
have made by way of -an attempt at compromise ever since
the commencement of this suit, in which effort at compromise
I have not hesitated to offer double the amount that in my
opinion should be allowed for her separate maintenance by
the court."
The wife, on January 17, 1893, filed a counter statement.
She in substance declared that she had no previous knowledge
of the intention of her husband to file the paper which he had
submitted to the court; that she had always been confident
of the justice of her cause and of maintaining the same, and
that the testimony then taken in the cause gave her greatcertainty of the establishment of her rights; that she had
always been willing to adjust the amount to be allowed for
her separate maintenance, provided there was a "finding and

HARDING v. HARDING.
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

decree of this court thereon that she was, at the time of the
filing of the bill herein, living separate and apart from the
defendant without fault on her part and has been so living
ever since." ,The statement then referred to certain negotiations which had.been pending between the husband and wife
on the subject of the amount of separate maintenance to be
allowed, enumerated previous offers made by the husband on
this subject, which she had been unwilling to accept, because
the husband had insisted on either the dismissal of her suit, a
decree in his favor or an agreement which would not preclude
him from suing for a divorce for desertion arising from her
having separated from him. It was then stated, in substance,
that, as interpreted by th wife, the paper filed by the husband
waived the conditions which he had previously insisted upon
and assented to a decree finding that the separation was without her fault, and she was willing for the sake of preventing
further scandal, to accept the amount previously offered by
the husband, although deeming the sum -inadequate to her
condition of life, "upon the decree finding that complainant
was living separate and apart from defendant without fault
on her part, being now promptly entered such as the said
voluntary stipulation of the defendant justifies." No action
appears to have been taken by the court upon these two papers
except in so far as may be inferred from the statements which
follow
In May, 1893, the court entered an order referring the cause
to a master to take further evidence as to the amount of
alimony, etc., to be awarded, "and upon other issues herein
than the question as to whether complainant at the time of
the commencement of this suit was, and since that time has
been and is, living separate and apart from her husband, the
defendant, without her fault, said defendant having admitted
upon the record herein, and now admitting in open court, that
the complainant was living eparate and apart from hn without fault on her part."
Nearly three years after the matter had been thus referred

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

198 U. a.

to the master the order of reference was amended nunc pro
tune, as of the date of -the previous order, by substituting for
the words "and now admitting in open court" the words "as
by his written stipulation filed herein on January 3, 1893, and
for the purpose of this trial only" A few months thereafter
,the master filed his report. Therein he stated his conclusions
deduced from the evidence taken prior to 1894 on the subject
of the right of the wife to-her separate maintenance, andfound
as a matter of fact that her right was established by the proof.
He also found that the wife was entitled to a stated sum for
her separate maintenance and an additional sum for the support of the children. Exceptions were filed to the report,
which were heard by the court, and a final decree was rendered on July 26, 1897 It was recited, among other things,
in this decree that the court, 'doth find that the said complainant, at the time of the commencement of this suit, was
living, and ever since that time has lived, and is now living,
separate and apart from her husband, the said defendant.,
without her fault, and that the equities of this cause are with
the complainant." The decree awarded to the wife sums for
her separate maintenafice and for the support of the children
up to the- time of their becoming of age, and a further sum for
the fees of the solicitors of the wife and bther expenses of the
litigation. The decree made no reference to the admission
contained in the paper filed by the husband, nor was any
statement made which limited the effect of the decree as a
final adjudication of-the rights of the parties. An exception,
on behalf of the husband, was taken to each and every finding
of the decree, and sixty days were allowed to prepare a certificate of evidence.
It would seem from the certificate of evidence, which was
made several months afterwards, that on the settlement of
the decree a controversy arose as to its terms, the wife requesting the court to state in the decree that all the charges
made in the complaint and the amended complaint as to
cruelty, adultery, etc., had been established by the proof; the

HARDING t,. HARDING.
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

husband insisting, to the contrary, that the charges had not
been proven, and further asserting that it was not necessary
to so find because of his admission of record. The court said
that it did not pass upon the question as to whether all the
charges made in the complaint were true, because it regarded
it as unnecessary "in view of the said paper of the defendant
filed hereto January 3, 1893."
The husband prosecuted an appeal to the Appellate Court
of Illinois for the First District. But before this appeal wasperfected, and on August 31, 1897, he commenced in the
Superior Court of San Diego, California, this suit against his
wife for divorce. The marriage in 1855 and the residence in
Chicago were alleged, butit was averred that ever since May 15,
1895, the plaintiff had been a resident of the State of California.
The sole ground alleged. for.granting the divorce was willful
desertion by the wife in the month of February, 1890. The
answer of the wife denied" that the husband was a resident of
California, and in a separate paragraph there was specially
pleaded the proceedings and the decree of the Illinois court
and the admission of the husband on the record therein as to
the separation being without the fault of the wife, all of which
it was asserted established by the thing adjudged that her
living apart was justified and did not constitute desertion.
In the meanwhile, before the trial of the cause, the appeal
prosecuted in the Illinois case by the husband was- decided
against him in the Appellate Court, and he took an appeal to
the Supreme Court of Illinois, in which court the judgment
was.affirmed, with a modification as to the amount of the allowance for alimony, and the trial court changed the amount of
its decree accordingly The wife then by an amended answer
again set ap the decree in Illinois as amended as res yudicata.
On the trial the wife introduced in evidence a certified copy
of the record of the Illinois suit. The husband introducel,
over the wife's objection and exception, a portion -of the
certificate of evidence, which had been prepared for the pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the.Court.

198 U. S.

pose of the appeal from the final decree in Illinois-as originally
entered. Te court made findings of fact to the effect that the
parties had been married m Illinois, that the husband was a
bona fide resident of California, and that on the first day of.
Frbruary, 1890, the wife had deserted her husband without
just cause. As a conclusion of law it was deduced that the
husband was entitled to a divorce, but that t~le. court was
without power in any way to limit oraffect tie decree for
separate maintenance rendered by the Illinois. bourt. After
the refusal of a new trial the wife appealed to the Supreme
Court of California, and that court affirmed the decree. 140
California, 690.
The question is, Did the Supreme Court of Califorma fail to
give due faith and credit to the decree for separate maintenance rendered in favor of the wife in Illinois, which was
pleaded by the wife as res judicata.
It is suggested 'm argument that that question cannot be
passed upon, as the wife, besides pleading and relying upon
the Illinois decree, defended on 'the merits, and by so doing
waived the benefits of the alleged estoppel arising from, the
Illinois decree. ' The want of merit in the contention is at once
demonstrated by the statement that the Supreme Court of
'the State of California, in its opinion in the cause, treated the
question of estoppel by the Illinois judgment as being open,
and ac ually determined it.
The Supreme Court of California decided that the tilinois
decree was not conclusive in California as to the question of
desertion, for the f~llowmg reasons: That decree, the court
held, was a consent decree, and being of that character it was
not a bar in the State of Illinois. As it was held-that the
Illinois decree was o~ly entitled in California, under the due
faith afid credit clause, to the effect which it would have in
Illinois, it was hence decided that the Illinois decree did not
constitute an estoppel in the courts of California. But we are
of opiflion that the premise upon which the Supreme Court of
Califorpia proceeded was a mistaken one and its conclusion

HARDING v. RARDING.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Courp.

based thereon was erroneous, even if the correctness of the
premise be conceded for the sake of the argument.
The cpnclusion of the Supreme Couit of Califorma,,that the
Illinois decree was solely based on the ronsent of the parties,
and was consequently not the result of the action of the.court,
was based on the following: 1. The paper filed by the husband
on January 3, 1893. 2. The recital in the amended order of
reference that the admission that the *vife was without fault
had been made for the purpose of the trial only. 3. The
statement of the trial judge, made in the certificate of evidence, that in view of the admission on the record he had not
found it necessary to pass upon all the charges made in the
complaint.
But the conclusion drawn by the court from these'matters
assumed that a decree for separate maintenance under the
Illinois statute could have been a mere matter 6f consent, and
did not require the ascertamment by the court of the facts made
essential by the statute to justify such a decree. That this
was a mistaken conception of the Illinois-law has, been clearly
pointed out by the Supreme Court of that State. In Johnson
v Johnson, 125 Illinois, 510, an appeal from a decree for
separate maintenance, the court said (p. 514)
"ITo maintain -her bill, it was necessary for the complainant
to show, not only that she had good cause for living separate
and apart from her husband, but also that such living apart
was without fault on her part. At common law, the husband
was liable, in an action at.law at the suit of any person furnishing to the wife necessaries suitable to her condition in life,
if the wife was residing apart from him because of his willful
and improper treatment of her, or by his consent. 2 Kent's
Com. 146, Evans v Fisher,5. Gilman, 571. No right of action
existed in the wife,. courts of equity refusing to take.cognizance
at her suit, and enforce the legal obligation of the husband to
maintain her. 2 Story, Eq. Jur. § 1422. The statute was
passed to remedy this defect in the law, and gave the right to
the wife to minamtau her bill for separate maintenance, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

restricted the right to cases where the living separate and
apart from the husband was Without her fault. The 'fault'
here meant and contemplated is a voluntary consenting to the
separation, or such failure of duty or misconduct on her part
as 'materially contributes to a disruption of the marital relation.' If she leave the husband voluntarily, or by consent,
or if her misconduct has materially induced the course of action
on the part of the husband upon which she relies as justifying
the separation, it is not without her fault, within the meaning
of the law No encouragement can be gw?,en to the livng apart
of husband and wife. The law and good of society alike forbd
it. But a wife who is not herself in fault is not bound to live
and cohabit with her husband if his conduct is such as to
directly endanger her .life, person or health, nor-where the
husband pursues a perqistent, unjustifiable, and wrongful course
of conduct towards her, which will necessarily and inevitably
render her lifd'miserable, and living as his wife unendurable.
Incompatibility of disposition, occasional ebullitions of passion, trivial -difficulties, or slight moral obliquities, will not
justify separation. If the husband voluntarily does that
which compels the wife to leave him, or 3ustifies her in so doing,
the inference may be justly drawn that he intended to produce
that result, on the familiar principle that sane -men usually
mean to produce those results which naturally and legitimately
flow from their actions. And if he so intended, her leaving
him would, in the case put, be desertion on his part, and not
by the wife."
In the second place, even if the rule of public policy enunciated by the Supreme Court of Illinois be put out of -view,
the assumption that the Illinois decree was a consent decree,
merely registering an agreement of the parties, disregards
the form of that decree, and cannot be indulged in without
failing to give effect to the very face of the decree, which adjudged that the separation of the wife. from the husband was
without her fault. This was an express finding by the court,
and one whlch the law required to be j'udiclally made.

HARDING v. HARDING.
198 U. S.

Opuuon of the Court.

In the third place, if it be conceded that the express terms
of the decree could be overcome by considering matters contamed in the record, but outside of the decree, the conclusion
drawn by the Supreme Court of California from the consideration, of such matters was, we think, a mistaken one. As we
have said in stating the facts, after the bringing of the suit
for. separate maintenance, in which charges of the gravest
character were made against the husband as to cruelty, adultery, etc., much testimony had been taken with regard to the
charges. And it was in this state of the case that the ex parte
stipulation of the husband was filed, in which he admitted
that the wife was living separate and apart from him without
her fault. The declaration in the statement that it was not
collusively made eliminates the conception that the admission
was made regardless of its truth and independently of the facts
shown by the testimony which had theretofore been- taken in
the cause. When it is observed that shortly following the
filing of this paper the statement of the wife was filed accepting
her husband's admission as conceding that the proof established
that the separation was not caused by her fault, and stating
that she had refused the solicitation of the husband to discontinue the cause and accept an allowance to be made by him
for her separate maintenance upon an agreement that so doing
should not prejudice him if he sued for a divorce on the ground
of desertion, it becomes impossible to hold that the decree was
.a mere registering of an agreement between the parties, and
not the judicial action of the court. Certainly, when the papers
filed by the husband and wife are considered, there is no room
for the contention that a judicial finding was not made. True,
the paper filed by the husband expressed his desire to avoid
such a finding, but, instead of consenting to his proposition,
the paper filed by the wife insisted that she was entitled to the
finding, that she had always refused to waive it, and that she
demanded it. The court obviously considered that the wife
was entitled to the right which she thus claimed, since it made
the very finding upon which the wife insisted, and which the

oMrOBE

TERM, 1904.

Opmion of the Court.

198 U. S.

paper filed by the husband sought to avold, and the conduct
of the husband, in excepting to the finding as made by the
court, demonstrates that heregarded it as a judicial determination of the issue of absence of fault on the part of the wife.
And the modified order of reference gives rise but to the inference that in view of the admission of the husband it was not
deemed necessary, for the purpose of the tmai, to take further
testimony in respect to the conceded fact, or for the master to
report in detail concerning the evidence as to the misconduct
of the husband *hich led- to the separation. This also explains the statement of the judge, made m the certificate of
evidence, as to, the controversy regarding the terms of the
decree,:and his refusal to find that all the charges made in the
bill had been proven. This view of the matters relied upon
by the California court was the one expressly adopted by both
the Appellate Court and by the Supreme Court of Illinois in
deciding the appeal.°taken by the husband. On that appeal,
as we have said, he complained of the action of the court,
including the finding that .the wife was living separate without fault on her part. 79 Ill. App. 590; 180 Illinois, 481.
Both of the Illinois courts, in considering -the objection that
the trial court was without power to iake a finding concerning
the absence of fault on the part of the wife because of the
consent manifested by the paper filed by the husband, treated
that paper not as a mere consent to a decree in relation to that
subject, but as an admission concerning the state of the proof
m the record, which, whilst it rendered-it unnecessary for *the
court to analyze the proof, did not deprive it of the power to
make a judidial finding of the fact. It is to be observed also
that both courts held that on- the issue as to the custody of the
minor children and the sum to be allowed for separate maintenance, the inquiry into the conduct of the-husband was
relevant and required an analysis of the testimony, an analysis
which embraced necessarily those elements of proof which
entered into'the question of the causes of the separation..
But if it be considered that in any aspect the decree under

HARDING v. HARDING.
193 U. S.

Opunon of the Court.

review was a -consent decree, we are of opinion that the cases
relied upon by the Supreme Court of California, Wadhams v
Gay,. 73 Illinois, 417, Farwell v Great Western Tel. Co., 161
ILiniois, 522, are not authoritative upon the proposition that
such decree would not in the courts of Illinois have the effect
of res 3udicata. The first of. the cases-considered by this
court in Gay v Parpart,106 U. S. 689 et seq.-dealt merely
with the right of a court of equity to refuse to lend its aid to
-enforce an incomplete and ineffective decree in partition proceedings, because to do so would be inequitable. In the second
of the cases it was but decided that a fraudulent decree might
be set aside in a court of equity
The general rule in Illinois undoubtedly is that a consent

decree has the same force and effect as a decree rn snvitum.
Knobloch v Mueller, 123 Illinois, 554, O'Connell v Chwago
Terminal R. R., 184 Illinois, 308, 325. Thus, in Knobloch v.
Mueller, the court said (123 Illinois, 565)
"Decrees of courts of chancery, in respect of matters within
their jurisdiction, are as binding and conclusive upon the
parties and their privies as are judgnients at law; and a decree
by consent in an amicable suit, has been held to have an
additional claim to be considered final. Alleson v Stark, 9
Adol. & E. 255. Decrees -so entered by consent cannot be
reversed, set aside, or inpeached by bill of review or bill in
the nature of a bill of review, except for fraud, unless it be
shown that the consent was not, in fact, given, or something
was inserted as by consent that was not consented to. 2
Daniell, Ch. Pr. 1576, Webb v Webb, 3 Swanst. 658, Thompson v Maxwell, 95 U. S. 391, Armstrong v Cooper, 11 Illinois,
540; Cronk v Traubbe, 66 Illinois, 432, Haas v Chwago Buildng Society, 80 Illinois, 248, Atkhnson v Mauks, 1 Cow 693,
Winehester v Winchester, 121 Massachusetts, 127, Alleson v
Stark, 9 Adol. & E. 225, Earl of Hopetoun v Ramsay, 5 Bell's
App. Cas. 69. See also, note to Duchess of Kingston's Case,
2'Smith Lead. Cas. *826 et seq. It is the general doctrine
that such a decree is not reversible upon an appeal or writ of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opmuozi of the Court.

198 U. S.

error, or by bill of review for error. Armstrong v Cooper, 11
Illinois, 540."
And the assertion that the particular matters relied upon
m this cause are of such a character as to take this case out
of the rule just stated, is conclusively shown to be without
merit by the decision of the Appellate Court and the Supreme
Court of Illinois, affirming the decree of separation and the
finding therein made.
In the argument at bar -there is a ground taken winch was
not referred to m the opinion of the Supreme Court of California, which it is insisted shows that that court was right m
its decision, although the reasoning of its opinion may be conceded to have been erroneous. That ground -is this. In
Illinois it is contended it has been settled that a decree m a
suit for separate maintenance is not res judicata in a suit for
divorce on the ground of desertion, and vwe versa, therefore
the Illinois decree should not have been given in California any
greater effect. Two cases are relied upon. Wahle v Wahle,
71 Illinois, 510, and Umlauf v Umlauf, 117 Illinois, 580. Butthese cases do not sustain the proposition based on them. In
the Wahle case the husband had sued his wife for divorce on
the ground of abandonment, and she, in addition to answering,
had filed a cross bill charging the husband with cruelty and
adultery, and praying for separate maintenance. The principal cause was first heard and decided adversely to the husband. Subsequently 'the cross bill was heard and a. decree
of dismissal was rendered. This was alleged to be error, on
the .ground that the verdict of the jury on the issue of divorce,
m favor of the wife, was a judicial determination, establishng
the-facts alleged in her cross bill, and justifying'her in.living
apart from her husband. But the Supreme Court of Illinois
held that as the verdict of the jury in the divorce suit was
.general, and did not indicate upon what particular finding it
'was based, the court could-not know upon. what fact the jury
were induced to find as they did, and that in consequence the
bill did not necessarily establish that the separation of the

HARDING v. HARDING.
198 U. S.

Opmlon of the Court.

parties was without fault on the part of th6 wife, since the
verdict might have proceeded upon either of the following
grounds: 1, that the abandonment was for less than two years;
2, that it was by mutual consent; or, 3, that it was induced by
the acts of the husband, whatever might have been the fault
of the wife.
In Umlauf v Umlauf, the wife filed a bill for separate maintenance but failing to establish her right the bill was dismissed. Subsequently the husband filed a bill for divorce,
charging willful desertion by the wife from thg date of the filing
of her bill against him for separate maintenance. Upon the
hearing of the divorce case the court admitted in evidence
against the objection of the wife the pleadings and the decree
against her in the suit for separate maintenance, and also
excluded all evidence on her part tending to disprove the
charge of desertion. From a judgment granting the divorce
the wife appealed. The Supreme Court of Illinois prefaced its
consideration of the question with the following statement
(p. 584)
"No principle is better settled than that where a question,
proper for judicial detcrmination is directly put in issue, and
finally determined in a legal proceeding by a court having
competent authority and jurisdiction to hear and determine
the same, such decision and determination of the question will
be deemed final and conclusive upon 'the parties and their
privies in all future litigation between them in which the same
question arises, so long as the judgment remains unreversed
or is not otherwise set aside."
But the court held that these elementary principles did not
apply, beeause the decree against the wife in the separate
maintenance suit was general and might have been entered
solely upon the ground that the wife was not without fault,
leaving undecided the question whether the husband was in
any way at fault, and, therefore, there was not identity, and
resulting res 3udicata.
The inappositeness of these cases to the present one beVOL. oxovii-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

198 U. S.

comes obvious when it is recalled that-m this case there-was a
decree not against but in favor of the wife m the maintenance
suit, which decree necessarily conclusively settled that the
separation was for cause and was without fault on the part of
the wife, and therefore was not a willful desertion of the husbancfby the wife, which is the precise issue in the divorce case
now here.
In the brief of counsel it is stated that under the law of
California, if a wife is living apart from her husband under
circumstances which do not constitute desertion, yet such
living apart may become desertion if the husband in good
faith invites the wife to return and she does not do so. In
this connection reference is made to certain requests proffered
by the husband for the wife to return, which it is urged caused
the separation to become desertion uider the California law
But conceding, without deciding, that the California law is as
asserted, the proposition of fact upon which the argument
rests amounts simply to denying all effect to the Illinois decree. This follows, because all the requests to return-referred
to were mad in Illinois before the entry of the final decree in
the suit for separate maintenance, were referred to in the answer in that case, and were adversely concluded by the judgSment whichwasrendered. Johnsonv.Johnson, 125 Illinois, 510.
Having thus disposed of all the contentions*based upon the
assumed consent under the decree for separate maintenance
or the asserted limitations to such a decree, basea upon the
law of Illinois, we are brought to consider the final question
which is, Was the decree in favor of the wife for separate
maintenance entered in the Illinois case conclusive upon the
husband in the courts of California of the issue of willful
desertion? That-the issue of willful desertion present in the
divorce action was identical with the issue of absence without
fault presented in the Illinois maintenance suit, is manifest.
The separation asserted by the wife in her bill for separate
maintenance to have been without her fault was averred to
have taken place on 'ebruary 1, 1890, and such separation

HARDING v. HARDING.
198 U. S.

Opnion of the Court.

was stated by the husband in his answer to the bill to have
been an'abandonment and desertion of him. The willful de-'
sertion charged. in the complaint in this action for divorce
was averred to have been committed "on or about the month
of February, 1890, and to have been continuous thereafter."
And the identity between the two is further demonstrated by
the circumstance that the evidence taken in the Illinois case
bearing upon the cause for the separation was used upon the
trial in this case. The question in each suit, therefore, was
whether the one separation and living apart was by reason of
the fault of the Wife. From the standpoint of a decree in favor
of thewife in the suit for separate maintenance the issues raised
and determined were absolutely identical.
The controversy before us is, in some respects, like that
which was considered in Barberv Barber, 21 How 582. There
a bill was filed in a Federal court in Wisconsin to enforce ]udgment for alimony under a decree of separation a mensa et thoro,
rendered against a husband inNew York. It was shown by
the evidence that to avoid the payment of the alimony the
husband had left the State of New York, the matrimonial
domicil, and taken up his residence in the State of Wisconsin,
where he obtained a decree of divorce on the ground of desertion by the wife. Whilst this court refrained from expressing
an opinion as to the legality of the Wisconsnm decree of divorce
obtained under these circumstances, it enforced the New York
judgment for alimony, and held it to be binding. And that it
was considered that the judgment in New York legalizing the
separation precluded the possibility that the same separation
could constitute willful desertion of the wife by the husband,
plainly appears from the following excerpt from the opinion
-italics mine (p. 588)
"It also appears, from the record, that the defendant had
made his application to the court in Wisconsin for a divorce
a vztnulo from Mrs. Barber,. without having disclosed to that
court any of the circumstances of the divorce case in New
York; and that, contrary to the truth, verified by that record, he

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 13. S.

asks for the divorce on account of his wife having willfully
abandoned him."
So also the courts of Massachusetts have held the fact to
be that a separation legalized by judicial decree was a conclusive determination that the same separation was not willful
desertion. Thus in Miller v Miller, 150 Massachusetts, 111,
explicitly approved in Watts v. Watts, 160 Massachusetts, 464,
after holding that an adjudication of a probate court that a
wife is living apart from her husband for justifiable cause, was
a bar to an action by the husband for divorce on the ground
of utter desertion, the court, speaking of the decree of the
probate court, said.
"The fact determined by it is inconsistent with the necessary
allegation in the libel, that the libellee previously had utterly
deserted the libellant, and was then continuing such desertion.
Utter desertion, which is recogmzed by the statute as a cause
for divorce, is a marital wrong. Because the deserter is a
wrongdoer, the law gives the deserted party a right to a divorce.
If a wife leaves her husband for a justifiable cause, it is not
utter desertion within the meaning of the statute, and a wife
who has utterly deserted her husband, and is living apart from
hun in continuance cf such desertion cannot be found to be so
living for justifiable cause. Pidge v Pidge, 3 Mete. 257, 261;
Fera v Fera, 98 Massachusetts, 155, Lyster v Lyster, 111
Massachusetts, 327
"The court should have ruled as requested by the libellee,
that the decree of the probate court was a bar to the maintenance of this libel. Exceptions sustained."
We are of opinion that the final decree of July 26, 1897,
entered in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, in legal
effect established that the separation then existing and which
began contemporaneously with the filing of the bill in that
cause in February, 1890, was lawful, and therefore conclusively
operated to prevent the .same separation from constituting a
willful desertion by the wife of the husband. From these
conclusions it necessarily follows that the issue presented in

DELAWARE, L. &c. R. R. CO.

198 U. S.

. PENNSYLVANIA 81

Syllabus.

this action for divorce was identical with that decided in the
suit mulllinois for separate maintenance. This being the case
it follows that the Supreme Court of California in affirming
the judgment of divorce failed to give to the decree of the

Illinois court the due faith and credit to which it was entitled,
and thereby violated the Constitution of the Umted States.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Califorma must
therefore be reversed, and the cause be remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so. ordered.
MR. JUsTicE BRoWN concurs in the result.

DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA AND WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TrO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 208. Argued April 10, 1905.--Decided May 15, 1905.

A tax on the value of the capital stock of a corporation is: a tax on the
property in which that capital is invested, and therefore no tax can be
levied upon the corporation issuing the stock which includes-property
that is otherwise exempt.
The same rule that requires the exclusion from the assessment of valuation
of capital stock of tangible personal property permanently situated out
of the State applies to property sent out of the State to be sold and which
is actually out of the State when the assessment is made.
As a State cannot directly tax tangible property permanently outside the
State and having no situs within the State, it cannot attain the same end
by taxing the enhanced value of the capital stock of a corporation which
arises from the value of property beyond its jurisdiction.
While an appraisement of value is in general a decision on a question of
fact and final, where it is arrived at by including property not within
the jurisdiction of the State, it is al solutely illegal as made withoutjurisdiction.
The collection of a tax on a corporation on its capital stock based on a
valuation which includes property situated out of the State would amount

