LAVAGNINO v. UHLIG.
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

LAVAGNINO v. UIJILIG.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 120. Argued January 12,1905.-Deeided Mlay 29,1905.

Where the necessary effect of the ruling .of the state court is to deny to a
locator of a mmeral claim the protection of the relocation provisions of

§ 2324, Rev. Stat., if that section justified the claim based upon it, or if
the record shows that the trial court considered that the plaintiff specially
claimed and was denied rights under § 2326, Rev. Stat., authorizing an
adverse of an application for a patent to mineral lands, a Federal question is involved and the motion to dismiss the writ of error will be denied.
Under § 2326, Rev. Stat., where there was a conflict of boundaries between
a senior and junior location, and the senior location has been forfeited,
the person who made the relocation of such forfeited claim has not the
right in adverse proceedings to assail the junior locator in respect to the
conflict area which had previously existed between that location and the
abandoned or forfeited claim.
A senior locator possessed of paramount rights in mineral lands may abandon
such rights and cause them to enure to the benefit of the applicant by
failure to adverse, or after adverse, by failure to prosecute such adverse.
The proviions of § 2326, Rev. Stat., as construed in this case, so qualify
§§ 2319 and 2324, Rev. Stat., as to ltrevent mineral lands of the United
States which have been the subject of conflicting locations, from becoming
unoad the claims of third parties unoccupied mineral lands, by the mere
forfeiture of one of such locations.
Quare, Whether a deputy mineral surveyor is prohibited by § 452 Rev.
Stat. from making the location of a mining claim not decided.

UHLIG and McKernan, two of the defendants m error, by
locations alleged to have been made on January 1, 1889, asserted ownership of two adjacent mining lode claims, designated respectively as the Uhlig Nb. 1 and the Uhlig No. 2,
situated in the West Mountain mining district, in Salt Lake
County, State of Utah. In the month of August, 1898, the
parties named filed in the proper land office an application for
patent for said claims. During the publication of notice of
the filing of the application, Giovanni Lavagnino, plaintiff in
error-as the alleged owner of a mining lode claim called the
Yes You Do-filed an adverse claim to a portion of the land
embraced in each of the Uhlig locations, which it was asserted

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

overlapped the Yes You Do. Thereupon, pursuant to the requirements of section 2326 of the Revised Statutes, this action was brought m a District Court of Salt Lake County,
Utah, to determine in whom was vested the title and right of
possession to the conflicting areas, which in the case of the
Uhlig No. 1 claim amounted to 6.374 acres and in the No. 2
to 1.441 acres.
In substance, Lavagnmo alleged in his complaint that at the
time of the location of the Uhlig claims there was a subsisting
valid location known as the Levi P lode claim, which included
within its areas the land in dispute in the action, that the necessary labor required by the statutes of the United States was
performed upon the claim up to and including the year 1896,
that no actual labor or improvements were made upon the
claim for the year 1897, and'in consequence all the land included within the Levi P location became forfeited and acquired the status of unoccupied and mineral lands of the
United States, and that while such was the status of the land,
on January 1, 1898, one J Fewson Smith, Jr.,-the grantor
of Lavagnino-relocated the Levi P claim as the Yes You
Do, and that thereafter all the requirements necessary to be
done had been performed, and the Yes You Do was then a
valid and subsisting location.
Subsequently the St. Joe Mining Company was substituted
in the stead of Uhlig, as a party defendant.
On the trial it was shown that at the time Smith located the
Yes You Do claim he was a deputy mineral surveyor for the
district in which such mining claim was situated, and that he
made the survey and plat for the protest which had been filed
in the land office against the Uhlig application for patent.
On the offer, as evidence for the plaintiff, of the notice of location of the Yes You Do claim and the deed from Smith to
Lavagnino, objection was made to their admission and the
offered evidence was excluded upon the ground that the
asserted location by Smith of the Yes You Do was not valid,
because at the time of the making thereof Smith was a deputy

LAVAGNINO v. UHLIG.
.198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

mineral surveyor, and was prohibited by the terms of section
452 of the Revised Statutes:of the United States from making
the location of a mining lode claim. For the same reason the
trial court sustained an objection to evidence offered on behalf
of the plaintiff tending to show that at the time. the. Uhlig
claims were located the ground covered by such locations was
then covered by prior locations made at an earlier hour on
the same day, and was consequently not subject to location as
unoccupied mineral lands of the United States. That one of
said locations-the Levi P -embraced the premises in dispute,
and wasa subsisting location until forfeited by failure to perform the annual work for the year 1897, that the relocation of
said claim as the Yes You Do was made on January 1, 1898,
and that the annual work and other steps required by law to
be done m connection with the claim had been performed.
Following the introduction of testimony tending to show
the validity of the Uhlig locations, testimony was introduced
on behalf of the plaintiff in respect to the location and working
of the Levi P claim, but on the offer of the Levi P location
notice the trial court sustained an objection thereto, and ruled
that as the Yes You Do was not a valid location there were
no adverse claims before the court, and as a result it was to be
conclusively presumed that there did not exist any location
which in anywise conflicted with the Uhlig claims sought to
be patented.
The court made findings of fact, in which, inter alia, it was
recited that the plaintiff at the trial had not introduced any
legal or competent evidence to sustain the issues on his part,
and consequently that "upon the trial, on motion of counsel
for defendants, the said action of the plaintiff against the defendant was, and is hereby, dismissed." The facts were then
found m respect to the location and working of the Uhlig
claims, and, as conclusions of law, the court held that the action against the defendants should be dismissed with costs,
and that the defendant, the St. Joe Mining Company, and the
defendant, Alexander McKernan, were entitled to purchase

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

198 U. S.

from the United States of America the said Uhlig claims and
the whole thereof, and were also entitled to a decree quieting
their title to the premises m dispute. From a decree entered
in conformity to these conclusions an appeal was prosecuted
to theSupreme Court of Utah, and that court affirmed the
decree. 26 Utah, 1. A writ of error was thereupon sued out
from this court.
Mr Aldis B. Browne, with whom Mr Alexander Britton
and Mr N W Sonnedecker were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:.
Section 452, Rev Stat., does not prohibit the location of a
mining claim by a United States deputy mineral surveyor.
Sutherland's Stat. Con. § 366, Endlich's Interpretation, § 341,
act of April 25, 1812, 2 Stat. 716, act of July 4, 1836,-5 Stat.
107, Grandy v Bedell, 2 L. D 314, Instructions of Commis.\sioners, 2 L. D. 313, McMscken's Case, 10 L. D. 97, S. C., 11
L. D 96, Circular of Sept. 15, 1890, 11 L. D 348, Winans v
Beidler, 15 L. D 266.
The designation of United States leputy mineral surveyor
is not known to Federal Statutes, §2334, Rev Stat., General
Mining Law of 1872, 17 Stat. 95,'Minig Law of 1866, 14 Stat.
252, General Mining Circulars of Dec. 18, 1903, 31 L. D. 453,
489, 32 L. D 367, §§ 90 et seq.
A deputy mineral surveyor is not a Federal- officer. United
States v Germasne, 99 U S, 508, United States v jmith, 124
U S. 525, 532. Nor is he a clerk either in the General Land
Office or in any public office subordinate to it. Bouvier,
sub. "Clerk", People ex rel. &c. v Fire Commmswners, 73
N. Y 422. Nor can the term employ6 be applied to him.
Century Diet., su.. "Employ6", People v Meyers, 33 N. Y
18, as the rendition of work and receipt of wages or salary
is essential to constitute a person an employ6. Mining regulations § 127 provides that the deputy has no claim on the
United States but looks only to the surveyor. Section 5, act
1876, 19 Stat.,169; act of 1884, 23 Stat. 17, McCluskey v

LAVAGNINO v. UHLIG.
198 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

Cromwell, 11 N. Y 593, Cent. Dict., sub. "Salary" and
"Wages", United States v Meigs, 95 U S. 748, Ex parte
Simons, 32 Fed. Rep., 681, Powell v United States, 60 Fed.
Rep. 687, United States v McDonald, 72 Fed. Rep. 898.
The idea of continuity of service is inseparable from the
word employd. An employ6 is not one who renders an occasional service. Louisville & . R. R. Co. v Wilson, 138
U S. 501, Auffmordt v Hedden, 137 U S. 310. The word
employ6 implies relation of master and servant which does not
exist. State v Emerson, 72 Maine, 455, Wood on Master and
Servant, §4, 618, People v Board of Police, 75 N. Y 41,
Mache v Hutehimnsn, 12 Ont. Pr. Rep. 167, Bishop on Noncontract Law, § 602, Campfield v Lang, 25 Fed. Rep. 128.
The surveyor is not an employ6 but a contractor and -the
partial control retained over him does not make him a servant.
Cooley on Torts, 548, Wharton on- Agency, § 19; Pack v
Mayor, 8 N. Y. 222, Kelly v Mayor, 11 N. Y 432, Kearney
v. Oakes, 18 Canada Sup. Ct. 148, Blake v Ferrs,5 N. Y 58,
Pennsylvania Statute of 1802, cited in Commonwealth v Binns,
17 S. & R. 220; Coal Co. v Railroad Co., 29 N. J Eq. 255,
Vane v Newcomb, 132 U S. 220, 233, The Twenty per cent
Cases, 20 Wall. 179. The decisions of the Land Department
are contradictory and it was not until f898 that it held that a
deputy mineral surveyor could not purchase Government
lands. For decisions prior to 1898 see Dennwson v Willetts, 11
Copp's L. 0. 261, Lock Lode Case, 6 L. D. 105, Maxwell's
Case, 29 L. D. 76, Baltzell's Case, 29 L. D. 333, Leffingwell's
Case, 30 L. D 139.
Even if the prohibition of § 452, Rev Stat., is applicable
to deputy mineral surveyor's title to the Yes You Do claim it
is good m the present holder, the plaintiff in error, to whom
the alleged deputy had conveyed all his interest prior to the
initiation of this proceeding. He is free from attack on this
ground except from the Government itself-so as to alienage
disabilities. Manuel v Wulff, 152 U S.505, McKinley Mining Co. v Alaska Minng Co., 183 U S. 563, 571, 1 Washburn,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

Real Property, 63, 1 Kerr on Real Property, 215, National
Bank v Matthews, 98 U. S. 621, Jones v Habersham, 107 U. S.
174, Reynolds v Bank, 112 U S. 405, 413. There was no exclusive adverse possession which is necessary in order to acquire prescriptive title. Buswell on Limitations, § 237, Dosevel v Morrill, 14 Wall. 120, 145, Ward v Cochran, 150 U. S.
597, 609; Larwell v Stevens, 12 Fed. Rej. 559; Bracken v
Union Pacific Ry., 56 Fed. Rep. 447, Larseii'v. Onesite, 20
Utah, 360; Digman v Nelson, 26 Utah, 186.
As to the validity of the relocation of.a claim see 1 Lindley
on Mines, 2d ed., §§ 363, 404, Jupiter Mining Co. v Bodie
Mining Co., 11 Fed. Rep. 666, 676, Jordan v Duke, 53 Pac.
Rep. 197, Oscamp v Crystal Rvver.Mining Co., 58 Fed. Rep.
293.
The alleged discoveries of the Uhlig Nos. 1 and 2 being
within the prior subsisting Levi P location, the locations
based thereon are void. 1 Lindley, § 611, Watson v. Mayberry, 15 Utah, 265, Reynolds v Pasco, 24 Utah, 219; Mining
Co. v Mawr, 134 California, 583, Erzin v Perego, 93 Fed.
Rep. 608, Mining Co. v Buck, 97 Fed. Rep. 462; Branagan
v Dulaqey, 2 L. D. 744, Re Winter Lode, 22 L. D 362, Gwillim
v Donellan, 115 U. S. 45, 50; Girardv Carson, 22 Colorado,
345.
Mr D H. Wenger, with whom Mr Arthur Brown was on
the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JusTIcE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The Supreme Court of Utah was of the opinion that, by
force of section 452 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States (copied in the margin'), J Fewson Smith, Jr., being
1 Section 452 Revised Statutes of the United States.
"The officers, clerks, and employ~s in the General Land Office are prohibited from directly or indirectly purchasing or becoming interested in the

LAVAGNINO v. UHLIG.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a deputy mineral surveyor, was disqualified from locating the
Yes You Do claim, that in consequence the attempted location
of such clain was void, and that the plaintiff Lavagnino acquired no rights by the conveyance of the claim to him by
Smith. It was next decided that, as the plaintiff had failed
to show any right to the disputed premises, he became a
stranger to the title, and was without right to contest the claim
of the defendant. The correctness of the decree entered by
the trial court was also held to result from the terms of section 2332 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and
section 2859 of the Revised Statutes of Utah, both of which
sections are copied in the margin.1
Adopting the finding of the trial court that the Uhlig clains
were valid locations, attention was called to the fact that those
claims were located on January 1, 1889, while. the Yes You Do
was located more than eight years thereafter, viz., on January 1, 1898. A mining claim was declared to be a possessory
right and real estate under the statutes of Utah, and it was
held that one Mayberry, the locator of the Levi P claim, not
having instituted a suit to recover possession of the premises
in dispute within seven years after the location of the Uhlig
claims, was barred of all right to such premises by the terms
purchase of any of the public land; and any person who violates this section
shall forthwith be removed from his office."
I Section 2332, 'Rev. Stat. United States.
"Where such person or association, they and their grantors, have held
and worked their claims for a period equal to the time prescribed by the
statute of limitations for mining claims of the State or Territory where the
same may be situated, evidence of such possession and working of the claims
for such period shall be sufficient to establish a right to a patent thereto
under this chapter, in the absence of any adverse claim; but nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to impair any lien which may have attached in
any way whatever to any mining clain or property thereto attached prior
to the issuance of a patent."
Section 2859, Rev. Stat. Utah.
"No action'for the recovery of real property, or for the possession thereof,
slall be maintained, unless it appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, grantor,
or predecessor was seized or possessed of the property in question within
seven years before the commencement of the action."

voL. oxovni-29

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

of section 2859 of the Revised Statutes of Utah, and that his
right to contest the title of the defendants to the conflict areas
"was also waived by his failure to adverse the application for
a patent of the Uhlig Nos. 1 and 2." The court added. "In
view of these facts the plaintiff, even if J Fewson Smith, Jr.,
had not been a deputy United States mineral surveyor, as the
location of the Yes You Do was not made until eight years
after the possession of the Uhlig Nos. 1 and 2 was begun, could
not avail himself of any rights which the said Mayberry may
have had."
This latter xuling of the Supreme Court of Utah forms the
basis for the first of two grounds of a motion to dismiss this
writ of error, which motion will now be passed upon.
The first is, in substance, that, assuming that there was a
Federal question determined by the Supreme Court of Utah,
its decision was not necessary, and whether it was or not
jurisdiction does not exist, because there was another ground
upon which the decree of the trial court was affirmed, nonFederal in its nature, and broad enough to maintain the judgment, viz., the ruling of the bar of the statute of limitations.
The second ground is thus stated.
"That under the decision of the Supreme Court of the State
of Utah, this court has no jurisdiction to hear and determine
the question raised under section 452, Rev Stat. U S., for
the reason that the plaintiff in error has not brought himself
within the provisions of section 709, Rev Stat. U S."
We are of opinion that neither of the grounds urged m
support of the motion to dismiss is tenable. As to the first,
it is true that the Supreme Couit of Utah decided that, even
although J Fewson Smith, Jr., had been qualified to locate
the Yes You Do claim, the location was invalid because made
more than seven years after the location of the Uhlig Nos. 1
and 2, when, it washeld, the bar of the statute of limitations
was operative. But this amounted to saying that even although the plaintiff was entitled to adverse'the Utlig claims,
he could not be heard to rebut the evidence for the defendants

LAVAGNINO v. UHLIG.
198 U.S.

Opimon of the Court.

as to the possession under the Uhlig locations, by evidence as
to the possession taken and had under the Levi P location.
Plainly we think the ruling denied to the grantee of the Yes
You Do, under the hypothesis that they existed, rights asserted
by him under section 2324 of the Revised Statutes authorizing
the relocation of-forfeited claims. It is evident from the record
that the finding of the trial court as to the time when possession
was taken of the Uhlig Nos. 1 and 2 claims, and the duration
of possession was based entirely upon the evidence introduced.
on behalf of -the owners of those claims. The trial court
treated as irrelevant and immaterial evidence tending to show
that the premises m dispute were embraced in the Levi P
location, and that possession of that claim was held and retamed from a time at least contemporaneous with the initiation of the Uhlig locations and almost up to the location of the
Yes You Do, as a relocation of the Levi P Under such circumstances a decision that the bar of the seven years' statute
of limitations was operative, upon the assumption that the
locator of the Yes You Do was entitled to adverse conflicting
locations, amounted to deciding that Lavagnmo could not
show that the premises in dispute were unoccupied mineral
lands of the United States at the time of the location of the
Yes You Do, and, as bearing upon the validity of the relocation of the Levi P., the facts as to the location, possession under, and forfeiture of the Levi P claim. The necessary effect
of this ruling, as before stated, was, we think, to deny to. the
locator of the Yes You'Do the protection of the relocation
provisions of section 2324 of the Revised Statutes, if that section justified the claim of right based upon it.
As to the second ground, the record clearly shows that the
trial court considered that the plaintiff was specially claiming
rights under section 2326 of the Revised Statutes, authorizing
an adverse of an application for a patent to mineral lands, and
the Supreme Court of Utah necessarily acted upon that assumption in the opinion by it delivered. The motion to dismiss is. fherefore, overruled.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

The question then is, Did the Supreme Court of Utah err
m affirming the decree of the trial court?
As we have seen, the Supreme Court of Utah, in part, rested
its conclusion, upon the want of power in a deputy mineral
surveyor to make the location in question, in consequence of
the prohibition contained in section 452 of the Revised Statutes. A consideration of that subject, however, will be unnecessary if it be found that even if a deputy mineral surveyor
was not within the restriction of the section referred to, nevertheless, the rights asserted under the Yes You Do location in
the adverse proceeding were not paramount to the rights arising from the Ublig location. We, therefore, come at once to
a consideration of that question, and, of course, m doing so
assume, for argument's sake, that the section of the Revised
Statutes relied upon and the rules and regulations of the Land
Department did not prohibit a deputy mineral surveyor from
making a location of mineral land. And, moreover, in considermg the question which we propose to examine, we concede, for the sake of argument, that the Levi P location, of
which the Yes You Do purported to be a relocation, was prior
in date to the location of the Uhlig Nos. 1 and 2, and that there
were areas in conflict between them. With all these concessions in mind the question yet remains whether Smith and his
transferee, m virtup of the location of the Yes You Do, stood
m such a relation as to enablb them, or either of theni, ,to successfully adverse the application for patent made by the
owners and possessors of, the Uhlig locations.
It is undoubted that this court in a ilumber of cases has
declared that the rights of a subsisting senior locator of mineral
land are paramount to those of the owner of a junior location,
so far as said junior location conflicts in whole or in part with
the prior location. Clipper Minsng Co. v Eli Min. & Land
Co., 194 U S. 220, 226, and cases cited. It is elementary also
that the power conferred by section 2324 of the Revised Statutes, to relocate a forfeited mining claim, does not place the
locator in privity of title with the owner of the prior and

LAVAGNINO
198 U. S.

' UHLIG.

Opinion of the Court

forfeited location. The statute merely provides that when a
forfeiture has been occasioned "th6 claim or mine upon which
such failure occurred shall be open to relocation in the same
manner as if no location of the same had ever been made,
provided that the original locators, their heirs, assigns, or
legal representatives, have not resumed work upon the claim
after failure and before such location."
The.question then is, where there was a conflict of boundaries
between a senior and junior location, and the senior location
has been forfeited, has the person who made the relocation of
such forfeited claim the right, in adverse proceedings, to assail
the title of the junior locator in respect to the conflict area
which had previously existed between that location and the
abandoned or forfeited claim?
To say that the relocator had such right involves, necessarily, deciding that, as to the area in conflict between the
junior and the senior locations, the junior could acquire no
present or eventual right whatever, and that on the abandonment or forfeiture of the senior clain the area in conflict became, without qualification, a part of the public domain. In
other words, the proposition must come to this: that as the
junior locator had acquired no right whatever, present or
possible, by his prior location, as to the conflicting area,, he
would be obliged, in order to obtain a patent for such area,
to initiate in respect thereto a new right, accompanied with
a performance of those acts which the statute renders necessary to make a location of a mining claim.
The deductions just stated are essential to-sustain the right
of the relocator of a forfeited mining claim to contest a location existing at the time of the relocation, on the ground that
such existing location embraced an area which was included
in the forfeited and alleged senior location,, for the following
reasons: If the land in dispute between the two locations,
which antedated the relocation, did not, on the forfeiture of
the senior of the two locations, become unqualifiedly a part of
the public domain, then the right of the junior of the two

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of theCourt.

198 U. S.

would be operative upon the area in conflict on a forfeiture
of the senior location. If it had that effect it necessarily was
prior and paramount to the right acquired by a relocation of
the forfeited claim.
But we do not think that the deductions which we have
said are essential to sustain the right of the relocator to adverse, under the circumstances stated, can be sustained consistently with the legislation of Congress in relation to mining
claims. Indeed, we think such a construction would abrogate
the provisions of section 2326 of the Revised Statutes, which
is as follows:
"SEc. 2326. Where an adverse claim is filed during the
period of publication, it shall be upon oath of the person or
persons making the same, and shall show the nature, boundaries, and extent of such adverse claim, and all proceedings,
except the publication of notice and making and filing of the
affidavit thereof, shall be stayed until the controversy shall
have been settled or decided by a court of competent jurisdiction, or the adverse claim waived. It shall be the duty of
the adverse claimant, within thirty days after filing his claim,
to commence proceedings m a court of competent jurisdiction,
to determine the question of the right of possession, and prosecute the same with reasonable diligence to final judgment; and
a failure so to do shall be a waiver of his adverse claim. After
such judgment shall have been rendered, the party entitled to
possession of the claim, or any portion thereof, may, without
giving further notice, file a certified copy of the judgment roll
with the register of the land office, together with the certificate
of the surveyor general that the requisite amount of labor has
been expended or improvements made thereon, and the. description required in other cases, and shall pay to the receiver
five dollars per-acre for his claim, together with the proper
fees, whereupon the whole proceedings and the judgment roll
shall be certified by the register to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, and a patent shall issue thereon for the
claim, or such portion thereof as the applicant shall appear,

LAVAGNINO. 'v. UHLIG.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from the decision of the court, to rightly possess. If it appears from the decision of the court that several parties are
entitled to separate and different portions of the claim, each
party may pay for his portion of the claim, with the proper
fees, and file the certificate and description by the surveyor
general, whereon the register shall certify the proceedings and
judgment roll to the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
as in the preceding case, and patents shall issue to the several
parties according to their respective rights. Nothing herein
contained shall be construed to prevent the alienation of the
title conveyed by a patent for a mining claim to any person
whatever."
This section plainly recognizes that one who, pursuant to
other provisions of the Revised Statutes, has initiated a right
to a mining claim, has recorded his location notice and performed the other acts made necessary to entitle to a patent,
and who makes application for the patent, publishing -the
statutory notice, will be entitled to a patent for the land embraced m the location notice, unless adverse rights are set up
m the mode provided in the section. Thus clearly providing
that if there be a senior locator possessed of paramount rights
m the mineral lands for which a patent is sought, he may
abandon such rights and cause them in effect to enure to the
benefit of the applicant for a patent by failure to adverse, or,
after adversing, by failure to prosecute such adverse.
It cannot be denied that under sect'on 2826, if before aban.donment -or forfeiture of the Levi P clam, the owners of the
Uhlig locations had applied for a patent, and the owners of
the Levi P had not adversed the application, upon an establishment of a prima ]face right in the owners of the Uhlig
claims, an indisputable presumption would have arisen that
no conflict claims existed to the premises described in the location notice. Gwvillim v Donnellan, 115 U. S. 45, 51. And the
same result would have arisen had the owner of the Levi P
adversed the application for a patent based upon the Uhlig locations and failed to prosecute and waived such adverse claim

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

In both of the supposed instances the necessary consequence wopld have been to conclusively determine m favor
of the applicant, so far as the rights of third, persons were
concerned, that the land was not unoccupied public land of
the United States, but, on the contrary, as to such persons,
from the time of the location by the applicant for the patent,
was land embraced within such location and not subject to
be acquired by another person. And this result, flowing from
the failure of the owner of a subsisting senior location to adverse an application for patent by the owner of an opposing
location, or his waiver if an adverse claim is made, must, as
the greater includes the lesser, also arise from the forfeiture of
the claim of the senior locator before an application for patent
is made by the conflicting locator and the consequent impossibility of the senior locator to successfully adverse after the
forfeiture is complete.
Of course, the effect of the construction, which we have
thus given to section 2326 of the Revised Statutes, is to cause
the provisions of that section to qualify sections 2319 and
2324, thereby preventing mineral lands of the United States,
which have been the subject of conflicting locations, from becoming quoad the claims of third parties, unoccupied mineral
lands, by the mere forfeiture of one of such locations.
In text books (Barringer and Adams, Law of Mines and
Mining of the United States, p. 306, Lindley on Mines, 2d ed.,
pp. 650, 651) statements are found which seemingly indicate
that m the opinion of the writers, on the forfeiture of a senior
mining location, quoad a junior and cqnflicting location, the
area of conflict becomes in an unfqualified sense unoccupied
mineral lands of the United States without enuring in any
way to the benefit of the junior location. But, m the treatises
referred to, no account is taken of the effect of the express
provisions of Rev Stat. section 2326. -Moreover, when the
cases to which the text writers referred, as sustaining the
statements made, are examined, it will be seen that they were
decided either before the passage of the adverse clain statutes

LAVAGNINO v. UHLIG.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of 1872, or concerned controversies between the senior and
junior locators or depended upon the provisions of state statutes. How far such statutes would be controlling, we are not
called upon to say, as it is not claimed that there is any statute
in Utah in any way modifying the express provisions of seetibiy 2326.
As the issue raised by the complaint in this action concerned
only the conflict areas and on the trial the invalidity of the
Uhlig locations, in respect to the premises m dispute, was attempted to be established solely by proof that the Levi P Wran antecedent location and embraced the grounds in conflicu,
it follows, from the opinion which we have expressed, that at
the time when Smith located the Yes You Do claim as a relocation of the Levi P claim the land embraced within the location
notices of the Uhlig claims, and upon which the Yes You Do
overlapped, was not unoccupied mineral lands of the United
States, and was consequently not subject to be relocated by
Smith, even under the mere hypothesis which we have indulged
in, that, as a deputy mineral surveyor, he was not debarred
from making the location. For this reason the judgment of
the Supreme Co-rt of Utah was right, and it must therefore
be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

BREWER concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents.

