WELLS COMPANY v. GASTONIA COMPANY.
198 U. S.

177

Statement of the Case,

W. L. WELLS COMPANY v. GASTONIA COTTON MANUFACTURING COMPANY
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No.237. Argued April 28, 10.-Decided May 8,1905.

The charter of a corporation rn Mississippi provided that the incorporators
"are hereby created a body politic and corporate," and also that "as
soon as ten thousand dollars of stock is subscribed and paid for said
corporation shall have power to commence business." The ten thousand
dollars was not paid in, but the corporation after doing business commenced an action against a citizen of another State m the Circuit Cqurt
of the United States for North Carolina for goods sold; defendant demed
any knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to plaintiff's
corporate capacity. Plaintiff recovered m the Circuit Court but the
Circuit Court of Appeals held that owing to the failure to pay m the
amount specified m the charter, plaintiff was not. a corporation and a.
citizen of Missisippi, and that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court did

not affirmatively appear. Held, error:
That the denial of defendant was sufficient under the practice of North Carolina to put the question of plaintiff's-corporate capacity to suem issue.
That for purposes of suing and being sued m the courts of the United States
the members of a uorporation are to be deemed citizens of the State by
whose laws it was created.
That plaintiff became in law a corporation when its charter was approved
and the Great Seal of the State affixed thereto, and as such was entitled
to sue in the United States Circuit Court as a citizen of Miss=sippi, and
the subscription and payment of the required amount of capital stock was
not such a condition precedent that the corporation did not exist until
it was paid. If the orgamzation of the company as a corporation was
tainted with fraud it was for the State by appropriate proceedings to
annul thecharter.

THE plaintiff, the W L. Wells Company, seeks in this action
to recover a balance alleged to be due from the defendant, the
Gastonia Cotton Manufactung Company, on account.of certam sales. of cotton in the years 1899 and 1900.
The complaint averred that the plaintiff and defendaint were,

respectively, created and duly organized as corporations-the
•former, under the laws of Misissippi, the latter, under the laws
of North Carolina.
VOL. oxovni--.. 12

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

The defendant admitted that it was a corporation, duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and a citizen and
,resident of that.State, but averred that it had "no knowledge
or. information sufficient to form a belief as to the truth of the
allegation contained in the first section of the complaint, to wit,
that the plaintiff is a corporation organized under the laws of
the State of Mississippi and a citizen and resident of that State,
and, therefore, it denies the said allegation." The other paragraphs of the answer pilt in issue the allegations of the complaint touching the plaintiff's claim against the defendant.
There was another action m the same court brought by the
W L. Wells Company against the Avon Mills on account of
transactions like those involved in the other case.
By consent of the parties and pursuant to an order of court
the two cases.were consolidated and tried together. In answer to questions propounded by the court the jury found that
the W L. Wells Company was, as alleged in the complaint, a
corporation and a citizen and resident of Mississippi and entitled to recover the sum of $39,313.88. A judgment was rendered for that amount against the Gastoma Cotton Manufacturng Company-the Circuit Court holding, upon a review of
the evidence in connection with the findings of the jury, that
the W L. Wells Company was a corporation of Mississippi,
and as such entitled to invoke the jurisdiction of that court as
against the defendant corporation of North Carolina. 118
Fed. Rep. 190.
The case was then carried to the Circuit Court of Appeals
which adjudged that the plaintiff had- failed to establish the
allegations of the complaint as to its corporate capacity, and,
therefore, was not entitled to sue in the Circuit Court in its
alleged corporate name. Without considering the" merits of
the case, that court reversed the judgment for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court and the cause was remanded with
liberty to the plaintiff, if it was so advised, to amend the complaint by inserting the individual names of those constituting
the company in whose name the: action was brought, which

WELLS COMPANY v. GASTONIA COMPANY
198 U. S.

179

Argument for Petitioner.

being done a new trial should be granted,. and if the plaintiff
declined to amend,. then the case was to be dismissed without
prejudice. 128 Fed. Rep. 369. Subsequently, the present
writ of certiorari was granted.
Mr Joseph Hirsh and Mr Charles W Tillett, with whom
Mr Murray F Smith was on the brief, for petitioner"
Plaintiff was created a corporation by the terms of its
charter, and its right to sue was thereby expressly authorized.
Perkins v Sanders, 56 Mississippi, 733, 739; St. J & Iowa R. R.
Co. v. Shambaugh, 166 Missouri, 567, Hammond v Strauss, 53
Maryland, 1.
Plaintiff was at least a corporation de facto. Tulare Irrgation Dzstrtct v Shepard, 185 U S. 1, 13.
The corporate existence of plaintiff cannot be assailed, even
if the capital stock was not paid before the commencement of
business. 1 Clark & Marshall, Corp., 231, 257, citing Stokes
v Findlay, 4 McCrary, 205, Bibb v Hall, 101 Alabama, 79;
Canfield v Gregory, 66 Connecticut, 917, Unmon Water Co. v
Kean, 52 N. J Eq. 111. See also Bank v Stone-et al., 38
Michigan, 779; Att'y Gen'l v Simonton, 78 N. Car. 57, Hacken.sack Water Co. v De Kay, 36 N. J Eq. 548, Eaton v Aspinwall, 19 N. Y 121, Rsce v Rock Island &c. R. R. Co., 21 Illinois,
93, Burns v Beck, 10 S. E. Rep. 121, McCandless v Inland
Co., 42 S. E. Rep. 449; First Nat. Bank v Almy, 117 Massachusetts, 476, Fargasonv Oxford Affercantile Co., 78 Mississippi,
65, Oregonan R. R. Co. v Oregon Ry. &c. Co., 23 Fed. Rep.
232, Armour v Bement, 123 Fed. Rep. 56.
A failure to pay for the capital stock of a corporation cannot be made the basis of defense by a debtor of said corporation, and the question can only be raised by the State. Cases
supra and Smith v Meridian & Ala. R. R. Co., 6 S. & M. 179;
Frost v Frostberg Coal Co., 24 How 278, Smith v Sheely, 12
Wall. 358, Kayser v Bremen, 16 Missouri, 88.
The failure to issue capital stock is immaterial. Close v.
Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U S. 385.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Respondent.

198 U. S.

Defendant 'having contracted with the plaintiff as a corporation, and being now m the enjoyment of the fruits of such
contract, is estopped to deny its corporate existence. Casey
v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673, 680;.Andes v Ely, 158 U. S. 312, 322;
Debenture Co. v Louwsnan, 180 U. S. 320, 328.
It is sufficient to show a de facto corporate existence in
order to sustain an action by or against an association as a
corporation, on a note, bond or other contract. 1 Clark &
Marshall on Corporations, 231. Citing cases m Georgia, Idaho,
Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Massachusetts, Missouri, Nebraska,
New York, Vermont, West. Virgima, and see also Dallas Co.
v. Huuekoper, 154 U S. 654.
Even where there is a condition precedent, the right to
recover is maintained. Sherwood v. Alrs, 83-Alabama, 115;
Smith v. Sheely, 12 Wall. 358.
Where the failure to comply with the restrictions nposed
by the statute.does not by its terms vitiate and declare void
the corporate acts, it is simply an inhibition and no one but
the State can object. Whitney v: Wyman, 101 U. .2. 392.
And this right the State- may waive. 2 -Cook on Corp.

§636.
It .is not essential. to the existence of a corporation that
certificates of stock be issued. 1 Cook on Corp., 5th. ed.,- § 13.
Courts act with extreme caution in proceedings which
have for their object the forfeiture of corporate franchises.
Freeman in note..to, State. v Atchison &c. R. R., 8 .Am. St.

Rep. 181.
Courts must construe the charter favorably and liberally for
the corporation. Harms v Miss. Valley &c. R. R. Co., 51
Mississippi, 602.
H. ,Price,with whom Mr Charles Prwce, Mr.
Mr. Augustus
II

Ar ustead Burwell qnd Mr. Edwn Causler were on the brief,
for respondent:
The plaintiff was not a de lure corporation, as it had not
been organized under the Mississippi statute. No stock had

WELLS COMPANY v. GASTONIA COMPANY.
198 U. S.

181

Argument f~r Respondent.

been paid for, even if John T. Wells' testimony is taken as true.
The pretended payment was not even colorable.
If there was no payment for the subscriptions for., stock,
thpre was necessarily no proper organization of *the corporation, under the laws of the State of Mississippi, and, therefore, the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, even though the
defendant was estopped. to deify the general corporate existence of the plaintiff, Morawetz, Corp., 1st ed., § 267, and
cases cited, Am. Corp. Leg. Manual, 1902, 301, 1 Beach on
Corp., 18, 26, Bigelow v Gregory, 73 Illinois, 197, Kaiser v.
Lawrence Say. Bank, 56 Iowa, 104, Hicks v Converse, 37 La.
Ann. 484.
it is not sufficient to give the court jurisdiction,that the
plaintiff is a de facto corporation, or a corporation by reason,
merely, 6f an estoppel. It must be a de lure corporation.
The Federal courts-have. only limited jurisdi3,ion. Their
authorities and powers are strictly statutory They can acquire jurisdiction of. a case only in the manner pointed out
by the statute. Farngtonv Pillsbury, 114 U. S. 138.
The.statute requires that-the plaintiff shall be a citizen of
a State other than that of defendant, but there must be diverse
citizenshiq. A corporation can become a citizen within the
meaning of this statute only by b~ing duly chartered and
organized under the law of the State of its origin.
The question of plaintiff's citizenship was properly raised
'by the denial in the answer. Code N. Car. §§ 130, 260, 276,
S. P Co. v Denton,'146 U. S. 202.
If there was nt payment of the-subscriptions for stock,
then the plaintiff had no capacity to make any contract, and
those alleged in the complaint are void, and cannot be enforced in any court. Tube Works v Improvement Co., 39
L. R. A. 810; Empzre Mills v A. G. Co., 12 L. R. A: 366.
The individual incorporators must be treated as partners.
Jones v Hardware Co., 29 L. R. A. 143, Bergeron v Hobbs,
96 Wisconsin, 641) Burns v Beck, 10 S. E. Rep. 121.

Defendant is not estopped. b dealing, with the corporagiSn

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Olfumon of the Court.

198 U. S.

to deny that' it has power to contract or to sue. Doyle v.
Miznr, 3 N: W Rep. 968, Welland v Hathaway, 25 Am. Dec.
51, Dams v Stvens, 104 Fed. Rep. 235, Wechselberg v Bank,
64 Fed. Rep. 90..MR. Jus CE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
•. As the plaintiff was not entitled to maintain its action in the
'Circuit Court unless it was a corporation of Mississippi, Great
Southern Fire-ProofHotel Co.. v Jones, 177 U S. 449, 454,
456, and the authorities there cited, the denial in the answer
of knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief on that
point put in issue the plaintiff's corporate character, within
the meaning of the rule, no longer to be questioned, that for
purposes of suing and of being sued in the courts of the United
States the members of a corporation are to be deemed citizens
of the State by wfiose laws it was created, ahd as the jurisdiction. of the courts of the United States must always appear
affirmatively, of record, it became necessary, under existihg
statutes and under the rules of practice and pleading in North
Carolina, for the'plaintiff to prove that it was a corporation
of Mississippi. Roberts v Leuns, 144 U. S. 653,. 56, 17 Stat.
196, 197, c. 255, act of June 1, 1872; Rev. Stat. §914, 18 Stat.
470, c. 137, act of March, 1875, Code of Civil Procedure,
N. Car. §§ 133, 243, 26O, 276, Southern Pacific Co. v Denton,
146. U. S. 202. It was so held, and correctly, by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 128 Fed. Rep. 369.
Was the plaintiff a corporation of Mississippi within the
meaning of the above rule? In that State individuals may
become incorporated for certain purposes under general laws.
The first step there towards incorporation is to apply to the
Governor for a charter, stating the purposes for winch the
corporation is to be created. That officer then takes *theadvice of the Attorney General as to the constitutionality and
legality of the provisions of the proposed charter. If the Gov-

WELLS COMPANY v. G-ASTONIA COMPANY.
198 U. S.

183

Opimon of the Court.

ernor approves the charter, and causes the Great Seal of the
State to be affixed thereto by the Secretary of State, it would
seem that the process of incorporation then becomes complete.
Charters of incorporation in that State are required to be
recorded in the office of the Secretary of State and in the office
of the clerk of the Chancery Court of the county rn which the
corporation does business. Anno. Code of Miss. 1892, c. 25.
It appeared in evidence that W L. Wells, John T. Wells
and George Butterworth submitted to the Governor of Mississippi, to be referred to the Attorney General of the State,

the following form of charter"§ 1. Be it known and remembered. that W L. Wells,
John T. Wells and George Butterworth, their associates and
assigns, are hereby created a body politic and corporate, under
the name and style of W. L. Wells Company, and by that name
shall have succession for fifty years, shall have power to sue
and be sued, contract and be contracted with, may have a
corporate seal, and break and alter the same at pleasure.
§ 2. The capital stock of said corporation shall be fifty thousand dollars, divided into shares of five hundred dollars each,
and as soon as ten thousand dollars of said stock is subscribed
and paid for, said corporation shall have power to commence
business. § 3. Said corporation is formed for the purpose
of conducting a general cotton business, and may buy and sell
cotton, and may transact a cotton factorage business, may
advance money or supplies for the purpose of controlling shipments of cotton, may take and receive mortgages or deeds of
trust upon property to secure said advances, and generally
may have all powers conferred by Chapter 25 of the Annotated Code of 1892 necessary and requisite to carry out the
purpose of said corporation. §4; The board- of directors of
said corporation shall consist of three persons, whose numbers
may be increased at any time by a majority vote of the stockholders, and.said directors shall have power to elect all necessary officers, and prescribe the duties, salaries and tenure of
such officers."

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

The Attorney General having certified that the proposed
charter of incorporation was not repugnant to the constitution or laws of the State, it was approved by the Governor,
and such approval was attested by the Secretary. of State,
the Great Seal of the State being thereto affixed. The Secretary thereupon certified under the Great Seal that the charter
"incorporating the W. L. Wells Company, was, pursuant to
the provisions of Chapter 25 of the Annotated Code, 1892,
recorded in the Book of Incorporations in ths office." It was
also recorded in the office of the clerk of the proper Chancery.
Court.
The contention of the defendants in the court below wasand their contention here is-that the subscription df $10,000
to the capital stock of the W L. Wells Company and the payment thereof, was a condition precedent to the company's
becoming a corporation, that -is, it could not become a corporation de fure until such subscription and payment. -And this
view was sustained by the Circuit Court of Appeals,. winch
said in its opinion. "It is very clear from this that, having a
charter like this, conditioned upon the payment of $10,000
in subscriptions, then these men undertook to exercise powers,
in the charter without fulfilling or attempting to fulfill the
conditions precedent in the charter; that, even when they had
made money in the business, they ignored the corporation
altogether, and drew the money out of the business as if it
belonged to them, and not to the corporation. The charter
never went into operation, and the corporation never became
& legal entity More than this, these assumed corporators
went on in business, and contracted obligations in the name
of the so-called corporation, which did not possess a dollar of
property, or have any mode of meeting a debt, thus seeking to
cloak their transactions under an assumed corporate name,
and avcid in this way all personal responsibility. At the same
_time two of them were, in a business- sense, irresponsible. It
would seem that this transaction was an abuse of, and in friud
of,' the law And that the Wells Company had never, and

WELLS COMPANY v. G-ASTONIA COMPANY.
198 U.S.

185

Opinon of the Court.

could not have, any legal existence. When- a corporation is
formed under an enabling act, all the mandatory provisions
of the statute must be complied with." 128 Fed. Rep. 369,
.372.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred
m holding that the charter of the W. L. Wells Company made
it a condition of its becoming a corporation that $10,000 of
capital stock should be subscribed and paid for. The question
was not as to the good faith of the incorporators, nor whether
the company was organized in fraud of "the law. Those were
not matters to be inquired into in ordinary suits between the
company and individuals or incorporations. If the organization of the company as a corporation was tainted with fraud,
it was for the State, by some appropri, te proceeding, to annul
its charter. The question before the court below was whether
the company was, technically, a corporation, and that depended upon the legal effect of the words of -its charter. The
first section of that charter expressly declares that the incorporators, their associates and assigns, "are hereby created
a body politic and corporate, under the name and style of
W. L. Wells Company, and by that name shall have succession
for fifty years, shall have power to sue and be sued, contract
and be contracted with, may have a corporate seal, and break
and alter the same at pleasure." These words can have but
one meaning. They manifest the purpose of the legislature
to create a corporation. Substantially the same words in a
charter granted by Congress were held to create a corporation.
Minor v Mechanscs' Bank of Alexandra, 1 Pet. 46, 63. The
secbnd section of the company's charter did not modify the
provisions of the first section. It did not require the payment
of a given amount of stock subscriptions before the company
should be considered sn esse asa, corporation. It did nothing
more than confer the privilege or power of commencing business when a specified amount, less than the whole, of its
authorized -capital stock was subscribed and paid for. The
company was created a corporation by the previous section,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court,

198 U. S.

with power in- its corporate name to 'sue and be sued, contract
and be contracted with, and, under the general statutes of the
State, it came into existence as a corporation immediately
upon its charter being approved by the Governor of Mississippi and such approval certified by the Secretary of State
under the Great Seal of the State. If the commencing of the
business for which it was incorporated before a'certam amount
of capital stock was subscribed and paid for was in violation
of the company's charter, that was a matter for which it could
be called to account by the State, and did not affect the existence in law of the company as a corporation. Of course, if
the charter of the company had mad6 it a condition precedent
to its becoming a corporation that a certain amount of capital
stock should be subscribed and paid for, a compliance with
that condition would have been necessary before the company
would have become a corporation entitled to sue and be sued
in the courts of the United States. But, as we have seen, the
charter in question prescribed no such condition. If the legislature had intended to withhold corporate existence until a
given amount of capital stock was subscribed and paid for,
that intention, we may assume, would have been manifested
by -clear language. We do not feel at liberty, by mere construction, to qualify the explicit declaration in the first section
of plaintiff's charter as to the corporate existence thereby
created. We therefore hold that under the statutes of Mississippi the only conditions precedent to the existence of the
corporation were the approval by the Governor of the State of
its -proposed charter and the certification of that approval
under the Great Seal of the State.
It is said that the interpretation we have given to the charter

of the W L. Wells Company is not in harmony with the principles announced by the Supreme Court of Mississippi. We are
referred in support of this view to Perkins v Sanders, 56 Mississippi, 733, 738, 739, which was a suit by a creditor to enforce
the personal liability of stockholders- for the debts of a certain
company But there is nothing in that case clearly indicating

WELLS COMPANY v. GASTONIA COMPANY.
198 U. S.

187

Opinon of the Court.

that the Supreme Court of Mississippi would, if this question
were before it, hold thp requirement of the subscription of
$10,000 of stock and its payment before commencing business
to have been a condition precedent to the plaintiff becoming
a corporation. That court, in the case cited, referred to a
section of the charter of the company there in question, providing that the persons named in it, and all others who then
were or might thereafter become .associated with them, and
their successors and assigns., "be, and they are hereby, created
a body politic and corporate, under the name," etc.,-a provision like that found in the plaintiff's charter. The court
said. "This was no proposition to create a corporation upon
the performance of certain conditions, but. it was itself the
creation of a corporation, requiring no other act to be performed by the corporators thin their acceptance of the charter,
and this even was unnecessary, if, as it is probable,, the corporators -had applied for the grant of the charter, and thus accepted it in advance.
.
The distinction between the
two classes of charters is thus seen to be that in the first class
the charter is. mere permission on the part of the legislature
for the formation of a corporation upon the doing of certain
acts prescribed in. the charter as precedent conditions, and,
as a necessary lesult, no corporate act can be done until those
conditions have been performed, except such as may be expressly permitted by the-charter; and,as to those acts, it would
be conidered that the corporation had an existence before its
full investiture with its corporate franchises. In the latter
class in which is this company the corporation 18 in existence
for all the purposes of its creation from the beginning, except
so far as there may be restraints placed on it by the charter,
either expressly or by plain implication."
It thus appears that the Supreme Court of Mississippi, in
the case referred to, decided that where acts are required to
be performed before the oorporation comes into existence, no
corporation is created or can exist until those acts are performed. In this general view we entirely concur. .But the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

question remains whether the particular charter here in question made it a condition precedent to the existence of the
W L. Wells Company as a corporation, that a certain amount
of its capital stock should be subscribed and paid for. As
already indicated, we are of opinion that no such condition
precedent was prescribed, -and that -under the statutes of
Mississippi and independently of the subscription of a certain
amount of stock and its payment, the plaintiff became, in
law a corporation when the Governor approved its charter and
the fact of such approval was certified by the Secretary of
State under the Great Seal of Mississippi. It could not thereafter dispute its liability for acts done by it in its corporate
name nor be denied the right to sue in that name.
As the Circuit Court of Appeals proceeded on different
grounds as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, its judgment must be reversed, alld the case remanded, with directions to that court to set aside its own judgment, and for such
further proceedings touching the merits of the case as may
be consistent with this opinion and with law
Reversed.

RIVERDALE COTTON MILLS, PETITIONER v. ALAMANUFACTURING COMPANY.
BAMA AND GEORGIA
I
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 194. Argued April 5,6,1905.-Decided May 8, 190.
A Federal court exercising a jurisdiction apparently belonging to it, may
thereafter, by ancillary suit, mqure whether that jurisdiction m fact
existed, and may protect the title which it has decreed as against all
parties to the original suit and prevent any of such parties from relitigating questions of right already determined.
Where parties litigate m a Federal court .whose jurisdiction is invoked

