OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

companies were not bound to furnish, in the absence of a
statute, to all independent express companies, equal facilities
for doing an express business upon their passenger trams.
These observations answer the contention of plaintiff that
defendant, by erecting the wharf and using it in the way it
does, has thereby devoted its property to a public use, and
that it has thereby granted to the public an interest in such
use, within the principle laid down in Munn v Illinos, 94
U. S. 113. It has not devoted its wharf to the use of the
public in so far as to thereby grant to every vessel the right to
occupy its private property upon making compensation to
defendant for the exercise of such right. The reasons we have
already endeavored to give.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals and of the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Florida are reversed,
and the case remanded to the latter court for further proceedings not inconsistent, with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissents.

AH SIN v. WITTMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT IN AND FOR THE CITY AND
COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 245. Submitted April 28,1905.-DecIded May 29,1906.
Where the petitioner contends that a crimmal-law of the State is unconstitutional because it denies a class to which he belongs the equal protection of the law, not on the ground that it is unconstitutional on its
face, or discriminatory in tendency and ultimate actual operation, but
because it is made so by the manner of its administration, in being
enforced exclusively against such class, it is a matter of proof and no
latitude of intention will be indulged, and it is not sufficient to simply

4.11 SIN v. WITMAN.
198 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

allege such exclusive enforcement but it must also appear that the conditions to which the law was directed do not exclusively exist among
that class and that there are other offenders against whom the law
is not enforced.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. George D Collins for plaintiff in errorAs the ordinance is enforced only against Chinese persons
it violates the Fourteenth Amendment and is void. Yicc Wo
v Hopksns, 118 U. S. .356, and cases cited.
The state court has so construed the ordinance that it makes
criminal the innocent visit to a place, lawlfully barricaded and
barred against trespassing, by the police, and where, without
the privit;' of the visitor, the articles specified are exposed
to view, there being present three or more persons. The
right of liberty that a person may visit any place where he is
lawfully invited is one which cannot be infringed, except
where necessary in the legitimate exercise of the police power
of the State. This power cannot be used to prohibit or punish what is entirely innocent or indifferent; it must be exercised in subordination to the Federal Constitution. Lawton
v Steele, 152 U. S. 137, Mugler v Kansas, 123 U 8. 661,
Health Dept. v Trnity Church, 145 N. Y 321, In re Tacbbs,
98 N. Y 105, St. Louts v. Roche, 31 S. W Rep. 915, Railway
Co. v Smith, 173 U. S. 689; Minnesota v Barber, 136 U. .
"320; Gulf &c. Ry. Co. v Ellis, 165 U. S. 155.
It is the constitutional right of a person to bar, barricade
and protect his premises against entry by police officers who
have no right to enter and who are nothing but trespassers.
What is done in a barred and bolted house is not in the

presence of a man outside. Indeed, not even an officer can,
without a warrant, break an outer door to arrest persons
within, who are merely engaged in unlawful gaming. 1 Bish.
New Crm. Proc. § 197, McLennan v Rwhardson, 15 Gray; 74.
The ordinance is unconstitutional because of its discrimination in favor of the three persons who visit the designated

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

house or room, their visit is not unlawful, but the visit of the
plaintiff in error, while the other three are present, is made
criminal and punishable, thus depriving him of the equal
protection of the- laws.
While an ordinance similar to this was held valid in Re
Ah Cheung, 136 California, 678, these points were not decided,
and the court erred in assuming that police officers have the
legal right to enter upon private premises to ascertain whether
illegal gambling is being carried on. A police officer, as such,
has no right to enter on private premises unless in the execution of process, or to make an arrest for felony, or to prevent
an escape;. manifestly not to discover, or suppress, or make
an, arrest for gambling where he has no warrant or process.
Cases supra and § 86, Penal Code of California.
The system of police espionage prevailing in Europe would
not be lawful in the United States, nor in England, it would
be unlawful to issue a search-warrant for the purpose of obtaining evidence of crime, by way of discovery Cooleys
Const, Lim., 7th ed., 424, 431 ,.Boyd v United States, 116 U S.
630.
Whatever may be the opinion of the state court ths court
.will place its own construction upon the ordinance, an& will
not interpolate, in order to make it valid, a provision which
i does not contain. Yick Wo v Hopkins, 118 U S. 356.
Mr L. F By-ington and Mr I. JIarftsfor defendant in error"
As to the point that the ordinance is unconstitutional because it is enforced against Chinese only It may be that as
far as is known the Chinese are the onl:r persons who have
thus far violated this ordinance. It does not appear that others
offended and were not punished.
MR.JuSTimc

McKFNA delivered the opinion of the court.

Error to the judgment of the Superior Court of the city and
county of San Francisco, State of California, discharging a
writ of habeas corpus.

AR SIN v. WITTMAN.
198 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

Plaintiff in error filed a petition in said court, alleging that
he was a subject of the Emperor of China, and was restrained
of his liberty by defendant in error, who was the chief of police
of the city and county of San Francisco, under a judgment of
imprisonment rendered in the police court of said city for the
violation of one of its ordinances. The ordinance is as follows:
"Prohibiting the exposure of gambling tables or implements
in a room barred or barricaded or protected in any manner to make it difficult of access or ingress to police
officers, when three or more persons are present.; or the
visiting of a room barred and barricaded .or protected
in any manner to make it difficult .of access or ingress to.
police, in which gambling tables or implements are exhibited, or exposed, when three or more persons are
present.
"Be it ordained by the people of the city and. county of
San Francisco as follows:
"SEc. 1. It shall be unlawful for any. person within the
limits of the city and county of San Francisco to exhibit -or
expose to view in any barred or barricaded house or r6om, or
in any place built or protected in a manner to make -it difficult
of access or ingress to police officers when three or more persons are present, any cards, dice, dominoes, fan-tan table 6 r
layout, or any part of such layout, or any gambling imple-.
ments whatsoever.
"SEc. 2. It shall be unlawful for any person within the
limits of the city and county of San Francisco to visit or resort
to any such barred or barricaded -house or room -or other place
built or protected in a manner to make it difficult of access or
ingress to police officers, where any cards, dice, dominoes, fantan table or layout, or. any part of sucl layout, or any gambling
implements whatsoever are exhibited or exposed to view when
-three or more persons are present.
"SEc. 3. Every person who shall violate any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be deemed'guilty of misdemeanor,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opumon of the Court.

198 U.I

and upon conviction thereof -shall be punished by a line no
to exceed five hundred ($500.00) dollars, or by imprisonmen
in the county jail for not more than six (6) months, or by botl
such fine and imprisonment.
"SEc. 4. Thisoordinance shall take effect and be in force on
and after its passage."
The complaint in the police court charges a violation of the
ordinance by the plaintiff in error. The petition for a writ of
habeas corpus alleges that the ordinance violates section one of
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, in that it deprives plaintiff in error of the~equal protection of the laws, because it is enforced solely and exclusively
against persons of the Chinese race, and in that it "unjustly and
arbitrarily discriminates in favor of certain visitors and also
in favor of certain persons resorting to the house, room or place
referred to in said ordinance, as well as in favor of such persons
and visitors as resort to or visit such house or room or place
when not barred or barricaded or protected in a manner to
make the same difficult of access or ingress to police officers."
These objections, it is alleged, were made by him in the police
court and overruled.
The petition also alleges that plaintiff in error is, by the
ordinance, deprived of his liberty without due process of law,
in that he is prohibited thereby from visiting, innocently and
for a lawfulpurpose, the house or room or place mentioned in
said. ordinance.
It is also alleged that .the ordinance is in contravention of
the treaty between the United States and China.
Upon filing the petition a writ of habeas corpus was issued,
returnable before the court on the twenty-second of March,
_1904, and petitioner admitted to bail in the sum of $"0.
...
The following is the order of the court dismissing the writ
and remanding the petitioner to custody"
"This matter came on regularly for hearing this 28th .day
of March A. D. 1904, the petitioner being represented by his
counsel and the people being represented by the district attor-

AH SIN v. WITTMAN.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ney; whereupon it was stipulated and agreed in open court by
counsel for the people and by counsel for the petitioner that
the facts-are as set forth in the petition on file herein for the
writ of labeas corpus. The cause was then argued by counsel
on the points stated m the said petition and was thereupon
submitted to the court for its decision and judgment; and the
court being fully advised in the matter does now upon the
authority of. Matter of Ah Cheung (136 California, 678), dismiss the writ of habeas corpu-s heretofore issued herein and
remand the petitioner to the custody of the chief of police of
the city and county of San Francisco. Ordered accordingly.
The petitioner reservedan exception to the'judgment."
Plaintiff in error's petition presents the question of the constitutionality of the ordinance under which he was convicted.
Section one makes it unlawful for any person to exhibit any
gambling implements whatsoever in any "barred or barricaded
house or rooi i or other place built or protected in a manner to
make it difficult, of access or ingress to police officers, where
any cards, dice, dominoes, fan-tan table or layout, or any part
of such layout, or any gambling implements whatsoever, are
exhibited or exposed to view when -three or more persons are
present."
Section two makes it unlawful to visit or resort -to such
barricaded house or room.
" The ordinance received consideration in the Matter of Ah
CTheung by the Supreme Court of the State of California. 136
California, 678. It was decided thatit refers "only to places
which are specially'barred and barricaded against intrusion by
officers of the law, so that illegal gambling may be protected
from discovery' Rightly construed, the words 'barred and
barricaded' do not include an ordinary private residence or
room, where doors are sometimes locked or bolted in the ordinary method. Neither should it be construed to mean an attempted prevention of ordinary innocent games played with
cards, dice or dominoes."
The suppression of gambling is concededly within the police

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Couit.

198 U. S.

powers of a State, and legislation prohibiting'it, or acts which
may tend to or facilitate it, will not be interfered with by the
court unless such legislation be a "clear, unmistakable infringement of rights secured by the fundamental law" Booth
v Illinois, 184 U- S. 425, 429, Otis v Parker, 187 U. S. 606.
As interpreted by the Supreme Court of the State, the ordinance cannot be so characterized.
It is contended that the ordinance makes criminal "the mere
act of innocently visiting such a house or room where the
visitor had no knowledge and nothing whatever to do with
the barring or barricading of the premises or the prescribed
articles." It is hence contended by plaintiff in error that "he
is deprived of his liberty without due process of law, in that
he is prohibited thereby from visiting, innocently and for a
lawful purpose, the house or room or place mentioned m said
ordinance." Granting, for argument's sake, that ole might
visit innocently a barred or barricaded house or room where
gambling implements are exhibited or exposed to view, and,
if as plaintiff in error alleges in his petition, that he was convicted, notwithstanding he established that he had innocently
visited the house mentioned in the charge against him, we are.
not at liberty to declare the ordinance unconstitutional. Besides, his remedy for that ruling was not by habeas corpus. - It
was by appeal to the Superior Court, which the Penal Code of
the State gave him. We may observe he could have raised
on such appeal the questions he now raises and have them
reviewed by' this court.
Plaintiff in error avers "That said ordinance and the provisions thereof are enforced and executed by the said municipality of San Francisco, and said State of California, solely and
exclusively against persons of the. Chinese race, and not otherwise." The contention is that Chinese persons are thereby
denied the equal protection of the law in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment .of the Constitution of the United
States. Yick Wo v Hopkins, 118 U S. 356, is cited to sustain
the contention. And, it is further contended that the fact of

AR SIN v. WITTMAN.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a partial execution of the ordinance is admitted by the order
of the Superior Court, wherein it is recited that upon the
presentation of the case "It was stipulated and agreed in open
court by counsel for the people and by counsel for the petitioner
that the facts are as set forth in the petition on file herein for
the writ of habeas corpus." There is a misunderstanding between counsel as to what was intended by the stipulation.
Counsel for defendant in error contends it was not intended to
admit a discrimination in the administration of the law, but
to submit the case on such facts as would test and cause a
review of the Matter of Ah Cieung, supra. This seems to be
supported by -the order of the court taken as a whole, and it
is the understanding of the court we are to ascertain. In other
words, we are to ascertain what questions of law and fact were
submitted to the court. It cannot be certainly said that the
court regarded the fact of discrimination to have been admitted, for it rested its-decision on the authority of the Cheung
case. The court indeed may have regarded the allegation of
the petition as lacking in certainty of averment, and hence not
bringing the case within the ruling of the Yick Wo case. That
case concerned the use of property for lawful and legitimate
purposes. The case at bar is concerned with gambling, to
suppress which is recognized as a proper exercise of governmental authority, and one which would have no incentive in
race or class prejudice or administration inrace or class discrimination. In the Yick Wo case there was not a mere allegation that the ordinance attacked was enforced against the
Chinese only, but it was shown that not only the petitioner in
that case, but two hundred of his countrymen, applied for
licenses, and were refused,. and that all the petitions of those
not Chinese, with one exception, were granted. The averment
in the case at bar is that the ordinance is enforced "solely and
exclusively against persons of the Chinese race and not otherwise." There is no averment that the conditions and practices
to which the ordinance was directed did not exist exclusively
among the Chinese, or that there were other offenders against

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

the ordinance than the Chinese as to whom it was not enforced. No latitude of intention should be indulged in a case
like this. There should be certainty to every intent. Plaintiff-m error seeks to set aside a criminal law of the State, not
on the ground that it is unconstitutional on its face, not that
it is discrimnhtory in tendency and ultimate actual operation
as the ordinance was which was passed on in the Yick Wo
case, but that it was made so by the manner of its admmistration. This is a matter of proof, and no fact should be omitted
to make it out completely, when the power of a Federal court
is invoked to interfere with the course of criminal justice of
a State.
We think, therefore, the judgment of the Superior Court
should be and it is hereby
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM

dissents.

THE SUPREME LODGE, KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS, v.
MEYER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 234. Argued Apri 28, 1905.-Decided Nay 29,1905.
A certificate of insurance on the life of a member residing in New York in
a mutual association was executed by the officers in Illinois; it provided
that it should first take effect as a binding obligation when accepted
by the member, and the member accepted it m New York. It contamed a provision that it was to be null and void in case of suicide of
insured and also one waiving all right to prevent physicians from testifying as to knowledge derived professionally. After the insured died
the association defended an action brought in New York on the ground
of suicide and blaimed that §§ 834, 836, N. Y. Code 'Civil Procedure,
under which the court excluded testimony of physicians in regard to condition of deceased, were inapplicable because the policy was an Illinois

