HARLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

HARLEY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 196. Argued April 6, 1905.-Decldea May 8,190.

In order to give the Court of Claims jurisdiction under the act of Mirch 3,
1887, the demand sued on must be founded on a convention between
the parties-a coming together of minds-and contracts or obligations
implied by law from torts do not meet this condition. Russell v. United
States, 182 U. S. 516, 530.
An employA of the Bureau of Printing and Engraving, who at his own cost
and in his own time perfected and patented a device for registering impressions in connection with printing presses, which with his knowledge
and consent was used for many years by the Bureau, under orders of the
Secretary of the Treasury, and who during that period never made any
demand for royalties, cannot, under the circumstances of this case, recover such royalties m the Court of Claims on the ground .that a contract existed between hun and the Government, because, prior to the
use of the device by the Government, the Chief of the Bureau promised
to have his rights to the invention protected.

sued in the Court of Claims to recover the sum
of $102,000, for the use, during the six years preceding the
commencement of the suit, of a device invented by th6 appellant for registering impressions in connection with printing
presses. The Court of Claims dismssed the petition. The
findings of the Court of Claims are as follows:
"II. In November, 1869, the Secretary of the Treasury
determined that certain valuable securities should not be
printed in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing until proper
and reliable registers should be attached to the presses. While
the Chief of the Bureau was endeavoring to devise and procure
a trustworthy form of register, the claimant brought to him the
drawings of a device which he had invented, being substantially the device described in the foregoing letters patent. The
Chief of the Bireau ordered a register to be immediately made
after the claimant's device. At the time of giving such order
he understood that the device was the claimant's invention.
"The register so ordered being completed, and tried and
found satisfactory, the Chief of the Bureau proposed to take
the claimant to the Secretary of the Treasury that he might
APPELLANT

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

explain it to him. The claimant thereupon objected that the
invention was not yet patented, an& that he wished, before
exhibiting it, to obtain a patent for his individual protection.
The Chief of the Bureau replied, 'Certainly; I will see that you
are protected.' The claimant, then tacitly consenting, was
taken before the Secretary, and explained to him the operation
of the register, and the Secretary was at the same time informed that this was the register which the claimant had
invented. The Secretary approved the form of xegister, and
directed that such registers be made and attached to the
presses in the Bureau.
"Before such registers were manufactured the claimant
remonstrated to the effect that he wished first -to secure a
patent. The Chief of the Bureau replied that he would see
the claimant protected and would get hun a patent attorney
who would explain the law, to hun. This the Chief of the
Bureau did, and. the attorney so selected proceeded tQ procure
the patent before set forth, the clapnant, not the defendants,
paying him and the costs and expenses thereof. The attorney
so selected at the same time informed the claimant that the
manufacture and use of registers in the Bureau would not
interfere with or prevent the procurement of the-patent.
"After being so advised, the claimant raised no further
objection to the registers being manufactured and' used, and
tacitly acquiesced in the same.
"There was no agreement or understanding between the
parties In regard to royalty or the payment of remuneration
for the use of the claimant's invention in the Government's
printing and engraving other than such as may be inferred
from the preceding conversations. On the part of the claimant it was supposed and un~derstood that he would be entitled
to compensation, and' that it would be allowed and paid by
the Secretary of the Treasury But on the part of the Secretary
and Chief of the Bureau it was supposed and understood that
the claimant, being an employ6 of the Treasury Department,
would neither expect nor demand remuneratibn.

HARLEY v. UNITED STATES
198 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

"III. That ever since the issuance of said letters patent the
defendant has constructed, and has used continuously, from
the date of said letters patent, to wit, March 1, 1870, upon and
in connection with plate printing presses .used by the defendant in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and ii the
Treasury building, the device aforesaid, so patented to the
claimant, for the purpose of registering the number of impressions made by the various plate-printing presses, both
hand and steam, efnployed and used by the defendant in the
said Bureau of Engraving and Printing and in the Treasury
Department building.
"IV The claimant at the time of the making of his invention before described was assistant master machinist in the
Bureau of Engraving and Printing. He was never assigned
to the duty of making inventions, and it was not a part of hisduty to do so,.and the invention before described was made
within his own time and exclusively at his own cost, and was
a completed invention, properly and sufficiently set forth in
drawings when first brought to the Chief of the Bureau, as set
forth in finding II.

"V The defendants were, in the undisturbed use of the
claimant's invention from July 24, 1878, to July 24, 1884,by
attaching such registers to a great number of their presses.
During tlhat period the claimant made no objection to such
use of his invention, and failed to give notice to the Secretary
of the Treasury or the Chief of the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing that he would demand royalty or remuneration therefor.
"VI. The average nunber of presses with claimant's device
used by the defendants between July 24, 1878, and July 24,
1884, was 200 per day, covering 1,802 working days."
My W W Dodgqe and Mr A. A. Hoehling,Jr., for appellant:
There were parties competent to contract and there was
proper subject matter for contract. Under ยง 2, act of July 11,
1862, 12 Stat. 532, ยง 3577, Rev Stat., the Secretary of the

OCTOBTER TERMI 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

198 U. S.

Treasury had full authority to act through agents or subordinate officers, as indeed the various executive officers must
do in such matters from the very nature of the case. The
findings of the court below show that the Secretary approved
the form of register and directed that such registers be made
and attached to-the presses in the Bureau.
Thus it appears that this was the immediate and direct
act of the. Secretary of the Treasury in his official capacity,
-and with full knowledge of claimant's rights in the premises
and within his statutory powers.
Before appellant consented to show his device to the Secretary, and again after'he had so shown it (under an assurance
of protection), but before consenting to the use of the registers,
.appellant demanded protection, and declared that he wanted
first to secure his patent. Not until protection was a second
time promised did he assent to use of his invention. Sin~e
then the United States has constructed and used continuously
from the date of appellant's patent, the device so patented
to him, and was, throughout the entire period covered by this
claim, in the undisturbed use of his invention.
A party is not under obligation to renew or repeat notice
of his rights. The patent is itself notice to all the world.
The rule is the same as in a suit based upon infringement of a
patent, instead of upon an implied license to use the patent.
Stearns-Roger Mjg. Co. v Brown, 114 Fed. Rep. 939, 944;
Sessons v Romadka, 145 U. S. 29.
There is no pretense of lack of knowledge of appellant's
rights, or of lack of notice from him and demand for protection and the protection demanded was against "the use of his
invention without compensation by the Government and not
protection against private parties.
The law implies, compensation for property taken to the
use of the Government, just as it does in the case of property
taken or used by an individual without specific agreement as
to compensation. 2 Blackstone, 443, United States v Burns,
12 Wall. 246, .Carmmeyerv Newton, 94 U. S. 225; ยง 22, Patent

HARLEY v. UNITED) STATES.
198 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Act, now ยง4884, Rev Stat., United States v McKeever, 14
C. C1. 396, aff'd by this court without opinion. See 14 Brodix's
Pat. Cas. 414, 437, James v. Campbell, 104 U. S. 356, United
States v Great FallsMfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645, Great Falls Mfg.
Co. v United States, 124 U. S. 581; Hollister v B. & B. Mfg.
Co., 113 U. S. 59; United States v Palmer, 128 U. S. 262;
United States v Fire Arms Co., 156 U. S. 552; United States
v Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, Russell v UnitedStates, 182 U. S. 516.
If a demand for compensation was not made in terms, appellant was by coercion prevented from so making it. The
command of a superior to an inferior may amount to coercion,
3 Wash. C. 0. 209, 220; 12 Mete. (Mass.) 56, 1 Blatch., 0. C,
549; 13 How -115.
The command of a master to his servant or a principal to
his agent may amount to coercion. 13 Missouri, 246, 13
Missouri, 137, 340; 3 Gush. (Mass.) 279; 11 Mete. (Mass.) 66,
5 Mississippi, 304, 14 Alabama, 365, 22 Vermont, 32; 2 Den.
(N. Y.) 341, 14 Johns (N. Y.), 119.
A party who fails to make direct demand under such coercion
is no more to lose his right to compensation than is he bound
to perform a contract procured under like coercion.
That claimant was in Government employ does not alter
the case. Solomons v United States, 137 U S. 342: Gill v
United States, 160 U S. 426.
Inventing or devising such a.registex was no part of appellant's duty He was not assigned to such duty He did it
wholly out of working hours; at his own home, at his own
expense, and patented it at his own expense.
The facts found bring the case clearly within the doctrine
of the cases cited. The cases relied upon by defendant, and
the cases cited .by the court below, do not sustain the decision
rendered herein. McClurg v Kingsland, 1 How 202; Pitcher
v United States, 1 C. Cl. 7, Solomons v United States, 137
U. S. 342; McAleer v United States, 150 U. S. 424, Lane &
Bodley Co. v Locke, 150 U. S. 193, Schillinger v United States,
155 U. S. 163, Keyes v Eureka Mining Co., 158 U. S. 150;

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. 8.

Kelton v United States, 32 0. C1. 314, Gill v United States, 160
U. S. 426, 437, can all be distinguished.
Mr Special Attorney Charles C. Binney, with whom Mr.
Assistant Attorney General Pradt was on the brief, for the
United States.
-MR.
JUSTICE McKENNA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The question m the case is whether, on these facts, a contract arose between the United States and the appellant,
whereby the United States promised to pay him for the use
of hig device.
We held in Russell v United States, 182 U S.516, 530, that
m order to give the Court of Claims jurisdiction, under the act
of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 505, c. 359, defining claims of which
the Court of Claims had jurisdiction, the demand sued on must
be founded on "a convention between the parties---' a coming
together of minds.'" And we excluded, as not meeting this
condition, those contracts or obligations that the law is said
to imply from a tort. Schillinger v United States, 155 U. S.
163, United States v Berdan Fire-Arms Mfg. .Co., 156 U. S.
552.
In the case at bar the Court of Claims finds that the appellant "supposed and understood that he would be entitled to
compensation, and that it would be allowed and paid by the
Secretary of the Treasury;" but it also finds that-" on the part
of the Secretary and Chief of Bureau (Engraving and Printing) it was supposed and. understood that the claimant (appellant) being. an employ6 of the Treasury Department would
neither expect nor demand remuneration." That there was
"a coming together of minds" is therefore excluded by the
findings. And, the use of the device cannot give a right independent of the understanding under which it was used. The
appellant should have been explicit in his demand. He con-

HARLEY v. UNITED STATES.
198 U. S.

Opmon of the Court.

tends that he was, but manifestly he was not, or the curious
opposition between his expectation and that of the Secretary
of the Treasury and Chief of Bureau could not have occurred.
And we cannot assent to the suggestion that he "was by
coercion prevented" from making a demand "in terms" by
his suburdinate position. How long must we suppose such
coercion lasted and that he could have permitted a nsunderstanding of his purpose? Six years passed, and the Chief of
Bureau with whom the negotiations were made went out of
office, another succeeded. No demand was made of either
for compensation. Further time passed, and other Chiefs of
Bureau succeeded. There was a succession of Secretaries of
the Treasury; no demand was made of any of them. His first
demand was the petition in this case, over fourteen years from
his first interview with the Secretary of the Treasury This
delay cannot be overlooked or interpreted favorably to appellant's contention. He sues for $102,600, and this does not
include the royalties that he contends he was entitled to for
the first six years the deiice was used. He claims a royalty
of twenty-five cents a day on an average of two hundred
machines-that is, $50 a day He was an employ6 of the
Government at a modest salary, and we cannot conceive there
was no inducement in $50 a day to an explicit demand of his
rights, or that he was willing to wait, or felt himself coerced
to wait, for their realization for fourteen years, and even to
lose compensation for six years by the operation of -the statute
of limitations. The rights of the Government are obvious.
The contention of the appellant forces on it a liability that it
might not have taken. It was given no election of the terms
upon which it would use the register, or whether it would use
it at all. Of course, this argument is based on the fact that
there was no coming together of the minds of the parties, or,
as expressed by the findings of the Court of Claims, that "it
was sfipposed and understood" by the officers of the Government that 'ppellant "would neither expect nor demand, remuneration." And this fact distinguishes the case from Mc-

OCTOBER TERM,

1904.

Syllabus.

198 U. S.

Keever v United States, 14 C. Cl. 396, affirmed by this court;
also from United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, and the other
cases cited by appellant.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissents.

BOARD OF TRADE -OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO v.
CHRISTIE Gk-AIN AND STOCK COMPANY
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

L. A. KINSEY COMPANY v. BOARD OF TRADE OF
THE CITY OF CHICAGO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 224, 280. Argued April 20, 24,25, I905.--Delded May 8,190.
The Clhcago Board of Trade collects at its own. expense quotations of prices
offered and accepted for wheat, cor and provisions in its exchange and
distributes them under contract to persons approved by it and under
certain conditions. In a suit brought by it to restrain parties from using
the quotations obtained and used without authority of the Board, defendants contended that as the Board of Trade permitted, and the quotations related to, transactions for the pretended buying of gram without
any intention of actually receiving, delivering or paying for the same,
that the Board violated the Illinois bucket -shop statute and there were
no property rights in the quotations which the court could protect, and
that the giving out of the quotations to certain persons makes them free
to all. Held, that
Even if such pretended buying and selling is permitted by the Board of
Trade it is entitled to have its collection of quotations protected by the
law, and to keep the work which it has done to itself, nof does it lose
its property rights in the quotations by'communicating them to certain
persons, even though many, in confidential and contractual relations

