ALLEN v. ARGUIMVAU.
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

two acts, and do the first because he hoped it would give him
a chance to.do the.last.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA and MR. JUSTICE

DAY concur in

the result.

ALLEN v. ARGUIMIAU.,
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 523. Submitted April 3, 190.-Decided Mlay 1, 19W6.
Where the judgment of the state court rests on two grounds, one involving
a Federal question and the other not, and it does not appear on which
of the two the judgment was based and the ground, independent of a
Federal qdestion, is sufficient in itself to sustain it, this court will not
take jurisdiction.
The certificate of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the State on
the allowance of the writ of error that the judgment denied a title, right
or immunity specially set up under the statutes of the United States,
cannot in itself confer jurisdiction on this court.
Plaintiff in error contended as defendant in the state court, which overruled
the plea, that his notes were void because given in pursuance of a
contract which involved the violation of §§ 3390, 3393, 3397, Rev.
Stat., providing for the collection of revenue on manufactured tobacco.
Held, that as an individual can derive no personal right under those.
sections to enforce repudiation of his-notes, even though they might be
illegal and void as against public policy, the defense did not amount to
the setting up by, and decision against, the maker.of the notes of a right,
privilege or immunity under a statute of the United States, within the
meaning of § 709, Rev. Stat., and the writ of error was dismissed.

THIS was an action upon two promissory notes for twenty-five
hundred dollars each, payable to Horace R. Kelly, endorsed to
the Horace R. Kelly & Company, Limited, and by.that company endorsed to the firm of which Argumbau was 8urvivor.
Many pleas were interposed in defense, and, among them,
several filed March 24, 1900, and several filed February 2,
1903. By the first of these pleas, defeftdant below, plaintiff
in error here, averred "that on or about the eighteenth day

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U.S.

of March, A. D. 1893, Horace R. Kelly, claiming to be a manufacturer of cigars, agreed with John Jay Philbrick, during his
lifetime, that if he, the said John Jay Philbrick, together with
George W Allen and Charles B. Peildleton, would give to him
their four joint and several promissory notes for two thousand
*five hundred dollars each, two of the said notes payable in
one year from the date thereof and two payable i two years
frpm the date thereof, he, the said Horace R. Kelly, would
hhve cigars manufactured in Key West, Florida, and in no
o er place, according to the terms of his contract with the
Havana & Key West Cigar Company, Limited, that the- said
coi fract referred to was a contract between the said Horace
R. Kelly and one Max T. Rosen, the president of the Havana
&"IKey West Cigar Company, Limited, and in said contract the
sawid Horace R. Kelly bound himself to have the said Horace
R. Kelly Company, Limited, a corporation then existing,
judicially -dissolved and after said dissolution, together with
himself and others, to organize a company .under -the laws of
the State of West Virginia, to be kown as the Horace R.
,Kelly Company; that the said Horace R. Kelly Company,
when so formed, was to enter into an agreement-with the
Havana & Key West Cigar Company, Limited, whereby it,
in its factory at Key West, Florida, was to manufacture cigars
and to fill all orders for cigars secured by the said Horace R.
Kelly Company, provided such orders should be approved by
the president or manager of the-Havana & Key West Cigar
Company, Limited. And it was then arfd there understood
and agreed by and between the said Horae R. Kelly and thesaid Max T. Rosen,'the president of the Havana & Key West
Cigar Company, Limited, that the cigars so manufactured as
aforesaidby the Havana & Key West Cigar Company, Limited,
.at its factory at Key West, Florida, to fill the order for cigars
secured by the said Horace R. Kelly Company were to be
removed from said factory or place where said cigars were
made without being packed in boxes on which should be
stamped, indented, burned or impressed into each box; in a

ALLEN v. ARGUIMBAU.
198 U. S.

. 151

Statement of the Case.

legible and durable manner, the number of cigars contained
therein and the number of the manufactory in which the said
cigars had been manufactured. That at the time of the making of said contract and understanding and agreement between the said Horace R. Kelly and the said Max T. Rosen,
president of the Havana & Key-West Cigar Company, Limited,
the laws of the United States regulating the manufacture,
removal and sale of cigars provided that, before any cigars
were removed from any manufactory or place where cigars
were made, they should be packed in boxes and that there
should be stamped, indented, burned or impresseA into each
box in a legible and durable manner, the number of cigars
contained therein and the number of the manufactory where
said cigars were made, and affixed a penalty for the noncompliance therewith, and the said promissory notes sued on
are two of the notes made and delivered to the said Horace B.
Kelly in consideration of the promises and understandings and
agreements aforesaid.and are wholly void, all of which the said
pliintiffs well knew at the time of the, alleged transfer of the
said notes to them, and this the defendant is ready to verify"
The second and third pleas were so nearly identical with
the first that they need not be set forth. The pleas of February 2, 1903, set up the same defenses in substance, coupled
with the allegation that at the time of the endorsement each
of the endorsees had notice of the contract alleged to have
formed the consideration of the notes. All these pleas were
separately demurred to, special grounds being assig.ed to this
effect; that neither of the pleas stated facts constituting any
defense, that the consideration of the notes sued on was the
promise of Horace R. Kelly to have cigars manufactured in
Key West, and neither of the pleas alleged a breach of the
promise, that neither of the pleas averred that the alleged
proposed contract between the two companies in the plea
stated, and alleged to be illegal, was ever consummated or
executed or anything done thereuiider; that if cigars weFe
manufactured in K~y West, under the said contract bptween

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

198 U. S

the .said two companies in the said pleas stated, the defendant
and his intestate derived the same benefit and received the
same consideration for the said notes, whether said contract
was legal or illegal.
The demurrers were severally sustained, the case went to
judgment in favor of plaintiff, and was taken on error to the
Supreme Court of Florida. The errors assigned there; so far
as these pleas were concerned, were simply that the trial court
erred in sustaining the demurrer in each instance. The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment, whereupon a writ of error
from this court was allowed by the Chief Justice of that court,
who certified, in substance, that the judgment denied " a title,
right, privilege or immunity specially set up and claimed by
the plaintiff in error under the statutes of the United States
of America."
.Six errors were assigned in this court, namely, that the-state
court erred in holding that the demurrer to the first plea of
March 24, 1900, was properly sustained, and that the plea
constituted no defense under section 3397 of the Revised
Statutes; and as to the second plea and section 3393, Revised Statutes; and as to the third plea and section 3390,
Revised Statutes; and in so holding as to the fourth plea, filed
February 2, 1903, and section 3397, Revised Sthtutes; and as
to the fifth plea of that date, and section 3393, Revised
Statutes; and as to the sixth plea of that date, and section
3390, Revised Statutes.
The case was submitted on motions to dismiss or affirm.
Mr Rwchard H. Iggett for plaintiff in error°
This court has jurisdiction., A Federal question is involved.
A right construction of §§ 3390 et seq., of Rev Stat., invalidated these notes, and the decision of .the state court was
against the immunity from liability so claimed. Dubugqua &
Si. C R. R. Co. v Rwhmond, 15 Wall. 3, Railway Co. v.
Renwke, 102 U S.180; Anderson v Carhns, 135 'U. S.483,
AfCormsck v Bank,. 165 U. S.545, 546.

ALLEN v. ARGUIMBAU.
198 U. S.

Argument for Defendant m Error.

While the certificate of the Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of the State could not give jurisdiction to this court, it
may be resorted to, in the absence of an opinion, to show
that a Federal question, otherwise presented in the record, was
actually passed upon by the court. Gull &c. R. Co. v Howes,
183 U S. 66.
Mr H. Bisbee and Mr George C. Bedell for defendant in
error,
As to the question of jurisdiction.
It was proper for the state Supreme Court to decide that as
the part of the plea setting up an intention in the future to
violate a statute could not-be legally proven, it was not necessary for it to decide whether the alleged illegal part of a
contract made the. notes void or not.
This court is without jurisdiction for the further reason that
the plea does not set up any personal right, or personal right
of property under any act of Congress, but sets up a right of
a third party to-wit: the United States to have the revenue
laws enforced. This proposition is maintained in the following cases: Austin v Anderson, 7 Wall. 694, 6 Rose's Notes,
1066, Long v Converse, 91 U S. 114, Conde v York, 168 U. S.
648. Setting up a title in the United States by way of defense is not claiming a personal interest affecting the subject
in litigation. Hale v Games, 22 How 160.
Under § 25, judiciary act, it is not every misconstruction
of an act of Congress, which can be reexamined. The decision
must have. been against seme right, etc., so claimed under
such act. Montgomery v Hernandez,.12 Wheat. 129. And
see also Udell v Davidson, 7 How 769; Walworth v Kneeland,
15 How 348, Railroad Co. v Morgan, 160 U S. 288, Railroad
Co. v Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 557, Gill v Oliver, 11 How 529,
peculiarly applicable.
The mere abstract right, if any, in the makers of the notes
to have the Federal statute complied with without alleging
any injury to them, is unimportant, and- a moot question.

OCTOBER TERDI, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

Hooker v Burr, 194 U S. 419, Dibble v Land Co., 163 U S.
69, Eustzs v Bolles, 150 U S. 361, Klinger v Missour, 13
Wall. 257
Although the promise of the payee in an independent contract, or the act to be done as the consideration of a promissory
note, is a violation of an act of Congress, still the note is not
void, unless the act of Congress expressly declares the note
void, which is not this case. Tiedeman on Commercial Paper,
§§ 178, 280; 21 Wall. 241, 248, 4 Ency of Law, 2d ed., 191,
192; Harms v Rummels, 12 How 79; 5 Rose's Notes, 70.
In such a case as this no one can raise the question but the
United States. Thompson v St. Nicholas Bank, 146 U S.
240, 250; Armstrong v Bank, 133 U S. 467, Armstrong v
Toler, 11 Wheat. 258.
And assuming that Kelly's contract was performed, the
makers of the notes after such performance, and after receiving
the consideration expected, cannot plead as a defense that
such contract was illegal or void. Brooks v Martin, 2 Wall.
70; Kimbro v Burdett, 22 How 256, and see also 11 Wheat.
258. 2 Rose's Notes, 482.
The asserted Federal element was too remote and frivolous.
Blythe v Hinckley, 180 U S. 333.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The only ground on which our jurisdiction can be maintamed is that defendant specially set up or claimed some title,
right, privilege or immunity under a statute of the United
States, which was denied by the state court. The Supreme
Court of Florida gave no opinion, and, therefore, we are left
to conjecture as to the grounds on which the pleas were held
to be bad, but if the judgment rested on two grounds, one
involving a Federal question and the other not, or if it does
not appear on which of two grounds the judgment was based,
and the ground independent of a Federal question is sufficient

ALLEN v. ARGUIMBAU.
198 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

in itself to sustain it, this court will not take jurisdiction.
Dibble v Bellingham Bay Land Company, 163 U S. 63, Klinger
v Missour, 13 Wall. 257, Johnson v Rusk, 137 U S. 300.
And we are not inclined to hold that if in the view of the
state court the promise of Kelly to manufacture cigars at Key
West was the consideration of the notes and had been-performed, and the makers could not defend on the ground that
it was contemplated between Kelly and Rosen that the cigars
should be removed without compliance with the revenue laws,
a Federal question was decided in sustaining the demurrers.
to the pleas.
But, apart from that, no title, right, privilege or mununity
under a statute of the United States, within the intent and
meaning of section 709 of the Revised Statutes, was specially
set up or claimed by defendant and decided against him.
Sections 3390, 3393, and 3397 of the Revised Statutes are,
regulations to secure the collection of the taxes imposed by
chapter 7, Tit. 35, and defendant could derive no personal right
under those sections to enforce the repudiation of his notes,
even although, 9n grounds of public policy, they were illegal
and void.
In Walworth Y Kneeland, 15 How 348, it was held, as
correctly stated in the headnotes:
"Where a case was decided in a state court against a party,
who was ordered to convey certain land, and he brought the
,case up to. this court upon the ground that the contract for
the conveyance of. the land was contrary to the laws of the
United States, this is not enough to give jurisdiction to this
court under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act.
"The state court decided against hun upon the ground that
the opposite party was innocent of all design to contravene
the laws of the United States.
"But even if the state court had enforced a contract, which
was fraudulent and void, the losing party has no right which
he can enforce in this court, which cannot therefore take
jurisdiction over the case."

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

And Mr. Chief Justice Taney said. "But if it had been
otherwise, and the state court had committed so gross an error
as to say that a contract, forbidden by an act of Congress, or
against its policy, was not fraudulent and void, and that it
might be enforced in a court of justice, it would not follow
that this writ of error could be maintained. In order to bring
himself -within the twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789, he
must show that he claimed some right, some inter.est, which
the law recognizes and protects, and which was denied to him
in the state court. But this act of Congress certainly gives
him no right to protection from the consequences of a contract made in violation of law Such a contract, it is true,
would not be enforced against him in a court of justice, not on
account of his own rights or merits, but from the want of
merits and good conscience in the party asking the aid of the
court. But to support this writ of &rror, he must claim a
right which, if well founded, he would be able to assert in a
court of justice, upon its own merits, and by its own strength."
p. 353.
The certificate on the allowance of the writ of error could
not in itself confer jurisdiction on this court, Fullerton v.
Texas, 196 U S. 192, 194, and the result is that the writ of
/
error must be
' Divsirsed.

,RODRIGUEZ v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 183. Submitted March 15,1905.-Decided May 1, 19W.

Under §§ 34, 35 of the Foraker act of 1900, 31 Stat. 85, this court can
review judgments of the District Court of the United States for Porto
Rico in criminal cases where the accused claimed and, as alleged, was
denied a right under an act of Congress and under the Revised Statutes
of the United States.

