KENDALL v. AMERICAN AUTOMATIC LOOM CO. 477
f98 U. S.

Syllabus.

resulting from absence for abref period, would be a want of
due process of law, and therefore repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment. Let it be further conceded, as we also think
is essential, that a state law which did not provide adequate
notice as prerequisite to the proceedings for the administration of the estate of an absentee would also be repugnant to
the Fourteenth Amendment. Again, let it be conceded that
if a state law, m.providing for the administration of the estate
of an absentee, contained no adequate safeguards concerning
property, and amounted therefore simply to authorizing the
transfer of the property of the absentee to others, that such
a law would be repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment.
We think none of these concessions are controling in this case.
So far as the period of absence provided by the statute in
question, it certainly cannot be said to be unreasonable. So
far as the notices which it directs to be issued, we think they
were reasonable. As concerns the safeguards which the statute creates for the-protection of the interest of the absentee
in case he should return, -we content ourselves with saying that
we think, as construed by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
the provisions of the statute do not conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment.
Affirmed.

KENDALL v. AMERICAN AUTOMATIC LOOM COXfPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
NO. 541. Submitted April 24, 190.-Decided May 29, 1905.

This court can review by appeal under ยง 5 of the act of March 3, 1891,
the judgment of the Circuit.Court dismissing the bill on the sole ground
that it never acquired jurisdiction over the defendant,, a foreign corporation, for lack ot proper service of process. Board of Trade v. Hammond Elevator Co., ante, p. 424.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

Where the foreign corporation was doing no business and had no assets
in the State, service upon a former officer residing therein, held, insufficient under the circumstances of this case.

was brought against the defendant, appellee, for
the purpose of obtaining a discovery of all the matters referred
to in the bill of complaint, and to have a receiver appointed
of the assets of the company within the State of New York,
and for an accounting: by the directors of the defendant, and
for other relief.
The bill alleged that the plaintiff, at the time of filing his
bill, was a citizen of the United States and of the State, county
and city of. New York, that the defendant was a stock corporation, organized 'n March, 1898, and existing under the laws
of the State of West Virginia, and was incorporated to engage
in the business of manufacturing and selling looms and weaving
nmachinery, and that by its charter its principal office and
place of business was in the city, county and State of New
York. The bill of complaint, togedier with a writ of subpcmna, requiring the defendant to answer the bill, were served
in the city of New York upon a person who had been the
treasurer of the defendant corporation. Within the proper
time the defendant appeared specially, for the sole purpose
of questioning the jurisdiction of the court and of moving to
set aside the attempted service.
The motion was founded upon the affidavit of Joseph H.
Emery, in which he averred, among other matters, that the
service of the -ubpcena had been made upon him in the city
of New York, because (as he believed) he had been the treasurer of the defendant corporation, that the domilci and residence of the defendant were in the State of WesG Virginia, the
purpose of its incorporation was the development of a selffeeding loom attachment, which gives to the ordinary loom a
continuous supply of filling thread. It wLs further stated in
the affidavit that the corporation was the owner of divers
patents, but it'had never manufactured nmerchandise. It had
never made a sale, and it had never engaged in the transactionTHIS SUit

KENDALL v. AMERICAN AUTOMATIC LOOM CO. 479
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of the business for which it was incorporated. It had no business or assets m the State of New York, and, had no office or
place of business there, and those of its officers who resided in
that State were not there officially, or as representing any business or interest of the corporation. After the formation of
the corporation, and between the years 1898 and 1901, the
meetings of the directors of the company were held at different
places in the city of New York where accommodations could
be secured, sometimes at the office of the counsel of the company in New York and sometimes at a hotel, but since August 10, 1901, there had been no meeting, either of the stockholders or of the directors, and on the last-mentioned date the
stockholders were notified that the company had no funds
with which to pay the franchise taxes which were due to the
State of West Virginia, and affiant averred that no funds had
since been provided for that purpose, that since that date
the company had transacted no business, had maintained no
office in the State of New York, and that an action had been
commenced by the State of West Virginia against it to terminate and forfeit its corporate franchise. The sole assets of the
company consisted of two automatic looms and tools and
machinery employed m the making thereof and its patents.
The looms, with machinery and tools, were m Attleboro,
Massachusetts. The letters patent were also in the possession
of a Mr. Mossberg, m Attleboro, Massachusetts, who had made
divers attempts to improve the looms. The company had no
bank account, no office force, and no employ6s. It had never
reached the stage of the active transaction of business, and such
assets as it possessed were beyond the jurisdiction of the court.
No one had been elected treasurer m place of Mr. Emery, so far
as the record shows, and he was the treasurer of the company
when service was made upon him.
An affidavit m opposition was filed by the complainant,
but the facts above set forth were substantially undemed.
The Circuit Court, upon the hearing, granted the motion of the
defendant to set aside and declare null and void the attempted

OCTOBER TEU'1, 1904.
Argument. for Appellee.

198 U. S.

service on the corporation of the bill of complaint and writ of
subpoena by the service thereof upon Joseph H. Emery, on or
about the thirteenth day of December, 1904. The complainant has appealed directly to this court from the order of the
Circuit Court setting aside the -service of the subpoena.
Mr Noah C Rogers for appellant:
The defendant is subject to the jurisdiction of the New
York court by the provision in its articles of incorporation fixmg its principal place of business there. People v Geneva College, 5 Wendell (N. Y.), 211, Attorney General v Oakland Co.
Bank, 1 Walker C. L. (Mich.) 90, 97
Having made it one of the conditions of its creation that
its principal place of business should be in the city, county
and State of New York, it will not be heard now to deny this
jurisdiction. The defendant has not amended its charter,
revoked the agency of its treasurer or withdrawn its place of
business to another jurisdiction. Canada Southern R. Co. v
Gebhard, 109 U. S. 527, 537
The service of the writ of subpoena on the defendant's
treasurer was sufficient to give the court jurisdiction. Am.
Locomotive Co. v Dickson Co., 117 Fed. Rep. 972, McCord
Lumber Co. v Doyle, 97 Fed. Rep. 22, Conn. Mut. Life Ins.
Co. v Spratley, 172 U S. 602, Merchants' Mfg. Co. v Grand
Trunk Ry. Co., 13 Fed. Rep. 358.
Mr Benjamin N Cardozo for appellee:
The defendant has no domicil or abode in the State of New
Y:rk; it is not engaged in business in that State, and the service of the subpoena on its treasurer was ineffedtive to bring it
into court. Conley v Mathieson Alkali Works, 190 U S. 406,
Goldey v Morning .News, 156 U S: 518, Construction Co. v
Fitzgerald, 137 U .. 106, Geer v Mathieson Alkali Works,_190
U S. 429; CaledonianCoal Co. v Baker, 196 U. S. 444, Sharkey
v. Indiana &c. Ry. Co., 186 U .479; 1Vabash Ry. Co. v Brow,
164 U. S. 271, In re Keasbey, 160 U. S. 221, St. Clair v Cox

KENDALL v. AMERICAN AUTOMvIATIC LOOM CO. 481
198 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

106 U S. 350; Stock Exchange v )Boardof Trade, 125 Fed.,Rep.
463, Martin v Asphalt Co., 130 Fed. Rep. 394, McGillin v
Claflin, 52 Fed. Rep. 657, Good Hope Co. v. Fencing Co., 22
Fed. Rep. 635.
The cases which attribute controlling force to the designation of the place of business, as contained in the certificatc'of
incorporation, have relation only to the question of the situs
of the corporation within the State of its origin. They have
no bearing upon its situs without that State. Western TransportationCo. v Scheu, 19 N. Y. 408, Galveston R. R. v Gonzales,
151 U. S. 496.
The question in issue is not a question of the jurisdiction of
the court below within the meaning of section 5 of the act of
March 3, 1891, and an appeal directly from the Circuit Court
cannot be sustained. Courtney v Pradt, 196 U. S. 89; Bache
v Hunt, 193 U. S. 523, Lousville Trust Co. v Knott, 191 U S.
225, 232; Blythe v. Hinckley, 173 U. S. 501, Mex. Cent. Ry.
Co. v Eckman; 187 U. S. 429.
The question that the Circuit Court decided is not one as to
the jurisdiction of the Federal judiciary. That the suit is
cognizable in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York has neither been disputed by
the appellee nor denied by the court below The complainant
is a citizen of the State of New York, and a resident of the
Southern District of New York; the defendant is a citizen of
the State of West Virginia. Shaw v Quncy Minsng Co., 145
U. S.444. Indisputably, therefore, there e)ists that diversity
of citizenship which confers jurisdiction of the cause on the
Federal courts. The trouble is that the defendant has not been
served with process. An attempt has been made to bring it
into court by service of the subpoena on an agent, and the sole
question is whether that service was effective. In passing on
that question, the court has been governed, not by any consideration peculiar to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts,
but by considerations of general jurisprudence, applicable, as
this court has declared, to all tribunals,
VOL. oxoVI-31

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

The Circuit Court has certified no question for review It
has not disputed its jurisdiction of the subject matter of the
cause. It has not suggested that the parties, if properly
brought before it, are beyond its competence, or are rendered
immune from prosecution in the Circuit Courts. It has merely
held that the defendant has not yet been served with process.
That is not a question of jurisdiction within the meaning of
the statute.
The order should be affirmed or the appeal dismissed.
after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM,

It is objected, in the first place, by the appellee that the
appellant had no statutory right to appeal directly to this
court from the order setting aside the service of the subpcena.
It is -asserted that the case does not involve the jurisdiction of
the court below within the meaning of section 5 of the act of
March 3, 1891, inasmuch as the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court as a Federal court is not questioned, the jurisdiction bemg denied upon grounds alike applicable to any other judicial
tribunal, state or Federal, under the same circumstances. This
case is, however, on that point governed by that of Board
of Trade v Hammond Elevator Co., decided this day (ante
p. 424), where it is held that the order is reviewable by this
court under the section above mentioned.
Regarding the case as properly here, the question is whether
the service made upon the treasurer of the appellee corporation
was a valid service upon the corporation itself. We think it
was not. It is perfectly apparent that the corporation was,
at the time of the service on the treasurer, doing no business
whatever within the State of New York, and that it had never
done any business there since it was incorporated in the State
of West Virginia. While we have lately held that, in the case
of a foreign corporation, the service upon a resident director
of the State where.the service was made was a good service

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. WEST COAST CO. 483
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

where that corporation was doing business within that State,
Pennsylvama Lumbermen's &c. Co. v Meyer, 197 U S. 407,
yet such service is insufficient for a court to acquire jurisdiction
over the corporation where the company was not doing any
business in the State, and was situated like this company at
the time of the service upon the treasurer. Conley v Mathwson Alkali Works, 190 U S. 406.

The order of the Circuit Court was right, and is
Affirmed.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAI) COMPANY
v. WEST COAST NAVAL STORES COMI'ANY
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF A'I'EALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 225. Submitted April 25, 1905.-Decided May 29, 190.
A common carrier may agree with such other carrier as it may choose to
forward beyond its own line goods it has transported to its terminus;
and, if it has adequate terminal facilities-at a sea port, sufficient for all
freight destined for that place, it is not obliged to allow other and com-peting carriers to load and discharge at a wharf owned by it and ereqted
for facilitating the transportation of through freight to points beyond
that place.
The fact that a wharf is built by a railroad company on what might be the
extension of a publiq street,. under permissions of the municipality, does
not, in the absence of express stipulations, make it a public wharf, or
affect the company's right of sole occupancy, or power of regiflation,
thereof.

CERTIORARI

to the Circuit Court of Appeals for-the Fifth

Circuit to review a judgment of that court affirming one in
favor of the West Coast Na al Stores Company (hereinafter
called the plaintiff), against the Railroad Company (hereinafter called the defendant), for damages for refusing to permit
the plaintiff to use the wharf of defendant at Pensacola for the

