OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

198 U. S.

JASTER v. CURRIE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 205. Argued April 7 and 10, 1905.-DecIded April 24, 1905.
Service ok a writ, in Ohio, upon a party who came'into the State for the
purpose of being present at the taking of a deposition, which was taken
-according to the notice,.if it would have been good otherwise, is not made
bad by the fact that the notice was given for the sole purpose of inducing
the party to come into th State. Refusal by the court of the other
State to treat the judgment'based on such service as binding is a failure
to give it due faith and ckedit as required by'Article IV, § 1, of the
Constitution of the United States.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr 0. A. Abbott, *withwhom Mr J R. Webster was on the
brief, for plaintiff in errorWhether one State has given full faith and credit to the
judgment of another State is always a Federal question and
this court has jurisdiction to review such judgment where the
question appears from the record. Huntzngton v Attrill, 146
U. S. 657 The Nebraska courts have held this Ohio judgment void and refused to enforce it. Anderson v 'Anderson,
8 Ohio St. 109, held that fraud in procuring a judgment in a
sister State was no defense when that judgment was sued on
in Ohio.
The Ohio judgment was not given full faith and credit,
It was not enforced.
So long as the judgment of a sister State stands unimpeached
in the State where rendered it is unimpeachable in every other
State. Chmtmas v Russell, 5 Wall. 290; Maxwell v Stewart,
22 Wall. 77, Anderson v Anderson, 8 Ohio St. 109, McRae v.
Mattoon, 30 Massachusetts, 53, "Hannav Read, 102 Illinois,
596, Dams v Hagler, 40 Kansas, 187, Engstrom v Sherburne,
137 Massachusetts, 153,

JASTER v. CURRIE.
198 U. S.

Argument for Defendant m Error.

The Ohio judgment wa; not obtained by fraud in obtaining
service of the summons by means of notice to take depositions.
The simple ordinary service of notice to take depositions is
all the act laid at our doors. If this constitutes fraud, trickery
and deception, no judgment is safe when under review by the
courts of another State. It cannot be true that attending
the taking of depositions in Ohio grant-- defendant eternal immunity from service in Ohio. A reasonable time to return is
all he can ask. Smythe v Bank, 4 Dall. 329; Chaffee v Jones,
19 Pick. (Mass.) 250.
Mr. E. J Clements, with whom Mr Hallack F Rose was on
the brief, for defendant in error;
A writ of error brings before this court only the Federal
questions involved. Watson v Mercer, 8 Peters, 88; Barbler
v Connolly, 113 U S. 27, Eustis v Bolles, 150 U S, 361, Ashley
v Ryan, 153 U S. 440; Jacobs v Marks, 182 U S. 590.
The test in this case is not whether the judgment has been
impeached for fraud in Ohio,'but rather, would the courtp of
Ohio permit it to be impeached for fraud in an action brought
therein to enforce it.
Section 1, Art. IV, Const. U S., requires nothing more than
that the judgment of a sister State be given the same effect
that it has in the State where it was pronounced, and whatever pleas would be good in a suit thereon in such State can
be pleaded in any other courts in the United State. Act of
May 26, 1790, 1 Stat. 115, Mills v Duryee, 7 Cranch. 481;
Hampton v McConnell, 2 Wheat. 235. And see also Lockwood
v Mitchell, 19 Ohio St. 448, Conway v Duncan, 28 Ohio .
102; Kingsboroughv Towsley, 56 Ohio St. 540; Greene v Woodland Ave. Co., 62 Ohio St. 67, Pitcher v Graham, 18 Ohio
C. R. 5.
In code States, where law and equity are admeintered by
the same tribunals, and the disposition of the: entire controversy between parties in one action is intended to be encouraged, such fraud as would entitle the party to relief from
VOL. CxOvIII-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

a judgment upon application to chancery constitutes a good
defense to an action on such judgment. Mandeville v Reynolds, 68 N. .Y 544, White v. Reu!, 24 N. Y Supp. 290; Eaton
v Hasty, 6 Nebraska, 419; Keeler v Elston, 22 Nebraska, 310;
Snyder v Critchfield, 44 Nebraska, 69; Fletcher v Rapp, 1
S. & M. Ch. (Miss.) 374, Holt v Alloway, 2 Blackf. (Ind.) 108,
Dunnger v Moschno, 93 Indiana, 495, Dams v. Smith, 5
Georgia, 274, Wood v Wood, 78 Kentucky, 628, Dunlap v
Cody, 31 Iowa, 260; Pilcher v Graham, 18 Ohio C. R. 5, Ward
v Quinlan, 57 Missouri, 425, Gray v Richmond & Co., 167
N. Y 348, Bank v Anderson, 48 Pac. Rep. 197, Tool v Foley,
54 N. W Rep. 59; Abercrombe v Abercrombie, 67 Pac. Rep.
539. Christmas v Russell, 5 Wall. 290; Maxwell v Stewart,
22 Wall. 77, distinguished. See Dobson v, Pierce, 12 N. Y.
156, 2 Freeman on Judg. § 435, 1 Ency P1. & Pr. 837
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMiES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought by the plaintiff in error in Nebraska

upon a judgment recovered by him against the defendant in
error in Ohio- To this the defendant pleads that the plaintiff
had brought a previous action in Nebraska for the.same cause
and afterwards served notice upon the defendant's attorney
that the plaintiff's deposition would be taken in Ohio at a
certain place on September 5, 1899, for use in the cause; that
defendant was advised by his attorney to be present and went
to Ohio for that purpose only; that the deposition was taken
And the defendant then went to his father's house in the same
coufity fir the night of September 5, and that on September.8,
in the early morning, being the earliest time convenient for
leaving his father's for Nebraska, he took the tram back. The
writ in theThio suit was received and served on September 7
It is alleged that the notice to take the deposition was simply
a ruse, and was given for the purpose of enticing the defendant
into Ohio and for'no other reason. There was a motion to set
aside the service in the Ohio court, whhic was overruled,

JASTER v. CURRIE.
198 U..S.

Opinion of the Court.

66 Ohio St. 661, but the defendant alleges that at that. time
-he had not discovered what he styles the fraud perpetrated
upon him. There was a general demurrer to this answer,
which was overruled, and judgment was given for the defendant. This judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Nebraska, 94 N. W, Rep. 995, and thereupon the case was
brought here on the ground that due faith and credit had not
been given to the Ohio .record, as required by Art. !V, § 1,
of the Constitution of the United States. Huntsngton v Attrill, 146 U S. 657, Jacobs v Marks, 182 U S. 583.
The Supreme Court of Nebraska affirmed the judgment on
the ground that m that State the distinction between actions
at law and suits inequity had been abolished, that the decision
in Chrstmas v Russell, 5 Wall. 290, was limited to legal defenses, 5 Wall. 304, 306, and that fraud would have been an
equitable defense to the judgment in Ohio, and thierefore was
in Nebraska. We take up the question on this footing, without stopping to discuss the premises, which we find it unnecessary to do, and we will assume that on general demurrer
a plea that the judgment wasobtamed by fraud would be a
good equitable plea. See 5 Wall. 303.
It is assumed that -the service of the writ in Ohio would
have been good but for the alleged fraud. Sinythe v Banks,
4 Dall. 329; Chafee v Jones, 19 Pick. 260. That point must
- have been decided by the Ohio courts. Moreover, the facts
constituting the fraud are set forth and gain no new force from
the vituperative, epithet. If the inducement to enter theState of Ohio futnished- by .the notice to take a deposition
there was made fraudulent by the motive with which the
notice was given, then there was fraud, otherwise there was
not. On the face of the answer fraud is simply the pleader's
conclusion from the specific fadts. The question is whethei
the motive alleged can have the -effect supposed.
It will be observed that there was no misrepresentation,express or implied, with regard to anything, 'even the motiires
of the plaintiff. The parties were at arm's length. The plain-

OCTOBER. TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

tiff did not say or imply that he had one motive rather than
another. He simply did a lawful act by all the powers enabling him to do it, and that was all. Therefore -the word
fraud may be discarded as inappropriate. The question is
whether the service of a writ, otherwise lawful, becomes unlawful because the hope for a chance to make it was the sole
motive for other acts tending to create the chance, which other
acts would themselves have been lawful but for that hope.
We assume that motives may make a difference m liability.
But the usual cases where they have been held to do so have
been cases where the immediate and expected effect'of the act
done was to inflict damage, and where therefore, as a matter
of substantive law, if not of pleading, the act was thought to
need a justification, see Aikens v Wisconssn, 195 U S. 194,
204, or else where the intent was to do a further and unlawful
act to which the act done was the means. Swift and Company
v United'States, 196 U S. 375, 396.
It is hard to exhaust the possibilities of a general proposition. Thereforeit may be dangerous to say that doing an act
lawful in itself as a means of doing another act lawful in itself
cannot make a wrong by the combination. It is enough to
say that it doestnot usually have that result, and that the case
at bar is not a. exception to the general rule. We must take
the allegations of the answer to be true, although they are
manifestly- absurd. The plaintiff could not have known that
the defendant's lawyer would advise him to go to Ohio, and
that the defendant would go to his father's house, instead of
to Nebraska, when his business was over. But we assume,
as far as possible.-that the anticipation of these things was the
sole inducement for giving the notice and taking the disposition. Still the notice was true, and the taking of the deposition needed no justification. It could be taken arbitrarily,
because the plaintiff chose. On the other hand, the defendant
could be served with process if he saw fit to linger in Ohio.
That also the plaintiff could do arbitrarily, because he chose,
if he thought he had a case. He arbitrarily could unite the

ALLEN v. ARGUIMVAU.
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

two acts, and do the first because he hoped it would give him
a chance to.do the.last.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA and MR. JUSTICE

DAY concur in

the result.

ALLEN v. ARGUIMIAU.,
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 523. Submitted April 3, 190.-Decided Mlay 1, 19W6.
Where the judgment of the state court rests on two grounds, one involving
a Federal question and the other not, and it does not appear on which
of the two the judgment was based and the ground, independent of a
Federal qdestion, is sufficient in itself to sustain it, this court will not
take jurisdiction.
The certificate of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the State on
the allowance of the writ of error that the judgment denied a title, right
or immunity specially set up under the statutes of the United States,
cannot in itself confer jurisdiction on this court.
Plaintiff in error contended as defendant in the state court, which overruled
the plea, that his notes were void because given in pursuance of a
contract which involved the violation of §§ 3390, 3393, 3397, Rev.
Stat., providing for the collection of revenue on manufactured tobacco.
Held, that as an individual can derive no personal right under those.
sections to enforce repudiation of his-notes, even though they might be
illegal and void as against public policy, the defense did not amount to
the setting up by, and decision against, the maker.of the notes of a right,
privilege or immunity under a statute of the United States, within the
meaning of § 709, Rev. Stat., and the writ of error was dismissed.

THIS was an action upon two promissory notes for twenty-five
hundred dollars each, payable to Horace R. Kelly, endorsed to
the Horace R. Kelly & Company, Limited, and by.that company endorsed to the firm of which Argumbau was 8urvivor.
Many pleas were interposed in defense, and, among them,
several filed March 24, 1900, and several filed February 2,
1903. By the first of these pleas, defeftdant below, plaintiff
in error here, averred "that on or about the eighteenth day

