OLD DOMINION STEAMSHIP CO. v. VIRGINIA. 299
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

OLD DOMINIbN STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. VIRGINIA.
ERROR TD THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

VIRGINIA.
I"o. 231. Argued April, 25, 26, 1905.-Decided May 15,1 905.

The general rule that tangible personal property is subject to taxation
by the State in which it is, no matter where the domicil of the owner may
be, is not affected by the fact that the property is employed in interstate
transportation on either land or water.
Vessels registered or enrolled are not exempt from ordinary rules respecting taxation of personal property. The artificial s4tus created as the
home port of a vessel, under § 4141, Rev. Stat., only controls the place
the absence of an actual situs elsewhere.
of taxation in.
Vessels, though engaged in interstate commerce, employed in such commerce ivholly within the limits of a State, are subject to taxation in that
*State although they may have been registered or enrolled at a port outside its limits.

ON March 17, 1904, the Supreme Couit of Appeals of the
State of Virginia, in a matter appealed from a finding of the
State Corporation Commission, entered .the following findings
and order"
"That the Old Dominion Steamship Company was a nonresident corporation, having been incorporated by the senate
and house of representatives of the State of Delaware, that it
was then and had been for many years theretofore engaged in
the transportation of passengers and freight on the Atlantic
Ocean and communicating navigable waters, between the city
of New York, m the'State of New York, and Norfolk, and certam other ports within the State of Virginia. That said steamship company in the prosecution of its said transportation
business owned and operated the vessel property above named,
that these vessels, with the exception of the tug Germania,
whose movements and use will be hereinafter stated, visited
various ports or points within the State of Virginia, for the
purpose of receiving freight and passengers, for which they

.800

OCTOBER TERM,. 1904.
Statement of the Case

198 U. S.

issued bills of lading and tickets to points outside the State of
Virginia, that owing to the shallow waters where these vessels
plied it was impossible in most instances for the larger oceangoing steamers of the company to be used, that in consequence
the vessels above enumerated were used to receive the freight
and passengers as aforesaid, giving the shipper of freight a bill
of lading for the same, destined to New York and other points
outside of Virginia, and the passenger a ticket to his destination, and thus transported such freight and passengers to
deeper water at Norfolk and Old Point Comfort where, upon
such bills of lading and tickets, the passengers and freight
were transferred to one of the larger ocean-going vessels of the
isteamship company, and so the ultimate destination, namely,
.New Yorl%-.and elsewhere outside of Virginia, was reached,
that any other business transacted by the above-named
vessels was incidental in character and comparatively insignificant m.amount; that the said vessels were built and designed
for-interstate traffic especially and were adjuncts to or branches
of the main line of the Old Dominion Steamship Company between New York and Norfolk, that each and all of the said
vessels wereregularly enrolled, under the United States laws,
outside of the State of Virginia, with the name and port of
such enrollment painted on the stern of each of them, that the
said vessels, though regularly enrolled and licensed for coastwise trade, were then used on old established routes upon
navigable waters within Virginia, as follows, to wit:
"First. The steamer Hampton Roads, between Fort Monroe
and Hampton and Norfolk.
"Second. The steamer Mobjack, between points in Mathews
and Gloucester Counties and Norfolk.
"Third. The steamers Luray and Accomac, between Smithfield and Norfolk.
"Fourth. The steamer Virginia Dare, between Suffolk and
Norfolk.
"Fifth. The steamers Berkeley and Brandon, between Richmonal and Norfolk; and

OLD DOMINION STEAMSHIP CO. v. VIRGINIA. 301
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"The steamers Berkeley and Brandon ply between Richmond and Norfolk. These two steamers were completed in
the year 1901, or early in 1902, one of them having been constructed at the William R. Trigg shipyard-m the city of Rich.mond, and the other outside of the State of Virginia. Early
in the year 1902 they were placed upon the line between
Norfolk and Richmond, one steamer leaving Richmond each
evening and arriving in'Norfolk each morning, thus giving a
night trip every night each way between .Richmoid and Norfolk. At the time these steamers -were placed upon this route
and since that tine, the Old Donuion Steamship Company
has by public advertisement called attention to the fact that
these two steamers were especially fitted in the matter of
stateroom accommodations for carrying passengers between
Richmond and Norfolk, and the said two steamers have since
that time been advertising for the carriage of passengers and
freight on their route between Richmond and Norfolk, and
have been regularly carrying freight- and passengers between
the said two points in Virginia as well as taking on freight and
passengers for further transportation on their ocean steamers
at Norfolk. The Old Dominion Steamship Company applied
under the revenue laws of the State of Virginia for a license to
sell liquor at retail on each of these steamers, and on July 1,
1902, there was granted through the commissioner of the
revenue of the city of Richmond a license to the Old Dominion
Steamship Company for the sale of liquor at retail on each .of
these steamers, said licenses to expire on April 30, 1903. On
or about the same time, the said steamship company complied
with the revenue laws of the United States, and paid the necessary revenue tax through the custom house at the city of
Richmond for .the purpose of selling liquor at retail on each
of these steamers. In the spring of 1903, the said steamship
company, in order to obtain licenses to sell liquor at retail on
each of these steamers, applied for the same in the city of
Richmond and complied with the requirements of section'143
of the new revenue law, approved April 16,'1903, and so ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

198 U. S.

tamed licenses for the years 1903-1904 to sell liquor at retail
on each of these steamers on their route between the cities
of Richmond and Norfolk, and likewise, on or about the same
time, complied with the revenue laws of the United States in
the matter of selling liquor at retail on each of the said steamers
on said route.
"Sixth. The steam tug Germniama, which was used m the
harbor of Norfolk and Hampton Roads for the purpose of
docking the large ocean-going steamers of the Old Domunon
Steamship Company, and the transferring from different points
m those waters freight from connecting lines destined to points
outside of Virginia.
"And the court, having maturely considered said transcript
of the record of the finding aforesaid and. the arguments of
counsel, is of opinion that the legal sitis of the vessels and
barges assessed for taxation by the finding of the state corporation commission is, for that purpose, within the jurisdiction
of the State of Virginia, and that said property is amenable to
the tax imposed thereon-notwithstanding the fact that said
vessels and barges are owned by a non-resident corporation,
that they may have been enrolled under the act of Congress at
some port outside the State of Virgmia,.and that they are engaged, in part, in interstate commerce-and doth so decide
and declare. Therefore it seems to the court here that the
finding of the state corporation commission appealed from is
without error, and said finding is approved and affirmed. It
is further considered by the court that the appellee recover
against the appellant thirty dollars damages and its costs by
it about its defense expended upon this appeal."
To review this order the Old Dominion Steamship Company
sued out this writ of error.

Mr. William H. White for plaintiff in error
The State of Virginia cannot, consistently with Art. I, § 8,
cl. 3, of the. Constitiution of the United States and the act of
Congress pursuant thereto, lawfully tax vessels owned by

OLD DOMINION STEAMSHIP CO. v. VIRGINIA.
198 U. S.

303

Argument for Defendant m Error.

non-resident citizens, duly enrolled under the navigation laws
of the United States licensed for and engaged in the coastwise
trade. §§ 4141, 4313-4315 Rev Stat., Transportation Co.
v. Wheeling, 99 U. S. 278, Pullman Co. v Twombly. 29 Fed.
Rep. 665; Railroad Co. v Maryland, 21 Wall. 456, Hays v.
Pacific MailS. S. Co., 17 How. 596. The steamboat property
imvolved'm this case, operated as described in the certificate
of facts, is as clearly engaged in the busmess and commerce of
the country upon. its highways as was .the property in the
cases cited. They are neither owned by citizens or residents
of Virginia, nor enrolled or registered in that State. The
record does not show -whether these vessels were actually"
taxed at their home port or not but that matters not as they
are liable to taxation there and that answers the law Morgan v Parham, 16 Wall. 471, Roberts v Charlevozx, 60 Michigan, 192; Johnson v De Bary Baya Lzne, 37 Florida, 499.
If the principle contended for by the Commonwealth in this
case is conceded it would follow that while she could equally
tax the vessel property of her own citizens, she could equally
tax the vessel property of the citizens of any of the other
States, which might be found in her waters, and likewise
expose the vessel property of her own citizens to be taxed
by the other States in whose waters they might be found trading. The confusion and injustice following such a condition
is more than an ample justification of the principle which pernlits such property to be taxable only at. its legal Situs or
"home port" and not anywhere thatit may be actually found
trading in the waters of any State of the Union.
Mr William A. Anderson, Attorney General of the State
of Virginia, for.defendant in errorThe general and unquestioned doctrine is that the State
has the right to tax all property, movable as well as mimovable,
actually located within its confines.
And this is the law as to tangible -property, without reference to the donucil of its owner.

OCTOBER TERMt, 1904.
Argument for Defendant m Error.

198 U. S.

The ancient fiction of the Roman law-mobilia sequuntur
personam-does not apply to tangible movable personal property State Tax on Foreign-held Bonds, 15 Wall. 300.; Story
Conflict .of Laws, 7th ed., § 550; Judson on Taxation, §393;
1 Cooley, Taxation, 3d ed., 22; Transit Co. v Lynch, 177 U. S.
152.
The only limitation upon this power in the'States is that it
shall not be so exercised as to hinder or interfere with interstate or international con erce. The tax, therefore, cannot
be levied upon the business of interstate commerce, but it can
be levied upon property used in interstate commerce. A tax
on ships does not violate the commerce clause of the Federal
Constitution. The only question is whether they are propekly
within the jurisdiction of the State levying the tax. Ravennel
v. Charleston, 4 Rich. L. 286.
A State may levy a tax on steamboats plying exclusively in
its own waters, owned by its own citizens, although enrolled
and licensed as coasting vessels, under the laws of the United
States. Lott v Mobile Trade Co., 43 Alabama, 518, Gloucester
Ferrycase, 114 V S.206, N W. Lumber Co. v. Chehalis County,
64 Pac. Rep. 909; N & W Railway Co. v Board .of Public
Works, 97 Virginia, 23, Mintula v Hays, 2 California, 590.
The fact tlhat these vessels .are engaged in interstate commerce, according to the repeated adjudications of this court,
fails to give to the instruments and vehicles, which carry
such traffic between the-States, immunity from taxation by
the State in whose jurisdiction such vehicles have their actual
situs. Perry v Torrance, 32 Am. Dec. 725, Pullman Palace
Car Co. v Pennsylvansa, 141. U S. 30; Denver & R. G Ry. v.
Church, 17 Colorado, 1, AdaihsExpress Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S.
194, Afams Express Co. v Ohio, 166 U S. 185, Amercan
RefriratorCo. v Hall, 174 U. S.70.
Cases cited by plaintiff in error can be distinguished as
the vessels in those cases were. only temporarily in the State
where the taxation was .held illegal.
The claim that these vessels, although habitually, continu-

*OLD DOMINION STEAMSHIP CO. v. VIRGINIA. 305
198 U. S.

Opinon of the Court,

ously and permanently within the jurisdiction of Virginia, and
regularly engaged in carrying interstate and mtra-state commerce, exclusively .between Virginia ports, are innmune from
taxation in Virginia because their Delaware owner has had them
enrolled in New York, or Delaware, or somewhere outside of
Virginia cannot be sustained.
Although this question has been decided by the highest
courts of several of the States, where it has arisen, in favor
of the validity of the tax, it does not seem to have ever been
directly adjudicated by this court; yet the reason and principles of the decisions by this court as to the liability of personal
property generally, and particularly as to the liability of the
vehicles of commerce upon land, to taxation by the State in
whose jurisdiction they are actually located, fully sustain the
legality and the rightfulness of the taxation of these vessels
by Virginia.
MR. JusTicE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The facts being settled, the only question is. one of law
Can Virgmia legally subject these vessels to state taxation?
The general rule is that tangible personal property is subject
to taxation by the State in which it is, no matter where the
doncil of the owner may be., This rule is not affected by the
fact that the property is employed in interstate transportation.
Pullman's Palace Car Company v Pennsylvania, 141 U S. 18,
in which Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the court, said (p. 23)
"It is equally well settled that there is nothing in the Constitution or laws of the United States which prevents a State
from taxing personal property,. employed in interstate or foreign commerce, like other personal property -ithin its jurisdiction."
See also Cleveland &c. Railway Co. v Back us, 154 U S. 439,
445, Western Unwn Telegraph Co. v Taggart, 163 U. S. 1, 14.
This is true as to water as well as to land transportation.
In Gloucester Ferry Company v Pennsylvania, 114 U S. 196,
voL. cxovii-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.

Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

217, Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the opinion of the court,
after referring to certain impositions upon interstate commerce,
added.
"Freedom from such impositions does not, 6f course, inplyexemption from reasonable charges, as compensation for the
carriage of persons, in the way of tolls or fares, or from the
ordinary taxation to which other property is subjected, any
more than'like freedom of transportation on land implies such
exemption."
See also Passenger Cases, 7 How 283, in which Mr. Justice McLean said (p. 402)
"A State cannot regulate foreign commerce, but it may do
many things which more or less affect it. It may tax a ship
or other vessel used in commerce the ssme as other property
owned by its citizens."
The same doctrine is laid down in the same case by Mr Chief
Justice Taney (p. 479). See also Transportation Company v.
Wheeling, 99 U. S. 273. That the service in which these vessels were engaged formed one link in a line of continuous interstate commerce may affect the State's power of regulation
but not its power of taxation. True, they were not engaged
in an independent service, as the cabs in Pennsylvania Railroad Company v Knght, 192 U S. 21, but, being wholly within
the State, that was their actual situs. And, as appears from
the authorities referred to, the fact that they were engaged
.m interstate commerce does not impair the State's authority
to impose taxes upon them as property Indeed, it is not
coptended that these vessels, although engaged in interstate
commerce, are not subject to state, taxation, the contention
belig that they are taxable only at the port at which they are
enrolled. In support of this contention the two principal
casos relied upon are Hays v The Pacific Mail Steamship
Company, 17 How 596, and Morgan v Parham,16 Wall. 471.
,Registry and enrollment are prescribed by sections 4141 and
4311, Rev Stat., for vessels of the United States engaged in
foreign-and domestic commerce. Section 4141 reads:

OLD DOMINION STEAMSHIP CO. v. VIRGINIA. 307
.98 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

"SEc. 4141. Every vessel, except as is hereinafter provided,

shall be registered by the collector of that collection district
which includes the port to which such vessel shall belong At
the time of her registry; which port.shall be deemed to be that
at or nearest to which the owner, if .there be but- one, or, if
more than one, the husband ,or acting and managing owner
of such vessel, usually resides."
By sections 4131 and 4311 vessels registered or enrolled are.
declared to be deemed vessels of the United States. As stated
by Chancellor Kent, in his Conmentanes, vol. 3, p. *139"
"The object of the. registry acts is to encourage our own
trade, navigation, and ship-building, by granting peculiar or
exclusive privileges of trade to the flag of the United States,
and by prohibiting the communication of those immunities to
the shipping and mariners of other countries. These provisions
are well calculated to prevent the commission of fraud upon
individuals, as well as to advance the national policy The
registry of all vessels at the custom house, and the memorandums of the transfers, add great security to title, and bring
the existing state of our navigation and marine tunder the
view of the General Government. By tihese regulations the
title can be effectually traced back to its origin."
This object does not require and there is no suggestion in
the statutes that vessels registered or enrolled are exempt from
the ordinary rules respecting taxation of personal property
It is true by sec. 4141 there is created what may be called the
home port of the vessel, an artificial situs, which-may control
the place of taxation in the absence of an actual situ." elsewhere, and to that extent only do the two cases referred to
go.
Mail Steamshp Company, supra, ocean
In Hays v PacifwI
steamers owned and registered in .New York and regularly
plying between Panama and San Francisco and ports in
Oregon, remaining in San Francisco no- longer than was necessary to land and receii e passengers andf cargo and in Benicia
only for repairs and supplies, were held not subject-to taxaticn

OCTOBER TERWI

1904.

Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

by the State of California. In the course of the opinion, by
Mr. Justice Nelson, it was said (p. 599)
"We are satisfied that the State of California had no jurisdidtion over these vessels for the purpose of taxation, they
were not, properly, abiding within its limits, so as to become
incorporated with the other personal property of the State;
they were there but temporarily, engaged in lawful trade and
commerce with their situs at the home port, where the vessels
belonged, and where the owners were liable to be taxed" for
the capital invested, and where the 'taxes had been paid."
Clearly the ruling was that these steamers had acquired no
actual situs within the State of California, that occasionally
touching at ports in the State did not make them incorporated
with the other personal property of the State. Hence, having
no situs in California they were not subject to taxation there,
but were subject to state taxation at the artificial situs established by their registry
In Morgan v Parham, supra, it appeareaI that. a steamship
was registered in'New York, under the ownership of -the plaintiff, that she was employed as a coasting steamer between
Mobile- and New Orleans; that she was regularly enrolled as a
coaster in Mobile by her master and received a license as a
coasting vessel for that and subsequent years. It was held
that she was not subject to taxation by the State of Alabama.
Mr. Justice Hunt, in delivering the opinion of the court, said
(pp. 474, 476)
"The fact that the vessel was physically within the limits
of the city of Mobile, at the time the tax was levied, does not
decide the question. Thus, if a traveler on that day had been
passing through that city in his private carriage, or an emigrant
with his worldly goods on a wagon, it is not contended that the
property of either of these persons would be subject to taxation as property -within the ,city It is conceded by' the- respective counsel that it would not have been.
"On the 'other hand this vessel, although a vehcle of commerce, was not exempt from taxation on that score. A steam-

OLD DOMINION STEAMSHIP CO. v. VIRGINIA. 309
198 U.S.

Opinon of the Court.

boat, or a post-coach engaged in a local business within a
State may be subject to local taxation, although it carry the
mail, of the 'United States. The commerce between the States
may not be interfered with by taxation or other interruption,
It is the
but its instruments and vehicles may be.
opinion of the court that the State of Alabamahad no jurisdiction over this vessel for the purpose of taxation, for the
reason that it had not become incorporated into the personal property of that State, but was there temporarily
only"
In other words, here as in the prior case, there was no actual
situs of the vessel. She had not become commingled with the
general property of the State and was therefore subject to
taxation at the artificial situs, the port of her registry
In Transportation Company v Wheeling, supra, Mr. Justice Clifford concludes his discussion with this statement

(p. 285)
"From which it follows, as a necessary consequence, that
the enrollment of a ship or vessel does not exempt the owner
of the same from taxation for his interest in the ship or vessel
as property, upon a valuation of the same, as in the case of
other personal property"
Of course, if the enrollment does not exempt vessels from
taxation as other personal property, the place of enrollment,
whether within or without the State in which the property is
actually situated, is immaterial, for other like property is
taxable at its actual situs.
So far as the state authorities are concerned reference may
be made to Lott, Tax Collector, v Mobile Trade Company, 43
Alabama, 578, Natwnal Dredgsng Company v The State, 99
Alabama, 462; Northwestern Lumber Company v Chehalis
County, 25 Washington, 95.
Our conclusion isthat where vessels, though engaged- in
interstate commerce, are employed in such commerce wholly
witfin the limits of a State, they are subject to taxation in that
State, although they may have been registered or enrolled at

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

198 U. S.

a port outside its limits. The conclusion, therefore, reached
by the Court of Appeals of Virginia was right, and its judgment
is
Affirmned.

THOMPSON v. DARDEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.
No..159. Argued March 3, 1905.-Decided May 15,1905.

Congress has power to permit, -aid by the act of 1789 and § 4235, Rev.
Stat., has permitted, the several States to adopt pilotage regulations,
,and this court has repeatedly recognized and upheld the validity of state
pilotage laws. The Virinia pilot law is not m conflict with § 4237,
Rev. Stat., prohibiting discriminations because it imposes compulsory
pilotage on all vessels bound in and out through the capes, and does not
impose it on vessels navigating the internal waters of the State; nor can
this objection be sustained on the ground that the navigation of the internal waters of Virginia is more tortuous than that m and out of the
capes.
1,
If a state pilot law does not conflict with the provisions of the Federal
statutes in regard to pilotage this court cannot avoid its provisions because it deems them unwise or unjust.
This court will not investigate or decide a proposition which was no
raised in the court below and is based upon conjecture, even though
the facts suggested xmght have existed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Robert Al. Hughes for plaintiff in error
This statute violates Art. I, § 9, el. 6, U S. Const., which
provides that no preference shall be given by any regulation
of commerce or revenue to the ports of one State over those
of another. -This clause applies both to Federal and state
legislation. PassengerCases, 7 How 414, The Lizzwe Henderson, Fed. Cas. No. 17,726a.
Under § 1965, Virginia Stat., every vessel inward bound
-.

