OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

different, entitles him to a reversal, as the court had power to
take the course it did, and upon a consideration of the whole
case we are sufficiently satisfied with the result, except in the
particulars indicated.
The decree is
Afflrmed, except so far as it fails to allow the sum of $1235.7'y,
in favor of Sunderland and Hillyer against Latta individually, and also the sum of $2986.66, in favor of Sundernand against Kilbour, Zatta and Olmstead; and, as
to the non-allowance of those sums, it is reversed, with
directions to modify said decree by adding them, with interest, in conformity with this opinion ; the costs of this
couwrt to be paid by Jilbourn,Latta and Olmstead; and it
is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD

dissented.

STILLWELL AND BIERCE MANUFACTURING
COMPANY v. PHELPS.
ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 209. Argued March 18, 1889.-Decided April 15, 1889.

When, under a contract to furnish, and to put in complete operation in the
purchaser's mill, machinery of a certain description and quality, for a
price payable partly upon the arrival of the machinery at the mill and
partly after the completion of the work, the machinery furnished and
set up does not, when tested, comply with the requirements of the contract, the purchaser, upon giving notice to the seller that, if the latter
does not "put the mill in repair so that it will do good work," the former will do so, is entitled to deduct, in an action for the unpaid part
of the price, the reasonable cost of altering the construction and setting
of the machinery so as to conform to the contract.
Whether a witness called to testify to any matter of opinion has such qualifications and knowledge as to make his testimony admissible is a preliminary question for the judge presiding at the trial; and his decision of
it is conclusive, unless clearly shown to be erroneous in matter of law.

STILLWELL MANUFACTURING CO. v. PHELPS. 521
Statement of the Case.

Tins was an action by an Ohio corporation against a citizen
of Delavan in the State of Wisconsin, upon a contract in writing, by which the plaintiff agreed "to furnish and put in complete operation for the second party, in his flouring mill at
Delavan aforesaid, one first-class seventy-five barrel capacity
roller-mill complete," including certain machinery specified;
"the first party to use all machinery, belting, etc., etc., now in
said flouring mill that is in proper condition for use, except
what is now in use on the rye and feed side of said mill; all of
said mill, machinery, fixtures and apparatus to be new and firstclass in every way and of latest pattern, except as above specified, and to be completed and put in complete running order
within ninety days from the date hereof;" and the defendant
agreed to pay the plaintiff "for the said mill, fixtures, etc.,
complete as above specified, and put in complete operation in
his flouring mill at Delavan aforesaid," the sum of $9000, as
follows: $3000 " u pon the arrival of said mill and machinery
at his mill in Delavan," $4000 "when said mill is completed
and in running order to the satisfaction of the second party,"
and the remaining $2000 "within ninety days after the completion of the said mill as aforesaid, the first party to start the
mill and see that it is in complete running order."
The complaint alleged the plaintiff's performance of the
contract on its part, the defendant's payment of $3272.417, and
his refusal to pay the balance of _$5727.53, which the plaintiff
sought to recover, with interest. The defendant in his answer
set up by way of defence, and also under a counter-claim for
$11,000, delay on the part of the plaintiff, and defects in the
manufacture and design of the machinery furnished, whereby
the defendant had been put to great expense to complete it so
as to comply with the requirements of the contract, and had
been deprived of the use of his flouring mill and injured in
his business. The plaintiff filed a replication, denying all the
allegations in the counter-claim.
At the trial, the plaintiff introduced 'evidence tending to
show that the machinery was put in the defendant's flouring
mill in compliance with the terms of the contract, except for a'
delay of several weeks, in part chargeable to the defendant's

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

fault, and was tested in February, 1884, with satisfactory
results.
On the question of the damages to which the defendant
was entitled for the delay, the plaintiff called as a witness one
Geissner, who testified that he was the owner and manager of
a roller flouring mill of about seventy-five to one hundred
barrels capacity in an adjoining county, and was personally
familiar with roller mills and the milling business; but had
never seen the defendant's mill, or been in Delavan, and knew
nothing from personal observation or knowledge of the extent
of the custom work of the mill, its business, or product, or of
the water-power.
He was then asked to state the rental value of the mill in
question, in his judgment, during the period in question. The
question was objected to, "because the witness had never seen
and had no personal knowledge of the property in question,
and was therefore incompetent to testify as to rental value."
The court sustained the objection, and the plaintiff excepted
to the ruling.
The witness was then asked to state such rental value,
"upon the supposition that the said mill had a good waterpower and all the business it could attend to, as claimed by
the defendant, and a capacity of manufacturing seventy-five
barrels per day." To this question the same objection was
made, and sustained by the court, and the plaintiff excepted
as before.
The defendant then introduced evidence tending to show
that the machinery and work furnished by the plaintiff did
not comply with the contract, and did not and could not
operate satisfactorily, and that his flouring mill with the
machinery constructed and placed therein by the plaintiff did
not and would not do as good work as other roller mills
of like capacity; that it was necessary, in order to put it in
condition to do such work, to expehd the sum of $2772, incluOd
ing $1100 for the cost of new machinery; and that the defel-:
ant did this after his attorneys bad served upon the plaintiff'::
attorney, and the plaintiff had neglected to comply with, a
notice in these words: "If your clients do not within ten days

STILI WELL MAKUFACTURIXG CO. v. PHELPS.

523

Statement of the Case.

proceed to put the mill in repair so that it will do good work,
11r. Phelps will employ the best millwrights he can obtain and
put the mill in order and charge the expense to your clients."
The court, at the plaintiff's request, gave to the jury the following instructions: "The plaintiff was entitled to a fair test
of the machinery put into the defendant's mill, and nothing
short of that would justify its condemnation. Such a test
requires an ample power to operate the machinery to the best
advantage; and this means the whole of the machinery, if the
jury find that the machinery was designed and intended to be
operated together. It also contemplates competent management by a miller who thoroughly understood such machinery
and was able to manipulate and handle it so as to secure the
best results of which it was capable."
The court also instructed the jury as follows: "If the plaintiff broke this contract by failing to furnish the defendant such
a mill as it was bound to furnish, then the defendant had the
right to give the plaintiff notice that it was required to remedy the defects, and on its failure to do so the defendant could
then proceed and correct the defects himself, so that the mill
should be such as he was entitled to have under the contract,
and charge the reasonable and necessary expenses of the work
to the plaintiff. The limit to which the defendant could go in
that direction is this: He would have the right to make the
mill completely answer the demands of the contract, and
nothing more, that is, a first-class complete roller mill of the
designated capacity, capable of doing as good work as other
first-class roller mills of similar grade and capacity would do
on the same kind of stock. He would only have the right to
incur and make the plaintiff chargeable with such expenses as
were reasonable and necessary to put the mill in that condition. If the system put into the defendant's mill could have
been perfected by alterations in matters of detail so as to
make it first-class, complete, capable of doing the work contemplated by the contract, then the additional work on the
mill should have been limited to such alterations; but if it
could not be thus perfected without more radical changes and
additions, then the defendant had the right to proceed so far

OCTO3ER TEIZMA, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

as actual necessity required, making the expense of the work
as moderate and reasonable as the circumstances permitted."
The plaintiff excepted to this portion of the instructions, for
the reason that "the same authorizes the jury to allow the
defendant, and to deduct from the claim of the plaintiff, as a
part of the expense of changing the mill over so as to make it
conform to the contract, the cost of the new machinery put
into the mill, amounting t6 $1100."
The jury returned a verdict by which "they find the issue
herein in favor of the defendant, but that the defendant is not
entitled to recover damages against the plaintiff in excess of
the plaintiff's claim against the defendant." Judgment was
rendered on the verdict, and the plaintiff sued out this writ
of error.
.Mr.G. F. Hazleton for plaintiff in error.
I. Under contracts of the description of that in dispute in
this case, where the thing furnished is to be satisfactory to
the purchasing party and he neglects to return or to offer
to return it, but takes it into possession and uses it either in
the shape in which it is, or for the purpose of making it over
into something different, he thereby obligates himself to pay
for it at the contract price, and is not at liberty to recoup
the cost of such reconstruction in an action for the price.
eCar en v. .Mc ulty, 7 Gray, 139; Brown v. -Pbster, 113
Mv[ass. 136; Wood Reaping Machine Co. v. Smith, 50 Mich. 565;
Hallidiev. Sutter Street Railroad,63 California, 575 ; Hofman
v. Gallaher,6 Daly, 42; Singerly v. Tliayer', 108 Penn. St. 291;
Silsby lfManuf. Co. v. Mico, 24 Fed. Rep. 893; TcClure v.
-Briggs,58 Vermont, 82; Balt. & Ohio Railroad v. Br'iydon,
65 Maryland, 198; McCormick .Machine Co. v. Chesrown, 33
Minnesota, 32; Gray v. Central Railroad of NSew Jersey, 11
Hun, 70.
The defendant being under no legal duty to accept the
inachiner~v, which could be enforced,- in other Words, having
the power to accept or reject, - the case stands as if the plaintill in erfot had left with the defendant an article at a given

STILLWELL

1ANUFACTURING

00. v. PHELPS. 525

Citations for Defendant in Error.

price to examine and test subject to approval. Witherby v.
Sleeper, 101 Mass. 138; Eairfield v. .Madison Manufacturing
Co., 38 Wisconsin, 346; Dewey v. Erie Borough, 14 Penn. St.
211; S C. 53 Am. Dec. 533; Spickler v. -Marsh,36 Maryland,
222; PrairieFarmer Co. v. Taylor, 69 Illinois, 440.
II. But if it be held that the contract in this case is subject
to a different rule from that laid down in the cases already
cited, in other words, that these cases do not state the law,
then we claim that the doctrine invoked by the defendant
ought not to be applied to this case: 1st. Because the notice
served does not convey any intimation of such expenditures as
were charged: 2d. Because such alleged damages were manifestly not within the contemplation of the parties: 3d. Because the rule invoked by the defendant is not the proper test
and measure of damages in such case. White v. Brockway,
40 Michigan, 209; fferrill v. iVightingale, 39 Wisconsin, 250;
Boothby v. Scales, 27 Wisconsin, 626; Bonnell v. Jacobs, 36
Wisconsin, 59.
III. It has long been the settled doctrine of the State of
Wisconsin that a party may return or offer to return an article
which does not comply with the terms of the warranty, and
recover back what he has paid. Floodle v. Whitney, 23 Wisconsin, 55.
IV. A question is raised as to the admissibility of Geissner's
testimony to show the.rental value of the mill. The plaintiff
in error submits that this evidence ought not to have been
excluded. Butler v. .Mehrling, 15 Illinois, 488; Afonso v.
United States, 2 Story, 421; Sturgis v. Hnapp, 33 Vermont,
486; Whitbeck v. N. Y. Central Railroad Co., 36 Barb. 644;
Whitney v. Thatcher, 117 Mass. 523; Cliquot's Champagne, 3
Wall. 114.
.Ar. John T. .Fish, for defendant in error, cited; Snyder v.
Western Union Railroad Co., 25 Wisconsin, 60; C7ark v.
Baird,9 N. Y. (5 Selden) 183; Teerpenning v. Corn Exchange
Insurance Co., 43 N. Y. 278; Lincoln v. Saratoga & Schenectady Railroad,23 Wend. 425; Brill v. Flagler,23 Wend. 354;
Vorman v. Wells, 17 Wend. 136; Lamoure v. Caryl, 4 Denio,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

370; Transportation Line v. He,
95 U. S. 297; Stone v.
Covell, 29 Michigan, 359; Olark v. Rockland Water Power
Co., 52 Maine, 68; Westlake v. St. Lawrence Ins. Co., 14 Barb.
206; Tucker v. Mass. Central -RailroadCo., 118 Mass. 546;
Pennsylvania Company v. Roy, 102 U. S. 451.
MR. JUSTICE. GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal position taken in the argument for the plaintiff is that the defendant, having received and retained the
machinery furnished under the contract sued on, was bound
to pay the contract price; and in support of this position
cases were cited, holding that under a contract to manufacture
or to furnish a chattel satisfactory to the purchaser, the purchaser, if he takes possession of and uses it, thereby conclusively
accepts it as satisfactory, and binds himself to pay the whole
contract price.
Considering the instructions given at the plaintiff's own
request, and the grounds on which the plaintiff excepted to
the other instructions of the court, it is, to say the least, doubtful whether this point is open. But, assuming it to be open,
it clearly cannot be sustained, and the cases cited are inapplicable.
The plaintiff's agreement was not for a sale of the machinery,
subject to a condition that it should be satisfactory to the purchaser. But it was an agreement, not only to furnish machinery of a certain description and quality, but also to set
it up and put it in complete operation in the defendant's mill.
The machinery was to be erected on the defendant's land and
made part of his mill; and one instalment of the price was to
be paid on the delivery of the machinery there, and before the
plaintiff had completed the work to the satisfaction of the
defendant. In such a case, it would be most unreasonable to
compel the defendant, in order to entitle him to avoid paying
the whole contract price, or to recover damages for the plaintiff's breach of contract, to undergo the expense of taking out
the machinery, and the prolonged interruption of his business

BUTLER v. BOSTON STEAMSHIP CO.
Syllabus.

during the time requisite to obtain new machinery elsewhere.
The rule of damages, adopted by the court below, of deducting
from the contract price the reasonable cost of altering the
construction and setting of the machinery so as to make it
conform to the contract, is the only one that would do full
and exact justice to both parties, and is in accordance with the
decisions upon similar contracts. Benjamin v. flillard, 23
How. 149; Railroad Co. v. Smith, 21 Wall. 255; ]Marsh v.
XfPherson, 105 U. S. 709, 717; Cutler v. Close, 5 Car. & P.
337; Thornton v. Place, 1 Mood. & Rob. 218; Allen v. Cameron, 3 Tyrwh. 907; S. C. 1 Or. & M. 832.
The notice given by the defendant to the plaintiff "to put
the mill in repair so as to do good work" was sufficient to
cover all alterations necessary to accomplish that end.
No error is shown in tho exclusion of Geissner's testimony
as to the rental value of a mill which he had never seen and
knew nothing of. Whether a witness called to testify to any
matter of opinion has such qualifications and knowledge as
to make his testimony admissible is a preliminary question for
the judge presiding at the trial; and his decision of it is conclusive, unless clearly shown to be erroneous in matter of law.
Perkins v. Stickney, 132 Mass. 217, and cases cited; Sorg v.
First German Congregation,63 Penn. St. 156.
Judgment afirmed.

BUTLER v. BOSTON AND SAVANNAH STEAMSHIP

COMPANY.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICI OF MASSACHUSETTS.
I'os. 244, 340. Argued April 10, 11, 1889.-Decided April 22,1889.

The provision in Rev. Stat. ยง 4283, limiting the liability of the owner of a
vessel, applies to cases of personal injury and death, as well as to cases
of loss of or injury to property.

