UNITED STATES v. RIAYNES.
Statement of the Case.

plaintiff's counsel that the requests would not be given, and
there was no opportunity for counsel to except to the failure
of the court to charge as requested until the instructions were
given to the jury. The exceptions, therefore, contained in
NTos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 were not taken or noted during the trial."
But the bill of exceptions also states: "V. The court instructed the jury to return a verdict for the defendant. VI. The
jury returned a verdict in accordance with said instructions,
and judgment was thereupon entered up in behalf of defendant in pursuance of said instructions; and to said instructions,
verdict and judgment, the plaintiff, by his counsel, excepted
and now excepts, during the term at which said case was tried
and while said term is still in session, and assigns the same as
error, and prays the court to sign and certify this exception."
We understand from this language, taken together, that
the general instruction of the court to find for the defendant
was excepted to at the proper time; and while greater accuracy of expression should have been used, we are not inclined by too technical a construction to preclude ourselves
from correcting the error we hold was committed. The judgment is
Reversed and the caase remanled, with directions to grant a
new trial.

UINITED STATES v. HAYNES.
ERROR TO THE OIRcUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 273. Submitted April 24, 18S.- Decided May 13,1889.
An action on the official bond of a collector of customs is not one of which
this court has appellate jurisdiction, under ยง 699 of the Revised Statutes,
without regard to the sum or value in dispute.

Tis was an action brought by the United States against
the principal and sureties on the official bond of a collector of
customs, to recover the sum of $634.60, which he had refused

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

to pay over, and claimed the right to retain as part of the
emoluments of his office. The Circuit Court gave judgment
for the defendants, and the United States sued out this writ
of error, which the defendants in error moved to dismiss for
want of jurisdiction.
Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
.Mr.
Mrf. Charles T. Ogden for defendants in error.
MR.JusTicE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The motion to dismiss must be granted. The amount in
dispute is less than $5000; and the case does-not come within
any of the classes specified in ยง 699 of the Revised Statutes,
in which this court has appellate jurisdiction without regard
to the sum or value in dispute. The only subdivisions which
could possibly be supposed to cover this case are the second
and third.
The second subdivision relates to judgments "in any civil
action brought by the United States for the enforcement of
any revenue law thereof ;" and, as was directly adjudged in the
recent case of United States i. Hill, 123 U. S.681, a suit upon
an official bond is not an action for the enforcement of a revenue law of the United States.
The tlhird subdivision relates to judgments "in any civil
action against any officer of the revenue, for any act done by
him in the performance of his official duty, or for the recovery
of any money exacted by or paid to him which shall have
been paid into the Treasury." This applies only to suits,
whether sounding in tort or in contract, brought by individuals or corporations against officers of the revenue acting on
behalf of the United States, and does not include any suit
brought by the United States against one of those officers.
It has regard to actions in which the interest of the United
States is as defendants, not as plaintiffs.
Writ of error dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

