OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

as before stated,) and that the purchasers would be entitled to
a deed of said lands, and the sales would become absolute at
the expiration of fifteen months, unless previously redeemed
as prescribed by the statute of Michigan.
It is possible that these sales may complicate the inquiry to
be made by the court upon the supplemental proceedings of
the appellant; but we do not see that they can preclude such
proceedings. It is not shown that the purchasers have advanced any money on the faith of the purchases; and it is
possible that the appellant can show that they were made for
the benefit of the appellee; in either case, the sales would be
liable to be set aside on the reversal of the decree. Should the
Circuit Court deem it proper to require that the purchasers be
made parties to the supplemental proceedings, the facts of the
case could be fully elicited, and right could be done without
prejudice to any of the parties.
Our decision is that the cause be reinanded to the Circuit
Court, with instructions to allow the appellant,defendant
below, to fle such supplemental bill as he may be advised,
in the nature of a bill of review, orfor thepurpose of suspending or avoiding th-e decree, upon the new matter arisingfi-om,the reversal of the decree in the former case of
Anson Searls v. Alva Worden and John S. Worden, and
that such proceedings be had thereon as justice and equity
may require: And it is so ordered.

COLLINS COMPANWY v. COES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOE

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 164. Argued January 10, 11, 1889.-Decided March 5,1889.
The first claim in reissued letters patent No. 5294, granted February 25,
1873, to the Collins Company, as assignee of Lucius Jordan and Leander
E. Smith, for an improvement in wrenches, was only the application to
the bar of the Coes wrench, (which was an existing patented invention

COLLINS CO. v. COES.
Statement of the Case.
at the date of the alleged invention of Jordan and Smith,) for the purpose of securing and supporting the step, and resisting the strain of a
nut already in use on the Hewitt or Dixie wrench; and as such it lacks
the novelty of invention requisite to support a patent within the recent
decisions of this court; and this conclusion is not affected by the fact
that in complainant's wrench the screw-rod of the Coes wrench is
availed of instead of the screw-sleeve of the Dixie wrench.
The second claim in said reissue is for "the nut F, combined with the
wrench-bar, and interiorly recessed at (7, for the purpose set forth."
Some years later the patentee filed in the Patent Office a disclaimer thereto
"except when said recessed nut and wrench-bar are in combination with
the handle G, the step or step-plate B, the screw-rod C, and the movable
jaw B of the wrench, substantially as is shown and described in said last
mentioned reissued letters patent," being the reissue in question; Held,
that whether this qualified disclaimer was or was not effectual, it was, in
view of the fact that the screw-rod and movable jaw of the patent had
no different effect from the screw-sleeve and movable jaw of the prior
Dixie wrench upon the other parts of the combination, an admission that
the second claim of the patent is void for want of novelty.
The third claim of the patent is also void for want of novelty.

I
QUIrrY.
follows:

The court in its opinion stated the case as

The Collins Company of Connecticut, a corporation located
at Collinsville, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, brought this suit in equity in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of M assachusetts, against
Loring Coes and Melvin 0. Whittier, partners in business at
Worcester, in Worcester County, Massachusetts, in the name
and style of Loring Coes & Company, for the alleged infringement of reissued letters patent No. 5294, dated February 25,
1873, for an improvement in wrenches, issued to the Collins
Company as assignee of Lucius Jordan and Leander E. Smith,
said reissued letters patent being based upon original letters
patent dated October 10, 1865, No. 50,364. There had also
been a reissue February 22, 1870.
The specification and accompanying drawings of the reissue
No. 5294 are as follows:
"The object of this invention is the prevention of end thrust
or back pressure on the wooden handles of wrenches, which
has heretofore availed to quickly destroy such wooden handles,

OCTOBER TERMT, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

and, in destroying the handles, has left the working parts of
the wrench which depended upon the handles for support
without such support, so as to injure and effectually impair
their working qualities and efficiency, and is accomplished by
so connecting the step which forms a bearing for the lower
end of the screw-rod with the bar which forms the main part
of the wrench that the back pressure upon the step by the
screw-rod will be directly transmitted to the wrench-bar at
the place of connection therewith, and will not be transmitted
to and mainly put upon the wooden handle.
"Figure 1 is a side view of the whole wrench, the part
below the dotted line = being in section. Fig. 2 is a top or
plan view of the step which forms a bearing for the lower end
of the screw-rod.

"The letter A indicates the wrench-bar, flat-sided down to
the under side of the step E, and from thence downward cylindrical or of other convenient shape, so as to take upon it the
wooden handle G. B is the movable jaw. The letter C indi-cates the screw-rod, and D the rosette by which it is turned.
The letter E indicates the step, in which is the bearing s for
the lower end of the screw-rod, and also the hole a to admit
the bar A, and fitting up against the shoulder b. On the bar
A, just below the step E, is cut the screw-thread i, on which
screws the nut F, forming a projection from the wrench-bar,
on which rests the step E, and thus transmits the back pressure put upon the step directly to the wrench bar at the place

COLLINS CO. v. COES.
Statement of the Case.

of connection therewith, and thus relieves the wooden handle
therefrom, the connection of the step with the bar being made
in such manner that the step may be removed or taken off the
bar without any cutting or abrasion of parts.
"The nut not only supports the step, but can be made to
rigidly fasten the step to the bar by screwing it firmly up
against the step, so as to gripe it between itself an- the
shoulder 6, thus giving the nut, so to speak, a double office,
viz., that of supporting the step, and, also, that of fastening it
rigidly to the bar. The nut is interiorly recessed at d, for the
purpose of forming a ferrule for the top of the wooden handle.
"Heretofore the part designed to perform the office of the
step E has rested directly on the wooden handle, which was
secured upon the bar by a. light nut o, at the lower extremity
of the bar, which is the present method of fastening on the
handle.
"It is known that, previous to this invention, steps have
been forged or otherwise produced solid with the bar, and this
became as much a part of it as the solid head at extremity of
bar, and also by riveting to reach similar result; but such
method, by making a permanent fastening, renders it impossible, or a work of great difficulty, to displace the step in order
to remove the sliding jaw for repairs. It will be observed
that, while Jordan and Smith's.method of fastening is as firm
as the permanent fastenings last above referred to, their step
can readily be removed and again put in place at pleasure.
"It is believed that Smith and Jordan were the first to
secure easy divisibility of step and bar, together with a fixed
or stationary step when in position, and at the same time
supporting the step when in position immediately by the bar,
and not immediately through the handle, as the manner had
been.
"As a matter of definition, the Jordan and Smith method
of fastening and supporting the step when in position is
denominated ' removable ' hereinafter in contradistinction from
a connection and support made by forging or otherwise producing the step in one solid piece with the bar, and, therefore,
a part of it, or by riveting it thereto, or the like.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

"c aims.

"1. The step, combined with the wrench-bar and supported
by the nut F, or its equivalent, at the place where the step is
connected with the bar, in such manner that the step can be
removed from the bar without cutting or abrasion of parts.
"2. The nut F, combined with the wrench-bar, -nd interiorly recessed at d, for the purpose set forth.
"3. The nut F, combined with the threaded bar, and performing the office of supporting the step, and also of rigidly
fastening it to the bar, for the purpose set forth."
April 16, 1841, a patent issued to Loring Coes for what
has since always been known as the Coes wrench, and this
was reissued June 26, 1849. The specification and drawings
of the reissue are as follows:
"Figure 1 is an elevation of my improved wrench, and figure 2 an elevation of a wrench previously known but not of
my invention.
"In my improved wrench the inner jaw slides on the bar
of the permanent jaw and handle, and is moved by a screw at
the side of the bar, operated by a head or rosette, which
always remains in the same position relatively to the handle,
whereby the movable jaw can be adjusted with the thumb of
the hand, which grasps and 1.olds the handle. The principle
or character of my invention, and that which distinguishes it
from all other things before known, consists in moving the
adjustable jaw by means of a screw placed at the side of and
parallel with the bar of the permanent jaw and handle, when
the required rotation for sliding the jaw is given by a rosette
or head, or the equivalent thereof, which retains the same
position relatively to the handle; and my invention also consists in retaining the required position of the rosette or its
equivalent, by which the required motion is given tc the sliding jaw, by having its periphery to work in a notch or recess
in the bar of the permanent jaw and handle, or vice versa.
"In the accompanying drawings A represents a quadrangular bar of metal with a permanent or hammer jaw 0 at one
end, the other end being reduced in size to pass through a handle

COLLINS CO. c. COES.
Statement of the Case.

L, secured to it by a nut A.

Between the ferule of the

handle and the shoulder of the bar an iron plate I is griped

by the securing of the handle on to the bar, and this plate
extends out sufficiently beyond the bar to receive the journal
K (see dotted lines) of a screw F, which is placed parallel

with and by the side of the bar. This screw is tapped into a
tubular piece D that projects from the back face of the
adjustable jaw B, which is fitted to slide on the bar from or
towards the permanent jaw C, the rear end of the tubular
projection D being provided with and sustained by a bridle
E, which embraces and slides on the bar. At the rear end
the screw is provided with a head or rosette G, the periphery
of which turns in a notch or recess H made in the edge of the
bar, as shown by dotted lines, by which the position of the said
rosette is retained relatively to the handle. The hand, represented by dotted lines, indicates the manner in which my improved wrench is operated. The handle is grasped by the
fingers, and the rosette is operated by the thumb of the same
hand, so that, without any change in the position of the hand,
the movable jaw can be moved towards or from the permanent
jaw, to set the wrench to any size required, with one hand.
"By means of my improvement the bar can be made of any
desired form best adapted to the sliding jaw and to strength.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

The rosette or its equivalent employed for operating the jaw
is always retained in the same position relatively to the hand
that gripes the handle. At the- same time, the use of two
bearings for the screw is avoided.
"The advantages of my improved wrench over other methods
of construction will be seen by comparison with the wrench
represented by figure 2 of the accompanying drawings.
"What I claim as my invention and desire to secure by
letters patent is moving the sliding jaw by a screw, combined
with and placed by the side of and parallel with the bar of
the permanent jaw and handle, substantially as described,
when the required rotation for sliding the jaw is given by the
head or rosette, (or its equivalent,) which retains the same position relatively to the handle during the operation, substantially
as described. And I also claim moving the sliding jaw by
a screw, combined with and placed by the side of and parallel
with the bar of the permanent jaw and handle, substantially
as described, in combination with the rosette or its equivalent,
retained in its position relatively to the hand in the manner
described."
It appears from the evidence that during the years 1851 to
1854, E. F. Dixie was manufacturing, to the extent of from
two hundred to four hundred wrenches per week of various
sizes, a wrench known as the Hewitt wrench, which wrench
contained a recessed nut screwed upon the wrench-bar just
above the wooden handle, for the purpose of relieving the
handle from back pressure put upon the step, and of serving
as a ferrule for the upper end of the wooden handle. It had
an adjusting screw-sleeve instead of the adjusting screw-rod of
the Coes wrench, but was otherwise substantially the same.
The following diagrams give the various wrenches referred
to on the argument:

COLLINS CO. v. COES.
Statement of the Case.

Defendants' Manufacture Complained of.

Complainant's Patented Wrench.

Dixie Wrench, Manufactured 1851-1854.

Coca' Wrench, Original Manufacture, before and since 1850.

Coes' Wrench, Patented April 16,1841.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
ztatement of the Case.

On the 9th of August, 1880, the Collins Company filed a
disclaimer in the Patent Office, stating: "Further, that said
The Collins Company has reason to believe that through inadvertence and mistake the second clause of claim made ia said
last-mentioned reissued letters patent, in the following words,
to wit, '2, The nut F, combined with the wrench-bar, and
interiorly recessed at d, for the purpose set forth,' is too broad,
including that of which said Jordan and Smith were not the
first inventors. Said The Collins Company therefore hereby
enters its disclaimer to ' the nut F, combined with the wrenchbar, and interiorly recessed at d, for the purpose set forth,'
except when said recessed nut and wrench-bar are in combination with the handle G, the step or step-plate E, the
screw-rod 0, and the movable jaw B of the wrench, substantially as is shown and described in said last-mentioned
reissued letters patent," being the reissue in quest-ion.
The defendants contend that the patent in suit did not
disclose a patentable invention in view of the prior state of
the art; that the reissue described and claimed a different
invention from that for which the original patent was granted;
that the reissue was taken too long after the date of the original patent to be permitted upon equitable grounds; and that
there was no infringement.
The Circuit Court originally granted an interlocutory decree
in favor of the plaintiff, in accordance with the opinion of
Judge Lowell, reported in 5 Bann. & Ard. Pat. Cas. 548, and
3 Fed. Rep. 225. But a rehearing was afterwards moved for
and granted, the interlocutory decree vacated, and the bill
dismissed, for the reasons stated in the opinion of ]Xr. Justice
Gray, presiding in the circuit, in a similar suit by the plaintiff
against other defendants, which opinion was as follows:
"This is a bill in equity for th3 infringement of the first
claim in the specification of the second reissue to the complainant, dated February 25, 1873, of letters patent originally
issued to Lucius Jordan and Leander E. Smith, on October 10,
1865, for an improvement in wrenches.
"The wrench, as described, both in the original patent and
in the reissue, has the following parts: The wrench-bar A, the

COLLINS CO. v. COES.
Statement of the Case.

upper part of which is of the usual shape, and has attached to
it the movable jaw B, and the lower part of which is of convenient form to receive upon it the wooden handle; a screwrod C, parallel to the main bar; a rosette D, at the lower
end of the screw-rod, by means of which the movable jaw is
worked; a ferrule or step E, having a hole through it for the
admission of the bar, and a recess in its upper face as a bearing for the lower end of the screw-rod; a nut F, screwed on
a thread in the bar, under the step, and having a recess in its
under face to receive the top of the wooden handle G; and
the wooden handle secured at its lower end to the main bar
by a nut in the usual way.
"Both the original patent and the reissue state that the
object of the invention is to make the strain come upon the
nut F instead of coming upon the wooden handle. The original patent states that the nut F is, and the reissue states that
it may be, screwed up firmly against the step E. The reissue
affirms and repeats that the distinguishing characteristic of
the invention is that the step can be readily removed and
replaced at pleasure. There is no hint of such a distinction in
the original patent.
"The first claim of the original patent is for 'the step E,
made substantially as described, and for the purpose set forth.'
The corresponding claim in the reissue is for 'the step, combined with the wrench-bar, and supported by the nut F, or its
equivalent, at the place where the step is connected with the
bar, in such manner that the step can be removed from the
bar without cutting or abrasion of parts.'
"The parallel screw-rod, with a rosette thereon to work the
movable jaw, and resting upon a ferrule or step, had been
introduced in the original Coes wrench, patented in 1841; and,
long before the issue of the patent to Jordan and Smith in
1865, large numbers of the Hewitt or Dixie wrench had been
made and sold, in which there was no separate screw-rod, and
the screw that worked the movable jaw revolved on the main
bar, but that screw rested on a ferrule or step, which was
secured sometimes by driving it on under heavy pressure, an
sometimes by a nut screwed under it on the bar,
voL. c=-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

"The application to the bar of the Goes wrench, for the
purpose of securing and supporting the step, and resisting
the strain, of a nut already in use for the same purpose, on
the Hewitt or Dixie wrench, lacks the novelty of invention
requisite to support a patent, within the decisions of the
Supreme Court at the last term, which have, in effect, overruled the earlier decision of this court in the suit of this coniplainant against Loring Coes and others, reported in 5 Bann.
& Ard. Pat. Gas. 548. Pensylvcnia Railroadv. ]ocomotire
Engine Safety Truck Co., 110 U. S. 490; Bussey v. Excelsior
.anuf. Co., 110 U. S. 131; Double-Pointed Tack Co. v. Two
Rivers 91fan.
Co., 109 U. S. 117; P'hillips v. -Detroit,111

U. S.604:.
"The complainant's patent being void for want of novelty,
it becomes unnecessary to consider the other defences.
"Bill dismissed, with costs."
f r. William Edgar Simonds for appellant.
.r.

George L. Roberts for appellees.

MR.

CmEF JUsTIcE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
We concur with the Circuit Court in its disposition of this
case and the grounds upon which it rested its decision.
The wrench-bar, the fixed jaw upon its upper end, the
movable jaw sliding upon the wrench-bar, the screw-rod parallel with the wrench-bar, the rosette upon the lower end of
the screw-rod, the step-plate surrounding the wrench-bar, the
wooden handle secured by the nut at its extreme lower end,
are all described in the patent to Goes; and the nut screwed
upon the wrench-bar just below the step-plate, and provided
with a recess for the purpose of forming a ferrule for the top
of the wooden handle, which is not in the Goes patent, but is
in complainant's reissue, had already been in use in the Hewitt
or Dixie wrench for the same purposes. The disclaimer conceded that "the nut F, combined with the wrench-bar, and

COLLINS CO. v. COES.

•

Opinion of the Court.

interiorly recessed at d, for the purpose set forth" was an old
device; but it is claimed that the device is new when the recessed nut and wrench-bar are in combination with the handle,
the step, the screw-rod and the movable jaw. The handle,
the step, the screw-rod and the jaw are all to be found in the
Coes and Dixie wrenches, and the recessed nut of the Dixie
wrench constituted, by the shoulder which it made at its upper
end, a step upon which the screw rested, and served every purpose designated in the reissued patent in suit as intended to be
secured by such recessed nut. This in itself justified the finding that "the application to the bar of the Coes wrench, for
the purpose of securing and supporting the step and resisting
the strain, of a nut already in use, for the same purpose, on
the Hewitt or Dixie wrench, lacks the novelty of invention
requisite to support a patent." This conclusion is not affected
by the fact that in complainant's wrench the screw-rod of the
Coes wrench is availed of instead of the screw-sleeve of the
Dixie wrench.
Complainant's first claim is as follows: "1. The step, combined with the wrench-bar and supported by the nut F, or its
equivalent, at the place where the step is connected with the
bar; in such manner that the step can be removed from the
bar without cutting or abrasion of parts." The specification
says: "On the bar A, just below the step E, is cut the screw
thread i, on which screws the nut F, forming a projection from
the wrench-bar, on which rests the step E, and thus transmits
the back pressure put upon the step directly to the wrench-bar
at the place of connection therewith, and thus relieves the
wooden handle therefrom, the connection of the step with the
bar being made in such manner that the step may be removed
or taken off the bar without any cutting or abrasion of parts."
The elements of this combination are the support of the
step by the nut F, the transmission of back pressure directly
to the wrench-bar through that nut, and the removability of
the step without cutting or abrasion of parts. Now the Dixie
wrench contained the nut F, screwed on the wrench-bar, and
transmitting the back pressure directly to it, and removable.
without cutting or abrasion, by being simply unscrewed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The second claim is: "The nut F, combined with the wrenchbar, and interiorly recessed at d, for the purpose set forth."
This, as so stated, was disclaimed, except when said recessed
nut and wrench-bar are in combination with the handle, the
step, the screw-rod and the movable jaw.
It was said in lHailes v. Albany Styve Conpany, 123 U. S.
582, 587, the court speaking through Mr. Justice Bradley: "A
disclaimer is usually and properly employed for the surrender
of a separate claim in a patent, or some other distinct and
separable matter, which can be exseinded without mutilating
or changing what is left standing. Perhaps it may be used to
limit a claim to a particular class of objects, or even to change
the form of a claim which is too broad in its terms; but certainly it cannot be used to change the character of the invention. And if it requires an amended specification or supplemental description to make an altered claim intelligible or
relevant, whilst it may possibly present a case for a surrender
and reissue, it is clearly not adapted to a disclaimer."
The complainant's qualified disclaimer is an admission that
the second claim of the patent is void for want of novelty,
which is true, even if the qualification were effectual, since, as
we have seen, the screw-rod and movable jaw of the patent
have no different effect from the screw-sleeve and movable
jaw of the prior Dixie wrench, upon the other parts of the
combination.
The other claim is: "13. The nut F, combined with the
threaded bar, and performing the office of supporting the
step, and also of rigidly fastening it to the bar, for the purpose set forth." The specification says: "The nut not only
supports the step, but can be made to rigidly fasten the step
to the bar by screwing it firmly up against the step, so as to
gripe it between itself and the shoulder b, thus giving the nut,
so to speak, a double office, viz., that of supporting the step,
and, also, that of fastening it rigidly to the bar. The nut is
interiorly recessed at d, for the purpose of forming a ferrule
for the top of the wooden handle." The purpose of supporting the step by the nut F, and fastening the step rigidly to the
wrench-bar by means of that nut, is the relief of the wooden

ARKANSAS CATTLE CO. q). MANN.
Syllabus.

handle from the strain of back pressure. In the Dixie wrench
the step and nut were made of one and the same piece of
metal, thereby fully attaining the object of holding the stepplate rigidly fastened in position. In the Coes wrench the
step was rigidly fastened to the bar by being griped between a
shoulder above it and upon the bar and the handle below it,
which was backed up by the nut screwed upon the lower extremity of the bar. Dispensing with a washer between a nut
and that upon which it acts, makes no change in the office of
the nut. The action of the nut M of the Coes wrench in griping the step-plate is the same as that of the nut F of the patent.
This third claim is also void for want of novelty.
The decree of the Circuit Court is afflrmed.

ARKANSAS VALLEY LAND AND CATTLE COMPANY v. MANN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 147. Argued January 4, 7, 1889.- Decided March 5, 1889.

If the trial court makes the decision of a motion for a new trial depend
upon a remission of the larger part of the verdict, this is not a re-examination by the court of facts tried by the jury in a mode not known at the
common law; and is no violation of the Seventh Article of Amendment
to the Constitution.
An order overruling a motion for a new trial after the plaintiff, by leave of
court, has remitted a part of the verdict, is not subject to review by this
court upon a writ of error sued out by the party against whom the
verdict is rendered.
A recital in an instrument between two parties that one party, the owner
of a great number of cattle, had, on the day of its execution, " sold"
the cattle to the other party, followed by clauses guaranteeing the
title, and providing the mode in which the buyer was to make payment, contains all the elements of an actual sale, as distinguished from
an executory contract.
A provision in a bill of sale of cattle, that the seller shall retain possession

