OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

relations of the old and new corporations, and deciding according to the justice of the case. Here we are bound by statute;
and not by the state statute alone, but by the act of Congress,
which obliges us to follow the state statute and state practice.
The Federal courts are bound hand and foot, and are compelled and obliged by the Federal legislature to obey the state
law; and according to this law the judgment of the Circuit
Court was correct and is, therefore,
Affrmed.

AIVY v. WATERTOWN.

(No. 2.)

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 197. Argued March 13, 1889.-

Decided April 8, 1889.

The general rule respecting statutes of limitation is that the language of
the act must prevail, and that no reason based on apparent inconvenience

or hardship will justify a departure from it.
Cases considered in which courts of equity and some courts of law have held
that the running of the statute was suspended on the ground of fraud.
Cases considered in which courts of law have held the operation of the
statute suspended for want of parties, or because the law prohibits the
bringing of an action.
Inability to serve process upon a defendant, caused by his designed elusion
of it, is no excuse for not commencing an action within the prescribed
period.

THis was an action to recover upon bonds issued by a municipal corporation. Judgment that the cause of action was
barred by the statute of limitations. The plaintiffs sued out
this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr. George P. Miller for plaintiffs in error.
X.i. George W. Bird and Afr. Daniel -Hallfor defendant in
error.
Alu.

JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for a money demand brought by the plaintiffs in error against the defendant, the city of Watertown.

AMY v. WATERTOWn7.

No. 2.

Opinion of the Court.

A summons was sued out against the city on the 19th of June,
1883, and seived by the marshal on the 26th of the same month
by delivering a copy to the city clerk, the city attorney, and
to the last elected chairman of the board f street commissioners. Appearance to the action was entered by the attorneys of the city, and a copy of the complaint was demanded.
The complaint was duly filed, and set forth the issue by the
city, of three bonds for one thousand dollars each, bearing
date respectively the first day of June, 1856, and payable on
the first day of January, 1877, with interest thereon at the
rate of eight per cent per annum, payable semi-annually, and
with coupons annexed, to represent the successive instalments
of interest. The plaintiffs prayed judgment for the amount of
said bonds and of the last ten coupons on each. The defendant, in its answer, set up as a defence that the several causes
of action did not, nor did either of them, accrue within six
years next before the commencement of the action; that being
the time within which actions upon bonds and coupons must
be commenced in the State of Wisconsin. To this answer the
plaintiffs replied (by way of an amendment to their complaint)
as follows:
"Said plaintiffs allege, on information and belief, that the
said defendant, the city of Watertown, and the officers, agents,
and citizens and residents of said city did, subsequent to the
first day of March, A.D. 1873, conspire together, and with each
other, and ever since have conspired together, and with each
other, for the purpose and with the preconceived intent and
design to defraud these plaintiffs and all other owners and
holders of the bonds and coupons to such bonds issued by said
city, and to prevent these plaintiffs and other holders and
ov ners of said bonds and coupons from obtaining the service
of process on said city.
"Said plaintiffs further allege, on information and belief,
that each year since the first day of IMarch, 1873, a mayor of
said city was elected, as required by law, but said mayor each
year, with the Intent and design as aforesaid, qualified as
hereinafter mentioned and immediately thereafter placed his
resignation in the hands of the city clerk of said city to
VOL. Cx-ox-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

be fied by him in case of emergency, and to take effect
accordingly.
"Said plaintiffs further allege, on information and belief,
that each year iince the first day of March, 1873, after the
mayor and members of the common council had been elected,
they and each of them failed to qualify until they had assembled together in a secret place with locked doors, unknown to
the people at large and to these plaintiffs, and with persons
on watch to inform them of the approach of any person or
persons, and then and there, if unmolested, the mayor and the
members of the common council, qualified as required by law,
transacted for said defendant city certain necessary business,
and thereafter immediately filed with the city clerk of said
city their respective resignations, to take effect immediately,
and which resignations went immediately into effect.
"Said plaintiffs further allege that since the first day of
March, 1873, they have employed attorneys and agents for the
purpose of ascertaining who was the mayor or acting mayor
or chairman of the common council or chairman of the board
of street commissioners and for the purpose of having process
served on said city; but owing to said conspiracy, as these
plaintiffs are informed and believe, since the first day of March,
1873, there has been no mayor of said city except each year
-for a few hours at such secret and concealed meetings, and the
common council of said city, with the said fraudulent intent
and design, has failed each year to elect a chairman of said
common council, and since said last-mentioned date there has
been no person who was acting mayor and no chairman of the
board of street commissioners..
"Said plaintiffs further allege that, notwithstanding they
have used due diligence and have hired attorneys and agents
for the purpose of having process served on said city, they
have been unable to this date to serve or have served the summons in this action on the mayor of said city or on that person who by law should exercise the functions of mayor of said
I
city."
The defendants thereupon filed an amended. answer, again
setting up the statute of limitations, and averring that the

AM1IY v. WATERTOWN.

No. 2.

Opinion of the Court.

'aintiffs did not commence, or attempt to commence, said
.ction, or use any diligence whatever to commence the same,
before the 19th of June, 1883.
To this answer the plaintiffs demurred, and the court below
overruled the demurrer and allowed the plaintiffs twenty days
to file such further pleadings as they might deem proper. As
the plaintiffs failed to plead further, judgment was entered for
the defendant. To this judgment the present writ of error is
brought.
It will be observed that the plaintiffs do not pretend that
they commenced the action within the legal peribd of six
years after the several causes of action accrued; and their excuse for not doing so is, that it would have been of no use, on
account of the alleged conspiracy of the officials and residents
of Watertown to prevent a service of process, by the resignation of the mayor, and by the secret meeting of the common
council before qualifying and organizing, and by their immediately resigning their offices after the transaction of some
necessary business.
The question is, whether such proceedings on the part of
the city officials furnish an excuse for not commencing the
action within the time limited by law? The statute itself
specifies several exceptions to its operation, as 1st, when the
defendant is out of the State; 2d, when he is an alien subject
or a citizen of a country at war with the United States; 3d,
when the person entitled to bring the action is insane, or under
age, or imprisoned on a criminal charge; 4th, when the commencement of an action has been stayed by injunction or statutory prohibition; 5th, where the action is for relief on the
ground of fraud, the statute does not begin to run until the
discovery by the party aggrieved of the facts constituting
the fraud. The question, therefore, is, whether the courts can
create another exception, not made by the statute, where the
party designedly eludes the service of process? Have the
courts the power thus to add to the exceptions created by
the statute? That is the precise question in this case.
It is said by Mr. Justice Strong, in Braun v. Sauerwein, 10
Wall. 218. 223. "It seems, therefore, to be established, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the running of a statute of limitation may be suspended by
causes not mentioned in the statute itself." The observation
is undoubtedly correct; but the cases in which it applies are
very limited in character, and are to be admitted with great
caution; otherwise the court would make the law instead of
administering it. The general rule is that the language of the
act must prevail, and no reasons based on apparent inconvenience or hardship can justify a departure from it.
The courts of equity, however, from an early day, held that
where one person has been injured by the fraud of another,
and the facts constituting such fraud do not come to the
knowledge of the person injured until some time afterward,
the statute will not commence to run until the discovery of
those facts, or until by reasonable diligence they might have
been discovered. Booth v. Warrington,4 Bro. P. C. ed. Toml.
163; South Sea Co. v. Ilfymondsell, 3 P. Wins. 143; Hoveden
v. Id. Annesley, 2 Sch. & Lef. 607, 631, etc.; Blennerassett
v. Day, 2 Ball & Beatty, 104, 129; Mitf. Oh. P1. ed. Jeremy,
269; Blanshard on Limitations, 81; Wood on Limitations,
ยง 58, p. 114, ยง 274, p. 586; Angell on Limitations, c. 18, 2d ed.
p. 188. A dictum of Lord Mansfield in Bree v. Holbech, 2
Doug. 654, 656, that "there.may be cases which fraud will
take out of the statute of limitations," raised the question
whether undiscovered fraud might not be set up by way of
replication to a plea of the statute in actions at law. Wilkinson on Limitations, 115. But this suggestion never obtained
the force of law in the English courts. Brown v. Howard, 2
Brod. & Bing. 73; hnwperial Gas Co. v. London Gas Co., 10
Exch. 39, 42, 45; Hunter v. Gibbons, 1 HI. & N. 459, 464.
Vice-Chancellor Wigram granted relief in equity in the case
of Blair v. Bromley, 5 Hare, 542, (S. C. 2 Phillips, 354,) on
the express ground that the acts of fraud were not discovered till within six years of bringing the suit, and that the
remedy at law was gone; and his decree was affirmed by Lord
Cottenham.
In this country, however, in many of the States, especially
in those States which never had a separate system of equity,
the statute has been held not to run, in cases of fraud, until

AMY v. WATERTOWN.

No. 2.

Opinion of the Court.

the discovery of the facts constituting the fraud; whilst in
other States, in the absence of a statutory provision on the
subject, the English doctrine has been adhered to. See Angell
on Limitations, c. 18, and Wood on Limitations, ยง 58. In
most of the States, however, statutes have finally been passed,
suspending the statute in cases of fraud until the facts have
been discovered, or'might have been discovered by reasonable
diligence. See the various statutes referred to in Wood on
Limitations, c. 22.
From this brief review it appears that concealment of fraud
has by many courts been considered good ground for suspending the statute of limitations, even in actions at law. But this
is a very different thing from attempting to avoid service of
process, and cannot be cited as aiding in any way the adoption
of such a rule in the latter case. Concealment of fraud prevents a party from knowing that he has been injured and has
a cause of action. He cannot take any steps to obtain redress.
But when a party knows that he has a cause of action, it is
his own fault if he does not avail himself of those means which
the law provides for prosecuting his claim, or instituting such
proceedings as the law regards sufficient to preserve it.
There is one class of cases which is excluded from the operation of the statute by act of law itself, of which the case in
which Mr. Justice Strong made the remark referred to is one.
This class embraces those cases in which no action can be
brought at all, either for want of parties capable of suing, or
because the law prohibits the bringing of an action. In such
cases the general law operates as a qualification, or tacit condition of the particular statute. Thus, if a man dies after
commencing an action, and it abates by his death, and the
limitation of time for bringing another action expires before
the appointment of an executor or administrator, - the courts
have held, that as there is no person to bring suit, the statute
is suspended for a reasonable period, in order to give an opportunity to those interested to have the proper representative
appointed: Blanshard on Limitations, pp. 104-112; Wood on
Limitations, 11, n. 4. So where a citizen of one country has a
cause of action against a person who re~ides in another country

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

at wax with his own, the law of nations forbids any intercourse
between them, and suspends all suits and actions by the one
against the other: and, therefore, the time, during which the
right to sue is thus suspended, is not reckoned as any part of
the time given by the statute of limitations for bringing an
action. HTanger v. Abbott, 6 Wall. 532; The Protector,9 Wall.
687; Wood on Limitations, 9, 10. Besides this general exception created by act of law, it is difficult to find any other
ground or cause for suspending the operation of the statute
not specified in the act itself.
The answer made by the plaintiffs to the plea of the statute
amounts to nothing more than an allegation that the defendant, the city of Watertown, by the acts of its officers, seeks to
evade the service of process. Their language is, that the
officers and people have conspired together for the purpose
of defrauding the plaintiffs, and to prevent them from obtaining service of process. Is it fraud in a debtor to endeavor to
evade the service of process ? Is it any more fraudulent than
it is not to pay the debt ? Fraud is not the proper term to
apply to such conduct. It may be morally wrong. It may
be dishonest; but it is not fraudulent in the legal sense of the
term.
Inability to serve process on a defendant has never been
deemed an excuse for not commencing an action within the
prescribed period. The statute of James made no exception
to its own operation in case where the defendant departed out
of the realm, and could not be served with process. Hence
the courts held that absence from the realm did not prevent
the statute from running. 'Wilkinson on Limitation, 40;
Hall v. Wyborn,. 1 Shower, 98. This difficulty was remedied
by the act of 4 and 5 Anne, c. 16, ยง 19, which declares that if
any person against whom there shall be any cause of action
be at the time of such action accrued beyond the seas, the
action may be brought against him after his return, within
the time limited for bringing such actions. Most of the
states have similar acts. The statute of Wisconsin, as we
have seen, has a similar provision; perhaps wider in its scope.
That statute, therefore, has expressly provided for the case of

KNaOWLTON v. WATERTOWN.
Statement of the Case.

inability to serve process occasioned by the defendant's absence
from the State. It has provided for no other case of inability
to make service. If this is an omission, the courts cannot
supply it. That is for the legislature to do. Mere effort on
the part of the defendant to evade service surely cannot be
a valid answer to the statutory bar. The plaintiff must sue
out his process and take those steps which the law provides
for commencing an action and keeping it alive.
The judgment of the Cir"cuit Court must be aflrmed.

Spalding v. Watertown, No. 201. Error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Wisconsin. Argued
Mlarch 13, 1889. Decided April 8, 1889. MUa. JUSTICE BRADLEY.
This case is precisely like the one just considered, and judgment
of affirmance must be rendered in this also.
Affirmed.
lfr. George P. Miller for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. George W. Bird and Mr. Daniel Hall for defendant in error.

KNOWLTON v. WATERTOWN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 198.

Argued March 13, 1889.-Decided April 8, 1889.

Amy v. Watertown, Aro. 2, ante, 320, affirmed and applied to this case.
In Wisconsin an action is not commenced for the purpose of stopping the
running of the statute of limitations until service of process had been
effected, or until service had been attempted and followed up by actual
service within sixty days or publication within that time.

THIS was an action in contract to recover on bonds issued by
the municipality of Watertown, in Wisconsin. Judgment for
the defendant. The plaintiffs sued out this writ of error. The
case is stated in the opinion.

