OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

to examine the records of that court to ascertain whether it
was authorized by an order made by the judge in conjunction
with the justices and duly entered of record; but he was justified in stopping immediately, as directed, and in resorting to
his action upon the contract. We are of opinion that no
principle of law or of fair dealing is violated by holding a
municipal corporation to a contract thus made within its lawful powers and by its lawfully constituted authority. For
these reasons the judgment of the Circuit Court is
Aflrmed.

RUDE v. WESTCOTT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 187. Argued and submitted March 7, 1889.-Decided March 18, 1889.

A general and full assignment by a patentee of the letters patent, and all his
interest therein, to the full end-of the term, and of all reissues, renewals,
or extensions, accompanied by a clause that the net profits from sales,
royalties, settlements, or any source, are to be divided between the parties, the patentee to receive one fourth thereof, is a full and absolute
transfer of title; 'and the assignee does not hold the property as trustee
for the benefit of the patentee, but is trustee only of one fourth of the
profits which may be received.
The payment of a sum in settlement of a claim for an alleged infringement
of letters patent. cannot be taken as a standard to measure the value of
the improvements patented in determining the damages sustained by the
owner of the patent in other cases of infringement.
An agreement concerning compensation for the use of a patented invention,
where the charge may be fixed at the pleasure of the owner of the patent,
cannot be received as evidence of the value of the improvements patented
so as to bind others who have no such agreement.
In order to make the price received by a patentee from sales of licenses a
measure of damages against infringers, the sales must be common, that
is, of frequent occurrence, so as to establish such a market-price for the
article that it may be assumed to express, with reference to all similar
articles, their salable value at the place designated.
Conjectural estimates of injury, founded upon no specific data, but upon
opinions formed upon guesses, withont any knowledge of the subject,
furnish no legal ground for the recovery of specific damages.

RUDE v. WESTCOTT.
Statement of the Case.

Tn case, as stated by the court in its opinion, was as
follows: -

The original complainants, John M. Westcott and Charles
W. West, allege in their bill that they are the owners, by assignment from the patentee, of two patents to Hiram Moore
for improvements in seeding machines, one issued November
20, 1860, and extended for seven years from November 20,
1874, and the other issued March 28, 1861, for seventeen years;
that since the assignment the defendants have made, used,
and sold seeding machines in the District of Indiana, and in
various other places in the United States, without the consent
or license of the complainants and in infringement of their
patents; and that the defendants are still engaged in such
unlawful acts. The complainants therefore pray that the defendants may upon their best knowledge and information
answer as to the matters alleged, and be compelled to account
for and pay to the complainants the profits acquired by them
and the damages sustained by the complainants, and be enjoined from making, using, and vending the said machines, or
any part thereof, or any seeding machine made in accordance
therewith, or similar to those heretofore made, used, and sold
by them. The bill was filed in March, 1876. An answer was
filed in June following, in which the defendants admit that
they have been and are engaged in the manufacture and sale
of seeding machines, but deny that they infringe either of
the patents or any of the rights of the complainants under
them, or that the complainants have been thereby deprived
of any profits. They also deny that Hiram Moore was the
first and original inventor of the alleged improvements described and claimed in the patents, and designate several
patents previously issued which, as they allege, embody the
substantial and material parts of the invention claimed.
In March, 1881, an amendment to the answer was allowed,
in which the defendants deny that the complainants have such
title to the patents as to enable them to maintain the suit
against the defendants, setting up that on the 10th of November, 1874, the complainant Westcott, by an instrument in writ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

ing, assigned to Isaac Kinsey and Aaron Morris an undivided
part of his interest in the patents, which instrument is recorded
in the Patent Office of the United States, and that on the 4th
of February, 1879, the said Isaac Kinsey assigned one twelfth
interest in the patents to one Lowell L. Lawrence and the
Wayne Agricultural Company, which assignment is also on
record in the Patent Office.
A replication to the answer having been filed, proofs were
taken, and among other things the assignment by Moore, the
patentee, to the complainants, and the assignment by Westcott
to Kinsey and Morris, mentioned in the bill and answers, were
produced. They are as follows, omitting such parts as axe not
material to the questions presented:
Assignment of -Aoore to IFestcott and West, and contract
between them.
"This agreement, made this sixth day of October, anno
Domini one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four, by and
between Hiram Moore, residing near Ripon, in the county of
Fond du Lac, and State of Wisconsin, party hereto of the first
part; Charles W. West, of Cincinnati, in the county of Hamilton, and State of Ohio, party hereto of the second part, and
John M. Westcott, of Milton, in the county of Wayne, and
-State of Indiana, party hereto of the third part, witnesseth:
"That whereas sundry letters patent of the United States
heretofore have been granted to said Moore, which said letters
patent are respectively numbered, entitled and dated as follows, to wit: No. 30,685, dated November 20th, 1860, and
entitled, 'Improvement ii Seed-Drills,' and No. 31,819, dated
March 26th, 1861, and entitled ' Improvement in Seed-Drills; '
and whereas the said Moore is justly indebted unto the said
Charles W. West in the full sum of ten thousand dollars, for
money advanced to aid him, the said Moore, in perfecting his
inventions, and is desirous of securing the repayment of the
same; and whereas the said Westcott is desirous of acquiring
an interest in the inventions and letters patent aforesaid, and
in any reissue, renewal, or .extension thereof : Now, therefore,
"Know all men by these presents, that, for and in considera-

RUDE v. WESTCOTT.
Statement of the Case.

tion of the premises, and of the sum of five dollars in lawful money, to me in hand, by the said Westcott and West,
before the execution hereof, paid, and of other valuable considerations, me thereunto moving, I, the said Hiram Moore, do
hereby assign, sell, and set over unto the said Charles W.
West and John A. Westcott the entire right, title and interest in and to the letters patent aforesaid, and in and to the
inventions and improvements represented, shown, or described
therein, including any renewal, reissue, or extension thereof,
the same to be held and enjoyed by the said West and Westcott, and their legal representatives, as fully and entirely as
the same would have been held and enjoyed by me had this
assignment and sale not been made, to the full end of any term
or terms for which the letters patent aforesaid, or either of
them, have been, or hereafter may be, granted, reissued, renewed, or extended.
"I hereby further agree to sign such lawful papers, and do
such lawful acts as may, by the counsel learned in law, of the
said West and Westcott, be deemed necessary or expedient in
order to obtain an extension or reissue of the patents aforesaid,
or to assert, maintain, or defend the rights secured by said letters patent. It is expressly understood, however, that the costs
and charges of the proceedings aforesaid shall be defrayed by
said West and Westcott, as hereinafter provided.
"In consideration of the premises, I hereby further make,
constitute and appoint the said Charles W. West and John M.
Westcott my true and lawful attorneys in law and in fact, with
power irrevocable, giving and granting to them full and exclusive and unreserved power and authority, for me and in my
name, place and stead, to assume and take upon themselves
the entire and exclusive management and control of the aforesaid letters patent, and of each and every one of theni, and to
dispose of all the rights, title and interest which I have under
the same, and under each and every of them, for such price
or prices, upon such terms, and to such persons, and for such
place or places, as they, my said attorneys, shall deem proper,
and in my name, place and stead, and as my own proper act
and deed, to sign, seal, deliver and acknowledge all such deeds

OCTOBER TERM,

88&n

Statement of the Case.

and instruments of writing as shall be necessary or proper for
the granting or licensing to others the said rights under the
said letters patent, and to each and every of them, and to ask,
demand, sue for and receive the price of fees, or any part or
parts thereof, paid or payable for such grants or licenses, and
in my name to execute and deliver receipts and acquittances
therefor, and in my name to bring to account and reckoning,
and to ask, demand, sue for, and recover and receive of and
from all and any person whomsoever, who may have been, or
may be, manufacturing or selling said drills containing the
improvements aforesaid, or by any or either of them, such
reasonable price or fee for such use of said improvements, or
either of them, as my said attorneys shall deem proper and
reasonable,

.

.

.

and generally to do and perform, and

execute in my name as aforesaid, all and whatever other
acts, matters and things that they may deem expedient and
requisite, or may be advised to do in and about the premises,
as fully and effectually, to all intents and purposes, as if I
myself were present and did the same, I, the said Hiram
Moore, hereby ratifying, allowing and confirming, and agreeing from time to time, and all times hereafter, to ratify, allow
and confirm as good and valid all and whatsoever the acts,
matters and things which my said attorneys, or their substitute, shall lawfully do, or cause to be done, in and about the
premises, by virtue of these presents.
"The said John M. Westcott, for his part, agrees, at his
own cost and charges, to procure the extension of said letters
patent, November 20, 1860, now pending, if practicable, including the expenses already incurred as well as those which
hereafter may be incurred in said behalf, which sum is to be
paid absolutely whether said extension is granted or not, and
in no event is any part of said sum to be reclaimed from, or
refunded or repaid by, said Moore, or to be deducted from the
sum or sums collected under said patents.
"It is hereby covenanted and agreed, by and between the
parties hereto, as follows: That from the sum or sums collected under the letters patent aforesaid, from sales, royalties,

RUDE v. WESTCOTT.
Statement of the Case.

or settlements, or from any other source, shall first be deducted
the costs, charges and expenses of collecting the same, including all litigation expenses save those of the extension application, and then the net profits or receipts shall be divided
among the parties hereto as follows: To Hiram Moore, or his
legal representatives, one fourth part; to C. W. West, or his
legal representatives, one fourth part; to John . Westcott,
or his legal representatives, one half part. 'In case of loss or
failure to realize any profit under said patents, all litigation
expenses aforesaid are to be paid by said Westcott, it being
expressly understood by the parties hereto that under no circumstances are said Moore or West to incur any obligation, or
be under any liabilities for said expenses. It is further agreed
that John M. Westcott is to make no charge for his own time
spent in this behalf, nor is said West to make any charges for
his services.
"It is also expressly understood that said Moore's interest
is to continue during and throughout the extended time of
the patent of November 20, 1860. Should such extension be
granted, the parties hereto hereby agree in good faith to perform the covenants between them made.
"In testimony whereof, the parties hereto have affixed their
hands and seals, the day and year first above written.
HmA_ MooRE.
"In presence of Seal.
C. W. WEST.
"Wi. D. Baldwin.
J. M. WESTCor.
"Mary T. Palmer.
Assigwament of Westcott to .forris and Hinsey, and contract
between them.
"Whereas, heretofore, to wit, October 6th, 1874, Hiram
Moore, of Fond du Lac County, Wisconsin, Charles W. West
of Cincinnati, Ohio, and John M. Westcott of Milton, Indiana,
entered into a contract and article of agreement in relation to
certain improvements in grain-drills, for which letters patent
have been issued to said Moore, No. 30,685, dated November
20th, 1860, and No. 31,819, dated March 26th, 1861, in which
agreement, amongst other things, the said Moore assigns and
conveys to said West one fourth, and to said Westcott one

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

half, and retains for himself one fourth of said interest, contained in said letters patent, for said improvements in said
grain or feed-drills;
"In said assignment, said Wescott, on his part, agrees, at
his own cost and charges, to procure the extension of said
letters patent of November 20th, 1860, including expenses
already incurred, as well as those that may hereafter occur in
said behalf, to be paid whether such extension be granted or
not, and in no event is said sum, or any part thereof, to be
reclaimed from or refunded by said M oore, and that from
sums collected under said letters patent, from sales, royalties,
or settlements, or from any other source, shall first be deducted
the costs, charges and expenses of collecting the same, including all litigation expenses, save those of the extension application, and then the net profits, or receipts, shall be divided among
said parties; to said Moore one fourth, said West one fourth,
and said Westcott one half part. In case of loss or failure to
realize any profits under said patent, all litigation expenses
aforesaid are to be paid by said Westcott, said Moore or West
to be under no liabilities for said expenses. Said Westcott is
to make no charge for his own time spent in this behalf, nor
is said West to make any charge for his services; said Moore's
interest is to continue during, and throughout the extended
term of the patent of November 20th, 1860, should such extension be granted;
"And whereas, in consideration of the foregoing, Isaac
Kinsey and Aaron Morris of i Milton, in Wayne County,
Indiana, are desirous of obtaining an interest in said letters
patent, they thereby agree to and with said John M. Westcott, of the same place, to severally take an equal interest
with him in the same;
"Therefore, this article of agreement witnesseth: That said
John MN.Westcott hereby agrees to and with said Isaac Kinsey and Aaron Morris, and does hereby set over and assign to
each of them one third part of his one half interest, retaining
one third part himself in said letters patent; and said Kinsey
and Morris, fully understanding the original agreement mentioned, do hereby agree to and with said Westcott, to be at

RUDE v. WESTCOTT.
Statement of the Case.

one third expense each with said Westcott, jointly, as set forth
in said agreement, and shall be equally entitled and receive
one third profit or proceeds, if any, in said one half interest,
and in all things pertaining hereto to be governed by this and
the original contract and agreement.
"In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
affixed our seals, this 10th day of November, 1874.
"J. M. WESrCOTT. [Seal.]
"IsAAe

KINSEY.

"A-AroN Mo is.

[Seal.]

[Seal.]"

In May, 1881, the case was brought to a hearing on the
pleadings and proofs, and the court held that the patents to
Moore were valid; that he was the original and first inventor
of the improvements specified -in them, and that the title to
them was vested in the, omplainants; that the defendants
had infringed the first and second claims of the patent of
1860, and the sixth claim of the patent of 1861, and that complainants were entitled to recover the profits and gains which
had accrued to the defendants from the manufacture, use, and
sale of the improvements specified in those claims; and ordered
a reference to one of the masters of the court to ascertain,
state and report an account of the gains and profits which
the defendants or either of them had received by infringing
the said claims, as well as the damages the complainants had
sustained thereby.
The master thereupon proceeded to comply with-the order,
and on the 6th of December, 1883, made his report to the
court. That report is not contained in the record, but from
references to it, and quotations from it in the opinion of the
court in considering exceptions taken to it, it appears that he
reported that the complainants waived all claim for profits,
and relied upon the proofs produced as establishing a fixed
license fee or royalty as the measure of damages. After stating the testimony of the witnesses who had been examined on
the point, he said that it was very difficult to determine from
this evidence whether it made proof of such an established
royalty or license fee as furnished a criterion upon which to
estimate complainants' damages.

OCTOBER TERML 1888.
Statement of the Case.

The proof on the subject of damages was thus stated in his
report:
"It is proved that the Wayne Agricultural Company paid
the royalty of $1 for one-horse machines and $2 for two-horse
machines for four years -a sum which, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, may be regarded as reasonable. Mast
& Co. paid between $2000 and $3000 in cash and conceded
privileges, which Westcott estimates to have been worth as
much more, for infringement. It is true Westcott threatened
suit, and when money is paid under threat of suit merely as
the price of peace, it furnishes no evidence of the amount or.
value of the real claim in dispute; but the settlement made
shows that Westcott was paid something substantial for the
infringement, and that the fear of litigation was a small element
of the settlement itself. Westcott says that he arrived at the
amount by his estimate of the number of the machines made
b7 Mast & Co. and other considerations which are explained
in Mast's deposition. Mast says no estimate was made of the
number of machines."
"Westcott says he gave licenses like the one attached to his
deposition to Mast & Co., and to English and Over. Mast
was examined but not interrogated on that point. Mr. English, the active man in the firm of English & Over, says he
does not recollect whether they took a license or not."
Notwithstanding the difficulty expressed by him, the master
reported that the defendants had made and sold 800 infringing one-horse machines, and that complainants' damages on
that account were $800; and that defendants had made and
sold 800 infringing two-horse machines, and that complainants'
damages on that account were $1600, making $2400 damages
in full. The court, after a. full consideration of the exceptions,
came to the conclusion that without further evidence the complainants were entitled to only nominal damages, and entered
an order that the case be recommitted to the master, with
directions to admit further evidence as to damages, and to
report the same, with his conclusions of law.
On the 23d of April, 1885, the master made a second report,
in which among other things he stated that the additional

RUDE v. WESTCOTT.
Statement of the Case.

evidence taken by him did not strengthen the proofs previously
made in support of the claim that the complainants had established a license fee or royalty, which furnished a criterion by
which to estimate the damages. He found that between 1870
and May, 1881, the defendants had made and put on the market about two thousand drills which infringed "the elements
of the combination covered by the first claim," one half of
which were one-horse and one-half two-horse drills. He then
considered the value of the claim or combination to defendants, who had used it in violation of complainants' rights, and
stated that the evidence on this subject was conflicting; that
some of the maifufacturers considered it of so much value
that during the life of the patent they had paid a stipulated
license for its use, and that afterwards they said it was worth
very little if anything, and that it might be true that its value
had been impaired and destroyed by new devices and improvements; and that the value of the combination as estimated by
the witnesses varied from nothing to six dollars per drill. He
therefore reported that complainants were entitled to damages
for 1000 one-horse drills at 75 cents each, and 1000 two-horse
drills at $1.50 each, making in all $2250,; but how he arrived
at the conclusion that seventy-five cents on each drill of one
class, and one dollar and fifty cents on each drill of the other
class, were the actual damages sustained, nowhere appears.
Exceptions were taken to the report on various grounds,
and among others: That the findings were based on speculation, and were only guesses, both as to the number of infringing drills and as to the value of the claim infringed; and that
it failed to state any definite facts or evidence as a basis or
ground for the findings. In July, 1885, the court decreed
that the complainants were entitled to recover $1800 for the
damages sustained, and that so far as the master's report was
inconsistent with that decree, the exceptions to it were sustained, but in other respects the exceptions were overruled.
From this decision the appeal is taken.
Pending the suit, Charles W. West, one of the complainants,
and George W. Rude and John R. Rude, two of the defendants, died, and the bill was revived by the substitution of the
voL. cxXX-11

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

executors of West in his place, and the administrators of George
W. Rude in his place, and the executor of John R. Rude in
his place.
Ir. Arthur Stem for appellants.
him on the brief.

r'. L. Hil was with

Jb,. . E. WVood and .Mr. Edward Boyd, for .appellees, submitted on their briefs.
MR. JUsTIcE FIELD, having stated the facts of the case,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendants below, appellants here, seek a reversal of
the decree of the Circuit Court upon several grounds, and,
among others, these: 1st, that the complainants have not
established a title in themselves to the patents; and 2d, tlnt
they have not proved any damages for the infringement of t! .
claims of the patentee.
The first of these grounds rests upon the supposed effect oi
the assignment executed by the patentee to the complainants
on the 6th of October, 1874. The instrument in its words of
transfer is amply full and expressive to convey to them his
entire interest in and title to not only the patents then issued,
but also any renewals or extensions thereof. His language is:
"I, the said Hiram Moore, do hereby assign, 'sell and set
over unto the said Charles W. West and John M. Westcott
the entire right, title and interest in and to the letters patent
aforesaid, and in and to the invention and improvements represented, shown, or described therein, including any renewal,
reissue, or extension thereof, the same to be held and enjoyed
by the said West and Westcott, and their legal representatives,
as fully and entirely as the same would have been held and
enjoyed by me had this assignment and sale not been made,
to the full end of any term or terms for which the letters
patent aforesaid, or either of them, have been, or hereafter
may be, granted, reissued, renewed, or extended."
Nothing could add to the force of this language. The coneluding provision, that the net profits arising from sales, royal-

RUDE v. WESTCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

ties, or settlements, or other source, are to be divided between
the parties to the assignment so as to give the patentee one
fourth thereof, does not, in any respect, modify or limit the
absolute transfer of title. It is a provision by which the
consideration for the transfer is to be paid to the grantor out
of the net profits made; it reserves to him no control over the
patents or their use or disposal, or any power to interfere with
the management of the business growing out of their ownership. The clause appointing the assignees attorneys of the
grantor, with authority to use his name whenever they deem
proper in such management, does not restrict in any way
the power of the assignees after the transfer of the property. It was inserted, perhaps, from over-caution, but it was
unnecessary. The assignees were under no obligation to consult him in the management of the property. Their own
interests were a sufficient guarantee of a judicious exercise of
their power of disposition.
The assignment of Westcott to Kinsey and Morris does speak
of an interest possessed by him in the patents, but it explains
what that interest is, viz., one half part of the net profits from
the patents, arising from sales, royalties, or settlements, or
other source, and it refers to the original assignment of the
patentee to West and Westcott.
It follows that .the contention of the defendants, that the
complainants have not established their title to the patents,
is not sustained. The complainants do not hold the property
as trustees for the benefit of the patentee; they are only trustees for him of one fourth of the profits which may be received
by them. Tilghtman v. Proctor,125 U. S. 136, 143.
The second ground of the appellants is, we think, well taken.
The master reported in his first report that the complainants
waived all claim for profits arising from the manufacture, use
and sale of the patented machines, and relied upon the proofs
as establishing such a fixed royalty or license fee as would
-furnish a criterion by which to estimate complainants' damages; and proceeding upon that view, be found from two instances, and perhaps a third instance, in which a specified sum
had been paid for the use of the machines, or for the privilege

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of making and selling them, that the complainants had suffered
damages on each one-horse machine used by the defendants of
one dollar, and on each two-horse machine used by them of
two dollars. One of the instances relied upon was that of the
Wayne Agricultural Company, which had paid the sums named
for the use of the machines for four years. It is not clear when
the payment was made, but it would seem that it was made in
part under a threat of suit, and in part as the result of an arbitration after litigation on the subject had been commenced,
and to avoid future litigation. It is clear that a payment of
any sum in settlement of a claim for an alleged infringement
cannot be taken as a standard to measure the value of the improvements patented, in determining the damages sustained
by the owners of the patent. in other cases of infringement.
Many considerations other than the value of the improvements
patented may induce the payment in such cases. The avoidance of the risk and expense of litigation will always be a
potential motive for a settlement. The second instance relied
upon is that of a corporation by the name of P. P. Mast &
Co., which had obtained a license to manufacture grain-drills
and seeders at Springfield, Ohio, and to sell the same within
the United States, upon an agreement to pay one dollar for
every one-horse drill or seeder and two dollars for every twohorse drill, provided that if the fee were paid upon the days
designated for semi-annual returns, or within ten days thereafter, a reduction of fifty per cent should be made from the fee.
The corporation soon afterwards changed its feeding device,
and thus did not infringe, and it settled for a portion of the
fees; but it does not appear what they were. It is plain, without regard to the settlement had, that an agreement of this
kind, where the charge may be fixed at the pleasure of the
owner of the patent, cannot be received as evidence of the
value of the improvements patented so as to bind others having
no such agreement. The third instance is that of an alleged
license to English & Over. The complainant Westcott testifies that they continued to pay as long as they were in partnership, but how much, or how long that partnership continued,
does not appear. And Mr. Over, a member of that firm, does

RUDE v. VESTCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

not recollect that it ever took a license. Westcott also testifies
that no other persons or corporations than those mentioned
ever took any licenses from them under the patents sued upon.
It is undoubtedly true that where there has been such a
number of sales by a patentee of licenses to make, use and
sell his patents, as to establish a regular price for a license,
that price may be taken as a measure of damages against infringers. That rule was established in Seymour v. .Mc ormick-,
16 How. 480, and affirmed in Cotporation of New York v.
Ransom, 23 How. 487; Packet Co. v. Sickles, 19 Wall. 611,
617; Birdsall v. Coolidge, 93 U. S. 64; and Root v. Railway
Co., 105 U. S. 189, 197. Sales of licenses, made at periods
years apart, will not establish any rule on the subject and
determine the value of the patent. Like sales of ordinary
goods, they must be common, that is, of frequent occurrence,
to establish such a market price for the article that it may
b. assumed to express, with reference to all similar articles,
their salable value at the place designated. In order that a
royalty may be accepted as a measure of damages against an
infringer, who is a stranger to the license establishing it, it
must be paid or secured before the infringement complained
of; it must be paid by such a number of persons as to indicate
a general acquiescence in its reasonableness by those who have
occasion to use the invention; and it must be uniform at the
places where the licenses axe issued. Tested by these conditions, the sums paid in the instances mentioned, upon which
the master relied, cannot be regarded as evidence of the value
to the defendants of the invention patented. The court below
so treated them, and held that without further evidence the
complainants would be entitled only to nominal damages, and
remanded the case to the master to take further evidence. He
did so, but in his second report he stated that the additional
evidence did not strengthen the proofs previously made in
support of the claim that complainants had established a
license fee or royalty which furnished a criterion by which to
estimate the damages. He therefore proceeded to estimate
the value of the claim or combination patented, to the defendants, who had used it in violation of the complainants' rights,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

and for that purpose took the opinions of different persons on
the subject. Of the witnesses produced by the complainants,
it does not appear that any ever manufactured or used the
patented machines. One of the principal witnesses stated that
he had never read the patent, had never seen a drill made like
that described, had no experience in the matter of licenses, and
that he placed his estimate of the value of the claim patented
at what he considered would be a fair recompense to the inventor. The estimates of all the witnesses of the complainants
were merely conjectural; that is, were made without having
knowledge of any saving secured either in the cost of the
machine or in the labor required for its use, they simply stating that they considered that the amounts named by them
would be a reasonable and fair royalty or license fee for the
patented drill. Naturally estimates founded upon supposed
but not known benefits were widely apart, varying from three
to six dollars for a two-horse drill and half those sums for a
single horse drill. On the other hand, witnesses produced by
the defendants, who had examined, and some of whom had
used, the patented drills, stated that they did not consider them
of any more utility than other seeding drills in use, and that
they did not bring any greater price in the market. The
master does not appear to have given weight to the judgment
of any of the witnesses, but concluded, though by what process of reasoning is not perceived, that seventy-five cents on
each one-horse drill and double that sum on each two-horse
drill would be the proper amount to allow, and as he had found,
though upon testimony equally loose and insufficient, that there
were one thousand one-horse drills and an equal number of
two-horse drills, he reported that the complainants were entitled to $2250 as damages. The court was not satisfied with
his conclusion, and, without stating the ground of its action,
ordered the amount to be reduced to $1800 as damages which
the plaintiff should recover, besides costs, and $150 fee for the
master, sustaining the exceptions to the report so far as it was
inconsistent with that decree, and in other respects overruling
them.
The action of the court is subject to the same objection as

SMITH v. ADAMS.
Syllabus.

the report of the master. The ruling that a royalty was established, as made in the first report, had been repudiated by it,
and no evidence of the value of the invention to the defendants was adduced except the conjectural estimates stated; and
they furnished no satisfactory basis for any damages, much
less data, which authorized the specific finding made as to the
damages for each drill used. Opinions not founded on knowledge were of no value. Conclusions from such opinions were
at best mere guesses. By the decision rendered a settled rule
of law was violated, that actual, not speculative, damages must
be shown, and by clear and definite proof, to warrant a recovery for the infringement of a patent. As was said long ago
by this court: "Actual damages must be calculated, not imagined; and an arithmetical calculation cannot be made without
certain data on which to make it." New York v. Ransom, 23
How. 487, 488. There was no question in this case of damages'
arising from lost sales, or injurious competition, for no machines
had been manufactured and put on the market by the patentee,
or by the complainants, his assignees.
No legal ground being shown for the recovery of specific
damages for the alleged infringement of the patents, the decree must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to enter a
dec.reefor the corrmlainantsfornominal damages.

SMITH v. ADAMS.
APPEA-L FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
DAKOTA.
No. 1498. Submitted March 11, 189.-Decided April 1, 1889.

The validity of an election to determine the county seat of a county in
Dakota under the laws of the Territory, when presented to the courts in
the form prescribed by those laws, becomes a subject of action within
the jurisdiction of the territorial court, whose judgment thereon is subject to appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory.
"By the matter in dispute," as that phrase is used in the statutes conferring
jurisdiction on this court, is meant the subject of litigation, the matter

