OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

of the service and for the master's benefit, though no express
command or privity of the master be proved." See also Linzpus v. Zondon General Omnibus Co., 1 H. & C. 526. The
fraud was in respect to a matter within the scope of Easton's
employment or outside of it. It was not within it, for bills'of
lading could only be issued for merchandise delivered; and
being without it, the company, which derived and could derive
no benefit from the unauthorized and fraudulent act, cannot
be made responsible. British _Mutual Banking Go. v. Chanwood Fore.qt Railway Co.,.18 Q. B. D. 714.
The law can punish roguery, but cannot always protect a
purchaser from loss, and so fraud perpetrated through the
device of a false bill of lading may work injury to an innocent
party, which cannot be redressed by a change of victim.
Under the Texas statutes the trip or voyage commences from
the time of the signing of the bill of lading issued upon the
delivery of the goods, and thereunder the carrier cannot avoid
his liability as such, even though the goods are not actually on
their passage at the time of a loss, but these provisions do not
affect the result here.
We cannot distinguish the case in hand from those heretofore decided by this court, and in consonance with the conclusions therein announced this judgment must be
Afflrmed.

SHEPHERD v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD

COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE
SOUTHERN
N o. 213.

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF OHIO.

Argued March 20, 21, 189.-

Decided April 8, 1889.

To entitle a property owner to recover for injury to his property in Ohio
by reason of the location of a railroad on a public street, road or alley,
it is not necessary under the provisions of Rev. Stats. Ohio, § 3283, that
the property should be situated upon the street so occupied; but it is

SHEPHERD v. BALTIMORE &c. RAILROAD Co.

4:27

Statement of the Case.
sufficient if it is near enough to it to be injured by the location and occupation.
Damages for a temporary injury sustained by a property owner by reason
of the occupation of a street during the construction of a railroad are
not recoverable under § 3283, Rev. Stats. Ohio.
The pleadings in this case cover both the clainr for damages under the statute, and the claim for special damages by reason of obstruction during
construction.

THE court, in its opinion, stated the case as follows:

This action was brought to recover damages for injuries
alleged to have been done by the defendant in error to certain
improved lots on Union Street, in Bellaire, Ohio, of which the
plaintiff in error, who was the plaintiff below, claims to be
the owner. It is based upon § 3283 of the Revised Statutes
of Ohio, which provides: "If it be necessary, in the location
of any part of a railroad, to occupy any public road, street,
alley, way, or ground of any kind, or any part thereof, the
municipal or other corporation or public officers or authorities,
owning or having charge thereof, and the company may agree
upon the manner, terms and conditions, upon which the same
may be used or occupied; and if the parties be unable to
agree thereon, and it be necessary, in the judgment of the
directors of such company, to use or occupy such road, street,
alley, way or ground, such company may appropriate so much
of the same as may be necessary for the purposes of its road,
in the manner and upon the same terms as is provided for the
appropriation of the property of individuals; but every company which lays a track upon any such street, alley, road or
ground, shall be responsible for injuries done thereby to private or public property, lying upon or near to such ground,
which may be recovered by civil action brought by the owner,
before the proper court, at any time within two years from the
completion of such track." Rev. Stats. Ohio (ed. 1880), 851.
This is, without material change, the first section of the act of
April 15, 1857, entitled "An act to amend the act entitled
' An act to provide for the creation and regulation of incorporated companies in the State of Ohio,' passed May 1, 1852, and
to regulate railroad companies." Laws of Ohio, 1857, 133.

OCTO13ER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

The lots in question are situated on the west side of Union
(formerly Water) Street, thirty-three feet south from Thirtyfirst .formerly First) Street, and extena back one hundred and
twenty feet to an alley, running from Crescent Street to Thirty-first Street. Upon the lots is a two-story brick building,
the first floor being used as a dry goods store and the rest
of the building as a hotel. The railroad company- with the
assent, as we assume, of the municipal authorities of Bellaire
- constructed its road in Thirty-first Street, upon arches
springing from stone pil:ars about twenty-seven feet apart,
each pillar being twelve feet long, six feet thick, and thirty
feet high. Two of the pillars are in Union Street, at the
intersection of that street with Thirty-first Street, each of
them extending fifteen inches within the line of the sidewalk
on each side of the roadway of Union Street, through Thirtyfirst Street. It took from three to four years to build the
railroad in the latter street. During that period Union Street
for about one hundred feet south from Thirtv-first Street
towards Crescent Street (which is parallel to and the next
street south from Thirty-first Street) was obstructed by stone,
timber, rock, derricks, steam engines, barrels, guy-ropes, etc.,
such obstructions extending in front of and past the lots in
question. For a great part of the time the railroad was being
built teams could not get to this property because of these
obstructions, and at times persons could hardly get to it or
pass by it on foot. Before the railroad was built in Thirtyfirst Street the property was worth from $9000 to $10,600, the
store bringing an annual rent of from $400 to $500, and the
whole building $1000; afterwards it was not worth more
than from $4000 to $5000, and the rental was reduced one
half.
These facts having been proven by a witness on behalf of
the plaintiff, subject to objection to their competency, the
court, on motion of the defendant, excluded from the consideration of the jury so much of the evidence as related to
the depreciation of tlhe value of the property by reason of
the above obstructions, and all the testimony relative to
the diminution of its rental value.

SHEPHERD v. BALTIMORE &c. RAILROAD C0.

429

Statement of the Case.
The plaintiff then made a formal offer to prove that, the
building of the railroad in Thirty-first Street was in progress
three or four years, during which time the company obstructed
Union Street, in front of his property, with materials of all
kinds used in building the railroad, so that access to his property was seriously obstructed; that because of such obstruction his tenants occupying the premises left them, and he
was unable to rent them, and by reason thereof he lost their
rental value, amounting to at least two thousand dollars; that
access from Thirty-first Street to the alley in the rear of his
property was entirely cut off during the building of the railroad; that the alley was too narrow for teams coming in from
the other direction to turn, and that he had a stable at the
rear of his property and abutting on the alley, which became
entirely untenantable during the construction of the railroad;
that the building of the pillars and the archway connecting
the same at the intersection of Union and Thirty-first streets
damaged the access to his property from Union Street, and the
building of the railroad in Thirty-first Street, west of Union
Street, damaged his access to his property through the alley
in the rear, and depreciated its market value in the sum
claimed in the petition. The court refused to admit this
proof, and ruled that damages to the rental value of the property were not recoverable in this action, nor damages resulting
from the placing of obstructions on Union Street in front of
the property, during the time of the building of the railroad,
and that no recovery could be had by him for damages to his
property by reason of the building of the railroad in Thirtyfirst Street.
The court further decided that § 3283 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio does not enlarge or extend the liabilities of railroad companies, but only preserves the right of property
owners to recover for injuries done to their property by the
building of railroads under agreements made with municipal
or other corporations or public officers or authorities, as provided in that section, precisely as if no such agreements had
been made.
These rulings having been made, and duly excepted to by

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff, the court, on defendant's motion, gave a peremptory instruction to the jury to return a verdict in its behalf,
which was done.
Mr. John T . Herron, for plaintiff in error, cited: Railroad
Co. v. Hambleton,40 Ohio St. 496; Bingham v. Doane, 9 Ohio,
165 ; Cralwford v. Village of Delaware, 7 Ohio St. 459 ; Cincinnati & Spring Grove Railway v. Cumminsville, 140 Ohio St.
523; Railway Co. v. Lawrence, 38 Ohio St. 41; Colurnbus &c.
Railroadv. .Xowatt, 35 Ohio St. 284; Railway Co. v. Gardner, 45 Ohio St. 309 ; Rude v. St. Louis, 93 Missouri, 408.
iJfr. Hugh E. Bond, Jr., and Mr.E. J D. Cross,for defendant
in error, cited: Clark v. Fry, 8 Ohio St. 358; S. C. 72 Am. Dec.
590; Rochette v. Chicago &c.Railway, 32 Minnesota, 201; S. C.
17 Am. & Eng. Railroad Gas. 192; Proprietorsof -Lock &c.
v. Nashua & Lowell Railroad,10 Gush. 385; Railway Co. v.
Gardner,45 Ohio St. 309; Crawford v. Village of Delaware,
7 Ohio St. 459; Jackson v. Jackson, 16 Ohio St. 163; Blackwell
v. Old Colony Railroad,122 Mass. 1; Caledonian Railway v.
Ogilvy, 2 Macq. HI. ]L. Gas. 229; Pierce v. Dart,7 Cowen, 609;
HZouck v. Watcher, 34 Maryland, 265; Sargent v. Ohio & A3ississippi Railroad,1 Handy (Super. Ct. of Cincinnati), 52, 59;
Pittsburg& Lake Erie Railroadv. Jones, 111 Penn. St. 204.
MR. JsTicE U.ALAx delivered the opinion of the court.

The express requirement that every railroad company occupying a street or other public ground, under an agreement
with the municipal or other authorities, owning or having
charge thereof, "shall be responsible for injuries done thereby
to private or public property, lying upon or near to such
ground," leaves little room for construction. The right to
recover damages for such injuries is not limited to owners of
property immediately upon the street occupied by the track or
other structures of the railroad company. If -the legislature
had intended to restrict the right of action given by the statute to owners of the latter class of property, the words "or
near to" would not have been used. The manifest purpose
was to place those whose property was "near to" any public

SHEPHERD v.BALTIMORE &c. RAILROAD CO.

431

Opinion of the Court.

street thus occupied upon an equality, in respect to the right
to sue, with those whose property abutted on the street.
In Columbus, Springfteld &c. Railroadv. .Mowatt, 35 Ohio
St. 284, 287, which was an action to recover damages for injuries to private property not immediately upon the street occupied by the railroad track, the court held the limitation of two
years prescribed by the statute to be applicable, because the
street was occupied under an agreement with the municipal
authorities, and because the premises were "near to" that
street. But an adjudication more directly in point is Railway
Co. v. Gardner,45 Ohio St. 309, 318, which was made after
the decision in the court below of the case now before us. The
property there alleged to have been injured was immediately
upon the street in which the railroad track was maintained
under municipal authority. Referring to Parrotv. Railroad
0o, 10 Ohio St. 624, as not controlling the case then before
the court, it was said: "For, whereas the court declares in
that case that the owner of such lot has no more right to recover damages of the company than any citizen who resides,
or may have occasion to pass, so near the street and railroad
as to be subjected to like discomforts, the act in question expressly authorizes an action and recovery for injuries done by
laying a track upon any such street or ground to private or
public property 'lying upon or near to the street or ground
upon which the track is laid.' It seems that to entitle a property owner to recover for injury to his property, it need not
necessarily be situated upon the street occupied by the track.
The statute reaches beyond the decision in prescribing a remedy for a party whose property is injured by the location
and operation of a railroad track through the street by a railroad corporation. . . . The provision in force at the time
of the injury complained of in that case, of which § 3283 is an
amendment, created no such remedy for land owners as we are
considering."
This interpretation of the statute is, in our judgment, the
only one justified by its words, although it may sometimes be
difficult to determine whether particular property, alleged to
have been injured by the placing of a railroad track or struc-

OCTOBER TERI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

ture in a public street, is, within the meaning of the statute,
"near to" that street. It is certain, however, that property
is "near to" the street, so as to entitle the owner to avail
himself of the remedy given by the statute, if the injury to it
is the direct and necessary result of the occupancy of the street
by the track or other structures of a railroad company. And
an injury for which the company is liable, under the statute,
arises when the diminution of the value of the property can be
fairly attributed to such occupancy and use of the street. In
G-afton v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 21 Fed. Rep. 309,
which was an action under this statute for injury done by the
obstructions here in question, Mr. Justice Matthews said:
"There does not appear to be any ground, in the words or
intention of the act, for a distinction between temporary injuries to the use, and permanent injuries to the value, of the
property injured; and, in the absence of any ambiguity, the
statute must be taken to mean what it plainly says; and,
there being no sufficient reason to the contrary, must be so
construed that the railroad company, in the case contemplated,
shall be held responsible for all injuries of every description
done by its work to the property of the plaintiffs."
It is
scarcely necessary to say that the same rule as to compensation must be applied in the case of property "near to" any
street so occupied by a railroad company. The injury, in a
case of that kind, may not, in every case, be easily ascertained, but the right of the owner, under the statute, to full
compensation for it, is as clear as is the right of the owner of
property abutting on the street, to be compensated for any
substantial injury resulting from its occupancy by a railroad.
One of the questions discussed at the bar was as to the right
of the plaintiff to recover damages in this action on account
of the obstructions placed in Union and Thirty-first Streets
during the building of the railroad, whereby access to his property by way of Union Street, as well as through the alley in
the rear, was materially obstructed. We are of opinion that
the temporary injury sustained by the plaintiff on account of
such obstructions cannot properly be said to have been done
to the property itself, within the meaning of the statute. The

SHEPHERD v. BALTIMORE &c. RAILROAD CO.

433

Opinion of the Court.

inquiry in every case, under the statute in question, is, whether
the property alleged to be injured has been depreciated in value
by reason of the street being occupied by a railroad company,
and that question is solved by ascertaining the difference in
its value before and its value after the final location and construction of the railroad. Railway Co. v. Gardner,45 Ohio
St. 309, 322. The authority given to the railroad company to
place its track in Thirty-first Street carried with it authority
to obstruct its use temporarily, so far as the building of the
track required it to be done. The rule, in Ohio, applicable in
such a case is thus stated in 0Cark v. Fry,8 Ohio St. 358, 373:
"The right of transit in the use of public highways is subject
to such incidental, temporary, or partial obstructions as manifest necessity may require," and among those are the temporary impediments necessarily occasioned in the building and
repair of houses on lots fronting upon the streets of a city,
and in the construction of sewers, cellars, drains, etc. "These
are not invasions, but qualifications of the right of transit;
and the limitation upon them is that they must not be unnecessarily and unreasonablyinterposed or prolonged."
But the plaintiff's special damages, if any, on account of
such obstructions, constituted a cause of action apart from his
claim, under the statute before us, for damages on account of
the depreciation of the value of the property itself, as the result of the permanent occupancy of the street with a railroad
track. And here the point is made that the petition is not so
framed as to cover those special damages. In this view we do
not concur. Its allegations are broad enough to admit evidence in support of the claim for damages on account of any
unnecessary obstruction of the plaintiff's access to his property during the building of the railroad track in Thirty-first
Street, as well as of the claim for injury done to the permanent value of the property. The plaintiff could have been
required to separately state his two causes of action, but no
motion to that end having been made in the court below, that
objection was waived. .Mic.Kinney v. ALXoinney, 8 Ohio St.
423; Hlartforfd Townshi v. Bennett, 10 Ohio St. 441, 443;
Civil Code Ohio, §§ 80, 81, 86. Nor, so far as the record shows,
VOL. cxxx-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

were the rulings of the court below based in any degree upon
the ground that the petition did not sufficiently set forth a
separate cause of action for special damages on account of the
temporary obstructions referred to.
The point was pressed at the bar, that, as no proof was introduced by the plaintiff to overcome the denial by the defendant in its answer of his ownership of the property in question,
any errors committed by the court as to other issues made by
the pleadings are immaterial, since the peremptory instruction
was proper in view of the plaintiff's failure to prove his ownership. This objection is too technical and cannot be sustained,
as the property is repeatedly referred to in the record as being
owned by the plaintiff, and the court so assumed in its rulings.
After the exclusion of competent evidence introduced and
offered in behalf of the plaintiff upon the issue as to the injury
done to the property, his ownership being unquestioned except
by a formal denial in the answer, and the issue as to the injury
being treated as the real point of inquiry, we ought not to
affirm for the want of affirmative proof in the record of such
ownership.
It results from what we have said that the plaintiff was entitled to go to the jury upon the issue as to the damage be
sustained, if any, by reason of the access to his property during
the construction of the track being unnecessarily and materially
obstructed by the company, as well as upon the issue as to the
depreciation, if any, in the value of his property, as the direct
and necessary result of the permanent occupancy of Thirtyfirst Street by the track and structures of the company. Evidence was offered which tended to support those issues, upon
his part, and was improperly excluded.
The judgment is reversed with directionsfor a new trial, and
forfurtherproceedings consistent with this opinion.

