THOMPSON v. HALL.
Opinion of the Court.

THOMPSON v. HALL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YOR.
No. 186.

Argued March 6,7, 18S9. -Decided

March 18, 1889.

Letters patent No. 232,975, granted October 5, 1880, to Henry G. Thompson,
as assignee of the inventor, Moses C. Johnson, for an improvement in
cutting-pliers, the claim of which is, " The body, composed of the side
plates, a b, the independent fulcra 2 3 4 5 for the jaw-levers and handlevers, the jaw-levers provided with cutting edges and with lips e, and
the hand-levers having short arms g' h', and a prong and notch always in
engagement as described, combined with the V-shaped spring, held, as
described, by the lips of the jaw-levers, all as and for the purpose set
forth," are invalid, because Johnson was not the first inventor of the
combination claimed in the patent.

IN EQUITY for infringement of letters patent. Decree dismissing the bill. Complainant appealed. The case is stated
in the opinion.

Xr. HTorace Barnardfor appellant.
.Mr. Amos Broadnan for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BLATOHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of New York, by Henry
G. Thompson against Thomas G. Hall, J. F. Oliver, Samuel
Leopold and David L. Harris, for the alleged infringement of
letters patent No. 232,975, granted October 5, 1880, to the
plaintiff, as assignee of the inventor, Moses C. Johnson, for an
improvement in cutting-pliers, on an application filed June 2,
1880.
The specification, drawings and claim of the patent are as
follows:
"This invention relates to cutting-pliers, and is an improvement on that class of pliers represented in United States patent

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

No. 209,677, dated November 5, 1878, granted to T. G. Hall,
to which reference may be had. In that invention either of
the two hand-levers may be turned on its pivot without turning the other, and the tool-body formed by the face or covering plates is permitted to vibrate, or turns more or less, with
relation to the handles, and the central space between the
cutting-faces of the jaw-levers, when the pliers are taken in
the hand to be used, drops more or less out of line with the
central line of the handles, making, as it were, a loose joint
midway between the ends of the pliers.

"One of the objects of my invention is to construct a stiff
pair of pliers, or pliers in which the hand and jaw-levers shall
each be compelled to move positively in an opposite direction
to the movement of its fellow, or a pair of pliers in which the
tool-body shall not of itself swing or vibrate upon the pins or
studs holding the hand-levers.

THOMPSON v. HALL.
Opinion of the Court.

"In the patent above referred to, the end of wire or other
thing cut off by the cutters drops into and injures the spring
that opens the jaw-levers. This I obviate by providing each
jaw-lever with a lip to cover or bridge the space between the
jaws, as the jaw-levers are closed.
"My invention consists in the combination and arrangement
of parts for effecting these ends, as hereiiiafter specified and
claimed.
"Figure 1 represents, in side elevation, a pair of cuttingpliers containing my improvements; and Fig. 2, a like view
with one of the body or side plates removed.
" The body of the pliers is composed of two side plates, a b.
These side plates are fixed together by the screws 2 3 4 5. Of
these screws, those 2 3 are the fulcra of the jaw-levers o d,
having at their ends the usual cutters or cutting-surfaces V d'.
Each of these jaw-levers has a lip 1, and the end of one meets
the end of the other lip just as or just before the two cuttingedges o' d' separate the wire or other metal end to be cut off
by them, thus closing the space between the said jaw-levers
and side plates, in which is placed the springf, and preventing
the entrance into said space of hard pieces of wire or other
articles that would clog the pliers. These lips also serve
another essential purpose - viz., that of holding the ends of
the spring from displacement, and obviating the employment
of a separate pin or stud to hold the said spring at one end, as
heretofore common.
"The screws 4 5 serve as the fulcra for the hand-levers g A,
having short arms g' '', to act upon the ends of the longer
arms of the jaw-levers and turn them on their fulcra to close
the jaws and bring the cutting-edges together. The springf
opens the jaws the instant the clasping pressure on the handlevers is relaxed.
"In order to move the jaw-levers equally at all times and
prevent the jaw-levers and body of the pliers turning on the
handles, I have provided one hand-lever with a prong rn, having a rounded end that enters a rounded notch in the opposite
lever. This one prong and its nrotch are always in engagement, and so connect the two levers that the body of the pliers

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

cannot vibrate on the screws 4 5, but, on the contrary, the two
levers may turn each on its own pivot, both levers always turning the same distance, but in exactly opposite directions. This
connection between the two hand-levers, as described, insures
a stiff pair of pliers, that can be handled more readily and ac"curately than the old form of cutting-pliers referred to, and
which are more positive as to the movement of the cutting-jaws.
"I am aware, in bolt-cutters, where the short ends of the
hand-levers are jointed with the long ends of the cutting-jaw
levers, that a series of teeth or cogs have been interposed to
cause the hand-levers to be geared together; but in such boltcutters one single tooth and notch would not operate to always
keep the two hand-levers locked together as to their movement in unison, as is the case with my one prong, m, rounded
at its end and inserted within a rounded notch. I claim "The body, composed of the side plates, a b,the independent
fulcra 2 3 4 5 for the jaw-levers and hand-levers, the jaw-lovers
provided with cutting-edges and with lips e, and the bandlevers having short arms g'I', and a prong and notch always
in engagement, as described, combined with the V-shaped
spring, held, as described, by the lips of the jaw-levers, all as
and for the purpose set forth."
One of the defences set up in the answer is, that Johnson
and Thompson surreptitiously obtained the patent in fraud of
the rights of the defendants; that the defendants are trustees
and directors of a New York corporation, known as the Interchangeable Tool Company; that that corporation was organized in August, 1878, for the purpose of manufacturing cuttingpliers or nippers, under letters patent No. 209,677; granted to
the defendant Hall, November 5, 1878; that Hall invented
certain improvements upon such pliers, and immediately described and explained them to the officers of the company; that
the company thereupon caused a model of them to be made,
embracing such improvements; that Johnson was employed
to make such model pliers for the company, and made them
for the company while in its employ, and under the direction
of Hall; that Johnson was in the employ of the company, in
making such pliers, from April 20, 1879, until May 1, 1880,

THOMPSON v. HALL.
Opinion of the Court.

during which time the company made and sold upwards of
30,000 of such pliers, with the knowledge and consent of Johnson, and without any objection on his part, and without notice
that he claimed to be the inventor of the whole or any part of
such pliers, or intended to apply for a patent for the same;
that Hall was the first and original inventor of said original
cutting-pliers and of said improvements thereon, and assigned
to the company the whole of the patent of November 5, 1878,
immediately on its issue, and also the whole of the said improvements upon such cutting-pliers; that Johnson, after so
being in the employ of the company for one year, was dismissed from its service, and thereupon, as the result of a conspiracy between Thompson, Johnson and one Gustam, Johnson
falsely claimed that he was the first and original inventor of
said improvements, and applied for a patent therefor, and sold
his pretended claim to the invention to Thompson; and that
Johnson, without the knowledge of Hall, or of the other defendants, or of the company, applied for a patent for said improvements, falsely alleging that he was their first and original
inventor, and surreptitiously obtained said patent, No. 232,975,
for said invention of Hall, and for an improvement upon the
pliers so patented November 5, 1878.
There was a replication to this answer, proofs were taken,
and the Circuit Court entered a decree dismissing the bill, from
which the plaintiff has appealed. In its opinion (25 Fed. Rep.
906) the Circuit Court stated, that the question at issue was
whether the combination covered by the claim of the plaintiff's
patent was invented by Johnson while he was an employ6 of
the corporation; that the plaintiff had sought to prove that a
model produced by him, known as Exhibit C, was made by
Johnson while he was in the employ of the company; that, on
the other hand, the defendants had sought to prove that that
model was not made by Johnson while he was employed by
the company, but after he had been discharged from its employ, and for the purpose of supporting a fraudulent claim to
an invention really made by Hall, and which claim had been
put forth by Johnson for the first time after he had been discharged from the service of the company; and that, upon a

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

full consideration of all the evidence, the conclusion of the
court was, that Exhibit 0 was not made while Johnson was a
workman for the company, but was made subsequently to his
leaving its employment, and that he was not the first inventor
of the combination claimed in the patent issued to the plaintiff.
The testimony is voluminous and contradictory, and, without
discussing it, it is sufficient to say that we are of opinion that
the evidence establishes the conclusion reached by the Circuit
Court, and that the decree must be affirmed; and it is so
ordered.
Aflrmed.

MOORE v. CRAWFORD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 700. Submitted January 2,1889.-Decided March 18, 1889.
In January, 1875, a patent issued from the state land office in Michigan
for 160 acres of mineral land to McDonald and McKay, who furnished
the money for it. The application was made by Moore in their behalf,
and under an agreement which the court finds to be established by the
proof as made (but not as made in writing) that he was to have one third
Interest in it in consideration of his services in prospecting. On the
18th of October, 1875, Moore, being then unmarried, executed and
delivered a deed of one sixth interest in the tract to Monroe for a valuable consideration, informing him that he (Moore) was to have a deed
of one third part from McDonald and McKay, which was probably at
that time made out. McDonald and McKay executed their deed to
Moore some time in 1875, and deposited it with a third party to be delivered when a debt due from Moore to McDonald should be settled, which
was done in 1877. Mooro did not know of the existence of this deed,
and it was subsequently lost. On the 16th of December, 1880, at
Moore's request, and for the avowed purpose of defeating his deed to
Monroe, McDonald and McKay conveyed the promised one third interest
to the wife of Moore, he having been in the meantime married, and the
wife having knowledge of the deed to Monroe, and of the object of the
conveyance to her. Moore then entered into possession, and managed
the property as if it were his own. Monroe died intestate in Colorado
in 1878, and his widow moved into Canada- In the summer of 1871 she
first learned that Moore disputed Monroe's title. She wrote him a letter
informing him of the claim of the widow and heirs of Monroe to one

