DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. GA N-NON.
Opinion of the Court.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. GANNON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLTMBIA.
To.182.

Argued March 5, 6, 1889.-Decided April 1, 1889.

The amount necessary to give this court jurisdiction to re-examine a judgment or decree against a defendant in the court below (whether rendered
in the trial court or in the appellate court) is to be determined by the
amount of the judgment in the trial court without adding interest, unless
interest is part of the claim litigated, or forms part of the judgment in
the trial court and runs from a period antecedent to that judgment.
At the trial of an action against the District of Columbia to recover for
personal injuries received by reason of a defect in the streets of Washington, the refusal to charge that the District cannot be held responsible
for the negligence of a government which is imposed upon it by Congress;
or that no such action can be maintained against it because it derives no
profit from the duty of maintaining the streets, does not draw in question the validity of the statutes of the United States creating the government of the District, so as to give this court appellate jurisdiction of
the cause, independently of the amount of the judgment in the trial
court.

MOTION TO DISMISS for want of jurisdiction.
stated in the opinion of the court.

a. S. S. Henkle (with whom was

The case is

'. John F. -Ennis on

the brief) for the motion.
.A&. A. G. Riddle and Mr. H. E. Davis opposing.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error recovered judgment in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, against the District, for
five thousand dollars, in an action on the case for personal
injuries, on the 17th day of January, 1885, which judgment
was affirmed in general term on the 28th of May succeeding,
and the cause brought here on writ of error.
Under the act of Congress of March 3, 1885, (23 Stat. 443,)
no appeal or writ of error can be allowed from any judgment
or decree in any suit at law or in equity inf the Supreme Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of the District of Columbia, unless the matter in dispute exclusive of costs shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars, or
unless the validity of a patent or copyright is involved in the
suit, or the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States, is drawn in question
therein.
The judgment in the case at bar, as rendered at special
term, was for five thousand dollars- and costs, and this was
affirmed with costs, but not with interest; the general term
thereby simply declaring that it was satisfied to let the former
judgment stand. In all particulars material to the inquiry as
to the value of the matter in dispute, the record is the same
as in Railroad Company v. Tooo, 100 U. S. 112, where this
court, speaking by Mr. Chief Justice Waite, said: "In cases
brought here on writ of error for the re-examination of judgments of affirmance in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, the value of the matter in dispute is determined by
the judgment affirmed, without adding interest or costs."
The general rule has been repeatedly so laid down. Western
Union Telegraph Company v. Rogers, 93 U. S. 565; Walker
v. United States, 4 Wall. 163, 165; Enapp v. Banks, 2 How.
73; Hew York Elevated Railroad v. ifth NSational Bank,
118 U. S. 608.
Where interest, instead of accompanying the judgment or
decree as damages for the detention of a specific amount
adjudged or decreed, is part of the claim litigated, and the
judgment or decree is so framed as to provide for it to run
from a period antecedent to the rendition of such judgment
or decree, or, in actions ex contractu, according to the terms
of the contract upon which the action is based, jurisdiction
may attach. Zeekendorf v. Johnson, 123 U. S. 617; The
Patasco,12 Wall. 451; The Rio Grande, 19 Wall. 178.
This result would have followed here, if, by the judgment
of affirmance, interest had been directed to be added to the
judgment at special term. As it is, however, the judgment
falls below the amount necessary to give us jurisdiction.
Upon the trial, the following, among other instructions,
were asked for the defendant and refused:

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. GA±NN1ON.
Opinion of the Court.

The present government of the District of Columbia having
been imposed b the people of the District without any power
or opportunity on the part of said people to accept or reject
the same, the District cannot be held responsible for the negligence of said government."
"The District of Columbia, under the form of government
existing at the time of the accident which is the subject matter
of this suit, is not liable for damages resulting from said accident."
"If the care of the streets of the city of Washington, as a
public duty, is imposed by the statutes upon the District of
Columbia, the performance of which is for the general benefit,
and the District derives no profit from it, then no action can
be maintained against the District for damages resulting from
a neglect to perform such public duty."
"The present form of government of the District of Columbia, consisting, as it does, of officers who are all appointed and
paid by the United states, without any power to levy taxes
or expend money except as directed by Congress, is not of
such a character as to make the District responsible in damages for any negligence of those officers."
It is contended on behalf of the plaintiff in error that the
validity of the authority conferred upon the District Commission6rs by Congress is drawn in question in this suit.
We do not agree with counsel in this view. The instructions
above quoted involved the acts of' Congress creating the District government only as bearing upon the question of the
liability of the District for negligence in failing to keep the.
streets in repair, and by way of construction, and the validity
of the acts themselves, or of the authority exercised under
them, was not denied. The case of Baltimore and Potomac
RailroadCompany v. Hopkins, ante, 210, is decisive that jurisdiction cannot be maintained on this ground under such circumstances. The writ of error will therefore be
__

Dismissed.

E ErSO,, No. 183. In error to the
Argued March 6, 1889. Decided April 1,

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v.

District of Columbia.

_D

OCTOBER TERI,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

1889. MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER said that the same questions
were presented upon the record in this case as in the District oJ
Columbia, Plaintff in EBro?"v. Lawrence B. Gannon, No. 182, just
decided, and that for the reasons there given the writ of error
must be
Dismissed.

Mr. A. G. Riddle for plaintiff in error.
Mr'. S. S. Henkle for defendant in error.

STEVENS v. NICHOLS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 190. Argued March 11, 1889.-Decided April 1, 1889.

A petition for removal which alleges the diverse citizenship of the parties
in the present tense is defective, and if it does not appear in the record
that such diversity also existed at the commencement of the action, the
cause will be remanded to the Circuit Court with directions to send it
back to the state court, with costs against the party at whose instance
the removal was made.

THE case as stated by the court was as follows:
This action was commenced on the 25th day of July, 1881,
in one of the courts of Mllissouri, by the defendant in error
against the Texas and Atlantic Refrigerator Car Company, a
corporation of that State, Robert S. Stevens and Henry D.
Mfirick. Its object was to reach, and have applied in satisfaction of a judgment obtained by the plaintiff against the car
company, the several amounts due from Stevens and AMirick
on their subscriptions of stock in that company
Stevens and Mirick filed a joint petition for the removal of
the case into the Circuit CoXct of the United States, upon the
ground of the diverse citizenship of the parties. The allegation in the petition was that the plaintiff "is a citizen of the
State of Missouri," and that the defendants "are not citizens

