KNaOWLTON v. WATERTOWN.
Statement of the Case.

inability to serve process occasioned by the defendant's absence
from the State. It has provided for no other case of inability
to make service. If this is an omission, the courts cannot
supply it. That is for the legislature to do. Mere effort on
the part of the defendant to evade service surely cannot be
a valid answer to the statutory bar. The plaintiff must sue
out his process and take those steps which the law provides
for commencing an action and keeping it alive.
The judgment of the Cir"cuit Court must be aflrmed.

Spalding v. Watertown, No. 201. Error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Wisconsin. Argued
Mlarch 13, 1889. Decided April 8, 1889. MUa. JUSTICE BRADLEY.
This case is precisely like the one just considered, and judgment
of affirmance must be rendered in this also.
Affirmed.
lfr. George P. Miller for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. George W. Bird and Mr. Daniel Hall for defendant in error.

KNOWLTON v. WATERTOWN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 198.

Argued March 13, 1889.-Decided April 8, 1889.

Amy v. Watertown, Aro. 2, ante, 320, affirmed and applied to this case.
In Wisconsin an action is not commenced for the purpose of stopping the
running of the statute of limitations until service of process had been
effected, or until service had been attempted and followed up by actual
service within sixty days or publication within that time.

THIS was an action in contract to recover on bonds issued by
the municipality of Watertown, in Wisconsin. Judgment for
the defendant. The plaintiffs sued out this writ of error. The
case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

M21r. George P. .iller for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. George W. Bird and
in error.

uMR.

JUsTICE BRADLEY

r. .Daniel Hall for defendant

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought to recover the amount of 6 bonds payable August 1st, 1863; 71 half-yearly coupons due from February 1, 1858, to August 1, 1863; 31 half-yearly coupons for
$40 each, due from January 1, 1858, to January 1, 1873; and
31 other half-yearly coupons for $40 each, due from January 1,
1858, to January 1, 1873. A summons at the suit of Elijah W.
Carpenter and Edwin F. Knowlton was issued on the 29th of
March, 1873, and served by the marshal on the 2d day of April,
1873, upon the city clerk and the city treasurer, and upon
Chris. Mayer, an alderman of the city who was elected mayor
at the city election April 1, 1873, but not yet inducted into
the office. The court, on motion, declared that the summons
was not lawfully served, and made an order authorizing the
clerk to return the summons to the marshal to be served on
the defendant according to law or for such further action as
the plaintiffs might direct.
Nothing more was done until the 9th of January, 1878,
when the said Carpenter and Knowlton sued out an alias
summons (so called), which was served by the marshal on the
23d of December, 1882, upon Rohr, the last mayor (but not
then mayor); Bieber, city clerk; Gardner, city attorney; and
Baxter, the last (but not then) president or chairman of the
board of street commissioners. As Carpenter had died on
the 1st of September, 1881, no further proceedings were had
on this last attempt at service; but on the 19th of June, 1883,
an order was applied for and made by the court that the cause
be revived in favor of Edwin F. Knowlton as executor of Carpenter and said Knowlton individually. Thereupon the new
plaintiffs filed their complaint and issued a new summons,
tested 29th.March, 1873, which was served by the marshal on
the 26th of June, 1883, upon the city clerk, the city attorney,

]KNOWLTON v. WATERTOWN.
Opinion of the Court.

and the last-elected chairman of the board of street commissioners. On the 14th of July, 1883, the defendant's attorneys
entered an appearance to the action, and subsequently filed an
answer, containing a general denial and a plea of the statute
of limitations. The plaintiffs replied to this latter plea by
amending their complaint, and setting up, as in the case of Amy
et al. v. Watertown, No. 2, just decided, a conspiracy on the
part of the officials and people of Watertown to prevent a service of process on the city, specifying the conduct of the mayor
and aldermen in resigning their offices and meeting in secret
for the transaction of business, etc. (See the report of the case
referred to, ante, 320.) They added the following averment:
"Said plaintiffs further allege that in the above-entitled action said plaintiffs, on the 29th day of March, 1873, filed a
precipe for a summons and an undertaking for costs, and a
summons was issued in due conformity to law and placed in
the bands of the United States marshal for service, and that
on April 2, 1873, the said marshal, after due and diligent
search and inquiry, served the said summons on those persons
whom, according to the best information he could derive, he
had ascertained to be the mayor and city clerk of said city of
Watertown, and on the same day returned the said summons
as served according to law; that on April 22d, 1873, the said
city of Watertown appeared specially in said action for the
purpose of moving to set aside the service of said summons on
the ground that the persons on whom the said summons had
been served were not, in fact, the mayor and city clerk of said
city; that on June 19, 1873, the said motion came on to be
heard, and this court ordered that the service of said summons
be set aside for the reason that the persons so served were
not the mayor and city clerk of said city, and ordered that the
said summons be returned to the marshal to be served according to law; that since said date the said marshal has not been
able to ascertain who were the mayor and city clerk or mayor
or city clerk of said city or the persons on whom process could
be served.
"Said plaintiffs further allege that, notwithstanding they
have exercised due diligence and hired attorneys and agents

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of having process served on said city, they
have been unable to this date to serve or have served the summons in this action on the mayor of said city, or on that person who, by law, should exercise the functions of mayor of
said city."
The defendant filed an answer and an amended answer to
this amended complaint. The amended answer contains the
following special rejoinder to the averment respecting the
issuing and service of process in 1873:
"Fourth. And, further answering said amended complaint,
this the said defendant alleges, that on or-about the 29th day
of March, 1873, the Elijah W. Carpenter and Edwin F. Knowlton named in said complaint filed with the clerk of this court
a precipe for a summons, wherein they were named as plaintiffs and this defendant was named defendant, and an undertaking for costs, and a summons, issued pursuant to said
przcipe, was then placed in the hands of the United States
marshal for said district for service, and that on or about the
2d day of April, 1873, said marshal returned said summons to
this court with the following return of service thereon indorsed, to wit: 'Served on the within-named The City of
Watertown by delivering to August Tauck, city clerk, and
Fred Meyer, city treasurer, of said city, and Chris. Meyer, an
alderman from the first ward of said city and an acting member of the board of. aldermen thereof, and mayor elect of said
city at the city election held April 1, 1873, each a copy of the
within summons this April 2, 1873, there being no other person
acting as mayor of said city;' that on or about June 19, 1873,
on motion of defendant, appearing specially for that purpose,
the said pretended service of said summons was decided and
held to be illegal and void by this court on the ground that
said summons had not been served in the manner prescribed
by law, and the same was then ordered to be returned to said
marshal to be served according to law; and that said summons
was not served upon this defendant at any time within sixty
days after it was so as aforesaid placed in the hands of the
said marshal for service, nor within sixty days after the said
pretended service thereof was so decided and held by said

KNqOWLTON v. WATERTOW-L.
Opinion of the Court.

court to be illegal and void, and that the said summons was
not and never has been at any time served upon said defendant, and no copy thereof has ever been delivered to or left
with the mayor of said city, and that no action attempted to
be commenced by the said summons or said pretended service
thereof was at or before or since the time of the alleged decease of said Carpenter pending or existing in said court; that
no other summons against this defendant, wherein said Carpenter and Knowlton were made plaintiffs, was ever issued out
of said court or attempted to be issued on this defendant in or
about the year 1873, and that the said summons is the identical and only summons against this defendant wherein said
Carpenter and Knowlton were named as plaintiffs, mentioned
or referred to in the said amended complaint. And this defendant, further answering, avers and alleges that this the first
above-entitled action against this defendant was first commenced on or about and not before the 19th day of June, 1883,
by said plaintiffs herein then or soon thereafter delivering the
summons, wherein they are named as plaintiffs, in the aboveentitled action, to the United States marshal of said district
to be served, and that on or about the 26th day of June, 1883,
the said marshal made the delivery of the copies thereof of
which he made his return, indorsed upon said summons and
which is now on file in this action, and that on the 16th day
of July, 1883, this defendant duly appeared herein and thereafter submitted itself fully to the jurisdiction of this court,
and, as this defendant is informed and believes, the said plaintiffs never attempted to commence this said action nor used
any diligence to commence the same before said 19th day of
June, 1883.
"Fifth. And this the said defendant, for a further and
separate defence, which it will insist upon herein to this said
action and to the whole thereof and to each and every cause
of action set forth in said amended complaint, avers and alleges,
that neither this said action nor any of the causes of action
averred or set forth in said amended complaint accrued within
the six years next before the 19th day of June, 1883, nor on
nor since the day and year last aforesaid, and that on or after

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

and not before the said 19th day of June, 1883, the summons
last above mentioned was first delivered to the United States
marshal for service and to be served on this defendant, and
that the same never was or had been delivered to such marshal
nor to any officer or person for service or to be served on this
defendant or otherwise before said 19th day of June, 1883;
and this said defendant further avers and alleges that neither
this said action nor any of the causes of action in the said
amended complaint stated nor any part thereof accrued within
six years before the commencement of this the above-entitled
action, and that the said action was not commenced before
the said 19th day of June, 1883, nor was it commenced within
the six years limited by law for the commencement thereof
after the same accrued, and is barred, the whole thereof, by
the statute of limitations of the State of Wisconsin; that as
to all the bonds, interest warrants, and coupons described in
said;complaint and as to each and every one of said bonds,
interest warrants, and coupons the said defendant saith and
avers that each and all of said several causes of action in said
complaint stated did not nor did any or either of them accrue
thereon within the six years next before 'the commencement
of this action, and that this said action and the whole thereof
and each and every part thereof is barred by the statute of
limitations of the State of Wisconsin."
The plaintiff demurred to this amended answer, but the demurrer was overruled, and the plaintiffs having declined to
plead further, judgment was given for the defendant.
It is plain from the description in the complaint of the securities sued on, that most of them had become barred by the
statute of limitations before the first summons was sued out in
March, 1873. Only the last six years of coupons, being two
sets of $40 each, and amounting to $960, were not barred at
that time. Of course all the bonds and coupons were barred
in June, 1883, when the last summons was issued, unless some
cause existed for suspending or avoiding the operation of the
statute. The plaintiffs relied on two grounds for this purpose: first, the impediments thrown in the way of the service
of process by the defendant and its officers; secondly, the

KNOWLTON v. WATERTOWN.
Opinion of the Court.

actual commencement of an action in 1873 and keeping it on
foot until the final service of process in 1883.
The first of these grounds was considered and held to be
insufficient in the case of Amy v. Watertown, (No. 2,) just
decided, ante, 320. The second does not require an elaborate
examination. Without stopping to inquire whether the process
issued in 1873 could be kept on foot for five or ten years with-.
out any legal service, and without complying with the statute
provided for in such cases, it is enough to say, that, by the
laws of Wisconsin, an action is not commenced for the purpose of stopping the running of the statute of limitations
until service of process has been effected, or until service has
been attempted and followed up by actual service within sixty
days or publication within that time. The text of the law on
this subject is found in §§ 4239 and 4240 of the Revised Statutes of Wisconsin, published in 1818. The prior edition of
1858 contained substantially the same provisions. See Rev.
Stat. Wis. 1858, 822. The sections referred to are as follows:
"Section 4239. An action shall be deemed commenced,
within the meaning of any provision of law which limits the
time for the commencement of an action, as to each defendant when the summons is served on him, or on a co-defendant
who is a joint contractor or otherwise united in interest with
him.
"Section 4240. An attempt to commence an action shall be
deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the
meaning of any provision of law, which limits the time for
the commencement of an action, when the summons is delivered, with the intent that it shall be actually served, to the
sheriff or other proper officer of the county in which the defendants, or one of them, usually or last resided; or if a corporation organized under the laws of this State be defendant,
to the sheriff or the proper officer of the county in which it
was established by law, or where its general business is transacted, or where it keeps an office for the transaction of business, or wherein any officer, attorney, agent or other person
upon whom the summons may by law be served, resides or
has his office; or if such corporation has no such place of

OCTOBER TERI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

business, or any officer or other person upon whom the summons may by law be served, known to the plaintiff, or if such
defendant be a non-resident, or a non-resident corporation, to
the sheriff or other proper officer of the county in which plaintiff shall bring his action. But such an attempt must be followed by the first publication of the summons, or the service
thereof within sixty days. If the action be in a court not of
record, the service thereof must be made with due diligence."
Now, it is clear from what was said in the case of Amy
v. Watertown, (No. 1,) ante, 301, that there was never any
legal service of process upon the defendant in this case. The
summons was never served upon the mayor of the city, or
upon any person having or exercising the powers of mayor,
and there is no pretence that the directions of § 4240 were
followed or attempted to be. The action was really not commenced within the meaning of the statute until the attorneys
of the defendant voluntarily entered a general appearance.
This was done on the 14th of July, 1883. At that time more
than ten years and a half had elapsed since the last coupon
sued on became due.
We have no hesitation, therefore, in saying, that the
court below committed no error in overruling the plaintiffs'
demurrer and giving judgment for the defendant. That
judgment is
___
Aflrmed.
KNOWLTON V. WATERTOWN, NO. 199, SPALDING V. WATERTOWN,
No. 200. Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Wisconsin. Argued Mlarch 13, 1889. Decided
April 8, 1889.

31,R. JusTIcE BRADLEY: These cases are, in all essential respects,
the same as that of No. 198, in which the opinion has just been
announced, and the same judgment-of affirmance - is therefore
rendered therein.
Affirmed.
.Mr. George P. Miller for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. George W. Bird and Mr. Daniel Hall for defendant in error.

