SMITH v. ADAMS.
Syllabus.

the report of the master. The ruling that a royalty was established, as made in the first report, had been repudiated by it,
and no evidence of the value of the invention to the defendants was adduced except the conjectural estimates stated; and
they furnished no satisfactory basis for any damages, much
less data, which authorized the specific finding made as to the
damages for each drill used. Opinions not founded on knowledge were of no value. Conclusions from such opinions were
at best mere guesses. By the decision rendered a settled rule
of law was violated, that actual, not speculative, damages must
be shown, and by clear and definite proof, to warrant a recovery for the infringement of a patent. As was said long ago
by this court: "Actual damages must be calculated, not imagined; and an arithmetical calculation cannot be made without
certain data on which to make it." New York v. Ransom, 23
How. 487, 488. There was no question in this case of damages'
arising from lost sales, or injurious competition, for no machines
had been manufactured and put on the market by the patentee,
or by the complainants, his assignees.
No legal ground being shown for the recovery of specific
damages for the alleged infringement of the patents, the decree must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to enter a
dec.reefor the corrmlainantsfornominal damages.

SMITH v. ADAMS.
APPEA-L FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
DAKOTA.
No. 1498. Submitted March 11, 189.-Decided April 1, 1889.

The validity of an election to determine the county seat of a county in
Dakota under the laws of the Territory, when presented to the courts in
the form prescribed by those laws, becomes a subject of action within
the jurisdiction of the territorial court, whose judgment thereon is subject to appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory.
"By the matter in dispute," as that phrase is used in the statutes conferring
jurisdiction on this court, is meant the subject of litigation, the matter

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
upon which the action is brought and issue is joined, and in relation to
which, if the issue be one of fact, testimony is taken; and its pecuniary
value may be determined not only by the money judgment prayed, but,
in some cases, by the increased or diminished value of the property
directly affected by the relief prayed, or by the pecuniary result to one
of the parties immediately from the judgment.
A promise by a third person to grant to a litigant certain lands, or make
particular donations exceeding .$5000 in value in case of a successful
prosecution of a suit, will not confer jurisdiction on this court, if without such promise or conditional donation the court would not have the
requisite jurisdiction.
A judgment of a lower appellate court, which reverses the judgment of the
court of original jurisdiction and remands the case to it for further proceedings, is not a final judgment.
A judgment of reversal is only final when it also enters or directs the entry
of a judgment which disposes of the case.

MoTIONs To Dismiss oR AFFim. The case, as stated by the
court in its opinion, was as follows:
The facts disclosed by the record are briefly as follows:
The Political Code of Dakota, in force in 1886, in providing
for the organization of counties and the location of their
county seats, authorizes the Governor of the Territory, upon
proper application of the voters of any unorganized county, to
take measures for its organization, and for that purpose to
appoint commissioners to locate the county seat temporarily,
and to appoint officers of the county to hold their offices until
the next general election. Political Code, c. 21, §§ 2, 3 and 4.
It then directs that, at the first general election subsequent to
such organization, the legal voters of the county shall designate
on their ballots the place of their choice for county seat, and
that the place thus designated receiving a majority of all the
votes cast shall thereafter be the county seat, but that, if no
place receives a majority of such votes, the place designated
as the county seat temporarily shall remain the county seat
until changed as provided in a subsequent section. c. 21, § 6.
That section declares in substance that, upon petition of two
thirds of the qualified voters of the county, it shall be the
duty of the county commissioners to notify the voters to again
designate upon their ballots at the next succeeding general

SMITH v. ADAMS.
Statement of the Case.

election the place of their choice, and if, upon the canvass of
such votes, any of the places thus designated shall receive two
thirds of the votes cast, such place shall be the county seat.
c. 21, § 7.
On the 30th of July, 1886, Congress passed an act "to prohibit the passage of local or special laws in the Territories of
ihe United States, to limit territorial indebtedness, and for
other purposes." 24 Stat. 170, c. 818. The first section, among
other things, enacts: "That the legislatures of the Territories
of the United States now, or hereafter to be, organized, shall
not pass local or special laws in any of the following enumerated cases, that is to say: granting divorces; changing the
names of persons or places; laying out, opening, altering and
working roads or highways; vacating roads, town plats, streets,
alleys and public grounds; locating or changing county seats;
regulating county and township affairs; regulating the practice
in courts of justice; regulating the jurisdiction and duties
of justices of the peace, police magistrates and constables,"
etc. The 7th section declares that -all acts and parts of acts
subsequently passed by any territorial legislature in conflict
with the provisions of this act of Congress shall be null and
void.
The county of Brown in Dakota was organized under the
provisions of the Political Code, and the city of Columbia was
designated by the commissioners as the county seat temporarily, and it remained as such county seat until some time in
1887, no other place having been designated by a majority of
the voters of the county. On the 11th of March, 1887, the
territorial legislature passed an act "to provide for the relocation of county seats in counties where county seats have been
located by a vote less than a majority of all the electors voting
thereon." Laws of 1887, c. 173, p. 369. ' Section 1 of this act,
as amended on the same day when the original act took effect,
provides: "That in all counties in this Territory having a
population not less than twelve thousand as shown by the
census of 1885, and having an area of not less than forty-eight
Congressional townships, and in which the present county seat
thereof has been heretofore temporarily located under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

provisions of section four of chapter twenty-one of the Political
Code, and remaining the county seat under the provisions of
section six of chapter twenty-one of the Political Code, by
reason of the fact that no place received a majority of all the
votes cast at the election held under the provisions of said
section six of chapter twenty-one of the Political Code, there
shall be held a special election of the duly qualified voters of
such counties on the twelfth day of July, A.D. 1887, at which
election the question of the relocation of the county seat of
such counties shall be voted upon: _Pr'ovided, That such election shall not be held in any county unless there shall be presented to the judge of the District Court of the district in
which such county is situated, or in his absence from such
district, or in his inability to act, to the Chief Justice of said
Territory, a petition signed by at least one third in number of
the electors of said county as shown by the vote cast at the
1-.st general election, praying said judge to issue an order
directing the holding of said election as provided in this act.
If said judge shall find that said petition is signed by one third
of the electors of said county as above provided, he shall issue
an order directing said election to be held in accordance with
the provisions of this act."
In other sections provision is made for giving notice of the
election and for canvassing the votes, and for removing the
records of the county to the place designated. Under this act
an election was held in Brown County on the 12th of July,
1887, on the question of relocating the county seat of that
county. A majority of the votes were cast in favor of the city
of Aberdeen as the county seat, and the county offices with
their records and papers were accordingly removed to it from
Columbia.
By a law of the Territory any elector, upon leave of the
District Court of the district embracing the county, may contest the validity of such an election. The plaintiff below, John
E. Adams, upon a petition setting forth his objections to the
election in question, was allowed by the District Court of the
Fifth District to contest its validity and to bring an action in
that court for that purpose. He accordingly filed a notice of

SMITH

. ADAMS.

Statement of the Case.

contest, addressed to the commissioner§ of the county, in the
nature of a complaint, commencing the action authorized.
The ground upon which the validity of the election was
assailed was that the act of the territorial legislature was in
conflict with the act of Congress of July 30, 1886, prohibiting
local or special legislation "locating or changing county seats;"
that the territorial act, though general in its terms, was so
drawn as to be applicable to only one county, no other county
coming within its provisions; that this fact was well known
at the time to the legislature; and that the object of passing
the act in this form was to evade and nullify the act of Congress. The complaint contains all other allegations as to the
status of the contestant, the appointment of the commissioners,
the condition of Brown County as an unorganized county, .the
temporary location of its county seat, the number of its population, the passage of the territorial act and the election thereunder and consequent proceedings, which were necessary to
raise the question of the validity of the election. To this
notice of contest or complaint the commissioners demurred on
the ground that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against them or either of them. The District
Court sustained the demurrer as a matter of form, and as the
plaintiff elected to stand upon his complaint without amendment, ordered that the same be dismissed. On appeal to the
Supreme Court of the Territory this judgment was reversed,
and the cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings according to law and the judgment of the appellate
court.
The reversal was ordered on the ground"First. That appellant's action was properly brought, and
the act of the legislature of the Territory of Dakota, passed
March 11, 1887, under which the election was held, by which
the county seat of Brown County, D. T., was removed from
Columbia to Aberdeen, is in conflict with the act of Congress,
approved July 30, 1886, prohibiting special legislation in the
Territories of the United States.
"Second. That the appellant has such an interest in the subject matter as enables him to maintain this action.

OCTOBER TER-M, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

"Third. That the judgment rendered is such a final judgment as entitles him to an appeal."
To review the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory the case was appealed to this court, the appeal being
allowed in open court, and also by the Chief Justice of the
Territory. There were five commissioners of the county, and
three of them afterwards prayed that the order allowing the
appeal be vacated, stating that they had become satisfied that
no further proceedings should be had in the case, and that, as
a majority of the board, they had, before the appeal bond was
filed or any citations were issued, directed their attorneys not
to perfect the appeal, but that the attorneys had disregarded
the ibstructions. It does not appear that any action was taken
in the court below upon the application.
It appears from documents filed in the court below after the.
appeal was taken, that on the 27th of June, 1887, the city of
Aberdeen conveyed to the county of Brown certain real property, exceeding in value $5000, situated within its limits, with
the building in process of erection thereon, to be held by the
county so long as the building should be used for a courthouse, but when the building ceased to be thus used the land
to revert to the grantor
The respondent now moves that the appeal be dismissed, or
that the judgment below be affirmed, for the following among
other reasons:
I. Because this court has no jurisdiction of the subject matter
of the action, no Federal question being involved.
(a) The matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, does not exceed
the sum of five thousand dollars; no sum of money being in
dispute and no right the value of which can be calculated or
ascertained.
(b) No question is presented involving the validity of any
patent or copyright, nor is there drawn in question the validity
of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the
United States.
II. Because it appears from the record that before the appeal
to the Supreme Court of the United States was perfected a
majority of the county commissioners declined to perfect and

SMTITH v. ADAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

prosecute the same, and directed their attorneys not to perfect
it, the instructions being given before any bond on appeal had
been approved or citations issued.
lMr. George F. Edmunds and .Xr. C. F. Palmer for the
motions.
Mr. Samuel Shellabarger and XA&. Jeremiah XA. Wilson
opposing.
IMRa. JUSTICE, FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The designation of the county seat of a county in Dakota,
or providing for its designation by popular election, was a
matter properly belonging to the legislative department of the
territorial government. It was not a matter by itself for judicial cognizance. But when the law of the Territory left the
designation of a county seat to the voters of the county, and
provided that the validity of the election could be contested
by any competent elector of the county before the District
Court of the district within which the county was situated,
upon leave obtained from such court for that purpose, and
prescribed the mode in which such contest should be prosecuted by the contesting elector, and defended by the commissioners of the county under whose direction the election was
held, and proofs be taken upon the matter in issue, and that
the validity of the election should then be determined by the
District Court -the designation of a county seat under the
law became the subject of judicial cognizance, a case or controversy arising upon such proceedings being taken to which
the judicial power of the Territory attaches. This has been
substantially the meaning given to the terms "cases and controversies," used in the judicial article of the Constitution defining the limits of the judicial power of the United States.
By those terms are intended the claims or contentions of litigants brought before the courts for adjudication by regular
proceedings established for the protection or enforcement of
rights, or the prevention, redress, or punishment of wrongs.
Whenever the claim or contention of a party takes such a

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

form that the judicial power is capable of acting upon it, then
it has become a case or controversy. Thus, in Osborn v. Bank
of the United States, 9 Wheat. 38, 819, this court, speaking by
Chief Justice Marshal, after quoting the third article of the
Constitution declaring the extent of the judicial power of the
United States, said: "This clause enables the judicial department to receive jurisdiction to the full extent of the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States, when any question respecting them shall assume such a form that the judicial
power is capable of acting on it. That power is capable of
acting only when the subject is submitted to it by a party
who asserts his rights in the form prescribed by law. It then
becomes a case, and the Constitution declares that the judicial
powdr shall extend to all cases arising under the Constitution,
laws and treaties of the United States."
We are of opinion, therefore, that the validity of an election
to determine the county seat of a county in Dakota under the
laws of the Territory, when presented to the courts in the forms
prescribed by those laws, becomes a subject of action within
the jurisdiction of the territorial court. As thus presented, it
is a case of controversy between an elector of the county and
its commissioners, and the judgment thereon of the District
Court of the Territory was subject to appeal to its Supreme
Court. Whether the judgment of that court can be reviewed
here must depend upon the act of Congress of March 3, 1885,
23 Stat. 443, c. 355, which provides as follows:
"SEC. 1. That no appeal or writ of error shall hereafter be
allowed from any judgment or decree in any suit at law or in
equity in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or
in the Supreme Court of any of the Territories of the United
States, unless the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall
exceed the sum of five thousand dollars.
"SEC. 2. That the preceding section shall not apply to any
case wherein is involved the validity of any patent or copyright, or in which is drawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United
States; but in all such cases an appeal or writ of error may be
brought without regard to the sum or value in dispute."

SMITH v. ADkMS.
Opinion of the Court.

The objection that no Federal question is involved undoubtedly has reference to the second section of the above act,
which provides that the appellate jurisdiction of this court
over cases from the territorial courts shall not be determined
by the amount in dispute, if the validity of a treaty or a statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States, is
drawn in question, but that in such cases an appeal or writ of
error may be brought without regard to the sum or value in
dispute. No such question being involved, our appellate jurisdiction in this case depends upon whether the amount in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum designated. By matter in dispute is meant the subject of litigation, the matter
upon which the action is brought and issue is joined, and in
relation to which, if the issue be one of fact, testimony is
taken. It is conceded that the pecuniary value of the matter
in dispute may be determined, not only by the money judgment prayed, where such is the case, but in some cases by the
increased or diminished value of the property directly affected
by the relief prayed, or by the pecuniary result to one of the
parties immediately from the judgment. Thus a suit to quiet
the title to parcels of real property, or to remove a cloud therefrom, by which their use and enjoyment by the owner are impaired, is brought within the cognizance of the court, under
'the statute, only by the value of the property affected. Alexander v. Pendleton, 8 Cranch, 462; Peirsoll v. Elliott, 6
Pet. 95; Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402; Jones v. Bolles, 9
Wall. 364, 369, and Holland v. Challen, 110 U. S.15. So in a
case impeacbing the right to an office, the amount of the salary
attached to it is considered as determining the value of the
matter in dispute. Thus in Smith v. ltfiney, 116 U. S. 167,
173, where the application was for a writ of prohibition
restraining proceedings by court-martial against an officer, an
objection being taken to the appellate jurisdiction of this
court on the ground that the subject matter of the suit was
incapable of pecuniary estimation, the court, by Mr. Justice
Gray, replied: "The matter in dispute is whether the petitioner is subject to a prosecution which may end in a sentence
dismissing him from the service, and depriving him of a salary,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

as paymaster-general during the residue of his term as such,
and as pay inspector afterwards, which in less than two years
would exceed the sum of five thousand dollars. :Rev. Stat. §§
1556, 1565, 1624, arts. 8, 22, 48, 53. The case cannot be distinguished in principle from those in which it has been held
that a judgment awarding a peremptory writ of mandamus to
admit one to an office, or a judgment of ouster from an office,
might be reviewed by this court upon writ of error, if the
saiary during the term of the office would exceed the sum
named in the statute defining its appellate jurisdiction.
Columbian- Ins. Co. v. lfkeelwright, 7 Wheat. 534; United
States v. Addison, 22 How. 174." Not doubting the correctness of the doctrine thus stated, we do not perceive how it can
help the appellants. It is true they represent the county, but
it is impossible to state any rule, by which the benefit the
county may gain, or the damage it may suffer from the result
of the election contested, can be estimated. The fact that the
county may acquire or lose a parcel of land in Aberdeen exceeding in value $5000, with the building thereon, by the'con.Jitional conveyance of that city, according as the county seat
is kept at or removed from the place designated as county
seat by the election, the validity of which is contested, does
not obviate the difficulty. The acquisition or loss of the land
in question is not a necessary consequence of the election for
the county seat, such result not being created by law, but by
a mere accident arising from a voluntary gift by Aberdeen,
made contingent upon the removal of the county seat to that
place and its continuance there. In Smith v. Whitney, the
salary was given by the law and went with the tenure of the
office. A promise by a third person to grant to a litigant certain lands or make particular donations in case of a successful
prosecution of a suit will not confer jurisdiction on this court
to review the judgment, if without such promise or conditional
donation the court would not have the requisite jurisdiction.
We think, therefore, there is not in the case such an amount
in dispute as to enable this court to take jurisdiction of the
appeal. Upon this ground the appeal must be dismissed.
It is not necessary, therefore, to consider the alleged refusal

LYON v. ALLEY.
Syllabus.

of a majority of the county commissioners to prosecute the
appeal, and their application to the court below to vacate
the order allowing it. The appeal had been perfected, and the
jurisdiction over the cause thus transferred to this court, before the attention of the court below was called to the action
of the majority. Whether such majority could afterwards
authorize a withdrawal of the appeal, holding the relation the
commissioners do to the county, need not now be discussed.
But there is a ground, not taken by the respondent, which
forces itself upon our consideration, and that is, that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory is not in form a
final judgment. It not merely reversed the judgment of the
District Court, but remanded the cause to that court for further proceedings according to law and the judgment of the
appellate court. A judgment of a lower appellate court
which reverses the judgment of the court of original jurisdiction, and remands the case to it for further proceedings, is
not a final judgment. A judgment of reversal is only final
when it also enters or directs the entry of a judgment which
disposes of the case. On this ground, therefore, as well as on
the previous ground, the appeal must be
Dismissed.

LYON v. ALLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No.149.

Argued January 7, 8, 1889.-Decided April 1, 1889.

Under the laws in force in the District of Columbia, when the cause
of action in this case arose, the failure of the commissioner of improvements to deposit with the register a statement exhibiting the
cost of setting the curbstone and paving the footway in front of each
lot or part of lot, separately, and the amount of tax to be paid by each
proprietor, the failure of the register to place without delay in the
hands of the collector a list of the persons taxed and the failure of the
collector to give the required notice to such persons, rendered invalid a
VOL. cxxx--12

