OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

tum has long since been exploded, and as "there can be no
civil right where there can be no legal remedy, and there can
be no legal remedy for that which is itself illegal," Bank of
United States v. Owens, 2 Pet. 527, 539, it is clear that contracts in direct violation of statutes expressly forbidding their
execution, cannot be enforced.
The question is not one involving want of authority to
contract on account of irregularity of organization or lack of
affirmative grant of power in the charter of a corporation, but
a question of the absolute want of power to do that which
is inhibited by statute, and, if attempted, is in positive terms
declared "utterly null and void."
"The rule of law," said Parker, C. J., in Russell v. DeGrand,
15 Mass. 35, 39, "is of universal operation, that none shall, by
the aid of a court of justice, obtain the fruits of an unlawful
bargain."
We cannot assist the plaintiff to get payment for efforts to
accomplish what the law declared should not be done, and the
judgment must be
__________Afflrimed.

ROBERTSOK v. SALOMON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 446. Argued January 16, 1889.-Decided April 15, 1889.

In settling the meaning and application of tariff laws, the commercial
designation of an article is the first and most important thing to be
ascertained.
When the commercial designation of an article fails to give it its proper
place in the classification of a tariff law, then resort must be had to its
common designation.
In an action to recover back duties paid on an importation of white beans,
which were classified at the Custom House as "vegetables," in the general category of "articles of food," it was error in the court to exclude
evidence offered by the collector to prove the common designation of
"beans" as "an article of food."

THE case is stated in the opinion.

ROBERTSON v. SALOMON.
Opinion of the Court.

Mir. Solicitor Generalfor plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph H. Coate for defendants in error.
iib'. Henry Edwin Tremain and Mr. Mason W. Tyler were
with Mr.. Ohoate on his brief.
MR.JusTIcE

BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought by the defendants in error against
the collector of New York, to recover an alleged excess of
duties on goods imported. The goods referred to were white
beans, upon which the collector levied a duty of twenty per
cent ad 'valrem,, as garden seeds. This charge was paid under
protest; the plaintiffs insisting that the article was exempt
from duty under the free list, as seeds "not otherwise provided
for," or, if not free, they were only dutiable at ten per cent,
as "vegetables." The Treasury Department finally conceded
that the beans did not properly come under the denomination
of "garden seeds," and directed ten per cent to be refunded;
but still insisted that they are liable to a duty of ten per cent
as " vegetables," in the general category of "articles of food."
The plaintiffs adhere to their first position that beans are free
of duty, as seeds "not otherwise provided for; " and that is
the only question here presented.
The clauses of the law which are to be construed in determining the controversy are to be found in the last customs
duties act, passed March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 488, c. 121, as a substitute for Title XXXIII of the Revised Statutes. Among the
various schedules attached to this act, classifying the articles
.ubject to, or free from, import duties, is one entitled "Provisions," in which are enumerated, amongst other things, beef
and pork, cheese, butter, lard, wheat, rye, barley, indian corn,
oats, meal, flour, potato or corn starch, rice, hay, different kinds
of fish, pickles, potatoes; vegetables in their natural state, or
in salt or brine, not specifically enumerated or provided for in
this act, vegetables prepared or preserved, currants, dates,
fruits of various kinds, almonds, walnuts, peanuts, etc. Beans
are not mentioned specifically in this list. If they are properly

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

classed under the term "vegetables in their natural state," they
are subject to a duty of ten per cent, as contended for by the
government.
Under the head of "Free List - Sundries," we find amongst
a great number of other miscellaneous articles, the following:
"Plants, trees, shrubs, and vines of all kinds not otherwise
provided for, and seeds of all kinds, except medicinal seeds,
not specially enumerated or provided for in this act." If the
white beans imported by the plaintiffs are properly to be classified as "seeds," then they are free from all duty, as claimed
by the plaintiffs.
Schedule N, entitled "Sundries," contains a list of miscellaneous articles, (many of them articles of manufacture), subject to various rates of duty. The following is one of the
items of this schedule: "Garden seeds, except seed of the
sugar beet, 20 per cent ad valorem." If white beans are to
be classed as "garden seeds" then the original decision of the
collector was right. This decisioi, however, has been abandoned, and we think very properly. Although beans are often
planted in gardens as seed, yet, as a product, and a commodity
in the market, they are not generally denominated as "garden
seeds," any more than potatoes, which are also sometimes
planted as seed in gardens. The same consideration also applies in regard to the use of the more general term "seeds."
We do not see why they should be classified as seeds any
more than walnuts should be so classified. Both are seeds
in the language of botany or natural history, but not in commerce nor in common parlance.
On the other hand, in speaking generally of provisions,
beans may well be included under the term "vegetables."
As an article of food on our tables, whether baked or boiled,
or forming the basis of soup, they are used as a vegetable, as
well when ripe as when gTeen. This is the principal use to
which they are put. Beyond the common knowledge which
we have on this subject, very little evidence is necessary, or
can be produced. But on the trial, the parties deemed it important to introduce a great deal of testimony. The court,
however, did not allow the defendant to prove the common

ROBERTSON v. -SALOMON.
Opinion of the Court.

designation of beans as an article of food. It was shown by
the evidence that beans are generally sold and dealt in, under
the simple designation of "beans;" but that does not solve
the question as between the rival designations of "seeds" and
"vegetables." The common designation as used in every-day
life, when beans are used as food, (which is the great purpose
of their production,) would have been very proper to be shown
in the absence of further light from commercial usage. We
think that the evidence on this point ought to have been
admitted. In addition to this, the court told the jury that
"the commercial designation of the article, or what the article
is called in trade and commerce, or the name bean, has nothing
to do with the question." We think the court erred in this
instruction. The commercial designation, as we haye frequently decided, is the first and most important designation
to be ascertained in settling the meaning and application of
the tariff laws. See Arthur v. Lahey, 96 U. S. 112, 118;
B rt er v. Schell, 107 U. S. 617, 623 ; lMorthington v. Abbott,
124 U. S. 434, 436; Arthur's Executors v. Butterfteld, 125 U. S.
70, '5. But if the commercial designation fails to give an
article its proper place in the classifications of the law, then
resort must necessarily be had to the common designation.
We think, therefore, that the court erred both in its charge
and in the exclusion of the evidence offered; especially as,
without any evidence, and with the common knowledge which
we all possess, the court might almost have been justified in
directing a verdict for the defendant.
We have not adverted to. a clause of the customs act in
which beans are specifically named, because we do not think
it applies to the case. We refer to that clause of the free list
which enumerates "drugs, barks, beans, berries, etc., any of
the foregoing of which are not edible and are in a crude state."
As this clause refers to articles "' not edible," it cannot include
beans of the character now under consideration.
Nor have we thought it necessary to refer particularly to
the case of Ferry v. Livingston, 115 U. S. 542, in which the
clauses of the law respecting "garden seeds" in Schedule N,
and "seeds of all kinds" in the free list are elaborately dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

cussed and commented on. There the question was between
"garden seeds" and "field seeds," and the decision depended
on the particular circumstances of the case. The opinion concludes with this declaration: "As this case rests for decision
on the facts found, it is not possible for this court to lay down
any general rules which will apply to cases differing in their
facts from this case." We regard our present decision as in
harmony with the decision in that case; and only refer to it
for the purpose of disclaiming any intention to dissent from it.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed,and the cause
remanded with instructions to order a new trial.

FRIEDLANDER v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRIOT OF TEXAS.
No. 236. Argued April 4, 5, 1889. -Decided

April 15, 1889.

A bill of lading, fraudulently issued by the station agent of a railroad company without receiving the goods named in it for transportation, but in
other respects according to the customary course of business, imposes
no liability upon the company to an innocent holder who receives it without knowledge or notice of the fraud and for a valuable consideration:
and this general rule is not affected in Texas by the statutes of that State.

THE court stated the case in its opinion as follows:
Friedlander & Co. brought suit in the District Court of
Texas, in and for the county of Galveston, against the Texas
and Pacific Railway Company, to recover for the non-delivery
of certain cotton named in an alleged bill of lading hereinafter
described, of which they claimed to be assignees for value,

their petition after counting upon said bill of lading, thus
continuing:

"That the said defendant, fraudulently contriving to avoid
its liability to these plaintiffs, pretends and alleges that the said
cotton was not so delivered as in and by said bill of lading is
recited and acknowledged, but that the said bill of lading was

