OCTOBER TERTA, 1888.
Syllabus.

PETITioN for writ of habeas corpus.

The case is stated in

the opiiion.
Mr. W. H Zamar for petitioner. Mr. S. F. Phillips and
Mr. J. G. Zachry were with him on the brief.
Mr. Solicitor General opposing.
MRi.

JUSTICE

ILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The only distinctions between this case and that of Gonshay-ee, in which the opinion has just been delivered, are:
First. That Captain Jack was sentenced to imprisonment
at hard labor in the penitentiary of Ohio for thirty years, and
the writ must, therefore, be directed to the keeper of that
institution at Columbus in that State.
Second. That it appears by the record that in the former
case the offence was committed on an Indian reservation,
'while in the case of Captain Jack the act was done within the
judicial district, but not upon such a reservation.
We do not consider that these differences have any influence
in the decision of the question as to the jurisdiction of the
.court which tried them both, and that therefore in this case,
as in the former, the writ of habeas corpus should issue.
Wriit granted.

REYNES v. DUMONT.
DUMON T v. FRY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 174,175.

Argued January 23, 24,1889. -Decided

April 8, 1889.

The controversy in this case involves the allowance in favor of the trustee
in bankruptcy of S. of liens upon certain bonds, owned in fact by C. and
D., though ostensibly belonging to C. only, as pledged to secure, by express agreement, the general balance of account of a New Orleans bank,

REYNES v. DUMvONT.
Statement of the Case.
of which C. was president; and also, by implication from the usage of
the banking business in which S. was engaged, C.'s general balance.
The court is of opinion upon the evidence that the bonds were pledged to
secure the remittance by the bank to S. of "exchange bought and paid
for," that is, bills drawn against shipments and purchased by advances
to the shippers, and that they cannot be held to make good a debit
balance of the bank created by the non-payment of certain drafts
drawn by it directly on Europe and unaccompanied by documents.
A banker's lien rests upon the presumption of credit extended in faith of
securities in possession or expectancy, and does not arise in reference to
securities in possession of a bank under circumstances, or where there
is a particular mode of dealing, inconsistent with such lien.
The pledge of these bonds to guarantee the remittance by the bank as
before stated and the circumstances under which they were left in the
possession of S., and had been made use of by C., preclude the allowance of the banker's lien claimed on behalf of S. as against the ultimate
indebtedness of C.
The receipt by D. and the assignee of C. of the remaining bonds and money
realized from bonds or coupons, after the satisfaction of the amounts
decreed as liens by the Circuit Court, did not deprive D. and C.'s assignee of the right of appeal. Embry v. Palmer, 107 U. S. 3, 8, approved.
Where the objection of want of jurisdiction in equity because of adequate
remedy at law is not made until the hearing on appeal, and the subjectmatter belongs to the class over which a court of equity has jurisdiction,
this court is not necessarily obliged to entertain such objection, even
though if taken in limine, it might have been worthy of attention.

THE case, as stated by the court in its opinion, was as

follows:
On the 14th of June, 187, Frederick Dumont, August
Henry Reine, and John David Moekel, who composed the firm
of F. Dumont & Co., filed their bill in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York
against Charles Iii. Fry, trustee of Schuchardt & Sons, bankrupts; Francois Laborde and E. H. Reynes, assignees of Charles
Cavaroc & Son, bankrupts; the Louisiana National Bank of
New Orleans, and N. W. Casey, receiver of the New Orleans
National Banking Association, claiming to be the owners of
two hundred and thirty-two bonds of the city of New Orleans,
each for the amount of one thousand dollars, which had been
in the possession of Schuchardt & Sons and were then in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

possession of Fry, their trustee in bankruptcy, who also held
moneys received from the coupons attached to the said bonds;
and by amendment set forth that the bonds were purchased
by Cavaroc & Son with the money of Dumont & Co., for their
joint account, but not in the name of Dumont & Co., nor in
the joint names of Dumont & Co. and Cavaroc & Son; that
Fry, trustee, refused to deliver up the bonds, and claimed to
hold them as security for sums due him from Cavaroc & Son
and Casey, as receiver; and that Fry is not entitled to hold
the bonds. The bill prays that he be decreed to deliver them
up, with the money received from the sale of coupons cut
therefrom, and for further relief.
Fry claimed to hold the bonds upon a banker's lien for a
balance of account due Schuchardt & Sons by Cavaroc & Son,
and upon a lien by agreement for an unsecured balance due
by the New Orleans National Banking Association, to the
extent of $100,000. A decree was rendered December 6, 1882,
sustaining the liens asserted by the defendant Fry, and directing him to account as to the amount of the same and of certain coupons which he had collected.
March 5, 1884, a final decree was entered, adjudging the
amounts due on account of the alleged liens respectively, and
directing that so much of the said bonds as might be necessary
to pay the same, with interest, should be sold under the direction of the master. This was done, and Fry was paid the
amount of said liens, and the balance was turned over to
Dumont & Co. and Reynes, surviving assignee, Laborde having
died pending the action.
The master's final report was confirmed February 11, 1885,
and appeals were prosecuted by Dumont & Co. and Reynes,
surviving assignee, to this court.
The following facts appear in evidence:
Sehuchardt & Sons were bankers at the city of New York
during the period covered by the transactions in question, and
correspondents and financial agents of Cavaroc & Son, who
were engaged in the commission and banking business in the
city of New Orleans. Charles Cavaroc, the senior member
of the latter firm, was at the same time president of the New

REYNTES v. DUMONT.
Statement of the Case.

Orleans National Banking Association, with which Schuchardt
& Sons had similar business relations. Two hundred and seventy-five bonds of the city of New Orleans, a large part of
them belonging to Dumont & Co., though it is not shown that
Schuchardt & Sons had notice of this, were left by Cavaroc &
Son with Schuchardt & Sons in September, 1870, the number
having been subsequently reduced to two hundred and thirtytwo.
The bonds were purchased in 1870, with the proceeds of
drafts on Dumont & Co. to the amount of about a million
francs, which had been renewed from time to time until after
the failure of Cavaroc & Son, when Dumont & Co. paid them
to the amount of 484,000 francs. Cavaroc & Son had negotiated drafts for 200,000 francs on Dumont & Co., with Schuchardt & Sons, shortly before the failure, growing out of the
original purchase of bonds, and these not having been paid
were charged back to Cavaroc & Son by-Schuchardt & Sons,
thereby contributing to produce a debit balance of $7454.22
on January 12, 1874, although protested drafts on Maxquelier
Fils for $6562.23 were also included.
These drafts for 200,000 francs had been accepted by Dumont
& Co., and were protested not for non-acceptance but for nonpayment; and an action was commenced January 3, 1874, by
Schuchardt & Sons against Dumont & Co. on their acceptances
in the Supreme Court of New York, and an attachment levied
on the bonds in question here, in the hands of Schuchardt &
Sons. Satisfaction of recovery in this suit would more than
pay the debit balance of Cavaroc & Son as finally stated in
these proceedings.
It was stipulated between the attorney for Dumont & Co.
and the attorneys for the assignee of Cavaroc & Son, that the
balance of the bonds and moneys to be paid over after the
liens awarded by the court were satisfied, should be divided
in the proportion of seventy-four per cent to Dumont & Co.
and twenty-six per cent to Cavaroc & Son.
Both the Cavarocs testify that the bonds were left with
Schuchardt & Sons for safe-keeping, Cavaroc, Jr., referring to
a particular loan on them in the fall of 1870, which led to their

OCTOBER TERU, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

being sent to New York, where they then remained on account
of the heavy express charge, and the fact that New York was
a better market in which to dispose of them; but Wells, a
member of Schuchardt & Sons, testifies:
"On the 20th of September, 1870, we deposited with i.
Morgan's Sons the above $275,000 New Orleans bonds against
a loan made by them of $200,000 to the Bank of New Orleans,
and $110,000 to 0. Cavaroc as'part collateral for those loans.
On the 21st December, 1870, M. Morgan's Sons returned us
the above bonds against the payment of the two loans. On
the 6th of March, 1871, we delivered $5000 of the above bonds
to Henry Beers by order of C. Cavaroc. On the 1st of April,
1871, we delivered $160,000 of above bonds to Marks & Febre
by order of C. Cavaroc. On the 29th of May, 1871, we delivered $110,000 of above bonds to M. Morgan's Sons against a
loan of $100,000. On the 30th May, 1871, Marks & Febre
returned us above $160,000 bonds, against which we loaned
Cavaroc $100,000, falling due 2nd of October, 1871. On the
2nd of October, 1871, M. Morgan's Sons returned us the
$110,000 bonds on payment of their loan. On the 27th of
February, 1872, we forwarded to Cavaroc, at New Orleans,
$8000 of above bonds as per his order. On the 13th of April,
1872, we delivered $160,000 of above bonds to Importers and
Traders' National Bank of this city by order of Cavaroc. On
the 28th of June, 1872, the Importers and Traders' National
Bank returned us the above $160,000 bonds. On the 31st of
August, 1872, we delivered $30,000 of above bonds to Spofford
Brothers & Co. by order of Cavaroc. On the 27th of May,
1873, we delivered $50,000 of the above bonds to the Importers
and Traders' National Bank of New York by order of Cavaroc.
On the 3d of September, 1873, the Importers and Traders'
National Bank returned the above $50,000 bonds."
He considers that the bonds were held by his firm for any
balances that the New Orleans National Banking Association
might owe, and says that Schuchardt & Sons held them up to
the time they were pledged to the bank as security for "whatever Cavaroc & Son might be indebted for," but that they had
no written authority to hold the bonds collaterally for the bank's

REYNES v. DUNIOT.

359.

Statement of the Case.

indebtedness, that he knew of, other than the letter of Cavaroc, Senior, of February 15, 1873, hereinafter set forth. He
testifies, however, that there was "a general understanding to
that effect arrived at with (in) conversations with 0. Cavaroc,
Jr., at different times when he was in New York; among
others, in August or September, 1873," although in another
portion of his evidence he says: "I think they were alluded to
in 1873, during his visit to New York, in the fall of 1873. I
feel quite confident they were alluded to in 1873," which is
"as positive" as he "can be upon the subject." Any such
understanding is specifically denied by Cavaroc, Jr., who
asserts that he -

"Never made any agreement, verbal or otherwise, in reference
to the bonds, with Mr. Wells or any one else, and never made
with Mr. Wells or any one living any agreement or arrangement about the bonds or any other bonds to be held as general
security in matters with the New Orleans National Banking
Association, or even C. Cavaroc & Son; never had any conversation with Mr. Wells about the bonds in any manner
whatever, outside of a remark, as above stated, in the summer
of 1873, to know if our trust was all right in their vault, which
any merchant would pass upon in conversation to be certain
that no accident happened to the trust or deposit for safekeeping."
The New Orleans National Banking Association dealt largely
in foreign bills of exchange, which it negotiated through Schuchardt & Sons. By the course of business the amount of the
foreign bills it remitted from time to time to Schuchardt &
Sons was credited by the latter to the former, and the latter
drew upon the former from time to time as funds were required.
According to the custom of business at New Orleans, advances
are made by bankers to shippers in anticipation of the actual
delivery of drafts with accompanying documents, and the
New Orleans Bank consequently advanced funds before it
could remit drafts, so as to be credited by Schuchardt & Sons
with their amount. For the mutual profit of both concerns
the bank had at times been permitted by Schuchardt and Sons
to draw in advance of remittances. Cavaroc & Son were not

OCTOBER TERAT,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

only bankers but large shippers of cotton abroad, and drew
against the proceeds of their bills of exchange, which were
accompanied by bills of lading.
On the 4th of December, 1871, Schuchardt & Sons wrote
the cashier of the New Orleans National Banking Association
the following letter:
"NEw Yonx, -Dec.4th, 1871.
N. AuGUSTINE., Esq., Cashier New Orleans BBanking Association, New Orleans, Louisiana.
"Dear Sir: In reply to your inquiry about drawing in
advance against purchases of exchange we beg to say that
we granted that facility at a time when your foreign exchange
business with us was much more extensive and consequently
more remunerative than at present, and when we held as
security a deposit of N. 0. city bonds. We were, moreover,
induced to make these advances (although, as we explained
at the time, we could make a much more lucrative use of the
money by using it here) on the assurance of Mr. Cavaroc that
you would only temporarily require such facilities, and that
your business would increase to such an extent that the future
would largely compensate us for any present sacrifices. To
our regret, however, such has not been the case, and your
business, instead of increasing, has greatly diminished. However, in order to evince our desire of doing all in our power
to contribute to the development of our correspondence, we
hereby authorize you to draw upon us in advance of remittances to the extent of $100,000 (one hundred thousand dollars), with the understanding that such drafts are to represent
exchange bought and paid for. We presume also that when
the loan of the Trust Co., which falls due on the 21st inst.,
will be paid the securities will be replaced in our possession."
February 6, 1873, the cashier of the bank wrote Schuchardt
& Sons:

REYNTES v. DUMONT.
Statement of the Case.

"NEW

ORLEANS,

.Feb'y 6, 1873.

"Mess. F. SCHUCHAIT & SONS, New York:
"Are we still authorized to draw, d dkcouvert, $100,000,
(one hundred thousand dollars,) against purchases of exchange
advised by wire?
H. T. BLAcHE, Cashier."
To which Schuchardt & Sons replied:
"NEW YORK, Feb'y 11, 1873.
"HENRY BLAoHE, Esq., Cashier of the N. 0. National Banking
Association, New Orleans:
"The credit of $100,000 (one hundred thousand dollars) d
djcouvert was predicated upon the deposit of New Orleans
city bonds, and on their withdrawal we, of course, supposed
the agreement cancelled.
F. ScHUCIHADT & SONS."

Whereupon the cashier answered:
"NEW ORLEANS, Feruary

15th, 1873.

"Messrs. SCHUCHARDT & SoNs, New York:
"Your letter of December 4th, 1871, authorized us to draw,
in advance of remittance, to the extent of $100,000, (one hundred thousand dollars,) represented by purchases of exchange,
advised by telegraph. There was no mention of a deposit of
city bonds to guarantee such overdraft, and we have been
acting ever since under the impression that the credit was still
in force. We now note that it is cancelled, and beg leave to
refer you to the private letter of the president on the subject.
H. T. BLAcHE, Cashier."

And on the same day, the president, Cavaroc, wrote Schuchardt & Sons a letter which he gives thus:
"NEW ORLEANS, .February15th, 1873.
"Mess. SOHUCHARDT & SoNs, New York:

"In your letter of the 11th instant you say: ' The credit of
$100,000, (one hundred thousand dollars,) a' djcouvert,was pred-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

icated upon the deposit of New Orleans city bonds, and on
their withdrawal we, of course, supposed the agreement cancelled.' You know that exchange at New Orleans is purchased
by making advances until such time as the drafts are delivered,
and it was with view of making our mutual transactions more
active that we asked this credit, 'd djcouvert,' at the time.
In view of your remark I have nothing to say, except to
authorize you to consider a portion of the bonds belonging to
my firm, which you have in your possession, as collateral security in case you should not be covered (en cas de djcouvert).
0. OCAVRoC, PPe8't."
On behalf of Fry the following was introduced as the
original:
"NEw ORL-EAxs,The 15 ff'vrier, 1873.
"Messieurs F. SCHUcHARDT & SoNs, New York:
"Messieurs & Amis: Bans votre lettre du 11 ct. vous dites:
'The credit of $100 M d dgeouvert was predicated upon the
deposit of New Orleans city bonds, and on their withdrawal
we, of course, supposed the agreement cancelled.'
"1Vous savez que le change , New Orleans est achet6 en
faisant des avances jusqu'& ce que les traites soient livr6es et
c'est afin d'activer nos rapports que nous vous avions demand6,
& l'poque, ce d~couvert.
" Devant votre observation, il n'y a rien &dire si ce n'est de
vous autoriser L consid~rer comme s6curit6 collat~rale une
partie des ' bonds' que vous avez & ma maison, en cas de
d(couvert.
"Votre d6vou6,

0. OAVARoo."

And which is translated by Mr. Wells as follows:
"NEw ORLEANS, 15 Febr'uary,1873.
"Messrs. F. SCHUcHARDT & SONS, New York:
"Dear Sirs: In your letter of 11th inst. you say ' the credit
of $100 I M d djcouvert was predicated upon the deposit of
New Orleans city bonds, and on their- withdrawal we, of
course, supposed the agreement cancelled.'

REYNES v. DUMONT.,
Statement of the Case.

"You are aware that exchange is purchased at New Orleans
by making advances until the delivery of the drafts, and it
was for the purpose of giving activity to our correspondence
that we at the time requested this deouviert.
"In the face of your observation there is nothing to say except to authorize you to consider a part of my firm's bonds
which you have as collateral security in case of (unsecured uncovered) balance of account.
"Yours truly,

C. OAv~ARoC."

Schuchardt & Sons replied:
"NEw YoRK, Feb. 27, 1873.
"To the cashier of the New Orleans Banking Association,
New Orleans:
"In reply to your worthy president's letter of the 15th inst.,
we take pleasure in authorizing you, in accordance with the
terms therein stated, to value on us 'd dhcouvert' for a sum
not exceeding as maximum $100,000 (one hundred thousand
dollars) against exchange purchases.
F. SCHUOHARDT & SoNs."
In the summer of 1873, Cavaroc, Jr., had two interviews
with Wells, in New York, on his way to and from Europe, at
which nothing was said about these bonds "outside of a possible remark, to be positive, that nothing had happened to our
trust in their hands," but the subject of the amount of exchange Schuchardt & Sons would be willing to negotiate
for the firm or the bank was mentioned, an agreement arrived
at to limit certain lines of credit, and a memorandum drawn
up by Wells, in French, or partly in French and partly in
English, as follows:
"Not more than £10 I X per week on Hambro.
"
"
" fr. 200 1 M on first bankers of Paris.
"As much business paper (in French, efets de commerce) as
shall be desired, we reserving the right (as much in the interest of the bank as in our own) to limit the amounts on any
one house.
"When the bank sends the drafts of the bank on third par-

OCTOBER TERITI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

ties (Havre, Bordeaux, Marseilles, etc., etc.) it must put in the
hands of Messrs. 0. 0. & Son, in trust, a deposit of securities,
there to remain until the acceptance or the payment, if we
deem proper to await the payment.
"Seignouret's line, fr. 500 1 M (for bank and 0. 0. & Son)."
This must have been, Wells says, the latter part of August
or the early part of September, 1873, and this is confirmed by
the evidence of Cavaroc, Jr., that he arrived in New Orleans
"the first part of September."
Mr. Wells thinks he received a letter from Mr. Cavaroc
dated on or about September 15, and that he answered under
date of September 19, 1873, and Cavaroc produces a letter, as
follows:
"NEw Tonx, &pt.19, 1873.
MR. OAvAxoo:
"I have sufficiently explained to you on your last visit here,
that we should prefer receiving from the bank only such paper
as it should have purchased, and, after mature consideration
and consultation with Mr. Schuchardt, who has returned some
days since, we have determined to request the bank to limit
its exchange business with us to the forwarding of such drafts
made by third parties as it shall deem proper to purchase, and
we beg you so to inform the bank. . . . We hope that
the bank shall give great activity to its operations on the
above basis, and, in order to assist it as much as possible, we
still authorize it to draw against purchases of exchange, and
in advance of the remittances, to the extent of $100,000, on
the conditions specified in the letter of Mr. Cavaroc of 15th
February last.
"Believe me, my dear sir and friend, yours most devotedly,

"My D

" LAwRENCE WELLS.

"Money was loaned until to-morrow @ 1 per cent; and
you will readily understand that it is no fun to be out of
money, as we are now. The system which I propose to you
above will in a measure remedy this, because we can draw as
soon as we shall re~eive your telegram advising purchases."
An extract from the minute-book of the bank, September
20, 1873, reads as follows:

REYKES v. DU0NIOT.
Statement of the Case.
"CALLED

MEETING.

"NEW ORLEANS NAT. BANxtNG Ass'N,
" NEW ORLEANS,

Sept. 20th, 1873.

"Present: C. Cavaroc, Pres't.; A. Tertrou, J. Aldige, John
Rocchi, H. A. Mouton, P. S. Wiltz, L. Haas, Jr.
"The president stated that the object of the meeting was to
inform the board of the unpleasant state of affairs in general,
and particularly of the panic then prevailing in New York.
"The suspension of Jay Cooke & Co., which was already
announced, and which no doubt would be followed by many
others, would surely tend to increase the present .uneasiness
and render our money market still more stringent. He would
therefore ask the board to suggest or adopt such measures as
in their judgment they would think expedient to avert the
impending crisis; whereupon it was unanimously ,"Resolved, That all precautionary measures to be taken be
left entirely to the discretion of the president, the board
hereby ratifying all that may be done by him. It is further 11Resolved, That with a view of securing the president against
any eventual loss of the 232 7 per cent city of New Orleans
bonds belonging to the firm of C. Cavaroc & Son, and actually
pledged to F. Schuchardt & Sons, agents of the bank at New
York, as collateral security for the payment of all foreign
exchange bills sent them for negotiation and by them indorsed, that he be, and is hereby, authorized to select as guarantee from the portfolio of the bank such papers as he may
think proper, to the extent of ($100,000) one hundred thousand dollars.
"On motion it is further".Resolved, That the board hereby tender their thanks for
the aid he is individually lending by leaving undisturbed a
large cash balance, ($80,000) eighty thousand dollars, standing
to the credit of C. Cavaroc & Son on the books of the bank.
"1Andthe board adjourned."
October 4, 1873, the bank and Cavaroc & Son failed.
N. W. Casey was appointed receiver of the bank, and Franois Laborde and Edward H. Reynes, assignees of Cavaroc &

OCTOBER TERM,, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Son. Schuchardt & Sons were adjudicated bankrupts February 19,11876, and Charles M. Fry was appointed their trustee
in bankruptcy.
The balance due from the New Orleans Bank to Schuchardt
& Sons on October 4, 1873, the date of the failure, adding
$3.20 interest, from October 1, was $4125.12, which was increased, by charging back protested drafts or acceptances and
some minor items, to $197,501.35, as per the following account:
Dn.
N. IV. Casey, Receiver New OrleansNat'l Banking Assoc.
Charles M. Fry, trustee.
1873.
$4121 92
.................
Oct'r 1. To balance ........
.....
3 20
4. " days interest on $4121.92, C 7 per cent ..
...
353 86
7. " unpaid rem. on Nat'l. Park Bank ..........
2 06
9. " protest charges on rem. on Phila., $156.75 . . ..
14. "
"
"
100 ..
.....
206
.....
4 12
24.
"
"
$"230.47 & $130 ..
28. " protested drafts on G. Honorat & Co.
f'cs 150,000
at Marseilles .........
10 per cent damages . . . .
15,000

Nov'r 17.

"

Dec'r 29.

"

f'cs 165,000-4871 33,846 15
.12,500
00
unpaid acceptances of S. Frank & Co........
1 31
protest charges on same .....
..........
protested drafts on Seignouret Fr~res
& Co., Bordeaux, p'ble per Paris f'cs 250,000
.
25,000
10 per cent damages .....
56,410 26

f'cs 275,000 - 487
1874.
Jan'y 12.

"

protested drafts on A. Dutfoy
f'es 200,000
& Co. at Paris .......
155,000
35,000
10,000
10 per cent damages . . . . 40,000

29 Nov'r, 73.
10 Dec.,
13 "
19 "

f'cs 440,000 - 487J

.

.

90,256 41
$197,501 35

From this debt, certain amounts collected being deducted, a
balance of $180,624.58 was left, making, with $14,691.05 due
on gold account, a total indebtedness from the bank to Schu-

EREYNES v. DU

ONT.

Statement of the Case.

chardt & Sons of $195,315.63, for which a certificate was issued
by the receiver April 8, 1879.
Schuchardt's cashier testified:
"The drafts on Dutfoy, Seignouret and Honorat were foreign exchange bills known as ' clean '- that is, unaccompanied
by documents- drawn by the iNew Orleans Banking Association on those parties. The one on the National Park Bank
was drawn by the New Orleans Natiopal Banking Association
to settle a collection made. The bills of exchange that figure
up on the gold account were mainly cotton shippers' exchange,
accompanied by bills of lading."
The debit balance of the bank on the gold account, October
1st, 1873, was $68,231.17, afterwards reduced to $14,691.05.
It appears from the evidence of Casey that Schuchardt &
Sons, or Fry their assignee, claimed about $38,000 in the Union
Bank of London belonging to the New Orleans Bank, and
other funds in the hands of Dutfoy & Co. of Paris, amounting
to forty thousand francs, and that at the time of the failure
of the bank "certain assets belonging to the bank were in the
hands of parties claiming to hold them as collateral security
for the indorsement of certain bills of exchange which had
been negotiated through Schuchardt & Sons, said bills being
drawn by the bank upon Seignouret Fr~res of Bordeaux,
France. Suit was brought for the recovery of these assets,
which resulted in my favor, as will appear by the decision of
the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of Casey,
Receiveor, v. . Schuchardt& Sons, reported in 6 Otto, [96 U. S.]
p. 494."
In that case, Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion of
the court, said:
"Schuchardt & Sons were bankers, in New York, through
whom the New Orleans National Banking Association was in
the habit of drawing on foreign houses, and who indorsed and
disposed of the drafts, or transmitted them for collection, and
made advances thereon. They were thus in the habit of
indorsing and advancing on bills drawn by the bank on Seignouret Fr~res, of Bordeaux. In August and September they
became uneasy, and required security; and it was agreed

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

between them and the bank that they would receive and
indorse drafts on Seignouret Fr~res, and accept the drafts of
the bank on themselves to a certain limited amount, upon being
secured by a pledge of commercial securities, to be deposited
in the hands of Charles Cavaroc & Son. In pursuance of this
arrangement, on the 17th of September, the bank transmitted
to Schuchardt & Sons its drafts on Seignouret Fr~res to the
amount of 250,000 francs, and, at the same time, drew on
Schuchardt & Sons against said drafts for the sum of $50,000.
On the same day, or the day following, securities of the bank
to the amount of .$60,000 were selected by the note clerk, by
direction of Charles Cavaroc, president of the bank, put into
an envelope indorsed with the name of Schuchardt & Sons,
and handed to Cavaroc, who handed them to the cashier; and
thereafter they were treated in precisely the same manner as
the securities which were selected for the Credit M obilier and
the Park Bank, as shown in the cases which have just been
decided."
October 9, 1873, Cavaroc & Son telegraphed Schuchardt &
Sons:
"Nw ORLEANS, Oct. 9, 1873.

"F. ScHUc

_HAR
& SoNs, New York:

"Please deliver to L. Monrose two hundred and thirty bonds,
one thousand dollars each, city of New Orleans seven per cent,
held in trust for us.
"C. CAvARoC & SoN."

Monrose replied:
"NEw YoR-K,

Oct. 9, 1873.

"C. CAVAROc & SON, New Orleans:

"Schuchardt refuses delivering; says you pledged as security
for bank.

"LMomosig."

And Schuchardt & Sons telegraphed:
"NEw YoRK, Oct. 9th, 1873.
"C. CAvAoc & SON, New Orleans:

"According to your written authority we hold New Orleans
city bonds as collateral eourity against Bank of New Orleans.

REY1NES v. DUIONT.
Statement of the Case.

We insist on your delivering to Reynes the bills receivable
held by you in trust. Answer; also reply about bill lading
per Queenstown.
"IF.

SCHU0HARDT & SONS."

October 11, Cavaroc & Son wrote Schuchardt & Sons:
"Mess. F.

" NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 11, 1873.
New York:

SCHUCHArDT & SoNs,

"Gentlemen: ' According to your written authority we hold
New Orleans city bonds as collateral security against Bank of
New Orleans.'
"By this phrase you seem to imply that our 232 bonds ought
to serve as a guarantee to you for the reimbursement of all
kinds of debts and of all sums due by the bank.
"In response we refer you to the letter of our senior partner,
0. Cavaroc, February 15th last, which you yourselves invoke
as the authority on which you base your rights ('according to
your written authority ').
"Our authority is contained in the following terms: 'In
your letter of the 11th inst. you say: "The credit of $100,000
' dicouvert was predicated upon the deposit of New Orleans
city bonds, and on their withdrawal we, of course, supposed
the agreement cancelled." You know that exchange at New
Orleans is purchased by making advances until such tinme as
the drafts are delivered, and it was with a view of making
our mutual transactions more active that we asked this credit
djouvert at the time. In view of your remark, I have
nothing to say except to authorize you to consider a portion
of the bonds belonging to my firm, which you have in Your
possession, as collateral security in case you should not be
covered.'
"You see that according to the authority which you invoke
you have no right to cover yourself by means of these bonds,
except those uncovered sums for which you might not have
received the paper against which they were drawn at the
moment of the demand for the restitution of the bonds.
"According to the books of the bank, which correspond
VOL. cxxx--24

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

within a few 6ents with the account current rendered by you
under date of Oct. 1st, it appears that all the drafts which the
bank has made on y3ou up to this day have been properly covered, and that is all we guaranteed by the deposit of our bonds.
"These bonds are, then,' at this moment released, and we
renew the order that you deliver them to IL. iMonrose, who is
requested to receive them.
"Yours, etc.,
0. CAvAROC & SoN."
The following definitions of "a'd~couvert," with translations,
were furnished by counsel for Dumont & Co.:
" Credit t d~couvert : Avancesfaites par acceptationsoupar
dbours de caisse, san" 6tre garariespar connaissements des
marchandises consigne'es ou des contre-valeurs.

. "Larousse, Grand Dictionnaire Universel.
"Translation. Advances made by acceptances or cash disbursements, which (advances) are not covered by bills of lading,
consigned goods or other securities."
So Littr6, Dictionnaire 'de la langue frangaise:
,'-A djcouvert. Terme de commerce: Jtre i dicouvert, tre

en avance, v'avoir auoune gardntie des avances.faies. (X

d6couvert, commercial expression. To be '5, dcouvert' is to
be in advance, to have no guaranty of the advances made.)"
So in the Dictionnaire de lAcadmie:
"A. djcouvert. bre a'dkcouvert, signifie en terme de commerce, n'avoir aucun gage, 'aucune garantie par sa cr~ance.'
(To be (idjcouvert signifies to have no pledge, no security, for
one's claim.)"
So, too, Bescherelle, Dictionnaire National:
tire t djecouvert: il'avoir aucun gage de sa
"Commerce.
cr6ance. (Commerce; to be 'A d~couvert :'to have no security

or pledge for one's claim.)"
Mr. Wells gives this as from the French Dictionary of
A. Spiers, 19th ed., Bamard Bandry & Co. 12 IRue Bonaparte,
Paris, 1866:
".Djeouvert, n. m. I (com.) (of accounts), uncovered balance."
Cavaroc, Senior, testifies:
"There is a usage and meaning. The words 'a d6Mcouvert'

REYNES v. DIT-IONT.

371

Statement of the Case.

we use more frequently in French than ' credit.' If I write in
French to ask an open credit to a banker I will merely ask
him: 'Let me draw on you a dicouvert for one or two hundred thousand dollars.' If I say to the banker, ' I will cover
you with exchange to that amount,' as soon as I cover to that
amount it is finished. I don't owe a cent to that amount, 1i
djcouvert is closed, and I have a right to go on again. It is
a revolving credit. For instance, with Schuchardt, suppose I
draw to-day $100,000 on Schuchardt and it was t d~couvert,
and the next morning or day after I sent to Schuchardt
$100,000 of exchange bought from different houses here, my
d dicouvert is finished - it is closed. As soon as I have remitted exchange for the $100,000 draft of the day preceding
the d djouvert is closed. Schuchardt is covered then. On
the same day or next morning I have a right to draw $100,000
and cover again. As soon as I have remitted $100,000 exchange I have a right to draw again. Therefore, when the
oank remitted exchange to cover what the bank had drawn
under that credit, t d~couvert, the guarantee made by me, C.
Cavaroc, ceased, and the right to hold these bonds ceased under
that guarantee.

.

.

.

I desire to say, in explanation of

the 'd dicouvert' spoken of in my testimony, that it had no
relation to guarantee and to payment of the exchange remitted by the bank, nor of the solvency of the drawers or
indorsers or acceptors, but merely embraced remittance of
exchange by the bank. This is the signification of the words
' dcouvert' here and in France, and in the letters sent and
received by me, extracts of which are annexed, the words are
so understood."
The balance of account claimed by Schcuhardt & Sons as
due from Cavaroc & Son, January 12th, 1874, was $7454.22,
to which certain costs, disbursements and counsel fees, and
a payment in settlement of a judgment on a $20,000 draft
drawn on them by Cavaroc & Son, were added, with interest,
making the amount December 19, 1882, some $25,715.22. The
amount proved up by Schuchardt & Sons against the New
Orleans Bank was $195,315.63, as has been stated. Upon
this amount dividends bad been paid before final decree to
the amount of $117,189.38.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Fry.

The Circuit Court held that the bonds were pledged to
secure Schuchardt & Sons for any overdrafts of the bank which
might from time to time arise, to the extent of $100,000, and
that Schuchardt & Sons were entitled to hold the bonds subject to the pledge to the bank, as security for the indebtedness
of Cavaroc & Son, by virtue of a banker's lien, 13 Fed. IRep.
423; and, further, that Cavaroc & Son had pledged the bonds
to secure the whole indebtedness of the bank to Sehuchardt &
Sons, with a limitation on the extent of the liability, and had
not pledged them to secure a limited part of the indebtedness,
and that therefore the dividends were not to be applied ratably,
but the bonds could only receive the benefit of any receipts
from dividends after the indebtedness had been paid down to
$100,000, 14: Fed. Rep. 293.
The original bill was ordered dismissed by the court sua
sponte on the ground of want of jurisdiction in equity, Dumont
v. Fry, 12 Fed. Rep. 21, but retained upon amendment. No
objection on this ground appears to have been raised by defendants until upon hearing here. As to allowance of interest, see 18 Fed. Rep. 578.
.Xr. John E. Parsons,for Reynes, cited: NSational Bank v.
I.nsurance Co., 104 U. S. 54, 71; Duncan v. Brennan, 83 N. Y.
487; Veponset Bank v. Leland, 5 Met. 259; Vanderzee v.
Willis, 3 13ro. Oh. 21; Branda5 v. Barnett, 3 C. B. 519; S. C.
6 Man. & Gr. 630; S. C. 12 Cl. & Fin. 787; Grant v. Taylor,
35 N. Y. Super. Ct. 338; S. C. 52 N. Y. 627; Wyckoff v.
Anthony, 9 Daly, 417; Zelle v. German &c. Inst., 4 Missouri
App. 401; Story Eq. Jur., § 499; Bardwell v. Lydall, 7 Bing.
489; S. C. 5 Moore & Payne, 327; Hobson v. Bass, 6 Oh. App.
792; Raikes v. Todd, 8 Ad. & El. 84(;; Ellis v. Emanuel,
L. R. 1 Ex. 157; Gee v. Pack, 9 Law Times (N. S.) 290;
Ward v. Todd, 103 U. S. 327; Town qf 1entz v. Cook,
108 N. Y. 504; Boyce v. Grundy, 3 Pet. 210; Miller v. Stewart,
9 Wheat. 680.
-Mr.James C. Carter for Fry.
I. The defendant and appellee Fry, as trustee in bankruptcy for Schuchardt & Sons, had a lien upon the bonds in

REYNES v. DUMONT.
Argument for Fry.

question for the payment of the sum of $25,715.22, being the
balance due that firm on the account between it and 0. Cavaroc & Son, as adjudged by the decree of the court below.
This lien is what is ordinarily known as a banker's lien.
By long established law a banker has a lien upon all funds
and securities in his possession for the payment of a balance
due to him on his general account with a customer, unless it
appear that the funds or securities are held by him for a purpose inconsistent -with such lien. Davis v. Bowsher, 5 T. R.
488; Bolland v. Bygrave, Ry. & Mood. 273; BJrandai5v. Barnett, 12 01. & Fin. 787; Jones v. Peppe'rcorne, 1 Johns. V. C.
430; In re European Bank, L. R. 8 Ch. 41; In 'e Gen. Prov.
Ass. Co., L. R. 14 Eq. 507.
All liens, except statutory liens, are created by contract;
but the contract may be, and perhaps in most cases is, an implied one. The lien referred to is implied from the nature of
the transactions between a banker and his customer, the usual
relations between those parties, and the circumstance that
such lien is, whenever occasion arises, asserted and enjoyed by
the banker without objection from the customer.
A banker is one who deals in money, and carries on his business at some financial centre. Merchants require the aid of a
person who will keep their money in safety while it is awaiting employment, and perhaps pay an interest on it; or lend
money to them when needed, or procure loans from others.
The banker serves all these purposes. He is the treasurer and
the financial agent of his customer.
While the banker may have several accounts with his customer, the general or drawing account relates solely to deposits
of money on one side, and drafts of money on the other, or
their equivalents. Whenever in the course of the transactions, of whatever character, a debt becomes due to the customer, the amount is passed to his credit in this general
account; and whenever, on the other hand, a debt becomes
due from him it is passed to his debit in the same account.
The balance of that account represents a present debt due and
owing to the customer or the banker, as the case may be.
The conditions of the business, the frequent occasions which

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Fry.

the customer has to suddenly call for money, the possibility
that discounted bills or notes will be returned unpaid, the
necessity of maintaining confidence and credit with the
banker so that he may not hesitate in furnishing discounts or
paying an occasional over-draft, all lead to the common practice on the part of customers of. keeping securities of various
kinds with their bankers, which may serve any purpose which
the exigencies of business may require. Collateral which has
been-furnished for loans or discounts is allowed to remain
after the loans have been paid; uncollected paper, bonds,
stocks and other securities, and sometimes other valuables are
left in the possession of the banker.
Inasmuch as in the vast majority of cases such securities
and property of the customer found in the possession of the
.banker have been delivered to or left with him for no other
purpose than to secure him generally against loss -the law
justly assumes in all cases that this is the purpose for which
they have been so delivered or left. At the same time it recognizes the fact that the purpose may have been different; and
hence the rule defines the banker's lien as a lien on all securities in his possession for the payment of the balance of his
account, unless it appear that the securities were deposited or
left for a purpose inconsistent with such lien. It should be
clearly understood that this lien is not one for debts and liabilities generally, but only for the balance of the general or
drawing account.
These considerations leave no doubt respecting the existence
of this lien upon the securities in the hands of the appellee
Fry. The relations between his assignors, Schuchardt &
Sons, and Cavaroc & Son, were a typical instance of those
usually existing between banker and customer. It was open
to the complainants, and to the assignees of Cavaroc & Son, to
prove that the bonds were held by Schuchardt & Sons for a
purpose or under a contract inconsistent with the alleged lien.
An attempt in this direction was made, but it was quite unsuccessful.
It would be to no purpose for the appellants to urge that a
demand was made upon Schuchardt & Sons at the time of the

REYNES v. DUIMONT.
Argument for Fry.

bankruptcy and that at that time there was no adverse balance
against Cavaroc & Son, and that Schuchardt & Sons could not
retain the bonds as security for a debt not then matured. This
suggestion overlooks the material circumstance of the intervening bankruptcy. In the view of a court of equity the occurrence of insolvency which made it impossible that the credit
side of the account with Cavaroc & Son should be improved,
is a sufficient reason for imposing a stoppage at that point and
declaring that the real balance is that which it munst inevitably
turn out to be.
Different views have been expressed by courts as to whether
a party owing a .debt presently due to an insolvent could set
of against it, even in equity, a debt not yet due from the insolvent to him. But surely there would seem to be no just
ground for doubt that in such cases the party to whom the
debt is not due so that it can be set off is entitled to hold as a
security where his debtor is insolvent what he might hold as
security if the debt were due. 1 Jones on Liens, § 246; Ford
v. Thornton, 3 Leigh, 695; Fourth N.'at. Bank v. City Nat.
Bank, 68 Illinois, 398; Rothschild v. Mack, 42 Hun, 72; 2
Story Eq. Jur., §§ 1431-1444.
II. But Schuchardt & Sons had a direct lien upon the bonds
in question to secure the new liabilities incurred by them for
Cavaroc & Son, and which, not matured at the time of the
bankruptcy of the latter, created subsequently, when mature,
the adverse balance of account. Schuchardt and Sons had
incurred these heavy liabilities with no security whatever,
unless these bonds were such, beyond the personal credit of
Cavaroc & Son. The question therefore is, was it or not the
understanding between Caravoc & Son and Schuchardt & Sons
that for any advances of money which the latter might make
to the former, and liabilities incurred in the negotiation of
drafts not drawn against merchandise, the bonds in question
were to stand as security. Taking into consideration the facts
already noticed, this question answers itself. Such must have
been the understanding.
1 There are two general forms of financial transactions which
are common between a banker and his customers, both of

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
'Argument for Fry.

which are illustrated by the dealings between Schuchardt &
Sons and Cavaroc & Son, and also between the former and
the National Banking Association. The one consists in the
receipt of financial paper, notes, bills, &c., for collection, discount or negotiation, and results in a legitimate credit to the
customer of the amount advanced in anticipation of the collections, or of the amount of the proceeds of an actual discount or sale. For this form of business no other security is
required than the paper received.
The other form consists of drafts unaccompaniedby any such
securities, and without any balance in favor of the customer
arising out of prior transactions. Drafts of this latter character are of course not legitimate, unless in consequence of some
agreement giving permission so to draw, and such agreement
is not given without security that the sums paid out upon such
drafts will be repaid. If securities are lodged with the banker
to secure him for such advances the lien acquired is something
more than the ordinary' banker's lien for his balance.
Wp shall presently see, in the discussion of the lien for the
debt due from the National Banking Association, that these
extraordinarydrafts unaccompanied with financial paper qualifying them, and without a balance to draw against, are discredited as drawings "d djcouvert," the substance of the
meaning of which phrase is a drawing of money when there
is no balance to draw against. Such a drawing to the extent
of $100,000 by the National Banking Association was authorized upon the special agreement that the bonds should stand
as collateral security. There are quite sufficient grounds for
the implication that there was a like agreement, although the
amount for which the drawing should be permitted is not indicated, in relation to drafts of this character by Cavaroc & Son.
If, therefore, the ultimate debt to Schuchardt & Sons was
created by drafts drawn upon the latter of the a' djcouvert
character above described, the bonds would stand as security
for it tnutil it was finallypaid. The subsequent transmission
of foreign bills subsequently dishonored would not pay it and
release the security; even if Schuchardt & Sons had negotiAted
the bills, they would be obliged, having indorsed them, to take

REYIES v. DUMONT.
Argument for Fry.

them up. But if the debt was created by naked drafts drawn
upon other prties by Cavaroc & Son, and cashed by way of
discount or otherwise by Schuchardt & Sons, the substance of
the transaction would still be the making of a loan to Cavaroc
& Son upon the security of the bonds.
III. The questions most seriously contested in the court
below were those relating to the further lien asserted by the
defendant Fry, as assignee, upon the same bonds for the debt
due to Schuchardt & Sons from the New Orleans National
Banking Association and the extent or magnitude of it. The
facts proved clearly establish the existence of the lien.
That it was the intention and agreement of Cavaroc & Son
to pledge the bonds to secure some obligation of the Banking
Association to Schuchardt & Sons is not questioned. The
written documents are conclusive upon that point.
To arrive at a just understanding of the real contract of
hypothecation, the correspondence which created it should be
read in the light of the business and circumstances out of which
it arose. It will then clearly appear that the pledge was made
to secure to Schuchardt & Sons the payment of any balance of
account which might arise against the Banking Association in
consequence of the payment of drafts drawn by it upon the
former when it had no right to draw.
The precise terms of the pledge are stated in the letter of
Cavaroc, Sen., of February 15th, 1873, and by this the bonds
are to be held as collateral security "en cas de dicouvert," and
the object declared by the correspondence, to gain which the
pledge was made, was to obtain for the Banking Association
the privilege of drawing "a dcouvert." The literal meaning
of these expressions shows that the real intent of the pledge
was to secure the payment by the Banking Association of any
adverse balance of accounts created by its overdrafts; that is,
by drawing when it had no balance to draw against. The
phrase "d d~couv.ert" is, according to the best authorities, a
commercial one used in relation to accounts, and means an
•overdrawA account. To draw, therefore, "d dgcouvert," which
was the privilege sought and gained by the pledge, is to draw
when there is no balance to draw against. The substantive

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Fry.

"dicouvert" means an uncovered balance of account, which is,
of course, an adverse balance of account. There seems to be
no support for the effort of the appellants to limit a drawing
"d dicouvert" to the case of a draft unaccompanied by a
merchandise bill. If the Banking Association should draw
such a draft, and yet had at the time a balance in its favor
equal to the amount of the draft the drawing would surely
not be "a dcouvet ;" but a draft drawn without an existing
balance, and which would therefore be "d dicouvert" considered by itself, would, if accompanied by a merchandise bill,
cease to be "d dicouvert." But this would be for the reason
that the bill would instantly create a balance in favor of the
:Banking Association on the general account.
The conclusion is that the pledge was designed to secure the
payment of any balxance of account created by drafts drawn
by the Banking Association when it had no balance to draw
against; in other words, overdrafts. This produced the "ca s
de dicouvert" against which the pledge was in terms made by
Cavaroc's letter of February 15th, 1873.
IV. The total debt due from the Nqational Banking Association. to Schuchardt and Gebbardt, as proved in bankruptcy,
amounted to $195,315.63, and upon this the appellant Fry, as
assignee of that firm, received dividends amounting to 55 per
cent from the bankrupt estate. It was insisted upon by the
appellants that these dividends should have been apportioned,
and a ratable part applied to diminish the debt secured by the
pledge. The decree of the court below overruling this claim,
and declaring the bonds subject to a lien for the payment of
the residue of the debt remaining unpaid after the application
of the entire amount of the dividends, was correct.
Subrogation, for that is the substance of the demand which
is made by the appellants, is an equity to which the surety is
entitled when he pays the debt for which he became surety.
And, necessarily, in all cases where the right of subrogation
would arise if the surety had first paid the debt, and the
creditor had afterwards received moneys on account of it
from the debtor, the moneys, if received by the creditor before
payment by the surety, would go in exoneration of the latter.

REYNNES

v. DUMONT.

Argument for Fry.

The true description of the debt for which the bonds were
pledged is that part of the indebtedness of the Banking Association.created by its overdrafts which it might not pay. In
other words, as the learned judge in the court below described
it, the unpaid balance. In case the bonds should pay the whole
of this unpaid balance, then, indeed, and not until then, would
Cavaroc & Son be entitled to be subrogated to Schuchardt &
Sons, and to receive any further dividends which might come
from the bankrupt estate. Such an engagement, by its very
nature, supposes the right of the creditor to receive voluntary
payments from the debtor without any exoneration of the
surety, and enforced payments as well, for the guaranty
applies only to the balance after such payments have credited.
There are various modes in which a surety may limit the
extent of his liability. Sometimes what the person asked to
give credit may desire is security against ultimate loss; and
the surety may be willing to give him such security. If the
dealings are likely to involve a large and indefinite liability,
prudence dictates to the surety precaution, and he exercises
this by limiting his liability, leaving the creditor to allow
whatever indebtedness to arise he pleases. Both know that
the surety can be called upon only for the specified amount,
and both also know that the surety can claim nothing from
the debtor's estate until the creditor is fully paid.
This latter form of engagement was evidently what the
parties intended. The Banking Association wanted to draw
d dgcouvert, that is, to overdraw. Schuchardt & Sons proposed to give it the right to do so, provided security was
given to them against ultimate loss. Cavaroc & Son were
willing to secure them against such loss, but not to subject
themselves to hazard beyond the sum of $100,000.
The authorities upon the question now under discussion are
principally English. They proceed, it is believed, upon a full
recognition of the above views. The following are the principal: Exparte Pushforth, 10 Ves. 409; Wright v. 3forley, 11
Yes. 12; Ellis v. Emanuel, L. R. 1 Ex. 157; Ex _parte Rope,
3 M. DeG. & G. 720; iIMidland Banking Co. y. Chambers, 38
L. J. Ch. 478.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Citations for Fry.

Xr. FredericR. Coudert (with whom was -Mr. Edgar A.
HYut ch's on the brief) for Dumont. On the question of the
meaning of the term a' dicouvert, Mr. Coudert said:
Schuchardt & Sons, by their calling, were presumably judges
of the paper in which they were dealing, and considered themselves, as their intention and state of mind is shown by the
papers, covered when they received the remittances of drafts.
Until drafts were remitted they were a d&couvert; that is, uncovered; the moment the drafts were received they ceased to
be a dico uvert, and were covered.
Even if solvent firms afterward became insolvent, this could
not change the character of the paper at the time, so far as
the judgment of the parties was concerned. Schuchardt was
as fully covered when he received the business paper which he
had agreed to receive as though he had received any other
form of merchandise or security.
Ji'. Coudert then cited "from the most approved lexicographers of France" the several definitions of "a' dicouvert,"
which are found in the statement, ante, 370, and said:
In the light of these concurring definitions, especially of the
first cited (Larousset Grand Dictionnaire Universel), is it not
plain that Schuchardt & Sons were a decouvert only so long as
they failed to receive the drafts upon the faith or the promise of
which they made the advances? Surely they were secured for
these advances, which were in fact not cash but simply acceptances, the moment the bills were sent them, which they had
agreed to receive, to discount and to collect.
.Mr. Coudert also cited Grant v. Taylor, 35 Superior Court
(N. Y.) 338 ; S. C. 52 N. Y. 627 ; Petrie v. -Myers, 54:How. Pr.
(N. Y.) 513; Duncan v. Brennan, 83 N. Y. 487 ; lVyckof v.
Anthony, 9 Daly, 417; Biebingerv. Continental Bank, 99 U. S.
'e Breslin, 45 Hun, 210.
143 ;
.Mr. John -M. Bowers, for Fry, cited: Bank of -Metropolisv.
IV . Bank, 1 How. 234; Falkland v. St. -Nicholas B'k, 84
N. Y. 145; Bryce v. Brooks, 26 Wend. 367; -app v. Alvord,
10 Paige, 205; S. C. 40 Am. Dec. 241; .Myer v. Jacobs, 1
Daly (N. Y.) 32; .AXagle v. McFeeters, 97 N. Y. 196; Bell v.

REYNEA v. DUA1ONT.
Opinion of the Court.

Bruen, 1 How. 169; French v. Carhart,1 N. Y. 96; Waldron
v. Willard, 17 N. Y. 466 ; White's Bank v. Alyles, 73 N. Y.
335; Coleman v. Beach, 97 N. Y. 545; Barney v. Worthington,
37 N. Y. 112; Hamilton v. 'Fan Rensselaer,43 N. Y. 244, 245;
Douglass v. Reynolds, 7 Pet. 113; Lanusse v. Barker,3 Wheat.
101, 148 (note); Lee v. Dick, 10 Pet. 482; Afauran v. Bullus,
16 Pet. 528; .2Toonanv. Bradley, 9 Wall. 394; Hooper v. Wells,
Fargo & (Jo., 27 Cal. 11; S. C. 85 Am. Dec. 211; St. Louis
&c. Railway v. Smuck, 49 Ind. 302; .Xenzell v. Railway Co.,
1 Dillon, 531; Edsall v. Camden &c. Railroad Co., 50 N. Y.
661; First .National Bank v. Wood, 71 N. Y. 405; .Etna
Life Insurance Co. v. Middleport, 124: U. S. 534; Foot v.
Brown, 2 McLean, 369; Williams v. Sherman, 7 Wend. 109;
Renns. Glass Factory v. Reid, 5 Cowen, 587; S. C. 3 Cowen,
393; Jarvis v. Rogers, 13 Mass. 105; Jarvis v. Rogers, 15
Mass. 389; Brainard v. Jones, 18 N. Y. 35; Schroefpell v.
iShaw, 3 N. Y. 446; .[clecknie v. Ward, 58 N. Y. 541;
Clark v. Sickler, 64 N. Y. 231; Farwell v. Importers &c.
.National Bank, 90 N. Y. 483, top page 490; Gordon v.
Lewis, 2 Sumner, 143, 144; Gibson v. Crehore, 5 Pick. 146;
Jenkins v. Eldredge, 3 Story, 325; Hogan v. Stone, 1 Alabama,
496; 8. C. 35 Am. Dec. 39.
R. CHIEF JUsTIcE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Circuit Court held that Cavaroc & Son had pledged the
bonds to Schuchardt & Sons as security for 'any unpaid
balance of account due from the New Orleans Bank, with a
limitation to $100,000 on the amount for which the bonds
should be held liable. The unpaid balance was ultinately
placed at $195,315.63. The larger part of this balance resulted from charging back the drafts on Seignouret Fr~res &
Co., Honorat & Co., and Dutfoy & Co., which amounted, damages included, to over $180,000. The inquiry therefore presents itself, on this branch of the case, whether Schuchardt &
Sons had a lien upon the bonds to secure these drafts in virtue
of an agreement to that effect with Cavaroc & Son.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

When Schuchardt & Sons, on the 9th of October, 1873,
refused to deliver the bonds on the order of Cavaroc & Son,
they placed their refusal upon the ground that. "according to
your written authority we hold New Orleans city bonds as
collateral security against bank of New Orleans," and Wells,
a member of the firm, testifies that the only written authority
was the letter of Cavaroc of February 15, 1873. The letter
thus appealed to as embodying the authority relied on must
be examined in the light of the correspondence of which it
forms so important a part. As early as December, 1871,
Schuchardt & Sons had by letter authorized the bank to draw
upon them "in advance of remittances to the extent of
$100,000, (one hundred thousand dollars,) with the understanding that such drafts are to represent exchange bought and paid
for," and in February, 1873, when the bank asked "are we
still authorized to draw a dtjcouvert, $100,000, (one hundred
thousand dollars,) against purchases of exchange advised by
wire," the answer was, "the credit of $100,000, (one hundred
thousand dollars,) a dcouvert was predicated upon the deposit
of New Orleans city bonds, and, on their withdrawal we, of
course, supposed the agreement cancelled."
This assertion as to the deposit of bonds was denied by the
cashier, and he then referred Schuchardt & Sons to a letter
from the president, and that letter is the one in question.
After quoting from Schuchardt's letter of February 11, their
statement that the one hundred thousand dollar credit was
predicated on the deposit of New Orleans city bonds, Cavaroc
thus proceeds: "You know that exchange at New Orleans is
purchased by making advances until the drafts are delivered,
and it was in order to accelerate our transactions that we requested that credit of you at that time. In view of your suggestion, there is nothing to be said, except to authorize you, in
case you are uncovered, to treat as collateral security a portion
of the bonds in your possession belonging to my firm." ' And
1 ,Vous savez que le change A.New Orleans est achet6 en faisant des
avances jusqu" cc que les traites sojent livr6es et c'est afin d'activer nos
rapport- que nous vous avions demand6 Al'6poque, ce d6couvert.

.REYNES v. DUILONT.
Opinion of the Court.

to this Schuchardt & Sons responded to the bank, that, "in
accordance with the terms therein stated," (i.e., in Cavaroc's
letter,) the bank might value on them "1A dcouvert,' for a
sum not exceeding as maximum $100,000 (one hundred thousand dollars) against exchange purchases." Thus the written
authority relied on was in no respect different from the understanding in the beginning, as shown by the letter of 1871, that
the drafts to be drawn by the bank on the Schuchardts were
"to represent exchange bought and paid for," and the bonds
were to be held under the letters of February, 1873, as collateral to advances by the Schuchardts before remittances of the
exchange. And as late as September 19th, 1873, Wells wrote
that Schuchardt & Sons still authorized the bank "to draw
against purchases of exchange, and in advance of the remittances, to the extent of $100,000, on the conditions specified
in the letter of Mr. Cavaroc of 15th February last."
"Exchange bought and paid for" meant bills drawn against
shipments, and purchased by advances made to the shippers
upon the strength of documents to be furnished by them with
the bills, to repay the advances so made. It was to enable
the bank to make such advances in New Orleans that Schuchardt & Sons on their part advanced to the bank, and, to
assist the bank, Cavaroc & Son were willing to and did pledge
the bonds as collateral, to a maximum of $100,000. The understanding was that the bonds should be held as collateral
while Schuchardt & Sons were uncovered, that is to say, not
covered by the remittance of exchange purchased, the bonds
thus being used to bridge the interval between making the
advances and the receipt of the drafts with bills of lading
attached by Schuchardt & Sons.
The transactions between Schuchardt & Sons and the bank
were very large, reaching, it is true, only about $700,000, during the month of September, but amounting to millions during
the year; in fact, Wells testifies that sometimes the bank sent
over a million in one day."
"Devant votre observation, iln'y a rien Adire si ce n'est de vous autoriser
A consid~rer comme sCcurit collat~rale une partie des ' bonds' que vous
avez &ma maison, en cas de d6couvert."

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinign of the Cour.

The parties were dealing in exchange to tneir mutual profit,
and all that Schuchardt & Sons stipulated for, and all that Cavaroc & Son agreed to, was that the bonds should be held as security while the merchandise was being purchased and shipped,
and drafts against the shipments transmitted to Schuchardt &
Sons in liquidation of their advances.
We do not understand that Schuchardt & Sons were doing
business absolutely without risk, nor that Cavaroc & Son, in
view of the course of business, were regarded as called upon
to guarantee Schuchardt & Sons at all events. The latter
had the drawers, the drawees, the indorsers and the merchandise itself to rely on, and there is nothing in the letters or the
testimony to indicate that, in addition to all this, they demanded, as to such drafts, other security. If a draft had gone
forward with bill of lading attached, and the drawees refused to
receive the consignment and accept the draft, and were otherwise under no obligation to do so, and the proceeds of the
shipment sold for less than the amount of the draft, or if the
acceptors became insolvent and loss was thereby occasioned,
Schuchardt & Sons, though they might, if such was the course
of business, charge back the difference to the bank, could not,
upon this evidence, claim that these bonds were security to
make good a deficiency so created, and, even if they could, no
such deficiency is shown to have occurred.
Upon what basis then can it be held that drafts drawn by
the bank directly on Seignouret Fr~res & Co., Bordeaux,
Honorat & Co., Marseilles, and Dutfoy & Co., Paris, "unaccompanied by documents," were secured by the bonds of
Cavaroc & Son and Dumont & Co. by "written authority."
The drafts on Seignouret Frires & Co. appear to have been
drawn September 17th,. 1873, for, with damages, $56,410.26,
but the dates of the other drafts are not given, and the account
between the bank and Schuchardt & Sons, prior to the first of
October, 1873, is not before us. The drafts on Dutfoy & Co.,
amounting, with damages, to $90,256.41, were protested NTovember 29th, December 10th, 13th and 19th. The drafts on
Honorat & Co. were protested October 28. No evidence is
adduced on behalf of Schuchardt & Sons' trustee in bank-

REYNES v. DUMONT.
Opinion of the Court.

ruptcy as to the length of time on which these drafts were
drawn. We believe we are justified, then, in assuming that it
was after the interview between Gavaroc, Jr., and Wells,.
placed by the latter as transpiring the last of August or first
of September, when it was agreed that the amounts of business paper, that is, according to Wells, "bills of exchange
drawn against shipments," which they would take, Schuchardt
& Sons might limit, and the limitation was directly imposed
of "not more than £10 I Al per week on Ilambro," and
"not more than fr. 200 1 M on first bankers of Paris;" and,
further, that when the bank sent "the drafts of the bank
on third parties (Havre, Bordeaux, Marseilles, etc., etc.) it
must put in the hands of Messrs. 0. C. & Son, in trust, a deposit of securities, there to remain until the acceptance or the
payment, if we deem proper to await the payment." This
was an arrangement made by Schuchardt & Sons and evidenced
by a memorandum prepared, not by Cavaroc, but by Wells.
It was not Cavaroc & Son, acting with reference to the bonds,
who sought this agreement, but Schuchardt & Sons, acting
for their own protection in reference to transactions other than
those with which the bonds were connected. The drafts of the
bank on third parties were not exchange bought and paid for,
nor were drafts drawn by the bank on Schuchardt & Sons
against these bills drawn by it directly on Europe, advances
made by Schuchardt & Sons against "purchases of exchange
advised by telegraph." Schuchardt & Sons could have bad
no expectation of receiving another set of bills drawn against
shipments to repay advances made to the bank on these "clean "
bills already in their hands. They must have relied, as to these
bills, upon the credit of the bank, the indorsers and the drawees, and other securities deposited in the hands of Cavaroc
& Son; and when Schuchardt, who appears to have been out
of town, returned, and it was concluded to limit their operations, Wells writes to Cavaroc that they had "determined to
request the bank to limit its exchange business with us to the
forwarding of such drafts made by third parties as it shall
deem proper to purchase." There is no intimation up to the
19th of September that Schuqwhard.t & Sons regarded the
VOL. cxx-25

OCTOBER TERMT,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

bonds as pledged for anything except the remittance of ex,change created by drafts against shipments. The transactions
in purchasing such exchange, and transactions in the way of
accommodation to the bank, or of the purchase of its own
drafts on' Europe, were kept perfectly distinct, so far as appears. Cavaroc, Jr., testifies that in his interview with Wells,
late in' August or the first of September, when it was agreed
that if the bank sent its own drafts there must be a deposit of
securities to insure their acceptance or payrnent, no agreement
was made, verbal 6r otherwise, in reference to these bonds,
and nothing said about them, other than perhaps a casual remark. Wells does not deny this, although be says he feels
"quite confident they were alluded to." But for a resolution
purporting to have been passed by the directors of the bank
on the 20th of September, there would be absolutely no evidence in this record that the bonds were to be or had ever been'
held as security for drafts by the bank directly. These bonds
did not belong to the bank. They were largely owned by
Dumont & Co. They had never been used except upon a
direct order from Cavaroc & Son. A distinct agreement with
the latter that they should be held for the debts of the bank
must be shown in order to the maintenance of a lien upon
them. The resolution does say that the bank, in order to- secure its president against "any eventual loss" of the bonds
"belonging to the firm of C. Cavaroc & Son, and actually
pledged to F. Schuchardt & Sons, agents of the bank at New
York, as collateral security for the payment of all foreign exchange bills sent them for negotiation, and by them indorsed,"
thereby authorizes him "to select as guarantee from the portfolio of the bank such papers as he may think proper, to the
extent of (100,000) one hundred thousand dollars," and that
statement may be inconsistent with the theory that all the
bonds were pledged for was simply until remittances of exchange actually bought and paid for were made; but when
we consider the circumstances under which Cavaroc was situated, that resolution, under which securities to the amount of
$100,000 were to be put into his hands, which might be iheld
to secure drafts drawn by the bank itself, in accordance with

REYNES v. DUMONT.
Opinion of the Court.

the agreement with Schuchardt & Sons of the last of August
or first of September, does not appear to us to overcome the
written and other evidence as to the actual transaction.
There is no element of estoppel about it, and it is a mere
question whether a resolution of that kind, passed when both
Cavaroc & Son and the bank were on the brink of bankruptcy,
should be taken as evidence of such cogency as to overthrow
all the correspondence and testimony to the contrary. It may
go to the credibility of Cavaroc, it is true. He may have told
one story on the stand under oath, and may have told his
directors another story in the bank, although it does not
appear that he drew the resolution or was consulted as to the
particular language in which it should be couched. The facts
as we hold them to be were, that the bonds had been pledged,
to the extent of $100,000, as collateral to the remittance of
exchange, and that it had been agreed with Schuchardt &
Sons, by Cavaroc, on behalf of the bank, that, in relation to
drafts drawn by the bank directly, other securities should be
put in the hands of Cavaroc & Son to secure such last-named
drafts. Cavaroc therefore needed to have a resolution of the
bank that he might take from its portfolio those additional
securities, and the fact that the language of the resolution is
broader than the terms of the pledge, or that it was inartificially drawn, or that it misrepresented the ownership of the
bonds, does not entitle it to the weight attributed to it on the
argument. As against third parties, the terms of a resolution
of the directors of a national banking association, when the
exigencies of a financial crisis are upon them, in the attempt
to prefer one of the bank's officers, cannot properly be regarded
as decisive upon the question of the facts actually existing in
respect to such third parties in a given case, and Dumont &
Co. and the general creditors of Cavaroc & Son ought not to
be foreclosed by Cavaroc's presence when this resolution was
passed. Besides, it is not inconsistent with the terms of the
resolution, to confine the reference to foreign bills to all exchange actually purchased, in which view the resolution would
simply assert that the pledge was designed to secure, not only
the remittance, but the ultimate payment of such exchange,

OCTOBER TERM, 188&
Opinion of the Court.

but could not be stretched to cover "clean " bills drawn by
the bank itself.
The learned judge of the Circuit Court says: "In short, it,
is evident from the relations of the parties, their course of
business, the correspondence between them, and the construction placed upon the transactions by Cavaroc himself, that the
bonds were pledged to secure Schuchardt & Sons for any overdrafts of the banking association, to the extent of $100,000,
which might from time to time arise. Such overdrafts were
the credit 'dccouvert contemplated by the parties, and conthe unpaid balance of account due from the banking
stitute
association
to Schuchardt & Sons."
The relations of the parties were that both were dealers in
exchange and making money out of it. The course of business was, advances by the bank to shippers, advances by Schuchardt & Sons to the bank to enable it to make those advances
to the shippers, the use of the money by the shippers in the
purchase of merchandise, and the remittance of drafts drawn
against shipments to Schuchardt & Sons, in return for their
advances. The correspondence .between the parties from the
first limited the transactions with which the bonds were concerned to exchange actually bought and paid for. This was
the construction placed upon those transactions by both of
the parties, unless this resolution of the directors of the bank
is to be held as conclusive to the contrary. The indebtedness
of the bank was not the result of losses upon any drafts purchased in the regular course of business, but was the result of
charging back unpaid drafts, which had been drawn by the
bank directly upon parties in Europe, without any accompanying bills of lading. These drafts were discounted by Schuchardt & Sons, apparently in reliance not simply upon the credit
of the bank and the credit of Cavaroc & Son, if they indorsed
such drafts, but upon the deposit of securities, as against them,
in the hands of Cavaroc & Son at New Orleans; and the evidence of Casey shows that Cavaroc did undertake to get and
hold securities for Schuchardt & Sons, as against drafts so
situated: And this explains the telegram of Schuchardt &
Sons to Cavaroc & Son of October 9: "We insist on your
delivering to Reynes the bills receivable held by you in trust."

REYNES

.

DUMAONT.

Opinion of the Court.

This drawing by the bank directly on Europe was either a
recent course of proceeding or it was not. If not, it is clear
that the bonds had no relation to such prior action. If of
recent occurrence, it is equally clear that it was independent
of the regular dealings in exchange, in respect to which the
bonds were held as security to the extent and under the circumstances defined in the correspondence.
As the bonds in large part did not belong to Cavaroc & Son,
it is due to the latter to suppose that they had no intention of
subjecting them to the risks now insisted upon; and the intimacy between Cavaroc & Son and Schuchardt & Sons, and
the fact that the bonds were paid for by drafts on Dunont &
Co., whose acceptances for a considerable part of the cost
were held by Schuchardt & Sons, render the inference a
not unreasonable one, that Schuchardt & Sons knew that
Cavaroc & Son had peculiar reasons for not treating the
bonds with the same freedom as other securities; and this is
confirmed by their levy of an attachment against Dumont &
Co. upon the bonds, as belonging in whole or in part to the
latter.
We do not concur, therefore, in the view that Schuchardt
& Sons had, by special agreement, a lien upon these bonds to
secure the drafts drawn on Seignouret Fr~res & Co., Honorat
& Co., and Dutfoy & Co.
'1
The bonds were, however, pledged to secure the remittance
by the bank of exchange actually bought and paid for. The
letter of February 15th authorizes Schuchardt & Sons to treat
"a portion" of the bonds as such security, to a maximum of
one hundred thousand dollars, but what portion is not defined,
and it is evident that Schuchardt & Sons considered all of
them as so pledged. There is nothing unreasonable in this,
for although the bonds had cost $189,360, yet in the fluctuations of the market all of them might not have represented a
reliable guaranty for more than $100,000.
The answer of Fry sets up that they "were deposited with
the said Frederick Schuchardt & Sons, as security for any
indebtedness or balances of account which at any time might
or could arise in the course of their aforesaid (lealings in their

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

aforesaid character with the said Charles Cavaroc & Son and
the said New Orleans Banking Association."
The decree adjudges that Schuchardt & Sons had a lien
upon the bonds for the balance of the account of Cavaroc &
Son with them, and "also" that they held them, to the extent
of one hundred thousand dollars, "by virtue of a pledge or
hypothecation" to secure the indebtedness of the bank.
The Circuit Court said, (13 Fed. Rep. 428:) "The bonds
having been left by Cavaroc & Son with Schuchardt & Sons,
without any special agreement, except the pledge of a portion
of them for the New Orleans Banking Association, those not
thus pledged are subject to the banker's lien of Schuchardt &
Sons." And again, (18 Fed. Rep. 578:) "The terms of the
pledge were that the bonds then in the possession of the
Schuchardts should be held by them as security for any
advance or overdraft which might ultimately exist in the dealings of the parties, to the extent of $100,000."
But if the bonds were liable by express contract for the
obligations of the bank, could they also be made to respond
to the indebtedness of Cavaroc & Son, in the absence of express agreement, by force of a lien implied from the usage of
the business?
In our judgment, the bonds, being in effect all pledged to
guarantee the iemittance by the bank of exchange purchased,
could not be held by implication as security for the indebtedness of Cavaroc & Son on a balance of account. The specific
pledge withdrew them from the operation of the alleged banker's lien, for it was inconsistent with the presumed intention of
the parties. And, applying the principles upon which such a
lien rests, it is doubtful whether it ever existed in favor of
Schuchardt & Sons. Undoubtedly while "a general lien for
a balance of accounts is founded on custom, and is not favored,
and it requires strong evidence of a settled and uniform usage,
or of a particular mode of dealing between the parties, to
establish it," and "general liens are looked at with jealousy,
because they encroach upon the common law, and disturb the.
equal distribution of the debtor's estate among his creditors,"
(2 Kent Com. *636,) yet a general lien does arise in favor

REYN ES v. DUMIONT,
Opinion of the Court.

of a bank or banker out of contract expressed, or implied from
the usage of the business, in the absence of anything to show
a contrary intention. It does not arise upon securities accidentally in the possession of the bank, or not in its possession in the course of its business as such, nor where the securities are in its hands under circumstances, or where there is
a particular mode of dealing, inconsistent with such general
lien. B andad v. Barnett (Common Pleas), 1 Man. & Gr.
908; S. C. (Exch. Ohamb. In error), 6 Alan. & Gr. 630;' IS. C.
(House of Lords), 3 0. B. 519, 532 and also 12 01. & Fin. 787,
806; Bock v. Gorissen, 2 De G., F. & J. 431, 443. In this latter case the foreign correspondents of a London firm directed
the firm to purchase for them Mexican bonds to a specified
amount at a specified price, and to hold the bonds at the disposal of the correspondents. The London firm made the purchase and wrote the correspondents that they .would, until
farther order, retain the bonds for safe custody, and it was
held that the letters constituted a special contract sufficient to
exclude a general lien on the part of the London firm, if they
would otherwise have been entitled to any.
It was held in &h 'e j.fedewe, 26 Beavan, 588, that where
a customer's security was specifically stated to be "for the
amount which shall or may be found due on the balance of
his account" it could not be held for a subsequent floating
balance, but only for the then existing balance; and in Vanderzee v. Tillis, 3 Bro. Oh. 21, that a security specifically
given for a contemporaneous advance of £1000 by the banker
was not applicable against an independent indebtedness of
£500 afterwards arising upon an ordinary running account.
A bankers' lien, said Mr. Justice Matthews, speaking for the
court in 3Tational Bank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 54, 71,
"ordinarily attaches in favor of the bank upon the securities
and moneys of the customer deposited in the usual course of
business, for advances which are supposed to be made upon
their credit. It attaches to such securities and funds, not only
against the depositor, but against the unknown equities of 4,
others in interest, unless modified or waived by some agreq
ment, express or implied, or by conduct inconsistent with, its
assertion."

OCTOBER TERM, i888.
Opinion of the Court.

In Bank of the Metrapolis v. New England Bank, 1 How.
231, 239, Mr. Chief Justice Taney, in delivering the opinion,
referring to the general principle that a banker who has
advanced money to another has a lien on all paper securities
in his hands for the amount of his general balance, says: "We
do not perceive any difference in principle between an advance
of money and a balance suffered to remain upon the faith of
these mutual dealings. In the one case as well as the other,
credit is given upon the paper deposited or expected to be
transmitted in the usual course of the transactions between
the parties."
"Here, then," said Caton, J., in Russell v. Hadduck, 3 Gilman, 233, 238, "is the true principle upon which this, as well
as all other bankers' liens, must be sustained, if at all. There
must be a credit given upon the credit of the securities, either
in possession or in expectancy." _Fourth NTational Bank v.
City NYational Bank, 68 Illinois, 398.
In Duncan v. Brennan, 83 N. Y. 487, 491, the language of
the court is: "The general lien which bankers hold upon bills,
notes, and other securities deposited with them for a balance
due on general account, cannot, we think, exist where the
pledge of property is for a specific sum and not a general
pledge;" and in Veponset Bank v. Zeland, 5 Mlet. 259: "The
notes were deposited under special circumstances; they were
not pledged generally, but specifically; and this negatives any
inference of any general lien, if, in the absence of such special
agreement, the law would imply one;" and in lVyckoff v.
Anthony, 90 N. Y. 442, that "where securities are pledged to
a banker or broker for the payment of a particular loan or
debt, he has no lien on the securities for a general balance
or for the payment of other claims." See also jzh.onic Savings Bank v. Bang's Administrator,84 Kentucky, 135; Bank
of the United States v. Macalester,9 Penn. St. 415 ; Hathaway
v. Fall River 11at. Bank, 131 Mass. 14. The facts in Biebinger v. Continental Bank, 99 U. S. 143, were that a customer
of a bank had deposited with it, as collateral security for his
current indebtedness on discounts, a note secured by mortgage,
which he withdrew for foreclosure, at the sale under which he

EREYNTES v. DUMONT.
Opinion of the Court.

purchased the property, and left the deed he received with the
bank at its request. His indebtedness to the bank was then
fully paid, but after a temporary suspension of his dealings he
again incurred debts to it. It was held that as it did not
appear that money was loaned or debt created on the faith of
possession of the deed, the bank could not claim against the
debtor's assignee an equitable mortgage by the deposit of the
conveyance. There are instances of an express pledge of securities for a specific loan, where the surplus realized from them
has been directed to be applied to satisfy a general debt, In re
General Provident Assurance Company, ex _parte lHational
Bank, L. R. 14 Eq. 507; but there is no pretence in the case
at bar of any ground for the application of the principle of
tacking.
Subjected to the test of these well-settled rules, the facts do
not admit of serious doubt as to the correct result.
The bonds were not lodged in the hands of the Schuchardts
in the ordinary course of banking business. They were sent
to New York for a specific purpose, and, when that purpose
was accomplished, permitted to remain for "safe-keeping," and
because New York was a better market than New Orleans,
and the express charges for their return very heavy, as is said
on one side; and for convenience in procuring loans as is asserted on the other. But the loans made were always specific
loans, and the bonds were always otherwise subject to Cavaxoc
& Son's call; and when the Schuchardts themselves loaned, as
they did once or twice, it was upon an express pledge of a
designated number of the bonds as security. Cavaroc & Son
were bankers as well as Schuchardt & Sons, and the latter
appear to have reposed implicit confidence in them, yet there
is no satisfactory evidence that they extended to Cavaroc &
Son any special indulgence in the way of general accommodation. Their cashier thinks he can specify a case in which the
bills of exchange sent by Cavaroc to Schuchardt were not
accompanied by bills of lading, but he does not do so, and the
acceptances of Dumont & Co. were on account of the purchase
price of the bonds. If, as argued by counsel, there is a presumption, as between customer and banker, that the secur-

OCTOBER TERMI; 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ities or property of the customer, found in the possession of
the banker, have been left with him to secure him generally
against loss, this is not an irrebuttable presumption, and each
case stands upon its own circumstances.
And, since Schuchardt & Sons did not claim at the time of
the failure that they had a general lien, but simply that they
held the bonds by "written authority," "as collateral security
against the bank of New Orleans," we can arrive at no other
conclusion than that Schuchardt & Sons were not entitled to
maintain a bankers' lien against the bonds, for the ultimate
debit balance of Cavaroc & Son.
We are asked to dispose of the case adversely to appellants
upon the ground that they received the remaining bonds and
money after the liens decreed in Fry's favor were satisfied;
but such receipt does not oust the jurisdiction. The acceptance
by appellants of what was confessedly theirs cannot be construed into an admission that the decree they seek to reverse
was not erroneous, nor does it take from appellees anything,
on the reversal of the decree, to which they would otherwise
be entitled. Embry v. Palmer, 107 U. S. 3, 8. Nor can the
objection be sustained that there was an absence of jurisdiction in equity because of the adequacy of the remedy at law.
The Schuchardts had collected many thousands of dollars on
coupons cut from the bonds after October 4, 1873, and before
their own failure. Fry, their assignee, had made similar collectioiis. Fry claimed to hold the moneys and the bonds to
secure a balance of account due to the Schuchardts from the
Cavarocs, and also as collateral to the indebtedness of the New
Orleans Bank. Dumont & Co. claimed a large part of the
bonds as against the general creditors of the Cavarocs and as
against Schuchardt & Sons, and Cavatoc's general creditors
claimed tile residuum. As to the amount due to Fry, controversy over some thousands of pounds in the Union, Bank of
Londbn was involved. An accounting was necessary between
the- parties, and a multiplicity of suits was inevitable, unless
the determination of the conflicting rights set up could be
arrived at in a proceeding in equity. And; in,addition, to,
tltese considbrations, we think we ought not to regard with.

REYNES v. DUMONT.

'

Opinion of the Court.

favor the raising of this objection, for the first time, at this
stage of the cause.
The rule as stated in 1 Daniell's Chancery Practice, 555, 4th
Am. ed., is, that if the objection of want of jurisdiction in equity
is not taken in proper time, namely, before the defendant enters
into his defence at large, the court, having the general jurisdiction, will exercise it; and in a note on page 550, many cases
are cited to establish that "if a defendant in a suit in equity
answers and submits to the jurisdiction of the court, it is too
late for him to object that the plaintiff has a plain and adequate remedy at law. This objection should be taken at the
earliest opportunity. The above rule must be taken with the
qualification, that it is competent for the court to grant the
relief sought, and that it has jurisdiction of the subject matter."
In Wylie v. Coxe, 15 How. 415, 420, it is said: "The want
of jurisdiction, if relied on by the defendants, should have
been alleged by plea or answer. It is too late to raise such an
objection on the hearing in the appellate court, unless the want
of jurisdiction is apparent on the face of the bill."
It was held in Lewis v. Cocks, 23 Wall. 466, that if the court,
upon looking at the proofs, found none at all of the matters
which would make a proper case for equity, it would be the
duty of the court to recognize the fact and give it effect, though
not raised by the pleadings nor suggested by counsel. To the
same effect is OelZrics v. Spain, 15 Wall. 211. The doctrine
of these and similar cases is, that the court, for its own protection, may prevent matters purely cognizable at law from
being drawn into chancery, at the pleasure of the parties interested; but it by no means follows, where the subject matter
belongs to the class over which a court of equity has jurisdiction, and the objection that the complainant has an adequate
remedy at law is not made until the hearing in the appellate
tribunal that the latter can exercise no discretion in the disposition of such objection. Under the circumstances of this case,
it' comes altogether too late even though, if taken in limine, it
might have been worthy of attention.
The decrees are reversed at the cost of Fry, trustee, in this
and the Circuit Court, and the cause remandedfor frther
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

