OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

It rdsults from these views that
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
case be remanded to that court with a direction to enter a
decree in favor of the _plaintf, not only for the amount
of the Goldsmith note, namely, $5000, with interest from
NYovember 1, 1881, but also for the proper value of the
$5200 of bonds, with properinterest, such value and interest to be ascertainedby the Circuit Court, and the fplaintir
to recover costs in this court on both aff eals, and costs in
the Circuit Court.

UNITED STATES v. PILE.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
THE UNITED STATES FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 206. Argued and submitted March 15, 1889.-Decided April 8, 1889.

The suspension of the execution of a judgment in a criminal case until the
next term of court, unaccompanied by any pending motion for a rehearing or modification of the judgment or other proceeding taken at the
term of court when the judgment was rendered, leaves the judgment in
full force, and the court without further jurisdiction of the case.
A certificate of division in opinion upon a matter over which the court
below has no jurisdiction brings nothing before this court for review.
MOTION TO DISMISS.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Solicitor General for the motion.
-&fr. John P. Murray, opposing, submitted on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE

MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant below, who is the defendant here, was tried
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Middle District of Tennessee upon an indictment charging him with
falsely making and forging an affidavit of John Frogge and
others in relation to a claim for a pension. The jury by their
vedict found him guilty. His counsel then entered a motion

UNITED STATES v. PILE.
Opinion of the Court.

'

in arrest of judgment upon the alleged insufficiency of the
indictment, which motion was overruled by the court. Thereupon the defendant moved for a new trial, which was refused,
and judgment rendered, sentencing the defendant to be confined
in the jail of Davidson County for three mouths, and to forfeit
and pay to the United States a fine of $250, and the costs, for
which execution should issue, and the defendant be confined
until said fine and costs were paid, or he was otherwise discharged by due course of law.
All this appears by the record to have been done on the 29th
day of October, 1884, and on the 31st day of the same month
the following order was made:
"U1ITED
STATES

V.
No. 3690.
S. H. PI.
"Came the U. S. att'y and the deft. in proper person, and
upon application of the deft., the execution of the judgment
heretofore entered herein is suspended until the fourth Monday in November neit, upon defendant entering into recognizance for his appearance at that date. And thereupon came
John C. Wright, who, with defendant, acknowledged himself
indebted to the United States in the sum of $2000, conditioned
upon the appearance of defendant on the 4th Monday of November to abide by and perform the judgment of the court,
and that he shall not depart without leave of the court.
"On Nov. 24th, 1881, on motion of defendant, the execution of the judgnent herein was suspended until the next term
of the court."
At the subsequent term, April 23, 1885, the following proceedings were had:
"UNITED STATES

'V"
S. Ht. PnIE.

No. 3690.

"Upon sufficient grounds appearing to the court, the judgment of fine and imprisonment pronounced in this cause at the
last term, and the judgment rendered at the last term of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

court on the motion in arrest of judgment overruling the same,
are hereby set aside and for nothing held. And thereupon
comes the defendant, by his counsel, before the Circuit and
District Judges, and moved that the judgment in this case be
arrested, and for causes sets forth the following:
"1. The indictment does not aver any specific intent to
defraud the United States or other party.
"2. The indictment is delusive, uncertain, repugnant, or
inconsistent.
"And the motion coming on for argument before the honorable the judges aforesaid, and they being unable to agree as
to whether the said motion is well taken or not, but having
divided in opinion touching the same, at the request of the
counsel of the defendant, a certificate of division is filed by
the said judges, which is ordered to be made part of the record
in this case. And no further steps will be taken in this case
till the Supreme Court shall have adjudicated the question in
said certificate set forth. The district attorney excepted to
the order of the court setting aside the judgment of the court
rendered at the last term, overruling the motion of defendant
to arrest the judgment, and to the signing of division of opinion
at this term of the court.
"It is ordered that the clerk certify the entire record of this
cause to the Supreme Court.
"It is further ordered that defendant enter into bond with
good security in the penal sum of two thousand dollars, conditioned that he make his personal appearance at the Federal
court-room in iNashville on the first day of April term of said
Circuit Court, 1886, then and there to abide the further order
of said Circuit Court. The defendant objects to the copying
of any part of the record not authorized by law or the rules of
the Supreme Court."
The judges thereupon certified to this court that they were
divided in opinion upon the question of whether the motion in
arrest of judgment should be allowed.
We are of opinion that the case here must be dismissed.
When the Circuit Court had entered its judgment against the

UNITED STATES v. PILE.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant for an imprisonment of three months and a fine of
$250, and had overruled the motion in arrest of judgment and
for a new trial, it had finally disposed of the case. No new
motion was made at that term of the court for any farther
consideration of the matter, and the judgment thus entered
was final. It is true that the court made an order, upon the
application of the defendant, by which the execution of that
judgment was suspended until the fourth Monday in November, which was during the same term, and that on the 24th of
November another order was entered still farther suspending
its execution until the next term of the court. But we do not
consider that this order for the suspension of such execution
set the judgment aside or was founded on any further motion
to reconsider that judgment. Although the mere execution
of it was suspended until the next term of the court the judgment remained in full force, with no proceeding pending to
rehear, reconsider, or modify it. At the succeeding April term
the court entered the order above quoted, that the judgment
of fine and imprisonment, and that upon overruling the motion
in arrest of judgment, be set aside and for nothing held; whereupon the questions above stated were argued upon the motion
in arrest of judgment and the certificate of division made by
the two judges on the question of granting the motion.
We do not understand that the court at that time had any
farther jurisdiction of the case. There was no motion continued from the last term; there was no application or proceeding pending from the last term, nor anything coming over
from it, except the suspension of execution. This did not leave
the power of the court to reconsider the whole case still open.
As it was not a case, therefore, for a division of opinion, in
which either the court or the circuit judge (who did not sit
upon the trial) had any power to act, we consider that there
is nothing before this court, and the case must be dismissed
here. The certificate of division related to a matter in which
they had no right to act or to make such a certificate. It
therefore brings nothing before this court for review, and
The case is dismissedfor want ofjurisdiction.

