BUTLER v. BOSTON STEAMSHIP CO.
Syllabus.

during the time requisite to obtain new machinery elsewhere.
The rule of damages, adopted by the court below, of deducting
from the contract price the reasonable cost of altering the
construction and setting of the machinery so as to make it
conform to the contract, is the only one that would do full
and exact justice to both parties, and is in accordance with the
decisions upon similar contracts. Benjamin v. flillard, 23
How. 149; Railroad Co. v. Smith, 21 Wall. 255; ]Marsh v.
XfPherson, 105 U. S. 709, 717; Cutler v. Close, 5 Car. & P.
337; Thornton v. Place, 1 Mood. & Rob. 218; Allen v. Cameron, 3 Tyrwh. 907; S. C. 1 Or. & M. 832.
The notice given by the defendant to the plaintiff "to put
the mill in repair so as to do good work" was sufficient to
cover all alterations necessary to accomplish that end.
No error is shown in tho exclusion of Geissner's testimony
as to the rental value of a mill which he had never seen and
knew nothing of. Whether a witness called to testify to any
matter of opinion has such qualifications and knowledge as
to make his testimony admissible is a preliminary question for
the judge presiding at the trial; and his decision of it is conclusive, unless clearly shown to be erroneous in matter of law.
Perkins v. Stickney, 132 Mass. 217, and cases cited; Sorg v.
First German Congregation,63 Penn. St. 156.
Judgment afirmed.

BUTLER v. BOSTON AND SAVANNAH STEAMSHIP

COMPANY.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICI OF MASSACHUSETTS.
I'os. 244, 340. Argued April 10, 11, 1889.-Decided April 22,1889.

The provision in Rev. Stat. § 4283, limiting the liability of the owner of a
vessel, applies to cases of personal injury and death, as well as to cases
of loss of or injury to property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
When proceedings have been properly begun in admiralty by the owner of
a vessel to limit his liability under Rev. Stat. § 4283, and monitions have
issued and been published, it becomes the duty of all claimants, whether
for loss of property or injury to the person, or loss of life, to have the
liability of the owner contested in that suit, and an allegation that the
owner himself was in fault does not affect the jurisdiction of the court
to entertain the cause of limited liability.
The steamboat inspection act of February 28, 1871, 16 Stat. 440, c. 100, Rev.
Stat. Title LII, does not supersede or displace the proceeding for limited
liability in cases arising under its provisions.
Whether the act of June 26, 1884, 23 Stat. 53, c. 121, § 18, is intended to be
explanatory of the intent of Congress in its legislation concerning limited
liability of shipowners, qucwre.
In the absence of an Allegation to the contrary, it will be presumed in a
limited liability case in admiralty that the captain and the first mate' of a
sea-going coast-wise steamer were licensed pilots.
The law of limited liability was enacted by Congress as part of the maritime
law of the United States, and is codxtensive in its operation with the
whole territorial domain of that law.
While the general maritime law, with slight modifications, is accepted as
law in this country, it is subject under the Constitution to such modifications as Congress may see fit to adopt.
The Constitution has not placed the power of legislation to change or modify the general maritime law in the legislatures of the States.
The limited liability act (Rev. Stat. 4282-4285) applies to the case of a disaster happening within the technical limits of a county in a State, and to
a case in which the liability itself arises from a law of the State.
Whether a law of a State can have force to create a liability in a maritime
case, within the dominion of the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
where neither the general maritime law nor an act of Congress has
created such liability, is not decided.
The Ciy of Norwich, 118 U. S. 468, affirmed as to insurance money.

TEE court, in its opinion, stated the case as follows:
The two cases are so intimately connected, both in the proceedings and in the questions arising therein, that it will be
most convenient to consider them together. They arose out
of the stranding, sinking and total loss of the steamship City
of Columbus, on Devil's Bridge, near Gay Head, at the western extremity of Martba's Vineyard, and near the mouth of
Vineyard Sound, on the 18th of January, 1881. Most of the
passengers and cargo were ldst, and amongst the passengers
lost was Elizabeth It. Beach, a single woman, of Mansfield,

BUTLER r. BOSTON STEAMSHIP CO.
Statement of the Case.

in the State of Connecticut. The appellants represent her.
.Natnaniei Beach being appointed administrator of her estate
in Connecticut, Butler being appointed ancillaTy administrator
in Massachusetts, and the other two appellants being, one an
aunt, and the other a niece of the deceased, dependent on her
for support. The appellees, The Boston and Savannah Steamship Company, were the owners of the ship.
Soon after the disaster occurred, and early in February,
.1$84, one Brown and one Vance commenced each of them an
action at law against the steamship company, in the Superior
Court of the county of Suffolk, in Massachusetts, to recover
damages for losses alleged to have been sustained by them by
means of the stranding and sinking of the vessel. Thereupon
the steamship company, on the 18th of February, 1884, in order
to obtain the benefit of the law of limited liability, filed a libel
in the District Court of the United States for the District
of Massachusetts, against the said Brown and Vance, and
against all other persons who had suffered loss or damage by
said disaster. This is one of the cases now before us on appeal. The libel was in the usual form of libels in causes of
limited liability. It set forth the ownership of the vessel, the
business in which she was employed, namely, as a passenger
and freight steamship between Boston and- Savannah, her
sea-worthiness, her being well and thoroughly officered and
manned and furnished and equipped as the law required. It
stated that on the 17th of January, 1881, she left Boston on a
voyage to Savannah, having on board about 83 passengers
and considerable merchandise, a list of the former, as far as
known, and a schedule of the latter, being annexed to the
libel. It stated that whilst prosecuting said voyage, and while
on the high seas, to wit, in or near Vineyard Sound, the steamship struck on the rocks near and off the shore at Gay Head,
in Martha's Vineyard, in the District of Massachusetts, about
half past three in the morning of January 18th, 1884, and in a
very few minutes thereafter heeled over, filled with water, and
sunk, becoming a total wreck and loss; that most of the passengers and crew, about 100 in number, were drowned and
lost, those surviving claiming to have suffered great injury;
VOL. cxxx-34

OCTOBER TERMA,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

and that all the property and effects of the passengers and
crecy, and all the cargo on board, (except a small pam.
saved in a damaged condition, and of little value,) together
with said steamship, its machinery, tackle, apparel and furmture, were destroyed and lost.
The libel propounded other articles, as follows, to wit:
"Fifth. All said great. loss of life, injury and damage To
persons on board, and loss of and damage to property, were
occasioned and incurred without the privity or knowledge of
the libellant, the owner of said steamship.
"Sixth. The libellant further alleges, that, as it is informed
and believes, certain persons or corporations, owners or insurers of property on board, and lost or damaged by and at the
loss of said steamship as aforesaid; certain other persons, who
claim to have been on board said steamship at the time of the
loss aforesaid, and to have suffered in consequence thereof injuries and damage to their persons and property; and still other
persons, claiming to represent persons drowned and lost in said
disaster, and claiming to be entitled to recover and receive large
sums of money on account of the death of and injury to said
persons so represented by them -all make, or may hereafter
make, claim that the striking upon the rocks, and sinking and
wreck of said steamship, and the loss of life, damage to persons and property aforesaid, were occasioned and incurred
from the fault and neglect of the libellant, or its officers and
agents, and that the libellant is liable and responsible to pay
to them the loss and damages arising as aforesaid; all of which
claims and allegations the libellant denies, and, on the contrary,
it alleges that all such losses and damages were occasioned or
incurred without its neglect, fault, privity, or knowledge, and,
as it is informed and believes, without the neglect or fault of
its officers or agents, or any of them."
"Eighth. The losses and damage to persons and property
incurred and occasioned by the said stranding, sinking, and
loss of said steamship, and the alleged claims and liabilities
made against the libellant, by reason thereof, greatly exceed
the amount or value of the interest of the libellant, as owner,
in said steamship, her machinery, tackle, apparel, and furni-

BUTLER v. BOSTON STEA"HSHIP CO.
Statement of the Case.

ture, immediately after said loss, and in her freight then pending. Upon and after the happening of said loss, said steamship, her machinery, tackle, apparel, and furniture became a
wreck and total loss, and, the libellant is informed and believes,
were then practically worthless, and the libellant's interest
therein became and was of little or no value. The gross
freight then pending on the voyage of said steamship to
Savannah was of the value of about $1000.
"1Ninth. The libellant, while not admitting but denying
that it is under any liability for the acts, losses, and damages
aforesaid, and desiring and claiming the right in this court to
contest any such liability of itself or of said steamship, claims
and is entitled to have limited its liability, as owner, therefor,
(if any such liability shall hereafter be found to exist,) to the
amount or value of its interest, as owner, in such steamship
after said loss, and her freight then pending.
"Tenth. Said steamship, in her damaged and wrecked condition, now lies sunken near the shore at Gay Head, Martha's
Vineyard, within this district, and within the jurisdiction and
process of this honorable court."
The libellant thereupon claimed and petitioned that, in case
it should be found that there was any liability for the acts,
losses and damages aforesaid, upon said steamship City of
Columbus, or the libellant as owner thereof, (which liability
the libellant did not admit, but expressly and wholly denied,
and desired in that court to contest,) such liability should in
no event exceed the amount or value of the interest of the
libellant, as owner, in said steamship and her freight then
pending, as by law provided; and to that end the libellant
prayed that all claims for loss, damage, or injury to persons
or property by reason of the premises might be heard and determined in that court, and apportioned according to law, and
that due appraisement might be ordered and made of the ship,
her machinery and furniture, and of her pending freight at
the time of the loss, offering to pay the appraised value into
court or give proper stipulation therefor, and that monition in
due form should issue against said Brown and Vance and any
and all persons claiming damages by reason of the premises,

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

citing them to appear, etc., and that all actions and suits concerning the matters set forth might be restrained and enjoined.
Upon the filing of this libel a monition was duly issued and
published, and an injunction against actions and suits was
granted, issued and published. The monition was returnable
to the first day of July, 1884.
Xotwithstanding these proceedings the appellants, on the
27th of September, 1884, filed a libel against the steamship
company, in the same District Court for the District of Massachusetts, to recover damages for the death of said Elizabeth
R. Beach. This is the other suit now before us on appeal.
After stating the engagement of passage by Miss Beach on
the steamship from Boston to Savannah, the character of the
vessel as a.coast-wise sea-going steamship in the coasting trade,
under enrolment and license, and the circumstances of the
stranding and loss, and the drowning of Miss Beach, the libel
of the appellants averred and charged that the disaster was
caused by negligence on the part of those employed by the
steamship company in managing the ship, and by inefficiency
in the discipline of the officers and crew, and that no proper
measures were taken to save the passengers. The libel further
alleged that at the time of the disaster the second mate, one
Harding, was in charge of the ship, and was not a pilot for
those waters; that it was a part of his duty to take charge of
the ship alternately with the first mate; that it was an omission of duty on the part of the owner to entrust to the second
mate the charge of the ship without the aid of a special pilot;
and that no pilot was on duty on the ship at the time of the
accident. The libel further alleged that "there was not proper
apparatus on the vessel for launching the boats;" "that the
ship was not properly constructed in respect to bulkheads and
otherwise;" and that there was unfitness, gross negligence or
carelessness on the part of the servants and agents of the respondents engaged in navigating the ship, and in not taking
proper measures to save the passengers, and as displayed in
the inefficiency of the discipline of the officers and crew of
the vessel; and that in respect to these matters there was
negligence and carelessness on the part of the owner.

BUtLER v. BOSTON STEAMSHIP CO.
Statement of the Case.

The libel further set out a statute of Massachusetts of the
following purport, to wit:
"If the life of a passenger be lost, by reason of the negligence or carelessness of the proprietor or proprietors of a
steamboat, or stage-coach, or of common carriers of passengers,
or by the unfitness or gross negligence or carelessness of their
servants or agents, such proprietor or proprietors and common
carriers shall be liable in damages not exceeding five thousand
nor less than five hundred dollars, to be assessed with reference
to the degree of culpability of the proprietor or proprietors or
common carriers liable, or of their servants or agents, and
recovered in an action of tort, commenced within one year
from the injury causing the death, by the executor or administrator of the deceased person, for the use of the widow and
children of the deceased, in equal moieties, or, if there are no
children, to the use of the widow, or, if no widow, to the use
of the next of kin."
The libel further alleged that after the vessel struck, said
Elizabeth R. Beach suffered great mental and bodily pain upon
the vessel and was afterwards washed into the sea and drowned;
that the value of her clothing and baggage lost was $150; and
that by virtue of the premises and under the general admiralty
jurisdiction of the United States the libellants were entitled to
recover $50,000, and by virtue of the statute of Massachusetts,
$5000.
The steamship company, thereupon, on the 10th day of
October, 1884, filed an exception and plea to this libel, setting
up in bar the record and proceedings of the cause of limited
liability previously instituted by them in the same District
Court, and then pending.
To meet this exception, the appellants, on the 16t11 of
December, 1884, filed an amendment to their libel, by way of
replication, in which they claimed the benefit of the Steamboat
Inspection Act, passed February 28, 1871, (Title LII of the
Revised Statutes of the United States,) which makes many
regulations respecting the steam machinery and apparatus of
steam vessels of the United States in the merchant service,
navigating the waters of the United States, and respecting

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

ttieir construction and manner of lading and accommodating
passengers and merchandise, and the officers and crews with
which they are to be manned, and requires sea-going steamers
in the coasting trade when under way and not on the high seas,
to be under the control and direction of pilots licensed by the
'steamboat inspectors, imposes penalties for loss of life through
negligence and inattention, and gives damages to the full
amount against the vessel and her master and owner to persons
injured, if the injury happens through any neglect or failure
to comply with the provisions of the law, or through any
known defects or imperfections of the steaming apparatus,
or of the hull. Rev. Stat. Title LII, passih, §§ 4401, 4493.
The appellants averred that the City of Columbus was subject
to this law, and when the catastrophe happened was within
the waters of the State of Massachusetts, and not upon the
high seas, and not under the control of a licensed pilot. They
further averred that there was connivance, misconduct, or violation of law on the part of the owner in not providing or procuring the vessel to be under the control and direction of a
licensed pilot, and that there was misconduct, negligence and
.inattention to duty on the part of the captain, second mate, or
'other persons employed on the vessel, by which connivance,
misconduct and negligence the life of said Elizabeth R. Beach
was destroyed.
On the same day, the 16th of December, 1884, the appellants appeared to the libel of the steamship company in the
cause of limited liability, and filed a pleading which they
entitled an Answer, Petition and Exceptions, and by which they
set up substantially the same matter as had been averred in
their libel and the amendment thereto; and in addition, they
alleged that at the time of the disaster the steamer and her
freight were substantially insured, and that the owners had
received, or were entitled to receive, a large amount of money
for said insurance, and would thereby be substantially indemnified for the loss of vessel and freight.
Afterwards, on the 19th of January, 1885, the appellants
moved in the same cause that the steamship company be
ordered to pay into court the said insurance money. To this

BUTLER ,v. BOSTON STEAMAISHIP CO.
Statement of the Case.

motion the company filed a written reply in which they set'up
the fact that in pursuance of an order of the court thev had
entered into stipulation to pay into court the amount of the
appraised value of their interest in the ship and freight. They
further averred that, in pursuance of a covenant made at the
time of their purchasing the said steamship, in the mortgage
given for the purchase money, all the insurance procured by
them had been assigned and made payable to the vendors and
mortgagees, for whose benefit and security the policies were kept
on foot; and said parties had collected the insurance money,
and applied it in part payment of the mortgaged notes, and
the libellants, The Boston and Savannah Steamship Company,
had not collected or received any part of it. To this answer
the appellants filed an exception in the nature of a demurrer.
Upon these pleadings the parties agreed upon a statement
of facts, which, after stating the titles of the two causes, was
as follows, to wit:
"STATEMENT

OF AGREED FAcTs.

"In the above entitled causes the following facts are agreed
by the Boston and Savannah Steamship Company and John
Haskell Butler, administrator, et al., party excepting to said
libel of said company:
"First. All the allegations contained in the eleventh, twelfth,
thirteenth, fourteenth, nineteenth, twenty-third and twentyfourth articles of the answer, petition and exceptions of said
John Haskell Butler, administrator, et al., in said suit, are true.
"Second. Except as relieved or affected by the Limited
Liability Act of 1851 Rev. Stat. 4283-5 and the Rules of the
United States Supreme Court thereunder, the libellant, shipowner, is liable for all loss and damage caused by the stranding
of said steamship 'City of Columbus.'
"Third. In respect to the cause of the disaster alleged, the
respondents claim, in addition to the concession by libellant,
the B. and S. Steamship Company, of negligence on the part
of their agents and servants, as above agreed, that at the time
of disaster the second mate was in charge of the ship; that he
was not a pilot for the waters upon which the ship was. then

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

going and was not licensed as a pilot by the inspectors of
steamboats; and that no pilot was on duty on said ship at the
time of the disaster; and, further, that the disaster was owing
to the unfitness, gross negligence, or carelessness of the servants or agents of the libellant, who were engaged in navigating the ship at the time of the disaster, so that the case was
Within § 6 of c. 73 of the Public Statutes of Afassachilsetts.
The libellant denies all these allegations, and claims that they
are immaterial to the issues of the cause, if true; and that the
captain was in charge of the ship at the time of the disaster.
"Fourth. Said loss and damage were without the privity
and knowledge of the libellant, the Boston and Savannah
Steamship Company, the sole owner of said steamship.
"Fifth. Said steamship was a coast-wise, sea-going vessel,
under enrolment, and was, at and before the time of loss, subject to all the laws and rules of navigation applicable to such
vessels; and at the time of loss was on a voyage from Boston to Savannah, Georgia, and proceeding through Vineyard
Sound, stranding on Devil's Bridge, off and near Gay Head,
]ffartha's Vineyard. And to this extent the respondents,
Butler et als., qualify any admission in their answer to the
third article of the libel of the company; and the company
qualify any averment pertinent thereto in said article.
"Sixth. After the filing of the libel or petition in this
cause, the court caused due appraisement to be had of the
amount or value of the interest of the libellant, as owner, in
such ship and her freight for the voyage, and thereupon made
an order for the giving of a stipulation, with sureties for the
payment thereof, into court, whenever the same shall be
ordered; and upon due compliance with this order the court
issued a monition, February 28, 1884, against all persons claiming damages for any such loss, embezzlement, destruction, damage or injury, citing them to appear before the said court and
make due proof of their respective claims at or before July 1,
1884, and public notice of such monition was given as required;
and thereafter, on the application of said owner, the court made
an order to restrain the further prosecution of all and any suit
or suits against said owner in respect of any such claim or

BUTLER v. BOSTON STEAMSHIP CO.
Statement of the Case.

claims, all as provided in the admiralty rules of the United
States Supreme Court.
"Seventh. The Boston and Savannah Steamship Company
is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Massachiisetts, and is located at Boston, in said State."
The following additional statement was agreed to in the
action of the appellants, to wit:
"1. Except as relieved or affected by the Limited Liability
Act of 1851, (Rev. Stat. %§4283-5,) and the Rules of the
United States Supreme Court thereunder, the respondent,
ship-owner, is liable for all loss and damage caused by the
stranding of said steamship ' City of Columbus.'
"2. The respondent claims that the captain was in charge
of the ship at the time of the disaster.
"3. Said loss and damage were without the privity and
knowledge of the respondent, the Boston and Savannah
Steamship Company, the sole owner of said steamship.
"4. Said steamship was a coast-wise, sea-going vessel, under
enrolment, and was, at and before the time of loss, subject to
all the laws and rules of navigation applicable to such vessels;
and at the time of loss was on a voyage from Boston to Savannah, Georgia, and proceeding through Vineyard Sound, stranding on Devil's Bridge, off and near Gay Head, Martha's Vineyard."
The two causes were argued together upon the pleadings
and these statements of fact; and on the 10th of April, 1885,
the following decrees were made, to wit:
In the suit of the appellants the following decree was made:
"This cause was heard upon libel and respondent's exceptions thereto, and upon agreed facts; and it appearing to the
court that the record alleged in said exceptions exists, it is
thereupon ordered, adjudged and decreed that the exceptions
be sustained, and the libel dismissed with costs."
In the limited liability cause the following decree was made:
"It is found and decreed by the court that the libellant is
entitled to the limitation of liability for loss of life, and other
damage, as claimed in said libel; and that evidence tending to
establish the facts, claimed by the respondents in clause three

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

of the agreed facts on file, is immaterial, and therefore inadmissible, and that the allegations in the libellants' answer to
respondents' motion that insurance money be paid into court
are true; and it is thereupon ordered, adjudged and decreed
by the court that the said respondents' exceptions to' the libellants' answer to said respondents' motion that insurance money
be paid into court, be overruled, and their said motion denied;
and that the exceptions of said respondents to the libel be
overruled, and their petition be dismissed."
These decrees were affirmed by the Circuit Court, and from
the decrees of the latter court the present appeal was taken.
.Mr.
Eugene P. Carver and -Mr'. 1rank Goodwin for appellants.
!. The limitation-liability act, Rev. Stat. §§ 4282-4287, does
not apply to a claim for loss of life of a passenger, or for
injuries suffered by him through negligence.
The law has a special regard for the rights of passengers
carried by common carriers. It holds the carrier to the highest possible degree of care, and requires him to make good all
damages suffered through want of it. Pennsylvania Co. v.
Roy, 102 U. S. 451. A statute in derogation of this fundamental principle should be so expressed as plainly to show
that this great rule is in terms and purpose departed from.
This act does not in terms apply to passengers: and when the
object of its enactment is considered, viz.: the diminution of
the risks of ship-owners engaged in the transportation of cargoes, it is plain that it applies only to loss of property, and
does not apply to persons at all.
Neither by the civil law nor the common law was there or
is there a limitation of liability. The principle of such limitation appears to have arisen in the Middle Ages, and the
origin thereof is set forth by Judge Ware in the case of The
Rebecca, 1 Ware, 187; and Judge Ware's exposition has been
accepted by the Supreme Court in .NTorwich Co. v. WTvight, 13
Wall. 104. That the courts of the United States, down to the act
of 1851, did not recognize the rule of the ancient or gm.1::.

BUTLER v. BOSTON STEAMSHIP CO.
Argument for Appellants.

maritime law, but refused to adopt it either in admiralty or
common law, see Del Col v. Arnold, 3 Dall. 333; The Amiable
Nancy, 1 Paine, 111; Pope v. lVickerson, 3 Story, 465; -Hall
v. TVashington Insurance Co., 2 Story, 176; New Jersey Steam
]9'av. Co. v. .Merchants' Bank, 6 How. 344, 435.
The history of the subject shows that the scope of the act
of Congress is confined to advancing the interests of commerce
and trade, -the transportation of merchandise.
The first act on the subject was the Massachusetts act of
1818, derived from the English statute 7 Geo. II, c. 15. This
was followed by a statute of M aine. The continuity between
the acts of Massachusetts and Maine and the act of Congress,
forming one chain in a system of legislation, is also recognized
and enforced by the Supreme Court of the United States in
Norwich Co. v. Wright, 13 Wall. 104.
This limited liability act is not to be extended, even in
respect to goods, by construction. Mr. Justice Curtis held
that it does not protect a vessel when the fire, which had
burned up the goods, destroyed them after they had been
landed from the vessel, and were on the wharf, in a case
where there had been no delivery to consignee. Its application, in respect to fire, is only to goods lost or damaged
through fire happening to or on board of the vessel. Salmon
Falls lanf. Co. v. The Tangier, 6 Am. Law Reg. 504; Zing
v. Am. Trans. Co., 1 Flippin, 1; The Fgypt, 25 Fed. Rep. 320;
The .Mamie,5 Fed. Rep. 813; . C. 105 U. S. 773; S. C. 110
U. S. 742; Gibson v. Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27, 32.
In Carroll v. Staten Island Railroad, 58 N. Y. 126, the
Court of Appeals of New York hold that the steamboat act
of February 28, 1871, 16 Stat. 440, c. 100, is not to be construed in the light of the limited liability act of 1851; that
"a narrow construction, in favor of ship-owners, of a statute
enacted to secure the safety of passengers, is not justified on
the ground that their common law liability as carriers of goods
had, by a prior statute, made for the purpose of assimilating
our legislation on the subject to that of England, been to some
extent limited." See also Dougan v. Champlain Transportation, Co., 56 N. Y. 1; Chamberlainv. Western Transportation

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

flo., 44 N. Y. 305; Wallace v. Providence and Stonington
Steamship Co., 14 Fed. Rep. 56; The Garden, City, 26 Fed.
Rep. 766.
The liability of owners is not restricted by act of Congress
providing for the security of passengers on steamboats, and
their liability is not confined to the acts of omission or commission therein declared to be negligent. The act does not
operate to take away any common law liability. Caldwell v.
New Jersey Steamboat Co., 47 N. Y. 282; Swarthout v. New
Jersey Steamboat Co., 48 N. Y. 209; Carroll v. Staten Island
Railroad, 58 N. Y. 126; Navigation Co. v. Dwyer, 29 Texas,
376.
There are a few decisions beside that of Judge Benedict in
The Epsilon, 6 Ben. 378, in which the limited liability act has
been extended beyond cases of property; and, with the exception of the Rhode Island case, Rounds v. Providence dc.
Steamship Co., 14 R. I. 344, they are, all of them, District
Court cases, or the decisions of District Court judges; and
this Rhode Island case, together with most of the others, merely
imports to follow the decision of Judge Benedict in The Esilon as the authority upon the questions. The cases are: In 're
Long Island &c. Trans. Co., 5 Fed. Rep. 599; The Alpena, 8
Fed. Rep. 280; The Amsterdam, 23 Fed. Rep. 112; Briggs v.
Day, 21 Fed. Rep. 727; Craig v. ContinentalIns. Co., 26 Fed.
Rep. 798.
An examination of these cases will show that the distinction
between injury to a passenger and injury to a member of the
public, toward whom the ship owed no peculiar obligation, has
not always been observed in following the decision in The
Epsilon. The Epsilon was not the case of a passenger, but
of a man killed by the explosion of the vessel's boiler, while
he was on land, standing on a pier. There is nothing in the
case to show that other persons on board were passengers. See
Ex2parte Phenix Ins. Co., 118 U. S. 610; Johnson v. Chicago
& Pacific Elevator Co., 119 U. S. 388, 397. The decision in
The Epsilon rests on two grounds: (1) The words of the stat
ute: (2) The Continental Codes.
1. As to the words of the statute:

BUTLER v. BOSTON STEA]ASHIP CO.
Argument for Appellants.

The words of the United States statute of 1851, c. 43, § 3,
9 Stat. 635, from which § 4283 of the Revised Statutes is
taken, are as follows: "That the liability of the owner or owners of any ship or vessel, for any embezzlement, loss or destruction, by the master, officers, mariners, passengers, or any
other person or persons, of any property, goods or merchandise, shipped or put on board of such ship or vessel, or for any
loss, damage or injury by collision, or for any act, matter or
thing, loss, damage or forfeiture, done, occasioned or incurred
without the privity or knowledge of such owner or owners,
shall in no case exceed the amount or value of the interest of
such owner or owners respectively, in such ship or vessel, and
her freight then pending." The differences between this expression of the law and that of § 4283 are apparently mostly
formal; but there is one change which may be substantial.
The form in the Revised Statutes omits the plural of owner,
and the word "ship," and comprehends the persons offending,
under the phrase, "by any person." But one substantial change
seems to have been made. Instead of the word "loss," in the
phrase, "act, matter or thing, loss, damage or forfeiture," in
the act of 1851, we have in the Revised Statutes the word
"lost" substituted. Omitting the mere punctuation mark after
the word "thing," we get as the present expression of the law,
"thing lost;" and if this was an intentional change, it shows
the more clearly the intention to apply the act to things, and
not to persons. Indeed, the adjective "lost" can have no signification, except as connected with "thing."
The rule of construction in such cases has been declared in
United States v. Bowen, 100 U. S. 508, as follows: "The Revised Statutes must be treated as the legislative declaration of
the statute law on the subjects which they embrace, on the
first day of December, 1873. When the meaning is plain the
courts cannot look to the statutes which have been revised to
see if Congress erred in that revision, but may do so when
necessary to construe doubtful language used in expressing the
meaning of Congress." In that case the .word "such" had
been interpolated in the revision, which altered the meaning
of the statute as it stood prior to the revision; but, as the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

language of the revision was plain, the court construed the
law as it read in the revision. So, also, in CanbriaIron Co.
v. Ashburn, 118 U. S. 54. And so here, the word "lost" as
here used is entirely plain. There is nothing doubtful in the
language as it stands. And furthermore, and in addition, we
say, that in the light of the history of these statutes it is fairly
inferrible that this was an intentional change. But, however
that may be, the meaning of the revision is plain. See, further,
The Montana, 22 Fed. Rep. 715; Thomassen v. IWhitwill, 12
Fed. Rep. 891; The Marine City, 6 Fed. Rep. 413; ffcDonald
v. Hovey, 110 U. S. 619; Pentlargev. Kirby, 20 Fed. Rep. 898.
2. As to the Continental Codes, it is sufficient to refer to the
language of the court in The Lottawanna,21 Wall. 558, where
this court says: "To ascertain,therefore, what the maritime law
of this country is, it is not enough to read the French, German,
Italian, and other foreign works on the subject, or the codes
which they have framed; but we must have regard to our own
legal history, Constitution, legislation, usages and adjudications
as well.

.

.

.

The scope of the maritime law and that of

commercial regulation are not coterminous, it is true, but the
latter embraces much the largest portion of ground covered by
the former. Under it Congress has regulated the registry,
enrolment, license, and nationality of ships and vessels; the
method of recording bills of sale and mortgages thereon; the
rights and duties of seamen; the limitations of responsibility
of ship-owners for the negligence and misconduct of their captains and crews; and many other things of a character truly
maritime."
In NAorwich Co. v. Wright, 13 Wall. 104, this court says of
this law, that its great object was to encourage ship-building,
and to induce capitalists to invest money in this branch of industry. See, also 3oore v. Am. Trans. Co., 24 ]HIow. 1; Simpson v. Story, 145 Mlass. 497. That was the object of the law,
and not the encouragement of the transportation of human
beings. Respecting the latter traffic Congress has legislated
in an opposite direction, passing stringent laws for preserving
the security of passengers on steam-vessels. Rev. Stat. §§ 44244426, 4463-4500; 22 Stat. 346, c. 441; Id. 186, c. 374; Hart-

BUTLER v. BOSTON STEAMASHIP CO.
Argument for Appellants.

,ranftv.'Da Pont, 118 U. S. 223; Thte Strathairly,124 U. S.
558; The Hazel Eirke, 25 Fed. Rep. 601; The iRosa, 25 Fed.
Rep. 601; The idaho, 29 Fed. Rep. 187; The Pope Catlin, 31
Fed. Rep. 408; Oyster Police Steamers, 31 Fed. Rep. 763.
The purpose of the act'of 1851 being as above sho-wn, and
the method of carrying it out being also as above shown to be
in accordance with the general maritime law, let us examine
how that purpose is provided for by the statute.
The Revised Statutes of the United States provide (§ 4284)
as follows: "Whenever any such embezzlement, loss, or destruction is suffered by several freighters or owners of goods,
wares, merchandise, or any proplerty whatever, on the same
voyage, and the whole value of the vessel .and her freight for
the voyage is not sufficient to make compensation to each of
them, they shall receive compensation from the owner of the
vessel in proportion to their respective losses; and for that
purpose the freighters and [owner] [owners] of the property,
and the owner of the vessel, or any of them, may take the appropriate proceedings in any court, for the purpose of apportioning the sum for which the owner of the vessel may be
liable among the parties entitled thereto."
Section 4285: "It shall be deemed a sufficient compliance,
on the part of such owner, with the requirements of this Title
relating to his liability for any embezzlement, loss, or destruction of anyproerty, goods, or merchandise, if he shall transfer his interest in such vessel and freight, for the benefit of
such claimants, to a trustee, to be appointed by any court of
competent jurisdiction, to act as such trustee for the person
who may prove to be legally entitled thereto; from and after
which transfer all claims and proceedings against the owner
shall cease."
So it is only in case of damage to "property" that any parties may take "appropriate proceedings in any court" for the
purpose of apportioning the sum for which the owner may be
liable; and it is only in the case of destruction, etc., of "property, goods, or merchandise," that the owner of the vessel shall
be allowed to make the transfer through a court of Admiralty.
Is not this fairly conclusive upon the question? Thus it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

certain that the libel of this company cannot be sustained as
against these passengers; and it would seem to be very clear
that if Congress had intended that the ship-owner should plead
the act in bar of proceedings instituted against him by a passenger, the act would have provided a means to enable him to
take "appropriate proceedings" for an apportionment, and for
the surrender of his vessel as well, as in the case of injury to
goods or damage to property by collision. Ialker v. Boston Insurance Co., 14 Gray, 288; The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24;
Peoples' Ferry Co. v. Beers, 20 How. 393; The St. -Lawrence,
1 Black, 522; Insurance Co. v. Dunham, 11 Wall. 1.
Whenever the Supreme Court has applied the general maritime law to cases arising before them, it will be observed that
they have limited themselves to that. The growth of admiralty jurisprudence within this country has been in the direction
of a freedom from the confined limits within which, owing to
the well-known jealousy of the courts of common law in England, the law of the admiralty was in that country restricted.
But, while our admiralty law has expanded and developed, and
this by the application of the general maritime law, our Supreme Court has carefully kept it within the boundaries of the
law and usages of this country, and has not imported the modern codes into our system. The General Smith, 4 Wheat. 438;
The St. Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheat. 409; United States v. La Vengeance, 3 Dall. 297; United States v. The Sally, 2 Cranch, 406;
United States v. The Betsey and the Charlotte, 4 Cranch, 443;
The Samuel, 1 Wheat. 9; The Octavia, 1 Wheat. 20; Hobart
v. Drogan, 10 Pet. 108; lfew Jersey Steam Xavigation Co. v.
lfer-chanlts' Bank, 6 How. 344; Rich v. Lambert, 12 How. 347;
The Genesee
hief, 12 How. 443; Ward v. Peck, 18 How.
267 ; D~pont v. Vance, 19 How. 162; The Mhina, 7 Wall. b3;
The Mllerrimac, 14 Wall. 199; Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99;
The Scotia, 14 Wall. 170; The Alabama and The Gamecock,
92 U. S. 695; The Atlas, 93 U. S. 302; The Virginia Ehrman
and The Agnese, 97 U. S. 309; The North Star, 106 U. S. 17.
In none of these cases have the modern codes been imported
into our system of laws. The court has aimed to apply the
general maritime law of the world, when it could do so with-

BUTLER v. BOSTON STEAMSHIP CO.
Argument for Appellants.

out infringing upon the law and usages of this country. Beyond that it has in no case undertaken to go.
But if the act limiting liability could otherwise be held to
apply to loss of life or injury to passengers, the act of Congress of 1871, 16 Stat. 440, c. 100, would take this case out of
its operation. This is the same act of 1871 as that passed
upon in CarrolZ v. Staten Island Railroad Co. (supra).
Section 51 thereof, (Rev. Stat. § 4401,) provides that "every
coast-wise seagoing steam vessel, subject to the navigation laws
of the Vnited States, and to the rules and regulations aforesaid, not sailing under register, shall, when under way, except
on the high seas, be under the control and direction of pilots
licensed by the inspectors of steamboats."
This provision (as well as all the other provisions of this act)
does not restrict the common law liability, or diminish it.
The lost steamship was a coast-wise, sea-going steam vessel,
under enrolment, subject to all the laws and rules of navigation applicable to such vessels; and at the time of the loss
was on a voyage from Boston to Savannah, and was wrecked
in Vineyard Sound, upon the shore of Martha's Vineyard,
Massachusetts, and when the catastrophe happened she was
within the waters of Massachusetts, and was not upon the
high seas. If there was an omission in Vineyard Sound to
have a pilot in charge, that would likewise be an infringement
of the act. But if the omission to have a pilot in charge did
not come under the act, yet such omission would be none the
less fault or negligence at the common or by the maritime law.
One of the issues raised upon the agreed statement of facts
is, whether the ship was under the control and direction of a
licensed pilot at the time of the disaster. And it there appears
that the claim of the company is that the captain was in charge
of the ship at that time, and not the second mate, who is
claimed not to have been a pilot. And it further there appears
that the ship was a coast-wise, sea-going steam vessel, under
enrolment, and on a voyage from Boston to Savannah, and
while proceeding through Vineyard Sound stranded on Devil's
Bridge, off and near Gay Head, Martha's Vineyard. Thus
it appears that she was not proceeding on the high seas, but
VOL. cxx--35

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

within the waters of Massachusetts, so that a pilot should
have been in charge under the act of 1871. So proceeding,
if she was not under the control and direction of a licensed
pilot, there was an infringement of the act of 1871.
Then, again, it is conceded that there was negligence on the
part of those employed by the company in the grounding and
wrecking, and that the steamship proceeded nearer the shore
than was prudent or skilful. If, as the company contend, the
captain was in charge of the ship, the case falls equally within
the provisions of the law, as is above set forth. The effect of
the act of 1871 upon the limited liability act does not appear
to have been argued or considered in The Garden City, 26
Fed. Rep. 766, although both acts are considered in that case.
II. A statute of the State of Massachusetts, providing for
recovery in the case of loss of life, is relied on. That law, as
contained in the Public Statutes of Massachusetts, c. 73, § 6, is,
and at the time of the disaster was, as follows: "If the life of
a passenger is lost by reason of the negligence or carelessness
of the proprietor or proprietors of a steamboat or stage-coach,
or of common carriers of passengers, or by the unfitness or
gross negligence or carelessness of their servants or agents, such
proprietor or proprietors and common carriers shall be liable in
damages not exceeding five thousand nor less than five hundred
dollars, to be assessed with reference to the degree of culpability of the proprietor or proprietors or common carriers liable,
or of their servants or agents, and recovered in an action of
tort, commenced within one year from the injury causing the
death, by the executor or administrator of the deceased person,
for the use of the widow and children of the deceased, in equal
moieties; or, if there are no children, to the use of the widow;
or, if no widow, to the use of the next of kin."
The tort here complained of is a marine tort, and, therefore,
cognizable by a court of Admiralty. So also is the breach of
contract between the carrier and the passenger the breach of a
maritime contract. Chamberlainv. Chandler, 3 Mason, 242;
The Cityof Brusssle, 6 Ben. 370; Skerock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99.
Upon either basis, therefore, the statute providing for recovery can be relied on and enforced.

BUTLER v. BOSTON STEAMSHIP CO.
Argument for Appellants.

Courts of Admiralty enforce other statutes in respect to
matters which are maritime, and as such come within the
admiralty jurisdiction; and no reason is perceived why statutes of the kind here relied upon should not likewise be enforced by those courts.
Familiar illustrations of this are the cases of state statutes
in favor of material men, and for pilotage: The Lottawanna,
21 Wall. 558; The America, 1 Lowell, 176; The California,1
Sawyer, 463; The Glenearne, 7 Fed. Rep. 604. See also The
Shady Side, The Morrisania,23 Fed. IRep. 731; TWoodruf v. One
Covered Scow, 30 Fed. Rep. 269; The Craigendoran,31 Fed.
Rep. 87; and statutes of the United States for tonnage dues,
The George T. emp, 2 Lowell, 485; and the case of the
common law lien of a shipwright, The B. F. Woolsey, 7 Fed.
Rep. 108; The Marion, 1 Story, 68; The JuliaL. Sherwood,
14 Fed. Rep. 590; The Two farys, 10 Fed. Rep. 919; S. C.
16 Fed. Rep. 697, which arise outside of the admiralty law
as much so as does a right or a remedy conferred by a statute,
but also come within the province of a court of Admiralty
to enforce.
But whatever may be regarded as the law touching the
operation of state statutes providing for recovery for loss of
life, when the disaster from which the death results occurs out
of the jurisdiction of the court, or where the defendant is not
an inhabitant of the State which enacted the statute, the only
question which arises here is, as to the application of a Massachusetts statute to an inhabitant of that State, and in respect
to a disaster which occurred within the limits of the State.
The Boston and Savannah Steamship Company is a Massachusetts corporation, and the disaster was within the limits of
that State, and that fact is averred by this company in the
tenth article of their libel, and the contract for carriage was
made at Boston, Mass. See Eeparte'fc-eill,13 Wall. 236;
Reynolds v. Crawfordsville Bank, 112 U. S. 405; Broderiek's
Will, 21 Wall. 503 ; Holland v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15 ; Holmes v.
0. & (. Railway, 5 Fed. Rep. 75; The Highland Zight, Chase,
Dec. 150; The Garland,5 Fed. Rep. 924; The E. B. Ward, Jr.,
17 Fed. Rep. 457; S. C. 23 Fed. Rep. 900 ; Armstrong v. Beadle,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

5 Sawyer, 484; In re Iong Island Transportation Co., 5 Fed.
Rep. 599; ffrebrik v. Carr, 29 Fed. Rep. 298; 1add v. Foster,
31 Fed. Rep. 827; .'tke -lanhasset, 18 Fed. Rep. 918; Oleson
v. The Ida Campbell, 34 Fed. Rep. 432; Sherlock v. Alling, 93
U. S. 99; Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall. 522; Dennick v.
Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 11; Buford v. Itolley, 28 Fed. Rep.
680; Lorman v. Clar'ke, 2 'McLean, 568; Robostelli v. New
York, New h1aven &e. Railroad, 34 Fed. Rep. 719; Ex parte
Gordon, 104 U. S. 515.
Since the decision of this court in The ilarrisburg,119 U. S.
199, it would seem that damages for loss of life cannot be recovered under the general maritime law independently of a
statutory provision.
The thirteenth article of the libel of Butler et al., and the
twenty-third article of the answer, petition and exceptions of
Butler et al., aver that the deceased suffered great mental and
bodily pain and misery; for which in both of the said pleadings damages are claimed. The proceedings in the cases at
bar are not wholly for loss of life.
The Supreme Court of New Hampshire, in a recent case
decided in March, 1888, but not yet reported in N. H. Reports,
Clark v. City of .anchester, has held that in death by drowning, an inference may always be drawn that the deceased
suffered pain both mental and physical, even if there be not
any evidence of the circumstances surrounding the death, and
especially if the water was stagnant, muddy or slimy. [Other
points were argued by counsel, which, in view of the opinion
of the court, have become unimportant.]
21r. Charles Theodore Rvussell, Jr., for appellee.
Mm.

JuST=,

BrADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

We will first consider the principal point taken in the cause
of damage, instituted by the appellants, to which the owners
of the steamship pleaded the pendency of the proceedings in
the cause of limited liability; and will then discuss the questions presented in both causes, and those which are peculiar to
the cause last named.

BUTLER v. BOSTON STEAMSHIP CO.
Opinion of the Court.

In the former cause the principal point raised was, that the
law of limited liability does not apply to personal injuries, and
hence that the appellants were not bound to litigate their
claim in the limited liability cause; but had a right to file a
separate and independent libel. The appellants in their brief
say :
"The single question thus presented is, whether the act
limiting the liability of ship-owners applies to damages for personal injury and damages for loss of life, and thus deprives
those entitled to damages of the right to entertain suit for recovery, provided that the ship-owner has taken appropriate
proceedings by libel or petition to limit his liability; in other
words, whether the said act extends to all damages for personal injury, and damages for loss of life."
It is virtually conceded that if the limited liability act
applies to damages for personal injury, and damages for loss
of life, the proceedings taken by the steamship company by
their libel for limited liability were a bar to the appellants'
action; and that the controversy between the parties should
have been settled in that cause. We shall, in the first place,
therefore, examine that question.
If we look at the ground of the law of limited responsibility
of ship-owners, we shall have no difficulty in reaching the conclusion that it covers the case of injuries to the person as well
as that of injuries to goods and merchandise. That ground is,
that for the encouragement of ship-building and the employment of ships in commerce, the owners shall not be liable beyond their interest in the ship and freight for the acts of the
master or crew done without their privity or knowledge. It
extends to liability for every kind of loss, damage and injury.
This is the language of the maritime law, and it is the language of our statute which virtually adopts that law. The
statute declares that "the liability of the owner of any vessel,
for any embezzlement, loss or destruction, by any person, of
any property, goods or merchandise, shipped or put on board
of such vessel, or for any loss, damage or injury by collision,
or for any act, matter, or thing, [loss,] damage or forfeiture,
done, occasioned or incurred, without the privity or knowledge

OCTOBER TERMK, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of such owner, or owners, shall in no case exceed the amount
or value of the interest of such owner in such vessel and
her freight then pending." (Rev. Stat. 4283. The word
"loss" in the statute of 1851 is printed " lost" in the Revised
Statutes, evidently by mistake.) This is the fundamental section of the law. On this section the whole provision turns.
And nothing can be more general or broad than its terms.
The "liability . . . shall in no case exceed," etc. It is the
liability not only for loss of goods, but for any injury by
collision, or for any act, matter, loss, damage or forfeiture
whatever, done or incurred.
Various attempts have been made to narrow the objects of
the statute, but without avail. It was first contended that it
did not apply to collisions. This pretence was disallowed by
the decision in .ANo'rwich Company v. lMright, 13 Wall. 104.
Next it was insisted that it did not extend to cases of loss by
fire. This point was overruled in the case of Providence &
New Y rk Steamship Co. v. Bill .alanf'g Co., 109 U. S.578.
Now it is contended that it does not extend to personal injuries as well as to injuries to property. If this position can be
maintained the value of the act, as an encouragement to
engage in the shipping business, will be very essentially impaired. The carriage of passengers in connection with merchandise is so common on the great highway between the old
and new continents at the present day, that a law of limited
liability, which should protect ship-owners in regard to injuries to goods and not in regard to injuries to passengers, would
be of very little service in cases .which would call for its application,
The section of the law which follows the main section in the
original act, namely, § 4 of the act of 1851, (constituting the
two sections of 4284 and 4285 of the Revised Statutes,) has
been referred to for the purpose of showing that the legislature had in view injuries to property only. That section provides that if there are several owners of merchandise damaged
or lost on the voyage, and the value of the ship and freight is
not sufficient to pay them all, the proceeds shall be divided
pro rata between them, and gives to either party the right to

BUTLER v. BOSTON STEAAfSHIP CO.
Opinion of the Court.

take the proper proceedings in court to procure distribution to
be made. The section is an appendix to the principal section
which limits the liability, and is added to it for the purpose of
enabling the parties interested to carry out and secure the
objects of the statute in the most equitable manner. It has
respect to the legal proceedings to be had for carrying the act
into effect. It prescribes the rule, namely, pro r.ata distribution. Mention is only made, it is true, of owners of property
lost or injured; but surely that cannot have the effect of d6ing
away with the broad and general terms of the principal enactment, stated with such precision and absence of reserve. It is
more reasonable to interpret the fourth section as merely instancing the owners of lost property for the purpose of illustrating how the proceeds of the ship and freight are to be distributed, in case of their being insufficient to pay all parties
sustaining loss. The observations of Chief Justice Durfee, in
delivering the opinion of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island,
in the case of Rounds v. P'ov. & Stonington Steamship Co.,
14 R. I. 344, 347, seem to us very sensible and to the point.
That was a case of injury to the person. The Chief Justice
says: "There would be no doubt upon this point were it not
for the next two sections, which make provision for the procedure for giving effect to the limitation. These sections, if
we look only to the letter, apply only to injuries and losses of
property. The question is, therefore, whether we shall by
construction bring the three sections into correspondence by
confining the scope of § 4283 to injuries and losses of property,
or by enlarging the scope of the two other sections so as to
include injuries to the person. We think it is more reasonable
to suppose that the designation of losses and injuries in §§ 4284
and 4285 is imperfect, a part being mentioned representatively
for the whole, and consequently that those sections were intended to extend to injuries to the person as well as to injuries to property, than it is to suppose that § 4283 was intended
to extend only to the latter class of injuries, and was inadvertently couched in words of broader meaning. The probable
purpose was to put American ship-owners on an equality with
foreign ship-owners in this regard, and in the great maritime

OCTOBER TERMN, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

countries of England and France the limitation of liability extends to personal as well as to property injuries and losses."
We may also refer to the opinion of Judge Benedict in the
case of The E.psilon, 6 Ben. 378, as containing a very full and
able discussion of the question. It was the first decision made
upon this particular subject.
We have no hesitation in saying that the limitation of liability to the value of the ship and freight is general; and that
when the proceeds of the latter are insufficient to pay the
entire loss, the object of the fourth section of the old law (the
4284th of the Revised Statutes) is mainly to prescribe a pro
Pata distribution amongst the parties who have sustained loss
or damage. We think that the law of limited liability applies
to cases of personal injury and death as well as to cases of loss
of or injury to property.
This conclusion is decisive of the controversy arising on the
libel of the appellants. For if the law applies to the case of
personal injuries, it was then the duty of the libellants to have
appeared in the cause of limited liability instituted by the
owners of the vessel, and to have contested there the question
whether; in the particular case, the owners were or were not
entitled to the benefit of the law. Had the action of the appellants been first commenced, it would have been suspended
by the institution of the limited liability proceedings; and the
very object of those proceedings was, not only to stop the
prosecution of actions already commenced, but to prevent
other suits from being brought. Allegations that the owners
themselves were in fault cannot affect the jurisdiction of the
court to entertain a cause of limited liability, for that is one
of the principal issues to be tried in such a cause. The beneficent object of the law in enabling the ship-owner to bring all
parties into concourse who have claims arising out of the disaster or loss, and thus to prevent a multiplicity of actions, and
to adjust the liability to the value of the ship and freight, has
been commented on in several cases that have come before this
court, notably in the cases of Yrwick Company v. IF,ight,
13 Wall. 10-4, and Providence and 117wei York Sfeamship Co.
v. 11I1fanf'g Co., 109 U. S. 578. It is unnecessary to enter
again upon the discussion here.

BUTLER v. BOSTON STEA2SNIP CO.
Opinion of the Court.

It is contended, however, that the act of February 28, 1871,
entitled "An act to provide for the better security of life on
board of vessels propelled in whole or in part by steam, and
for other purposes," 16 Stat. 440, supersedes or displaces the
proceeding for limited liability in cases arising under its provisions. We do not see the necessity of drawing any such
conclusion. The act itself contains no provision of the kind.
It requires certain precautions to be taken by owners of coasting steam-vessels and those engaged in navigating them to
avoid as far as possible danger to the lives of passengers.
Amongst other things, by the 51st section of the act, (Rev.
Stat. § 4401,) it is provided that all coast-wise sea-going steam
vessels "shall, when under way, except on the high seas, be
under the control and direction of pilots licensed by the
inspectors of steamboats." By the 43d section (Rev. Stat.
§ 4493) it is declared that whenever damage is sustained by a
passenger or his baggage, the master and owner, or either of
them, and the vessel, shall be liable to the full amount of damage if it happens through any neglect or failure to comply
with the provisions of the act, or through known defects, etc.
This is only declaring in the particular case, what is true in
all, that if the injury or loss occurs through the fault of the
owner, he will be personally liable, and cannot have the benefit
of limited liability. But it does not alter the course of proceeding if the claim of limited liability is set up by the owner.
If, in those proceedings, it should appear that the disaster did
happen with his privity or knowledge, or, perhaps, if it should
appear that the requirements of the steamboat inspection law
were not complied with by him, he would not obtain a decree
for limited liability; that is all. We say "perhaps," for it has
never yet been decided, at least by this court, that the owner
cannot claim the benefit of limited liability wheih a disas3ter
happens to a coast-wise steamer without his fault, privity, or
knowledge, even though some of the requirements of the steamboat inspection law may not have been complied with. The
act of Congress, passed June 26, 1884, entitled "An act to remove certain burdens on the American merchant marine," etc.,
23 Stat. 53, c. 121, has a section (§ 18) which seems to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

been intended as explanatory of the intent of Congress in this
class of legislation. It declares that the individual liability of
a ship-owner shall be limited to the proportion of any or all
debts and liabilities that his individual share of the vessel bears
to the whole; and the aggregate liabilities of all the owners
of a vessel on account of the same shall not exceed the value
of such vessel and freight pending. The language is somewhat vague, it is true; but it is possible that it was intended
to remove all doubts of the application of the limited liability
law to all cases of loss and injury caused without the privity
or knowledge of the owner. But it is unnecessary to decide
this point in the present case. The pendency of the proceedings in the limited liability cause was a sufficient answer to
the libel of the appellants.
The question then arises whether the defence made by the
appellants in the cause of limited liability instituted by the
owners of the steamship is a good defence as set forth in the
pleadings and the agreed statement of facts. The main allegation relied on by the appellants to bring the case within the
steamboat inspection law is, that the second mate was in
charge of the vessel at the time of the accident, and that he
was not a licensed pilot. The libellant owners deny this, and
claim that it is immaterial if true. There is no proof on the
subject. But suppose it were admitted to be true, how could
the owners have prevented the second mate from being in
charge? By virtue of his office and the rules of maritime law,
the captain or master has charge of the ship and of the selection and employment of the crew, and it was his duty, and
not that of the owners, to see that a competent and duly quali-fled officer was in actual charge of the steamer when not on
the high seas. It is not alleged that the captain himself and
the first mate were not regularly licensed pilots. They usually
are such on all sea-going steamers; and in the absence of any
allegation to the contrary, it will be presumed that they were
so licensed.
The other allegations, "that there was not proper apparatus
on the vessel for launching the boats," and "that the ship was
not properly constructed in respect to her bulkheads and other

BUTLER v. BOSTON STEAMNSHIP CO.
Opinion of the Court.

wise," are too vague and indefinite to form the basis of a judgment. Besides, these allegations are denied, and no proof was
offered on the subject.
The several allegations that the disaster was owing to the
unfitness, gross negligence, or carelessness of the servants or
agents of the steamship company, who were engaged in navigating the ship at the time of the disaster, which allegations
were made for the purpose of showing that the case came
within the Massachusetts statute were also denied, and not
sustained by any proof. The bearing and effect of that law,
however, are proper to be more fully considered.
We have decided in the case of The Harrisburg,119 U. S.
199, that no damages can be recovered by a suit in admiralty
for the death of a human being on the high seas or on waters
navigable from the seas, caused by negligence, in the absence
of an act of Congress, or a statute of a State, giving a right of
action therefor. The maritime law, of this country at least,
gives no such right. We have thus far assumed that such
damages may be recovered under the statute of Massachusetts
in a case arising in the place where the stranding of the City
of Columbus took place, within a few rods'of the shore of one
of the counties of that commonwealth; and have also assumed
that the law of limited liability is applicable to that place. Of
the latter proposition we entertain no doubt. The law of
limited liability, as we have frequently had occasion to assert,
was enacted by Congress as a part of the maritime law of this
country, and therefore it is co-extensive, in its operation, with
the whole territorial domain of that law. l.Yorwich Co. v.
Wright, 13 Wall. 104, 127; The Lottawana, 21 Wall. 558,
577; The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24, 29, 31; Providence & lVew
Yorks Steamshi Co. v. Hill Mfan'f'g Co., 109 U. S. 578, 593.
In The JLottawana we said: "It cannot be supposed that the
framers of the Constitution contemplated that the law should
forever remain unalterable. Congress undoubtedly has authority under the commercial power, if no other, to introduce
such changes as are likely to be needed." (p. 577.) Again,
on page 575, speaking of the maritime jurisdiction referred to
in the Constitution, and the system of law to be administered

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

thereby, it was said: "The Constitution must have referred to
a system of law coextensive with, and operating uniformly in,
the whole country. It certainly could not have been the intention to place the rules and limits of maritime law under the
disposal and regulation of the several States, as that would
have defeated the uniformity and consistency at which the
Constitution aimed on all subjects of a commercial character
affecting the intercourse of the States with each other or with
foreign States." In Tue Scotland this language was used: "But
it is enough to say, that the rule of limited responsibility is
now our maritime rule. It is the rule by which, through the
act of Congress, we have announced that we propose to administer justice in maritime cases." (p. 31.) Again, in the
same case, p. 29, we said: "But, whilst the rule adopted by
Congress is the same as the rule of the general maritime law,
its efficacy as a rule depends upon the statute, and not upon
any inherent force of the maritime law. As explained in The
.Lottawiana, . . . the maritime law is only so far operative as
law in any country as it is adopted by the laws and usages of
that country; and this particular rule of the maritime law had
never been adopted in this country until it was enacted by
statute. Therefore, whilst it is now a part of our maritime
law, it is, nevertheless, statute law." And in Pj'ovidence &
_Yew Y -k Steamship Co. v. Hill .fanf'g Co., it was said:
"The rule of limited liability prescribed by the act of 1S51 is
nothing more than the old maritime rule, administered in
courts of Admiralty in all countries except England, from
time immemorial; and if this were not so, the subject matter
itself is one that belongs to the department of maritime law."
(p. 593.)
These quotations are believed to express the general, if not
unanimous, views of the members of this court for nearly
twenty years past; and they leave us in no doubt that, whilst
the general maritime law, with slight modifications, is accepted
as law in this country, it is subject to such amendments as
Congress may see fit to adopt. One of the modifications of
the maritime law, as received here, was a rejection of the law
of limited liability. We have rectified that. Congress has

BUTLER v. BOSTON STEAMSHIP CO.
Opinion of the Court.

restored that article to our maritime code. We cannot doubt
its power to do this. As the Constitution extends the judicial
power of the United States to "all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction," and as this jurisdiction is held to be
exclusive, the power of legislation on the same subject must
necessarily be in the national legislature, and not in the state
legislatures. It is true, we have held that the boundaries and
limits of the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction are matters
of judicial cognizance, and cannot be affected or controlled by
legislation, whether state or national. Chief Justice Taney,
in The St. Lawrence, 1 Black, 522, 526, 527; The Lottawana,
21 Wall. 558, 575, 576. But within these boundaries and limits
the law itself is that which has always been received as maritime law in this country, with such amendments and modifications as Congress may from time to time have adopted.
It being clear, then, that the law of limited liability of shipowners is a part of our maritime code, the extent of its territorial operation (as before intimated) cannot be doubtful. It is
necessarily coextensive with that of the general admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, and that by the settled law of this
country extends wherever public navigation extends -on
the
sea and the great inland lakes, and the navigable waters connecting therewith. Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441; The Genesee Chief v. Fitzhugh, 12 How. 443; Jackson v. The Magnolia,
20 How. 296; Commercial Tran. portation Co. v. Fitzhugh, 1
Black, 574.
The present case, therefore, is clearly within the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction.
The stranding of the City of
Columbus took place on Devil's Bridge, on the north side
of and near Gay Head, at the west end of Martha's Vineyard,
just where Vineyard Sound opens into the main sea. Though
within a few rods of the island (which is a county of Massachusetts) and within the jaws of the headland, it was on the
navigable waters of the United States, and no state legislation
can prevent the full operation of the maritime law on those
waters.
It is unnecessary to consider the force and effect of the statute of Massachusetts over the place in question. Whatever

OCTOBER TER-M, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

force it may have in creating liabilities for acts done there, it
cannot neutralize or affect the admiralty or maritime jurisdiction or the operation of the maritime law in maritime cases.
Those are matters of national interest. If the territory of the
state technically extends a marine league beyond the seashore,
that circumstance cannot circumscribe or abridge the law of
the sea. Not only is that law the common right of the people
of the United States, but the national legislature has regulated
the subject, in greater or less degree, by the passage of the
navigation laws, the steamboat inspection laws, the limited
liability act, and other laws. We have no hesitation, therefore, in saying that the limited liability act applies to the
present case, notwithstanding the disaster happened within
the technical limits of a county of Massachusetts, and notwithstanding the liability itself may have arisen from a state
law. It might be a much more serious question, whether a
state law can have force to create a liability in a maritime
case at all, within the dominion of the admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, where neither the general maritime law nor an
act of Congress has created such a liability. On this subject
we prefer not to express an opinion.
The question relating to the, insurance money received for
the loss of the ship and freight has already been settled by
our decision in the case of The City of .Norwich, 118 U. S.
468, and requires no further discussion here. This case is
governed by that, so far as the claim to the insurance money
is concerned.
The decrees in both cases are affirmed

