OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

to the defendant for the amount, bearing ten per cent interest,
and pay-vouchers for the same amount were placed in the
hands of the defendant. The money lent by the defendant
to Squier & Co., for which the notes were given, was to be
invested in vouchers which were to be bought at a rate to net
in the way of discount the profit designated in the agreement;
but that profit was not intended to be a profit to the defendant, in addition to the ten per cent interest, for it was expressly
provided that all moneys which might be collected by the
defendant on the vouchers, or received by him, should be
credited to Squier & Co. on the notes. This compelled a
credit to Squier & Co. on the principal of the notes, of all
the monthly sums paid by Squier & Co. to the defendant, and
called "profits," over and above the amount necessary to pay
to him ten per cent interest on the aggregate amount of his
loans; and the practical construction of the agreement by the
parties.was to the same effect, because the testimony of Edmonds shows that he had various settlements from time to
time with Squier, in which prior notes that he had received
from Squier for loans were surrendered to Squier, on the ground
that they had been extinguished by the surplus of the monthly
payments by Squier, over and above the amount necessary to
pay to the defendant interest at ten per cent on the moneys
which he had lent to Squier. It was lawful to stipulate in
writing for interest at ten per cent. Rev. Stat. District of
Columbia, ยง 714.

Decree afirmed.
CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY v. SEASONGOOD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 224.

Argued March 21, April 1,1889.-Decided April 15,1889.

An appeal prayed and granted in a Circuit Court "of this cause to the
Supreme Court" brings the whole case here, including orders previously
made in it.
A party to a decree in a state court in a matter subject to its jurisdiction

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. SEASONGOOD.
Statement of the Case.
cannot attack it collaterally in a suit commenced in a Circuit Court of
the United States after the jurisdiction of the state court had attached.
It is immaterial whether the receiver's certificates, which are in controversy in this suit were properly issued to the appellee, for the reason
that: (1) it is apparent that the order of the state court under which
they were issued was the result of an agreement between the parties to
this suit; and (2) if they should be held to be invalid the appellee
could not be restored to the rights under the decree of the state court
which he surrendered for them.

THE case, as stated by the court in its opinion, was as follows:
The principal questions upon this appeal arise out of an
order directing the receiver in this cause to issue to certain
parties his certificate of indebtedness for the amount of claims
held by them against the property of which he was directed
to take possession. The history of those claims and the circumstances under which the above order was made will appear
from the following statement:
Jacob Seasongood, Lewis Seasongood, and Bernard G. Stall,
by written agreement, made August 29, 1876, bargained and
sold to the Miami Valley Narrow Gauge Railway Company,
(whose name was afterwards changed to the Miami Valley
Railway Company,) for the purpose of its roadway, three adjoining lots in the city of Cincinnati, Ohio, for the sum of
$18,500, of which $2000 were agreed to be paid in thirty days,
and $16,500, at the end of ten years, the latter sum to bear
interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum, payable
quarterly. The company also agreed to pay the taxes and
assessments on the property. The vendors retained the legal
title, but bound themselves to convey the premises, upon the
performance by the vendee on its part of the agreement of
purchase. The company was put into immediate possession,
and proceeded to construct its road over the lots.
On the 1st of November, 1876, it mortgaged the road, its
property and franchises to secure bonds aggregating $500,000.
In an action brought in the Court of Commons Pleas of
Warren County, Ohio, that mortgage was foreclosed, and the
mortgaged property sold. The title ultimately passed to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Cincinnati Northern Railway Company, a corporation created
under the laws of Ohio, with authority to construct and
operate a railroad from Cincinnati through the counties of
Hamilton, Butler and Warren to Waynesville in the latter
county. That company, by mortgage in the nature of a trust
deed, executed November 17, 1880, conveyed its property
rights and franchises to the present appellant, as trustee, to
secure bonds aggregating $1,000,000.
By a decree 'rendered by the Superior Court of Cincinnati,
at general term, in an action brought May 2, 1881, by Jacob
Seasongood, Lewis Seasongood and Bernard G. Stall against
the Miami Valley Railway Company, the Cincinnati Northern
Railway Company, the trustees in the mortgage of November
1, 1876, the Central Trust Company, (the trustee in the mortgage of November 17, 1880,) and others, it was found that
there was due to the plaintiffs in that action, under the above
agreement with the Miami Valley Railway Company, for
interest and taxes, the sum of $7806.22; and it was adjudged
that for the payment of the above sum, with interest, together
with the balance of the principal sum, "the plaintiffs have the
first and best lien upon the lots of land described in said
agreement;" that unless such sum, and the costs of the action,
were paid within ninety days, the master "shall, after the
court has ascertained and determined the dimension and location of so much of the lots of land aforesaid as are not needed
for the railroad, cause such portions of said lots as he shall find
as aforesaid to be unnecessary for the railroad, to be appraised
and advertised, and sold upon execution at law;" and that,
"in the event that the sum realized from the sale of the portions of the lots of land aforesaid shall be insufficient to pay
the sum of money and interest and costs last aforesaid, the
entire railway, as owned and operated by the said Cincinnati
Northern Railway Company, shall be sold as an entirety."
To this decree the Cincinnati Northern Railway Company and
the Central Trust Company excepted, the latter corporation
tendering its bill of exceptions, which was signed, sealed, and
made part of the record.
By a further decree rendered October 3, 1883, the court

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. SEASONGOOD.
Statement of the Case.

found that certain portions of the lots, described by metes and
bounds, were not necessary for the roadway of the Cincinnati
Northern Railway Company, and ordered them to be appraised
and sold separately, and if they did not sell for enough to pay
the above judgment, interest and costs, then to sell the road as
theretofore ordered. To that decree the defendants also
excepted.
The present suit was instituted in the Circuit Court of the
United States, by the Central Trust Company of New York,
on the 11th day of August, 1883, (the day after it filed its
answer in the above suit in the Superior Court of Cincinnati,)
against the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad Company,
the Cincinnati Northern Railway Company, the Spring Grove,
Avondale and Cincinnati Railway Company, and Grenville D.
Braman. The bill set out the above mortgage or deed of trust
of November 17, 1880; the lease by the Cincinnati Northern
Railway Company for the term of ninety-nine years of the
tracks, road-bed, rights of way, property, franchises, etc., of the
Spring Grove, Avondale and Cincinnati Railway Company,
and the mortgage executed May 25, 1881, by the Cincinnati
Northern Railway Company to the Central Trust Company,
of its property, rights, and franchises, for the payment of
$1,000,000 of bonds theretofore issued by the Spring Grove,
Avondale and Cincinnati Railway Company, secured on its
road, the lien of the latter mortgage to be second only to that
of the mortgage of November 17, 1880; a mortgage by the
Cincinnati Northern Railway Company, of May 25, 1881, to
the same trustee, of its property, rights and franchises, to
secure an issue of $1,000,000 of income bonds, payable out of
the net earnings of the last-named railway company; and the
consolidation of the above railroad companies under the name
of the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad Company, and
the assumption by the consolidated company of the debts
secured by each of said mortgages.
The prayer of the bill was, that all of said mortgaged
property be sold, the proceeds to be applied to the payment
of the bonds and coupons secured by the first of the above
mortgages, and the balance, if any, to be paid to the Cen-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

tral Trust Company, for the holders of bonds secured by the
second and third mortgages; and that until such sale was had,
a receiver be appointed of all the property and premises
embraced by the first mortgage, with power to maintain and
operate the Cincinnati Northern Railway, including the road
leased from the Spring Grove, Avondale and Cincinnati Railway Company, to collect rents, etc.
Upon the motion of the Central Trust Company, an order
was passed, October 20, 1883, appointing a receiver, who was
directed to take possession, maintain and operate the Cincinnati
Northern Railway, forty-two miles in length, constructed and
to be constructed, and also the Spring Grove, Avondale and
Cincinnati Railway Company.
On the 8th of December, 1883, the following order was made
by the Circuit Court in this cause:
"It appearing to the court that the Superior Court of
Cincinnati, in general term, in cause No. 2350, wherein Jacob
Seasongood, Louis Seasongood and Bernard G. Stall are plaintiffs and the Central Trust Company of New York and others
are defendants, has found that certain real estate belonging to
said plaintiffs, situate in the city of Cincinnati, Ohio, and being
lots 13, 14 and 15 of S. Kemper's subdivision, in section 7,
town. 3, fractional range 2, Miami purchase, is occupied by
the Cincinnati Northern Railway Company under an agreement entered into between said plaintiffs and the Miami Valley
Narrow Gauge Railway Company, the predecessors of the
said The Cincinnati Northern Railway Company, and that
there is due to said plaintiffs thereon the sum of seventy-eight
hundred and six and - ($7806.22) dollars, with interest on
the same from the 29th day of May, 1883, and that said
plaintiffs are entitled to be paid on the 29th day of August,
1886, under said agreement, the further sum of sixteen thousand five hundred ($16,500.00) dollars, with interest thereon
at the rate of seven per cent per annum, payable quarterly,
from the 29th day of May, 1883, and all taxes they may be
required to pay in the mean time; and it further appearing
to this court that said Superior Court of Cincinnati has adjudged and decreed that said plaintiffs have a first and prior

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. SEASOGOOD.
Statement of the Case.

lien on said lots for the payment of said sums so found to be
owing to them, and has ordered that in the event of so much
of said lots as may not be necessary for the purposes of said
railway company being sold and proving insufficient to pay
said claims, then that the whole of said railway be sold to
pay the same; and it further appearing to this court that the
portion of said lots not necessary for the purposes of said railway are insufficient to pay said claims, and that an order of
sale has been issued by said Superior Court directing the appraisement and sale of the whole of said railway, and that
said parties are proceeding to bring the same to sale in pursuance thereof; and it further appearing to the court that such
sale would be contrary to the best interests of all concerned,
and that it is necessary to the operation of said road by the
receiver heretofore appointed herein that said proceedings to
sell should be stopped; and it further appearing to the court
that said parties are willing to have so much of said lots as
are not necessary for railroad purposes sold by the master
commissioner appointed by said Superior Court in said cause,
and the proceeds arising therefrom credited upon the certificate
of indebtedness hereinafter provided to be issued to them, and
to accept as full satisfaction of all their remaining rights, under
said decree (and enter satisfaction of the same and convey said
right of way to said railway) certificates of indebtedness, to be
issued by the receiver herein, bearing interest at the rate of six
(6) per cent per annum and payable when the said railroad
shall be sold by the order of this court herein, unless sooner
paid out of the earnings from the operation of said road or
otherwise, as the court may order, provided the same be made
a first lien upon said road, except only such other certificates
as the court may find it necessary to issue, with all which they
shall be of equal priority:
"1Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises, it is
ordered by the court that the master commissioner in said
case in said Superior Court be authorized to proceed and sell
under his order said outlying strips which were found not to
be necessary for said right of way, and, after paying the costs
of said action and taxes, to apply the balance of the purchase

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

money on said certificate and pay the same to said Seasongoods
and Stall.
"And by agreement it is ordered that in the event that
said case in said Superior Court shall be taken to the Supreme
Court of Ohio by motion for leave to file within thirty (30)
days, and leave shall be granted and bond given, then said
certificate to be returned.
"INothingherein contained shall prejudice the right of defendant to prosecute a proceeding in error in the Supreme
Court of Ohio within said thirty (30) days.
"And it is ordered by the court that W. J. Craig, receiver
herein, be, and he hereby is, authorized and directed to issue
to said Jacob Seasongood, Louis Seasongood and'Bernard G.
Stall his certificate of indebtedness in the sum of twenty-five
thousand one hundred and seventy-six and -%Q0($25,176.20)
dollars, that being the total amount of the said claims on this
8th day of December, 1883, and bearing interest at the rate
of six per cent (6) per annum from date and payable on or
before one year after date to the order of said parties, said
certificate to be equal in priority vith all other certificates
that may be issued herein, but to be prior to all other liens
and to be paid first upon sale of this road, and the same to
deliver to said parties upon the entering by them of satisfaction of all their claims under said judgment and decree in said
Superior Court, and the execution and delivery by them of a
proper deed of conveyance of said lots to said Cincinnati
Northern Railway Company; and it is further ordered that
upon the consummation thereof the said The Cincinnati Northern Railway Company shall stand subrogated to all the rights
the said parties had against the said The Miami Valley Narrow
Gauge Railway Company and the stockholders thereof."
Jacob Seasongood having died, the court, by an order made
February 12, 1884, directed the receiver to issue the certificate
provided for in the previous order to Louis Seasongood and
Bernard G. Stall, survivors, "upon the same terms and conditions named in said original order."
On the 20th of November, 1885, the following order was
made:

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. SEASONGOOD.
Statement of the Case.

"It appearing to the court from the report of the master
commissioner of the sale of the Cincinnati Northern Railroad
that there are sufficient of the proceeds of said road to pay
the full amount of the claim of J. and L. Seasongood and
Stall and interest, for which a receiver's certificate was issued
to Lewis Seasongood and B. G. Stall, survivors of Jacob Seasongood, after paying all other certificates of the receiver of
said Cincinnati Northern Railroad Company; that said money
remains unpaid; that since said decree ordering said certificate
to be issued said B. G. Stall and said Jacob Seasongood have
died, leaving said Lewis Seasongood the sole survivor; that
the certificate was issued to Lewis Seasongood and B. G. Stall
as survivors after the death of said Jacob Seasongood, and
that out of the proceeds of sale of said outlying strips of land
on July 8th, 1884, there was paid to said Lewis Seasongood
and B. G. Stall, survivors, the sum of $525.33, which is all
that was left after paying the costs of said action in the Superior Court of Cincinnati and some taxes on said strips, which
should be credited as of that date upon said certificate, which
leaves a balance, with interest computed to November 12th,
1885, of $27,562.90 due and owing on said decree:
"It is therefore ordered by the court that the purchasers
of said railroad pay to the clerk of this court said sum of
$27,562.90, with interest from November 12th, 1885, until
paid, and that said clerk pay forthwith to said Lewis Seasongood, survivor, said sum of $27,562.90, and until so paid he is
entitled to and shall be paid by said clerk 6 per cent interest
thereon from November 12th, 1885.
"It appears further to this court that said case in said Superior Court of Cincinnati was not carried to the Supreme Court
of Ohio.
"Thereupon the Central Trust Company, complainant, prays
an appeal in open court of this cause to the Supreme Court,
and this court grants the appeal and fixes the amount of
bond at double the amount of said claim and interest, to
wit, fifty-five thousand and five hundred dollars, which bond
shall operate as a supersedeas of this order and decree."
It appears from the record of the case in the Superior Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Citations for Appellees.

of Cincinnati that the parts of the lots, ascertained not to be
necessary for the roadway, were sold by the commissioner of
that court, one bringing $861 and the other $201, and that
the sale was confirmed June 17, 1884.
On the 29th of 'March, 1884, a decree of foreclosure and sale
was entered in the court below, and pursuant thereto the Cincinnati Northern Railway was sold, on the 27th of June, 1885.
It brought the sum of $200,000, which was less than its value,
the purchasers being the bondholders represented by the Central Trust Company. It is stipulated by the parties that the
portion of the proceeds of the sale which by the order of
November 20, 1885, was directed to be paid to the appellees,
would otherwise go to the appellant.
Xr. Lauw'ence Maxwell, Jr., (with whom was XrA. -Mortimer
llatthews and .Abr. William .2 Ramsey on the brief,) for
appellant, cited: Dayton, Xenia & Be~fore railroadv. Zewton, 20 Ohio St. 401; Washington Railroad v. Bradleys, 10
Wall. 299; Ayres v. Carver, 17 How. 591; Ex parte Ralroad Company, 95 U. S. 221; Grant v. Phoenix Ins. Co., 106
U. S. 429; Crosby v. fchanan, 23 Wall. 420, 453.
Mr. 0. B. iatthews and Ar. J. A. Jordan, (with whom
was Mr. . X. Jordan on the brief,) for appellees, cited: Davis
v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203; Whitney v. Cook, 99 U. S. 607; Davies
v. Corbin, 113 U. S. 687; X,icas v. Williams, 104 U. S. 556;
The S. C. Tryon, 105 U. S. 267; Xiltenberger v. Logansort
Railway, 106 U. S. 286; Whiting v. Bank of the United
States, 13 Pet. 6; Perkins v. Fourniguet,6 How. 206; Beebe
v. Russell, 19 How. 283; Thompson v. Dean, 7 Wall. 342;
Stovall v. Banks, 10 Wall. 583; French v. Shoemaker, 12Wall.
86, 98; Railroad Co. v. Swasey, 23 Wall. 405; Green v. Fisk,
103 U. S. 518; Trustees v. Greenough, 105 U. S. 527; Porter
v. Bessemer Steel Co., 120 U. S. 649; fiWnns v. Isle of IWight
Railway Co., L. R. 8 Eq. 653; S. C. L. R. 5 Ch. 414; St. Germains v. Crystal Palace Railway Co., L. R. 11 Eq. 568;
Walker v. Wrare &c. Railway, 35 Beavan, 52; Winchester v.
.2fid Hants Railway, L. R. 5 Eq. 17; Allgood v. AMerybent

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. SEASONGOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

Railway, 33 Ch. D. 571; Ifeifer v. Sheboygan & Fond Du
1ac Railroad,18 Wis. 155; S. C. 86 Am. Dec. 761; Fies v.
South Penn. Railroad& Xining Co., 85 Penn. St. 73; Humpkreys v. Allen, 101 Illinois, 499; Langdon v. Vermont &
Canada Railroad, 53 Vermont, 228, 265; Union Tmust Co.
v. Illinois -Midland Jailway, 117 U. S. 434; Wallace v.
Loomis, 97 U. S. 146; Coe v. Columbus, Piqua &c. Railroad,
10 Ohio St. 372; S. C. 75 Am. Dec. 518; Blossom v. Milwaucee Railroad,1 Wall. 655; .MinnesotaCo. v. St. Paul Co.,
2 Wall. 609; Bvtterfleld v. Usher, 91 U. S. 246; Hinkley v.
Gilman &c. Railroad,94 U. S. 467; Sage v. Railroad Co., 96
U. S. 712; Hovey v. McDonald, 109 U. S. 150.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The motion of appellee to dismiss this appeal is denied. If,
as contended by him, the order of December 8, 1883, was one
from which an appeal would lie, the appeal prayed and
allowed on the 20th of November, 1885, would bring that
order before us; for, although the bond required by the court
was made to operate as a supersedeas only of the order of the
latter date, the appeal asked and granted was "of this cause,"
that is, of the whole cause as far as it had then progressed.
Conceding appellee's lien on the lots to be prior to its lien
on so much of the railroad as crossed those lots, the appellant
denies that appellee had a lien upon the entire road of the
Cincinnati Northern Railway Company. The proceeds of the
sale of the whole road, it is insisted, must be distributed between the appellant and the appellee, upon the basis of the
proportionate value of the parts upon which their respective liens rested; not, necessarily, the mathematical proportion
of the three hundred and twenty feet of the railroad covering
the lots in "question to the entire length of the road, forty-two
miles, but in the proportion of the fair value, all things considered, of the former to the latter. The precise mode of ascertaining this value was not suggested in the argument.
We are of opinion that the appellant is not in a condition
to raise the question just stated. It was a party to the suit
in the state court, the decree in which provided for a sale of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the entire road, in the event the sum found to be due the
present appellee was not paid by the sale of such parts of the
lots in question as were not needed for the railroad. That
decree, even if erroneous, was binding upon all the parties
to the suit in which it was rendered, until modified or reversed by the Supreme Court of Ohio. It was not open to
collateral attack by any of those parties in a separate suit
brought by them in the Circuit Court of the United States
after the jurisdiction of the state court attached. No order in
the former court could interfere with or suspend the sale which
the state court had directed to be made. The only way in
which such suspension could have been effected was by means
of an arrangement that would be satisfactory to the present
appellee, in whose behalf the state court had ordered a sale of
the entire road. The order made in the Circuit Court on the
8th of December, 1883, shows upon its face that that court
was informed as to the exact relation of the parties to the suit
in the state court. It declared, without objection by any of
the parties, that the sale then about to take place of the entire
road, under the Qrder of the state court, "would be contrary
to the best interests of all concerned," and that it was necessary to the operation of the road by the receiver of the Circuit
Court that the proceedings in the state court for a sale be
stopped. The mode adopted to effect that end is indicated
in the above order. We need not, however, stop to inquire
whether it was proper for the Circuit Court to issue receiver's
certificates for claims of the character of those held by the
appellee. Upon that subject we express no opinion. We are
relieved of any duty to consider that question, because it is
apparent that the order of December 8, 1883, was the result
of an agreement or arrangement between the appellee and tle
Central Trust Company, - the latter representing in this cause
the holders of bonds secured by the mortgage of November
17, 1880,- and also because of the surrender by the appellee,
in consideration of the receiver's certificate for the amount of
his claims, of the rights accorded to him by the decree in the
state court. The appellee cannot be restored to his rights
under the decree of the state court, and it would be inequitable

HASSAIL v. WILCOX.
Syllabus.

to permit the appellant, representing those who purchased the
property under the decree of the Circuit Court, now to raise
any question as to the validity of the receiver's certificates,
which it agreed might be issued to the appellee. It remained
quiet for nearly two years, and until after the property had
been sold, and after the sale had been confirmed to those it
represented, before making an issue as to the propriety or
validity of the order of December 8, 1883. The bondholders
are concluded, under the circumstances disclosed in the record,
by what their representative did, or assented to being done, in
order to induce the appellee to surrender the rights secured by
the judgment of the state court.

The &doree
of the Circuit Court is aflrmed.

HASSALL v. WILCOX.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 68.

Argued April 2, 3,1889.-Decided April 22, 1889.

A statute of Texas, passed in 1879, gave a lien for wages to mechanics and
laborers, on a railroad, prior to all other liens, and authorized its enforcement, in a suit, by a judgment for the sale of the railroad, and provided
that it should not be necessary to make other lien-holders defendants,
but that they might intervene and become parties. It did not provide
for any notice by publication. In 1882, a railroad in Texas was mortgaged to secure bonds. In 1884, a creditor of the railroad company holding such labor claims, in a suit against it alone, in a court of the State,
obtained a judgment for his claim and lien, and for the sale of the railroad. In a suit afterwards brought by a bondholder, in the Circuit Court
of the United States, to have the rights of the creditors of the company
ascertained, and a receiver appointed, it was referred to a master to report on the priority of claims. The creditor by judgment presented his
claim; it was objected to by the bondholder as fraudulent and embracing amounts not covered by the statutory lien. The master reported that
the claim included amounts which were not a lien, as well as amounts
which were, but did not separate them; that the claim was a valid one
against the company, but that it was not a lien entitled to priority. The

