BROOK v. NORTHWESTERN FUEL CO.
Statement of the Case.

to be retained by clerks of the District Courts in Utah, for
personal compensation, than is by the provisions of chapter
16 of the title mentioned prescribed to be allowed to be
retained by the clerks of the District Courts named in ยง
839, for personal compensation. Section 1883 is in the same
language in both editions of the Revised Statutes, but, in the
2d edition, a marginal reference is made to ยง 7 of the act
of June 23d, 1874, hereinbefore quoted, passed after the Revised
Statutes were enacted.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territoryof Utah
is reversed, and the case is remanded to that court, with a
direction to reverse thejudgment of the Third JudicialDistrict Court of the Territory of Utah, dismissing the com_plaint, and to take such further proceedings as may be
conformable to lalw and not inconsistent with the opinion
of this court.
MRfi. CHrIEF JUSTICE FULLER was not a member of the court
when this case was argued, and took no part in its decision.

BROOK v. NORTHWESTERN FUEL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 210.

Argued and submitted March 19, 1889.-Decided April 8,1889.

When it does not appear, affirmatively, from the record that the Circuit
Court had jurisdiction, the judgment below will be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with law.

THE Northwestern Fuel Company, a Minnesota corporation,
brought this action, February 18, 1882, to recover from the
plaintiffs in error, citizens of Iowa, the sum of $1309.50, alleged
to be due under a written contract, made July 21, 1881, between
the latter and the What Oheer Land and Coal Company, .a
-corporation alleged to be "doing business in the State of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Iowa;" the benefits of which contract were assigned by that
company to the plaintiff. The contract related to coal to be
-mined by the What Cheer Land and Coal Company at its
mine in Iowa, and which Brock & Co. agreed to receive and
pay for at certain specified rates. The defendants, Brock and
M cKenzie, in their answer, asserted a counter claim of $20,000
against the plaintiff. There was a verdict against the defendants for $1402.47. The case was brought here for review
in respect to numerous errors of law alleged to have been
committed by the. court below, to the prejudice of the
defendants.
M9,. Charles A.

larTk for plaintiffs in error.

.M1r. C. D. O'Brien submitted for defendant in error.
Mit. JusTIcE HARLAN stated the case as above reported and
delivered the opinion of the court.

-

The act of 1875 declares that no Circuit or District Court
shall have "cognizance of any suit founded on contract in
favor of an assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted
in such court to recover thereon if no assignment had been
made, except in cases of promissory notes negotiable by the
law merchant and bills of exchange." 18 Stat. 470. It does
not appear that the What Cheer Land and Coal Company,
the plaintiffs' assignor, could have brought suit on the contract
in question, if no assignment had been made. The record does
not show of what State it is a corporation. The allegation
that it was "doing business in the State of Iowa" does not
necessarily import that it was created by the laws of that
State. But if that allegation were held sufficient to show it
was an Iowa corporation, the result would be the same, because, in that case, it would appear that the parties to the
original contract were all citizens of Iowa, and consequently
that the assignor, could not have sued the defendants in the
Circuit Court of the United States.
The judgment is reversed upon the ground that it does not

GON-SHAY-EE, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

appear, affirmatively, from the record that the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction, .fetealfv. latertown, 128 U. S. 588, and the
cause is remanded for further proceedings in accordance with
law.
Reversed.
GON-SHAY-EE, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 7. Original. Argued March 18, 1889.-Decided April 15, 1889.

The act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 385, c. 341, ยง 9, was enacted to transfer
to Territorial Courts, established by the United States, the jurisdiction to
try the crimes described in it (including the crime of murder), under
territorial laws, when sitting as and exercising the functions of a Territorial Court; and not when sitting as or exercising the functions of a
Circuit or District Court of the United States under Rev. Stat. ยง 1910.

PmnoN for a writ of habeas corpus. The case is stated in
the opinion of the court.
Mr. 1F -.
Phillvps and

-Lamarfor the petitioner.

Mr. Samuel Field

'. J. G. Zachry were with him on the brief.

-Mr. Solicitor General opposing.

MR. JusTicE MILL.ER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a petition for a writ of habeas corpus to be directed
to the marshal of the United States for the Territory of Arizona, who, it is alleged, holds the petitioner under a judgment
of the District Court of the United States for the Second
Judicial District of that Territory, which condemned him to
death for the crime of murder. This crime is alleged in .the
indictment to have been committed by the defendant, an
Apache Indian, within said district, naming no county or
other location.
The allegation of the petitioner is that the court which tried
him had not at that time, and in the mode of trial which was
pursued, any jurisdiction of the case against him. It is argued

