OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

cussed and commented on. There the question was between
"garden seeds" and "field seeds," and the decision depended
on the particular circumstances of the case. The opinion concludes with this declaration: "As this case rests for decision
on the facts found, it is not possible for this court to lay down
any general rules which will apply to cases differing in their
facts from this case." We regard our present decision as in
harmony with the decision in that case; and only refer to it
for the purpose of disclaiming any intention to dissent from it.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed,and the cause
remanded with instructions to order a new trial.

FRIEDLANDER v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRIOT OF TEXAS.
No. 236. Argued April 4, 5, 1889. -Decided

April 15, 1889.

A bill of lading, fraudulently issued by the station agent of a railroad company without receiving the goods named in it for transportation, but in
other respects according to the customary course of business, imposes
no liability upon the company to an innocent holder who receives it without knowledge or notice of the fraud and for a valuable consideration:
and this general rule is not affected in Texas by the statutes of that State.

THE court stated the case in its opinion as follows:
Friedlander & Co. brought suit in the District Court of
Texas, in and for the county of Galveston, against the Texas
and Pacific Railway Company, to recover for the non-delivery
of certain cotton named in an alleged bill of lading hereinafter
described, of which they claimed to be assignees for value,

their petition after counting upon said bill of lading, thus
continuing:

"That the said defendant, fraudulently contriving to avoid
its liability to these plaintiffs, pretends and alleges that the said
cotton was not so delivered as in and by said bill of lading is
recited and acknowledged, but that the said bill of lading was

FRIEDLANDER v. TEXAS &c. RAILWAY CO.

417

Statement of the Case.

executed without the receipt by its said agent of any of said
cotton, all of which said pretences on the part of the defendant, plaintiffs allege are untrue; but they say that even if it
be true that no cotton was delivered to said defendant as in
and by said bill of lading is recited and aclmowledged, yet is
the defendant estopped from setting up that fact in defence of
plaintiffs' cause of action upon said bill of lading, because these
plaintiffs say that the said bill of lading was executed in form
negotiable and transferable by indorsement under the usage
and customs of merchants, and that these plaintiffs, relying
upon the validity of said bill of lading in all respects and upon
the facts therein stated, that said cotton had been delivered to
said defendant as aforesaid, and that defendant had contracted
to carry and deliver said cotton as aforesaid, advanced to the
said Joseph Lahnstein and paid out upon his order and at his
request and in consideration of his said transfer of said bill of
lading to these plaintiffs the sum of eight thousand dollars on,
to wit, the 10th day of November, 1883, and that said payment was made and advanced upon the faith of the recitals
and effect of said bill of lading as a contract to deliver the
cotton therein mentioned as aforesaid, and that if the said cotton was never received by defendant, yet ought it to be held.
to the terms of the said bill of lading for the indemnification
of these plaintiffs for said payment, with interest thereon from
the date thereof, because of the fraud practised by the said
agent upon these plaintiffs in the issuance of said bill of
lading in the ordinary form and manner wherein he was
authorized by the defendant to act, and defendants are esstopped to deny that said cotton was received as against the
claims of these plaintiffs for damages on account of defendant's
failure to comply with said bill of lading to the extent of eight
thousand dollars, with interest thereon, at the rate of 8 per
cent per annum, from the date of payment thereof as aforesaid; and if it be true, as alleged, that defendant received said
cotton in said bill of lading mentioned, then plaintiffs claim of
defendant the full value thereof, to wit, the sum of fifteen
thousand dollars, with interest thereon from and after the 6th
day of December, 1883, when and before which time defendVOL. cxxx-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

ant should have delivered said cotton under said bill of lading,
according to the true intent and meaning thereof."
Defendant demurred, and also answered, denying "all and
singular the allegations in the petition contained."
The case
was subsequently removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Texas, whereupon by leave
the defendant amended its answer by adding these further
averments:
"That one E. D. Easton, on the 6th of November, 1883,
was the station agent of defendant at Sherman station, in
Grayson County, Texas, on the Eastern Division of defendant's line in Texas, and that as such agent he was authorized
to receive cotton and other freight for transportation and to
execute bills of lading for such cotton and other freight by
him received for the purpose of transportation by defendant.
"That on the said 6th day of November, 1883, the said
Easton, combining and confederating with one Joseph Lahnstein, did fraudulently and collusively sign a certain bill of lading purporting to be his act as agent of defendant, whereby he
falsely represented that defendant had received from the said
Joseph Lahnstein two hundred bales of cotton in apparent
good order, to be transported from Sherman to New Orleans,
La., and did deliver the said false bill of lading to the saidJoseph Lahnstein; and defendant says that in point of fact
the said bill of lading was executed by the said Easton fraudulently and collusively with the said Lahnstein without receiving any cotton for transportation, such as was represented in
said bill of lading, and without the expectation on the part of
the said Easton of receiving any such cotton; that the said
pretended bill of lading was the one that is set out in the petition of the plaintiffs, and was false, fraudulent and fictitious,
and was not executed by defendant nor by its authority, and
that the said Easton only had authority as agent aforesaid to
execute and deliver bills of lading for freights actually received by him for transportation."
The cause was submitted to the court for trial, a jury being
waived, upon the following agreed statement of.facts:
"1st. On November 16th, 1883, at Sherman station, in

FRIEDLAIDER v. TEXAS &c. RAILWAY CO.

419

Statement of the Case.

Grayson County, Texas, on the Eastern Division of the Texas
and Pacific Railway Company, E. D. Easton, agent for the
defendant at said station, executed as such agent a bill of lading, of which a copy is hereinafter given, and delivered the
same to Joseph Lahnstein, the person named in said bill of
lading.
"2d. That said Easton was at the time and place aforesaid
the regularly authorized agent of the defendant for the purpose of receiving for shipment cotton and other freight for
transportation by defendant over and along its line from Sherman station aforesaid, and that said bill of lading was in the
usual form and made out upon the usual printed blanks in use
by said defendant at said station, and that said Easton was
authorized by said defendant to execute bills of lading for
cotton and other freight by him received for the purpose of
transportation by the defendant.
"3d. That the said Joseph Lahnstein indorsed said bill of
lading by writing his name across the back thereof and drew
a draft on the plaintiffs in this cause on or about November
6th, 1883 (of which draft a copy is hereinafter given), for the
sum of eight thousand dollars, payable at sight to the order of
Oliver & Griggs, and attached said draft to said bill of lading
so indorsed, and on or about November 6th, 1883, forwarded
the same through said Oliver & Griggs for presentation to and
payment by the plaintiffs in this cause; that in due course of
business Oliver & Griggs forwarded said draft, with bill of
lading attached, to New Orleans, where the same was presented to and paid by plaintiffs on or about November 10th,
1883.
"14th. That in paying said draft said plaintiffs acted in
good faith and in the usual course of their business as commission merchants making advances upon shipments of cotton
to them for sale, and without any knowledge of any fraud or
misrepresentation connected with said bill of lading and draft,
and with the full and honest belief that said bill of lading and
draft were honestly and in good faith executed, and that the
cotton mentioned in said bill of lading had been in fact received by said defendant as represented in said bill of lading.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

"5th. That plaintiffs had previously paid one or more drafts
upon similar bills of lading, signed by the said Easton as agent
aforesaid, for cotton shipped them by said Joseph Lahnstein,
for sale by plaintiffs as commission merchants for account of
said Joseph Lahnstein, and that the cotton so previously advanced upon was received by plaintiffs in the due course of
transportation, pursuant to the terms of the bills of lading
upon which they made advances respectively, and the bill of
lading of November 6th, 1883, was the first received by plaintiffs from said Lahnstein and not fulfilled by defendant.
"6th. That, in point of fact, said bill of lading of November 6th, 1883, was executed by said E. D. Easton fraudulently
and by collusion with said Lahnstein and without receiving
any cotton for transportation, such as is represented in said
bill of lading, and without the expectation on the part of the
said Easton of receiving any such cotton; that said Easton
and said Lahnstein had fraudulently combined in one other
case, whereby said Easton signed and delivered to the said
Lahnstein a similar bill of lading for three hundred bales of
cotton which had not been received, and which the said Easton
had no expectation of receiving, the latter-named bill of lading having been given early in November, 1883, but that plaintiffs in this suit had no knowledge whatever of the facts stated
in this (sixth) clause until after they had in good faith paid and
advanced upon the bill of lading sued on and the draft thereto
attached, to them presented as aforesaid, the sum of $8000.00,
as hereinbefore stated.
"7th. That the cotton mentioned in said bill of lading, (of
November 6th, 1883,) had the same been actually received by
defendant and forwarded to plaintiffs, would have been worth
largely more than the amount so advanced by said plaintiffs
that is to say, would have been worth about
as aforesaid
$10,000.00, and that, except that the cotton was not received
nor expected to be received by said agent when said bill of
lading was by him executed as aforesaid, the transaction was,
from first to last, customary and in the usual course of trade,
and in accordance with the usage and customs of merchants
.and shippers and receivers of cotton.

FRIEDLANDER v. TEXAS &c. RAILWAY C0.

421

Statement of the Case.

"8th. That on said November 6th, 1883, and long prior
thereto and ever since, the headquarters and main offices of
defendant were and have been connected by railroad and telegraph communication with all stations on defendant's railroad
and with Sherman station aforesaid, among others.
"9th. That the defendant is a corporation created and existing and domiciled as alleged in the petition.
"10th. That on November 10th, 1883, said Joseph mentioned above was insolvent, and that he has been insolvent
ever since and is so now."
Then follows bill of lading, indorsed by Lahnstein and with
draft on Friedlander & Co. for $8000 attached, acknowledging
the receipt from Joseph Lahnstein of "two hundred bales of
cotton in apparent good order, marked and numbered as below,
to be transported from Sherman to New Orleans, La., and
delivered to the consignees or a connecting common carrier,"
and proceeding in the usual form, Lahnstein being named as
consignee, and directions given, "Notify J. Friedlander & Co.,
New Orleans, La." The Circuit Court found for the defendant, and judgment was rendered accordingly, and writ of error
thereupon brought to this court.
Upon the argument certain parts of the statutes of the State
of Texas were cited, with especial reference to the provision as
to common carriers, "that the trip or voyage shall be considered as having commenced from the time of the signing of bill
of lading." Title 13, Carriers, c. 1, Art. 277; Art. 280; Art.
283, [Act February 4, 1860]; Title 84, Railroads, c. 10, Art.
4258 b, ยง 8, [Approved, April 10, 1883, General Laws, Texas,
1883, p. 69]. Sayles' Texas Civil Statutes, 1888, Vol. I, pp.
131, 134, 135; Vol. II, p. 450.
Mr. A. G. Saftord, for plaintiffs in error, cited: Martin v.
Webb, 110 U. S. 7; Ca'rrv. London and Northwestern Railway
Co., L. R. 10 C. P. 307; Bank of Batavia v. New York, Iake
Co. v. F27erErie &e. Railroad,106 N. Y. 195; Cooper ilf'g
11
Pick.
36;
S. 0. 22
guson, 113 U. S. 727; Bulger v. Roche,
Am. Dec. 359; United States v. State Bank, 96 U. S. 30; Pollard v. inton, 105 U. S. 7; Grant v Norway, 10 0. B. 665;

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Citations for Defendant in Error.

Armour v. ]ichigan Central Railroad,65 N. Y. 111; Relyea
v. New Haven Rolling .Mill Co., 42 Connecticut, 579; Brooke
v. NYew Fork, Lake Erie &c. Railroad, 108 Penn. St. 529;
Wichita Savings Bank v. Atchison, Topeka &c. Railroad,20
Kansas, 519 ; Sioux City & Paciflc Railroadv. Fremont Bank,
10 Nebraska, 556; St. Louis &c. Railroad v. Lamed, 103
Illinois, 293; Wilkens v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,44 Maryland, 11; Williams v. Wilmington & ITeldon Railroad, 93
North Carolina, 42; .Merchants'Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall.
604; Drew v. Eimball, 43 N. I. 282; 5. C. 80 Am. Dec. 163;
Bank v. Lanier, 11 Wall. 369, 377; Bridgeport Bank v. New
York & New Haven Railroad, 30 Connecticut, 231; New
York & New Haven Railroadv. Schuyler, 34 N. Y. 30; ilolbrook v. Yew Jersey Zinc Co., 57 N. Y. 616; Sturges v. Bank
of Circleville, 11 Ohio St. 153; S. C. 78 Am. Dec. 296; Cocheco
Nfational Bank v. Haskell, 51 N. I. 116; Rapp v. Latham,
2 B. & Ald. 795; Hurme v. Bolland, 2 Ryan & -Moody, 371;
Beach v. State Bank, 2 Indiana, 488; Doremus v. 2cCormick,
7 Gill, 49; Sweet v. Bradley, 24 Barb. 549; Hawkins v.
Appleby, 2 Sandf. (N. Y.) 421; Griswold v. Haven, 25 N. Y.
595; S. C. 82 Am. Dec. 380; French v. Rowe, 15 Iowa, 563.
lr. Winslow .F. Piercefor defendant in error.
XP. J. F. Dillon filed a brief for defendant in error, citing:
Licklarrow v. .asoa, 2 T. R. 63; Grant v. Norway, 10 C. B.
665; 5. C. 15 Jurist, 396; S. C. 2 Eng. L. & Eq. 337; Hublersty v. Ward, 8 Exch. 330; Brown v. Powell Dufryn Co., L.
R. 10 C. P. 562; The Freeman v. Buckingham, 18 How. 182;
The Loon, 7 Blatchford, 244; Robinson v. Memphis & Charleston Railway, 9 Fed. Rep. 129; S. C. 16 Fed. Rep. 57; Pollard
v. Vinton, 105 U. S. 7; Sears v. Wingate, 3 Allen, 103; Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Wilkens, 44 Maryland, 11; Hunt v.
AIississip i Central Railroad, 29 La. Ann. 446; -Louisiana
Bank v. Laveille, 52 Missouri, 380; Williams v. Wilmington
& Weldon Railroad, 93 North Carolina, 42; C%andler v.
Sprague, 5 Met. 306; S. C. 38 Am. Dec. 404, and note, page
407; Cox v. Bruce, 18 Q. B. D. 147; St. Louis, Iron Hountain
& Southern Railway Co. v. Xnight, 122 U. S. 79; Walker v.

FRIEDLANDER v. TEXAS &c. RAILWAY CO.

423

Opinion of the Court.

-Brewer,11 Mass. 99; .lilerv. Hannibal & St. JosepA Rail-road,90 N. Y. 430.
MR. OnHF JusrTia

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
The agreed statement of facts sets forth "that, in point of
fact, said bill of lading of November 6, 1883, was executed by
said E. D. Easton, fraudulently and by collusion with said
Lahnstein and without receiving any cotton for transportation,
such as is represented in said bill of lading, and without the
expectation on the part of the said Easton of receiving any
such cotton;" and it is further said that Easton and Lahnstein
had fraudulently combined in another case, whereby Easton
signed and delivered to Lahnstein a similar bill of lading for
cotton "which had not been received, and which the said
Easton had no expectation of receiving;" and also "that,
except that the cotton was not received nor expected to be
received by said agent when said bill of lading was by him
executed as aforesaid, the transaction was, from first to last,
customary." In view of this language, the words "for transportation, such as is represented in said bill of lading" cannot
be held to operate as a limitation. The inference to be drawn
from the statement is that no cotton whatever was delivered
for transportation to the agent at Sherman station. The
question arises, then, whether the agent of a railroad company
at one of its stations can bind the company by the execution
of a bill of lading for goods not actually placed in his possession, and its delivery to a person fraudulently pretending in
collusion with such agent that he had shipped such g6ods, in
favor of a party without notice, with whom, in furtherance
of the fraud, the pretended shipper negotiates a draft, with
the false bill of lading attached. Bills of exchange and promissory notes are representatives of money, circulating in the
commercial world as such, and it is essential, to enable them
to perform their peculiar functions, that he who purchases
them should not be bound to look beyond the instrument, and
that his right to enforce them should not be defeated by any-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

thing short of bad faith on his part. But bills of lading
answer a different purpose and perform different functions.
They are regarded as so much cotton, grain, iron or other
articles of merchandise, in that they are symbols of ownership
of the goods they cover. And as no sale of goods lost or
stolen, though to a bond fide purchaser for value, can divest
the ownership of the person who lost them or from whom
they were stolen, so the sale of the symbol or mere representative of the goods can have no such effect, although it sometimes happens that the true owner, by negligence, has so put
it into the power of another to occupy his position ostensibly,
as to estop him from asserting his right as against a purchaser,
who has been misled to his hurt by reason of such negligence.
Shaw v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 557, 563; Pollardv. Tinton,
105 U. S. 7, 8; Gurney v. Behrend, 3 El. & Bl. 622, 633, 634.
It is true that while not negotiable as commercial paper is,
bills of lading are commonly used as security for loans and
advances; but it is only as evidence of ownership, special or
general, of the property mentioned in them, and of the right
to receive such property at the place of delivery.
Such being the character of a bill of lading, can a recovery
be had against a common carrier for goods never actually in
its possession for transportation, because one of its agents,
having authority to sign bills of lading, by collusion with
another person issues the document in the absence of any
goods at all ?
It has been frequently held by this court that the master of
a vessel has no authority to sign a bill of lading for goods not
actually put on board the vessel, and, if he does so, his act does
not bind the owner of the ship even in favor of an innocent
purchaser. The Freeman v. Buckingham, 18 How. 182, 191;
The Lady Franklin,8 Wall. 325 ; Pollardv. Yin ton, 105 U. S.
7. And this agrees with the rule laid down by the English
courts. -Lickbarrowv. Xfason, 2 T. R. '77; Grant v. Norway,
10 C. B. 665; Cox v. Bruce, 18 Q. B. D. 147. "The receipt
of the goods," ,said 'Mr. Justice -Miller, in Pollard v. Vinton,
supra, "lies at the foundation of the contract to carry and
deliver. If no goods are actually received, there can be no

FRIEDLANDER v. TEXAS &c. RAILWAY CO.

425

Opinion of the Court.

valid contract to carry or to deliver." "And the doctrine is
applicable to transportation contracts made in that form by
railway companies and other carriers by land, as well as carriers
by sea," as was said by Mr. Justice Matthews in Iron .Mountain
Rdilway v. Knight, 122 U. S. 79, 87, he adding also: "If Potter
(the agent) had never delivered to the plaintiff in error any
cotton at all to make good the 525 bales called for by the bills
of lading, it is clear that the plaintiff in error would not be
liable for the deficiency. This is well established by the cases
of DTe Schooner .Feemanv. Buckingham, 18 How. 182, and
Polla.rdv. Vinton, 105 U. S. 7."
It is a familiar principle of law that where one of two innocent parties must suffer by the fraud of another, the loss should
fall upon him who enabled such third person to commit the
fraud; but nothing that the railroad company did or omitted
to do can be properly said to have enabled Lahnstein to impose
upon Friedlander & Co. The company not only did not authorize Easton to sign fictitious bills of lading, but it did not
assume authority itself to issue such documents except upon
the delivery of the merchandise. Easton was not the company's agent in the transaction, for there was nothing upon
which the agency could act. Railroad companies are not
dealers in bills of exchange, nor in bills of lading; they are
carriers only, and held to rigid responsibility as such. Easton,
disregarding the object for which he was employed, and not
intending by his act to execute it, but wholly for a purpose of
his own and of Lahnstein, became 2artie cri inis with the
latter in the commission of the fraud upon Friedlander & Co.,
and it would be going too far to hold the company, under such
circumstances, estopped from denying that it had clothed this
agent with apparent authority to do an act so utterly outside
the scope of his employment and of its own business. The
defendant cannot be held on contract as a common carrier, in
the absence of goods, shipment and shipper; nor is the action
maintainable on the ground of tort. "The general rule," said
Willes, J., in Bamwick v. English Joint Stock Bank, L. R. 2
Ex. 259, 265, "is that the master is answerable for every such
wrong of the servant or agent as is committed in the course

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

of the service and for the master's benefit, though no express
command or privity of the master be proved." See also Linzpus v. Zondon General Omnibus Co., 1 H. & C. 526. The
fraud was in respect to a matter within the scope of Easton's
employment or outside of it. It was not within it, for bills'of
lading could only be issued for merchandise delivered; and
being without it, the company, which derived and could derive
no benefit from the unauthorized and fraudulent act, cannot
be made responsible. British _Mutual Banking Go. v. Chanwood Fore.qt Railway Co.,.18 Q. B. D. 714.
The law can punish roguery, but cannot always protect a
purchaser from loss, and so fraud perpetrated through the
device of a false bill of lading may work injury to an innocent
party, which cannot be redressed by a change of victim.
Under the Texas statutes the trip or voyage commences from
the time of the signing of the bill of lading issued upon the
delivery of the goods, and thereunder the carrier cannot avoid
his liability as such, even though the goods are not actually on
their passage at the time of a loss, but these provisions do not
affect the result here.
We cannot distinguish the case in hand from those heretofore decided by this court, and in consonance with the conclusions therein announced this judgment must be
Afflrmed.

SHEPHERD v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD

COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE
SOUTHERN
N o. 213.

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF OHIO.

Argued March 20, 21, 189.-

Decided April 8, 1889.

To entitle a property owner to recover for injury to his property in Ohio
by reason of the location of a railroad on a public street, road or alley,
it is not necessary under the provisions of Rev. Stats. Ohio, ยง 3283, that
the property should be situated upon the street so occupied; but it is

