KILBOURN v. SUNDERLAND.
Statement of the Case.

lien was given under the act, did not attempt to state what
was the total of such amounts, it is proper that
The decree should be reversed, and the case be remanded to
the Circuit Court, with a direction to allow a re~xamination, of the claim of Wilcox, before a master, on the same
andfurtherproofs, if desired; and it is so ordered.

ILBOURN v. SUNDERLAND.
SU-NDERLAND v. KILBOURN.
SUNDERLAND v. KILBOURN.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Hos. 188, 261, 262. Argued March 7, 8, 3889.-Decided April 22,1889.

Where it is competent for a court of equity to grant the relief asked for,
and it has jurisdiction of the subject matter, the objection that the
complainant has an adequate remedy at law should be taken at the
earliest opportunity, and before the defendants enter upon a full defence.
Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S. 354, followed.
Equity jurisdiction may be invoked, although there is also a remedy at law,
unless the remedy at law, both in respect of the final relief and the mode
of obtaining it is as efficient as the remedy which equity could confer
under the same circumstances.
When a charge of fraud involves the consideration of principles applicable
to fiduciary and trust relations, equity has jurisdiction over it, as "fraud"
has a more extensive signification in equity than it has at law.
When a party injured by fraud is in ignorance of its existence, the duty to
commence proceedings arises only upon its discovery; and mere submission to any injury after the act inflicting it is completed cannot generally,
and in the absence of other circumstances, take away a right of action,
unless such acquiescence continues for the period limited by the statute
for the enforcement of the right.
On the facts it is held that Stewart was not an indispensable party to
this suit, and that the plaintiffs are entitled to a portion of the relief
prayed for.

THE court, in its opinion, stated the case as follows:

In 1872, Thomas Sunderland, Curtis J. Hillyer and William
M. Stewart associated themselves for the purchase and sale of

OCTOBER TER.-H, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

real estate in the city of Washington by way of investment
and speculation. Hallet Kilbourn, James M. Latta and John
F. Olmstead were carrying on business at that time in Washington as real estate agents, in partnership, under the firm
name of Kilbourn & Latta, and they were employed as their
agents by Sunderland, Hillyer and Stewart.
Within a period of a few weeks Sunderland, Hillyer and
Stewart had purchased property through Kilbourn & Latta at
a cost of several hundred thousand dollars. Sunderland's interest in the purchases was one half, llillyer's one quarter, and
Stewart's one quarter; and soon afterwards and in the same
year, Stewart sold out his interest to Sunderland. In addition
to these joint purchases, Sunderland purchased for himself in
the same way to a large amount.
Two suits in equity in reference to the dealings between the
parties had been commenced in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Indiana, against Latta alone, and as
a partner of Kilbourn & Latta, one on behalf of Sunderland
and llillyer and the other on behalf of Sunderland alone, in
which process was served on Latta but not on Kilbourn or
Olmstead. Subsequently the original bill in this cause was
filed in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia and a
stipulation was entered into whereby the subject matter of the
causes in Indiana was transferred to the litigation here, and,
by amendments made in pursuance of the stipulation, all the
controversies were consolidated into this suit, the bill as
amended seeking relief in favor of flillyer and Sunderland as
against Kilbourn, Latta and Olmstead, and as against Latta
alone, and in favor of Sunderland as against the three and also
as against Latta individually. And the answers of Kilbourn
and Olmstead, and the several answers of Latta, put in issue
all the causes of action respectively. The original bill was
filed June 9, 1881, and the amendments March 22, 1882. During the proceedings Stewart, %vhohad not been made a party
in terms, entered his appearance and filed a disclaimer. The
original bill and amendments alleged an arrangement between
Sunderland, Eillyer and Stewart for the purchase of real
estate, and charged that Kilbourn & Latta were employed

KILBOURN v. SUNDERLAND.
Statement of the Case.

as the agents of complainants and Stewart to make for them
the proposed purchases under an agreement set out by the
complainants as follows:
"That the plaintiffs and the said Stewart should entrust
unto said firm as their agents aforesaid the negotiation for and
the purchase of such real estate in the said quarter of the said
city as the plaintiffs and the said Stewart might elect to acquire; that they should furnish unto the said firm, when by
the same thereunto required, such sums of money as might be
requisite for the acquisition of the property, and that the plaintiffs and the said Stewart should pay unto the said firm, upon
the purchases to be made by said firm on their account, a reasonable compensation, by way of commission, when and in
case the said firm should make no charge by way of commission against the vendors of the property, but in case any such
charge should be made by the said firm against the vendors,
that then the plaintiffs and the said Stewart should pay unto
the said firm no commission whatever; that the said firm, in
consideration of so being entrusted with the purchase of such
real estate and of the commissions which it might derive upon
such purchases, should ascertain and point out unto the plaintiffs and the said Stewart such lots and parcels of land, in the
said section of the said city, as in the judgment of the said
firm might be most advantageously acquired by the plaintiffs
and the said Stewart; that the said firm should advise and
counsel, to the best of its judgment, knowledge and experience,
the plaintiffs and the said Stewart in respect of the purchase
of any particular parcel of land within the said section which
they, on their own motion, might suggest to the said firm as
desirable to be purchased on their account, and that in any
and all cases the said firm should negotiate for the purchase of
any real property to be acquired on account of the plaintiffs
and the said Stewart at the lowest possible rate at which it
could be obtained from the owner, and after ascertaining the
price at which any such property might be obtained from the
owner, should fairly and to the best of the knowledge and
ability of the said firm inform the plaintiffs and the said
Stewart whether the said price was such as to render their ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

quisition of the property desirable, and recommend to them
whether they should purchase the property or not; that if the
plaintiffs and the said Stewart consented to such purchase, the
same should be made on their account by the said firm, and that
upon receiving at its request from the purchasers the cash required in the first instance, and also the amount of deferred
payments as the same might become payable, the said firm
should make due settlement with the vendor or other person
entitled to payment."
It is averred that large quantities of real estate were purchased, and that as to each purchase, Kilbourn & Latta represented that they had negotiated with the owner and obtained
the lots at the lowest price, and that the price agreed on was
the lowest price at which the property could be obtained, and
that complainants relied on those representations; that complainants called the attention of Kilbourn & Latta to square
No. 115, and requested Kilbourn & Latta to ascertain the
owner and price thereof; that thereafter Kilbourn & Latta
informed complainants that $65,000 was the lowest price at
which the property could be obtained, and advised the purchase,
which complainants authorized, paying $20,000 down, which
was represented by Kilbourn & Latta to be required by the
seller, and the property was conveyed to Latta as trustee for
complainants; that these representations were false, and the
real price, instead of being $65,000, was only $40,000, and the
cash payynent required only $8000, instead of $20,000; that
such representations were made for the purpose of cheating
complainants and obtaining from them the sum of $25,000,
which defendants appropriated to their own use; that the real
facts in relation to these purchases were not discovered by them
until'March, 1881; that complainants, about the same time and
in substantially the same manner, were defrauded in reference
to the purchase of lot 1 in square 158, the purchase price being
put at $8316, when it was really only $5000, the firm of Kilbourn & Latta thereby receiving and appropriating $3316;
that Kilbourn & Latta defrauded complainants out of the following sums through the acquisition of the following pieces of
property: Square 155, the sum of $5319.55; three lots in square

KILBOURN v. STNDERLAND.
Statement of the Case.

158, the sum of $2663.70; in square 156, the sum of $22,973;
that the real truth as to the last transaction did not come to
their knowledge until January or February, 1882; that afterwards the property purchased and two other valuable tracts
were left in the care of the firm for resale, and in consideration
of the probable commissions on such sales the firm agreed that
it would keep upon its books the property, look after the payment of taxes, interest and the like, and disburse the funds
therefor without any charge; that prior to January 1, 1873,
complainants had sent to the firm some $250,000, and on
December 31, 1876, Kilbourn & Latta held a balance in cash
due to complainants of not less than $20,000, of which they
appropriated $16,520 to their own use for the care and management of the property from June, 1872; that the complainants were ignorant of said charges until June, 1878; that being
informed in 1877 by defendants that remittances should be.
sent to Latta for disbursements, considerable sums were sent
to him, of which he wrongfully appropriated the sum of
$5827.50; that Sunderland individually purchased several
parcels of real estate through Kilbourn & Latta under the
same agreement, which was left in the hands of the said firm,
and out of funds of his in their hands the firm wrongfully
appropriated $5973, and also $1000, of which he was not informed until July, 1878; and that the defendant Latta wrongfully appropriated $1672 belonging to Sunderland, of which
the latter was ignorant until then.
The defendants in answering denied specifically any such
agreement as that alleged by the complainants; averred that
such a contract would have been void, if made; insisted that the
claims were stale and complainants guilty of laches; and set
up the statute of frauds and the statute of limitations and a receipt in full upon an accounting. They objected that Stewart
was a necessary and indispensable party, averred that t~heir
charges for care and management were just, reasonable and
proper, and denied all allegations of fraud.
The cause was ordered to be heard by the general term in
the first instance, and that court rendered a decree January 9,
1885, in favor of the complainants and against all the defend-

OCTOBER TERN:, 1888.
Citations for Sunderland.

ants for various sums, namely, the sum of $5319.55 for profit
unjustly and illegally detained by the defendants from the
complainants, arising out of the purchase of square No. 155,
and also for the sum of $3316 in respect to profit made by
defendants in the purchase of lot 17 in square No. 158; also
for $8263.33 for overcharge made by defendants for care and
management of complainants' property; and in favor of complainant Thomas Sunderland, individually, in pursuance of the
stipulation of the parties filed in the cause against all of the
defendants, for the sum of $5973.33 for overcharges for care
and management of property belonging to Sunderland; and
also, in pursuance of said stipulation, in favor of Sunderland
individually against Latta individually, for $1672.85, being for
overcharges for care and management; and also, in pursuance
of said stipulation, in favor of complainants against Latta individually, for $2838.92 for overcharge made by Latta for care
and management of their property, and for $1235.79, money
retained by Latta from complainants' moneys in his hands.
For the opinion of the court, which was pronounced July 5,
1884, see Sun derlandv. ]filbourn, 3 Mackey, 506.
Subsequently, upon petition for rehearing, the first decree
was vacated and'a second rendered January 22, 1885, awarding to complainants against defendants the sum of $3316; and
also the sum of $8000 for excessive charges for care and management; and also in favor of complainants and against Latta
individually of $2500. From this decree an appeal was taken
by the defendants jointly and by Latta individually, which is
No. 188, and appeals by the complainants jointly and by Sunderland individually, which are Nos. 261 and 262.
-Mr. X f. -Morris,for Sunderland, cited: Smith v. Woolfolk,
115 U. S. 143; Tallejo v. Green, 16 California, 160; ffuekolls
v. -Irwin, 2 Nebraska, 60; Lane v. WTleless, 46 Mississippi,
666; Hettrick v. Wilson, 12 Ohio St. 136; S. C. 80 Am. Dec.
337; Wylie v. Coxe, 15 How. 415; Boyce v. Grundy, 3 Pet.
210; Harrison v. Rowan, 4 Wash. C. C. 202; Gelpcke v.
Dubuque, 1 Wall. 220; United States v. lodson, 10 Wall.
395; Planters'Bank v. Union Bank, 16 Wall. 483; -MoBlair

KILBOURK v. SUNDERLAND.
Argument for Kilbourn.

v. Gibbe8, 17 How. 232; Armstrong v. Toler, 11 Wheat. 258;
Pattersonv. De la Ronde, 8 Wall. 292.
.tbr. .Enoch Totten, and Mr. J. -ff. Wilson, for Kilbourn,
Olmstead and Latta.
I. There is no jurisdiction in equity in this cause. There is
a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law. The prayers
of the bill and amended bill are alike; they pray that the
defendants "may account fully to the complainants of and
concerning their said trusts," and that they may "be required by the decree of the court to pay" the several sums
of money which are precisely set out in their pleadings.
The widest scope which can be given to their prayers is that
they amount to a prayer for a money decree or judgment for
the several sums which have been so accurately ascertained.
The authorities on this subject are numerous in this court; it
is deemed unnecessary to cite authorities from other courts.
Buzard v. Houston, 119 U. S. 347; Hayward v. Andrews, 106
U. S. 672; -Yew Fork Guarantee Co. v. MJemp is Water Co.,
107 U. S. 205; Sullivan v. Portland and Rennebec Railroad,
94 U. S. 806; Litchtield v. Ballou, 114 U. S. 190; JKillian v.
Ebbinghaus, 110 U. S. 568.
II. There never was any such special agreement as that set
forth in the bill and amendments thereto.
III. The alleged agreement as set out in the pleadings and
as described in the proof is void.
Such a contract is void because inconsistent with public
policy. The two judges who entered the decree appealed
from agreed that this alleged contract was void, but notwithstanding this they held, in effect, the agreement would be executed by a court of equity. This was error. A double agent
of a real estate agent or broker involves inconsistent duties,
and it is clear, upon both principle and authority, that in case
of such double employment, the contract is void. It has been
doubted whether such double agency, made even with the consent of both buyer and seller, can be upheld on the ground of
public policy. See Meyer v. Hanchett, 43 Wisconsin, 246;

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Kilbourn.

Raisin v. Clark, 41 Maryland, 158. That such agencies are
void when the employment is concealed from one of the principals, there can be no doubt. Ringo v. Binns, 10 Pet 969;
]IuPP v. Sampson, 16 Gray, 398; S. U4 77 Am. Dec. 416; Stewart v. _Mather, 32 Wisconsin, 344, 355; .Aeyer v. Hanchett, 39
Wisconsin, 419; Farnsworthv Hemmer, 1 Allen, 494; S. C. 79
Am. Dec. 756; Walker v. Osgood, 98 Mass. 348; . C. 93 Am.
Dec. 168; Bollman v..Loomis, 41 Connecticut, 581; Everhart
v. Searle, 71 Penn. St. 256; Lloyd v. Colston, 5 Bush, 587;
Shirland v. .Monitor I'on Works, 41 Wisconsin, 162; 3Marye v.
Strouse, 6 Sawyer, 204; Mlichaud v. Girod,4 How. 503; Conkey
v. Bond, 34 Barb. 276; Bell v. McConnell, 37 Ohio St. 396;
Jacksonville, St..Louis &c. Railroadv. .M[athers,71 Illinois, 592.
IV. The claim is stale and will not be entertained or enforced by a court of equity, because (1) the defendants have
had mutual settlements, have transferred property, and their
positions were changed during the long silence on the part of
the plaintiffs; (2) the defence of the statute of limitations of
three years has been interposed by the defendants. To avoid
these defences the complainants say they did not discover the
alleged fraud till recently when they examined the deeds.
But these deeds were recorded, and they were bound by the
knowledge which the record disclosed. Brant v. Virginia
Coal Co., 93 U. S. 326; Sullivan v. Portland and Kennebec
Railway, 94 U. S. 806.
V. The accounts showing the disputed charges and the
balance of $2715.58 due the complainants having been received soon after the 26th of November, 1877, by the plaintiffs, and having been retained by them without objections
until in Tune or July, 1878, should be held as conclusive.
Between merchants at home an account which has been presented, and no objection made thereto after the lapse of'several posts, is treated, under ordinary circumstances, as being
by acquiescence a stated account.
Wiggins v. Burkham, 10
Wall. 129; Chapyedelaine v. Decheneaux, 4 Cranch, 306; Freeland v. Heron,7 Cranch, 147; Lockwood v. Theme, 11 N.Y. 17( ;
S. a 62 Am. Dec. 81; Richmond M'f'g Co. v. Starks, 4 Mason, 296 ; Leather Manufacturers'Bank v. Mlforgan, 117 U. S. 96.

KILBOURN v. SUNDERLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

VI. The plaintiffs are estopped by accepting and acquiescing in the statement of the accounts and by receiving and by
receipting in full for the balance shown thereby $2715.58.
After this "account stated" had been prepared, and, on the
26th of November, 1877, forwarded to the complainants, and
by them retained, without objection, for nearly a year, they,
on the 10th day of September, 1878, received the balance
shown to be due them by that "account stated" to wit,
$2715.58, in full discharge and release of the defendants, Kilbourn and Olmstead. This concludes them. See Vedder v.
Vedder, 1 Denio, 260; United States v. Cid,12 Wall. 232.
VII. Stewart was a partner during all the time the purchases complained of were progressing, and he is interested in
proportion to his share in the speculation. His sale of the
property did not carry with it the claim based on the misconduct of the defendant: if any there was, such a claim cannot
be assigned.
The objection of want of parties is taken in the pleadings.
The absence of a necessary party is fatal, and the bill must be
dismissed. See Alexander v. ilorner,1 McCrary, 634; Rolertson v. Carson, 19 Wall. 94.
-Mr. J. H Raston for Hillyer.
MF. CHIEF

IuSTc.C

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
It is argued on behalf of Kilbourn, Latta and Olmstead that
Stewart was an indispensable party to the cause, and that the
bill should have been dismissed because he was not made such.
Title to the real estate purchased by Sunderland, Hillyer and
Stewart was placed in Latta in trust as matter of convenience,
and it appears that in December, 1872, Stewart sold all his
interest to Sunderland, evidencing the transaction by a memorandum in writing, in form of a bill of sale, which is not produced, but the fact is admitted by stipulation, and that he
subsequently executed a more formal assignment, which is
given in the record. Stewart testifies that Sunderland "was,
vOL. cxxx-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

with the knowledge and consent of the firm of Kilbourn &
Latta, substituted in my place, and from that day I ceased to
have any interest whatever in the transactions or business."
On the 1st of November, 1883, the appearance of Stewart was
entered by counsel, with a disclaimer "of all right and cause
of action on his part against the defendants, or any of them,
on account of any of the matters set forth or involved in this
cause." Tnder these circumstances we regard this objection
as untenable.
The point is also pressed that the remedy at law was plain,
adequate and complete, and jurisdiction in equity therefore
wanting. We do not understand counsel to repudiate the
stipulation, or to suggest multifariousness or any objection
arising upon the rather unusual mode pursued to secure a conclusion in four cases rolled into one, but to contend that the
determination of all the matters in issue belongs on the law
side of the court. The defendants fully answered the bill, and
raised no such objection, and, the cause being at issue, and
evidence taken, it was ordered on the 23d of February, 1883,
by consent, to be heard by the general term in the first instance. On the 24th of March, 1884, the defendant moved to
dismiss on the ground of the adequacy of the remedy at law.
We have had occasion recently to remark that where it is
competent for the court to grant the relief sought, and it has
Jurisdiction of the subject'matter, this objection should be taken
at the earliest opportunity and before the defendants enter
upon a full defence. .Reynes v. Dumont, ante, 354. By stipulation several suits had in effect been consolidated with the
intention, by consent, of adjusting the conflicting claims
between Sunderland and Uillyer jointly and Sunderland alone,
and Kilbourn, Latta, and Olmstead and Latta alone, and the
parties had proceeded in their pleadings upon that theory, and
taken all the evidence, and had the cause set down for hearing.
It is then suggested that Sunderland and Uillyer and Sunderland cannot maintain their suit in equity, but must be remitted
to actions at law. We do not agree with this view.
The jurisdiction in equity attaches unless the legal remedy,
both in respect to the final relief and the mode of obtaining it,

KILBOURN v. SUNDERLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

is as efficient as the remedy which equity would confer under
the same circumstances. The paries stood in a fiduciary
relation towards each other, and, in the course of the transactions between them, from thirty to forty different- lots of
ground were bought for the complainants in upwards of fifteen
distinct purchases. As to five of these purchases fraud is
specifically charged. A considerable amount of complainants'
money was in defendants' hands, and a counter-claim was set
up by them in relation to services performed in and about the
care of a portion of the property purchased; services covering
many payments for taxes, interest, etc.; making of loans and
procuring renewals; receipts and advances. The transactions
were all parts of one general enterprise, and the claims of a
character involving trust relations. Before the severance of
the connection between the parties, Kilbourn & Latta dissolved,
and the amounts due from Kilbourn & Latta, if any, and from
Latta alone, if any, to Sunderland and Hillyer or to Sunderland,
and the offsets and counter-claims of Kilbourn & Latta or of
Latta, all sprang from one series of operations, and required
an accounting on both sides, and that accounting, until disentangled by the investigation of the court, was apparently complicated and difficult. "There cannot be any real doubt that
the remedy in equity, in cases of account, is generally more
complete and adequate than it is or can be at law," 1 Story's
Eq. Sur. ยง 450; and, as the remedy at law in the case in hand
was rendered embarrassed and doubtful by the conduct of the
defendants, and fraud has in equity a more extensive signification than at law, and, as charged here, involved the consideration of the principles applicable to fiduciary and trust relations
between the parties throughout the period of their connection,
we concur with the Supreme Court of the District in sustaining the jurisdiction.
Complainants proceeded upon the liability of the defendants
to account for the unauthorized appropriation of moneys
received as complainants' agents, the amount of which they
sought to reduce by excessive charges for the care and management of complainants' property; and also for certain differences
between what was paid by complainants for property purchased

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

through defendants at one price, though obtained by defendants at another. The different amounts claimed are sufficiently
set forth in the statement of the case.
By the decree the court awarded in favor of the complainants
and against all the defendants, the sum of $3316 as received
from complainants in the purchase of lot 17, square 158, under
circumstances requiring its return, and the sum of $8000 for
excessive charges; and in favor of the complainants and against
the defendant Latta the sum of $2500 for overcharges; and
disallowed all the other items. The correctness of these allowances and disallowances is questioned upon these appeals
respectively.
We affirm the conclusions reached by the Supreme Court of
the District in disposing of the various amounts alleged to
have been so received as to justify a decree against the defendants in respect to them.
As to lot No. 17 in square No. 158, the direction of the complainants to the defendants was, "we are willing to give 50
cents a foot for any property you can get in that square."
This was the maximum price, and lot 17 at that rate would
have amounted to $8316. The defendants succeeded in purchasing it for $5000, and then charged it to the complainants
at the maximum. Clearly, the money so received must be
accounted for to the complainants from whom it was obtained
by a violation of fiduciary relations.
The claim for profits on square 156, of $14,601, rests on different ground. That property had been purchased by a real
estate association in October, 1871, for speculative purposes,
and conveyed to Kilbourn by Thomas Young, the vendor, as
trustee for the association. Evidence is given by which it is
attempted to show that Kilbourn & Latta had been guilty of
dereliction of duty as between themselves and the real estate
association, and it is argued that they did not account to their
associates in that concern for their half of the profits. But
with all this these complainants have nothing to do. The
profits which Kilbourn & Latta were entitled to as between
themselves and the real estate association, and the commissions which they received from the latter can hardly be

KILBOURN v. SUNDERLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

held as to be accounted for to these complainants, in the
absence of an agreement that the benefit of all contracts
defendants had with others should be shared with them.
As to square No. 115, Kilbourn & Latta, before their connection with complainants, had made an offer for the square,
which was accepted; and, while the title was being put in
marketable shape, in order that the sale might be consummated, their agency for complainants was entered upon. Kilbourn & Latta's bargain for the lot was $40,000, but there
was no agreement, as we have said before, that the complainants should have the benefit of all defendants' outstanding
contracts, and, as they were contented with their purchase, it
is difficult to see upon what ground they can recover here.
The relations between the parties were such that Kilbourn &
Latta should have disclosed that they were acting as principals
in this sale, but the complainants suffered no pecuniary loss
for want of such disclosure, since they took the property at
their own price. Their remedy, if they were deceived, lay in
throwing up the bargain, but they did not do so, and could
not treat it, as is well said, (3 Mackey, 525,) "as a contract fulfilled and as a contract broken." The same remarks apply to
square 155, and to lot 10 in square No. 158, the bargains having been made before the sales to complainants; and as to lot 8,
and half of lot 9 in square No. 158, the defendants deny the
receipt even of commissions.
It may be that the money of complainants enabled the
defendants to obtain considerable profit in several ventures,
but the case made affords no substantial ground for the interposition of the court on that account.
In relation to the alleged overcharges for care and management, the services rendered are set forth in the opinion of the
Supreme Court of the District with much particularity, and
the grounds for liberality in the premises strongly urged. We
do not care to repeat what has been so well stated there. The
firm of Kilbourn & Latta was dissolved December 31, 1876, in
possession at the time of a large amount of complainants'
money, as against which charges were entered on the firm's
books December 12, 1876, for "care and 'management" from

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

M-lay, 1872, of the property of Sunderland and Hlillyer, of
$16,526.67, and of the property of Sunderland, of $5973.33.
Similar charges were made by Latta after the dissolution,
against Sunderland and Hillyer, to the amount of 85677.85,
and against Sunderland, of $1672.85. The court found the
complainants entitled to recover the sum of $8000 against all
the defendants, and the sum of $2500 against Latta individually. We think the sum of $1235.77 should also be allowed
against Latta. His account with Sunderland and Hillyer
showed a balance due them, June 20, 1878, of $5480.93, and
his account with Sunderland showed an indebtedness from the
latter, August 7, 1878, of $4245.16, and, as counsel for complainants concede the propriety of applying this sum on the
amount due Sunderland and Hillyer, a balance of $1235.77 is
left, for which Latta should account, with interest from
August 7, 1878. The court ruled adversely to the claim of
Sunderland against Latta, for overcharges, of $1672.85, in
respect to services rendered, and to the claim of Sunderland
against all the defendants for $1000 commission on sale
of Stewart's house. We accept these results, but we are
of opinion that Sunderland should be awarded, against all the
defendants, a portion of the $5973.33 charged for services rendered him, and, applying the rule adopted by the District
Supreme Court, we decide that he should be decreed the sum
of $2986.66 in respect of this item, with interest from December 12, 1876.
In answer to the defences of laches and limitation the complainants contend that the alleged bad faith of defendants was
not discovered by them until a short time before the bill was
filed, and that they had no intelligible information of the excess in charges for care and nanagement until late in June,
1878.
Reasonable diligence is of course essential to invoking the
activity of the court, but what constitutes such diligence depends upon the facts of the particular case. Where a party
injured by fraud is in ignorance of its existence, the duty to
commence proceedings arises only upon discovery, and mere
submission to an injury after the act inflicting it is completed

KILBOURN v. SUNDERLAND.

519'

Opinion of the Court.

cannot generally, and in the absence of other circumstances,
take away a right of action, unless such acquiescence continues
for the period limited by the statute for the enforcement of
such right. .DeBussce v. Alt, 8 Ch. D. 286, 314.' We hold
that the complainants moved with sufficient promptness upon
discovering the fraud, and that although, reposing confidence
in their agents, they may have neglected availing themselves
of some source of knowledge they might have sought, the
defendants cannot be allowed to say that complainants ought
to have suspected them, and are chargeable with what they
might have found out upon inquiry aroused by such suspicion.
And we are satisfied from the evidence that this suit was
commenced as against each and all the defendants within the
statutory period, after information of the charges for care and
management reached the complainants, and that the accounts
were so rendered, that the rule of acquiescence ordinarily obtaining as between merchants is not applicable here.
On the 10th of September, 1878, Sunderland gave Latta a
receipt for $2715.58 as "Received of Kilbourn and Olmstead,
on account of the late firm of Kilbourn & Latta," signed "Sunderland and llillyer" and "Thomas Sunderland," that $2715.58
being the amount of complainants' money in their hands, for
which defendants admitted their liability, and this is resorted
to as conclusive evidence, or at least as of persuasive force,
upon the question of the alleged overcharges. In view of the
form of the receipt and the testimony as to the facts attending
its being signed, we do not attribute that weight to it insisted
upon by counsel.
We need not discuss the evidence bearing upon the alleged
contract between the parties.
Necessarily, the agent for the
buyer cannot be the agent for the seller at the same time.
But we think that, under the pleadings, the stipulations, and
the evidence, a decree was properly passed below and should
not be disturbed here for any reason arising upon the record
in its bearing upon the original terms of the arrangement, nor
have we been convinced by the earnest argument of counsel
for complainants that the setting aside of the decree first
rendered, and the rendition of another decree in some respects

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

different, entitles him to a reversal, as the court had power to
take the course it did, and upon a consideration of the whole
case we are sufficiently satisfied with the result, except in the
particulars indicated.
The decree is
Afflrmed, except so far as it fails to allow the sum of $1235.7'y,
in favor of Sunderland and Hillyer against Latta individually, and also the sum of $2986.66, in favor of Sundernand against Kilbour, Zatta and Olmstead; and, as
to the non-allowance of those sums, it is reversed, with
directions to modify said decree by adding them, with interest, in conformity with this opinion ; the costs of this
couwrt to be paid by Jilbourn,Latta and Olmstead; and it
is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD

dissented.

STILLWELL AND BIERCE MANUFACTURING
COMPANY v. PHELPS.
ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 209. Argued March 18, 1889.-Decided April 15, 1889.

When, under a contract to furnish, and to put in complete operation in the
purchaser's mill, machinery of a certain description and quality, for a
price payable partly upon the arrival of the machinery at the mill and
partly after the completion of the work, the machinery furnished and
set up does not, when tested, comply with the requirements of the contract, the purchaser, upon giving notice to the seller that, if the latter
does not "put the mill in repair so that it will do good work," the former will do so, is entitled to deduct, in an action for the unpaid part
of the price, the reasonable cost of altering the construction and setting
of the machinery so as to conform to the contract.
Whether a witness called to testify to any matter of opinion has such qualifications and knowledge as to make his testimony admissible is a preliminary question for the judge presiding at the trial; and his decision of
it is conclusive, unless clearly shown to be erroneous in matter of law.

