OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

DAVIES v. MILLER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1279.

Argued January 14, 15, 1889. -Decided

April 1, 1889.

The notice of dissatisfaction with the decision of the collector of customs
as to the rate and amount of duties on imported goods, required by the
act of June 30, 1864, c. 171, § 14 (Rev. Stat. § 2931), to be given "within
ten days after the ascertainmept and liquidation of the duties by the
proper officers of the customs," may- be given at any time after the entry
of the goods and the collector's original estimate of the amount of
duties, and before the final ascertainment and liquidation of the duties
as stamped upon the entry.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr&. Stephen G. Clarke for plaintiffs in error. 21-. Edwin
B. Smith was with him on the brief.
. [r. Solicitor General for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE

GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action against the executors of a late collector
of the port of New York to recover back duties exacted on
goods imported by the plaintiffs in July, August and September, 1873.
At the trial, the plaintiffs introduced evidence tending to
show that the duties exacted and paid were excessive; that
appeals to tie Secretary of the Treasury were taken and this
action brought, jn due, tine; and that the protest as to each
entry was filed after the collector's decision on the rate and
amount of duties, but before the date of the final ascertainment and liquidation of the duties, as stamped upon the entry.
The court directed a verdict for the defendants, on the
ground that the protest was filed "before the liquidation of
the entry to which it referred, and not within ten days thereafter, as required by law." The plaintiffs duly excepted to

DAVIES v. MILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

the ruling, and, after judgment for the defendants, sued out
this writ of error.
The customs acts in force at the time of the importation of
these goods contained the following provisions:
The collector and the naval officer are required to make and
to indorse upon the importer's entry a gross estimate of the
amount of the duties on the -merchandise to which the entry
relates, and the merchandise cannot be lawfully landed until
the amount of the estimated duties has been first paid, or
secured to be paid, and a permit granted. Act of March 2,
1799, c. 22, § 49, 1 Stat. 664; Rev. Stat. § 2869.
The merchandise must be appraised, or bonds given by the
importer in double its estimated value, before it is delivered
from the custody of the officers of the customs. If the collector deems any appraisement too low, he may order a new
appraisement, and may cause the duties to be charged accordingly. If the importer is dissatisfied with the appraisement,
the collector must order another appraisement by two appraisers of a specified class, and, if they disagree, decide between
them, and the appraisement thus determined shall be final
and duties levied accordingly. Acts of May 28, 1830, c. 147,
§§ 2, 4, 4 Stat. 409, 410; August 30, 1842, c. 270, § 17, 5 Stat.
564; March 3, 1851, c. 38, § 3, 9 Stat. 630; Rev. Stat. §§ 2899,
2929, 2930.
On the entry of any merchandise, the decision of the collector of customs at the port of importation and entry, as to
the rate and amount of duties to be paid on such merchandise,
shall be final and conclusive against all persons interested
therein, unless the owner, importer, agent or consignee of
the merchandise "shall, within ten days after the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties by the proper officers of
the customs, as well in cases of merchandise entered in bond
as for consumption, give notice in writing to the collector on
each entry, if dissatisfied with his decision, setting forth therein
distinctly and specifically the grounds of his objection thereto,
and.shall, within thirty clays after the date of such ascertainment and liquidation, appeal therefrom to the Secretary of
the Treasury." Act of June 30, 1864, c. 171, § 14, 13 Stat.
214; Rev. Stat. § 2931.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The question is whether the period allowed for filing the
protest or notice of dissatisfaction with the decision made by
the collector at the time of the entry upon the rate and amount
of duties extends from the time of that decision, or only from
the date of the final ascertainment and liquidation of the
duties as stamped upon the entry, until ten days after that
date; or, in other words, whether this period, which is admitted to expire ten days after the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties as so stamped, begins at the date of the
stamp, or at the earlier date of the collector's original decision
upon the estimated rate and amount of duties.
The determination of this question will be aided by a brief
consideration of the history of the law before the passage of
the act of 1864.
Under the earlier acts of Congress, which contained no provision on this subject, an importer who had paid unauthorized
duties, under protest, and in order to obtain possession of his
goods, might recover them back from the collector in an action
of assumpsit for money had and received. Elliott v. Swartwout,
10 Pet. 137.
The act of March 3, 1839, c. 82, § 2, requiring the collector
to pay the money into the Treasury, notwithstanding the protest of the importer, and giving the importer a right of appeal
to the Secretary of. the Treasury, was held by this court, at
January term, 1845, to take away the importer's right to
bring an action of assumpsit. 5 Stat. 348; Cary v. Curtis,
3 How. 236.
Then came the act of February 26, 1845, c. 22, providing
that nothing in the act of 1839 should have that effect; "nor
shall any action be maintained against any collector, to recover
the amount of duties so paid under protest, unless the said
protest was made in writing, and signed by the claimant, at
or before the payment of said duties, setting forth distinctly
and specifically the grounds of objection to the. payment
thereof." 5 Stat. '727.
Under that act, Chief Justice Taney, sitting in the Circuit
Court, held that a protest might be made prospectively, so as
to cover subsequent similar importations,. because, said the

DAVIES v. MILLER
Opinion of the Court.

Chief Justice, "The protest is legally made when the duties
are finally determined, and the amount assessed by the collector; and a protest before or at that time is sufficient notice,
as it warns the collector, before he renders his account to the
Treasury Department, that he will be held personally responsible if the portion disputed is not legally due; and that the
claimant means to assert his rights in a court of justice."
Brune v. 3arriott,Taney, 132, 144. And his decision was
affirmed by the judgment of this court. Makrriott v. Brune,
9 How. 619.
That judgment, though criticised in Warren v. Peasee, 2
Curtis, 231, was generally regarded and acted on as laying
down a general rule establishing the validity of prospective
protests. Steegman v. Maewell, 3 Blatchford, 365; Hutton
v. SchelZ, 6 Blatchford, 48, 55, and Fowler v. Redfield, there
cited; Wetter v. Schell, 11 Blatchford, 193, 196, and Chouteau
v. _Redfield, there cited.
None of these cases were brought up to this court; and in
some of them the rule was applied under the act of March 3,
1857, c. 98, § 5, which provided that, on the entry of any merchandise, the decision of the collector of customs at the port
of importation, as to its liability to duty or exemption therefrom, should be final and conclusive against the owner, importer, consignee or agent of such merchandise, unless he
should, "within ten days after such entry, give notice to the
collector in writing of his dissatisfaction with such decision,
setting forth therein distinctly and specifically his grounds of
objection thereto," and should, "within thirty days after the
date of such decision, appeal therefrom to the Secretary of
the Treasury." 11 Stat. 195.
The phrase "within ten days after such entry" was thus
treated as fixing a terminus ad quem and not a terminus a
quo, or, in other words, as limiting the time after which a protest should not be made, but permitting it to be made as early
as it could have been made under the previous law.
The act of 1857 applied only to cases where the question
was whether the goods imported were or were' not subject to
duty at all, and left the case of goods admitted to be dutiable,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the rate and amount of duties being alone in question, to be
governed by the act of 1845, requiring the protest to be filed
at or before the time of paying the duties. Barney v. Watson, 92 U. S. 449.
We are then brought to the act of 1864, which, as already
stated, provides that, on the entry of any merchandise, the
decision of the collector as to the rate and amount of duties
shall be final and conclusive, unless the importer shall, "within
ten days after the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties
by the proper officers of the customs, give notice in writing
to the collector on each entry, if dissatisfied with his decision."
This act requires the notice of dissatisfaction with the collector's decision to be filed "within ten days after the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties," (instead of within ten
days after the entry of the goods, as in the act of 1857,) evidently for the reason stated by Mr. Justice Bradley, in Barney
v. Watson, above cited: "In most cases the amount, and in
many cases the rate, could not be ascertained until after examination and appraisement; and hence a limitation to ten
days from the time of entry would often, perhaps generally,
deprive the party of any remedy at all." 92 U. S. 453.
The act of 1864, by requiring the notice of dissatisfaction
to be given on each entry, necessarily prevents such a notice
as to any goods from being given before the entry thereof,
and precludes a prospective protest, covering future entries or
importations. Uliman v. Mur2 hy, 11 Blatchford, 354.
But the matter to which the notice of dissatisfaction applies
is the decision of the collector on the rate and amount of the
duties; the whole purpose of the notice is to give the collect6r
opportunity to revise that decision; and that purpose is as well
accomplished by giving the notice as soon as the goods have
been entered and the duties estimated by the collector, as by
postponing the giving of the notice until after the final ascertainment and liquidation of the duties has been made and
stamped upon the entry.
The clause requiring the importer to give such notice "within
ten days after the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties"
mtist thetefore, according to the fair and reasonable interpre-

DAVIES v.

MIILLER.

Opinion of the Court.

tation of the words as applied to the subject matter, be held
to fix only the terminus ad quem, the limit beyond which the
notice shall not be given, and not to fix the final ascertainment
and liquidation of the duties as the terminus a quo, or the first
point of time at which the notice may be given.
In the case at bar, the result is that the notice on each entry,
having been given after the collector's decision and before the
expiration of ten days from the date of finally stamping upon
the entry the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties, was
seasonable.
This conclusion is in accordance with a judgment of Judge
Shipman in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New
York, in October, 1878, in the case of Zeyser v. Arthur, not
reported, but mentioned in a circular of the Treasury Department of July 8, 1879, and shown by minutes produced at the
argument of the present case to have been as follows: Two
distinct entries of goods for immediate consumption were made,
the one September 15, and the other October 10, 1813, and
the duties were estimated by the collector and paid forthwith.
The notice of dissatisfaction viith the collector's decision was
given as to the first entry October 1, and as to the second
entry October 24, 1873, and each entry was stamped as finally
liquidated November 6, 1873. Judge Shipman held the protests or notices of dissatisfaction with the collector's decisions
to be seasonable, saying: "When the collector had officially
and in writing upon the entry ascertained and liquidated the
duties upon the goods named in such entry at a certain rate of
duty, a protest within ten days after such ascertainment and
liquidation and an appeal within thirty days thereafter are
good and valid as to time, although subsequently to the date
of such ascertainment, liquidation, appeal and protest the collector revises the amount of such liquidation and makes a final
ascertainment and liquidation at the same rate of duty. The
first ascertainment and liquidation is in fact a final one as to
rate. A protest and appeal within the statutory time after
the final liquidation are also good and valid. The uniform
practice in this port for many years, as to time of protest and
appeal, in conformity with this rule, which practice has beeg
VOL. cxXX-19

OCTOBER TERINL 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

sanctioned by all the officers of the government, is of much
importance in the decision of this question."
Our conclusion also accords with decisions of state courts,
expounding similar words in other statutes. Young v. The
Orheus, 119 Mass. 179; Atherton v. Corliss, 101 Mass. 40;
Levert v. -Read,54 Alabama, 529.
Some expressions of judges of this court, not having this
point before them, might seem to support the opposite conclusion, especially the language of Chief Justice Waite in Watt
v. United States, 15 Blatchford, 29, decided July 1, 1878, and
that of Mr. Justice Strong in ITlestray v. United States, 18
Wall. 322. But in Watt's case, the only question of time presented or considered related not to giving the collector notice
of dissatisfaction with his decision, but to taking an appeal to
the Secretary of the Treasury; and the adjudication of the
Chief Justice that the collector's decision upon the rate and
amount of duties, if not duly appealed from, was final and conclusive in a case where the duties had not been paid to obtain
possession of the goods, but were sued for by the United
States, was overruled, with his-concurrence, in United States
v. Schlesinger, 120 U. S.109. And in Wiestray's case, the importer never gave any notice of dissatisfaction with the collector's decision, or took any appeal to the Secretary of the
Treasury; and the only point adjudged was that the importer
was not entitled to notice from the collector of his decision, before being bound thereby or required to give a notice of dissatisfaction or take an appeal.
It was insisted by the Solicitor General that "the views of
the Department, legally expressed, so far as they appear in the
record, recognize the true interpretation of the statutes to he
that the protest must be filed after the final ascertainment and
liquidation of the duties."
But the orders and circulars of the Treasury Department,
given in evidence at the trial, either merely repeat the words
of the act of 1864, without giving them any construction; or
else clearly show that, from the time of the passage of that
act until long after the entries now in question, the practical
construction was to allow the notice of dissatisfaction to be

HAAMER v. GARFIELD MNING 00.
Syllabus.

given at any time after the collector's decision estimating the
rate and amount of duty at the time of the entry of the goods,
provided it was not given after ten days from the final ascertainment and liquidation of the duties as stamped upon the
entry.
The circular of the Treasury Department of September 30,
1878, and the opinion of the Attorney General to the Secretary of the Treasury of October 31, 1878, (16 Opinions of
Attorneys General, 197,) requiring notices of dissatisfaction,
under § 2931 of the Revised Statutes, to be filed after the final
liquidation of the duties, were based on a misconception of the
scope and effect of the decision in Wart's case, above cited.
The circular of the Treasury Department of July 8, 1879,
reestablished the practice which, as therein stated, had prevailed before that decision at the port of New York "and all
the other prominent ports of the United States, under which
protests and appeals had been recognized, both by the customs
officers and by this department, as valid if filed at any time
before the expiration of the time mentioned in the section of
law cited." And the old practice appears to have been since
constantly recognized and acted on until 1886, when the Treasury Department again undertook to establish the opposite
rule.
Judgment rever ed, and the case remanded to the Circuit
Court with directions to set aside the verdict and order a
new trial.

HAM

ER v. GARFIELD MINING AND MILLING'
COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
No. 207.

Submitted March 15,1839.-Decided April 8, 1889.

The modes of procedure in Montana being substantially the same at law and
in equity, if the trial court there calls a jury in a case where the remedy
sought is equitable, and the trial is conducted in the same manner as a
trial of an issue at law, and there is a general finding by the jury, and the

