CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1983

AUTRY v. ESTELLE, DIRECTOR, TEXAS
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-197.

Decided October 3, 1983

After applicant's murder conviction and death sentence were affirmed by
the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals, and his habeas corpus petition in
the state system was denied, he filed for habeas corpus in Federal District Court, presenting some of the same claims that had been unavailing
in the state system. The District Court denied the writ, and the United
States Court of Appeals affirmed. Applicant then sought a stay of his
sentence from the Circuit Justice, who referred the application to the
Court.
Held: The application for stay is denied where fewer than four Justices
would grant certiorari. And this Court will not adopt a rule calling for
an automatic stay, regardless of the merits presented, where the applicant is seeking review of the denial of his first federal habeas corpus petition. Here, neither the District Court nor the Court of Appeals found
sufficient merit in any of applicant's claims to warrant setting aside his
conviction or sentence, and the Court of Appeals did not find that a stay
of applicant's sentence pending certiorari was warranted.
Application for stay denied.
PER CURIAM.

Applicant was sentenced to death for killing two people
while robbing a convenience store. His conviction and sentence were affirmed by the Texas Court of Criminal Ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Per Curiam

464 U. S.

peals. Autry v. State, 626 S. W. 2d 758 (1982). We denied
certiorari. 459 U. S. 882 (1982). Applicant then sought
habeas corpus in the state system; that request was denied.
He then filed for habeas corpus in the Federal District Court,
presenting some of the same claims that had been unavailing
in the state courts. The District Court held a hearing and
filed an opinion denying the writ. In a detailed opinion, the
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed the judgment
of the District Court. 706 F. 2d 1394 (1983). It denied
rehearing, as well as a stay pending the filing of a petition
for certiorari in this Court. Applicant then sought a stay
from the Circuit Justice, who referred the application to
the Court. Absent a stay, applicant will be executed on
October 5.
The application for stay is denied. The grounds on which
applicant would request certiorari are amply evident from his
application and from the opinions and the proceedings in the
District Court and the Court of Appeals. Had applicant convinced four Members of the Court that certiorari would be
granted on any of his claims, a stay would issue. But this is
not the case; fewer than four Justices would grant certiorari.
Applicant thus fails to satisfy one of the basic requirements
for the issuance of a stay.
Nor are we inclined to adopt a rule calling for an automatic
stay, regardless of the merits of the claims presented, where
the applicant is seeking review of the denial of his first federal habeas corpus petition. Applicant has twice sought relief in the state court system. He has also presented his
claims to the United States District Court and to the Court of
Appeals. None of these judges found sufficient merit in any
of applicant's claims to warrant setting aside applicant's conviction or his death sentence. Nor did any of the judges of
the Court of Appeals believe that a stay pending certiorari
was warranted. Those judges, stating that they were "fully
sensitive to the consequence of our judgment and our oaths,"
706 F. 2d, at 1408, found each of applicant's claims to be without merit and affirmed the dismissal of his habeas corpus

AUTRY v. ESTELLE

1

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

petition. In these circumstances, it is quite appropriate to
deny a stay of applicant's sentence, just as we do in other
criminal cases that we are convinced do not merit review in
this Court. As the Court said just last Term in Barefoot v.
Estelle, 463 U. S. 880, 887-888 (1983):
"[I]t must be remembered that direct appeal is the primary avenue for review of a conviction or sentence, and
death penalty cases are no exception. When the process
of direct review-which, if a federal question is involved,
includes the right to petition this Court for a writ of certiorari-comes to an end, a presumption of finality and
legality attaches to the conviction and sentence. The
role of federal habeas proceedings, while important in assuring that constitutional rights are observed, is secondary and limited. Federal courts are not forums in which
to relitigate state trials. Even less is federal habeas
a means by which a defendant is entitled to delay an
execution indefinitely. The procedures adopted to facilitate the orderly consideration and disposition of habeas petitions are not legal entitlements that a defendant
has a right to pursue irrespective of the contribution
these procedures make toward uncovering constitutional
error."
JUSTICE BRENNAN, with whom JUSTICE MARSHALL joins,
dissenting.
I join JUSTICE STEVENS' dissent, and because I continue to
adhere to my view that the death penalty is in all circumstances cruel and unusual punishment prohibited by the
Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments, Gregg v. Georgia, 428
U. S. 153, 227 (1976) (BRENNAN, J., dissenting), I would, in
any case, grant the application for a stay of execution.
JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom JUSTICE BRENNAN, JUSTICE MARSHALL, and JUSTICE BLACKMUN join, dissenting.

Last year the applicant's death sentence was affirmed by
the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals. Autry v. State, 626

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

464 U. S.

S. W. 2d 758, cert. denied, 459 U. S. 882 (1982). On January 14, 1983, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas denied the applicant's first petition for a
writ of habeas corpus pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 2254 after
holding an evidentiary hearing. On June 17, 1983, after full
briefing and argument, the United States Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit issued a carefully prepared 16-page opinion affirming the District Court's denial of the petition. 706
F. 2d 1394. Rehearing was denied on August 4, 1983, and on
September 1, 1983, Texas authorities scheduled the applicant
to be executed on October 5, 1983. He has applied for a stay
of execution pending filing and disposition of a petition for
a writ of certiorari. The Texas Attorney General does not
oppose the stay application.
The time in which the applicant may file a petition for a
writ of certiorari in this Court will not expire until November
2, 1983-four weeks after his scheduled execution. Thus,
unless a stay is granted, the applicant will be executed before
the applicant's time for petitioning this Court for a writ of
certiorari expires.
The stay application makes it clear that the applicant's
claims are not frivolous. Moreover, since this is the applicant's first federal habeas corpus proceeding, we are not confronted with the prospect of indefinite delay of execution
which exists when an applicant has burdened the judicial system with successive federal petitions. On the other hand, on
the basis of the papers that have been filed to date, I must
acknowledge that I am presently of the opinion that this applicant will be unable to establish that a writ of certiorari
should issue. My opinion, however, is necessarily tentative
because the stay application contains only a synopsis of the
arguments that counsel intends to make in a certiorari petition that has yet to be filed.
The decision to grant or to deny a stay pending the filing of
a petition for a writ of certiorari depends on our assessment
of the likelihood that such a petition will be granted and a bal-

AUTRY v. ESTELLE
1

STEVENS, J., dissenting

ancing of the relative hardships of the parties. When a denial of a stay merely subjects the applicant to a continuing
harm pending our decision on a subsequently filed certiorari
petition, it is appropriate to deny the application unless the
applicant demonstrates a likelihood that his petition will be
granted. If it transpires that our tentative assessment of his
case was incorrect, that error can be corrected by granting
the subsequently filed certiorari petition, though naturally
nothing can eliminate the interim harm the applicant suffered. In the instant case, however, a decision on the application is a final decision on the certiorari question-a decision
to deny the stay renders a petition moot. The impact of our
decision is therefore in no sense tentative, but our assessment of the case can only be a tentative one because it is
based on probability rather than actuality. Accordingly, a
preliminary negative evaluation of the certiorari question
should not be the end of our analysis; we should also balance
the relative hardships on the parties. I would strike that
balance in favor of any applicant raising a nonfrivolous challenge to his capital conviction in his first federal habeas proceeding. In such a case, the importance of fully informed
consideration of the certiorari question predominates over
the interests of the State in expeditious execution of its
judgment.
In one sense, the practical question that is raised by this
stay application is whether the Court should give habeas petitioners on death row the same time to prepare and file certiorari petitions that other litigants receive. Unless the
claims are frivolous, I believe that the overriding interest in
the evenhanded administration of justice would be served by
according an individual raising his first federal habeas challenge to his capital conviction the same opportunity to seek
review in this Court as is accorded to other individuals.
The practice adopted by the majority effectively confers
upon state authorities the power to dictate the period in
which these federal habeas petitioners may seek review in

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

464 U. S.

this Court by scheduling an execution prior to the expiration
of the period for filing a certiorari petition. Shortening the
period allowed for filing a petition on such an ad hoc basis injects uncertainty and disparity into the review procedure,
adds to the burdens of counsel, distorts the deliberative process within this Court, and increases the risk of error. Procedural shortcuts are always dangerous. * Greater-surely
not lesser-care should be taken to avoid the risk of error
when its consequences are irreversible.
I respectfully dissent.

*"In my opinion the preservation of order in our communities will be best
ensured by adherence to established and respected procedures. Resort to
procedural expediency may facilitate an occasional conviction, but it may
also make martyrs of common criminals." Groppi v. Leslie, 436 F. 2d 331,
336 (CA7 1971) (en bane) (Stevens, J., dissenting).

ALOHA AIRLINES, INC. v. DIRECTOR OF TAXATION

7

Syllabus

ALOHA AIRLINES, INC. v. DIRECTOR OF TAXATION
OF HAWAII
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF HAWAII
No. 82-585.

Argued October 4, 1983-Decided November 1, 1983*

A Hawaii statute imposes a tax on the annual gross income of airlines operating within the State, and declares that such tax is a means of taxing
an airline's personal property. Section 7(a) of the Airport Development
Acceleration Act of 1973 (ADAA) prohibits a State from levying a tax,
"directly or indirectly, on persons traveling in air commerce or on the
carriage of persons traveling in air commerce or on the sale of air
transportation or on the gross receipts derived therefrom," but provides
that property taxes are not included in this prohibition. Appellant airlines each brought an action for refund of taxes assessed under the Hawaii statute, claiming that the statute was pre-empted by § 7(a). The
Hawaii Tax Appeal Court rejected this pre-emption argument, and the
Hawaii Supreme Court affirmed.
Held: Section 7(a) pre-empts the Hawaii statute. Pp. 11-15.
(a) When a federal statute unambiguously forbids a State to impose a
particular kind of tax on an industry affecting interstate commerce, as
§ 7(a) does here by its plain language, courts need not look beyond the
federal statute's plain language to determine whether a state statute
that imposes such a tax is pre-empted. P. 12.
(b) Moreover, nothing in the ADAA's legislative history suggests that
Congress intended to limit § 7(a)'s pre-emptive effect to taxes on airline
passengers or to save gross receipts taxes such as the one Hawaii imposes. Although §7(a) was enacted to deal primarily with local head
taxes on airline passengers, the legislative history contains many references to the fact that §7(a) pre-empts state taxes on gross receipts of
airlines. Pp. 12-13.
(c) The fact that the Hawaii tax is styled as a property tax measured
by gross receipts rather than as a straightforward gross receipts tax
does not entitle the tax to escape pre-emption under §7(a)'s property tax
exemption. Such styling of the tax does not mask the fact that the purpose and effect of the tax are to impose a levy upon the gross receipts
*Together with No. 82-586, HawaiianAirlines, Inc. v. Director of Taxation of Hawaii, also on appeal from the same court.

