OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Syllabus

464 U. S.

McDONOUGH POWER EQUIPMENT, INC. v.
GREENWOOD ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE TENTH CIRCUIT
No. 82-958.

Argued November 28, 1983-Decided January 18, 1984

Respondent parents and son sued petitioner in Federal District Court to
recover damages sustained by the son when his feet came in contact with
the blades of a riding lawnmower manufactured by petitioner. After a
trial that extended over a 3-week period, the District Court entered
judgment for petitioner upon a jury verdict and denied respondents' motion for a new trial. One of the grounds alleged for a new trial was that
the District Court had erred in denying respondents' motion to approach
the jury after the judgment was entered because one of the jurors had
not responded to a question on voir dire seeking to elicit information
about previous "injuries... that resulted in any disability or prolonged
pain or suffering" to members of the juror's immediate family when in
fact the juror's son had sustained a broken leg as a result of an exploding
tire. The Court of Appeals reversed, holding that the juror's failure
to respond affirmatively to the question on voir dire had prejudiced
respondents' right of peremptory challenge.
Held: Respondents are not entitled to a new trial unless the juror's failure
to disclose denied them their right to an impartial jury. Courts should
exercise judgment in preference to the automatic reversal for "error"
and ignore errors that do not affect the essential fairness of a trial. To
invalidate the result of a 3-week trial because of a juror's mistaken,
though honest, response to a question, is to insist on something closer to
perfection than our judicial system can be expected to give. It ill serves
the important end of finality to wipe the slate clean simply to recreate
the peremptory challenge process because counsel lacked an item of
information that he should have obtained from a juror on voir dire examination. The Court of Appeals' standard is contrary to the practical
necessities of judicial management reflected in Federal Rule of Civil
Procedure 61 and the harmless-error statute, 28 U. S. C. § 2111. To
obtain a new trial in such a situation, a party must first demonstrate
that a juror failed to answer honestly a material question on voir dire
and then further show that a correct response would have provided a
valid basis for a challenge for cause. Pp. 553-556.
687 F. 2d 338, reversed.

McDONOUGH POWER EQUIPMENT, INC. v. GREENWOOD 549
548

Opinion of the Court

REHNQUIST, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
C. J., and WHITE, BLACKMUN, POWELL, STEVENS, and O'CONNOR, JJ.,
joined. BLACKMUN, J., filed a concurring opinion, in which STEVENS and
O'CONNOR, JJ., joined, post, p. 556. BRENNAN, J., filed an opinion con-

curring in the judgment, in which MARSHALL, J., joined, post, p. 557.

Donald Patterson argued the cause and filed briefs for
petitioner.
Gene E. Schroer argued the cause for respondents. With
him on the brief was Dan L. Wulz.*
JUSTICE REHNQUIST delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondents, Billy Greenwood and his parents, sued petitioner McDonough Power Equipment, Inc., to recover damages sustained by Billy when his feet came in contact with the
blades of a riding lawnmower manufactured by petitioner.
The United States District Court for the District of Kansas
entered judgment for petitioner upon a jury verdict and denied respondents' motion for new trial. tOn appeal, however,
the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit reversed the judgment of the District Court and ordered a new trial. It held
that the failure of a juror to respond affirmatively to a question on voir dire seeking to elicit information about previous injuries to members of the juror's immediate family had
"prejudiced the Greenwoods' right to peremptory challenge,"
687 F. 2d 338, 342 (1982), and that a new trial was necessary
to cure this error. We granted certiorari, 462 U. S. 1130
(1983), and now hold that respondents are not entitled to a
new trial unless the juror's failure to disclose denied respondents their right to an impartial jury.
During the voir dire prior to the empaneling of the sixmember jury, respondents' attorney asked prospective jurors
the following question:
*JerryL. Beane filed a brief for Southern Union Co. as amicus curiae
urging affirmance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion of the Court

464 U. S.

"Now, how many of you have yourself or any members of
your immediate family sustained any severe injury, not

necessarily as severe as Billy, but sustained any injuries
whether it was an accident at home, or on the farm or at
work that resulted in any disability or prolonged pain
and suffering, that is you or any members of your immediate family?" App. 19.
Ronald Payton, who eventually became a juror, did not re-

spond to this question, which was addressed to the panel as a
whole. After a trial which extended over a 3-week period,
the jury found for petitioner McDonough.1 Four days after
judgment was entered for petitioner, respondents moved
under local Rule 23A for permission to approach the members of the jury. In support of their motion respondents asserted that they were of "information and belief" that juror
Payton's son may have been injured at one time, a fact which
had not been revealed during voir dire. Id., at 68. The Dis-

trict Court ruled that respondents had failed to show just
cause to approach the jury.

Id., at 73.

Undeterred, the next day respondents filed a second motion for permission to approach the jury, attaching an affida-

vit from respondent John Greenwood,' who asserted that in
'Although respondents sued only petitioner McDonough, under Kansas
law, which applied in this diversity action, the jury was permitted to consider the relative fault of three nondefendants: Jeff Morris, a next-door
neighbor who was operating the lawnmower involved in the accident, Jeff's
father, and Billy's mother. The jury assessed Billy's damages in the
amount of $375,000, and found Jeff Morris 20% at fault, Jeff's father 45% at
fault, and Billy's mother 35% at fault. The jury determined that petitioner McDonough's percentage of fault was zero.
IIt is not clear from the opinion of the Court of Appeals whether the
information stated in Greenwood's affidavit was known to respondents or
their counsel at the time of the voir dire examination. If it were, of
course, respondents would be barred from later challenging the composition of the jury when they had chosen not to interrogate juror Payton further upon receiving an answer which they thought to be factually incorrect.
See Johnson v. Hill, 274 F. 2d 110, 115-116 (CA8 1960).

McDONOUGH POWER EQUIPMENT, INC. v. GREENWOOD
548

551

Opinion of the Court

the course of his employment as a Navy recruiter, he had
reviewed the enlistment application of juror Payton's son.
In that application Payton's son stated that he had been
injured in the explosion of a truck tire. The District Court
granted respondents permission to approach juror Payton
regarding the injuries allegedly sustained by his son. The
District Court directed that the inquiry should be brief and
polite and made in a manner convenient to the juror. The
District Court noted that it was not "overly impressed with
the significance of this particular situation." Id., at 89. No
provision was made to record the inquiry of juror Payton.
On the same day that the District Court granted respondents permission to approach juror Payton, respondents
moved for a new trial, asserting 18 grounds in justification,
including the District Court's alleged error in denying respondents' motion to approach the jury. This was the only
instance when respondents even tangentially referred the
District Court to the juror's failure to respond as a ground
for a new trial. Shortly after the parties placed a telephone
conference call to juror Payton, the District Court denied
respondents' motion for a new trial, finding that the "matter
was fairly and thoroughly tried and that the jury's verdict
was a just one, well-supported by the evidence." Id., at 106.
The District Court was never informed of the results of the
examination of juror Payton, nor did respondents ever directly assert before the District Court that juror Payton's
nondisclosure warranted a new trial.
On appeal, the Court of Appeals proceeded directly to the
merits of respondents' claim that juror Payton's silence had
prejudiced their right to exercise peremptory challenges,
rather than remanding the case back to the District Court
for a hearing.' The Court of Appeals simply recited the
'Although neither party challenges the propriety of the Court of
Appeals' having disposed of the question on the merits, we believe that
the proper resolution of the legal issue should be made by the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion of the Court

464 U. S.

recollections of counsel for each party of their conference
telephone call with juror Payton contained in their appellate
briefs, stating that the "unrevealed information" indicated
probable bias "because it revealed a particularly narrow concept of what constitutes a serious injury." 687 F. 2d, at 343.
The Court of Appeals assumed that juror Payton had answered in good faith, but stated:
"Good faith, however, is irrelevant to our inquiry. If
an average prospective juror would have disclosed the
information, and that information would have been significant and cogent evidence of the juror's probable bias,
a new trial is required to rectify the failure to disclose
it." Ibid. (citation omitted).
Court. See infra, at 556. Nevertheless, we address the issue in order to
correct the legal standard the District Court should apply upon remand.
Both parties apparently agree that during the telephone conversation
with juror Payton, he related that his son had received a broken leg as the
result of an exploding tire. Counsel for respondents in their brief to the
Court of Appeals recalled Payton saying that "'it did not make any difference whether his son had been in an accident and was seriously injured,'"
"'that having accidents are a part of life,"' and that "'all his children have
been involved in accidents."' Brief for Appellants in No. 80-1698 (CA10),
p. 7. Counsel for petitioners recall Payton as saying that he "did not regard [his son's broken leg] as a 'severe' injury and as he understood the
question [the injury] did not result in any 'disability or prolonged pain and
suffering.' As far as Mr. Payton is concerned he answered counsel's question honestly, and correctly, by remaining silent." Brief for Appellee in
No. 80-1698 (CA10), p. 18.
Nevertheless, the manner in which the parties presented the issue of
juror Payton's failure to respond on voir dire was highly unorthodox.
While considerations of judicial economy might have motivated the Court
of Appeals in this case to proceed directly to the issue of the effect of juror
Payton's nondisclosure, in cases in which a party is asserting a ground for
new trial, the normal procedure is to remand such issues to the district
court for resolution. Although petitioner does not dispute respondents'
version of the telephone call to juror Payton, it is foreseeable that in another such case, the parties could present the appellate court with a continuing, difficult factual dispute. Appellate tribunals are poor substitutes
for trial courts for developing a record or resolving factual controversies.

McDONOUGH POWER EQUIPMENT, INC. v. GREENWOOD 553
548

Opinion of the Court

This Court has long held that "'[a litigant] is entitled to
a fair trial but not a perfect one,' for there are no perfect
trials." Brown v. United States, 411 U. S. 223, 231-232
(1973), quoting Bruton v. United States, 391 U. S. 123, 135
(1968), and Lutwak v. United States, 344 U. S.604, 619 (1953).
Trials are costly, not only for the parties, but also for the jurors performing their civic duty and for society which pays
the judges and support personnel who manage the trials. It
seems doubtful that our judicial system would have the resources to provide litigants with perfect trials, were they
possible, and still keep abreast of its constantly increasing
caseload. Even this straightforward products liability suit
extended over a 3-week period.
We have also come a long way from the time when all trial
error was presumed prejudicial and reviewing courts were
considered "'citadels of technicality."' Kotteakos v. United
States, 328 U. S. 750, 759 (1946), quoting Kavanagh, Improvement of Administration of Criminal Justice by Exercise
of Judicial Power, 11 A. B. A. J. 217, 222 (1925). The
harmless-error rules adopted by this Court and Congress embody the principle that courts should exercise judgment in
preference to the automatic reversal for "error" and ignore
errors that do not affect the essential fairness of the trial.
See Kotteakos, supra,at 759-760. For example, the general
rule governing motions for a new trial in the district courts
is contained in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 61, which
provides:
"No error ...

or defect in any ruling or order or in

anything done or omitted by the court or by any of the
parties is ground for granting a new trial or for setting
aside a verdict ... unless refusal to take such action

appears to the court inconsistent with substantial justice. The court at every stage of the proceeding must
disregard any error or defect in the proceeding which
does not affect the substantial rights of the parties."
(Emphasis added.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion of the Court

464 U. S.

While in a narrow sense Rule 61 applies only to the district
courts, see Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 1, it is well settled that the
appellate courts should act in accordance with the salutary
policy embodied in Rule 61. See, e. g., Keaton v. Atchison,
T. & S. F. R. Co., 321 F. 2d 317, 319 (CA7 1963); Box v.
Swindle, 306 F. 2d 882, 887 (CA5 1962); De Santa v. Nehi
Corp., 171 F. 2d 696, 698 (CA2 1948). Congress has further
reinforced the application of Rule 61 by enacting the
harmless-error statute, 28 U. S. C. §2111, which applies
directly to appellate courts and which incorporates the same
principle as that found in Rule 61. See Tipton v. Socony
Mobil Oil Co., 375 U. S. 34, 37 (1963); United States v. Borden Co., 347 U. S. 514, 516, and n. 5 (1954).'
The ruling of the Court of Appeals in this case must be assessed against this background. One touchstone of a fair
trial is an impartial trier of fact-"a jury capable and willing
to decide the case solely on the evidence before it." Smith v.
Phillips, 455 U. S. 209, 217 (1982). Voir dire examination
serves to protect that right by exposing possible biases, both
known and unknown, on the part of potential jurors. Demonstrated bias in the responses to questions on voir dire may
result in a juror's being excused for cause; hints of bias not
sufficient to warrant challenge for cause may assist parties in
exercising their peremptory challenges. The necessity of
truthful answers by prospective jurors if this process is to
serve its purpose is obvious.
'The text of 28 U. S. C. §2111 reads in full:
"On the hearing of any appeal or writ of certiorari in any case, the court
shall give judgment after an examination of the record without regard to
errors or defects which do not affect the substantial rights of the parties."
This provision traces its lineage to the harmless-error provision of § 269
of the former Judicial Code, which was enacted in 1919. Act of Feb. 26,
1919, ch. 48, 40 Stat. 1181; see Kotteakos v. United States, 328 U. S. 750,
758-762 (1946); C. Wright & A. Miller, Federal Practice and Procedure
§ 2881 (1973).

McDONOUGH POWER EQUIPMENT, INC. v. GREENWOOD 555
548

Opinion of the Court

The critical question posed to juror Payton in this case
asked about "injuries .

.

. that resulted in any disability or

prolonged pain or suffering." App. 19. Juror Payton apparently believed that his son's broken leg sustained as a result of an exploding tire was not such an injury. In response
to a similar question from petitioner's counsel, however, another juror related such a minor incident as the fact that his
6-year-old son once caught his finger in a bike chain. Id.,
at 52. Yet another juror failed to respond to the question
posed to juror Payton, and only the subsequent questioning
of petitioner's counsel brought out that her husband had been
injured in a machinery accident. Id., at 19, 53-54.
The varied responses to respondents' question on voir dire
testify to the fact that jurors are not necessarily experts in
English usage. Called as they are from all walks of life,
many may be uncertain as to the meaning of terms which are
relatively easily understood by lawyers and judges. Moreover, the statutory qualifications for jurors require only a
minimal competency in the English language. 28 U. S. C.
§ 1865 (1976 ed. and Supp. V). Thus, we cannot say, and we
doubt that the Court of Appeals could say, which of these
three jurors was closer to the "average juror" in his or her
response to the question, but it is evident that such a standard is difficult to apply and productive of uncertainties.
To invalidate the result of a 3-week trial because of a
juror's mistaken, though honest, response to a question, is
to insist on something closer to perfection than our judicial
system can be expected to give. A trial represents an important investment of private and social resources, and it ill
serves the important end of finality to wipe the slate clean
simply to recreate the peremptory challenge process because
counsel lacked an item of information which objectively he
should have obtained from a juror on voir dire examination.
Whatever the merits of the Court of Appeals' standard in
a world which would redo and reconstruct what had gone

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
BLACKMUN, J., concurring

464 U. S.

before upon any evidence of abstract imperfection, we think
it is contrary to the practical necessities of judicial management reflected in Rule 61 and § 2111. We hold that to obtain
a new trial in such a situation, a party must first demonstrate
that a juror failed to answer honestly a material question on
voir dire, -and then further show that a correct response
would have provided a valid basis for a challenge for cause.
The motives for concealing information may vary, but only
those reasons that affect a juror's impartiality can truly be
said to affect the fairness of a trial.
Generally, motions for a new trial are committed to the discretion of the district court. Montgomery Ward & Co. v.
Duncan, 311 U. S. 243, 251 (1940). The Court of Appeals
was mistaken in deciding as it did that respondents were entitled to a new trial. In the event that the issue remains relevant after the Court of Appeals has disposed of respondents'
other contentions on appeal, the District Court may hold a
hearing to determine whether respondents are entitled to a
new trial under the principles we state here. The judgment
of the Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
JUSTICE BLACKMUN, with whom JUSTICE STEVENS and

join, concurring.
I agree with the Court that the proper inquiry in this case
is whether the plaintiffs had the benefit of an impartial trier
of fact. I also agree that, in most cases, the honesty or dishonesty of a juror's response is the best initial indicator of
whether the juror in fact was impartial. I therefore join the
Court's opinion, but I write separately to state that I understand the Court's holding not to foreclose the normal avenue
of relief available to a party who is asserting that he did not
have the benefit of an impartial jury. Thus, regardless of
whether a juror's answer is honest or dishonest, it remains
within a trial court's option, in determining whether a jury
was biased, to order a post-trial hearing at which the movant
has the opportunity to demonstrate actual bias or, in excep-

JUSTICE O'CONNOR

McDONOUGH POWER EQUIPMENT, INC. v. GREENWOOD 557
548

BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

tional circumstances, that the facts are such that bias is to
be inferred. See Smith v. Phillips, 455 U. S. 209, 215-216
(1982); id., at 221-224 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring).
JUSTICE BRENNAN,

with whom JUSTICE MARSHALL joins,

concurring in the judgment.
I agree with the Court that the Court of Appeals employed
an erroneous legal standard to determine whether a new trial
was required in this case, and that the Court of Appeals compounded that error by failing to remand the case to the District Court for a hearing and decision on the motion for new
trial in the first instance. I concur only in the judgment,
however, because I have difficulty understanding the import
of the legal standard adopted by the Court.
The Court of Appeals ordered a new trial because Ronald
Payton, who later was chosen as, jury foreman, incorrectly
answered an important question posed to prospective jurors
on voir dire. Specifically, although asked whether any family members had "sustained any injuries ...

that resulted in

any disability or prolonged pain or suffering," Payton failed
to disclose a previous injury his son had incurred in a trucktire explosion. The court concluded that, because the information available to counsel during voir dire was erroneous, Payton's failure to respond "prejudiced the Greenwoods'
right to peremptory challenge." 687 F. 2d 338, 342 (CA10
1982). It therefore held that the Greenwoods' motion for a
new trial should have been granted, and entered judgment
granting the motion.
I agree with the Court that a finding that less than complete information was available to counsel conducting voir
dire does not by itself require a new trial. I cannot join,
however, in the legal standard asserted by the Court's opinion. In my view, the proper focus when ruling on a motion
for new trial in this situation should be on the bias of the
juror and the resulting prejudice to the litigant. More specifically, to be awarded a new trial, a litigant should be required to demonstrate that the juror incorrectly responded to

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

464 U. S.

a material question on voir dire, and that, under the facts and
circumstances surrounding the particular case, the juror was
biased against the moving litigant. See, e. g., McCoy v.
Goldston, 652 F. 2d 654, 659-660 (CA6 1981).
When applying this standard, a court should recognize that
"[t]he bias of a prospective juror may be actual or implied;
that is, it may be bias in fact or bias conclusively presumed
as [a] matter of law." United States v. Wood, 299 U. S. 123,
133 (1936). See also Smith v. Phillips, 455 U. S. 209, 221224 (1982) (O'CONNOR, J., concurring). Because the bias of
a juror will rarely be admitted by the juror himself, "partly
because the juror may have an interest in concealing his own
bias and partly because the juror may be unaware of it," id.,
at 221-222, it necessarily must be inferred from surrounding facts and circumstances. Therefore, for a court to determine properly whether bias exists, it must consider at least
two questions: are there any facts in the case suggesting that
bias should be conclusively presumed; and, if not, is it more
probable than not that the juror was actually biased against
the litigant. Whether the juror answered a particular question on voir dire honestly or dishonestly, or whether an inaccurate answer was inadvertent or intentional, are simply
factors to be considered in this latter determination of actual bias.* I therefore cannot agree with the Court when it
*The Court of Appeals recognized several other factors in this case, not
completely acknowledged by the Court's opinion, which might suggest that
juror Payton was biased or that his potential bias resulted in prejudice to
the Greenwoods. For example, by claiming during his informal examination after trial that "having accidents are a part of life," Payton may have
displayed insufficient sensitivity to the Greenwoods' claims in this product
liability action. This potential bias could only have been exacerbated by
the fact that Payton served as foreman of the jury. Moreover, the jury
initially returned a verdict assessing $0.00 in damages despite the fact
that Billy Greenwood lost both his feet in the lawnmower accident; only
upon reconvening after being admonished by the trial judge did the jury
assess damages totaling $375,000. These factors should be considered
along with any other relevant facts and circumstances by the District
Court on remand.

McDONOUGH POWER EQUIPMENT, INC. v. GREENWOOD 559
548

BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

asserts that a new trial is not warranted whenever a prospective juror provides an honest answer to the question posed.
Cf. ante, at 556. One easily can imagine cases in which a
prospective juror provides what he subjectively believes to
be an honest answer, yet that same answer is objectively incorrect and therefore suggests that the individual would be a
biased juror in the particular case.
Given the nature of this legal standard, and given that no
claim is raised in this case that bias should be conclusively
presumed, the Court of Appeals clearly erred by deciding the
issue of juror bias itself rather than remanding the issue to
the District Court for a hearing and decision in the first instance. Motions for new trial on the basis of juror bias are
left to the sound discretion of the trial court, and its determination should not be lightly disturbed by an appellate
court. This is especially true when decision on the motion
turns, as it does here, on the particular facts and circumstances involved. See ante, at 551-552, n. 3, and 556. The
trial court in this case, however, did not reach the point of
exercising discretion because it never was notified about the
results of the informal examination of juror Payton. Accordingly, the case should be remanded to the District Court for a
hearing and decision consistent with the principles outlined
above.

