OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Argument for Appellants.

WESTERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY & Another
v. UNITED STATES.
APPE Al FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT

OF CALIFORNIA.

Practice-PublicLands.
In a suit brought by a District Attorney of the United States to set aside a
patent conveying public lands, objection was taken in this court that it
does not sufficiently appear that the suit was brought under authority from
the Attorney-General Hedd, That, the objection not having been taken below, the fact of such authority could be inquired into and shown here.
On the evidence it appeared that the lands in question were mineral lands, and
were known to be such by the applicant for the patent, and agent for the
railroad company, at the time of the application. The patent was set
aside.

The bill was filed in the court below in February, 1877.
Hearing was had on the evidence, and in June, 1878, a decree
was rendered setting aside the letter patent as "issued by mistake and without authority of law." The bill did not disclose
any authority from the attorney-general to bring the suit, nor
was such authority shown in the court belov, nor was any objection taken for the want of the averment or the proof of
such authority. The controversy below, upon the facts, was in
regard to the character of the lands, whether mineral or not;
and, upon the law, in regard to the effect of the acts of the
agents of the United States upon the patentee's title. The defendants below appealed from the decree.
_Mr. Henry Beard for the appellants.-I. It does not appear
in the pleadings or decree that the United States, by its
attorney-general, authorized the filing of the bill in this cause.
This should have been averred in the bill. United States v.
Trockmorton, 98 U. S. 61.-IL The lands in question were
not mineral lands within the meaning of that term as defined
by acts of Congress. In the act of July 26th, 1866, 14 Stat.
251, c. 262, ยง 2, mineral lands are defined as "a vein or lode of
quartz, or other rock in place, bearing gold, cinnabar, or
copper," in the act of July 9th, 1870, 16 Stat. ch. 217, 235,

WESTERN PACIFIC R.R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

511

Opinion of the Court.

ยง 12, they are described as "valuable mineral deposits in lands,"
and in Rev. Stat. ยง 2318, as "lands valuable for minerals."
The lands in question were, in the regular administration of the
land laws, surveyed and ascertained to be non-mineral lands,
and patented as such. A second survey, after the United
States has parted with the land, .is inoperative to affect the
patent.-III. The third point discusses the evidence.
Yr.A.ssistant Atnrney-GeneraZ .Mawry for the United States
discussed the evidence, and presented the following letter from
the attorney-general directing the commencement of suit.
" DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE,
"WASHINGTON,

Ta.uary 17th, 1877.

I. COGHLAN, IT. S. Attorney, San Francisco, California.
1'SIR,-I enclose a copy of a letter of the 16th instant, addressed to me by the Secretary of the Interior, and the enclosures
therewith, to wit : A copy of the report to the Secretary by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, and a copy of a letter
of March 14th, 1874, addressed by the then commissioner to the
register and receiver at San Francisco.
"As requested by the Secretary, you will cause legal proceedings to be instituted to vacate the patent to the Western Pacific
Company of California for the N. E. one-fourth of section 29, T.
1 N., R. 1 E., Mount Diabolo meridian.
"Very respectfully,
"JOHN

"ALPHoNso TAFT,

"Attorney- General."
JusnE MILLE delivered the opinion of the court.
John M. Coghlan, district attorney of the United States for
the District of California, on behalf of the United States,
brought the bill in this case in the circuit court of that district
against the Western Pacific Railroad Company and Charles
McLaughlin to set aside a patent of the United States conveying to the railroad company the northeast quarter of section 29,
township one (1) north, range one (1) east, of Mount Diabolo
meridian.
This patent was made under the acts of Congress granting
M-.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

lands to the Union Pacific, Central Pacific, and Western Pacific
Railroad Companies, to aid in building a road from the T'Kissouri River to the Pacific Ocean.
The acts of Congress granted to each company the alternate
sections within certain limits on each side of its road, and authorized the issue of patents for the same when the work was
done and the sections ascertained. But they excepted out of
this grant, among others, such sections or parts of sections as
were mineral lands.
The bill in this case alleges, as the reason for vacating and
setting aside the patent, that the quarter-section in question is
mineral land, that it was so at the time of the grant, and was
known to be so when the patent issued, which was so issued
without authority of law by inadvertence and mistake.
The patent itself is not in the record as an exhibit, or as part
of the evidence. The Western Pacific Railroad Company, to
whom it was issued, though made defendant in the bill, was
not served with the subpcena and did not appear. McLaughlin, the only defendant who did appear, defends as purchaser two degrees removed from the company. Instead of a
general replication to McLaughlin's answer, the reply is an
amendment to the original bill.
The whole record is so imperfect and the case so obscurely
presented, that we feel tempted to dismiss it.
Waiving, however, these objections, there is enough to enable
us to consider the two principal errors assigned by appellant.
The first of these is that there is no sufficient evidence that
the suit was instituted under the authority of the AttorneyGeneral, according to the principle established in the case of
United States v. Tkrockmorton, 98 U. S. 61.
To this it may be answered that the objection was not raised
in this case in the court below, as it was in that; that the case
is argued in this court on behalf of the government by the
Assistant Attorney-General, who files in the court a certified
copy of the order of the Attorney-General directing the district
attorney to bring the suit in the circuit court, as requested by
the Secretary of the Interior.
We think the decree of that court, under these circumstances,

WESTERN PACIFIC R.R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

513

Opinion of the Court.
can hardly be reversed now, on this ground, taken here for the
first time.
The other objection to the decree in favor of the United
States is that the evidence does not establish as a fact that the
land in controversy was mineral land when the patent issued.
An examination of the evidence on this subject convinces us
that the circuit judge was right in holding that it was. It is
satisfactorily proven, as we think, that cinnabar, the mineral
which carries quicksilver, was found there as early as 1863, that
a man named Powell resided on the land and mined this cinnabar at that time, and in 1866 established some form of reduction works there; that these were on the ground when application for the patent was made by defendant McLaughlin, as
agent of the Western Pacific Railroad Company, and that these
facts were known to him. He is not, therefore, an innocent purchaser. Concurring as we do with the circuit court in the
result arising from the evidence, we do not deem it necessary
to give in this opinion a detailed examination of it.
This being the first case of the kind in this court, a class of
cases which may possibly be indefinitely multiplied, it is to be regretted that it was not more fully presented in the circuit court.
Many interesting questions might arise in this class of cases not
proper to be considered in this case. For instance, the nature
and extent of mineral found in the land granted or patented
which will bring it within the designation of mineral land in
the various acts of Congress, in which it is excepted out of
grants to railroad companies and forbidden to be sold or preempted as ordinary or agricultural lands are.
Suppose that when such land has been conveyed by the government it is afterwards discovered that it contains valuable
deposits of the precious metals, unknown to the patentee or to
the officers of the government at the time of the conveyance,
will such subsequent discovery enable the government to sustain a suit to set aside the patent or the grant? If so, what
are the rights of innocent purchasers from the grantee, and
what limitations exist upon the exercise of the government's
'right? We can answer none of these questions here, and can
only
Order that the decree below be afirmed.
VoL. cvni-33

