OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

UNITED STATES v. AMBROSE.
ON CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION

OF

OPINION FROM THE SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Decided April 23d, 1883.

Indictment-

1.

2.
3.

4.

urisdiction-Perjury-Practice-Statutes.

5892 Rev. Stat. enacts that "every person who, having taken an oath before a competent . . . person in any case in which a law of the
United States authorizes an oath to be administered
.
.
that any
written . . . declaration, . .
. or certificate by him subscribed is
true, wilfully and contrary to such oath states or subscribes any material
matter which he does not believe to be true, is gui]ty of perjury." . .
On an indictment against a clerk of a circuit and district court for perjury
in swearing before a district judge to his emolument returns, and an
account for services rendered to the United States: Held,
That the words "declaration" and "certificate," as employed in this section
of the Revised Statutes, re used in the ordinary and popular sense to
signify any statement of material matters of fact sworn to and subscribed by the party charged.
That the returns and accounts set forth in the indictments were written
declarations within the meaning of ยง 5392 Rev. Stat.
That the written statement and oath of the party together constitute the
declaration or certificate of the statute, for the falsity of which a party is
chargeable with perjury.
That the authority of the district judge to administer the oath not having
been certified from below as a question of division, cannot be considered.

Indictment for perjury. The perjury charged in the first
count was the taking an oath by Ambrose before the district
judge for the Southern District of Ohio, that a certain written
declaration by him subscribed was true; and the declaration as
set out was a statement subscribed to an account against the
United States, that the services charged in the account had been
actually rendered. The indictment charged that they had not
been rendered, and concluded with the usual allegations. The
second count charged that the defendant had made a written
return of fees and emoluments of his office, and had appeared
before the district judge and taken and subscribed an oath,
which is set forth at length, that tho account is just and true.
The count charged that the return was false, set forth in what

UNITED STATES v. AMBROSE.
Argument for Ambrose.

particulars it was so, and concluded with the usual allegations,
averring that the paper so subscribed was a written declaration.
The third count related .to another return of fees and emoluments, and averred that the written oath subscribed to it was a
written declaration. The fourth count related to an account
for services, and the perjury was charged as consisting in a
false certificate subscribed to it and sworn to before the district

judge.
At the trial in the court below, before Mr. Justice Swayne
and Judge Baxter, the judges disagreed, and certified the
questions which appear in the opinion of the court.
.Y.

Solicitor-Generalfor the United States.

-r. E. XE. Johnson for Ambrose.-I. To constitute a declaration or certificate, under the statute, the paper must be
verified before a competent tribunal, officer or person. Our
first proposition is that the law of the United States did not
vest in the district judge, as such, before whom these instruments were sworn, the authority to administer an oath, and
therefore that these were unsworn papers, and could not constitute in law a declaration or certificate such as the statute contemplates. The indictment charges that the affidavit was
administered by the judge, not by the court. There is no
inherent authority in judges to administer oaths. No statute
of the United States confers this authority generally on any
judge of the United States. Section 25 contains the following
language: "The said courts shall have power to impose and
administer all necessary oaths." But the oath here was not
administered by the court. The indictment does not so charge.
It was administered by the judge out of court. It is unnecessary for us to argue that the judge is not the court.-II. Our
next proposition is that the instruments in question, in their
essential character, are neither declarations nor certificates.
The principle governing questions of construction of this
character is the ordinary and familiar proposition that penal
laws are to be construed strictly, to which this court gave its
unqualified assent in United Btates'v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheaton,
VOL. Cv=i-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

6, and United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214. The instruments
in question cannot be both declaration and certificates. In
form, they are neither declarations nor certificates. Neither
the word "declare" nor "certify" was used. Those described
in the second and third counts are affidavits to emolument returns. The others are the proofs, by affidavit, of accounts.
The counsel examined at length the various statutes of the
United States making provision for verified "declarations,"
and for verified "certificates," and contended that the offence
contemplated by ยง 5392 was the falsely subscribing the oath to
such certificates or declarations.
:MR. JusTIcE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on a certificate of division of
opinion between the judges holding the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of Ohio.
The defendant, who was clerk of the circuit and district
courts for that district, was indicted for perjury in swearing
before the district judge to his emolument returns and an
account for services rendered for the United States. The indictment consists of four counts framed under section 5392 of
the Revised Statutes, namely:
"Every person who, having taken an oath before a competent
tribunal, officer, or person, in any case in which a law of the
United States authorizes an oath to be administered, that he will
testify, declare, depose, or certify truly, or that any written
testimony, declaration, deposition, or certificate by him subscribed
is true, wilfully and contrary to such oath states or subscribes
any material matter which he does not believe to be true, is guilty
of perjury, and shall be punished by a fine of not more than two
thousand dollars, and by imprisonment at hard labor not more
than five years ; and shall moreover thereafter be incapable of
giving testimony in any court of the United States until such
time as the judgment against him is reversed."
In the first three counts of the indictment, after setting out
the emolument returns, and their verification by oath of the
defendant, the falsity of the accounts and the corrupt perjury

UNITED STATES v. AMBROSE.
Opinion of the Court.

of the defendant in swearing to them, each count closed with
this language:
"And so the grand jurors aforesaid, on their oaths and affirmations aforesaid, present that he, the said Thomas Ambrose,
having taken the said oath, before the said officer who was competent to administer the same, that said written declaration by him
so subscribed as aforesaid was true, wilfully and contrary to said
oath did then and there unlawfully subscribe said matters heretofore set forth, which were material and which he did not believe
to be true, contrary to the form of the statute in such case made
and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the United
States of America."

A demurrer was filed to the whole indictment, on the ground
relied on here, also that the paper to the truth of which defendant swears, as it is set forth in the indictment, is neither a
declaration, as it is charged to be in the first three counts, nor

a cer -tifate,
as charged in the last, within the meaning of those
words in section 5392.

And in regard to this question, as it

applies to each count, the judges of the court have sent us the
following certificate:
"Circuit Court of the United States, Southern District of Ohio.
The United States )
Vs.
t 1,472. Indictment.
Thomas Ambrose. )
"This cause coming on to be heard before the Honorable Noah
H. Swayne and Honorable John Baxter, judges of said court,
sitting therein, upon the demurrer of defendant to the indictment,
certain questions thereupon occurred on said hearing to be decided
by the court, to wit:
"First. Whether the instrument set forth in the first count
of indictment, and alleged therein to have been subscribed and
sworn to by the defendant, was a written declaration within the
meaning of section 5392 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States.
"Second. Whether the instrument set forth in the second count
of the indictment, and alleged therein to have been subscribed
and sworn'to by the defendant, was a written declaration within

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

the meaning of section 5392 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States.
"Third. Whether the instrument set forth in the third count
of indictment, and alleged therein to have been subscribed and
sworn to by the defendant, was a written declaration within the
meaning of section 5392 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States.
Whether the instrument set forth in the fourth
"Fourth.
count of the indictment, and alleged therein to have been subscribed and sworn to by the defendant, was a written certificate
within the meaning of section 5392 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States.
"Upon which said questions the judges aforesaid were divided
in opinion.
"It is thereupon ordered that the said points of disagreement,
stated as above, under the direction of said judges, be certified
under the seal of the court to the Supreme Court of the United
States at their next session."
We do not think the words decla'ation and certificate, as
used in the section of the Revised Statutes on which this indictment is founded, are used as terms of art, or in any technical sense, but are used in the ordinary and popular sense to
signify any statement of material matters of fact sworn to and
subscribed by the party charged.
Indeed, the word declaration, as a word of art in the law, is
generally used to signify the plea by which a plaintiff in a suit
at law sets out his cause of action, as the word complaint is in
the same sense the technical name of a bill in chancery.
The fact that in many acts of Congress cited by counsel that
body has used the word to signify a statement in writing,
whether sworn to or not, as the foundation in many cases of
official action, or as preliminary to the assertion of rights by
the party who makes the declaration, is far from proving that
the use of the word in the act concerning perjury is limited to
these cases. The inference is strong the other way, for the
word is used in the cases cited in regard to so many and such
diverse transactions, that it can, in view of them all, have no
other meaning than what is attached to it in ordinary use.

UNITED STATES v. AMBROSE.
Opinion of the Court.

And in all these instances it is equivalent to a statement of facts
material to the matter in hand.

The paper or statement of the emolument account, the falsity
of which is the foundation of the charge, is set out, and if in
the charging clause of the indictment it is described by a word
equally applicable to other instruments, no harm can come to
defendant, since he is precisely informed as to the identical
writing which is alleged to be false, and which he swore to be
true. Nor can he be misled in any way, because what he
says in that writing is, in the correct use of language, his
sworn declaration on that subject.
But the perjury in all such cases consists in the oath by
which the party indicted swears to the truth of some matter,
and this oath may be said to be the false statement of the
statute. Or, in another sense, it may be said that the written
statement and the oath of the party that it is true, all. constitute the declaration or certificate of the statute, for the falsity
of which he is chargeable with perjury and liable to punishment. The previously prepared writing, his oath to its truth,
or the whole taken together, is, in our opinion, a declaration of
the party within the meaning of the statute, and may be so
well described in the indictment.
We are quite satisfied that, as set forth in this indictment,
these are material matters under the statute, and if defendant
did not believe them to be true when he swore to and subscribed the statement that they were true, that he is guilty of
perjury, as declared in section 5392, and we think the word declaration correctly defines such statement. The same rule of construction is applicable to the word certificate used in the statute.
It is attempted in argument to raise the question whether
the judge of the district court had authority to administer the
oath in which the perjury was committed.
But it is clear that no such question is certified to us by the
judges of the circuit court, and we cannot consider it. Urnited
States v. Briggs, 5 How. 208 ; _Dennistoun, v. Stewart, 18 How.
565.
We answer all the questions submitted to us in the affiriative, and it will be so certified to the circuit court.

