OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

INEW JERSEY ZINC COMPANY v. TROTTER.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRIOT OF NEW JERSEY.
Decided M~ay 7th, 1883.

ff urisdiction--Pleading-Practice-Trespass.
Where, in an action of trespass in which a count of trespass quare clausum, is
joined to a count of trespass de bonis asportatis,the defendant sets up no
plea of title, and it does not in any way appear by the record that title is
involved, and the plaintiff recovers judgment for a sum less than $5,000,
the defendant cannot bring the cause here on a writ of error, even though
the judgment below may operate collaterally to estop the parties in another
suit.

Trespass quare clausum, to which was joined a count of
trespass de bois asportatis. General issue. Trial and judgment
for the plaintiff for $4,072.25, damages, costs, and charges.
Defendant brought the cause here on error. Defendant in
error moved to dismiss the writ of error, and joined with it a
motion to affirm, grounding the first motion on the insufficiency
of the amount of the judgment. The defendant resisted the
motion on the ground that the real issue tried between the
parties in the court below was the title to real estate of much
greater value than $5,000.
.ilt. Jokn Linn, for plaintiff in error.
216.. Ocrtla'ndtParker and il6r. Richzrd Wayne Parker,for
defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of trespass brought by Trotter to recover
damages of the New Jersey Zinc Company for entering on his
lands and digging up and carrying away a quantity of franklinite ore. There were three counts in the declaration: two
quare clausum fregit, and one de bonis a&portatis.. The plea
was not guilty. No other issue was raised by the pleadings.
Neither party set up title, so that the only matter in dispute
was the liability of the zinc company to pay for the ore which
M . CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

NEW JERSEY ZINC CO. v. TROTTER.
Opinion of the Court.

it was alleged had been wrongfully taken and carried away.
Trotter recovered a judgment for $3,320 damages and $752.25
costs of suit. From that judgment the zinc company brought
this writ of error, which Trotter now moves to dismiss because
the value of the matter in dispute does not exceed $5,000.
As we decided at the present term, in .ilton v. Dickinson,
ante, 165, our jurisdiction is determined by the value of the
matter in dispute in this court, and the matter in dispute here in
the present case is the judgment below for less than $5,000. It
may be that the question actually litigated below related to the
title of the parties to the land from which the ore in controversy was taken, and that the verdict will be conclusive on that
question as an estoppel in some other case; but, as was also said
at the present term, in Elgin v. -ars]all, 106 U. S. 578, for
the purpose of estimating the value on which our jurisdiction
depends, reference can only be had to the matter actually in
dispute in the particular cause in which the judgment to be re,
viewed was rendered, and we are not permitted to consider the
collateral effect of the judgment in another suit between the
same or other parties. It is the money value of what has been
actually adjudged in the cause that is to be taken into the
account, not the probative force of the judgment in some other
suit. Here the thing, and the only thing, adjudged is that the
zinc company was guilty of the particular trespass complained
of, and must pay Trotter $3,320 for the ore taken away. Had
the zinc company pleaded title to the land from which the ore
was taken, and issue had been joined on that plea, a different
question would have been presented. In that way, the land
might have been made the matter for adjudication, and thus
the matter in dispute on the record. But, as this case stands,
only the possession of Trotter and his right to the ore are involved. It may be that, in order to find possession in Trotter,
the jury were compelled to find that he had title to the land,
and that in this way the verdict and judgment may estop the
paxties in another suit, but that will be a collateral, not the
direct, effect of the judgment.
The motion to dismiss is granted.

