OCTOBER TERI, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

POST v. PEARSON.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF DAKOTA.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

Contract-Demurrer-Pleading.
An agreement in writing, between " W., superintendent of the Keets Mining

Company, parties of the first part, and P., party of the second part," by
which "the said parties of the first part" agree to deliver at P.'s mill ore
from the Keets mine (owned by the company) to be crushed and milled by
P.; and signed by "W., Supt. Keets Mining Co.," and by P.; is the contract of the company.
An order sustaining a defendant's demurrer, and giving the plaintiff leave to
amend, does not preclude the plaintiff from renewing, or the court from
entertaining, the same question of law at the subsequent trial on an
amended declaration.

This was an action brought in an inferior court of Dakota
Territory by John B. Pearson against Alvin W. Whitney and
Morton E. Post, copartners under the name of the Keets
Mining Company.
Annexed to the complaint was a copy of a contract under
seal, entitled "Memorandum of an agreement made and
entered into this 16th day of July, 1877, at Central City, Dakota, by and between A. W. Whitney, superintendent of the
Keets Mining Company, parties of the first part, and J. B.
Pearson, party of the second part;" and by which "the said
parties of the first part" agree to deliver at Pearson's mill
in Central City gold-bearing ore from the Keets mine from time
to time, in quantities sufficient to constantly supply the working capacity of the mill of about thirty tons daily; and also
agree to pay the sum of nine dollars for each ton crushed and
milled; and Pearson agrees to run his mill constantly upon
that ore for a term of ninety days from the date of the contract; and which is signed and sealed as follows:
"A. W. Whitney,
[Seal.]
"Sup. Keets Mining Co.
"John B. Pearson.
[Seal.]"

POST v. PEARSON.
Statement of Facts.

The complaint set forth the terms of the contract, and
alleged the plaintiff's performance and readiness to perform,
and the defendants' neglect and refusal to deliver ore as agreed,
or to pay fot crushing and milling what they did deliver.
The defendant Post demurred to the complaint, because he
was not shown to be a party to the contract sued on, and because sufficient facts were not stated to constitute a cause of
action against'him. The inferior court sustained the demurrer,
and gave the plaintiff leave to amend his complaint.
The plaintiff then filed an amended complaint, not alleging
the contract to have been in writing, but setting forth its
terms, and alleging the other facts substantially as in the
original complaint. The defendants answered, Post denying
all the allegations of the amended complaint, and Whitney
admittink the making of the contract, and denying the other
allegations.
At the trial, the written contract was admitted in evidence,
without objection. It appeared that it was made by the parties thereto; and that Whitney, in making it, acted in behalf
and for the benefit of the lBeets Mining Company, of which he
was the superintendent, and that he was understood by the
plaintiff so to act; and that Whitney, as such superintendent,
afterwards broke the contract, to the damage of the plaintiff.
The plaintiff, against the objection of Post, and for the purpose of showing that Post was one of the real parties in interest and a participant in the results of the contract, and that
Whitney acted merely as the agent of himself and Post as
principals, was permitted to introduce oral evidence that Post
was an owner of the Keets Mine, and a copartner with Whitney, under the name of the Keets Mining Company, in the
business of working the mine and having ore from it crushed,
and as such copartner received a large portion of the proceeds
of the contract, knowing whence they came.
The c6urt also declined to rule and instruct the jury, as Post
requested, that the order sustaining his demurrer to the original
complaint prevented a recovery against him in this action.
Post alleged exceptions to both rulings, and the jury returned
a verdict for the plaintiff, upon which judgment was. rendered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

On appeal, that judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the Territory. See 2 Dakota, 220. Post sued out this writ
of error.
.&r. ?. T. Merrick and r.3f F. Xo'is for the plaintiff in
error.-I. The liability of Post can be sustained only upon
proof that Whitney in the execution of the contract was authorized to bind him; and there was no such proof. Xr. Justice Story, in his Treatise on Agency, lays down the law upon
this subject, as follows: "In order to bind the principal and to
make it his contract, the instrument must prport on it face to
be the contract of the principal; and his name must be inserted
in it and signed to it, and not merely the name of the agent,
even though the latter be described as the agent in the instrument; or at least the terms of the instrument should clearly
show that the principal is intended to be positively bound
thereby, and that the agent acts plainly as his agent in executing it." Story on Agency, sec. 147; Story on Contracts, see.
222; Stackpole v. Arnold, 11 IN[ass. 27, 29; Bedford, &c.,v.
Covell, 8 Met. 442. Nor does it make any difference that
the person signing the contract signs as "agent," or with any
other descriptio personce; it is still his own contract, and not
that of a principal whom he may have intended to bind. This
is held universally by all the authorities. Stone v. Wood, 7
Cow. 453; Bank v. .- onteath, 1 Den. 402; Seaver v. Coburn,
10 Cush. 324; Jones v. _]ittledale, 6 A. & E. 486; .iuageev.
Atkinson, 2 M. & W. 440; Higgins v. Senior, 8 M. & W. 834;
Appleton v. Binks, 5 East, 148; Duvall v. Craig, 2 Wheat.
45; Tippets v. Walker, 4 Mass. 595; Forster v..Fuller, 6 Mass.
58; White v. Skinner, 13 Johns. 307; Elwellv. Shaw, 16 Mass.
42; Smith v. .forse, 6 Wall. 76, 83. It does not alter the fact
that Whitney and Post were partners. One partner cannot
bind his copartner by an instrument under seal, at least when
the partners are not present and no assent is shown.-II. The
second ground of complaint on behalf of the plaintiff in error
is, that the matter in controversy between him and the defendant in error had been adjudicated in the territorial district
court by the decision upon the demurrer interposed by Post to

POST -v. PEARSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Pearson's first complaint, that this demurrer went to the
merits of the case; and that the judgment upon it should have
been allowed as a bar to further proceedings upon the trial of
the issue raised by the amended complaint. It matters not
now whether the demurrer was good or bad, or whether the
judgment upon it was right or wrong. There was judgment
upon it; and the plaintiff in the suit acquiesced in that
judgment; and the judgment became final. And the question now is, whether that judgment is not a bar to any further proceedings intended to enforce the contract involved in
it. The claim of the plaintiff in error is that the court below
erred in refusing to rule out that contract and to give effect to
the judgment on the demurrer as a bar to the suit, supported
as the suit was merely by the contract in question. That a decision upon demurrer, if it involves the merits of the case, is
just as final as any other decision, is beyond question. It is
also true that "a decision given in the progress of a case,
whether right or wrong, is the law of the case in which it is
given and binding upon the parties." _Rector v. Danley, 14
Ark- 301; Cole v. Clarke-, 3 Wisc. 292; 1)eslond v. 1)arrington, 29 Ala. 92; Thomas v. -oub, 1 Md. 252; Lucas v. San
-Francisco,28 Cal. 591. There is no difference in principle
between a decision on demurrer in the same case as res judicata for all subsequent proceeding, and a similar decision
rendered in a different case. The demurrer, if sustained, disposes of the subject-matter; and the pleading demurred to
drops entirely 6ut of the caso, if the party thereafter amends.
.X'. . TF Smith for defendant in error.
Mn.

JUsTicE GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court. After

reciting the facts as above set forth, he said:
It is unnecessary to consider whether, if this were to be
treated as a contract under seal, it could be held to be upon its
face the contract of the Keets Mining Company, and not of
Whitney only, or whether the oral testimony would have been
admissible to charge Post; because, by the Civil Code of Dakota, "all distinctions between sealed and unsealed instruments

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Syllabus.

are abolished," and "any instrument within the scope of his
authority, by which an agent intends to bind his principal,
does bind him, if such intent is plainly inferable from the instrument itself." Civil Code of Dakota of 1877, §§ 925, 1373.
By the subject-matter of this contract, which is the delivery
and milling of ore from the Keets Mine; by the description of
Whitney, both in the body of the contract and in the signature,
as superintendent of the Keets Mining Company; and by the
use of the words "parties of the first part," which are applicable to a company and not to a single individual-the contract
made by the hand of Whitney clearly appears upon its face to
have been intended to bind, and therefore did bind, the company ; and, upon proof that Post was a partner in the company,
bound him. Whitney v. Wyman, 101 U. S. 392; Hitchwock v.
Buchanan, 105 IT. S. 416; Goodenough v. Thayer, 132 Mass.
152.
The order sustaining Post's demurrer to the original complaint gave the plaintiff leave to amend, and did not preclude
the plaintiff from renewing, nor the court from entertaining,
the same question of law upon a fuller development of the facts
at the trial on the amended complaint. Calder v. HUaynes, 7
Allen, 387.
Judgment a~fflrmd.

HAWKINS & Another, Assignees, & Others v. BLAKE &
Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

THE EASTERN DISTRICT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

OF NORTH CAROLINA.

Decided May ?th, 1883.

Assignees in Ban ruptcy-Equity-Mandate--Paries--Practice.
On appeal from the decree of the court below executing the mandate of the
court on the judgment entered in Blake v. Hawkins, 98 U. S. 315: Held,
1. That it was no error in the execution of the mandate to permit a new party
to become party and set up rights under the decree, when it appears by

the record that all parties consented.

