OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Satement of Facts.

NEW HAMPSHIRE v. LOUISIANA and Others.
NEW YORK v. LOUISIANA and Others.
ORIGINAL.

Decided March 5th, 183.
ConstitutionalLaw-InternationalLaw-urisdiction-SovereignState.
1. The history of article X1. of the amendment to the Constitution which
provides that the judicial power of the federal courts shall not extend to
suits against a State by a citizen of another State, or by citizens or subjects of a foreign State, and the causes which led to its adoption, reviewed.
2. Unless the State prosecuted consents, that amendment prohibits the court
from entertaining jurisdiction of a cause in which one State seeks relief
against another State on behalf of its citizens, in a matter in -which the
State prosecuting has no interest of its own. One State cannot create a
controversy with another State, within the meaning of that term as used
in the judicial clauses of the Constitution, by assuming the prosecution
of debts owing by the other State to its citizens.
8. The relation of one of the United States to its citizens is not that of an
indenendent sovereign State to its citizens. A sovereign State seeking
redress of another sovereign State on behalf of its citizens can resort
to war on refusal, which a State cannot do.
4. The qualifications of the duty of a sovereign State to assume the collection
of the debts of its citizens from another sovereign State considered and
stated.

The case on which the opinion is given is thus stated by the
court.
On the 18th of July, 1879, the general court of New Hampshire passed an act, of which the following is a copy:

"AN ACT to protect the rights of citizens of this state, holding
claims against other States.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and fouse of -Representativesin
General Court convened.
SECTION 1. Whenever any citizen of the State shall be the

owner of any claim against any of the United States of America,
arising upon a written obligation to pay money issued by such
State, which obligation shall be past due and unpaid, such
citizen holding such claim may assign the same to the State of

New Hampshire, and deposit the assignment thereof, duly exe-

N. H. v. LOUISIANA: N. Y. v. LOUISIANA.
Statement of Facts.
outed and acknowledged in the form and manner provided for
the execution and acknowledgment of deeds of real estate by
the laws of this State, together with all the evidence necessary to
substantiate such claim, with the attorney-general of the State.
"SEc. 2. Upon such deposit being made, it shall be the duty
of the attorney-general to examine such claim and the evidence
thereof, and if, in his opinion, there is a valid. claim which shall
be just and equitable to enforce, vested by such assignment in the
State of New Hampshire, he, the attorney-general, shall, upon
the assignor of such claim depositing with him such sum as he,
the said attorney-general, shall deem necessary to cover the expenses and disbursements incident to, or which may become incident to the collection of said claim, bring such suits, actions or
proceedings in the name of the State of New Hampshire, in the
Supreme Court of the United States, as he, the said attorneygeneral, shall deem necessary for the recovery of the money due
upon such claim ; and it shall be the duty of the said attorneygeneral to prosecute such action or actions to final judgment, and
to take such other steps as may be necessary after judgment for
the collection of said claim, and to carry such judgment into
effect, or, with the consent'of the assignor, to compromise, adjust, and settle such claim before or after judgment.
"SE.c. 3. Nothing in this act shall authorize the expenditure of
any money belonging to this State, but the expenses of said proceedings shall be paid by the assignor of such claim; and the assignor of such claim may associate with the attorney-general in
the prosecution thereof, in the name of the State of New Hampshire, such other counsel as the said assignor may deem necessary,
but the State shall not be liable for the fees of such counsel, or
any part thereof.
"1SEc. 4. The attorney-general shall keep all moneys collected
upon such claim, or by reason of any compromise of any such
claim, separate and apart from any other moneys of this State
which may be in his hands, and shall deposit the same to his own
credit, as special trustee under this act, in such bank or banks as
he shall select; and the said attorney-general shall pay to the
assignor of such claims all such sums of money as may be recovered by him in compromise or settlement of such claims, deducting therefrom all expenses incurred by said attorney not
before that time paid by the assignor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

"SEc

5.

This act shall take effect on its passage."

Under this act six of the consolidated bonds of the State of
Louisiana, particularly described in the cases of State ex rel.
Elliott v. Jumel and Elliott v. Tiltz, 107 U. S. 711, were assigned to the State of New Hampshire by one of its citizens.
This assignment was made for the purposes contemplated in
the act, and passed to the State no other or different title than
it would acquire in that way. After the assignment was perfected a bill in equity was filed in this court in the name of the
State of New Hampshire, as complainant, against the State of
Louisiana and the several officers of that State who compose the
board of liquidation provided for in the act authorizing the issue
of the bonds. The averments in the bill were substantially the
same as those in Elliott v. Jumel, save only that in this case
the ownership of the bonds specially involved was stated to be
in New iHampshire, while in that it was in Elliott and his associates. The prayer was in substance for a decree that the
bonds and the act and constitutional amendment of 1874 constitute a valid contract between Louisiana and the holders of
its bonds; that the defendants and each of them might be prohibited from diverting the proceeds of the taxes levied under
the act from the payment of the interest, and that the provisions of the debt ordinance of 18'79 might be adjudged void and
of no effect, because they impaired the obligation of the contract. The bill was signed in the name of New Hampshire by
the attorney-general of that State and also by the same counsel
who appeared for Elliott, Gwynn & Walker in their suit in
equity reported in 107 U. S.
On the 15th of fay, 1880, the legislature of New York
passed the following act:
"AN ACT to protect the rights of citizens of this State owning
and holding claims against other States.
"The people of the State of-ew York, representedin Senate and
Assembly, do enact asfollows:
"SECTION 1. Any citizen of this State, being the owner and
holder of any valid claim against any of the United States of

N. H. v. LOUISIANA: N. Y. v. LOUISIANA.
Statement of Facts.

America, arising upon a written obligation to pay money, made,
executed, and delivered by such State, which obligation shall be
past due and unpaid, may assign the same to the State of New
York, and deliver the assignment thereof to the attorney-general
of the State. Such assignment shall be in writing, and shall be
duly acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgment of deeds, and the certificate of such acknowledgment shall be duly indorsed upon such assignment before the
delivery thereof. Eviery such assignment shall contain a guaranty, on the part of the assignor, to be approved by the attorney-general, of the expenses of the collection of such claim,
and it shall be the duty of the attorney-general, on receiving
such assignment, to require on behalf such assignor, such security
for said guaranty as he shall deem adequate.
"SEc. 2. Upon the execution and delivery of such assignment,
in the manner provided for in section one of this act, and furnishing the security as in said section provided, and the delivery
of such claim to him, the attorney-general shall bring and prosecute such action or proceeding, in the name of the State of New
York, as shall be necessary for the recovery of the money due on
such claim, and the said attorney-general shall prosecute such
action or proceeding to final judgment, and shall take such proceedings after judgment as may be necessary to effectuate the
same.
"S c. 3. The attorney-general shall forthwith deliver to the
treasurer- of the State, for the use of such assignor, all moneys
collected upon such claim, first deducting therefrom all expenses
incurred by him in the collection thereof, and said assignor, or
his legal representatives, shall be paid said money by said treasurer upon producing the check or draft therefor of the attorneygeneral to his or their order and proof of his or their identity.
"S1Ec. 4. This act shall take effect immediately."
On the 20th of April, 1881, E. K. Goodnow and Benj.
Graham, being the holders and owners of thirty coupons cut
from ten of the consolidated bonds of Louisiana falling due
January 1st, 1880, July 1st, 1880, and January 1st, 1881, assigned them to the State of New York by an instrument in
writing, of which the following is a copy:

80s

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Argument for New Hampshire.
"Know all men by these presents, that we, the undersigned,
citizens of the State of New York, being the owners and holders
of valid claims against the State of Louisiana, arising upon written obligations to pay money, made, executed, and delivered by
the State of Louisiana, and now past due and unpaid, being
the coupons hereto annexed, in consideration of one dollar to
each of us paid by the State of New York, and for other good
and valuable considerations, hereby assign and transfer the said
claims and coupons to the State of New York.
"And we do hereby covenant with the said State that if an
attempt is made by it to collect the said claim from the State of
Louisiana we will pay all the expenses of the collection of the
same.
"In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands and
affixed our seals this twentieth day of April, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-one.
"E. K. GoonSow. [L. s.]
"BNJ.

GRAlHAM.

[L. s.]

"Sealed and delivered in presence of"FRAxK

kE. CARsoN."

Thereupon the State of New York, on the 25th of April,
filed in this court a bill in equity against the State of Louisiana
and the officers of the State composing the board of liquidation, with substantially the same averments and the same
prayer as in that of the State of New Hampshire. There was,
however, a statement in this bill not in the other, to the effect
that many of the consolidated bonds were issued to citizens of
the State of New York in exchange for old bonds of Louisiana
which they held, and that citizens of New York now hold and
own bonds of the same class to a large amount. Testimony
has been taken in support of this averment.
Xr. MTieeker IT Peckkamn for the State of New Hampshire.
-I.
The controversy is one arising on a contract.
This
species of controversy is within the jurisdiction of the court.II. The particular contracts are negotiable instruments of
which the State by assignment is legal owner, and in the suit
1s the real party in interest, whether the transfer was an

N. H. v. LOUISIANA: N. Y. v. LOUISIANA.
Argument for New York.

actual sale or merely colorable. Sheridan v. The ffayor, 68
N. Y. 30; ..Mercer County v. Hackett, 1 Wall. 83; Nat. Bank v.
Texas, 20 Wall. 72; Edwards on Bills, 130-132; Hays v.
Hathorn, 74 N. Y. 468.-111. The remedy is not sought
against the State, but against other defendants to restrain
them from diversion of funds. If the State cannot be made A
party, a court of equity will proceed without it. Board of
-Liquidatorsv. _1e Comh, 92 U. S. 531. New Hampshire seeks
only the relief which would be granted in a suit between individuals in a circuit court. Louisiana had power to issue these
.bonds; New Hampshire power to acquire them. United States
v. Bank, 15 Pet. 377; Union BranchRailroadCompany v. East
Tennessee, &c., Railroad Company, 14 Geo. 327. The creditor
State is entitled here to the same remedies against the debtor
State, which one individual would have against another in a circuit court.-IV. The fact that the ownership is acquired under
a statute does not oust the jurisdiction. No citizen of one country can sue in the courts of his own country any other State or
sovereignty, nor can he sue such other State in its own courts.
He must resort to his sovereign (i. e. New Hampshire), for redress; and under the federative system this court, in a controversy between States, takes the place of the last resort of
independent nations. Rhode Island v. .assachusetts, 12
1Peters, 657.-V. This jurisdiction extends even to political
questidns between States, when a judicial question arises for
their settlement. Rhode Island v. .Xassachusetts, ubi sup.;
Virginia v. TVest Virginia,11 Wall. 39. .2Wr. Peckham also discussed some provisions of the Constitution of Louisiana, and
the peremptory remedies sought for.
Xlr. Zeslie TF Russell, Attorney-General of New York, .r.
David Dudley Field, and .Yr. William,A. Duer, for the State
of New York.-The parties to the controversy, the States of
New York and Louisiana; and the officers of the latter
charged with the assessment and collection of taxes and payment of the debt; the subject of the controversy-a contract
by the State of Louisiana for the payment of money; and the
remedies sought for the enforcement of that contract are all
VOL. cVM-6

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Argument for New York.

within the jurisdiction of the court when properly brought before it.-I. A State of this Union can implead another State in
this court for a money demand. Van Stoplurst v. .Aaryland,
2 Dallas, 401; Oswald v. A57ew York, 2 Dallas, 401, 402 and
415 ; Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dallas, 419 ; Graysonv. Virginia,
3 Dallas, 320 ; Hollingsworth v. 'Fginia,3 Dallas, 378; .uger
v. South Carolina,3 Dallas, 339 ; Cutting v. South Carolina,2

Dallas, 415, note; -Yew York v. Connecticut, 4 Dallas, 1.-II.
The assignment of the demand for the purpose of suing does
not affect this right. The right and duty of every sovereign
State, on behalf of its citizens, to call upon any other sovereign
State for the fulilment of its obligations to those citizens, is an
established rule of international law. Our own country has
acted upon it so often, that with us it is no longer an open
question. Our diplomatic correspondence is full of references
to it. The argument cites also Stat. 4 lien. IV. ch. 7 ; Ordonance de la Marine, 1681; Grotius, B. 3 ch. 2, see. 5 subdivision 2; Vattel, book 2, ch. 18, page 347, with Ingersoll's notes,
1869; Rives' Life of Madison, vol. 1, 564; vol. 2, 41; Manning's Law of Nations, 150 (Amos edition); 2 Twiss' Law of
Nations, see. 11; 2 Phil. Int. Law, S; The Federalist. The
extent of the jurisdiction over controversies between the States,
and the manner of exercising it, have been so often considered
by the court, that a reference to the cases is hardly necessary.
Thus the suit of New Jersey against New York, begun in 1830,
appears three times in the reports, and that of Rhode Island
against Massachusetts, begun in 1832, appears five times. Nfew
Jersey v. .ew York, 3 Pet. 461; 5 Pet. 284, where Chief Justice Marshall goes over the subject, and 6 Pet. 323; -hode
Island v. .Zfassachusetts, 12 Pet. 657, where the jurisdiction
was considered at length by Mr. Justice Baldwin; 13 Pet. 23,
14 Pet. 210, 15 Pet. 233, and 4 How. 591. In Poole v. Fleeger,
11 Pet. 185, 209, Mr. Justice Story, delivering the opinion of
the court, used this language respecting the rights of the
States, under the law of nations, independent of the Constitution. . . . "It cannot be doubted, that it is a part of the
general right of sovereignty, belonging to independent nations,
to establish and fix the disputed boundaries between their re-

N. H. v. LOUISIANA: N. Y. v. LOUISIANA.
Argundent for New York.

spective territories ; and the boundaries so established and fixed
by compact between nations, become conclusive upon all the
subjects and citizens thereof, and bind their rights, and are to
be treated, to all intents and purposes, as the true and real
boundaries. This is a doctrine universally recognized in the
law and practice of nations. It is a right equally belonging to
the States of this Union, unless it has been surrendered under
the Constitution of the United States. So far from there being
any pretence of such a general surrender of the right, that it is
expressly recognized by the Constitution, and guarded in its
exercise by a single limitation or restriction requiring the consent of Congress. The Constitution declares, that 'No State
shall, without the consent of Congress, enter into any agreement or compact with another State;' thus plainly admitting
that, with such consent it might be done; and in the present
instance that consent has been expressly given. The compact,
then, has full validity, and all the terms and conditions of it
must be equally obligatory upon the citizens of both States."II. Even if a suit cannot be maintained against the State, its
officers can be required to apply the money in their hands to
the payment of interest. Kendall's Case, 12 Pet. 527; the Rfing
v. Zord Commissioners, 5 Nev. and Man. 589; 6 Nev. and
Man. 508.-IV. They may, also, in case the amount in their
hands is insufficient for that purpose, be required to assess and
collect a tax. Board Corrs. Zknox County v. Aspinwall and
others, 24 How.376 ; Supervisors v. United States, 4 Wallace,
435 ; Von, Hoffmann v. City of Quincy, 4 Wall. 535 ; City of
Galena v. Amy, 5 Wall. 705 ; WValkley v. City of mlscatine, 6
Wall. 481 ; M ayor v. Lord, 9 Wall. 409 ; UnitedStates v. Boutwell, 17 Wall. 604; Hfeine v. Levee Commissioners, 19 Wall. 655 ;
Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655 ; Board of Liquidation v. .fYoComb, 92 U. S.531; United States v. J-Temphis, 97
U. S.284; XJfempkis v. United States, 97 U. S.293; .Memphis
v. Brown, 97 U. S. 300; United States v. Fort Scott, 99 U. S.
152; County of Greene v. Daniel,102 U. S.187 ; Louisianav.
-New Orleans, 102 U. S.203 ; Louisiana v. United States, 103
U. S.289; Wov.
New Orleans, 103 U. S.358.

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Argument for Louisiana.

b'. J. C. Bgan, Attorney-General of Louisiana, and i&.
John A. Campbell for the State of Louisiana.-I. The judicial
power of the United States does not extend to suits against a
State.-II. An agreement by a State with an individual creates
no juridical obligation and no juridical relation between the
parties. Federalist, No. 81; 6 Webster's Works, 537; 1 Calhoun's Works, 260. The clause in the Constitution forbidding
a State to impair the obligation of a contract has no application
to such agreements. The term " contract" is narrower than
A contract is an agreement which
the term "agreement."
raises an obligation that can be enforced at law. Anson on
Contracts, sec. 9 ; Pollock on Contracts, 6 ; Austin on Jurisprudence, 1016, 17. This distinction was known to the framers of
the Constitution, and they used language applicable to perfect
obligations, which could be enforced at law, and which had no
application to those imperfect obligations which men owe to
themselves or their families, or their neighbors, but which cannot be enforced at law. This distinction is recognized in the
English courts, Crouch v. Credit FToncier, L. R. 8 Q. B. at page
384; and by French jurists, 42 Dalloz, Jurisp. Gen. Tresor
public, No. 1105 ; and by this court, Bank of United States v.
U ited States, 5 How. 382. He also cited 15 Laurent, No. 424,
p. 477; 1 Picot, Code Civ. p. 162-3; Larombi&re des Obligations, 360-364; ib. 58-59; 1 Bentham's Works, 148; Sturges
v. Crowninshield,I Wheat. 122, 208; Dartmoutk College v.
TFoodward, 4 Wheat. 518 ; Ogden v. Saunders,12 Wheat. 213,
332.-111. The United States enjoy immunity from suits as
matter of right. United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 436 ; Briseoe
v. Bank, 11 Pet. 257; United States v. lfeoLemore,4 How. 286;
The S ren, 7 Wall. 152; The Davis,10 Wall. 15; Caq'r v. United
States, 98 U. S. 433; United States v. Thompson, ib. 486. An
obligation to pay the debts contracted before the Constitution
was inserted in article VI. It was part of the supreme law.
But the creditors had no vinculumjuris. Theirs were pacta
gums non habent causam civilem. This is a case strictly analogous to the case stated in the bill.-IV. This is not a controversy between States. It is a vicarious controversy between
individuals. Controversies between States have little resem-

N. H. v. LOUISIANA: N. Y. v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

blance to those between individuals. They arise out of public
relations and intercourse, and involve political rights.-Y.
Courts of chancery discourage suits that are artificially produced, and do not arise on the relations of the parties. The
merchandise consisting merely of a faculty to come into court,
is not allowed.-VI. The rule of chancery is that the immediate
parties to a contract, or their successors, are necessary parties
to a suit for its enforcement. In this case the State is the only
party indebted, or charged to be indebted. The object of the
bill is to establish a debt against her, to be paid out of money
v. Barrow,17 How. 130 ; Coiron v.
belonging to her. &Sields
.Millauden,19 How. 113; Pomeroy on Contracts, 546, 484-5,
491.-VII. In the New York case an argument of a wider
scope is presented; that the State of New York, having been
a sovereign, and with powers to make war, issue letters of
marque and reprishl, and otherwise to act in a belligerent way,
resigned these powers into the control of the United States, to
be held in trust, and therefore this court must make decrees in
the cases in favor of the plaintiff, for judgment, making declaration of the default of Louisiana, and to subject her collecting
agencies and accounting officers to the demands of the bill, and
to compel the collection of taxes, to pay all the holders of coupons and bonds within the State of New York their interest and
principal, from year to year, till the debt becomes due in A. D.
1914. No precedent of such a suit has been cited, and it must
be admitted the present has the merit of originality and invention. It is opposed to the general practice of nations, and the
testimony of the leading bankers of Great Britain and of the
leading financiers of Europe is a dissent and contradiction to
any policy or right to use governmental power in such cases.
Mkr. Campbell reviewed the acts of government in such cases,
and closed with an argument upon the constitutions of Louisiana.
.Mr. Peckham and -Y. Field replied.
Mn. CHIEF JUsTIcE W TE delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the case he continued:

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

The first question we have to settle is whether, upon the facts
shown, these suits can be maintained in this court.
Art. III., sec. 2, of the Constitution provides that the judicial
power of the United States shall extend to "controversies between two or more States," and "between a State and citizens
of another State." By the same article and section it is also
provided that in cases "in which a State shall be a party, the
Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction."
By the
Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20, see. 13, 1 Stat. 80, the Supreme
Court was given "exclusive jurisdiction of all controversies of
a civil nature, where a State is a party, except between a State
and its citizens; and except also between a State and citizens
of other States, or aliens, in which latter case it shall have
original but not exclusive jurisdiction."
Such being the condition of the law, Alexander Chisholm, as
executor of Robert Farquar, commenced an action of assumpsit in this court against the State of Georgia, and process was
served on the governor and attorney-general. Chisholm v.
Georgia,2 Dall. 419. On the 11th of August, 1792, after the
process was thus served on Mr. Randolph, the attorneygeneral of the United States, as counsel for the plaintiff,
moved for a judgment by default on the fourth day of the
next term, unless the State should then, after notice, show cause
to the contrary. At the next term Mr. Ingersoll and Mr.
Dallas presented a written remonstrance and protestation on
behalf of the State against the exercise of jurisdiction, but in
consequence of positive instructions they declined to argue the
question. Mr. Randolph, thereupon, proceeded alone, and in
opening his argument said, "I did not want the remonstrance
of Georgia, to satisfy me that the motion which I have made
is unpopular. Before the remonstrance was read, I had learnt
from the acts of another State, whose will must always be dear
to me, that she too condemned it."
On the 19th of February, 1793, the judgment of the court
was announced, and the jurisdiction sustained, four of the
justices being in favor of granting the motion and one against
it. All the justices who heard the case filed opinions, some of
which were very elaborate, and it is evident the subject re-

N. H. v. LOUISIANA: N. Y. v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

ceived the most careful consideration.
his opinion uses this language, p. 465:

Mr. Justice Wilson in

"Another declared object (of the Constitution) is, ' to establish
justice.' This points, in a particular manner, to the judicial
authority. And when we view this object in conjunction with
the declaration, ' that no State shall pass a law impairing the
obligation of contracts,' we shall probably think, that this object
points, in a particular manner, to the jurisdiction of the court over
the several States. What good purpose could this constitutional
provision secure, if a State might pass a law impairing the obligation of its own contracts; and be amenable for such a violation of
right, to no controlling judiciary power?"
And Chief Justice Jay, p. 479:
"The extension of the judiciary power of the United States to
such controversies, appears to me to be wise, because it is honest,
and because it is useful. It is honest, because it provides for
doing justice without respect to persons, and by securing individual citizens, as. well as States, in their respective rights, performs the promise which every government makes to every free
citizen, of equal justice and protection. It is useful, because it is
honest, because it leaves not even the most obscure and friendless
citizen without means of obtaining justice from a neighboring
State; because it obviates occasions of quarrels between States on
account of the claims of their respective citizens; because it
recognizes and strongly rests on this great moral truth, that
justice is the same whether due from one man or a million, or from
a million to one man; because it teaches and greatly appreciates
the value of our free republican national government, which places
all our citizens on an equal footing, and enables each and every of
them to obtain justice without any danger of being overborne with
the might and number of their opponents; and because it brings
into action, and enforces the great and glorious principle, that the
people are the sovereign of this country, and consequently that
fellow citizens and joint sovereigns cannot be degraded by appearing with each other in their own courts to have their controversies
determined."o
Prior to this decision the public discussions had been confined

OCTOBER TERI,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

to the power of the court, under the Constitution, to entertain a
suit in favor of a citizen against a State; many of the leading
members of the convention arguing, with great force, against
it. As soon as the decision was announced, steps were taken
to obtain an amendment of the Constitution withdrawing jurisdiction. About the time the judgment was rendered, another
suit was begun against Massachusetts, and process served on
John Hancock, the governor. This led to the convening of the
general court of that commonwealth, which passed resolutions
instructing the senators and requesting the members of the
House of Representatives from the State "to adopt the most
speedy and effectual measures in their power to obtain such
amendments in the Constitution of the United States as will
remove any clause or articles of the said Constitution, which
can be construed to imply or justify a decision that a State is
compellable to answer in any suit by an individual or individuals in any courts of the United States." Other States also
took active measures in the same direction, and, soon after the
next Congress came together, the eleventh amendment to the
Constitution was proposed, and afterwards ratified by the
requisite number of States, so as to go into effect on the 8th of
January, 1798. That amendment is as follows:
"The judicial power of the United States shall not be construed
to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted
against one of the United States by citizens of another State, or
by citizens and subjects of any foreign State."
Under the operation of this amendment the actual owners of
the bonds and coupons held by New Hampshire and New
York are precluded from prosecuting these suits in their own
names. The real question, therefore, is whether they can sue
in the name of their respective States, after getting the consent
of the State, or, to put it in another way, whether a State can
allow the use of its name in such a suit for the benefit of one
of its citizens.
The language-of the amendment is, in effect, that the judicial
power of the United States shall not extend to any suit commenced or prosecuted by citizens of one State against another

N. H. v. LOUISIANA: N. Y. v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

State. No one can look at the pleadings and testimony in
these cases without being satisfied, beyond all doubt, that they
were in legal effect commenced, and are now prosecuted, solely
by the owners of the bonds and coupons. In New Hampshire,
before the attorney-general is authorized to begin a suit, the
owner of the bond must deposit with him a sum of money
sufficient to pay all costs and expenses. No compromise can
be effected except with the consent of the owner of the claim.
No money of the State can be expended in the proceeding, but
all expenses muist be borne by the owner, who may associate
with the attorney-general such counsel as he chooses, the State
being in no way responsible for fees. All moneys collected
are to be kept by the attorney-general, as special trustee,
separate and apart from the other moneys of the State, and paid
over by him to the owner of the claim, after deducting all expenses incurred not before that time paid by the owner. The
bill, although signed by the attorney-general, is also signed, and
was evidently drawn, by the same counsel who prosecuted the
suits for the bondholders in Louisiana, and it is manifested in
many ways that both the State and the attorney-general are
only nominal actors in the proceeding. The bond owner, whoever he may be, was the promoter and is the manager of the
suit. He pays the expenses, is the only one authorized to
conclude a compromise, and if any money is ever collected,
it must be paid to .him without even passing through the form
of getting into the treasury of the State.
In New York no special provision is made for compromise
or the employment of additional counsel, but the bondholder is
required to secure and pay all expenses and gets all the money
that is'
recovered. This State, as well as New Hampshire, is
nothing more nor less than a mere collecting agent of the
owners of the bonds and coupons, and while the suits are in
the names of the States, they are under the actual control of
individual citizens, and are prosecuted and carried on altogether
by and for them.
It is contended, however, that, notwithstanding the prohibition of the amendment, the States may prosecute the suits, because, as the "sovereign and trustee of its citizens," a State is

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

"clothed with the right and faculty of making an imperative
demand upon another independent State for the payment of
debts which it owes to citizens of the former." There is no
doubt but one nation may, if it sees fit, demand of another
nation the payment of a debt owing by the latter to a citizen
of the former. Such power is well recognized as an incident
of national sovereignty, but it involves also the national powers
of levying war and making treaties. As was said in the United
States v. Diekelman, 92 U. S.520, if a sovereign assumes the
responsibility of presenting the claim of one of his subjects
against another sovereign, the prosecution will be "as one
nation proceeds against another, not by suit in the courts, as of
right, but by diplomatic negotiation, or, if need be, by war."
All the rights of the States as independent nations were surrendered to the United States. The States are not nations,
either as between themselves or towards foreign nations. They
are sovereign within their spheres, but their sovereignty stops
short of nationality. Their political status at home and abroad
is that of States in the United States. They can neither make
war nor peace without the consent of the national government.
Neither can they, except with like consent, "enter into any
agreement or compact with another State." Art. 1, sec. 10, cl. 3.
But it is said that, even if a State, as sovereign trustee for its
citizens, did surrender to the national government its power of
prosecuting the claims of its citizens against another State by
force, it got in lieu the constitutional right of suit in the
national courts. There is no principle of international law
which makes it the duty of one nation to assume the collection
of the claims of its citizens against another nation, if the
citizens themselves have ample means of redress without the
intervention of their government. Indeed, Sir Robert Phillimore says, in his Commentaries on International law, vol. II.,
2d ed., page 12:
"As a general rule, the proposition of Martens seems to be correct, that the foreigner can only claim to be put on the same footing as the native creditor of the State."

Whether this be in all respects true or not, it is clear that no
nation ought to interfere, except under very extraordinary cir-

N. H. v. LOUISIANA: N. Y. v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

cumstances, if the citizens can themselves employ the identical
and only remedy open to the government if it takes on itself
the burden of the prosecution. Under the Constitution, as it
was originally construed, a citizen of one State could sue another State in the courts of the United States for himself, and
obtain the same relief his State could get for him if it should
sue. Certainly, when he can sue for himself, there is no necessity for power in his State to sue in his behalf, and we cannot
believe it was the intention of the framers of the Constitution
to allow both remedies in such a case. Therefore, the special
remedy, granted to the citizen himself, must be deemed to have
been the only remedy the citizen of one State could have
under the Constitution against another State for the redress of
his grievances, except such as the delinquent State saw fit itself
to grant. In other words, the giving- of %thedirect remedy to
the citizen himself was equivalent to taking away any indirect
remedy he might otherwise have claimed, through the intervention of his State, upon any principle of the law of nations.
It follows that when the amendment took away the special
remedy there was no other left. Nothing was added to the
Constitution by what was thus done. No power taken away
by the grant of the special remedy was restored by the amendment. The effect of the amendment was simply to revoke the
new right that had been given, and leave the limitations to
stand as they were. In the argument of the opinions filed by
the several justices in the Chisholm case, there is not even an
intimation that if the citizen could not sue, his State could sue
for him. The evident purpose of the amendment, so promptly
proposed and finally adopted, was to prohibit all suits against
a State by or for citizens of other States, or aliens, without the
consent of the State to be sued, and, in our opinion, one State
cannot create a controversy with another State, within the
meaning of that term as used in the judicial clauses of the Constitution, by assuming the prosecution of debts owing by the
other State to its citizens. Such being the case we are satisfied
that we are prohibited, both by the letter and the spirit of the
Constitution, from entertaining these suits, and
The bi1 in eack case is dismissed.

