OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

mon, to set aside a conveyance made by Kessler, one of the
bankrupts, to Geiler, and the only question presented by the
writ of error is, whether upon the testimony embodied in the
record and considered by the Supreme Court of Tennessee in
the determination of the cause, it should have been found that
the conveyance was in fraud of the bankrupt law. The question is entirely one of fact. There can be no dispute about the
law. It is sufficient to say that, after a careful examination
of the testimony, we are satisfied with the conclusion finally
reached below. It would serve no useful purpose to set forth
in an opinion the details of the evidence, or to enter into any
discussion as to its effect.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee is affirmed.

GOLDENBERG and Another v. MURPIHY, Collector.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORX.
Decided March 26th, I8M3.

Customs Duties--Limilations.
When a suit is brought in a State court, the laws of that State will control in
interpreting the provision of a federal statute of limitations as to what is
the commencement of suit.

Action to recover back duties alleged to have been illegally
exacted. The whole question was whether the suit was begun
ii time, it being conceded that the plaintiffs had a good cause

of action if not barred by the statute.
opinion of the court.

The facts appear in the

fr. S. G. Clarke for the plaintiffs.
-3r.Assistant Attorney-General M aury for the defendant.

LR. CHIEF JusTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit to recover back duties on imports paid under
protest, commenced in the Superior Court of the City of New

GOLDENBERG v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

York, before the enactment of the Revised Statutes, and the
only question presented by the writ of error is, whether the
suit was "brought within ninety days after the decision of the
Secretary," as required by the act of June 30th, 1864, c. 171,
sec. 14, 13 Stat. 215, then in force. The facts are, that the decision was made by the Secretary on the 28th of May, 1872,
and it was agreed at the trial that the ninety days expired on
the 26th of August. A summons in the case was made out in
due form of law, bearing date August 21st, 1872, and efforts
were made to serve it on the collector without the intervention
of the sheriff, but failing in this, the summons was, on the 26th
of August, delivered to and received by the sheriff of the
county of New York, where the collector resided, with the intent that it should be actually served. Service was in fact
made on the 27th.
The New York Code of Civil Procedure, see. 99, is as follows:
"An action is commenced as to each defendant when the summons is served on him, or on a co-defendant, who is a joint contractor, or. otherwise united in interest with him.
"An attempt to commence an action is deemed equivalent to
the commencement thereof, within the meaning of this title,
when the summons is delivered, with intent that it shall be actually served, to the sheriff or other officer of the county in which
the defendants, or one of them, usually or last resided."
A suit is brought when in law it is commenced, and we see
no significance in the fact that in the legislation of Congress
on the subject of limitations the word "commenced" is sometimes used, and at other times the word "brought." In this
connection the two words evidently mean the same thing, and
are used interchangeably. As this suit was begun in a State
court of New York, the laws of that State must determine
when it was brought, and as that is prescribed by statute, we
have no need of inquiry as to the practice in other States, or
the rules of the common law.
As it was conceded that under the decision of this court in
Arthur v. Lahey, 96 U. S. 112, the importers were entitled to

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

a verdict if the suit was brought in time, it follows that the instruction of the court to find for collector was erroneous.

The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded for a new
trial.

GAGE v. PUMPELLY and Others.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Decided March 26th, 1883.

Appeal-Turisdiction.
In a suit involving title to real estate the court will not dismiss an appeal for
want of jurisdiction solely because, where there are conflicting affidavits
respecting the value of the property, it may possibly reach the conclusion
that the estimates acted on below were too high.
Motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
This suit was brought to set aside a tax sale. The plaintiff
below paid the amount of the taxes, $1,120.79, and costs of suit
into court. The court on hearing set aside the tax rule. The
The plaintiff objected to the
defendants below appealed.
allowance of the appeal, but the court allowed it, and fied the
following opinion:
BLODGETT, J.-The defendant has prayed an appeal in this case,
which complainant resists on the ground that the matter in dispute
does not exceed $5,000, and affidavits have been filed on behalf of
each party touching the value of the lands in controversy. I have
considered these proofs, and am much inclined to hold that the
fair cash value of this property does not exceed $5,000, although
it is true that some of the affidavits on the part of the defendant
put the value much higher than that, but the affidavits on the part
of the complainant refer to actual sales and transactions, which
furnish a much more reliable basis of value than these opinions
or speculative conclusions. But I dislike by any ruling of my
own as to value to deny an appeal to any party who seeks to
review my findings upon the main questions in a case. I shall,
therefore, allow the appeal, with leave to the appellee to raise the

