OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

a verdict if the suit was brought in time, it follows that the instruction of the court to find for collector was erroneous.

The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded for a new
trial.

GAGE v. PUMPELLY and Others.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Decided March 26th, 1883.

Appeal-Turisdiction.
In a suit involving title to real estate the court will not dismiss an appeal for
want of jurisdiction solely because, where there are conflicting affidavits
respecting the value of the property, it may possibly reach the conclusion
that the estimates acted on below were too high.
Motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
This suit was brought to set aside a tax sale. The plaintiff
below paid the amount of the taxes, $1,120.79, and costs of suit
into court. The court on hearing set aside the tax rule. The
The plaintiff objected to the
defendants below appealed.
allowance of the appeal, but the court allowed it, and fied the
following opinion:
BLODGETT, J.-The defendant has prayed an appeal in this case,
which complainant resists on the ground that the matter in dispute
does not exceed $5,000, and affidavits have been filed on behalf of
each party touching the value of the lands in controversy. I have
considered these proofs, and am much inclined to hold that the
fair cash value of this property does not exceed $5,000, although
it is true that some of the affidavits on the part of the defendant
put the value much higher than that, but the affidavits on the part
of the complainant refer to actual sales and transactions, which
furnish a much more reliable basis of value than these opinions
or speculative conclusions. But I dislike by any ruling of my
own as to value to deny an appeal to any party who seeks to
review my findings upon the main questions in a case. I shall,
therefore, allow the appeal, with leave to the appellee to raise the

HILTON v. DICKINSON.
Syllabus.

question in the supreme court, as to whether the amount in controversy is sufficient to enable the defendant to prosecute an appeal. That is, I do not intend by this order, allowing an appeal,
to cut off the right, if I could do so, of complainant to move in
the supreme court to dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction.
The appellant moved to dismiss the appeal on the grounds:
1. That the affidavits showed that the property was worth less
than $5,000; 2. That the amount at issue was only the taxes
in arrear.
X.r. Edward G. J2ason for appellees.
.Xr. Albert G. Riddle and .Ab. August -. Gage for appellant.
MR.CHIEF JusricE W.AiTE delivered the opinion of the court.
MN[any of the affidavits sent up with the transcript state distinctly that the value of the property, which is the matter in
dispute, exceeds $5,000. When an appeal has been allowed,
after a contest as to the value of the matter in dispute, and
there is evidence in the record which sustains our jurisdiction,
the appeal will not be dismissed simply because upon examination of all the affidavits we may be of the opinion that
possibly the estimates acted upon below were too high. There
is no such decided preponderance of the evidence in this case
against jurisdiction as to make it our duty to dismiss the appeal
which has been allowed.
.M1tion denied.

IILTONv. DICKINSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUIhBIA.
Decided March 26th, 1883.

Appeal--Turisdiction.
1. Cross-appeals must ce prosecuted like other appeals. When a party making
a cross-appeal fails, for a period long after the time allowed by law, to
perfect his cross-appeal, the court, of its own motion, will dismiss it for
want of prosecution.

