OCTOBER TERAI, 1882.
Syllabus.

The proposition asserted in the instruction asked for by the
claimants, and which the court refused to give, is understood to
be, that, as the claimants sold at their shop, as dealers in
tobacco who had paid the special tax, articles not of their own
manufacture, in addition to cigars which they made in the
same room, the sale of the last named cigars was not prohibited
by law. If this proposition has any other meaning than the
propositions before considered, it must be held to be entirely
without support in law or in reason.
Although the record shows that the claimants were, as dealers in tobacco, engaged at their shop in the business of selling
cigars which they purchased, as well as cigars which they
made, there is nothing in the case which raises any other questions than those above considered.
The judgment of Mhe circuit court isaftimed.

CITY OF SAVANNAH v. KELLY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

Decided April 2d, 1883.
ifunicival Corporations-Statutes,Construction of-Repeal of.
1. A statute which authorized a municipal corporation "to obtain money on loan
on the faith and credit of said city for the purpose of contributing to works
of internal improvement," is not repealed by implication by a subsequent statute which, reciting that doubts had arisen respecting bonds
theretofore issued, enacted that "all bonds heretofore issued by the constituted authorities of the city are valid, and from and after the passage
of this act, the mayor and aldermen of the city, upon a recommendation of a public meeting of the citizens called for that -purpose, shall have
power and authority to cause bonds to be issued and disposed of in such
manner as they may direct, for purposes of internal improvement."
2.
statute authorizing a municipal corporation to obtain money on loan on
the faith and credit of the city, for the purpose of contributing to works
of internal improvement, authorizes the municipality to guarantee the
payment of the bonds of a railway company.

CITY OF SAVANNAH v. KELLY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Action against the municipality of Savannah to recover on a
guaranty of the payment of the principal and interest of the
bonds of the Savannah, Albany & Gulf Railroad Company.
In an act relating to the city of Savannah, passed on the 27th
of December, 1838, the legislature of Georgia enacted that the
mayor and aldermen of said city be and they are hereby authorized and empowered to obtain money on loan on the faith
and credit of said city, for the purpose of contributing to works
of internal improvement.
Under this authority bonds were issued, whose validity was
questioned after issue, and thereupon the legislature on the 4th
March, 1856, enacted as follows :
"And whereas, doubts have been entertained whether certain
bonds issued and disposed of by the city of Savannah for internal
improvements, were legal and valid, therefore, be it further enacted, that all bonds heretofore issued by the constituted authorities
of the city of Savannah, are hereby declared legal and valid, and
from and after the passage of this act, the mayor and aldermen
of the city of Savannah, and the hamlets thereof, upon the recommendation of a public meeting of the citizens of Savannah,
called for the purpose, shall have power and authority to cause
bonds to be issued and disposed of in such manner as they may
direct, for purposes of internal improvement, which bonds so
issued shall be legal and valid."
The contentions in this suit were upon the proper construction of these statutes: 1st, whether the act of 1838 empowered
the municipality to guarantee the bonds of a railroad corporation; and 2d, whether, conceding that it did confer that
power, it was repealed. by the act of 1856. The transactions
out of which the issues in controversy arose took place in 1858,
and are set forth in the opinion of the court.
.2J. Walter . (hisholm and Xr. A. 1?. Zawtonr for the
plaintiff in error.-I. As to the construction of the act of 1838:
The authority to issue railroad aid bonds is not one of the ordinary powers of a municipality. Express authority for it is required, and this authority must be exercised in conformity with

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

prescribed forms. Jones on Railroad Securities, § 296; Rogers v.
Burlington, 3 Wall. 654; Head v. Providence Insurance Company, 2 Cranch, 127; Scipio v. Wright, 101 U. S. 665, iBurroughs' Public Sec. pp. 206-211. In Iead v. _Providence
Insurance Company, Marshall, C. J., delivering the opinion of
the court, said: "The act of incorporation is to them an
enabling act; it gives them all the power they possess; it
enables them to contract, and when it presents to them a
mode of contracting they must observe that mode or the instrument no more creates a contract than if the body had never
been incorporated." The supposed obligation of the city is a
technical guaranty. It is a promise to pay the debt to another.
It is a contract to insure the solvency of the Albany & Gulf
Railroad to the amount of $300,000, bearing semi-annual interest at seven per cent. per annum for twenty years. 2 Daniel
on Negotiable Instruments, §§ 1752, 1753. A greater power
may include the lesser when they are of the same nature or
kind. But "the note and the guaranty are not one and the
same thing. The note is the debt of the maker, the guaranty
is the engagement of the defendant that the maker shall pay
the note when it becomes due. A joint action will not lie
against them both. They are not the same, but different and
distinct contracts." Brewster v. Silence, 8 N. Y. 207; Hfall v.
Farmer,5 Denio, 484; Oxford Bank v. Haynes, 8 Pick. 427;
Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666. "Although a municipal corporation may have power directly to accomplish a certain
object, and itself expend its revenues or money therefor, yet
this does not give or include the power to lend its credit to
another who may be empowered to effect the same object.
Expending money by a city council as agents or administrators
of their constituents is a very different thing from binding their
constituents by a contract or suretyship--'a contract which
carries with it a lesion by its very nature."' 1 Dillon Municipal
Corporations, § 471 (393); Blake et al. v. The -3fayorof .Jfacon,
36 Ga. 172. See also .Marshv. Fulton County, 10 Wall. 676;
Thomas v. Railroad Company, 101 U. S.71; Police Jury v.
Britton, 15 Wall. 566; Town qf South Ottawa v. Perkins,94
U. S.260; Bast Oakland v. Skinner, 94 U. S.255; Colomo V.

CITY OF SAVAN-NAI

v. KELLY.

.Opinion of the Court.

.Eaves, 92 U. S. 481; .Zkfarcy v. Oswego, 92 U. S. 637; Humboldt
v. Long, 92 U. S. 642.-I1. As to the repeal of the act of 1838,
by the act of 1856, the counsel contended that it was the manifest intent of the legislature to substitute the new provision
for the old one. "If a subsequent statute be not repugnant in
all of its provisions to a prior one, yet, if the later statute clearly
intended to prescribe the only rules which should govern, it repeals the prior one." Davies et al. v.-Fairborn,3 How. pp. 636,
645.
X2T. George A. fiercer for the defendant in error.
Mit. JusTicE. _ATTHEws delivered the opinion of the court.
The Savannah, Albany & Gulf Railroad Company was a corporation of Georgia, authorized to construct and operate a railroad, the principal and beginning point of which was the city
of Savannah. That city was, in fact, owner of more than onehalf of its capital stock, which it had subscribed in pursuance
of law to aid in its construction. For purposes of construction,
that is, partly to pay debts incurred for construction then made,
and partly to pay for future improvements, the railroad company in 1859 made an issue of its bonds in the usual form, payable to bearer, twenty years after date, amounting in the
aggregate to $300,000, bearing interest at the rate of sevenper
cent. per annum. On each of .this series of bonds there was
indorsed the following:
"State of Georgia. For value received, the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Savannah and hamlets thereof, hereby, as
authorized by a public meeting of the citizens thereof, held on the
14th day of May, 1859, guarantee the payment of the within
bond, principal and interest, as the same may become due, according to the tenor thereof. Witness the hand of the mayor, with
the seal of said corporation affixed. [Seal of city.] Thomas M.
Turner, mayor. Attest : Edward G. Wilson, clerk of council."
The bonds were issued Nith this guaranty indorsed, and were
purchased in open market for value. The present action was
brought by the defendant in error to enforce the liability of the
city of Savannah upon this guaranty. And it is not denied

OCTOBER TERMI, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

that the city is liable upon it, if at the time it- was made there
was authority of law for the city to bind itself in that form for
such purposes. The judgment of the circuit court affirms this
liability, and is sought to be reversed, upon this writ of error,
for that cause.
The fifth section of an act which took effect December 27th,
1838, entitled "An Act to extend the limits of the city of
Savannah, and to authorize the corporate authorities of said
city to borrow money for works of internal improvement,"
authorizes the mayor and aldermen "to obtain money on loan,
on the faith and credit of said city, for the purposes of contributing to works of internal improvements." This provision
is relied on as conferring authority for the guaranty in question.
It is claimed, however, on behalf of the plaintiff in error, that
this provision of the act of 1838 was not in force at the date of
the guaranty,.having been repealed by an act of March 4th,
1856. Wilson's Dig. 526. This act expressly repeals only
such acts as conflict with it, and the repeal, if effected, must be,
therefore, by implication. The 8th section of the act of 1856
is supposed to have wrought this result. It is as follows:
"And whereas, doubts have been entertained whether certain
bonds issued and disposed of by the city of Savannah for internal
improvements were legal and valid, therefore, be it further
enacted, that all bonds heretofore issued by the constituted
authorities of the city of Savannah are hereby declared legal and
valid, and from and after the passage of this act the mayor and
aldermen of the city of Savannah, and the hamlets thereof, upon
the recommendation of a public meeting of the citizens of Savannah, called for that purpose, shall have power and authority to
cause bonds to be issued and disposed of in such manner as they

may direct, for purposes of internal improvement, which bonds,
so issued, shall be legal and valid."
Whether the latter repeals the former law depends on
whether the two are inconsistent; and in the present instance,
that depends on whether it is manifest from the words of the
enactments, that both cover the same ground, and that the

CITY OF SAVANNIAH v. KELLY.
Opinion of the Court.

latter was intended to be a substitute for the former. The act
of 1856 relates entirely to the issue of bonds by the city of
Savannah; the act of 1838 does not specify bonds at all as a
mode of obtaining money on loan, on the faith and credit of
the city. If it be assumed that the only mode by which that
could be done under the act of 1838 was by issuing bonds, it
might then be argued that the two acts covered the same subject, and the latter was designed to supersede the former. But
to assume that construction of the act of 1838 to be correct, is
to beg the question at issue, which is, whether that act requires
the issue of bonds as the exclusive mode of obtaining money on
loan on the faith and credit of the city. For if it does not,
there is no inconsistency between the two statutes, and the act
of 1838 is not repealed. Whether it be repealed, then, depends
on what it means; and if it authorizes a guaranty such as that
sued on, then it is not repealed; unless it might be supposed
that the term "bonds," used in the act of 1856, was generic
and not technical, and was desigued to embrace every form of
obligation, whereby the city might extend the aid of its credit
to purposes of internal improvement. In that event, the repeal
of the act of 1838 might be effected, by conceding that the act
of 1856 was large enough to embrace every case, even that of a
guaranty, which might have been included in the act of 1838.
But conceding, as we are disposed to do, for the purposes of
this case, that the term "bond," as used in the act of 1856, is
to be taken in a strict sense, as confined to direct municipal
obligations in the usual form of securities known as such, then
we are clear that the act of 1838 is not repealed by any necessary implication; because it is not confined to the case of bonds
of that description; and the question remains whether it fairly
includes that of an obligation such as the guaranty sued on.
The argument for the plaintiff in error moves in a circle. It is,
that the act of 1838 does not confer authority to make the
guaranty, because it is repealed; and that it is repealed, because it does not confer authority to make a guaranty.
The language of the act of 1838 is broad and unqualified.. It
confers upon the mayor and aldermen plenary power "to obtain money on loan, on the faith and credit of said city for the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

purposes of contributing to works of internal improvement."
The money paid for the guaranteed bonds was obtained on
loan and upon the faith and credit of the city, and it was for
the purpose of contributing to works of internal improvement.
The fact that it was not advanced directly to the city, but,
upon its assurance of repayment, to the railroad company, is
not a departure even from the letter of the law, much less its
meaning; nor does the fact that the money was advanced
partly on the credit of the railroad company diminish the presumed reliance of the purchaser upon that of the city, with
which it was joined. It is difficult to conceive of language
more comprehensive than that employed, to embrace every
form of security in which the faith and credit of the city might
be embodied; and that in such cases it is not important to the
character of the transaction that the money is obtained in the
first instance by the railroad company, upon the credit of the
city, was directly ruled in Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 654,
and affirmed in Town of Venice v. )J'urdock, 92 U. S. 494. If
the city of Savannah had, by virtue of an arrangement with
the railroad company, received from the latter its bonds, and
had itself, having indorsed the guaranty in suit, delivered
them after sales to purchasers, and, receiving the money, had
paid it over to the railroad company as a contribution to purposes of internal improvement, the transaction could not have
been made the subject of a cavil, as unauthorized by the act of
1838; and yet this is the precise legal equivalent of the transaction as made. We have no hesitation in saying that it is
equally embraced within the meaning of that statute, and that
the act in question was in force at the date of the guaranty,
and accordingly governs it. The substance of the transaction
was, that, in consideration of the money advanced to the railroad company as a loan on the faith and credit of the city, the
latter required the railroad company to indemnify it against
loss on that account, a precaution which no implication in the
statute forbids, and that result was accomplished by the form
of the obligation, by which the railroad company became the
principal debtor, and the city of Savannah guarantor merely of
its bonds.

CITY OF SAVANNAH v. MARTIN.
Opinion of the Court.

It does not detract from the force of this conclusion that the
guaranty recites that it was authorized by a public meeting of
the citizens thereof, as if it were the case of bonds issued under
the act of 1856, which required the recommendation of such a
meeting. But if the fact is immaterial, the recital is hot injurious. And the oLicial record of the transaction shows that
such a meeting was held for the purpose of quieting doubts,
and not to raise them. The authorities of the city at that time
were only anxious to omit nothing which the most critical
might regard as important in securing for its obligations all the
weight and value properly belonging to an unquestionable
pledge of its faith and credit; and certainly now, after the
lapse of twenty years, in which no such question has been
raised, it would, in the language of Mr. Justice Grier, in
.fercer County v. Hacket, 1 Wall. 83, "be contrary to good
faith and common justice to permit them to allege a newly discovered construction of an equivocal power." -FanTosup v.
.fadson, City, 1 Wall. 291; -feyer v. City of ifusatine, 1
Wall. 384; James v. .ilwaukee, 16 Wall. 159.
In our opinion the act of 1838 authorized the guaranty made
by the city of Savannah upon the bonds of the railroad company, and it constitutes a valid and subsisting liability. This
disposes of the only question in the case deserving serious
consideration; and the judgment of the circuit court is therefore
Affirmed.

CITY OF SAVANNAH v. MARTIN.
IN

ERROR

TO

THE

CIRCUIT

THE SOUTHERN

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

Decided April 2d, 1883.

MR. JUsTIcE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is identical in its circumstances with that of the
mayor and aldermen of the city of Savannah, plaintiffs in
error, against Eugene Kelly.
Judgment a7frmed.

