CRANE IRON COMPANY v. HOAGLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

MmI. C=aF JusTicE WAr E delivered the opinion of the court.
This motion is denied. It does not appear from the motion
papers that the decree appealed from is collectible under
ordinary execution. The fair inference from the statements in
the papers is, that the suit was instituted to subject the lands in
dispute to the payment of a debt, and that no personal decree
for money can be given against the appellants. The controversy seems to be as to the rights of the appellee in the
lands. The present bond is sufficient in amount to protect him
against loss pending the suit from sales for taxes if he avails
himself of the remedies by redemption and subrogation which
the law affords. At any rate the circumstances of the parties
do not appear to have changed in this particular since the
security was taken originally.

CRANE IRON COMPAINY v. HOAGLAND.
WURTS and Others v. SA_[E.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
Decided October 23d, 1882.

Practice.
Motions to dismiss with which are united motions to affirm, to strike out certain assignments of error, and to advance, denied when, in the absence of a
printed record, the assignment of errors in defendant's brief presents questions of which the court has jurisdiction.

The defendant moved to dismiss the writ of error, to affirm
the decision below, to strike out assignments of error, and to
advance the causes.
.M'. Theodo re Little for the movers.
.. Shipman against.
MR. CHIEF JusTicE WATE delivered the opinion of the court.
These axe writs of error to the Supreme Court of New
Jersey, and the motions to dismiss are made because, as is

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Syllabus.

claimed, no federal question is involved. The records have not
been printed, and on these motions we can look only to the
statements of counsel as they appear in the briefs. The assignment of errors has been printed in the brief for the defendants,
and the second and fifth assignments clearly present questions
of which we have jurisdiction. Whether the errors thus
assigned appear in the records we cannot on these motions, as
they are now presented, finally determine, but in the absence
of any showing to the contrary we will presume they do.
The motions to dismiss must therefore be overruled.
The questions involved are not of a character that we are indined to consider on a motion to affirm, especially before the
record is printed.
It will be time enough to consider the objections to the
assignment of errors when the cases come on for hearing.
The motions to advance the cases cannot be granted upon
the showing made.
.fotions denied.

WAPLES v. HAYS.
IN ERROR TO TIE

cCUrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Decided November 6th, 1882.

Confiscation-Mortgage- Subrogaton.
1. A mortgaged real estate in New Orleans to B. Proceedings being taken
against it under the Confiscation Acts as the property of A, B intervened.
The estate was condemned and sold to C, and the proceeds paid to B
under decree of court. After the death of A, suit was brought on behalf
of his heirs to recover possession of the property : Hreld, that C acquired
the life estate of A; that the heirs of A were entitled to recover; and that
neither the United States nor C was subrogated to the rights of B; also,
2. That under the practice of Louisiana, C could not, after going to trial on
the petition, object that it was defective by reason of not setting forth the
deed under which he claimed title.

The questions presented in this case arose on the following
facts:

