OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Syllabus.

original cannot be taken, he shall furnish the printer with
a manuscript copy. He shall supervise the printing, and see
that the printed copy is properly indexed. He shall take care
of and distribute the printed copies to the judges, the reporter,
and parties, from time to time, as required.
4. In cases where a manuscript copy of the record is not furnished the printer, the fee of the clerk for his service under the
last preceding paragraph shall be one-half the rates now
allowed by law for making a manuscript copy, and that shall
be charged to the party bringing the cause into court, unless
the court shall otherwise direct. When a manuscript copy is
required to be made, full fees for a copy may be charged, but
nothing in addition for the other services required.
5. In all cases the clerk shall deliver a copy of the printed
record to each party without extra charge. In cases of dismissal, reversal, or affirmance, with costs, the fee allowed in
the last paragraph shall be taxed against the party against
whom the costs are given. In cases of dismissal for want of
jurisdiction, such fees shall be taxed against the party bringing
the cause into court, unless the court shall otherwise direct.

JOHNSON and Another v. WATERS, Administrator.
APPE AT FROM THE CIICUIT COURT
THE DISTRICT

OF THE UNITED

OF

STATES

FOR

LOUISIANA.

Decided October 16th, 1882.

Practice.
It appearing that a personal decree for money could not be given, and the circumstances of the parties not being shown to have changed since the security was taken, a motion for additional security on the supersedeas bond
was denied.

Motion for additional security on the supersedeas bond.
.Mr. H. B. lfelley for the motion.
-Mr. J. A. Cwnpbell against.

CRANE IRON COMPANY v. HOAGLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

MmI. C=aF JusTicE WAr E delivered the opinion of the court.
This motion is denied. It does not appear from the motion
papers that the decree appealed from is collectible under
ordinary execution. The fair inference from the statements in
the papers is, that the suit was instituted to subject the lands in
dispute to the payment of a debt, and that no personal decree
for money can be given against the appellants. The controversy seems to be as to the rights of the appellee in the
lands. The present bond is sufficient in amount to protect him
against loss pending the suit from sales for taxes if he avails
himself of the remedies by redemption and subrogation which
the law affords. At any rate the circumstances of the parties
do not appear to have changed in this particular since the
security was taken originally.

CRANE IRON COMPAINY v. HOAGLAND.
WURTS and Others v. SA_[E.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
Decided October 23d, 1882.

Practice.
Motions to dismiss with which are united motions to affirm, to strike out certain assignments of error, and to advance, denied when, in the absence of a
printed record, the assignment of errors in defendant's brief presents questions of which the court has jurisdiction.

The defendant moved to dismiss the writ of error, to affirm
the decision below, to strike out assignments of error, and to
advance the causes.
.M'. Theodo re Little for the movers.
.. Shipman against.
MR. CHIEF JusTicE WATE delivered the opinion of the court.
These axe writs of error to the Supreme Court of New
Jersey, and the motions to dismiss are made because, as is

