OCTOBER TERM, 1882.

Syllabus.
special duty, nor are they anywhere authorized to make the final
assessment.
The report was merely a suggestion of their views for the
action of the District commissioners.
On the other hand, by the express language of the act, these
latter commissioners are directed to make the assessment on
which the parties are to pay, and on which, if they do not pay,
a certificate shall be issued which becomes an interest-bearing
lien on their property.
Another source of complaint is, that in making the necessary
excavations for the new pavement, it became necessary to support the track of the company by underpinning, which cost
$1,052.12, and was paid for by the paving commissioners. This
work was wholly for the benefit of the railroad company. It
was to prevent the track from falling or caving in while used
during the progress of the work, and the city authorities might
have left the company to take care of itself. But as this might
have delayed the work or led to litigation, they wisely protected it while they workel. It seems to us a proper charge
against the company alone, as they alone were benefited, and
their track made it necessary.
There is no error in the record, and
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Distrit is afflrmed.

RUGGLES v. ILLINOIS.
m
ERROR

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

ConstitutionalLaw-Contratts-IllinoisBailroads-Statues.
An amendment was made to the charter of a railroad company in Illinois providing that "the said company shall have power to make, ordain and
establish all such by-laws, rules and regulations as may be deemed expedient and necessary to fulfil the purposes and carry into effect the provisions
of this act, and for the well ordering, regulating and securing the affairs,
business, and interest of the company: Provided, That the same be not repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States, or repugnant to

YUGGLES v. ILLINOIS.
Statement of Facts.
this act. The board of directors shall have power to establish such rates
of toll for the conveyance of persons or property upon the same, as they
shall from time to time by their by-laws determine, and to levy and collect
the same for the use of the said company:" Held, That inasmuch as the
power to establish rates was to be exercised through by-laws, and the
power to make by-laws was restricted to such as should not be repugnant
(among other things), to the laws of the State, the amendment did not release the oompany from restrictions upon the amount of rates contained
in general and special statutes of the State.
Grants of immunity from legitimate governmental control are never to be
presumed; unless an exemption is clearly established the legislature is free
to act on all subjects within its general jurisdiction, as the public interests
may require.
When there is an ambiguity in the language of a statute it may be necessary
to inquire into the objects of the legislature in its enactment; or, if it be a
private act, the purposes of the beneficiaries in asking for it; but when the
language is clear, and needs no interpretation, and leads to no absurd conclusion, this will not be done.

Complaint before a justice of the peace in Illinois against
IRuggles for assault and battery upon one Lewis. Lewis came
on board a train on the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy
Railroad without a ticket. He tendered Ruggles, the conductor,
fare at the rate of three cents a mile. Ruggles refused to receive it and demanded the established rate of the company,
which wa more. Lewis not paying this, Ruggles attempted
at the next station, but without violence, to remove him from
the train. This was the alleged assault. Ruggles was convicted. The case was appealed until it reached the Supreme
Court of the State, when the judgment was affirmed. The
case came up on a writ of error, with the following certificate
of the chief justice of the Supreme Court of Illinois:
"This certifies that in the determination of this case there was
necessarily drawn in question the construction of that clause of
the Constitution of the United States which prohibits a State from
passing laws impairing the obligation of contracts. The plaintiff
in error or appellant claimed that he was justified in the act for
which he was prosecuted in the court below by the charters of
the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company, he being
a conductor on the railroad of said company, and that said charters conceded to said company the right to fix the rates for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.
transportation of persons and property over and upon said road,
and that said charters constituted a contract substantially guaranteed and protected by the Constitution of the United States ; and
I certify that said claim was disallowed and decided adversely to
the said appellant, by the said Supreme Court, upon the ground
that by virtue of the provisions of a statute of the State of Illinois,
passed subsequently to the granting of the charters of the said
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company, a less rate
of fare for transportation of persons and property upon said road
had been established by State authority than the rate fixed by the
company under the authority of its charter, and that said statute
controlled the charter of the company in regard to the rates of
transportation over and upon said road, and that the provisions
of said charters granting to said company the right to fix the
rates for the transportation of persons and property over its road
did not constitute a contract protected by the Constitution of the
United States, but was subject to alteration and modification by
the legislature of Illinois, all of which is hereby duly certified, to
the end that the said appellant may present the said question to
the Supreme Court of the United States for adjudication."
3b'. TMirt Dexter and .Xr. Sidney Bartlett for the plaintiff in
error.
31r. James R. Edsall and 3fMr. James _MlcCartney for the
defendants in error.
M
M.

CHIEF JUsTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
In the view we take of this case, the only question that need
be considered is, whether the charter of the Central Military
Tract Railroad Company, one of the Illinois corporations
which, through agreements of consolidation, are now represented by the Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy Railroad Company, purports on its face to grant to the company the right
to fix the rates of fare and freight to be charged for the conveyance of persons and property on its railroad, free of all
control by the State. If, on examination, we find that no such
grant was intended, it will be unnecessary to decide whether
one legislature has the power to bind succeeding legislatures by
a contract to that effect.

RUGGLES v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

The provisions of the charter relied on to establish such a
grant may be stated as follows:
On the 5th of November, 1849, an act was passed by the
general assembly of Illinois "to provide for a general system
That act contained the following
of railroad incorporations."

provisions:
"§ 12. The directors of such company shall have power to make
by-laws for the management and disposition of stock, property,
and business affairs of such company, not inconsistent with the
laws of this State, and prescribing the duties of officers, artificers,
and servants that may be employed, for the appointment of all
officers for carrying on all the business within the object and
purposes of such company.
"§ 21. Every such corporation shall possess the general powers
and be subject to the general liabilities and restrictions expressed
in the special powers following, that is to say:
"8. To take, transport, carry, and convey persons and property
on their railroad, by the force and power of steam, of animals, or
any mechanical powers, or by any combination of them, and receive tolls or compensation therefor.
"10. To regulate the time and manner in which passengers and
property shall be transported, and the tolls and compensation to
be paid therefor; but such compensation for any passenger and
his ordinary baggage shall not exceed three cents a mile, unless
by special act of the legislature, and shall be subject to alteration
as hereinafter provided.

§ 32. The legislature may, when any such railroad shall be
opened for use, from time to time, alter or reduce the rates of toll,
fare, freight, or other profits upon such road ; but the same shall
not, without the consent of the corporation, be so reduced as to
produce with said profits less than fifteen per cent. per annum on
the capital actually paid in ; nor, unless on an examination of the
amounts received and expended, to be made by the Secretary of
_State, he shall ascertain that the net income divided by the comVOL. cvII-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.
pany from all sources for the year then last past shall have exceeded an annual income of fifteen per cent. upon the capital of
the corporation actually paid in."
On the 15th of February, 1851, another act was passed to
incorporate the Central Military Tract Railroad Company, for
the purpose of building and using a railroad between certain
designated points. Section 3 of that act is as follows:
"§ 3. The said company is hereby created and incorporated for
the purpose of organizing under an act entitled ' An Act to provide
for a general system of railroad incorporations,' in force November 5th, 1849, and in all things shall be governed by the provisions
thereof, and shall be entitled to have and exercise the powers and
privileges and be subject to the liabilities therein enumerated:
Provided,That the foregoing corporation may attach themselves
to and form a part of the Northern Cross Railroad Company, in
such manner or on such terms as said companies shall agree."

On the 19th of June, 1852, another act was passed " to amend
an act entitled ' An Act to incorporate the Central Military Tract

Railroad Company.'

The following are the parts of this

amending act on which, in our opinion, the case depends:
"§ 5. All the corporate powers of said company shall be vested
in and exercised by a board of directors, and such officers and
agents as they shall appoint.
*
*
*
*
"§ 6. The said company shall have power to make, ordain, and
establish all such by-laws, rules and regulations as may be
deemed expedient and necessary to fulfil the purposes and carry
into effect the provisions of this act, and for the well ordering,
regulating, and securing the affairs, business, and interest of the
company: Provided,That the same be not repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States or of this State, or repugnant to this act. The board of directors shall have power to
establish such rates of toll for the conveyance of persons or property upon the same, as they shall from time to time by their bylaws determine, and to levy and collect the same for the use of
the said company. The transportation of persons and property,
the width of track, and all other matters and things respect-

RUGGLES v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.
ing the use of said road, shall be in conformity to such rules and
regulations as the said board of directors shall from time to time
determine."
It is contended on the part of the company that this amending act repeals clause 10 of section 21 as well as section 32 of the
general railroad law, so far as they are applicable to the Central Military Tract Company, and that under section 6 of the
amending act the directors have absolute control of rates of
fare and freight free of legislative interference. We deem it
unnecessary to determine the question of repeal, because on full
consideration we are satisfied that section 6 does not have the
effect that is claimed for it.
Grants of immunity from legitimate governmental control
axe never to be presumed. On the contrary, the presumptions
are all the other way, and unless an exemption is clearly
established the legislature is free to act on all subjects within
its general jurisdiction as the public interests may seem to require. As was said by Chief Justice Taney, speaking for the
court, in Charles River Bridge v. TFarren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420,
54'7; "It can never be assumed that the government intended
to diminish its power of accomplishing the end for which it was
created." This is an elementary principle.
In Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company v.
Iowa, 94 U. S. 155 ; Peik v. Chicago & .NorthwesternRailway
Company, 94 U. S. 164; and Vinona c St. Peter Railroad
Company v. Blake, 94 U. S. 180, it was determined that "a
State may limit the amount of charges by railroad companies
for fares and freights, unless restrained by some contract in the
charter." The right to a reversal of the present judgment rests
on the questio-n whether this company has any such restraining
contract, and that depends on the effect to be given the amefnding section 6.
The company by its original charter was authorized to transport passengers and property and to receive .compensation
therefor. This, if there had been nothing more, would, under
the rule stated in -Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, and the
several railroad cases decided at the same time, require the

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

company to carry at reasonable rates, and leave the legislature
at liberty to fix the maximum of what would be reasonable.
So that, laying aside the limitations of the old charter, the
question here is whether the amending section relied on has the
effect of taking away from the State this power of legislative
regulation.
The amending section provides that the company "shall have
power to make, ordain, and establish all such by-laws, rules, and
regulations as may be deemed expedient and necessary to fulfil
the purposes and carry into effect the provisions of this act, and
for the well ordering, regulating, and securing the affairs, business and interest of the company: Provided, That the same be
not repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States,
or of this State, or repugnant to this act." By section 5, all
the powers of the company were vested in and could be exercised by the directors. Clearly under this authority no by-law
can be established by the directors that does not conform to
the laws of the State, and this, whether the laws were in force
when the amended charter was granted or came into operation
afterwards. The power of the company for the regulation of its
own affairs was thus in express terms subjected to the legislative control of the State. The corporate power was a continuing one and intended for the ordering of the affairs of the company as circumstances might from time to time require. The
reserved control by the State was also continuing in its nature,
and manifestly intended for the protection of the public whenever in the judgment of the legislative department of the government the necessity should arise.
Then follows the special provision on which the claim of a
contract is predicated. It is as follows:
"The board of directors shall have power to establish such rates
of toll for the conveyance of persons or property upon the same
as they shall from time to time by their by-laws determine, and to
levy'and collect the same for the use of the company."

This is the form in which the power to charge and collect
compensation for the carriage of persons and property was

RUGGLES v. ILLINOIS.

533

Opinion of the Court.

granted by the amended charter. The rates must be fixed by
by-laws, and no by-law can be made that is at all repugnant
to the laws of the State. The first paragraph of the section,
with its proviso, prescribes generally what is necessary to the
validity of a by-law, and the second allows the directors to fix
rates by by-laws. It is undoubtedly true that the first paragraph neither adds to nor takes from the inherent power of a
corporation to make by-laws for the regulation of its affairs,
and that the proviso is nothing more than a legislative declaration of the principle of the common law that all by-laws must
be reasonable, and not in conflict with the laws of the State.
But the very fact that such a provision would have been. implied, adds to the significance of its incorporation in express
terms, into the charter, and manifests a determination not to
leave room for doubt as to the right of the State to use its legislative power if necessary for the regulation of the affairs of
the corporation, at least by the enactment of general laws applicable to all corporations of a like character, and engaged in
a like business. There is nothing which even in the remotest
degree indicates that a by-law fixing rates is to be of a different character from those regulating the other business of the
company. When, therefore, in a section of the charter which
expressly declares that no by-law shall be made that is in conflict with the laws of the State, we find that the rates of charge
to be levied and collected for the conveyance of persons and
property are to be regulated by by-laws, the conclusion is irresistible that only such charges can be collected as are allowed
by the laws of the State. This implies that, in the absence of
direct legislation on the subject, the power of the directors over
the rates is subject only to the common-law limitation of
reasonableness, for in the absence of a statute, or other appropriate indication of the legislative will, the common law forms
part of the laws of the State to which the corporate by-laws
must conform. But since, in the absence of some restraining
contract, the State may establish a maximum of rates to be
charged by railroad companies for the transportation of persons
and property, it follows that when a maximum is so established the rates fixed by the directors must conform to its

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

requirements, otherwise the by-laws will be repugnant to the
laws.
It is argued, however, that this cannot be the meaning of the
amending act, because, if the company had, under its old
charter, the absolute right of fixing rates, subject only to a
limit of three cents a mile on passengers, and the State had no
power to interfere, except to keep the annual profits down to
fifteen per cent. per annum on the paid-up capital, no one can
believe it would have surrendered such a privilege and taken in
lieu another so unfavorable as this. ' It is undoubtedly true, as
was claimed in argument, and has been often said from the
bench, that amendments to the charters of corporations are
usually made at the solicitation of the corporations themselves,
who cause the bills to be prepared and submitted to the legislatures for enactment, and that, if there is doubt as to the construction of what is enacted, this fact may be resorted to in aid
of interpretation. But Vattel's first general maxim of interpretation is that "it is not allowable to interpret what has no
need of interpretation," and he continues: "When a deed is
worded in clear and precise terms-when its meaning is evident
and leads to no absurd conclusion-there can be no reason for
refusing to admit the meaning which such deed naturally presents. To go elsewhere in search of conjectures, in order to restrict or extend it, is but to elude it." Vattel's Law of Nations,
244. Here the words are plain and interpret themselves. The
directors may establish such by-laws as they please, provided
they are not repugnant to the Constitution and laws, and they
may by their by-laws regulate the rates of fare and freight. As
their by-laws must conform to the laws of the State, so must
their rates. If the State had not the legislative power to
regulate the charges of carriers for hire, the case would
be different. But that question has been settled, and the
amended charter which this company secured from the legislature must be construed in the light of that established
power.
Without, therefore, undertaking to determine what rights as
to fares and freights were secured to the company under the
old charter, nor whether more was gained by the other pro-

RUGGLES v. ILLINOIS.
Concurring Opinion: Harlan, J.

visions of the new charter than was lost by the acceptance of
section six as it was enacted,
The af rm thejudgment.
MR. JUSTICE, HRLAN concurring.

In Xunn v. BlJinois, 94 U. S. 113, this court held that

there was nothing in the Constitution of the United States
which prevented the legislature of Illinois from fixing, by
statute, the maximum of charges for the storage of grain in
warehouses at Chicago and other places in that State, where
grain is stored in bulk, and in which the grain of different
owners is mixed together, or in which the grain is stored in such
a manner that the identity of different lots or parcels cannot
be accurately preserved.
Immediately following that case is CMicago, Burlington &
Quincy Railroad Oompany v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155, which in-

volved the validity of a statute of Iowa establishing "reasonable maximum rates of charges for the transportation of
freights and passengers" on the different railroads of that
State. Touching that case it may be observed that the court
conceded that a railroad corporation might be protected by its
charter against absolute legislative control as to rates of fare
and freight, but that the power of the corporation which there
questioned the validity of the law of Iowa was, by its charter,
made subject to such legislation as the legislature might, from
time to time, establish.
"They [railroad corporations] are, therefore," said the court,

"engaged in public employment affecting the public interest,
and, under the decision in Munn v. Illinois, subject to legislative control, unless protected by their charters. The Burlington
& Missouri River Railroad Company, the benefit.of whose char-

ter the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company now
claims, was organized under the general corporation law of Iowa,
with power to contract, in reference to its business, the same as
private individuals, and to establish by-laws and make all rules
and regulations deemed expedient in relation to its affairs, but being subject, nevertheless, at all times, to such rules and regulations
as the general assembly of Iowa might,from time to time, enact

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Concurring Opinion: Harlan, J.
andprovide. This is, in substance, its charter, and to that extent
it is protected as by a contract; for it is now too late to contend
that the charter of a corporation is not a contract within the meaning of that clause in the Constitution of the United States which
prohibits a State from passing any law impairing the obligation of
a contract. Whatever is granted is secured subject only to the
limitations and reservations in the charter, or in the laws or constitutions which govern it."
In Peik v. Chicago & lYorthwestern Railway Company, 94
U. S. 164, a similar statute of Wisconsin was sustained as
within the power of its legislature to enact. The court said:
"In X,unn v. Illinois and Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
Railroad Company v. Iowa, we decided that the State may limit
the amount of charges by railroad companies for fares and
freight, unless restrainedby some contract, even though their income may have been pledged as security for the payment of obligations incurred upon the faith of the charter"
It was also said in that case:
"When property has been clothed with a public interest, the
legislature may fix a limit to that which shall, in law, be reasonable for its use. This limit binds the courts as well as the
people."
The language last quoted, it must not be overlooked, was
used in reference to a railroad charter granted under the Constitution of Wisconsin, which expressly provided that all acts
for the creation of corporations within the State "may be
altered or repealed by the legislature at any time after their
passage."
In Wfinona c St. Peter Railroad Company v. Blake, 94 U.
S. 180, it was decided that, as there was nothing in the charter
of the railroad company limiting the power of the State to
regulate charges for freight and passengers, it was competent
for the legislature to require the company to carry on equal and
reasonable terms; this, because, as the court ruled, it was incident to the occupation in which the corporation was engaged,

RUGGLES v. ILLINOIS.
Concurring Opinion: Harlan, J.

and for which it was created a carrier, to collect only a reasonable compensation for carriage. The act was there held as
adding nothing to, and taking nothing from the grant as contained in the original charter.
These cases establish, among others, these principles: 1. That
the charter of a railroad corporation is a contract within the
meaning of the contract clause of the federal Constitution. 2.
That such corporation may be protected by its charter against
absolute legislative control in the matter of rates for the carriage
of passengers and freight. 3. That when the charter is granted
subject to such regulations as the legislature from time to time
may provide, or subject to the authority of the legislature to
alter or repeal it, in either of such cases the legislature has the
same power over rates or tolls that it had when the charter was
granted. 4. In the absence of statutory regulations upon the
subject, it is necessarily implied from the occupation of a railroad corporation that it shall exact only reasonable compensation for carriage.
How far these principles control the present case I proceed
now to inquire.
The general railroad law of 1849 authorized railroad corporations created under it to regulate tolls and compensation for
the transportation of passengers and property, subject to these
restrictions: That compensation for a passenger and his ordinary baggage should not exceed three cents a mile, unless by
special act of the legislatu~e; further, that the legislature may,
from time to time, alter or reduce the rates of toll, fare, freight,
or other profits upon such railroad, provided the same should
not, without the consent of the corporation, be so reduced as to
produce with said profits less than fifteen per cent. per annum on
the capital actually paid in, nor, unless on an examination of the
amounts received and expended, to be made by the Secretary
of State, he shall ascertain that the net income derived by
the company from all sources for the year then last passed exceeded an annual income of fifteen per cent. upon the capital
so actually paid in.
The act of February 15th, 1851, incorporating the Central
Military Tract Railroad Company-one of the constituent cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Concurring Opinion: Harlan, J.

porations which, by consolidation, make the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company, and to the benefit of whose
charter the latter is entitled-declares that it is created for the
purpose of organizing under the general law of 1849, "and in
all things shall be governed by the provisions thereof, and shall
be entitled to have and exercise the powers and privileges and
be subject to the liabilities therein enmnerated." The provisions of the act of 1849, enumerating the powers and privileges to be enjoyed by, and the liabilities imposed upon,
corporations organized thereunder, thus became a part of the
charter of the Central Military Tract Railroad Company.
If the determination of this case turned solely upon the
question whether the act of 1871 establishing maximum charges
for all railroads in Illinois, deprived this company of any contract right declared or given by the law of 1849, there would
be no difficulty in affirming the judgment; for, in the first
place, the amount tendered, in this case, to conductor Ruggles,
and which he refused to accept as the entire compensation to
be paid by Lewis, the passenger, was all that was allowed by
the act of 1871, and all that the company, in the absence of a
special act, was permitted by the law of 1849 to collect;
further, there is no evidence in the record that the passenger
rates as established by the act of 1871, will reduce the profits
of the company below the aggregate amount which by its
charter it was entitled to realize, and within which the legislature, by express reservation, could restrict it. But in behalf
of appellant it is contended that by the sixth section of the act
of June 19th, 1852, the corporation was invested with absolute
control, through its directors, of the whole subject of rates; in
other words, that the legislature, in that section, removed the
restriction in the act of 1849 of three cents per mile for a
passenger and his ordinary baggage, and, by necessary implication, surrendered its power to make even the reduction provided for in that statute.
In this view, as to the construction of the act of 1852, I do
not concur. That act is not absolutely inconsistent, upon the
subject of rates, with the general statute of 1849. They may
stand together, and since repeals by implication are not favored,

RUGGLES v. ILLINOIS.
Concurring Opinion: Harlan, J.

they should be so construed as, if possible, to make them both
operative. The statute of 1849 gave the corporation the
general power, within a certain limit, of regulating tolls and
compensation to be paid for the transportation of passengers
and property. But it did not prescribe the particular mode by
which the public should be informed as to the rates established.
I incline to think that the purpose of the act of 1852 was to
declare, as a condition precedent to power in the directors to
levy and collect tolls, that the rates should not be determined
at the mere discretion of the company's superintendent or agents
charged with the management of its business, but-keeping
within the limits prescribed by the law of 1849-should be
fixed by the directors in the by-laws of the corporation. It
should not be presumed that the legislature intended by the
general language of the act of 1852 to abrogate the restrictions
in the act of 1849, and to surrender, as to the Central Military
Tract Railroad Company, the power, reserved in the general
law, of keeping the profits of all railroad corporations created
under it, as that one was, within fifteen per cent. upon the
capital actually paid in.
But I do not concur in so much of the opinion of the court
as seems to rest upon the ground that, apart from the law of
1849, the question of tolls to be charged by the Central Military
Tract Railroad Company was, under the act of 1852, exclusively
for legislative determination, and, in no case, of judicial cognizance. The court holds that, testing the right of the company
entirely by the latter act-in other words, assuming that the
sixth section of the act of 1852 superseded all in the act of
1849 upon the subject of rates-the judiciary may not inquire
whether the rates established by the legislature are less than
reasonable compensation for the carriage of persons and
property; that is, that the legislative determination is conclusive. I concede that the sixth section of the act of 1852 does
not place the subject of rates within the absolute control of
the company; so as to authorize it to levy and collect tolls beyond what would afford proper remuneration for the services
rendered; this, because, as already shown, the law implies, as
incident to its business, that the company shall exact only

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Concurring Opinion: Harlan, J.

reasonable tolls. But the legislature, by the sixth section of
the act of 1852, agreed that the directorsmight levy and collect
such reasonable rates as they should, from time to time, establish by their by-laws. The introduction into that section
of the special clause relating to rates, after and in connection with the general clause conferring power to make
by-laws, rules and regulations, in reference to the affairs, business and interest of the company, not inconsistent with the
laws of the State, was entirely unnecessary, and is meaningless,
if not intended to assure those who put their means into the
proposed road, that, as to the tolls to be levied and collected,
they should be established by the directors within the limit of
reasonableness, and not left to the uncontrolled discretion of
the legislature. In other words, the company has--putting
aside the general law of 1849-a contract with the State that
it may, by its directors, establish, levy, and collect reasonable
tolls. The court holds, erroneously, as I think, that no contract,
in any view of the case, arises out of the act of 1852, and that,
consistently with its provisions, the judiciary cannot inquire
whether the rates established by the board of directors are or
are not reasonable. Although the rates fixed by the legislature may be shown to be ruinously low, the judiciary cannot,
according to the decision of the court, protect the coipany in
the exercise of the power granted to it of establishing, levying,
and collecting reasonable tolls.
I am of opinion that if the act of 1852 is to be regarded
either alone or as superseding the law of 1849, it constitutes a
contract between the State and the company, whereby the
latter acquired an exemption from absolute legislative control
as to rates, and secured, beyond the power of the legislature to
withdraw, the right, through its directors, from time to time,
within the limit of reasonableness, to establish rates of toll for
the transportation of persons and property. If this be so, it
results that all controversies involving rights under this contract
must be adjusted, as in all other cases of contract, in the courts
according to the established principles of law, and are not determinable by, or wholly dependent upon, the will of one of
the parties. The company, or any one acting by its authority,

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R.R. CO. v. ILLINOIS.

541

Counsel for Parties.

has the right to submit to the courts the question whether rates
prescribed by any subsequent act of the legislature will give
that reasonable compensation which the State agreed, in the
act of 1852, might be exacted by the company under by-laws
established by its board of directors.
The act of 1852 does not, I think, supersede the provisions of
the general law of 1849 upon the subject of rates. But since
the company (if we look alone to the act of 1852) has failed to
show that the rates fixed in the act of 1871 are unreasonable,
and since-if the thirty-second sectionof the act of 1849 is still
in force-it does not appear that those rates would reduce the
company's'profits below the amount to which, by that section,
they could be restricted by subsequent legislation, I concur in
affirming the judgment.
FIELD, J.-I concur in the judgment in this case solely on
the ground that no proof was made that the rate prescribed by
the legislature was unreasonable. Under previous decisions of
the court the legislative rate is to be taken as presumptively
reasonable.
I do not give any weight to -Mrunn v. Illinois. My objections to the decision in that case were expressed at the time it
was rendered, and they have been strengthened by subsequent
reflection. Besides, that case does not relate to corporations
or to common carriers.
M . JUSTICE BLATOHFORD did not sit in this case.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. THE
PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

.Y. John A. Campbell and Xr2. John ff7. Jewett for plaintiff
in error.

.Xh. James .JcCartney, Attorney-General of Illinois, -r.

