OCTOBER TERMI,

1882.

Statement of Facts.

Cummings v. Jones, 104 U. S. 419. In Brooks v. lTorris, 11
How. 204, it was decided, Chief Justice Taney speaking for
the court, that "the writ of error is not brought, in the legal
meaning of the term, until it is filed in the court which rendered the judgment. It is the filing of the writ that removes
the record from the inferior to the appellate court, and the
period of limitation prescribed by the act of Congress must
be calculated accordingly." This case is cited with approval
in -Yussinca v. Cavazos, 6 Wall. 355.
It follows that the writ of error in this case was not brought
within the time limited by law, and we have consequently no
jurisdiction. For that reason
Thie writ is dismissed.

LOUISIANA ex rel. NEW ORLEANS GAS LIGHT COMPANY v. CITY COUNCIL OF NEW ORLEANS &
Another.
IN ERROR TO THE

SUPRE ME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

ConstitutionalLaw-Jurisdiction.
Where a party seeks a writ of mandamus from a State court to compel a city
government of which he is a creditor to apply to the payment of his debt
the proceeds of a proposed sale of city property, and to exhaust its powers of taxation, and continue to do so until the relator's debt is paid, and
the State court denies the prayer as to the application of the proceeds of
sale of the property, on the ground that the State laws require it to be applied to the retirement of other debts of the city, and grants the writ as to
the residue of the prayer, no federal question arises.

Petition to the judge of the Fourth District Court of the
Parish of Orleans in Louisiana, setting forth that the petitioners are judgment creditors of the city of New Orleans; that
the city government has power to levy taxes to an amount
named in the petition; that it is about to part with valuable privileges for a large sum of money; and praying that
the city government may be required to include in its next

LOUISIANA v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

estimate of receipts the proceeds of the sales of the privileges,
and in its next budget of expenses the debt of the relators,
and to exhaust its powers of taxation and continue to do so
till the relator's judgment is paid and satisfied. Pending the.
proceedings the city government made sale of the privileges
and placed the proceeds to the credit of the premium bond
fund. The court held that this was rightly done, and granted
the petitioners' prayer as to the remainder of their petition.
They appealed to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, where the
judgment below was sustained. They then brought their
writ of error to review the case here.
for relators and plaintiffs in error.
.M'. [homas i:T' S
Mr. (2 IV Buck for defendants in error.
CHIEF JusTICE WA=rru delivered the opinion of the court.
We have no jurisdiction in this case. No title, right, privilege, -or immunity set up or claimed by the relator under the
Constitution of the United States has been denied him by the
judgment of the court below. The prayer of the petition for
mandamus was, among other things, that in order to secure a
sufficient fund to provide for the payment of certain judgments
in favor of the relator against the city of New Orleans, the
council of the city might be required, if necessary, to "exhaust
their powers of taxation, and continue so to do until relator's
judgment is paid and satisfied." No request was made in the
petition for a determination of the extent of the power of
taxation for the purpose specified. A judgment was entered in
the court of original jurisdiction granting the writ in the
exact form prayed for. This judgment was affirmed by the
supreme court of the State on appeal. After the judgment of
affirmance was entered, a rehearing was asked, in order that
the judgment of the court of original jurisdiction might be
made more clear and specific. This was refused. No right
to any specific rate of taxation has been denied. That question
has been left unsettled, and there was nothing in the pleadings
which required the court to do more than it has done. As the
judgment is for a writ requiring the council to do all it has in

M.

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

law the power to do to raise the money to pay the relator's demand, no right has been denied. While the court might have
defined in more exact terms the precise power to be exercised,
its omission to do so is not ground for appeal to our jurisdiction.
It follows that the writ of error in this case must be dismissed
for 'want of jarisdction,and an orde-r to that efect is

made.

