OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Statement of Facts.

MANNING & Another v. CAPE ANN ISINGLASS &
GLUE COMPANY & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF 'MASSACHUSETTS.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

Patent.
The facts in this case show a public use of the alleged invention for more than
four years prior to the date of the patent.

This was a suit brought by the appellants, John J. Manning
and Caleb J. Norwood, to restrain the infringement by the appellees of letters patent dated January .th, 1873, issued to
the appellants and W. N. Manning, as assignees of the inventor, James Manning. By the subsequent assignment of
W. N. Manning the appellants became vested with the title
to the entire patent.
It is well known that the swimming-bladders or sounds of
certain fishes are largely composed of that variety of gelatin called isinglass. The sounds are usually found in the
market in'a dry and hard state. They are manufactured
into isinglass by a mechanical operation which consists in
passing the macerated sounds successively between several
sets of rollers, the first set kneading the sounds into a homogeneous sheet, and the subsequent sets squeezing and elongat-"
ing the sheets into the ribbons of isinglass known to commerce. The invention covered by the patent sued on was
for "an improvement in the manufacture of isinglass from
fish sounds."
The specification of the patent declared as follows:
"In the manufacture of ribbon isinglass from fish sounds it is

customary to feed the softened and moist or macerated sounds to
and between feed and compressing rollers, by which the viscid
substance is compressed and joined and formed into a continuous
sheet. Notwithstanding the constant application of cold water
into the rolls, the substance adheres tenaciously to the roll and

MANNING v. CAPE ANN ISINGLASS & GLUE CO. 463
Statement of Facts.
accumulates thereupon, and has to be cut away therefrom, an operation which is very slow and laborious and productive of imperfeet sheets.
"MAy invention is designed to obviate the return of the adhering gelatinous substance to the action of the rolls before it is
stripped therefrom, and to so strip it that the rolls may work continuously or without stoppage, the ribbon, ds it is stopped, being
again fed or guided by the operator into and between the rolls
until sufficiently reduced or elongated for removal or for the
action of other rolls set nearer together to produce a thinner
ribbon.
"To effect this result I place at the side of each roll a scraper
extending the whole length of the roll, and having an edge set up
to the roll, so that the roll shall run just clear of it, which scraper
or cleaner strips from the whole surface of the roll the adhering
gelatine in the form of a sheet.
"The invention consists in this method of passing the isinglass
between hollow rolls, cooled by water thrown into the rolls, and
then stripping the gelatinous matter from' the rollers and returning it to the hopper to be again treated, the rollers being adjustable."
The claim was as follows:
"The herein described method of converting isinglass into
sheets of any desired thickness by running it between hollow rolls
into which cold water is thrown to cool the compressing surfaces,
such rolls being preferably made adjustable to graduate the degree of compression, and the adhering sheets being removed from
the rolls by stationary scrapers or clearers and returned to the
hopper as required."
One of the defences set up in answer and relied on was that
the improvement described in the patent had been in public use
for more than two years before the patent was applied for.
The circuit court dismissed the bill on that ground. From
its decree this appeal was prosecuted by the complainants.
-Mr. Twmas Wiliam Clarke for appellants.
.Yr. George Z. Robert for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUsTICE WOODs delivered the opinion of the court.

We think that the defence, that the improvement described
in the patent had been in public use for more than two years
prior to the application therefor, is established by the testimony.
The appellants contend that the patent covers an improvement in the process of making isinglass. It is not contended
that the patent covers the rolls between which the fish-sounds
are passed, or the keeping of the rolls cool by making them
hollow and injecting a stream of cold water into the cavity,
nor the automatic scrapers, but in the use of automatic scrapers
applied to such rolls to prevent the isinglass from being carried
through the rolls a second time without aeration.
The testimony shows that, as early as the year 1860, James
Manning, the inventor, was engaged in the manufacture of
isinglass at Ipswich, Mass., in copartnership with his brotherin-law, Caleb Norwood, under the same of Norwood & Manning. In that year Oliver C. Smith, a machinist at Salem,
constructed for the firm a machine containing adjustable hollow
water-cooled rolls, with stationary scrapers, substantially such
as are described in the patent, for converting isinglass into
sheets in the manner therein set forth. The use of this machine
was continued down to the year 1867, when the firm of Norwood & Manning was dissolved. In the division of the assets
of the firm between the partners, the machine with the scraper,
made by Smith, fell to Norwood. He took into the business
-ith him as a partner his son, Caleb J. Norwood, and continued
it in the same factory from 1867 to 1870, using the machine
with the stationary scraper which had been made by Smith.
James Manning, after the dissolution of the firm of Norwood
& Manning, established an isinglass factory at Rockport, Mass.,
and procured to be constructed two machines similar to that
disclosed in the patent. With this factory and machinery he
set up in business his two sons, John J. Manning and William
N. Manning, and they carried on the business of manufacturing
isinglass, under the name of J. J. Manning & Brother, from the
year 1868 until the testimony in this case was taken in 1877,
using the two machines with scrapers above mentioned. James
Manning, the inventor, had no interest in the business carried

MANNING v. CAPE AN

ISINGLASS & GLUE CO. 465

Opinion of the Court.
on by N{orwood and his son after the dissolution of the firm of
Norwood and Manning in 1867, nor in the business of J. J.
Manning & Brother, carried on from 1868 until after the issue
of the patent.
Some attempt is made to show that the use of the machines
in the factory of Caleb Norwood, from 1867 to 1870, was a
secret and not a public use. But we think the testimony shows
a use open to the public generally. But whether this be so or
not is immaterial, for Norwood and his son were allowed by
the inventor the unrestricted use of the patent during the period
mentioned, without injunction of secrecy or other condition.
gbert v. Lp nu,
This is sufficient to constitute a public use.
104 T. S. 333.
The decided weight of the evidence shows that there was
also a public use of the invention in the factories of J. J. Manning & Brother for more than four years prior to the application
for the patent, namely, from 1868 to 1873.
It is also made clear by the testimony, not only that the
machinery, but the process used by INorwood & Manning from
1860 to 1867, by lorwood & Son from 1867 to 1870, and by
J. J. Manning & Brother from 1868 to 1873, and after that
year was substantially the same as that described in the patent.
During all these years there was no material change, either in
the machinery or the process. The use of the machinery and
process was not, therefore, an experimental use. These conclusions of fact are fatal to the complainant's case.
It is the policy of the patent laws to forbid the issue of a
patent for an invention which has been in public use before
the application therefor. The statute of 1836, 5 Stat. 117,
section 6, did not allow the issue of a patent when the invention
had been in public use or on sale for any period, however short,
with the consent or allowance of the inventor; and the statute of 1870, 16 Stat. 201, section 24; Rev. Stat. ยง 4886, does
not allow the issue, when the invention had been in public use
for more than two years prior to the application, either with or
without the consent or allowance of the inventor. Under
either of these statutes the patent relied on in this case was
improvidently issued, for there was a public use, with the conVoL. CvII-80

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

sent of the inventor, for more than two years prior to the application. The patent is threefore void. XJcClurg v. .ingsknd,
1 How. 202; Pgbert v. Lippman, xbi supra; Consolidated,
FruitJar Co. v. Wright, 94 U. S. 92; Worley v. Tobacco Co.,
104 U. S. 340.
T7e decree of the circuit court must be afrmed.

DOWNTON v. YEAGER MILLING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

Patent-PrintedPublication.
1. The doctrine reaffirmed that the earlier printed and published description
of a subject of a patent which is put in evidence to invalidate a patent
must be in terms that would enable a person skilled in the art or science
to which it appertains to make. construct and practise the invention as
completely as he could do by the aid of information derived from a prior
patent; and that unless it is sufficiently full to enable such person to
comprehend it wfthout assistance from the patent, or to make it or repeat
the process claimed, it is insufficient to invalidate the patent.
2. Applying the doctrine to this case, the appellant's patent held to be void.

The appellant was the complainant in the circuit court. He
filed his bill to restrain the infringement by the appellee of
certain letters patent, for which he made an application on
March 20th, 1875, and which were issued to him on April 20th
following, for an "improvement in processes of manufacturing
middlings flour."
The state of the art, and the purpose of the improvement
which the patent was intended to cover, were set forth in the
specification, as follows:
"This invention has for its aim the better working or manipulating of grain particles known as middlings, for their reduction
into meal or flour.
"To fully set forth the advantages that this process possesses

