OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

of the court did not sit in it and two dissented from the judgment pronounced by the other four.
It follows from the views expressed that the judgment of the
court below must be reversed and a new trial had; and
I is so o rdered.

CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE

COM-

PANY v. LUCHS.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPRE E COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUIBIA.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

Fraud--Inurance.
A and B formed a partnership with a capital of $10,000, in which each was to
contribute one-half the capital. A furnished B's moiety temporarily, and
when after some time B failed to comply with his agreement, A, in May,
1869, applied for a policy on B's life for $5,000. One of the brothers of B
had committed suicide. One of the questions asked A by the company was
as to the number of brothers of B deceased, and causes of death ; to this
A made no answer. B, in the previous February. had applied to the same
company for a policy, and in answer to the same question had replied:
"Brothers dead, one; cause of death, accident." A policy was issued on
A's application, by which the company agreed to insure the life of B for
$5,000, and to pay the money "to the assured" within 30 days after notice
of the death of B. B died in an insane asylum. Held,
1. That although by the terms of the policy the life of B was insured, the
person in whose favor it was assured was A, and that the action on the
policy was rightfully brought in his name.
2. That A had an insurable interest in B's life to the extent of the moiety of
the capital which B should have contributed to the firm, without respect
to the condition of the partnership accounts, unless his estimate of the
interest at the time of the application was made in bad faith.
8. That the failure of A to answer the question as to the suicide of B's brother
could not necessarily be imputed as a fraud; and that the concealment of
the cause of the brother's death in B's application could not be imported
into this suit and applied to defeat A's application.

Suit to recover the sum of $5,000 alleged to be assured to
the plaintiff below, and defendant in error, Luchs, on the life of
one Dillenberg. Pleas: 1st. Non debet; 2d. That the plaintiff had no insurable interest in Dillenberg's life; 3d. That the

CONN\ECTICUT MIUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. LUCHS. 499
Statement of Facts.
policy was procured through fraudulent concealment of ma,
terial facts, and by means of false representation. Luchs and
Dillenberg entered into a copartnership, in which the capital
was to be $10,000.
Of this each to contribute one-half.
Luchs actually contributed all; and when Dillenberg failed to
contribute his half he applied to the defendant's agent in
Washington for a policy of $5,000 on Dillenberg's life. Dillenberg had three months previously applied to the same agent
for a policy on his own life, and in reply to a question propounded respecting his family had made the following answer:Brothers living, one ;
48; health, good.

ages,

Brothers dead, one ; ages,
23 ; cause of death, accident.

Luchs to the same question replied:
Brothers living, one ; ages,
Brothers dead,
48 ; health, good.
; cause of death,

;

age,

On this application a policy was issued, of which the following is the material part:
"This policy of insurance witnesseth, that the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, in consideration of the declarations
and representations made to them in the application for this insurance, and the sum of one hundred and twenty-five dollars and
cents, to them in hand paid by Leopold Luchs, of Washington, D. C., and of the annual premium of one hundred and
twenty-five dollars and
cents, to be paid on or before the
second day of June in every year during'the continuance of this
policy, to assure the life of Levi Dillenberg, of Washington, in
the county of Washington, District of Columbia, in the amount
of five thousand dollars, for the term of the whole continuance of
his life.
"And the said company do hereby promise and agree to and
with the said assured, his executors, administrators, and assigns,
well and truly to pay, or cause to be paid, in the city of Hartford, the said sum insured to the said assured, his executors, administrators, or assigns, within ninety days after due notice and
proof of the death of the said Levi Dillenberg, deducting therefrom all indebtedness of the party for loans made by the company on this policy."

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1882:
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

At the trial the court instructed the jury as follows:
"1. If the jury find from the evidence that in May, 1869, the
plaintiff and Levi Dillenberg were in partnership, and that to
that partnership the plaintiff contributed all the capital and

both contributed their services, and that they shared the profits
equally, and that the policy in suit was applied for by the plaintiff under an agreement between him and Levi Dillenberg,
whereby the latter undertook to pay the premiums on the same,
and that this agreement was made by said Dillenberg, because
of an obligation which he agreed he was under to the plaintiff,
growing out of the receipt, past or prospective, by Dillenberg
of one-half of the partnership profits, and that said policy was
taken out by the plaintiff in good faith and not for the purpose
of speculating on said Dillenberg's life, then they will render a
verdict for the plaintiff on defendant's second plea."
"4. Since [in] the application upon which the policy in suit was
issued, there is no answer to the questions, ' brothers dead ; age ;
cause of death,' it follows that there is no warranty in respect of
the information called for by said questions."
The defendants excepted. The jury rendered a verdict for
the plaintiff for the full amount. The defendants brought the

case here on error.
.M'X.Enoch Totten for the plaintiff in error.-I. An action
on this policy can be maintained under any circumstances, the
most favorable to Luchs, only in the name of the administrator
of Dillenberg. lHollis v. -Richardson,13 Gray, 392; Burroughs v. Assurance Company, 97 Mass. 359 ; Gould v. Dierson, 99 Mass. 154; Campbell v. New England Insurance Comyany, 98 Mass. 381 ; Bailey v. Insurance Company, 114 Mass.
177; Exchange Bank v. Rice, 107 M ass. 37.-I1. If this policy
was taken out by Luchs on the life of Dillenberg, for the benefit of the former, it was a wager policy, and is void, because at
the date of the application he did not have an interest in the
life of Ibillenberg to the extent of $10,000 ; he had no insurable
interest whatsoever in Dillenberg's life; on the contrary, he was

actually indebted to Dillenberg; there is no pretence here that
there was any interest held by Luchs, unless it existed by

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. LUCHS.

501

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

reason of the copartnership business; and the testimony of the
plaintiff's own expert witness, corroborated by his own books
of accouat, establish the fact beyond controversy that at the
date of the application for the insurance the firm was indebted
to Dillenberg to the extent of over $4,000. A valid insurance
cannot be effected by one man upon the life of another unless
there is an indebtedness existing in favor of the person who
takes out- the policy, or the equivalent, and the indebtedness
must be in proportion to the amount of the insurance. Cammack v. Lewis, 15 Wall. 643. It has been held that the near
relationship of father and son does not constitute an insurable
inserest in thre son on the father's life, unless the son has a wellfounded or reasonable exTectation of some pecuniary advantage to be derived from the continuance of the life of the
father. See also, Guardian Life Insurance Company v.
Hogan, 80 Ill. 35 ; MVay on Insurance, see. 107. Cammack v.
Lewis, 15 Wall. 643; Insurance Company v. Sturges, 18 Kansas, 93; Stevens v. Warren, 101 Mass. 564; Ruse v. Afutual
Benefit 1ife Insurance Company, 23 N. Y. 516; May on Insurance, 398; TFarnock v. -Davis,104 U. S. 715. In Lewis v.
.Ph'amiw Lfe Isurance Company, 39 Conn. 100, it was held
that the mere relationship of brother, without more, is not
sufficient to support a life insurance policy.-III. The court instructed the jury in pursuance of a prayer of plaintiff's counsel
that "since in the application upon which the policy in suit is
issued, there is no answer to the questions, 'Brothers dead;
age; cause of death,' it follows that there is no warranty in
respect of the information called for by said questions." The
court in this connection denied the prayer of defendant's
counsel as to the right of the company to refer to and rely
upon the former application to which its attention had been
specially invited by the applicant in this case. This was error.
For some purpose, inferable only from the extraordinary. circumstances and evidence disclosed in this case, Dillenberg,
with the help of Myers, procured a policy on his own life for
$5,000 from this company on an application dated only about
three months before this application, and written by Myers ; in
the first application the same interrogatory about the number

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

of brothers dead and the cause of death, is put to Dillenberg,
and he answers that one of his brothers is dead and that the
cause of his death was "accident."
This answer Myers knew
to be false at the time he wrote the application. In the last
application this question remains unanswered, but the former
application is twice referred to in the latter. The defendant
proved at the trial that when the examining officer of the coinpany noticed the omission lie referred to the former application, and there found it stated that the cause of death of the
brother was "accident;" upon this information the present
policy was issued. The officers of the company had a right to
presume that the information on this point was truly given in
the former application in any case, and especially in view of
the fact that they were twice referred to it for information.
The reference in this application to the "former application"
for information, makes that application a part of this one, and
a false answer in that will be as fatal as if in this. .Rawlsv.
American .f-utual 1ife ITn&ura2ce Company, 27 N. Y. 282;
Bliss on Life Insurance, p. 78, 609, ยง 3941 and ยง 57; Iawkins v.
United States, 96 U. S. 689; Clark v. .anufacturers' Insurance Company, 2 W. & M. 472.
Alp. JUSTICE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action by Leopold Luchs on a policy of insurance
upon the life of Levi IDillenberg, issued by the Connecticut Life
Insurance Company in June, 1869. Luchs and Dillenberg were
partners at the time in the business of buying and selling
tobacco in the city of Washington. Their partnership was
formed in October, 1866, each agreeing to contribute his services and one-half of the capital. It was understood that the
money of Dillenberg was then invested in mining stocks, and
could not at once be obtained. Luchs accordingly furnished
the entire capital, which was over $10,000. DIllenberg never
contributed his portion, and about two years after the partnership was formed his failure in this respect caused dissatisfaction
and complaint. It was thereupon suggested by one Myers,
who was employed by an agent of the insurance company, and
who had been called in as an accountant to examine the books

CON1ECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. LUCHS. 503
Opinion of the Court.

of the concern, that, as a means of "adjusting the dispute or
misunderstanding between, the partners," a policy of insurance
should be obtained upon the life of Dillenberg for the benefit
of Luchs, and that Dillenberg should retire from the firm
within a year afterwards. Nothing, however, was then done
upon this suggestion, but in the following year the policy in
suit was procured.
1. The first questioh presented is as to the right of Luchs to
sue upon it. It is plain from the parol evidence in the case,
that it was the intention both of Luchs and Dillenberg that the
policy should be procured for the benefit of Luchs.
The declaration, which is the application for the policy, begins with an averment that he, Luchs, is desirous of effecting
an insurance upon the life of Dillenberg, and proceeds to state
the latter's age, the condition of his health, the character of his
habits, and that he, Luchs, has an interest in the life of Dillenberg to the amount of $10,000. The declaration is signed both
by Luchs and Dillenberg, though it purports in every line to be
the separate application of Luchs. It is accompanied by questions and answers, and to the first question, as to the name and
residence of the person for whose benefit the insurance is proposed, the answer is: "Leopold Luohs, Washington, D. C."
The answers also are signed both by Luchs and Dillenberg.
The policy was issued and delivered to Dllenberg, and retained by him until after the dissolution of the partnership,
when he handed it to Luchs, stating that he gave it to him to
show that he intended to do what was right and fair with him,
and requested him. to pay the premiums on it, promising to refund the money. The first two premiums were paid by
Dillenberg, the others by Luchs.
The difficulty in the question presented arises from the
language of the policy. Omitting words not essential on this
point, it reads as follows:
"This policy witnesseth that the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, in consideration of the declarations and representations made to them in the application for this insurance, and
the sum of $125 to them in hand paid by -eopold Luchs, .

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.
And the said comdo assure the life of Levi Dillenberg. . .
to pay
.
the said assured .
pany do hereby promise
said sum insured to the said assured,his executors, administrators, or assigns, within ninety days after due notice and
proof of the death of the said Levi Dillenberg.
"It is hereby declared to be the true intent andmeaning of this
policy, and the same is accepted by the assuredupon the express
conditions that in case the saidperson whose 1ife is hereby insured
shall pass beyond the settled limits or the protection of the government of the United States, . . . this policy shall be null.
It is also understood that if the proposal, answers, and declaration made by the said Leopold Luchs, which are hereby made
part andparcel of this policy as fully as if herein recited, and
upon the faith and warranty of which this agreement is made,
shall be found in any respect untrue, this policy shall be null and
void, or in case the said assured shall not pay the said annual
premiums, . . . this policy shall cease.
"It is further agreed that this policy shall not take effect
until the premium above named shall be actually paid
during the life of the insured."
The contention of the plaintiff is that the words "the assured" in the policy apply to the person for whose benefit the
policy was effected, that is, Luchs, and not to the party whose
life was insured.
There are undoubtedly instances where this distinction
between the terms assuredand insured is observed, though we
do not find any judicial consideration of it. The application of
either term to the party for whose benefit the insurance is
effected, or to the party whose life is insured, has generally depended upon its collocation and context in the policy.
We are of opinion that, reading the policy here in connection
with the declaration and the answers of Luchs, which form a
part of it, and indicate the object of procuring it, the term assured must be held as applicable to him for whose benefit it
was effected.
The policy considered in -Etna Dife Insurance Company v.
France,91 U. S. 562, gives some support to this view. There
the policy was effected by a brother for a sister's benefit, and

CONNECTICUT ?-fUT. LIFE INS.'CO. v. LUCHS.

505

Opinion of the Court.

the term assured was held to apply to the sister, for she recovered in a suit brought in connection with her husband on
the policy. The attention of the court does not appear, however, to have been directed to that term. It may be said, also,
that there could be little doubt as to its proper application in
that case, as it was followed by the words "and her executors,
administrators, or assigns," thus limiting it to the sister. In
other respects the language is substantially identical with that
of the policy under consideration.
2. The second question presented for our determination is
whether Luchs had an insurable interest in the life of Dillenberg. Upon this we have no doubt. Dillenberg was his partner
and had not paid his promised proportion of the capital of the
concern. At the time the policy was applied for he was still in
default, and although it might have turned out that the actual
amount due upon a settlement of accounts was less than the
promised proportion, it was not a matter definitely ascertained
at the time. Besides what was thus due to him, Luchs was interested in having Dillenberg continue in the partnership. He
had such an interest, therefore, as took from the policy anything of a wagering character.
As this court said in Warnoc v. -)avis, 10: U. S. 779:
"It is not easy to define with precision what will, in all cases,
constitute an insurable interest, so as to take the contract out of
the class of wager policies. It may be stated, generally, however,
to be such an interest arising from the relations of the party obtaining the insurance, either as creditor of or surety for the assured, or from the ties of blood or marriage to him, as will justify

a reasonable expectation of advantage or benefit from the continuance of his life. It is not necessary that the expectation of
advantage or benefit should be always capable of pecuniary estimation.

.

.

.

But in all cases there must be a reasonable

ground, founded upon the relations of the parties to each other,
either pecuniary or of blood or affinity, to expect some benefit or
advantage from the continuance of the life of the assured."
Certainly Luchs had a pecuniary interest in the life of Dillenberg on two grounds: because he was his creditor and be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

cause he was his partner. The continuance of the partnership,
and, of course, a continuance of Dillenberg's life, furnished a
reasonable expectation of advantage to himself. It was in
the expectation of such advantage that the partnership was
formed, and, of course, for the like expectation, was continued.
In MJorrell v. Trenton Mutual iffe and Fire Insurance
Conmpany, 10 Cushing, 282, a policy was taken out by the plaintiff upon the life of his brother, who was about going to California, on an agreement that the latter should pay to him onefourth of his earnings for the following year. In an action on
the policy it was contended that the plaintiff had no insurable
interest upon the life of the insured, but the court, after deciding that he had such an interest from the fact that he held a
promissory note signed by the firm of which the insured was a
partner, also said that it was strongly inclined to the opinion
that the plaintiff had another interest in the life of the person
insured. "He had," said the court, "a subsisting contract
with that person, made on a valuable consideration, by which
he was to receive one quarter part of his earnings in the mines
of California for one year. Such an interest cannot, from its
nature, be valued or apportioned. It was an interest upon
which the policy attached. By the loss of his life within the
year, the person whose life was insured lost the means of earning anything more, and the plaintiff was deprived of receiving

his share of such earnings to an uncertain and indefinite
amount."
In Tenton 3futual Zife and Fire Insurance Company v.

Johnson, 4 Zabriskie's Reports, 576, a policy was taken out by
the plaintiff on the life of one Van Middlesworth for $1,000,
one-half payable to the plaintiff and the other half to Van
Middlesworth. They belonged to an association called the
INew Brunswick and California Mlining and Trading Company,
the capital stock of which consisted of forty-five shares of $600
each. The company consisted partly of shareholding members
and partly of active members, the shareholders being each required to furnish a substitute to proceed to the mines of the
company. The plaintiff owned one share, advanced $600 of
capital and procured Van Middlesworth to go out as his sub-

CONNECTICUT M1UT. LIFE INS. CO. v.LCHS.

007

Opinion of the Court.

stitute, which he did, and acted as his agent and substitute;
and the assets of the company having been divided in California he received the plaintiff's share, and afterwards died, not
having paid it over. By one of the articles of the association
all treasures and all the proceeds of the labor of each member,
and all profits, were to go into a general fund for the benefit
of the association. To the action brought on the policy it was
objected that the plaintiff had no insurable interest in the life
of the deceased. On this question the court said:
"In the present case Johnson had a direct interest in the life of
his substitute, whose earnings were to constitute a part of the
joint funds, of which he was entitled to his share, an interest fully
equivalent to the interest of a wife in the life of her husband, of
a child in that of a parent, or a sister in that of a brother. And
at Van Mliddlesworth's death, although prior to that time the company had been virtually dissolved, he had an interest in him
as his creditor to the extent of his share of the assets in his
hands."
In Bevin v. The Connecticut lJMutuaZ 1i'fe Isurance Com_vany, 23 Conn. 244, the plaintiff had obtained a policy of insurance for $1,000 on the life of one Barstow, to whom he had
advanced $350, besides articles of personal property, to enable
him to go to California and there labor for one year, on an
agreement that he would account to the plaintiff for one-half
of his gains. The court said that Barstow was the plaintiff's
debtor and partner, giving to the plaintiff an interest in the
continuance of his life, as by that means, through his skill and
efforts, the plaintiff might expect not only to get back what
he had advanced, but to acquire great gains and profits in the
enterprise. "All the books," the court added, "hold this to
be a sufficient interest to sustain a policy of insurance. As to
the value of this interest, we think it must be held to be what
the parties agreed to consider it in the policy. This was the
sum asked for by the plaintiff, and which the defendants agreed
to pay in case of death, and for which they were paid in the
premiums given by the insured. The policy must, we think,
be held to be a valued policy." And after referring to a policy

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

of insurance obtained by a sister on her brother's life, where
no question seemed to have been made as to the amount, but
only whether it was an interest which the lawwould recognize,
the court said:
"So, in every case, where a person on his own account insures
the life of a relative, if the sum named in the policy is not to be
the rule of damages, we inquire what is? The impossibility of
satisfactorily going into the question in most cases, and especially
where there is nothing to guide the inquiry, and everything is
uncertain, would lead us to hold that a policy like this is a valued
policy as most consistent with the understanding of the parties
and the principles of law."
3. The third question presented for determination relates to
alleged breaches of the warranty of the policy. It is alleged
that the policy was issued upon the faith of certain statements
and answers of the plaintiff which were untrue. These statements were, first, that the plaintiff had an interest in the life
of Dillenberg to the amount of $10,000, when, in fact, he had
no interest- in it; and, second, that the cause of the death of
one of the brothers of Dillenberg was accident, when, in fact,
he had committed suicide.
As to the alleged breach of the warranty of the interest of
the plaintiff in the life of Dillenberg there is this answer: The
statement of the plaintiff as to the amount of his interest was
necessarily conjectural. No one can affirm with absolute
certainty that he has an interest to a definite sum in the life of
another, where the interest depends upon the result of an
existing partnership or other business transactions not yet
terminated. The value of his interest in such cases will always
be more or less a matter of opinion. The statement, in that
regard, must, of necessity, be taken as a mere estimate. If,
therefore, the plaintiff had an interest in the life of Dillenberg
and his estimate was made in good faith, the declaration cannot be deemed untrue so as to constitute a breach of the
warranty. The extent of a man's interest in the life of another,
depending upon a continuing partnership or the results of business transactions not yet completed, is, in the nature of things,

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. LUCHS.

509

Opinion of the Court.

uncertain, and in such cases all that can be required is that he
had an actual interest, and that his estimate was made in good
faith, without any purpose to deceive. Bevi v. Connecticut
XJtual Life Insurance Company, cited above.
Here the plaintiff valued his interest and took out a policy
for only half of the sum estimated. He did not procure the
policy for any purpose of speculating upon the duration of the
life of Dillenberg. From the finding of the jury we must take
as true, that his representation was made in good faith upon
an honest opinion as to the value of his interest.
As to the alleged.misstatement of the cause of the death of
a brother of the deceased, it is sufficient to observe that there
is no allegation on this subject in the answers of the plaintiff,
and the point is taken simply because, in an answer to a previous application, that statement was made. Such previous
answer cannot be incorporated into the present policy. The
reference to the previous application is made for the answer to
a different inquiry.
There may be, as stated by counsel for the company, some
inconsistencies between the charges given at its request, and
those given at the request of Luchs. The latter present all the
disputed questions of fact to the jury, and if those granted at
its request are erroneous, in so far as they differ, it is not for it
to complain, as was well observed by counsel, that while the
judge held Luchs within proper limits, itself was suffered to.go
beybnd them.
Upon the whole record of the case we find no error sufficient
to justify a reversal of the judgment.
Judgment afflrmed.

