THE JESSIE WILLIAMSON, JR.
Syllabus.

assertion of any claim to the lot by any lessee, and the case is
one where, on all the facts, and in the absence of affirmative
proof by the defendant of the existence of such lease, the evidence that there was none must be held sufficient.
We do not perceive that any of the objections set up by
demurrer and repeated in the answer are tenable. The decree
of the circuit court is affirmed in all respects, except in so far as
it erroneously gives the date of July 19th, 1816, to the decree
of June 19th, 18'6, and recites erroneously the contents of said
decree; and except in so far as it may be construed as enjoining the defendant Ensminger from setting up any title to said
lot 10 as against the city of Memphis, or as quieting or confirming the pbssession of the plaintiffs as against the city of
Memphis under the said lease from said city; and except in so
far as it adjudges that the lease made by the defendants to the
plaintiff John C. Powers, and the five notes executed by him,
be delivered up and cancelled. .As to this last-named lease, the
plaintiff John C. Powers, having voluntarily entered into it,
no ground is shown for setting it aside. It was correct to
charge Esminger with the costs of both suits. The decree of
this court in the first suit imposed on the plaintiffs herein only
the costs of the appeal to this court. The costs of the present
appeal must be paid by the appellant.
So o'rdered.

THE JESSIE WILLIAMSON, JR.
STARIIN

v. THE JESSIE WILLIAMSON, JR., AND
WILLIAM H. SISE & Another.

APPEAL FROM THE cIRCUT COURT OF THE tUrITED STATES
THE SOUTHER N DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

FOR

Decided April 23d, 1883.

Admiralty-Apea-.uriZditioa.
The libellant in a suit in rem, in admiralty, against a vessel, for damages
growing out of a collision, claimed in his libel, to recover$27,000 damages.

vor. cvm-20

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Argument for Appellant.
After the attachment of the vessel in the district court, a stipulation in the
sum of $2,100, as her appraised value, was given. The libel having been
dismissed by the circuit court, on appeal, the libellant appealed to this
court: Held, that the matter in dispute did not exceed the sum or value
of $5,000, exclusive of costs, as required by ยง 3 of the act of February 16th,
1875, 18 Stat. 316, and that this court had no jurisdiction of the appeal.
A decree against the vessel for $27,000 would not establish the liability of the
claimant to respond for that amount in personam, unless he was the owner
of the vessel at the time of the collision, and that fact must appear by the
record, in order to be so far a foundation for such liability as to authorize
this court to consider the $27,000 as the value of the matter in dispute on
said appeal.

Libel in admiralty for a collision, alleging a damage to barge
and cargo of upwards of $27,000. The offending vessel was
appraised at $2,100, and a statutory stipulation for that
amount was taken. Judgment was rendered below against the
libellant, who appealed. The appellees moved to dismiss the
appeal for want of jurisdiction.
-Yr. 1. AD.Benedict for the appellant.-The case of T]ie
Enterpfrise,2 Curtis, 31', is a strong and sufficient authority
against the motion. In that case a libel was filed for wages,
and a decree rendered in the district court for more than $50.
The vessel was sold, and after paying the marshal's fees, there
remained only $13.10, which was paid into court. The claimant of the vessel insisted on his right to an appeal to the circuit
court, which was resisted by the libellant, on the ground that
the "matter in dispute" was the proceeds of the vessel, and did
not equal $50. But the circuit court, Curtis, J., held otherwise
and allowed the appeal, saying, "what is in dispute in this case
is not the vessel or even the existence of a lien thereon as a security for any wages which may be due; but it is whether any
wages are due, and, if any, what is their amount." So in this
case the "matter in dispute" is not the vessel, nor her proceeds,
nor the stipulation which "takes the place of the vessel," nor
the existence of a lien on the vessel for the damages claimed;
but it is whether any damages are due, and, if any, what is
their amount? While we have found no authority in this
court, which is as directly in point as the case of The Enterprise, yet authorities which adopt the principle and cover the

THE JESSIE WILLIAMSON, JR.
Argument for Appellant.

case are not wanting in the decisions of this court. "When
the plaintiff sues for an amount exceeding $2,000 and the ad
damnum exceeds $2,000, if by reason of any erroneous ruling
of the court below the plaintiff recovers nothing or less than
$2,000, then the sum, claimed by the plaintiff is the sum in controversy for which a writ of error will lie." Story, J., Jnapp v.
Bans, 2 How. 3. See also Ross v. Prentiss, 3 How. 771;
Wilson v. Daniel, 3 Dall. 401; The Falcon, 17 How. 19; and
Richmond v. XJilwaukee, 21 How. 391. The question of the
amount or value or'the security which the party plaintiff has
for his claim has never been considered by the court. In the
case of 2oss v. Prentiss, 3 How. 771, an effort was made by
an appellant, in order to sustain an appeal, to have the court
consider the value of land on which an execution had been
levied as being the matter in dispute. But the court refused to
do so, holding that the matter in dispute was the amount of
the execution, against which the appellant sought relief, saying,
"the only matter in controversy is the amount claimed on the
execution. The dispute is whether the property in question is
liable to be charged with it or not." So here the matter in
controversy is the libellant's claim for damages. Whether
the vessel is of value enough to pay the claim does not affect
the dispute. In the case of TWlson v. Daniel, 3 Dall. 401,
Chase, J., while saying that the demand of the plaintiff ought
not to be made the sole criterion, says: "It must be acknowledged, however, that in actions of tort or trespass, from the
nature of the suits, the damages laid in the declaration afford
the only practicable test of the value of the controversy."
This rule is subject to this exception, that if the amount of the
damages in such a case has been fixed by a judgment, the
amount of the judgment is the "matter in dispute," as far at
least as concerns an appeal by the defendant. In this case of
Wlson v. Daniel, above cited, the existence of this exception
to the rule was denied, and attention called by Ch.J. Ellsworth
to the inequality between the parties which the exception
would create. But later cases have established the existence
of the exception. Gordon v. Ogden, 3 Pet. 34. That exception, however, does not exist in this case, which comes

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

squarely within the general rule that the damages laid
are the "matter in dispute" in cases of tort or trespass. The
argument is adduced that "if the libellants had recovered
a decree for the full amount of their damages, the claimants
could only be called on to pay the $2,100, the value of their
vessel, and they could not appeal." But that this is an error is
shown by the case of The Enterprise, supra. The claimants

could appeal, because the decree in the suit in rem fixes the
right between the parties. And in the admiralty, "in a suit in
-rein,it is not usual to render a decree inpersonam, but if the
case proved shows a clear right to recover in personam, the
libellant may be permitted, after a decree in rem, to introduce
the proper allegations in personam, and proceed upon them to
a further decree against the person." Benedict's Admiralty, 2
ed. ยง 541. See Betts Practice, p. 99. The error of the brief for
appellees is in confounding the liability of the stipulators with
the matter in dispute between the principal parties. The liability of the stipulatoi's arises out of their stipulation, and, of
course, cannot be greater than the amount of the stipulation.
But that has nothing to do with the liability of the claimants
for the damages sustained by the libellant. This arises out of
the collision. And it is this which is the "matter in dispute"
between the parties, entirely irrespective of the amount of security which the libellant may have for the payment of the
damages.
X..

.HenryJ. Scudder for appellee.

JUSTICE BLA.TcHFOrm delivered the opimon of the court.
This is a suit in rem, in admiralty, to recover damages for a
collision, brought in the district court, where the libel was dismissed. The decree was affirmed by the circuit court, on appeal, and the libellant has appealed to this court. The amount
of damages claimed in the libel is $27,000. The collision
occurred on the 2d of INovember, 1875. The libel was filed on
the 5th day of the same month, and the vessel was attached,
under process, on the same day. On the 9th, Richard H.
Seaward, describing himself as master of the schooner sued,

MR.

THE JESSIE WILLIAMSON, Jn.
Opinion of the Court.,

filed a claim to her, in which he stated that he intervened, as
agent of the owners of the schooner, "for the interest of
Daniel Marcy, William H. Sise, and others, owners of said
schooner," in her, and made claim to her, and averred that he
was in possession of her when she was attached, and that "the
persons above named and others are the true and bona fide
owners" of her, and that no other person "is" her owner.
The master signed the claim as "agent," and made oath to it
"that the owners of said schooner reside in Portsmouth, N. H.,
and Kittery, Maine, and that this deponent is duly authorized
to put in this claim in behalf of the owners of the said schooner,
&c." On the 12th of November the value of the schooner was
fixed by appraisement at the sum of $2,100, and a stipulation
for value in that amount was entered into pursuant to the rules
and practice of the district court, signed "W. H. Sise & Co.,
by R. H. Seaward," and also signed by two sureties, not claimants. A stipulation for costs, entered into on behalf of the
claimants, on November 9th, pursuant to the rules and practice
of the district court, recites that a claim had been filed in the
cause "by Daniel Marcy, William H. Sise, and others, owners
of said vessel,,&c." The answer, which was sworn to December, 18th, 1875, purports to be the answer of seventeen persons
(two of whom are Daniel Marcy and William H. Sise), whom
it states to be "claimants of the schooner" and "respondents,"
and the answer speaks of the vessel as the "respondents'
schooner." The oath to the answer is made by a person who
swears that he is "agent for the schooner," "and transacts
business for her owners," and "that the owners are not, nor is
either of them, or the master thereof, within this district."
The appellees move to dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction in this court to entertain it, on the ground that the
matter in dispute does not exceed the sum or value of $5,000,
exclusive of costs, as required by ยง 3 of the act of February
16th, 1875, ch. 77, 18 Stat. 316. We have held, at this
term, on a full review of the subject, in Hilton v. Dickinson,
ante, page 165, that while we have jurisdiction of a writ of
error or appeal by a plaintiff below when he sues for as much
as or more than our jurisdiction requires and recovers nothing,

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

the actual matter in dispute in this court, as shown by the
record, and not alone the damages alleged or prayed for in the
declaration, must be looked to in determining the question of
jurisdiction. We have also held, in Elgin v. .arshall, 106 U.
S. 578, that the required valuation is limited to the matter in
dispute in the particular suit in which the jurisdiction isinvoked ; that any estimate of value as to any matter not actually
the subject of that suit must be excluded; and that there cannot be added to the value of the matter determined in that
suit any estimate in money, by reason of the probative force of
the judgment itself in some subsequent proceeding. As is remarked in the latter case:
"The value of the judgment, as an estoppel, depends upon
whether it could be used in evidence in a subsequent action between the same parties."
In the present case, although the libellant may recover
$27,000 against the vessel, because he demands that amount
against her, it is plain that he cannot recover, on the stipulation for value, which represents her, more than $2,100, and cannot recover against the sureties in the stipulation more than
that amount. Therefore, this being a suit in remn only, the
value of the vessel, represented by the stipulation, is all that is
in dispute, because that is all that the libellant can obtain or
the stipulators can lose, in this suit.
The libellant contends, however, that a decree for him for
$27,000 against the vessel would establish the liability of the
claimants for that amount. But it could not be contended that
this would be so in any case but one where the claimants were
alleged and shown to have been the owners of the vessel sued,
at the time of the collision. In the case of The Enterprise,2
Curtis, 317, the record showed that the claimant of the vessel
was an owner of her during the voyage for which the wages
sued for were claimed, and that by his answer he contested in
that character the right to wages. For these reasons it was
held that the decree in the suit in rein bound him personally,
as res judiata; that a libel in personam against him would

THE JESSIE WILLIAMSON, JP.
Opinion of the Court.

lie to execute that decree; and that the matter in dispute in
that case was not the vessel or the existence of a lien on her.
The proceeds of the sale of the vessel were $13.90, the decree
was for more than $50, and $50 was the amount necessary for
jurisdiction on an appeal. -Tnder these circumstances an appeal
was allowed.
There is no allegation, in the libel, in this case, as to who
were the owners of the vessel at the time of the collision, and
nothing is set forth therein as a foundation for any ultimate
recovery against any particular persons, as such owners, of so
much of the $27,000 claimed as may exceed the appraised
value of the vessel. Rule 15, in admiralty, provides that "in
all suits for damage by collision, the libellant may proceed
against the ship and master, or against the ship alone, or
against the master or the owner alone, in personam." This
rule, as is well settled, excludes the joining in one suit of the
vessel and her owners; but it does not prevent the introduction
into the libel of allegations as to the ownership of the vessel at
the time of the collision, with a view to a proceeding to obtain
such ultimate relief in.personam, on the basis of a recovery in
rem, as the libellant may be entitled to. Nor is there in the
record in this case anything which can be held to establish, as
against the claimants of the vessel, though they were her owners
when the claim was fied, that they were her owners at the
time of the collision, and so in a position to be liable to respond
inpersonanz for the damages suffered by the libellant, in a
proper proceeding in per'onam.
If the libellant had recovered more than $5,000 in this case,
in the circuit court, against the vessel, the claimants could not
have appealed to this court, because for the reasons above set
forth, the amount in dispute would have been only $2,100, on
the record as it stands. As we held in Hfilton v. Dickinson,
the statute does not give to the plaintiff an advantage over the
defendant, under the same circumstances.
27e afgeal is dismissedfor want of jurisdction.

