OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

KIRKBRIDE v. LAFAYETTE COUNTY, Missouri.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Decided April 2d, 1883.

.Atunicipal Corporations.
Under an act of the legislature of Missouri, county courts of counties were authorized to subscribe, in behalf of townships in their respective counties, to
the capital stock of any railroad company within that State "building or
promising to build a railroad into, through, or near such township, and to
issue bonds in the name of the county in payment; of such subscription.
There was a vote of a township in favor of issuing bonds in aid of a particular railroad company. The subscription was made and the bonds issued,
reciting that they were authorized by a vote of the people, and were issued
under and pursuant to an order of the county court by authority of the act.
When the vote was taken and the bonds issued, the company did not propose to build a road into or through the township, but it was proposing to
build one from a point nine miles distant from the township to a farther
distance. Interest on the bonds was paid for three years. In a suit on
coupons of the bonds by a bona fide holder for value: Held, That the
courts should acquiesce in the determination by the qualified voters and
the local authorities that the proposed road was near the township, and
hold that there was legislative authority for issuing the bonds.

Suit to recover on interest coupons of bonds issued by the
county in payment of a subscription to the capital stock of the
St. Louis & St. Joseph Railroad Company. The answer denied the authority of the county to make the subscription.
The court, a jury being waived, made the following special
findings :
I. The plaintiff's action is on coupons of bonds amounting to
five thousand seven hundred dollars. These bonds were issued
and delivered by the county court of the defendant to the St.
Louis & St. Joseph Railroad Company, in the month of November, 1868 ; said bonds are dated November 2d, 1868, and were
delivered about that date, and are of the following tenor, to wit:
[The finding then recited the bond.]-II. On the 5th of May,
1868, a petition of 25 tax-payers of Lexington township, in said
county, was filed in said county court, praying said court to order

KIRKBRIDE v. LAFAYETTE CO.
Statement of Facts.
an election of the qualified voters of said township for the purpose of taking the sense of the qualified voters on subscribing by
said township $75,000.00 to the capital stock of the St. Louis &
St. Joseph Railroad Company, and that such election was ordered
and held, and resulted by the proper vote in favor of such subscription.-II. That on 7th July, 1868, said county court,- in
pursuance of such election, did subscribe the sum of 875,000.00
for and on behalf of. the township of Lexington to the capital
stock of said St. Louis & St. Joseph Railroad Company.-IV.
That said bonds purport on their face to have been issued by authority of an act entitled "An Act to facilitate the construction
of railroads in the State of Missouri," approved March 23d, 1868.
-V. That plaintiff is a citizen of the State of Pennsylvania, and
a purchaser for value before maturity of the bonds and coupons
in question, without notice or knowledge of any irregularity in
the subscription or issue of said bonds, except as may appear
upon their face, and such as he was bound in law to take notice
of, and is now the owner and bearer of the same, and that the
defendant for three years .paid the interest on these bonds as it
fell due.-VI. The said St. Louis & St. Joseph Railroad Company
was organized and incorporated on the 8th day of January, 1868,
by filing articles of association on that date with the secretary of
State, in pursuance of the general statutes of Missouri, title 24,
of private corporations, chap. 63, of railroad companies, 1865,
whereby they were authorized to construct and operate a railroad
from Richmond, in Ray county, by the way of Plattsburg, to St.
Joseph, in Buchanan county, the length of thd road limited to
64 miles, with a capital stock of 82,000,000, each share 8100, 13
directors.-VII. That the St. Louis & St. Joseph Railroad Company, southern division, was organized and incorporated on the
10th day of August, 1868, by articles of association filed with the
secretary of state on that date, in pursuance of the general statutes
of Missouri last aforesaid, whereby it was authorized to construct
and operate a railroad "from Richmond, in Ray county, to a
point on the bank of the Missouri river, opposite to the city of'
Lexington ;" that the length of this road is intended to be about
nine miles, and that said St. Louis & St. Joseph Railroad Company, southern division, did construct its said road to within 500,yards of the north bank of the Missouri river, in Ray county,
opposite to said city of Lexington. The company constructing
VoL. cv=-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.
said road had a capital stock of 200,000 dollars.-VIII. That the
Missouri river is a navigable stream, and at that point is 1,500 yards
in width, dividing said county of Ray from Lexington township, in
Lafayette county.-IX. That said railroad companies, or either
of them, have never established a depot, either freight or passenger, within the corporate limits of said city of Lexington nor
within said Lexington township, but that passengers and freight
are deposited on the north side of said river, in Ray county, at the
depot.-X. That Lafayette county and Lexington township and
the city of Lexington are located on the south side of the Missouri river.-XI. That Richmond, in Ray county, is nine miles
from said Lexington township, in Lafayette county ; that there
is a ferry operated by a company in the city of Lexington,
separate and apart from the railroad, for the purpose of accommodating the public travel and freight going north and south,
crossing the river at that point, and also an omnibus company,
separate and apart from the railroad or ferry company, to transport passengers to and from the said railroad depot across said
ferry, and for all other purposes of general travel ; and that
tickets for passengers on said railroad company are sold at an
office in said city of Lexington.
Jfr. J B. Ifenderson, for plaintiff in error.
.fr. Alexander Graves and .Mr.William Young for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action upon sundry coupons of bonds issued in
November, 1868, and March, 1869, by the County Court of
Lafayette County, Missouri, in the name of that county, and in
payment of a subscription by it made, in behalf of Lexington

township, in that county, to the capital stock of the St. Louis
and St. Joseph Railroad Company, a corporation created under
the laws of that State. The bonds recite that they were
authorized by a vote of the people, and also that they were
issued "under and pursuant to an order of the County Court
of Lafayette County, by authority of an act of the general assembly of the State of Missouri, approved March 23d, 1868,

KIRKBRIDE v. LAFAYETTE COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

entitled ' An Act to facilitate the construction of railroads in
the State of Missouri. '"
The special finding of facts presents a single question, viz.,
whether there was legislative authority for this issue of bonds.
Its decision depends upon the construction to be given to that
part of the before-mentioned act which invests county courts in
Missouri with power to subscribe, in behalf of townships in
their respective counties, to the capital stock of any railroad
company within the State, "building or proposing to build a
railroad into, through, or near such townships," &c."
When these bonds were voted by the township, as well as
when they were issued, the St. Louis & St. Joseph Railroad
Company did not propose to build a road into or through Lexington township, but it was proposing to build a road which
its charter authorized it to construct and operate, to wit, from
Richmond, in Ray county, by the way of Plattsburg, to St.
Joseph, in Buchanan county. Richmond is nine miles distant
The contention of the defendant
from Lexington township.
so
far
away was not, within the proa
road
in error is that
the
township.
visions of the statute, near to
What
The word "near"1 is relative in its signification.
would be near in one locality would not be in another. Each
case must be governed by its special circumstances. The main
inquiry is whether a railroad, when constructed, would be near
enough to contribute to the convenience or advance the business interests of the particular township involved. It cannot
be said, as matter of law, that this road was not near enough
to Lexington township to bring about such results. That was
a question which the people of that township and the county
court of the county were qualified and, within reasonable
Their action in
limits, authorized to settle for themselves.
favor of a subscription was supplemented by payment of interest for three years. Under these circumstances, as between
the township and a bona jFde holder for value, as the plaintiff
is conceded to be, the courts should acquiesce in the determination by the qualified voters and the local authorities, that the
road in question was near to Lexington township. If there
was error in this determination, it is not so plain as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

justify the courts in disturbing the practical construction put
upon the statute, at the time the bonds were voted and issued,
by those immediately interested in executing its provisions.
'an HZosteup v. Xadison, 1 Wall. 291; .Jfeyer v. .Iluscatine,
1 Wall. 384.
.Te judgment is reversed, 'with directions to enter judgment
for plaintif.

ST. PAUL & CHICAGO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
McLEAN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Decided April 2d, 1883.

Removal of Causes.
Where, upon the removal of a cause from a State court, the copy of the record
is not filed within the time fixed by statute, it is within the legal discretion
of the federal court to remand the cause, and the order remanding it for
that reason should not be disturbed unless it clearly appears that the discretion with which the court is invested has been improperly exercised.
If, upon the first removal, the federal court declines to proceed and remands
the cause because of the failure to file the copy of the record within due
time, the same partyis not entitled, under existing laws, to file in the State
court a second petition for removal upon the same ground.

This action was brought in the Court of Common Pleas for
the city and county of New York by Samuel McLean, a
citizen of that State, against the St. Paul and Chicago IRailway Company, a corporation of the State of Minnesota.
After answer, the action, upon the petition of the defendant,
accompanied by a proper bond, was removed for trial into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York. The sole ground of removal was that the case
presented a controversy between citizens of different States.
The removal was had before the term at which the cause
could have been first tried in the State court. The first day
of the next session of the federal court succeeding the removal

