SCARBOROUGH v. PARGOUD.
Opinion of the Court.

This is a final judgment in the action and, if the case is
otherwise within our jurisdiction; subject to review here on a
writ of error. Upon such a writ the question of the right to
maintain the action on which the case was adjudged below, if
presented by the record, may be re-examined here. This being so, a writ of mandamus cannot issue. It has been often
held that mandamus cannot be used to perform the office of a
writ of error. Exjarte .Hoard,105 U. S. 578; Exjparte .Loring, 94 U. S. 418.
In Ex parte Raibvay Company, 103 U. S. 794, it was expressly decided that a writ of mandamus could not be used to
bring up for review a judgment of the circuit court on a plea
to the jurisdiction. That is practically what is asked in this
case.
The writ is denied.

SCARBOROUGH v. PARGOUD.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE

STATE OF LOUISIANA.

Decided May 7th, 1883.

L5imitations.

No judgment or decree of a State court can be reviewed in this court unless
the writ of error is filed in the court which rendered the judgment within
two years from the entry of the judgment.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIF W

ITE delivered the opinion ofthe court.

The final decree in this case was rendered on the 13th of
July, 1878, and while the writ of error was allowed by the
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, and a bond
approved and citation signed on the 5th of July, 1880, the writ
of error was not actually issued until the 14th, and the copy
was not lodged in the clerk's office until the 16th of that
month.
No judgment or decree of a State court can be reviewed
in this court unless the writ of error is brought within two
years after the entry of the judgment. Rev. Stats. ยง 1008;

OCTOBER TERMI,

1882.

Statement of Facts.

Cummings v. Jones, 104 U. S. 419. In Brooks v. lTorris, 11
How. 204, it was decided, Chief Justice Taney speaking for
the court, that "the writ of error is not brought, in the legal
meaning of the term, until it is filed in the court which rendered the judgment. It is the filing of the writ that removes
the record from the inferior to the appellate court, and the
period of limitation prescribed by the act of Congress must
be calculated accordingly." This case is cited with approval
in -Yussinca v. Cavazos, 6 Wall. 355.
It follows that the writ of error in this case was not brought
within the time limited by law, and we have consequently no
jurisdiction. For that reason
Thie writ is dismissed.

LOUISIANA ex rel. NEW ORLEANS GAS LIGHT COMPANY v. CITY COUNCIL OF NEW ORLEANS &
Another.
IN ERROR TO THE

SUPRE ME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

ConstitutionalLaw-Jurisdiction.
Where a party seeks a writ of mandamus from a State court to compel a city
government of which he is a creditor to apply to the payment of his debt
the proceeds of a proposed sale of city property, and to exhaust its powers of taxation, and continue to do so until the relator's debt is paid, and
the State court denies the prayer as to the application of the proceeds of
sale of the property, on the ground that the State laws require it to be applied to the retirement of other debts of the city, and grants the writ as to
the residue of the prayer, no federal question arises.

Petition to the judge of the Fourth District Court of the
Parish of Orleans in Louisiana, setting forth that the petitioners are judgment creditors of the city of New Orleans; that
the city government has power to levy taxes to an amount
named in the petition; that it is about to part with valuable privileges for a large sum of money; and praying that
the city government may be required to include in its next

