ILLINOIS CENTRAL R.R. CO. v. ILLINOIS.

541

Counsel for Parties.

has the right to submit to the courts the question whether rates
prescribed by any subsequent act of the legislature will give
that reasonable compensation which the State agreed, in the
act of 1852, might be exacted by the company under by-laws
established by its board of directors.
The act of 1852 does not, I think, supersede the provisions of
the general law of 1849 upon the subject of rates. But since
the company (if we look alone to the act of 1852) has failed to
show that the rates fixed in the act of 1871 are unreasonable,
and since-if the thirty-second sectionof the act of 1849 is still
in force-it does not appear that those rates would reduce the
company's'profits below the amount to which, by that section,
they could be restricted by subsequent legislation, I concur in
affirming the judgment.
FIELD, J.-I concur in the judgment in this case solely on
the ground that no proof was made that the rate prescribed by
the legislature was unreasonable. Under previous decisions of
the court the legislative rate is to be taken as presumptively
reasonable.
I do not give any weight to -Mrunn v. Illinois. My objections to the decision in that case were expressed at the time it
was rendered, and they have been strengthened by subsequent
reflection. Besides, that case does not relate to corporations
or to common carriers.
M . JUSTICE BLATOHFORD did not sit in this case.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. THE
PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

.Y. John A. Campbell and Xr2. John ff7. Jewett for plaintiff
in error.

.Xh. James .JcCartney, Attorney-General of Illinois, -r.

OCTOBER TERM, 188g.
Opinion of the Court.

James -

-dsall, and -Y. John B. HMawley for defendant in

error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The case follows in all respects R1uggles v. Illinois, ante.
This case, like that of Ruggles v. Illinois,just decided, presents the question whether the State of Illinois has entered
into a contract with a railroad corporation not to exercise the
legislative power to regulate charges for the carriage of persons and property upon the railroad of the corporation. It is
not necessary in this case, any more than it was in the other,
to inquire whether the power of legislative regulation, in this
particular, is one that can be bargained away, because here, as
there, we are of opinion that no such thing was intended. The
provision of the charter of the Illinois Central Railroad Company relied on, as showing a contract, is almost identical with
that of the Central Military Tract Company considered in the
IRuggles case, and in the following words:
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

"SEc. 8. The said company shall have power to make, ordain,
and establish all such by-laws, rules and regulations as may be
deemed expedient and necessary to fulfil the purposes and carry into
effect the provisions of this act, and for the well ordering, regulating, and securing the affairs, business, and interests of the company; Provided,That the same be not repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States or of this State, or repugnant
to this act. The board of directors shall have power to establish
such rates of toll for the conveyance of persons and property upon
the same as they shall from time to time by their by-laws direct
and determine, and to levy and collect the same for the use of
said company. The transportation of persons and property, the
width of track, the construction of wheels, the form and size of
cars, the weight of loads, and the other matters and things respecting the use of said road and the conveyance of passengers
and property, shall be in conformity to such rules and regulations
as said board of directors. shall from time to time determine.
Nothing in this act contained shall authorize said corporation to
make a location of their track within any city without the consent of common council of said city."

H1AWLEY v. FAIRBANKS.
Syllabus.

What was said in the other case as to the construction of
section six of that charter is applicable to this, and, referring
to the opinion in that case for the reasons,
We afrm thisjudgment.
FIELD, J.-I concur in the judgment in this case for the
reason expressed for my concurrence in the decision of .Neal
ihgges v. Yte People of the &ate of Illinois.

tLAN, J.-For the reasons stated in my dissenting opinion
in Ruggles v. People of Illnoi8,I dissent from the opinion of
the court, but concur in affirming the judgment.
iR. JUSTICE BL

cToHFORD took no part in the decision of this

case.

HAWLEY v. FAIRBANKS and Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE "UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Decided May 7th, 1883.
.Appea?--Conflictof Law-Injunction-Jfurisdition--andamus-unicipaI
Bonds-Municipal Corporations-Stautes.
An act of the State of Illinois authorizing subscriptions by municipalities to
the stock of a railroad company required the town clerks to transmit to
county clerks transcripts of votes authorizing subscriptions, and the amount
voted and the rate of interest to be paid, and after issue of bonds, certificates of the amount of bonds issued, the rate of interest thereon, and the
number of each bond. It also required the county clerk, after the execution and delivery of the bonds, to annually compute and assess upon the
township enough to pay the accruing interest and cost of collection, and a
fund for redemption. A subsequent statute authorized holders of such
bonds to register them with the State auditor of public accounts, and made
it the duty of the auditor to estimate the amount of assessment necessary
to meet the interest, &c., and to inform the county clerk: Held,
That the object of each act was to provide a mode for information to reach the
county clerk as to the amount of money hecessary to be raised for these
purposes, and that certified copies of judgments recovered in the Circuit
Court of the United States by such bondholders upon their bonds lodged
with the county clerk, had the same force and effect as information derived

