OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Statement of Facts.

HAMPTON, Administrator, & Others v. PHIPPS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
Decided April 16th, 1883.

Equity-footgage-ubrogation-Surety.
1. When one of two sureties gives a mortgage of his real estate to his co-surety
to protect him against loss by reason of having become security for the
principal, a creditor of the principal is not entitled to be subrogated in
equity in place of the co-surety, and enjoy the benefit of the mortgage.
2. The distinction in principle between the rights of creditors of the principal
debtor in the security where the debtor furnishes it to his sureties, and
their rights where such security is furnished by one co-surety to the
other, examined and explained.
3. When each of two co-sureties gives security to the other, to protect him
against liability on account of the principal beyond a fixed sum, no
right to resort to the security exists, until obligations on the part of the
principal have been met by the surety beyond the sum named.

Bill in equity by a creditor to obtain the benefit of securities
held by sureties of the principal debtor.
The appellee, who was complainant below, was the holder,
and filed his bill in equity, on behalf of himself and the other
holders of bonds, executed and delivered by Theodore D. Wagner and William L. Trenholm, to the amount of $710,000, and
paid to creditors in settlement of the liabilities of two insolvent
firms, in which they were two of the copartners. These bonds
were dated January 1st, 1868. The payment of the principal
and interest of each of these bonds was guaranteed, by writing
indorsed thereon, by George A. Trenholn and James T. Welsman, who were sureties merely. These sureties entered into a
written agreement each with the other, dated May 3d, 1869,
in which it was recited that, in becoming parties to said guaranty, they had agreed between themselves that the said George
A. Trenholm should be liable for the sum of $400,000, and
the said Jas. T. Welsman for the sum of $310,000, of the aggregate amount of the bonds, and no more, and that each would
be respectively liable to the other for the full discharge of the
said sum and proportion by them respectively undertaken, and

HAMPTON v. PHIPPS.
Argument for Appellee.

that each would save and keep harmless and indemnify the
other from all claim, by reason of the said guaranty, beyond
the amount or proportion respectively assumed, as stated; and
it was thereby further agreed that, at any time when either of
them should so require, each should, by mortgage of real estate,
secure to the other more perfect indemnity, because of the said
guaranty. Thereupon, and on the same date, each executed to
the other a mortgage upon real estate of which they were
respectively the owners, the condition of which was that the
mortgagor should perform on his part the said agreement of
that date. The guarantors, as well as the principal obligors,
had become insolvent before the bill was filed.
It also appeared that, of the sum of $573,300 due on account of
outstanding bonds, George A. Trenholm, one of the guarantors,
had paid $108,454, leaving still due from his estate to make
good the proportion assumed by him, $214,532; and that the
proportion for which the estate of James T. Welsman, the other
guarantor, was liable, was $250,314, of which nothing had been
paid. The appellees claimed that the mortgages interchanged
between the guarantors inured to their benefit as securities for
the payment of the principal debt, and prayed for a foreclosure
and sale for that purpose.
This was resisted by the appellants, one of whom, fHampton's
administrator, as a judgment creditor of George A. Trenholm
and James T. Welsman, claimed a lien on the mortgaged premises; the others, executrixes of James Welsman, deceased,
being subsequent mortgagees of the same property.
A decree passed in favor of the complainants, according to
the prayer of the bill, from which appeal was taken.
.IXr. Theodore G. Barker and -Mr. TV G. De Sausaure for
appellants.
Xr. James Lowndes for appellee.-I. All securities given
to a surety, whether in terms to pay the debt for which he is
surety, or to indemnify and save him harmless from any harm
or loss by reason of his'suretyship, inure to the benefit of the
creditor, who is entitled to apply the same in satisfaction of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Argument for Appellee.

debt. Xaure v. Harrisn,1 Eq. Cas. Ab. 93, is the leading case
on this proposition. In this case it was decided that "a bond
creditor shall in this court, have the benefit of all counter-bonds
or collateral security given by the principal to the surety. This
was followed in Wight v. Mlorley, 11 Ves. 12. In Mtoses v.
-Murgatoyd, 1 Johnson's Ch. 119, where an assignment
had been made as a collateral security, by the maker of
notes to secure his indorser, Chancellor Kent held that the
holders of the notes were entitled to the benefit of this collateral
security given by this principal debtor to his surety. So in
Phillipsv. Thompson, 2 Johnson's Oh. 418, it was held that a
holder of a note is entitled to the benefit of any collateral security given by the maker to the indorser for his indemnity.
Hayes v. Ward, 4 Johnson's Oh. 123. In Haggartyv. Pitman,
1 Paige, 298, the chancellor held that where a debtor makes an
assignment to his surety for his indemnity, the creditor has an
equitable claim upon the fund for the payment of his debt, and
the surety has no right to divert it to any other object. Heath
v. Hand, 1 Paige, 329; Ilopewell v. Bank of Cumberland, 10
Leigh, 206. The case of Curtis v. Tyler, 9 Paige, 432, is very
strong. The chancellor held that suit well brought, because
where a surety, or a person standing in the situation of a surety,
for the payment of a debt, receives a security for his indemnity
and to discharge such indebtedness, the principal creditor is in
equity entitled to the full benefit of that security. See also
Fail v. Foster,4 Comstock (N. Y.) 312; 1 Jones on Mortgages,
ยง 387; Hand v. Savannah, &c.,Railroad Company, 12 So. Ca.
314; Young v. MAfontgomery, &c., RailroadCompany, 2Woodls,
606; .Aorth Carolina Railroad Company v. -)rew, 3 Woods,
691.--IL The rule applies to all securities by whomsoever given
to the surety to indemnify him; and the security given by one
co-surety to secure and save harmless his co-surety, comes within
the rule, and the creditor is entitled to the benefit of the same.
-III. The creditor has the right to proceed directly on the
security. Hopewell v. CumberlandBank, 10 Leigh, 206; Curtis
v. Tyler, sura; Young v. -lontgomery,&c.,RailroadCompany,
suffra; Re Jaycox & Green, 8 Nat. Bank. Reg. 241.

HAMPTON v. PHIPPS.
Opinion of the Court.

MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
facts in the above language, he continued:
the
After reciting
on
which the court below proceeded seems to
The ground
have been that the mortgages given by the co-sureties, each to
the other, were in equity securities for the payment of the
principal debt, which inured to the benefit of the creditors
upon the principle of subrogation.
The application of the principle of subrogation in favor of
creditors and of sureties, has undoubtedly been frequent in the
courts of equity in England and the United States, and is an
ancient and familiar head of their jurisdiction.
It was distinctly stated, as to creditors, in the early case of
Z faure v. Harrison, 1 Eq. Ca. Abr. 93, where the whole report
is as follows:
MR.

JUSTICE

"A bond creditor shall, in this court, have the benefit of all
counter-bonds or collateral security given by the principal to the
surety; as if A owes B money, and he and C are bound for it, A
gives C a mortgage or bond to indemnify him, B shall have the
benefit of it to recover his debt."
And the converse of the rule was stated by Sir Wim. Grant,
in Wright v. .Aforley, 11 Vesey, 12, where he said:
"I conceive that as the creditor is entitled to the benefit of all
the securities the principal debtor has given to his surety, the
surety has full as good an equity to the benefit of all the securities the principal gives to the creditor."
And it applies equally between sureties, so that securities
placed by the principal in the hands of one, to operate as an
indemnity by payment of the debt, shall inure to the benefit
of all.
Many sufficient maxims of the law conspire to justify the
rule. To avoid circuity and multiplicity of actions; to prevent
the exercise of one's right from interfering with the rights of
others; to treat that as, done which ought to be done; to require that the burden shall be borne by him for whose advantage it has been assumed; and to secure equality among those

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

equally obliged and benefited, are perhaps not all the familiar
adages which may legitimately be assigned in support of it. It
is, in fact, a natural and necessary equity which flows from the
relation of the parties, and though not the result of contract, is
nevertheless the execution of their intentions. For, when a
debtor, who has given personal guaranties for the performance
of his obligation, has further secured it by a pledge in the
hands of his creditor, or an indemnity in those of his surety, it
is conformable to the presumed intent of all the parties to the
arrangoement, that the fund so appropriated shall be administered as a trust for all the purposes, which a payment of the
debt will accomplish; and a court of equity accordingly will

give to it this effect. All this, it is to be observed, as the rule
verbally requires, presupposes that the fund specifically pledged
and sought to be primarily applied, is the property of the
debtor, primarily liable for the payment of the debt; and it is
because it is so, that equity impresses upon it the trust, which
requires that it shall be appropriated to the satisfaction -of the
creditor, the exoneration of the surety, and the discharge of
the debtor. The implication is, that a pledge made expressly
to one is in trust for another, because the relation between the
parties is such that that construction of the transaction best
effectuates the express purpose for which it was made.
It follows that the present case cannot be brought within
either the terms or the reason of the rule; for, as the property,
in respect to which the creditors assert a lien, was not the
property of the principal debtor, and has never been expressly
pledged to payment of the debt, so no equitable construction
can convert it by implication into a security for the creditor.
It is urged that the logic of the rule would extend it so as to
cover the case of all securities held by sureties for purposes of
indemnity of whatsoever character and by whomsoever given.
But this suggestion is founded on a misconception of the scope
of the rule and the rational grounds on which it is established.
Of course, if an express trust is created, no matter by whom,
nor of what, for the payment of the debt, equity will enforce
it, according to its terms, for the benefit of the creditor, as a
cestui que trust; but the question concerns the creation of a

HAMPTON v. PHIPPS.
Opinion of the Court.

trust, by operation of law, in favor of a creditor, in a case
where there was no duty owing to him, and no intention of
bounty. A stranger might well choose to bestow upon a surety
a benefit and a preference, from considerations purely personal,
in order to make good to him exclusively any loss to which he
might be subjected in consequence of his suretyship for another.
In such a case, neither co-surety nor creditor could, upon any
ground of privity in interest, claim to share in the benefit of
such a benevolence.
There may be, indeed, cases in which it would not be inequitable for the debtor himself to make specific pledges of his
own property, limited to the personal indemnity of a single
surety, without benefit of participation or subrogation; as,
when the liability of the surety was contingent upon conditions
not common to his co-sureties, and which may never become
absolute.
opewell v. Cumberland Bank, 10 Leigh, 206.
We are referred by counsel to the case of Curtis v. Tyler, 9
Paige, 432, as an instance in which the rule'has been extended
to securities in the hands of a surety not derived from the
principal debtor. But the fact in that case is otherwise. The
question was as to the right of an assignee of a mortgage to
the benefit of the guaranty of one Allen to make good any
deficiency in the mortgaged property to pay the mortgage
debt. This bond had been given to one Murray, a prior holder
of the mortgage, who had assigned it to the complainant. The
court say, in the opinion, p. 436:
"In the case under consideration, Murray had assigned the bond
and mortgage given to him, and had guaranteed the payment
thereof to the assignee. He, therefore, stood in the situation of
a surety for the mortgagor, when the latter procured the bond of
Allen as a collateral security, or as a guaranty of the payment of
his original bond and mortgage. The present holders are, therefore, in equity entitled to the benefit of this collateral bond, in
the same manner and to the same extent as if it had been given
to Murray before he assigned his bond and mortgage, and had
been expressly assigned by him to Beers, and by Beers to the
complainants."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

It thus distinctly appears that the bond of Allen, which was
the collateral security in controversy, was procured by and derived from the original mortgagor, the principal debtor. We
have been referred to no case which forms an exception to the
rule as we have stated it.
But the claim of the complainants fails for another reason.
The right of subrogation, on which they rest it, is merely a
right to be substituted in place of each of the co-sureties in respect to the other, in order to enforce the mortgages given by
them respectively according to their terms. But the conditions
of those mortgages have not been broken, and the very fact,
which is supposed to confer the right upon the creditor to interpose-the insolvency of the sureties-has rendered it impossible for either to fasten upon the other a breach of the condition of his mortgage. As neither can pay his own proportion
of the liability they agreed to divide, neither can claim indemnity against the other for an over-payment. It is entirely clear,
therefore, that neither of the sureties could be, under the circumstances as they appear, entitled, as mortgagee, to foreclose
the mortgage against the other. The condition of each mortgage was, that the mortgagor would perform his part of the
agreement and indemnify the mortgagee against the consequences of a failure to do so. Unless one of them had been
compelled to pay, and had in fact paid, an excess beyond his
agreed share of the debt, there could have been no breach of
the conditions of the mortgage, and consequently no right to a
foreclosure and sale of the mortgaged premises. And the
amount which the mortgagor could be required to pay, as a
condition of redeeming the mortgaged premises, in case of foreclosure, would be, not the amount which the mortgagee, as between himself and the common creditor, was bound to pay on
account of the debt, but the amount which, as between himself
and his co-surety, the mortgagor, he had paid beyond the proportion which, by the terms of the agreement between them,
was the limit of his liability. The mortgages were not created
for the security of the principal debt, but as security for a debt
possibly to arise from one surety to the other. As to which of
them has there been as yet any default? Plainly none as to

BASKET v. HASSELL.
Statement of Facts.

either. And yet the complainants assert the right to foreclose
them both-a claim that is self-contradictory, for, by the very
nature of the arrangement, it is impossible that there should be
a default as to both. The fact that one mortgagor had failed
to perform his part of the agreement could only be on the supposition that the other had not only fully performed it on his
part, but had paid that excess against which his co-surety had
agreed to indemnify him. There is, therefore, no right to the
subrogation insisted on, because there is nothing to which it
can apply.
It results, therefore, that the complainants were not entitled
to participate in the benefit of the mortgages in question, nor
to share in the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged premises;
but that the same should have been applied to the payment of
the other judgment and mortgage liens upon the premises, in
the order of their priority. The decree of -may29th, 1879,
therefore, being the one from which the appeal was taken, is
reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to take such
further proceedings therein, not inconsistent with this opinion,
as justice and equity require.
-Decreereversed.

BASKET v. HASSELL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE uwrrrxi STATES FoR
THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Decided April 16th, 1883.

Probate-Statutes-Will.
The attempted transfer of a certificate of deposit on the donor's death-bed, reported in .Basketv. Hassell, 107 U. S. 602, cannot be enforced here as a will
of personalty, oecause such will does not take effect under the statutes of
Tennessee until probate.

Motion for a rehearing. The case was decided at October
term, 1882, and is reported 107 U. S. 602.

