DIS. OF COLUMBIA v. WAStINGTON MARKET CO. 243
Syllabus.

establishing his rights, ascertaining the amount due to him, and
ordering a sale of the property and the payment to Norton of
the surplus after discharging the mortgage debt. Here the bill
was filed by Norton to set aside the proceedings for foreclosure
and obtain a conveyance of the mortgaged property. The
court refused to set aside -the proceedings or to order a conveyance, but did order the sale to go on, and that the proceeds,
after the mortgage was satisfied, be paid to Norton. It adjudged the case on the merits in favor of Frellsen as against
Norton, and in favor of Norton as against Hood. The bill was
not dismissed in form because it asked relief both as against
Frellsen and Hood, and relief was granted as against Hood.
It was in legal effect dismissed as to Frelisen when the decree
was entered in his favor on all the questions in which he was
interested.
Mhe writ of rnandamus asked for is granted, but without

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA ,o. WASHINGTON MARKET

COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Decided April 9th, 1883.

Charitable Gift--Conract-Cororation
-Dislrict of Columba-Midence.
In May, 1870, Congress authorized the Washington Market Company to construct a market building on a tract in Washington between Pennsylvania and Louisiana avenues and B street, and between Seventh and
Ninth streets, then belonging to the United States, and to occupy the
same for a term of 99 years, paying a rental therefor to the city of
Washington of $25,000 a year. Buildings were to be constructed thereon
by the company, within a period named and in accordance with specified
plans. In 1871, some changes were made in the plans, and in March,
1873, no building having been erected, Congress authorized the governor
and ooard of public works of the District of Columbia (the successor of
the city), to erect a building for District offices and to "make arrangements to secure sufficient land fronting on Pennsylvania avenue between
Seventh and Ninth streets." Under this authority the market company
conveyed to the District a part of the tract described in the act of 1870;

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.
the District assumed the obligations of the company respecting that part,
and released it on the payment of an agreed sum from liability for back
rents, and from the obligation to pay in future any other rental than
$7,500 a year; and the company paid the back rents and bound itself to
pay the newly agreed rental for the future; and has paid rent since then
at the rate of $7,500 per annum. On suit by the District to recover at
the rate of $25,000, Hedd,
1. That the act of 1873 fully empowered the District and the company to make
the new agreement, transferring a part of the land to the District and
diminishing the rent for the remainder.
2. That there was nothing in the act of 1870 which established an irrevocable
charitable trust for the benefit of the poor of Washington.
3. That in this case the debates on the passage of the act are not to be accepted as evidence of the meaning of the clause in controversy.

Action to recover $53,847.23, with interest, alleged to be due
from the Washington Market Company, by virtue of the terms
of its charter, to the city of Washington, of which the plaintiff
in error was the legal successor.
The act of Congress to incorporate the Washington Market
Company (16 Stat. 124) took effect May 20th, 1870. By the
2d section, it was enacted that the company
"Is hereby authorized and empowered to locate and construct
a suitable building or buildings upon the following described
grounds, namely, commencing at the intersection of the centre
line of B street north with the west line of Seventh street west,
running thence north along the west side of Seventh street to the
southerly side of Pennsylvania avenue; thence westerly along the

southerly side of Pennsylvania avenue to the southerly side of
Louisiana avenue; thence westerly along the southerly side of
Louisiana avenue to the east side of Ninth street west; thence
along the east line of Ninth street to the centre line of B street ;
thence along the centre line of B street to the place of beginning;
and to use and occupy the same by the erection of a suitable

building or buildings for a public market house, including the
necessary stalls and sheds, and also for stores, public halls, and
such other purposes as may be determined by said company, not
inconsistent with its use as a public market. The buildings herein designated to be used for the purposes of a market shall be
used for no other purpose inconsistent therewith, but the same
shall remain a public market as hereinbefore described."

DIS. OF COLUMBIA v. VASHINGTON MARKET CO. 245
Statement of Facts.
Provision was made, when the building was ready for occupancy, for letting out parts of the same as stalls and stands for
market purposes, the rents for which were to belong to the
Market Company. The buildings were to be constructed according to plans set forth in a schedule made part of the act.
The company was required to purchase and pay for all buildings and fixtures then on the premises belonging to individuals,
at prices to be fixed, if not agreed on; and to completely finish
its structures and improvements within two years and sixty
days after obtaining possession of the premises described. The
12th, 13th, and 14th sections of the act were as follows:
"SEc. 12. And he it further enacted, That the privileges conferred by this act shall be enjoyed by said company for the term
of ninety-nine years, unless sooner terminated for a non-compliance or abuse of the conditions herein imposed upon said company, which may be done by suit in the name of the United
States, to recover possession of said property. At the end of
said period of ninety-nine years, the said lands, with all the erections and improvements thereon, shall revert to the United States,
unless Congress shall by law extend the period of occupation
thereof by said company: -Provided,That if the corporation of
the city of Washington shall, after a period oi thirty years from
the approval of this act, by a vote of the councils thereof express
a desire to possess itself of the said market buildings and grounds,
Congress may authorize the corporate authorities to take possession of the same upon payment to the said Market-House Company of a sum of money equal to a fair and just valuation of the
buildings and improvements then standing on said, grounds, and
the mode and manner of ascertaining such valuation shall be determined by Congress.
"S:Ec. 13. And be it further enacted, That the real estate herein
described is hereby vested in the said corporation for and during
the said term of ninety-nine years, or until a forfeiture of its
rights and privileges by a breach of the conditions herein imposed
on said company, and said estate shall be taken and considered as
,a determinable fee. The real and personal property of said corporation shall be subject to assessment and taxation for all District
and municipal purposes, in the same manner and to the same ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.
tent that like property in the city of Washington owned and possessed by individuals is liable to assessment and taxation.
"S&c. 14. And be it further enacted, That in consideration of
the privileges granted by this act to the Washington Market Company, the said company shall pay, yearly, every year during the
said term of ninety-nine years, unto the city of Washington, the
sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, which sum shall be received
by said city, and set apart and expended by and under the direction of the city government of said city, for the support and relief
of the poor of said city and of the District of Columbia ; and said
city may enforce the payment of said sum from time to time as
the same shall become due, either by an action at law or by the
same proceedings now authorized by law for the collection of taxes
by said city."
The real estate granted by this act was public property of
the United States. It had been, and at the time of the passage
of the act was, used as a market, and the buildings thereon,
erected by individuals for such use, and which the Market Company were required to purchase, were subsequently destroyed
by fire. Thereupon Congress passed the following joint reso
lution, which took effect December 20th, 1870, 16 Stat. 589:
".Be it resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the
chairman of the committees on public buildings and grounds of the
Senate and House bf Representatives, with the mayor of Washington, be, and hereby are, constituted commissioners to require the
Wrashington Market Company, organized under the fifteenth section of the act of Mfay twentieth, eighteen hundred and seventy,
promptly to furnish temporary market accommodations for the
marketmen who were driven out by the late fire ; and also to erect,
at the earliest possible day, the first stories or market portions of
the permanent market buildings provided for in said act; and that
said commissioners be authorized to make such alterations in the
buildings and such arrangements with said company as shall be
best calculated to secure the speedy erection of buildings creditable to the city, and sufficiently commodious for all the wants of.
the public : Provided,however, That the passage of this resolution
shall not be construed to supersede, delay, or in any way affect

DIS. OF COLUMBIA v. WASHINGTON MARKET CO. 247
Statement of Facts.
the pending investigations into the affairs of said company, nor to.
relieve the company or any person from consequences of any acts
under investigation."
On February 21st, 1871, the municipal government of the
city of Washington was superseded by the act of Congress of
that date, providing a government for the District of Columbia
as its successor, and the legislative assembly of the District of
Columbia, on August 23d, 1871, passed the following resolution:
"-Be it resolved by the -LegislativeAssembly of the District of
Columbia, That the governor be authorized and required to act
as one of the commissionerp of the Washington Market Company,
under the resolution of Congress approved Decembdr twenty,
eighteen hundred and seventy; and that he be requested to procure such alterations in the plan of the buildings to be erected by
said company as shall transfer the proposed hall from the Ninthstreet wing to the main building on Pennsylvania avenue, and
also to secure a reduction from twenty-five thousand dollars to
twenty thousand dollars of the annual rental required to be paid
by said company, and which is now assessed by the company upon
the stall-holders."
The act of Congress making appropriations to supply deficiencies, etc., approved March 3d, 1873, 17 Stat. 540, contains
the following paragraph:
"For the purchase by the United States of the interest of the
District of Columbia in the present City Hall building in Washington, now used solely for government purposes, such sum as
may be determined by three impartial appraisers, to be selected
by the Secretary of the Interior, not exceeding seventy-five thousand dollars, the same to be applied by said District only for the
erection of a suitable building for the District offices ; and the
Governor and Board of Public Works are authorized, if they deem
it advisable for that purpose, to make arrangementsto secure sufflcient land fronting on Pennsylvania and Louisiana avenues,
between Seventh and Ninth streets Provided, That the government of the United States shall not be liable for any expenditures

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.
for said land, or for the purchase money therefor, or for the
buildings to be erected thereon ; and no land, or the use thereof,
is hereby granted for the purpose of erecting any building thereon for such building."
On June 26th, 1873, the legislative assembly of the District
of Columbia passed an act appropriating the sum of $90,000 for
the erection of a suitable building for the District offices, under
the direction of the governor and board of public works, which
included the sum of $75,000, receivable for its interest in the
City Hall building under the provisions of the above paragraph
from the deficiency appropriation act.
In view of that expenditure the Governor and Board of Public Works made the arrangement for a site for the intended
structure with the Washington Market Company, contained in
'the following memorandum of agreement between them:
"In pursuance of the act of Congress of MAarch 3d, 1873, authorizing the governor and board of public works, if they deem
it advisable, for the purpose of erecting thereon a suitable building for District offices, to make arrangements to secure sufficient
land fronting on Pennsylvania and Louisiana avenues, between
Seventh and Ninth streets, it is hereby agreed that" 1. The Washington Market Company shall, by good and sufficient quitclaim deed, release and convey to the District of Columbia, all the title and interest of said company, acquired under
act of Congress of Mlay 20th, 1870, incorporating said company,
in and to so much of the land within said District, described in
section two of said act, and fronting Pennsylvania and Louisiana
avenues, as is contained within the following limits:
"Beginning at the southwest corner of Seventh street and
Pennsylvania avenue; thence westerly along the southerly side
of Pennsylvania avenue to its intersection with the southerly side
of Louisiana avenue; thence westerly along the southerly side of
Louisiana avenue to the east side of Ninth street; thence along
the east line of Ninth street eighty-six feet ; thence easterly on a
line parallel with the aforesaid southerly line of Louisiana avenue
to a point eighty-six feet south of said intersection of the southerly line of Pennsylvania and Louisiana avenues ; and thence on
a line parallel with the aforesaid southerly side of Pennsylvania

DIS. OF COLUMBIA v. WASHINGTON MARKET CO. 249
Statement of Facts.
avenue to the westerly line of Seventh street, at a point eighty-six
feet from the corner began at ; thence northerly along the west
line of Seventh street eighty-six feet, to the corner began at.
"The Washington Market Company shall also, in said deed,
convey to said District the right to use in common with said
Market Company, as a passage-way and court-yard, all the land
between the lot conveyed in said deed and a line drawn westerly
from Seventh to Ninth streets, ten feet north of the north walls
of the present Seventh and Ninth street buildings of said Market
Company.
,,.In consideration of the aforesaid release and conveyance by
the Washington Market Company to the District of Columbia,
the District will assume and fulfil all obligations imposed upon
the company by section 14 of said act of May 20th, 1870 (as
modified by act of the legislative assembly of the District of August 23d, 1871), except as follows :
"The Market Company shall pay annually to the District of
Columbia, during the term and for the purp9se mentioned in said
section fourteen, the sum of seven thousand five hundred dollars,
payable quarterly, which sum shall during said term be in the
place of all rental for the ground occupied by the market buildings of said company; and in case in any year the general District taxes upon said ground and market buildings shall exceed
five thousand five hundred dollars, the excess above that amount
shall be deducted from said rental of seven thousand five hundred
dollars, so that the total annual payments for rental and taxes
shall not exceed thirteen thousand dollars ; the District, however,
not hereby releasing, but expressly reserving, and the Market
Company hereby confirming, the right of the District, given by
section two of the act of May 20th, 1870, of fixing and controlling,
for the protection of the market dealers and of the public, the
amount of rentals of the stalls and stands in said market buildings ; and it is also hereby agreed that the annual rental of stalls
and stands in the other markets in the city of Washington shall
not be fixed by the District authorities at a lower rate per square
foot of area than seventy per cent. of the rate fixed under said
section for stalls and stands in the market buildings of said company; and the District shall not use the land released and conveyed as aforesaid for the purpose of a market.
"This agreement shall take effect April 1st, 1873, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

Market Company shall at once settle its past rental account to
that time at the rate, since August 23d, 1871, fixed by the resolution of the legislative assembly of that date ; and shall immediately pay the balance due the treasurer. of the District.
"Possession of the land conveyed shall be given the District
upon the day of executing this agreement:
"Dated at Washington, March 18th, 1873.
"WASHINGTON

IARKET COMPANY,

By M. G. EMERY, President.

"H.

D. COOKE, Governor,

"ALEX.

R.

SHEPHERD,

"JAMrEs

A.

MAGRUDER,

"S.

P. BRoWx,

"ADOLF

CLUSS,

".Board of Public IForks."
By a deed of the same date the Washington Market Cornpany conveyed and released to the District of Columbia the
real estate described in the agreement, which deed was delivered and recorded.
From the bill of exceptions, taken upon the trial of the
action in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, it
appeared that, "To further maintain the issues upon its part
joined, the defendant offered and gave evidence to the jury
tending to prove that immediately upon the execution of said
agreement of March 18th, 1873, said defendant settled with
the proper officers of said District of Columbia its past rental
account on the terms and in the manner fixed in said agreement, and paid to the treasurer of said District the balance
agreed in said settlement to be due from the defendant to
said District; that defendant had paid its said rental account
from and including March 18th, 1873, to April 1st, 1873, at
the rate of $20,000 per annum. Defendant further gave in
evidence a letter dated April 1st, 1873, signed officially by the
comptroller at that date of said District, and addressed to said
defendant, acknowledging that defendant had settled and paid
to said District all amounts due from defendant on rental account up to said April 1st, 1873. Defendant further proved
that from said last date to the date of this suit it has paid to

DIS. OF COLUMBIA v. WASttlTGTON MARKET CO. 251
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the plaintiff, on account of said rent, at the rate of $7,500
annually; that immediately subsequent to the date of said
agreement and execution and delivery of said indenture, conveying to the plaintiff the property fronting on Pennsylvania
avenue between Seventh and Ninth streets northwest, in the
city of Washington, District of Columbia, the plaintiff took
possession of the ground between said limits, and made excavations for a foundation for a building for offices for the District
of Columbia, but had not proceeded more than a few days in
excavating before the work was stopped; that the defendant
has not, from the date of said indenture, been in possession of
or exercised any power'or authority over the ground so conveyed, or any part thereof."
And there was no evidence inconsistent with this.
The amount sought to be recovered by the plaintiff was the
annual rental of $25,000, accrued during the period specified
in the declaration, giving credit for payments actually made,
but without regard to the reduction and settlement claimed by
the defendant under the agreement of March 18th, 1873.
This agreement the plaintiff in error claimed to be void. The
court below being of a different opinion, directed a verdict for
the defendant, the judgment on which was brought into review
by this writ of error.
-2-. A. G. Riddle for the plaintiff in error.-I. It cannot be
contended that the District had any power to acquire this
property under any provision of the organic law. Sec. 53 provides that "the District shall never pay, assume or become responsible for the debts or liabilities of, or in any manner give,
loan, or extend its credit to or in aid of, any public or other
corporation, association, or individual." iRev. Stat. D. C. 6.
See. 55 declares "the legislative assembly shall have no power
to release or extinguish, in whole or in part, the indebtedness,
liability, or obligation of any corporation or individual to the
District, or to any municipal corporation therein," &c. By
the 14th section of the charter of the defendant, it became
indebted to the corporation of Washington in the sum of
$25,000 per annum, for the benefit of the poor. By the

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

second paraoTaph of this arrangement, the District undertakes
to assurne this very debt, in violation of the 53d section. It
also undertakes to release the Market Company from a payment of a part of the same, in violation of the 55th section referred to. The 12th section of the charter authorizes the corporation of Washington to acquire the property under certain
conditions; but further legislation is expressly made necessary.
-II. The 13th section of the charter vesting the land in the
Market Company declares that the estate shall "be taken and
considered as a determinable fee." Plowden says that a determinable fee is an estate that may continue forever. This
estate could not be acquired by the municipal corporation except by vote of its councils, and act of Congress, as provided in
the 12th section; nor could Congress repeal the charter in an
indirect way. The property is charged with the servitude of
$25,000 rent per annum, which enters into the fibre of its property. The beneficiary was in existence, and the interest
vested. The District became the trustee, and it could not acquire the property; nor could it and the defendant in any way
change or modify any of the conditions of the trust. It may
be doubted whether Congress itself could, even by a direct exercise of its power in the premises. Thus, then, we have Congress, the owner of the property in fee, dedicating it to a
specific purpose for ninety-nine years. It calls into existence,
by special act of creation, a person to hold it and execute that
purpose, with power for no other use or object. As a legal
consequence of this action it ordains that this property shall be
used for no other purpose whatever. It forbids all other possible uses and purposes by withholding all power in the premises. There was no power on the part of the Market Company to sell; none on the part of the District to buy---IIL
The act of March 3d, 1873, is the sole source of power in the
premises. It can never be presumed that Congress would intend any other and different disposition of this property, unless such intention is clearly expressed. All acts bearing upon
this matter must be construed in harmony with this disposition, if such construction can be fairly made. Any other will
be yielded with reluctance, and only on legal compulsion.

DIS. OF COLUMBIA v. WASHINGTON MARKET CO. 253
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The debates on the passage of the act show that Congress did
not understand that it was authorizing such an agreement as
was actually made, or that it was dealing with a property
which it had previously granted to another, and dedicated to
another purpose. For the right to refer to the debates to aid
the construction of the act, see Blake v. N~ational Banks, 23
Wall. 307; United States v. Union Pacfc Railroad Co., 91
U. S. 72.-IV. If the act of 1873 is to be construed as having
reference to the land granted to the Market Company by its
charter, then they are in parimateria, and must stand together.
On its face it authorizes the District to do a certain thing.
The District is a corporation, and its powers are to be strictly
construed. If it applies to. the Market Company, then the
same rule applies. Sedgwick on Statutes, 1st ed., p. 340. The
Market Company is not even named in 'the act. Suppose that
in thus authorizing the District the act also authorizes the
company to arrange with it, what is the extent of the power
conferred? To purchase, close out the transaction, and take
the company's title? Not at all The act does not so say, as
it would, had it so intended. Clearly this is not an act whose
meaning is to be forced by construction beyond the obvious
scope of its language. Had it intended that the officers of the
District should buy, it would have so said. They are "authorized to purchase," would have been the language, and not "to
make arrangements to secure," as the language is. When.the
whole matter is taken into consideration, if Congress is to be
supposed to have understood what it was doing, what it intended was that the District should arrange and report back,
and ask for the further aid of Congress to carry the arrangement out, if it saw fit; and hence, at that time, it would make
no grant of its title to the land, and no appropriation of
money; and it knew that without both the District could
never build such a building as it required on that site. It
would not permit the District to pay the $75,000 for land. Its
use was expressly limited to the erection of a building. If
Congress did intend that the District, by making an, arrangement to secure, should actually buy, would that authorize the
convention entered into? Does the language of this act au-

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

thorize the District, 1. To discharge the company from the
payment of the $25,000 for the poor-bearing in mind, all the
time, that Congress has usually made an annual appropriation
equal to that, for the relief of the poor of the District? 2. To
discharge the company from the building of the great structure
pursuant to the specifications of its charter, and render its erection impossible? 3. Does it authorize the District to change
the rate of taxation of the company's property, which the 13th
section of the charter places in the status of all other property 4. To tax the stalls and stands in the other markets for
its benefit? Clearly no construction can extend the language
of the act to include these powers.
.Ab.. William Birney and .211. B. F. ButL-r for the defendant in error.
Miz. JuSTrE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the above language, he said:
We see no ground of support for the suggestion of counsel,
that Congress, by the act incorporating the Washington Market Company and fixing the terms for their use of the public
property granted to them, established an irrevocable charitable
trust for the poor of Washington city, and thereby disabled
itself from authorizing any subsequent changes in the mode
and conditions of that grant; nor are we willing to accept the
debates that are reported as occurring in Congress at the time
of the passage of the deficiency appropriation act of March 3d,
1873, as evidence of the meaning of the clause on which the
controversy in this case depends.
The question is whether, according to its correct construction, that clause authorized the parties to execute the agreement into which they entered.
Upon a consideration of the language of the provision, it
becomes apparent that the sum of money appropriated by it as
compensation to the District of Columbia, for its interest in
the City Hall building, was to be applied only for the erection
of a suitable building for the District offices. No part of it
could lawfully be expended in the purchase of land for a site.

DIS. OF COLUMBIA v. WASHINGTON MARKET CO. 255
Opinion of the Court.
It is equally plain that no public lands belonging to the United
States were granted to be used for that purpose. Express authority is given to the Governor and Board of Public Works
to make arrangements to secure land fronting on Pennsylvania
and Louisiana avenues, between Seventh and Ninth streets, if
they deem it advisable, for that purpose. It is not denied that,
in connection with the express declaration that no right to use
any public ground was thereby granted, this description necessarily covered a portion of the real estate granted to the Market
Company by their act of incorporation. Any arrangement to
secure it as a site for the District-buildings must necessarily be
made with them. And power granted to the authorities of the
District of Columbia to make such an arrangement also carried
with it power on the part of the Market Company to become
parties to it. The fact that the latter are not expressly named
is without legal significance. The designation of the property
was also the designation of its owner.
It is evident, also, that the arrangement authorized to be
made was described as intended to have the effect of securing
the land for the purpose. This necessarily implied that the
arrangement, when made as authorized, should be final. The
suggestion that it was intended to be preparatory and preliminary only, as the basis of a report to be made afterwards to
Congress for its approval and ratification, finds no warrant in
the context, and is quite clearly negatived by the terms in
which the act repels. the idea that the arrangement to be
made should in any way commit the United States to any liability to pay for any expenditures, either for the land itself or
the improvements to be made upon it. It is, therefore, clearly
to be inferred that the arrangement intended was to be made
with the Market Company for a designated portion of their
land, and that it must be effected without the outlay of any
money.
This could be accomplished in but one way. It was to induce the Market Company to relinquish their right to the
exclusive use of the specified portion of their land, upon the
basis of some modification of the terms upon which it was held.
As these embraced payments of money, .which the Market

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Syllabus.

Company were under obligation to pay to the District of Columbia, and which the government of the District had exclusive
power to administer for the purposes described in the act, it
follows that it must have been intended to authorize such an
arrangement in respect to these obligations of the Market
Company as would furnish to the latter a consideration and
inducement for a release of a part of their property. And no
consideration for the release of a part of demised property is
more suitable to the nature of the relation between the parties
than an equitable or agreed apportionment of the rent. Such
was the form and substance of the arrangement in question.
The adjustment of the arrearages of rent was a legitimate
incident, whether the prior agreement for a reduction of the
amount from $25,000 to $20,000 was lawful, at the time it was
first made, or not. It became so by becoming part of the arrangement finally entered into. Whether other provisions of
the arrangement, not brought into this controversy, such as the
provision relating to the maximum of taxes thereafter to be
assessed, and in respect to the rental of stalls, to be charged to
occupants in the market-house building, are lawful and binding,
it is not necessary to decide, as they are not proper matters of
consideration in the present action.
We are of opinion that there is no error in the record of this
judgment, and it is accordingly
Affimed.

WILKINS v. ELLETT, Administrator.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Decided April 16th, 1883.

Conflict of Laws--Executor and Administrator.
When a debt due to a deceased person is voluntarily paid by the debtor at his
own domicil in a State in which no administration has been taken out, and
in which no creditors or next of kin reside, to an administrator appointed
in another State, and the sum paid is inventoried and accounted for by him

