OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts as above, he continued:
Upon these facts, in our opinion, it was the duty of the court
below to enter the decree it did requiring a completion of the
performance of the contract by Bigelow. Whether, in view of
the requirements of the Statute of Frauds, the memorandum
signed by both parties was of itself sufficient to support the
bill, is a question we do not think it important to discuss, because, if the memorandum is not enough, the terms of the contract have been otherwise clearly established by the evidence,
and there has been full performance by Armes and substantial
part performance by Bigelow.
[The decree is acffmned.
MR. CHIEF IUSTICE WAITE

GRAY v. HOWE and Another.
APPE AT FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Decided November 13th, 1882.

Practice.
Where the supreme court of a Territory on appeal reverses the judgment of a
district court and sets aside findings of fact, and makes no new statement
of facts in the nature of a special verdict, the judgment of the supreme
court of the Territory must be affirmed on appeal.

-r. R. I. Baskiq for the appellant.
.Ar. Z. Snow, for the appellees.
JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the judgment of the Supreme' Court
of Utah, in a special statutory proceeding to settle a controversy between the parties as to their respective rights in the
E. - of lot 3, block 104, plat A, Salt Lake City, under the trust
created through the purchase, by the mayor of the city, from
the United States, of the lands on which the city stands, in accordance with the provisions of the Town-site Act of March
2d, 1867, ch. 177, 14 Stat. 541. Gray, the appellant, claims
the whole of the property. The appellees contest his title and
MR. CHIEF

GRAY v. HOWE.
Opinion of the Court.

set up occupancy by themselves at the time of the purchase.
The proceeding was begun in the probate court, where, after
a hearing, the facts were found and a judgment entered in
favor of the appellees, each for the part of the lot claimed by
them respectively. Gray thereupon appealed to the district court
of the Territory. This, it was held, in Cannon v. Pratt,99 U.
S. 619, might be done. Afterwards the district.court heard the
cause and found the facts and stated its conclusions of law
thereon, as required by the Practice Act of the Territory. After
the findings and conclusions were filed in the district court, the
present appellees excepted, on the ground that the facts as found
were contrary to the evidence, and also because the court refused to find facts as requested by them. A motion was also
made to set aside the findings and grant a new trial. This
motion was overruled and judgment entered in favor of the
claim of Gray. Thereupon the present appellees appealed to
the supreme court, both from the refusal to grant a new trial
and from the judgment. This was allowable under the Practice
Act of the Territory. The supreme court heard the case, reversed the judgment of the district court, and remanded the
cause, with instructions to enter a judgment rejecting the claim
of Gray and allowing the claims of the appellees. From this
judgment of the supreme court Gray took the present appeal.
The supreme court made no "statment of the facts of the case
in the nature of a special verdict," as required by the act of
April '7th, 1874, ch. 80, 1 Sup. Rev. St. 13 ; and as that court
must have set aside the findings of the district court in order to
render the judgment it gave, there is nothing here which we
can re-examine. Since the act of 18I8, spra,the evidence at
large is not to be transmitted here from the courts of the Territories; but in lieu of the evidence "a statement of the facts of
the case in the nature of a special verdict." In Stringfellow v.
Cain, 99 U. S. 610, it was hell if the findings of the district
court were sustained and a general judgment of affirmance
rendered in the supreme court, the findings of the district court,
thus approved by the supreme court, would furnish a sufficient
statement of facts for the purposes of an appeal to this court.
So, too, if there is a reversal and another judgment rendered

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

on the facts as found. But here the only exceptions to the
findings below were that they were contrary to the evidence,
and a judgment has been rendered by the supreme court in
every way inconsistent with those findings. The necessary inference, therefore, is that the findings sent up to that court
were set aside and the case disposed of on the evidence. This,
it was also said in Stringfellow v. Cain, might be done in this
class of cases.
As the only exceptions taken in the rulings of the district
court were by Howe, in whose favor judgment has finally been
rendered in the supreme court, they need not be considered
here.
It follows that the judgnent of the Supreme Court of the
Territory must be affirmed.
So ordered.

FEIBELMAIN v. PACKARD and Others.
IN ERROR :TO TTE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Decided November 13th, 1882.

Error-Practice.
A writ of error sued out by one of two or more joint defendants without a
summons and severance or equivalent proceeding, must be dismissed.

MJYr. J Ray, and X21.1?. G. Colb for plaintiff.
3/>r. Beckwitk for defendant.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Moses Feibelman and George Voelker, as partners, sued the
defendants in error to recover damages for -the seizure of their
partnership goods by Packard, marshal of the United States for
the District of Louisiana. A judgment was rendered against
them. Their interests in the suit were joint, and the judgment
affects them jointly and not separately. Feibelman alone has
brought this writ of error, and there has been no summons and
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

