H1AWLEY v. FAIRBANKS.
Syllabus.

What was said in the other case as to the construction of
section six of that charter is applicable to this, and, referring
to the opinion in that case for the reasons,
We afrm thisjudgment.
FIELD, J.-I concur in the judgment in this case for the
reason expressed for my concurrence in the decision of .Neal
ihgges v. Yte People of the &ate of Illinois.

tLAN, J.-For the reasons stated in my dissenting opinion
in Ruggles v. People of Illnoi8,I dissent from the opinion of
the court, but concur in affirming the judgment.
iR. JUSTICE BL

cToHFORD took no part in the decision of this

case.

HAWLEY v. FAIRBANKS and Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE "UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Decided May 7th, 1883.
.Appea?--Conflictof Law-Injunction-Jfurisdition--andamus-unicipaI
Bonds-Municipal Corporations-Stautes.
An act of the State of Illinois authorizing subscriptions by municipalities to
the stock of a railroad company required the town clerks to transmit to
county clerks transcripts of votes authorizing subscriptions, and the amount
voted and the rate of interest to be paid, and after issue of bonds, certificates of the amount of bonds issued, the rate of interest thereon, and the
number of each bond. It also required the county clerk, after the execution and delivery of the bonds, to annually compute and assess upon the
township enough to pay the accruing interest and cost of collection, and a
fund for redemption. A subsequent statute authorized holders of such
bonds to register them with the State auditor of public accounts, and made
it the duty of the auditor to estimate the amount of assessment necessary
to meet the interest, &c., and to inform the county clerk: Held,
That the object of each act was to provide a mode for information to reach the
county clerk as to the amount of money hecessary to be raised for these
purposes, and that certified copies of judgments recovered in the Circuit
Court of the United States by such bondholders upon their bonds lodged
with the county clerk, had the same force and effect as information derived

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.
in the modes provided by law, and made it the duty of the clerk to proceed
with the computation and assessment of the tax.
Where a State court enjoined a municipal officer from enforcing a tax to pay a
municipal obligation, and subsequently to the injunction a judgment for
payment of the interest which it was agreed should be made by the assess.
ment and collection of the tax was recovered in a circuit court of the
United States, the injunction cannot stand in the way of the enforcement
of the tax by the circuit court, to carry its judgment into execution.
When distinct causes of action are united in one suit for convenience, and to
save expense, and the sum at issue in some of the causes is insufficient to
give jurisdiction, and in others is sufficient to give it, those cases in which it
is insufficient will be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, and those in which
it is sufficient will be retained for adjudication.

Petition for mandamus to a county clerk, to compel the assessment of a tax to pay judgments recovered upon municipal
bonds issued to pay subscriptions to stock in a railroad corporation.
3 . James I Edsall and i11r. Johtn B. Hawley for plaintiff
in error.
Xr. George A. Sanders for Fairbanks, defendant in error.
3rr. T. C. J ather for Skinner, Thomas and Wetmore, defendants in error.
.Mr. Thomas S. .JcClellandfor all defendants in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 5th of April, 18'2, the town of Amboy, Lee County,
Illinois, issued a series of bonds in payment of a subscription
voted by the voters of the town to the capital stock of the
Chicago & Rock River Railroad Company. Both the subscription and bonds were authorized by the charter of the railroad
company, approved March 24th, 1869.
Sections 12 and 13 of this charter, which alone need be considered, are as follows:
X[n. CmEF JUSTICE WAITE

,' ยง 12. It shall be the duty of the clerk of any such city, town
or township, in which a vote shall be given in favor of subscription, within ten days thereafter, to transmit to the county clerk of
their counties a transcript or statement of the vote given, and the
amount so voted to be subscribed, and the rate of interest to be
paid: Provided, That when elections shall be held and bonds

HAWLEY v. FAIRBANKS.
Opinion of the Court.
issued, as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the clerk of such town
or township to file with the county clerk of their respective counties, within ten days after the issuing of said bonds, certificates
of the amount of bonds issued, and the rate of interest payable
thereon, and number of each bond.
,"ยง 13. It shall be the duty of the county clerk of said county,
annually, after the execution and delivering of such bonds afor6said, to compute and assess upon all the taxable property returned
by the assessor of such city, town, or township, a sum sufficient
to paythe interest and costs of collection and disbursements upon
all bonds so issued by the respective cities, towns or townships
which tax shall be extended upon the collector's books as other
taxes are, and, when collected, shall be paid to the treasurer of
the county ; and such city, town or township shall, when providing for the levying and collecting of other taxes, also assess upon
the property of such city, town or township, any rate not exceeding
three per cent. in any one year upon the assessment, to provide a
fund for the redemption of the principal and interest of such
bonds as or when they become due-said taxes to be levied and
collected as other taxes are ; but no tax shall be computed, assessed or collected, or any interest paid, to be applied upon said
bonds, unless such bonds have been executed and delivered."
By an act of the general assembly of Illinois "to fund and
provide for paying the railroad debts of counties, townships,
cities and towns," passed and in force April 16th, 1869, the
holders of that class of securities were authorized to register
them in the office of the auditor of public accounts of the State.
Sections 4 and 5 of that act are as follows:
"ยง 4. When the bonds of any county, township, city or town
shall be so registered, the State auditor shall annually ascertain
the amount of interest for the current year due and accrued and
to accrue upon such bonds, and from the amount so ascertained
he shall deduct the amount in the State treasury placed to the
credit of such county, township, city or town, as herein provided
and directed; and from the basis of the certificate of valuation
of property heretofore provided to be transmitted to him, or, in
case no such certificate shall be filed in his office, then upon the
basis of the total assessment of such county, township, city or
VOL. cvm-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.
town, for the year next preceding, he shall estimate and determine
the rate per centum on the valuation of property within such
county, township, city, or town, requisite to meet and satisfy the
amount of interest unprovided for, together with the ordinary cost
to the State of collection and disbursement of the same, to be estimated by the auditor and treasurer, and shall make and transmit
to the county clerk of such county, or to the proper officer or
authority whose duty it is or shall be to prepare the estimates and
books for the collection of State taxes in such county, township,
city or town, a certificate stating such estimated requisite per
centum for such purpose, to be filed in his office, and the same per
centum shall thereupon be deemed added to and a part of the per
centum which is or may be levied or provided by law for purposes of State revenue, and shall be so treated by such clerk,
officer or authority, in making such estimates and books for the
collection of taxes ; and the said tax shall be collected with the
State revenue, and all laws relating to the State revenue shall
apply thereto, except as herein otherwise provided.
"ยง 5. The State shall be deemed the custodian only of the several taxes so collected and credited to such county, township, city
or town, and shall not be deemed in any manner liable on account
of any such bonds; but the tax and fund so collected shall be
deemed pledged and appropriated to the payment of the interest
and principal of the registered bonds herein provided for, until
fully satisfied."
When the bonds of the town of Amboy were issued, the
town clerk did not transmit to the county clerk the statement
required by sec. 12 of the charter of the railroad company, but
the president of the company caused them to be registered in
the office of the auditor of public accounts in accordance with
the provisions of the act of 1869. During the years 1872 and
1873 the auditor made the proper certificate under the registry
law for the taxes to meet the interest for those years, and the
taxes were extended by the county clerk in due form on the
tax-collector's books, but before the collections were made certain tax-payers of the town obtained from the Circuit Court of
Lee County an injunction against the county clerk, the county
collector, and the town collector, restraining them from col-

HAWLEY v. FAIRBANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

lecting the taxes that had already been assessed, and also restraining the same parties and the auditor of public accounts of
the State from taking any steps for the levy or collection ofany other taxes to pay either the principal or the interest of
the bonds.
After this injunction was obtained the relators, Fairbanks,
Skinner, Thomas and Wetmore, being severally holders and
owners of certain of the bonds and coupons of the town,
began separate suits against the town in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois,
to recover the amounts due them, respectively, on their
coupons. These suits resulted in a judgment on the 13th of
March, 1878, in favor of Fairbanks for $2,449 damages and
$36.12 costs; another, on the 24th of January, 1878, in favor
of Skinner, for $2,018.50 damages and $47.10 costs; another,
on the 29th of November, 1875, in favor of Thomas, for $866
damages and $43.90 costs; and two others in favoi of Wetmore, one on the 17th of December, 1875, for $3,836.14 damages and $50.40 costs, and the other, on the 20th of June,
1876, for $1,058.33 damages and $31.50 costs.
These several judgments remain unpaid, and have all been
duly audited and allowed by the auditing board of the town,"
but the town clerk, whose duty it is to certify to the county
clerk, on or before the second Tuesday in August in each year,
the amount of taxes to be levied and collected to pay the
charges against the town for the current year, refused to certify the judgments and kept himself concealed so as to avoid
the process of the courts. The several plaintiffs then presented their respective judgments to the county clerk, and demanded that he "compute and assess upon all the taxable
property in said town of Amboy a sum sufficient to pay said
judgments, and each and every of them, and interest on the
same to the date of payment, and costs of suit in each case,
together with the costs of collecting and disbursing such
taxes, and to extend such taxes upon the collector's books
of said town of Amboy for the year 1879." This the county
clerk refused to do, and thereupon the several judgment plaintiffs united as relators in an application to the Circuit Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States for a mandamus requiring him to comply
with their demands.
To this application the county clerk answered, setting up defences, as follows:
1. That the town clerk had never transmitted to the county
clerk the statement required by section 12 of the charter of the
railroad company.
2. That the town clerk had never certified to the county
clerk the allowance of the judgments by the board of auditors
of the town.
3. That all taxes to pay principal and interest on the bonds
covered by the several judgments of the relators, certified by
the auditor of public accounts under the registry law, had been
duly extended on the tax-collector's books, and their collection
enjoined by the circuit court of the county; and4. That he had himself been enjoined by the circuit court of
the county from extending any taxes whatever on the taxbooks to pay the principal or interest of the bonds held by the
relators.
Upon demurrer to this answer, judgment was given in the
court below awarding a writ of mandamus directed to the

county clerk and commanding him to extend upon the tax-collector's books of the town, for the year 1879, a sum sufficient
to pay each of the several judgments held by the relators, particularly describing the judgments separately. To reverse that
judgment this writ of error was brought.
We are met at the outset with a motion of the defendants in
error to dismiss the writ in this case on the ground that the
several judgments proceeded upon below cannot be united to
give us jurisdiction, and the amount due on any one of them
does not exceed $5,000. The rule is settled, as stated
more than once at the present term, that when distinct
causes of action, in favor of distinct parties, are united in one
suit, and distinct judgments are rendered for or against the
several parties, their judgments cannot be joined to give us
jurisdiction. -ExparteBaltimore and Ohio Railroad Company,
106 U. S. 5; Farmers'Loan and T'ust Company v. TFaterman,
106 U. S. 265; Adams v. Crittenden, 106 U. S. 576; Schwed v.

HAWLEY v. FAIRBANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

Smith, 106 U. S. 188. In the present case distinct causes of
action, in favor of distinct parties, were united, for convenience
and to save expense, in one suit, and distinct orders were made
in favor of each one of the several judgment creditors. The
proceeding was analogous to a creditors' bill brought by
distinct creditors upon distinct judgments to reach the property
of their common debtor. That was the case of Schwed v. Smith,
supra, in which we held, following Seaver v. Bigelows, 5 Wall.
208, that the amount due the several creditors could not be
joined to give jurisdiction on an appeal by the defendants. In
the present case the amount due the relators Fairbanks,
Skinner, and Thomas, respectively, does not exceed $5,000.
As to them, consequently, the writ must be dismissed. But
as to the relator Wetmore the case is different. She has
two judgments, and the aggregate amount due her, including interest to the time the mandamus was awarded, exceeds $5,000. The matter in dispute vith her, therefore, is
sufficient for our jurisdiction, and the cause must be retained
for adjudication in respect to her rights. This was the form
of proceeding adopted in Farmers'L7odn and Trust Company
v. Waterman, supra.
Proceeding, then, to the consideration of the case on its
merits, we will take up the defences relied on by the county
clerk in the order in which they have been stated.
1. As to the omission of the town clerk to certify the statement required by the 12th section of the charter.
By the judgment of the circuit court, for the enforcement
of which the mandamus is asked, the fact of the issue of the
bonds and the" liability of the town for the payment of the
coupons held by the judgment creditor was judicially determined. Section 13 of the charter of the railroad company
made it the duty of the county clerk annually, after the issue
of the bonds, to compute and assess on the taxable property in
the town a sum sufficient to meet the interest as it matured,
and provide a sum for the redemption of the principal. The
statement of the town clerk under section 12 was not a condition precedent to the computation and assessment of the tax by
the county clerk. It was one way of informing the county

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

clerk of his duty, but not necessarily the only way.

The law

obliged him to make the assessment in due course of business
after the bonds were put out, and until they were paid in full.
When, therefore, the judgments of the Circuit Court of the
United States were presented to him, he was officially informed
that the liability of the town for the payment of the coupons
sued for had been judicially established, and it became his duty,
under section 13, to compute the tax necessary to pay them,
and put it.in the way of collection. No'further certificate from
any town officer was necessary. The issue of the bonds, under
which the judgment creditor claimed the right to a tax, was
conclusively proven, and that was enough. There is nothing
in Sfringfeld and Illinois Southeastern Raibway Company v.
County Clerk of Wayne County, 4 Ill. 27, to the contrary of
this. In that case the vote was for a donation by the town to
be paid by a tax, and there was no other evidence of the obligation to levy the tax than the vote of the electors. Under
such circumstances there was reason for holding that the only
legitimate evidence that could be produced to the county clerk
of the fact of the vote was the certificate, which had been
specially provided for in the act authorizing the donation to be
made. Here, however, the bond carried on its face the declaration of the town that the holder was entitled to have the tax
assessed and collected for its payment, and whatever was legitimate evidence of the issue of the bond was legitimate evidence
of the duty of the clerk to act. The fact of the issue having
been conclusively established by the judgment, the presentation
of the exemplification of judgment to the county clerk was all
that was in law necessary to make it his duty tb proceed.
2. As to the certificate of the town clerk that the judgments
had been audited and allowed by the town auditors.
What has already been said is equally applicable to this
branch of the case. The judgment established the legal right
of the judgment creditor to have the tax specially provided for
by section 13 of the charter of the company computed and assessed by the county clerk without any further action of the
town officers. After the issue of the bonds it became the positive duty of the county clerk to compute and assess, in the

HAWLEY v. FAIRBANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

regular course of business, to the extent that was necessary,
the tax that had been contracted for to meet the liability thus
incurred. It became, in legal effect, a part of the contract of
the town that this should be done, and the judgment of the
court establishing the contract was equivalent to a judicial determination that the tax must be levied by the county clerk,
unless the judgment was otherwise provided for. Whenever,
therefore, it was made to appear to the county clerk in any
way that no other provision had been made, it was his duty
under the law to proceed with the computation and assessment
of the tax. The certificate of the town clerk, that the judgment had been allowed by the board of auditors for payment
through the means of the annual taxation would have been one
way, and, perhaps, the most appropriate way, of furnishing the
information which the county clerk needed, but it has nowhere
been made the only lawful way. When, therefore, the town
clerk refused to make and forward such a certificate, there was
no legal impediment to the employment of some other means
to give the county clerk notice of what his duty required of
him in the premises. The certificate of the town clerk was not
in this case any more a condition precedent to the action of
the county clerk than it was under the requirements of section 12.
3. As to the certificate of the auditor of public accounts.
This, like the certificate of the town clerk, is only one way
of informing the county clerk of what his duty under section
13 requires. It is not, any more than the certificate of the
town clerk, an indispensable prerequisite to the action of the
county clerk.
4. As to the injunction.
The relator was not a party to the suit in which the injunction was obtained, and, consequently, is not bound by it.
Having established her right to the tax by the judgment of the
circuit court in a suit to which the town in its corporate capacity was a party, she may use the power of that court to command the assessment and collection of the tax as .a means of
carrying the judgment into execution, notwithstanding what
the tax-payers may have caused to be done in some proceed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

ing to which the relator was not a party. The right to the
computation and assessment, as well as the collection of the
tax, followed as a matter of law from the establishment of the
liability of the town for the payment of the interest which it
was agreed should be made by the assessment and collection of

the tax. An injunction against the officers before the judgment against the town was rendered cannot stand in the way
of the enforcement of the tax by the circuit court to carry its
judgment into execution.
The writ of error is dismissed as to the relators Fairbanks,
Skinner, and Thomas, and the judgment of the circuit court

awarding the mandamus in favor of Caroline C. Wetmore is
affirmed.
The cause is -remanded-withleave to modify thejudgment in
such a way as to adapt the command of the writ of mandamus to the circumstances consequent on the delay caused
by the pendency of the writ of error in this court.

EX PARTE HUNG HANG.
ORIGINAL.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

Habeas Corpus-Jurisdit&m.
Except in cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, or consuls, or
those in which a State is a party, the supreme court can only issue a writ of
habeas corpus under its appellate jurisdiction.

Application for a writ of habeas corpus.
'.Solicitor-Geaeral,Mr.AssistantAttorney-GeneralSimons
and .1&. -Hall 3fcAllister for the petitioner.
CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an application for a writ of habeas corpus for the
purpose of an inquiry into the legality of the detention of the
petitioner, Hung Hang, a subject of the Emperor of China, by
AITR.

