OCTOBER TERM, 1882'
Statement of Facts.

THE NUESTlA SEKOlTA DE REGLA.
APPEAL FROM THE

DISTRICT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Appeal-ConstitutionalLaw-Demurrage-Execution---Prize-Probable
Cause-Supreme Court.
The Nuestra Seftora de Ilegla was seized in November, 1861, by the army. In
December, 1861, the master chartered her to the quartermaster's department for two hundred dollars a day. She remained in the service of the
quartermaster till January 29th, 1862, when she was delivered to the navy,
by whom she was used as a transport till March 1, 1862. She was then
sent to New York and libelled as prize. A decree of restitution was made
June 20th, 1863. Proceedings to fix the amount of demurrage were stayed
to enable the matter to be adjusted diplomatically. In 1870 the Department of State informed the Spanish Minister that it would be more satisfactory to the United States to have the question settled by the court. A
reference to a commissioner resulted in a decree for demurrage to the date
of the decree for restoration, in all 269 days. On appeal the decree was set
aside as excessive, and the case remanded. Under a new reference the
same demurrage was allowed, and decree therefor made: Held that
1. It having been settled by the former decree in 17 Wall. 29, that the steamer
was not lawful prize, and that the capture was without probable cause,
these questions were no longer opefi. Supervisors v. Hennicott, 94 U. S.
498, followed.
2. The capture being made by the army, the vessel was not subject to condemnation as prize.
3. The executive could, without legislative authority, submit to the determination of a judicial tribunal the question of the amount of damages for the
capture.
4. A captor who does not institute judicial proceedings for the condemnation
of his prize without unnecessary delay is subject to demurrage in case a
decree of restitution is made after proceedings are begun.
5. The United States are liable to demurrage in the present case from the date
when the surrender for adjudication might have been made until the date
of the surrender, at the rate fixed by the charter party.

The steamer Nuestra Sefiora de Regla was built in New
York for the claimant, a railroad company in Cuba, created by
the laws of Spain. She was delivered to an agent of the claimant on the 6th of November, 1861, and sailed for Havana in
command of a Spanish master.

She was a side-wheel steamer

of about three hundred tons burden, built to run on a ferry

THE NUESTRA SERORA DE REGLA.
Statement of Facts.

between Havana and a terminus of the railroad company's
railroad, On her way down the coast she went into Port
Royal, and while there the quarter-master of the United States
at that post offered to purchase her for the use of the government. The master declined to sell, as he had no authority.
She was then, on the 29th of November, seized by order of
Gen. Thomas W. Sherman, in command of the United States
forces. In communicating the fact of the seizure to the adjutant-general of the army, on the second of December, the general said:
"If this steamer I have seized is confiscated, she should be left
here. She is just the thing we want, and admirably adapted for
these waters and our purpose. She is new and exactly such a boat
as they have at the Jersey City Ferry in N. Y. Will cary 1,000
men, and will draw not over six or seven feet."

No judicial proceedings were instituted for her condemnation,
but at some time before December 16th, the following charterparty was entered into:
"Articles of agreement made talis , day of December, 1861,
between

.

, captain of the steam ferry-boat Nuestra

Seflora de Regla, for and on behalf of the owners of the said ferryboat, of the first part, and Captain Rufus Saxton, as assistant
quarter-master in the United States army, for and on behalf of the
United States of America, of the second part, witnesseth :
"That the said party of the first part, for and in consideration
of the payment hereinafter promised to be well and truly made by
the said party of the, second part, hath chartered to the United
States the steam ferry-boat Neustra Sefnora de Regla, with all her
tackle, apparel, furniture, and machinery, to be used for transporting troops, stores, or other things, as the said party of the second
part may direct.
"And the said party of the second part doth agree, for and in
consideration of the faithfnl performance of the above duty, that the
said party of the first part shall receive the sum of .two hundred
dollars for each and every day the said boat may be kept in service, said steam ferry-boat to be kept staunch, sound and strong,

OCTOBER TER'M, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

and her machinery in good running order and condition, by the
party of the first part.
"It is understood by the parties to this agreement that in case
the said steam ferry-boat shall be confiscated to the United
States, then this contract shall be void ; otherwise to remain in
full force and virtue.
"It is furthermore understood by the parties to this agreement
that the said steam ferry-boat is not to be run outside of the bar
of Port Royal, but at any and all points on the rivers and creeks
that connect with Broad River.
"This contract to commence on the 16th day of December, 1861,
and continue in force ten days, after which each party has a right
to cancel the same.
"In witness whereof the undersigned have hereunto affixed their
hands and seals, at Hilton Head, S. C., the day and date first
above written.
"(S'd)
YGNAcIO A. RrYxAts. [L. s.]
"(S'd)
R. SAXTON,
[L. S.]
"6Capt. U. S. Army, Cidef Quartermaster, . C."
The testimony showed that two hundred dollars a day was a
fair price for the use of the vessel at that place at that time.
One witness, competent to judge, testified to that effect, and no
attempt was made by the United States to contradict him.
The vessel was kept in the possession or under the control of
the quarter-master tntil the 29th of January, when she was in
form delivered to the flag officer of the navy in command at
that station. She was, however, kept in constant use by the
government as a transport, in the w'ay contemplated by the
charter, from the 16th of December until about the 1st of March,
when she was sent to New York. No judicial proceedings
were begun against her until the 9th of June, when a libel of
information in prize was filed in the District Court for the
Southern District of New York by the United States, in behalf
of themselves "and of the naval captors in interest." She was
attached on the same day by the marshal, and the usual monition was issued and served. The owner filed a claim on the 9th
of July. No further proceedings were had until the 22d of
August, when the following order was entered:

THE NU-ESTRA SEIRORA DE REGLA.
Statement of Facts.
"On reading and filing a notice of motion and a verified copy
of a letter from the secretary of the navy, stating that the navy
department desires to obtain possession of the steamer Nuestra
Sefnora de Regla; and on hearing Mr. E. Delafield Smith, United
States district attorney, in support of the motion, and Mr. W. R.
Beebe, proctor for the claimants, in opposition thereto, it is hereby
ordered that the said steamer Nuestra Seflora de Regla be appraised by Benjamin F. Delano, United States naval constructor,
and Benjamin F. Garvin, chief engineer, both now stationed at
the navy yard, New York, and John Inglis; that such appraisement be filed with all convenient speed with the clerk of this
court; that thereafter said steamer be delivered to the navy department for the use of the government, upon filing in court a
certificate of the assistant treasurer of the United States in New
York that the amount of the appraisement has been deposited in
the United States treasury, subject to the order and disposal of
the court on final decree in the case.
" SAMUEL R.

BETTS."

The letter of the secretary of the navy referred to in this
order was as follows:
I,
1"NAvy DEPAmTmENT, August 1lth, 1862.
"Sin: The department will take the steamer Nuestra Sefiora de
Regla at the appraisement of twenty-five thousand dollars.
"It desires early information, if practicable, as to the appraisement in the case of the Annie, the Stettin, and the Memphis.
"I am, resp'y, your ob't s'v't,
"GIDEON WELLS."
The vessel was valued by two of the appraisers at $28,000
and by the third at $30,000, and immediately delivered to the
navy department, although the certificate of deposit provided
for was never filed. The cause was heard on the 20th June,
1863, and a decree entered directing that the vessel be restored
to the owner, but reserving all questions of costs, and damages
resulting from the capture, for future hearing and determination. On the 15th of October, 1863, the following entry was
made in the cause:
",It having been mutually agreed between the counsel for the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1882.
Statement of Facts.
respective parties that the said vessel, in the above decision, was
immediately taken into the possession and use of the United
States under a charter-party, and delivered them thereunder, and
so remained without molestation from the claimants. On motion
of the counsel for the vessel and with the assent of the United
States attorney, it is ordered by the court that further proceedings and litigation be stayed in the above cause, to the end that
all questions of damages reserved in the decision of the court in
the term of June last, may be considered and adjusted by the government of the United States in the application, and with the concurrence of the government of Spain.
"SAM1UEL

R. BETTS."

On the 20th of May, 1870, the following letter was addressed
to the Spanish minister in Washington by the Acting Secretary

of State:
" DEPARTMENT OF STATE, Washington, Xilay 20th, 1870.
"Sin: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
note of the 5th instant in relation to the Spanish steamer Nuestra
Seiiora de Regla, and the claim which arose in consequence of her
seizure by the United States authorities in 1861.
"The District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, after deciding that the claimants were entitled
to restitution of the vessel, made an order suspending proceedings,
to the end that the question of damages might be considered and
adjusted by the government on the application and with the concurrence of that of Spain.
"Without referring to the reasons which have so long delayed
any arrangement between the two governments, I have now to say
that it will be more satisfactory to the government that the parties
interested should apply to the court, which still retains jurisdiction of the case, to obtain such further relief as justice may demand, and in the mode which that tribunal shall deem most
proper and convenient.
"I avail myself of this occasion to offer to you assurances of
my very high consideration.

"J.C.

BANCROFT DAvIs,

Acting Secretary of State."

THE NUESTRA SERORA DE REGLA.
Statement of Facts.

On the 2d of June following, the cause was referred to
one of the commissioners of the court to ascertain the amount
of damages the claimant had sustained by the seizure and detention of the vessel. The commissioner made his, report on
the 20th of May, 1871, fixing the damages for the detention at
the rate of $200 a day from lNovember 29th, 1861, to June
20th, 1863, the date of the decree foi restoration, with interest
at six per cent. per annum, amounting to $167,370.66J, and
allowing for the expenses and services of an agent remaining
with and attending to the vessel, $5,680 ; for counsel fee in defending the proceedings, $5,000, and for the value of the vessel
at the date she should have been restored, with interest added,
$36,833.331, or a total of $214,884.00. Exceptions were taken
to this report by the United States, but they were overruled,
and a decree rendered for the full amount allowed by the master,
with interest added.
From that decree an appeal was taken to ihis court, where,
at the October term, 1872, it was decided "that the vessel was
not lawful prize of war or subject to capture, and the corporation which owned her is doubtless entitled to fair indemnity for
the losses sustained by the seizure and employment of the vessel; but it may be well doubted whether it is not more properly
a subject of diplomatic adjustment than determination by the
courts." It was also said in the opinion, "the decree of the
district court included the sum of $5,000 for counsel fees. We
think that the amount was greatly excessive, and the allowance
for counsel fees wholly unwarranted." For the errors thus indicated the decree was reversed. The Yeustr Serta de legla,
17 Wall. 29. The case was then remanded for further proceedings in accordance with the opinion. On the 22d of July, 1873,
after the mandate was filed, a second reference was made to
the commissioner "to assess the damages of the claimant of the
vessel sustained by him in consequence of the seizure and detention of the vessel, and that on such reference all the proofs
already taken in the cause or before the referee be used, together
with such other proofs as may be put in by either party."
Under this reference the commissioner again reported that
the United States continued to use the vessel after she was taken
VOL. cviu-7

OCTOBER TERMI, 1882.
Argument for the United States.

possession of by the navy department, pursuant to the order
of August 22d, 1862, until the 20th of June, 1863, the date of
the decree for her restoration, and that she had never been
restored to the owners or her value paid. He therefore
allowed:
For detention from November 29th, 1861, to June
20th, 1863, 568 days, at $200 per day ......... $113,600 00
Interest at 6 per cent. to date of report...
81,698 00
For value of vessel, ascertained to be ...........
30,000 00
Interest from June 20th, 1863 ...........
21,549 00
For expenses of agent, 568 days at $10 .........
5,680 00
$252,527 00
To this report exceptions were filed on behalf of the United
States, but they were overruled by the court, and a decree
entered March 8th, 1879, for the amount found due, with interest from the date of the repbrt, or in all, $308,932.38. From
that decree this appeal was taken.
-3-1'. Assistant Attorney- General .lfauy for the United
States :-I. Argued the merits of the seizure on the facts
as now presented, and contended, on the authority of United
States v. Bank of the United States, 5 How. 382, that the
court was not concluded in the second appeal by an expression
of opinion on the first appeal as to a question which was not
then presented in the then condition of the record; and further
that the government cannot be prejudiced by the laches
of its officers in omitting to properly present the question of the
validity of the seizure at the former trial.-II. The record
shows the seizure was made for probable cause, as defined in -The
Thompson, 3 Wall. 155; 1ocke v. United States, 7 Cranch, 339.
-III. The proper parties to a judgment are not before the
court. The persons who used the authority of the government
to seize the vessel should be here in a proceeding in prize.
The -LouisaAgnes, Blatchford Prize Cases, 107; The E/eanor,
2 Wheat. 345; The .Mttagnus, 1 O. Rob. 31. Especially if a
judgment for costs is to be given against them. The
U eucatle,

THE NY-ESTRA SERORA DE REGLA.
Argument for the Appellee.

2 Spinks. 228. The soldiers who made the seizure have no interest in the prize as captors, Te Siren, 13 Wall. 389; but may
nevertheless be subjected in a prize court to damages and costs
for the seizure. lb.-IV. The court below was without authority to make a decree against the United States. Case v.
Terrell, 11 Wall. 199.-V. The demurrage was not referrible to
the capture as proximate cause, and was therefore not ground
for damages in this suit.-VI. The use of the vessel under the
charter-party was under a contract, and therefore not a ground
for judgment for damages.-VII. N7o damages should in any
event have been allowed after August, 1862.
21&. Willian Allen fButler for the appellee.-I. The
questions settled at the former hearing are no longer open
Himely v. Rose, 5 Cranch, 313 ; Skillern v. May, 6 Cranch,
267; Ex _varte ,Si2bald v. United States, 12 Pet. 488 ; The
Santa XIaria, 10 Wheat. 431; Corning v. Troy Iron and
]lTail Faetory, 15 How. 451; Supeivisors v. Xennicott, 94 U.
S. 498; Te lady Pike, 96 IT. S. 461.-i. The district court
had power to make all orders and decrees made in the case.
The Apollon, 9 Wheat. 362; The Lively, 1 Gallison, 314; Tne
Glen, ]Blatchford Prize Cases, 315 ; The Sylil,'Blatchford Prize
Cases, 615; The Siren, 7 Wall. 152; Th7e Labuan, RBlatchford
Prize Oases, 165; The Jkne Campbell, Blatchford Prize Cases
101.-III. The United States having waived objection to jurisdiction, the adjudication is final. The exercise of a jurisdiction
which exists cannot be objected to after voluntary appearance
and litigation on the merits. Rhode 7sland v. Massackusetts,
12 Pet. 657; Bangs v. ]Dukin~eld,18 N. Y. 592. A State
properly brought into the forum of litigation cannot assert
rights or immunities as incident to sovereignty. Davis v. Gray,
.16 Wall. 203.-IV. The United States is not sued in these proceedings. It comes into court voluntaxily, and forces the
vessel here. That has no analogy to a proceeding against the
United States as defendants. There are plenty of precedents
to support the decree. The Lanan and The Sybil, ubi sup.V. There was no error in respect to the award of damages.
On this point i1r.Butler referred to the Treaty of 1795, 8

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Argument for the Appellee.

Stat. 139, as showing the obligation and rights of the parties,
and cited :Roberts on Admiralty and Prize, 446; Upton on
IPrize Courts, 246; phill. Int. Law, § 449; The -Lively, 1
Gallis. 314; The Apollon, 9 Wheat. 377; The Pizarro, 2
Wheat. 227; Masse, Droit Commercial, liv. ii., ch. 2 § 2; § xi.
tom. 1, p. 310; 3 Phill. Int. Law, 41; Wheat. Int. Law
(Lawrence ed.), 512; Haver v.- Yaker, 9 Wall. 32. The rule
of damages is to measure the compensation by the freight
which the vessel was in the act of earning. Tilliamson v.
Barrett, 13 lHow. 101; The Gazelle, 2 W. Rob. 279; The
Glaucus, 1 Lowell, 366; YFantine v. The Lake, 2 Wall. Jr. 52;
The 11rarragansett,Olcott, 388; The ]?hode Island, Olcott, 505;
The XW.if. Caleb, 10 Blatchford, 467; The Stromless, 1 Lowell,
153; Whitehall Trans. Co. v. -Y T Steamboat Co., 51 N. Y.
69; 1ifailler v. Express PropellerLine, 61 N. Y. 312. Under
the circumstances complete indemnity can be given, only by
compensation for the loss of earnings as well as the loss of the
vessel. Allen v. Fox, 51 N. Y. 562; Star of India, 1 Prob. Div.
466 ; -Dermottv. Jones, 2 Wall. 1; Sturgis v. -Y J Steamboat Co.,
35 N. Y. Superior Ct. Rep. 251; S. C. on appeal, 62 N. Y. 625 ;
-Howlandv. Coflin, f7 Barb. 653. For the parallel rule at common law, see Hadley v. Baxendale, 9 Exch. 341; Phil., Wiln.
& Balt. R. 1R. Co. v. Howard, 13 Iow. 307. And the order
of the prize court of Aug. 22d, 1862, for the delivery of the
vessel to the navy department, does not affect the right of the
claimant to the whole award for demurrage up to the time of
final decree. The 3rem2 his, Blatchford, Prize Cases, 202; The
Ella TFarley, Ib. 207; -Hudson v. Guestier, 4 Cranch, 293;
Home v. Camden, 2 H. Bi. 532, and 4 T. R. 383; Willis v.
Commissioners of Prize, 5 East, 22; The iYoysomhed, 7 Yes.
Jr. 593; The Brig Louis, 5 C. Rob. 146; The Two Friends,
1 0. Rob. 271; The Eliza, 1 Acton, 336; Smart v. oylfe, 3
T. R. 323; The Pomona,1 Dodson, 25; The Peterhof,Blatchf.
Prize Case, 620; Le Cauw v. Eden, 2 Doug. 594, 610, 616;
Goss v. Withers, 2 Burr. 683, 694; The Flad Oyem, 1 C. Rob.
134; The Santa Cruz, 1 C. Rob. 49; The Fanny and Elmira,
1 Edw. Adm. 117; The Ceylon, 1 Dodson, 105.

THE NUESTRA SE9ORA DE REGLA.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WArrE

delivered the opinion of the court.

After reciting the facts as above stated he continued:
That the steamer was not lawful prize or the subject of capture was expressly decided on the former appeal. It was also
impliedly settled that the capture was without probable cause,
for it was said that the owner was undoubtedly entitled to a
fair indemnity for the losses sustained, the only difficulty being
as to the amount. These questions are, therefore, no longer
open. M/ark7 v. Heith, 106 U. S. 464; Sutervisors v. .Eennicott,
94 U. S. 499.
The first of the remaining questions to be considered is
whether a decree can be entered against the United States for
damages. As the capture was made by the army, or by the
army and navy operating together, it inured exclusively to the
benefit of the United States. There is no distribution of prize
money in such a case. Porterv. Vnited States, 106 U. S. 607;
The Siren, 13 Wall. 389. The United States were, therefore,
in legal effect the captors, and they came voluntarily into court
to secure for themselves the benefit of what had been done.
They deliberately adopted the acts of the military and naval
officers as their own, and came, as captors, to condemn their
prize. Offers to purchase the vessel were made and declined
before she was seized, and soon after the seizure she was chartered and put into actual use ivithout any attempt at securing
an adjudication. It is evident, also, that the capture must have
been the subject of diplomatic correspondence between the
government of Spain and the United States before the vessel
was brought in for adjudication, because on the 6th of May,
1862, after the vessel got to New York, and before the libel
was filed, IMr. Seward, the then secretary of State, wrote the
district attorney for the Southern District of New York, as follows:
Sm : Noticing the arrival at New York of the Spanish steamer
Nuestra Sefiora de la Regla, which was seized at Port Royal by
General Sherman for an alleged illegal breach of neutrality, I now
transmit the papers found on board of her, and an abstract of
them which I caused to be prepared and which you may find
useful."

OCTOBER- TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

Although the libel was filed on the 9th of June, 1862, and
the claim was promptly put in, the adjudication was not had
until June of the following year, when all further proceedings
were stayed with the consent of both parties to await an adjustment of damages by the two governments. Nothing further
was done until nearly seven years afterwards, when the secretary of State informed the Spanish government of the wish of
the United States that the parties interested should apply to
the court, which still retained jurisdiction, for such relief as
justice demanded, and in the mode that tribunal should deem
most proper and convenient. Thereupon, on motion of the
claimant, and with the consent of the United States district
attorney, the reference was ordered to ascertain the damages.
Under these circumstances we cannot but think the United
States have voluntarily submitted themselves to the court at
the instance of the Spanish government, and with the consent
of the claimant, for the purpose of having the questions of damages growing out of the capture judicially settled according to
the rules applicable to private persons in like cases.
It is objected, however, that the executive department of the
government had no power, in the absence of express legislative
authority, to make such a submission. It was the duty of the
United States, under the law of nations, to bring all captured
vessels into a prize court for adjudication. If that had not
been done in this instance, the Spanish government would have
had just cause of complaint, and could have demanded reparation for the wrongs that had been done one of its subjects.
The executive department had the right to bring the suit. In
that suit it had been determined that the capture was unlawful.
Necessarily, therefore, the question of damages to the owner of
the captured vessel arose. Since, without the consent of the
United States, no judgment for damages could be rendered
against them in the pending suit that could be enforced by execution, the Spanish government had the right to assume the
prosecution of the claim, and it did. Necessarily the negotiations on the part of the United States under this claim were
conducted by the executive. After long delay no agreement
was reached, and as a last resort for ending the controversy, it

THE IUESTRA SEIORA DE REGLA.
Opinion of the Court.

was determined to refer the whole matter to the court for judicial inquiry and determination. We see no reason why this
might not be done in such a case. It is true any judgment
that may be rendered cannot be judicially enforced, but the
questions to be settled are judicial in their character, and are
incidents to the suit which the United States were required to
bring to enforce their rights as captors. It is too late now to
insist that the case is not one of prize, because in the libel it is
expressly alleged that the vessel was captured as lawful prize,
and condemnation was asked on that account. When, therefore, the United States, through the executive of the nation,
waived their right to exemption from suit, and asked the prize
court to complete the adjudication of a cause which was rightfully begun in that jurisdiction, we think the government is
bound by the submission, and that it is the duty of the court
to proceed to the final determination of all the questions legitimately involved.
The next inquiry is as to the amount of damages. The duty
of a captor is to institute judicial proceedings for the condemnation of his prize without unnecessary delay, and if he fails in this
the court may, in case of restitution, decree demurrage against
him as damages. This rule is well settled. focum v. f fayberry, 2 Wheat. 1; The Aiollon', 9 Wheat. 862; I7we .£ively, 1
Gall., 314; The Corier .tMaritimo, 1 Rob. 287.
Upon the facts in this case there can be no doubt of the propriety of such an allowance for the extraordinary detention of
the vessel before she was delivered up for adjudication, especially since she was detained for the express purpose of use by
the United States. And as to the amount of the allowance,
there is no opportunity for discussion. The United States were
willing and actually contracted to pay $200 a day for her use
if she was not in fact lawful prize, and that is shown to have
been a reasonable price for her charter at the time: She was
seized on the 29th of November, and it is fair to assume that if
due diligence had been used she might have been surrendered
for adjudication by the 16th of December, when her charter
began to run. She was not actually surrendered until the 9th
of June-a delay of 175 days beyond what was necessary. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

is not disputed that her value at that time was $30,000. She
cost when built $50,000, and was new when captured. As she
has never been restored under the order to that effect, there
can be no doubt of the liability of the United States for her
value, when at their request she was delivered into their possession by the court. It is not a matter of any importance
that the certificate of deposit in the treasury of the amount of
her appraised value was not filed. By talding the vessel on the
terms imposed by the court, the United States impliedly agreed
to restore her in as good condition as she was when taken, or
pay her value in money. By the surrender bf the vessel for
adjudication, the United States relieved themselves from any
further liability for damages in the way of demurrage, and became bound for the vessel instead.
The allowance for demurrage includes reasonable compensation for the pay and expenses of an agent to look after the interests of the owners up to the time of the delivery of the
vessel to the navy department by the court. After that no
agent was necessary. From that time the case stood as though
a sale had been made and the proceeds paid into the registry
of the court.
Our conclusion is that damages should be allowed as follows:
For unnecessary and unusual delay in proceeding_ to
adjudication, 175 days at $200 .................
$35,000
For value of vessel ...............................
30,000
In all ....................................

$ 65,000

To which add interest, at the rate'of six per cent. per annum,
from the time of the order of restitution, June 20th, 1863,
until the decree.
[The decree of the district court is reversed and the cause remande with, instructionsto enter another deoree in accordance with this opinion.

