LITTLE MTIAMI &c. R.R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 277
Syllabus.

are certainly not in the same position as a party sued for the
enforcement of the original agreement.
Without pursuing the subject further, we are of opinion that
there was no evidence on this subject which ought to have been

submitted to the jury, and the court was right in withdrawing
it from their consideration.
We see no error in the record.
The judgment of the circuit court is aoffrmed.

LITTLE MIAMI & COLUMBUS & XENIA RAILROAD
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Decided April 16th, 1883.
Income Tax---ztenal Revenue-Practice-Railroads.
The provisions in the act of June 80th, 1864,13 Stat. 284, ch. 173, g 122 ; and
in the act of June 13th, 1866, 14 Stat. 139, ch. 184, ยง 9, that the profits of
a railroad company carried to the account of any fund, or used for construction shall be subject to and pay a tax, do not apply to earnings by a
railroad company which are used for construction or carried to a fund,
unless, on a rest made and balance struck for the period for which the tax
is demanded, the operations of the company show a profit. In this respect
the rule in the statute differs from that which it lays down in respect to
earnings used to pay interest or dividends, which were taxable whether
there were actual profits or not.
In'a suit to recover taxes alleged to be in arrear on the profits of a railroad
company carried to a fund or expended in construction, the burden of proof
is on the United States to show that the company earned such profits, and
that losses shown by the company were not suffered during the period,
When t~ie law is settled in the court above, but the findings show uncertainty
as to the facts on which judgment is to be based, the cause should be re"mandedfor such further proceedings to be had in the inferior court as the
justice of the ease may require.

Action to recover five per cent. tax on profits alleged to have
been carried to a fund, or expended in construction.

All the

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

material facts necessary to the comprehension of the controversy are stated in the opinion of the court.
X,r. TiMlliam aM ey for plaintiff in error.
1'. Solicitor-Generalfor the United States.
CHIEF JUSTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit begun by the United States on the 29th of
MKarch, 1875, to recover of the Little Miami and Columbus
and Xenia Railroad Company a tax of five per cent. on
alleged profits of the company "carried to the account of any
fund or used in construction," provided for by the act of June
30th, 1864, c. 173, sec. 122, 13 Stat. 284, amended by the
act of July 13th, 1866, c. 184, 14 Stat. 139. A jury was
waived and the trial had by the court. The case comes here
on a finding of facts. From this finding it appears "that during the period covered by the petition, viz., from the 1st day of
July, 1864, to the 30th day of :November, 1869, inclusive, the
defendant, in good faith, regularly made returns of earnings,
profits, income, and gains, and of profits carried to the account
of any fund, or used for construction, arising or accruing to it
during said period, intended and believed by it to embrace all
such profits, incomes and gains, and all such profits carried to
the account of any fund, or used for construction, which by law
it was bound to return; which returns were received and accepted, and for the amount of which assessments from time to
time were made of the taxes payable thereon, which taxes were
regularly paid by it to the officer lawfully authorized by law
to collect the same." In addition to this it also appears "that
over and above the amount so returned, on which taxes were
paid as aforesaid, the defendant did in fact make additional
earnings, which by it were carried to the account of some fund,
or used for construction during said period, amounting in all to
the sum of $168,707.22, on which no tax has been paid."
The finding also shows that during the year 1869 the defendant carried to the debit of profit and loss on its books, various
items amounting in all to $184,395.06. In this way the books
show no profits between July 1st, 1864, and November 30th,

M.

LITTLE MIAMI &c. R.R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 279
..

Opinion of the Court.

1869, beyond the amount on which taxes were paid in the
regular course of business. Of the sum so charged up, one
item of $51,155.44 was for loss and depreciation on book accounts and other choses in action, acquired by the company
prior to July 1st, 1864, and which had been standing on the
books until 1869 at their par value; another item of $22,000
was for the depreciation in the value of bonds purchased after
July 1st, 1864; another item of $106,014.62 was for the depreciation in the value of what was known as the "street connection track," and another item for $5,225 was for losses on a
purchase in 1867 of shares of capital stock in a cotton-press
company.
Upon these facts, so found, the company claimed that, in ascertaining the amount of profits liable to taxation, there should
be deducted from the earnings during the period for which the
tax was claimed these several items of loss and depreciation,
but the court ruled, as a matter of law, "that for the purpose
of taxation the defendant is not entitled by law to make the
deduction as claimed," and gave judgment for five per cent.
on the whole sum of $168,707.22.
In our opinion there was error in this ruling. The tax in
question is not upon earnings "carried to the account of any
fund or used for construction," but upon profits. Earnings
used to pay interest or dividends are taxable, whether actual
profits or not, but earnings used for construction, or carried to
the account of a fund, are not to be taxed, unless they represent profits of the company in its business as a whole, that is
to say, the excess of the aggregate of gains from all sources,
over the aggregate of losses. The law evidently contemplated
an annual statement of accounts, and in this way an annual
striking of balances between gains and losses. When, in such
statements, it appeared that a part of the excess of gains over
losses had been used for construction or added to some fund,
then a tax was to be paid on what had been so used or appropriated. This was part of the system adopted for the taxation of the "profits, income, or gains" of railroad corporations,
which, as was said in Railroad Company v. Collector, 100 U.
S. 595, it was the object of this statute to provide. A tax was

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

put on dividends, interest paid in the ordinary way, and }nofits
used for construction or carried to some fund. This was a
classification of the income of the corporation for the purposes
of taxation.
In the present case there has been no assessment of a tax,
but the United States have sued to recover such sum as, upon
an investigation of the accounts of the company, it shall appear
ought to have been paid. The burden of proof is upon the
government. No more can be recovered than is shown to be
'due. In presenting the evidence no attempt seems to have
been made by the United States to state annual accounts and
ascertain the amount to be paid on that basis. The court has
found that between July 1st, 1864, and November 30th, 1869,
earnings to the amount of $168,707.22 had been used for construction or carried to the account of some fund, but it has also
found that between the same dates the company lost $22,000
by depreciation in its investments in bonds, and $5,225 by depreciation in the stock of a cotton-press company. In the view
we take of the law, these sums should have been deducted from
the earnings as ascertained before fixing the amount of profits
on which the tax was to be paid. It is not stated with certainty in the finding at what dates the losses actually occurred
which are represented by the items of $51,155.44, depreciation
in the value of book accounts and choses in action, and $106,014.62, depreciation in the value of the street connection track.
For this reason we are unable to decide whether these losses,
or any part of them, should be deducted. As the omission to
make the finding sufficiently specific in this particular undoubtedly arose from the fact that the court ruled as a matter of law
that no deductions could be made on account of losses of this
character, we will remand the cause, so that further inquiry
may be had on that point. This we have authority to do under
section 701 of the Revised Statutes, which allows a cause to be
remanded for "such further proceedings to be had in the inferior court as the justice of the case may require."
The judgnent of the circuit court is reversed and the cause
remanded, with instructions to deductfrom the amount of
earnings,as ascertainedupon the former trial,the items of

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

$29,000, depreciationin the value of bonds, and $5,225, depreciation in the value of cotton-press stock, together With
such other sums included in the items of $51,155.44, depreciationin book accounts and choses in action, and $106,014.62, depreciationin value of the streetconnection track,as,
uponfurther hearing, shall be found to represent losses accruing to the company between July 1st, 1864, and iLrovember 30th, 1869, and to render judgment only for such an
amount of tax as shall appear to be due upon that basis.

WRIGHT & Others v. UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Decided April 16th, 1883.

InternalRevenue-Statutes.
When an indorsement is made upon a distiller's bond, "We hereby accept the
within survey and consider the same as binding upon us on and after this
date," which is signed by theobligees in the bond, the parties thereby waive
the delivery of a copy of the survey, and the difference between the capacity
of the still and the returns of production may be recovered in a suit on the
bond.

Suit upon a distiller's bond to recover internal revenue tax.
X2r. 1R. .tocP. Smith, for plaintiff in error.
.r. Assistant Attorney-General Xlaury for United States.
MRii. CHIEF XISTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action on a distiller's bond, to recover the difference between taxes assessed according to the producing capacity of the distillery and those calculated on the reports of
production. The defence was that a copy of the official survey
had not been served on the distillers. Section 3264 of the Revised Statutes provides for a survey of the distillery by the collector and a written report thereof in triplicate, " of which one
copy shall be delivered to the distiller, one copy shall be re-

