U. STATES v. FORTY-THREE GALS. WHISKEY.

491

Opinion of the Court.
UNITED

STATES v. FORTY-THREE
WHISKEY.

GALLONS

OF

IN ER OR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOP THE
DISTRICT OF =!LNNESOTA.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

Indians-InternalBevenue-Icense-Spirituous Liquors-Treaties.
The payment of a special internal revenue tax for selling liquors in a collection
district does not authorize the licensee to introduce or to attempt to introduce spirituous liquors or wines into Indian country in violation of the act
of June 30th, 1834, 4 Stat. 729, as amended by the act of March 15th, 1864,
18 Stat. 29, when an Indian treaty, ceding lands embraced within the

territory covered by the license, provides that the laws of the United States
then in force, or which might thereafter be enacted, prohibiting the introduction and sale of spirituous liquors in the Indian country, should be in full
force and effect throughout the country ceded, till otherwise ordered by
Congress or the President.
Same case in 93 U. S. 188, referred to.

Information and libel iii the court below of goods of one
Lariviere, seized by an Indian agent of the United States for
attempted violation of the laws forbidding the introduction and
sale of spirituous liquor in the Indian country. The case was
before the court at October term, 1816, 93 U. S. 188. The
issues that have now come for settlement, and the facts necessary to their comprehension, are fully stated in the opinion of
the court.
Xir. Assistant Attoney-General -Naury for the United
States.
.Xr. C. K. Davis for defendant in error.
Mi . JUSTICE Fmo delivered the opinion of the court.

By the treaty between the Red Lake and Pembina bands of
Chippewa Indians and the United States, concluded on the
2d of October, 1863, those Indians ceded to the United States
their right, title, and interest to certain lands owned and
claimed by them in the State of Minnesota, and the Territory
of Dakota. 13 Stat. 667. The seventh article of the treaty

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

stipulated that the laws of the United States then in force or
that might thereafter be enacted, prohibiting the introduction and sale of spirituous liquors in the Indian country, should
be in full force and effect throughout the country thereby
ceded until otherwise directed by Congress or the President of
the United States. The 20th section of the act of June 30th,
1834, entitled "An Act to regulate trade and intercourse with
the Indian tribes and to preserve peace on the frontier," 4
Stat. '729, as amended by the act of March 15th, 1864, 13
Stat. 29, was in force when this treaty was made; and it forbids any one, under certain penalties, to sell or dispose of any
spirituous liquors or wine to an Indian under the charge of an
Indian superintendent or agent; or to introduce or to attempt
to introduce them into the Indian country, unless done by
order of the War Department or of some authorized officer
under it. And the section provides for the seizure and forfeiture of liquors thus introduced and the goods and property of
the party violating the statute with which they are found.
The following is the section as amended:
"SEc. 20. And be it further enacted, That if any person shall
sell, exchange, barter, or dispose of any spirituous liquors or wine
to any Indian under the charge of any Indian superintendent or
Indian agent appointed by the United States, or shall introduce
or attempt to introduce any spirituous liquor or wine into the Indian country, such person, on conviction thereof before the proper
District or Circuit Court of the United States, shall be imprisoned
for a period not exceeding two years, and shall be fined not more
than $300: Provided, however, That it shall be a sufficient defence to any charge of introducing or attempting to introduce
liquor into the Indian country if it be proved to be done by order
of the War Department, or any officer duly authorized thereunto
by the War Department. And if any superintendent of Indian
affairs, Indian agent, or sub-agent, or commanding officer of a
military post, has reason to suspect, or is informed that any white
person or Indian is about to introduce or has introduced any
spirituous liquor or wine into the Indian country, in violation of
the provisions of this section, it shall be lawful for such superintendent, sub-agent, or commanding officer to cause the boats,

U. STATES v. FORTY-TtHREE GAlS. WHISKEY.

493

Opinion of the Court.
stores, packages, wagons, sleds, and other places of deposit of
such person to be searched ; and if any such liquor is found
therein, the same, together with the boats, teams, wagons, and
sleds used in conveying the same, and also the goods, packages,
and peltries of such person, shall be seized and delivered to the
proper officer, and shall be proceeded against by libel in the
proper court, and forfeited one-half to the informer and the other
half to the use of the United States ; and if such person be a
trader, his license shall be revoked and his bonds put in suit.
And it shall, moreover, be the duty for any person in the service of
the United States, or for any Indian, to tako and destroy any
ardent spirits or wine found in the Indian country, except such as.
may be introduced therein by the War Department. And in all
cases arising under this act Indians shall be competent witnesses."
Under this section the present libel of information was filed
in the District Court of the District of Minnesota, to enforce
the forfeiture of certain spirituous liquors, which are particularly
described, and other merchandise found with them at the time
of seizure. In one of its counts the libel sets forth that Bernard Lariviere, a white person, late of the village of Crookston,
county of Polk, and State of Minnesota, did, on the 2d of February, 1814, unlawfully carry and introduce into the country
ceded to the United States under the treaty mentionednamely, into the county of Polk, which is a part of the ceded
country-the spirituous liquors described; that such introduction was in violation of the provisions of the 20th section of the
act of Congress above quoted; that he owned, and at the time
had in his possession with the liquors, a quantity of goods,
packages, and peltries, a list of which is contained in a schedule
annexed to the libel; that an Indian agent, duly appointed,
having reason to suspect, and having been informed, that spirituous liquors had been introduced by Lariviere, caused his
stores, packages, and peltries to be searched, and there found
the liquors mentioned, which he in consequence seized, together
with the other goods. In another count the libel sets forth
substantially the same matters, with the addition that the
liquors were introduced into the country ceded with intent to

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

sell, dispose of, and distribute the same among the bands and
tribes of Chippewa Indians then under charge of the Indian
agent, and frequenting the county of Polk and village of
Crookston, and living there or near the place.
To this libel Lariviere and one Clovis Guerin appeared as
claimants of the goods seized, and demurred to the libel on the
ground that the court had no jurisdiction; that the property
was never introduced into the Indian territory, but, as
appeared by the libel, was searched and seized in an organized
county of the State of Minnesota, and hence that the seizure
was without authority of law. The demurrer thus interposed
was sustained by the district court, and judgment rendered
against the United States, and this judgment was affirmed by
the circuit court. The case was then brought to this court,
where the judgment was reversed and the cause remanded,
with directions to overrule the demurrer. Several important
legal and constitutional questions were raised on the argument
here, and it was held that Congress, under its constitutional
power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes, may not
only prohibit the introduction and sale of spirituous liquors in
the Indian country, but extend such prohibition to territory in
proximity to that occupied by Indians; that it is competent for
the United States, in the exercise of the treaty-making power,
to stipulate in a treaty with an Indian tribe that within the
territory thereby ceded the laws of the United States, then and
thereafter enacted, prohibiting the introduction and sale of
spirituous liquors in Indian country, shall be in full force and
effect until otherwise directed by Congress or the President of
the United States, and that a stipulation to that effect will
operate proprio vigore, and be binding upon the courts,
although the ceded territory is situated within an organized
county of a State. These conclusions are stated in a very clear
and able opinion by Mr. Justice Davis, United States v. 43 GalIons of ITViskey, 93 U. S. 108.
When the case went back to the district court for trial, and
the demurrer was overruled, the claimant Lariviere filed an answer to the libel containing inconsistent defences. He first denied
that he ever introduced into the ceded territory the liquors as

U. STATES v. FORTY-THREE GALS. WHISKEY.

495

Opinion of the Court.
charged, and he claimed the property, except the liquors, as his;
and as to those he disclaimed ownership. But, although denyingtheir introduction, he averred that the acts charged against
him were done under the authority of the War Department, and
that the liquors were not introduced for the purpose of sale or in
violation of any law or treaty. Re subsequently amended this
answer by adding an averment to the effect that the territory
ceded under the treaty mentioned lay within the limits of a collection district under the United States internal revenue laws;
that persons resident within it and within the county of Polk and
at the village of Crookston, engaged in the business of retailing
spirituous liquors, had been assessed and required to pay taxes
upon their business, and were thereby licensed to carry on that
business and sell spirituous liquors in that county; and that he
also had been thus assessed, taxed, and licensed as a retail
dealer, and that his license had never been revoked nor the
tax paid for the same returned. The other claimant, Guerin,
averred that the property seized, except the liquors, had been
transferred to him as collateral security for a debt, and denied
every traversable allegation in the information save the seizure
by the Indian agent. On the trial evidence was introduced by
the government tending to show that Lariviere introduced the
liquors mentioned with the intent to sell them to Indians under
the charge of the United States Indian agents, and also to show
the circumstances of the seizure. Against the objection of the
government Lariviere gave evidence of all the circumstances
touching the assessment and collection of the internal revenue
tax from him and other sellers of liquor by retail in the county
of Polk: The court charged the jury that while the mere introduction of spirituous liquors in the ceded territory was
prima facie evidence of an unlawful purpose, this evidence
wat neutralized by proof that the claimant held at the time a
receipt of the collector of internal revenue for the special tax
required to be paid by a retail liquor dealer, and hence that the
burden of proof was shifted on the government to show that
the liquors were introduced with the intent to sell them to the
Indians. It also charged that" the uncontroverted facts found
for the defence were a license to Lariviere to take liquor to

OCTOBER TERM1, 1882.
Opinion of the Cour.

Crookston and gave him the right to do so, and that, for so
doing, he was subject to no penalty under the national law."
To this charge an exception was taken. There was a verdict
for the claimant, and judgment was entered thereon that the
libel be dismissed. The case was then taken to the circuit
court and the judgment of the district court was there affirmed.
To review that judgment the case is brought here.
The only question for our consideration, as thus seen, is
whether Lariviere's payment of the special internal revenue tax
for selling liquors in the collection district embraced by the
ceded territory exempted him from the penalties of the act of
1864. We are clear that it did not. Congress never intended
to interfere with the operation of the treaty, or to sanction
the sale of liquors in any ceded territory where an express
stipulation provides that they shall not be sold. The evils resulting from the use of spirituous liquors are so many and so
appalling that the government has, from an early period of our
history, labored to prevent their introduction among the
Indians. In order more effectually to secure this result, laws
prescribing severe penalties have been enacted, and authority
has been vested in the Indian agents to arrest traffickers in
the prohibited article, and to seize and confiscate their property
found with it. It would require very clear expressions in any
general legislation to authorize the inference that Congress
purposed to depart from its long established policy in regard
to a matter of so vital importance to the peace and to the
material and moral well-being of these wards of the nation.
There is also another consideration. The laws of Congress are
always to be construed so as to conform to the provisions of a
treaty, if it be possible to do so without violence to their language. This rule operates with special force where a conflict
would lead to the abrogation of a stipulation in a treaty making
a valuable cession to the United States.
The unauthorized introduction of liquors into the ceded territory constitutes the offence, although if they were not sold or
given away, no injurious consequences would follow; but once
allow their indiscriminate or general introduction and the law
would be evaded without possibility of detection. The intro-

U. STATES v. FORTY-THREE GALS. WHISKEY.

497

Opinion of the Courb.

duction is, therefore, forbidden, unless permitted by the order
of the'War Department or of some officer authorized by it.
The establishment of the collection district, embracing the
ceded territory, whilst providing for the collection of taxes on
certain kinds of business, did not authorize, nor was it intended
to authorize, business which was otherwise specifically forbidden. The License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, do not conflict
with, but rather support this view. They merely decide that
the licenses of the United States for selling liquors and dealing
in lotteries exempted the party from the penalties of the revenue
law to which he would otherwise be subjected. They gave no
exemption from State laws or the taxes they imposed for the
business carried on. They conferred no authority by themselves to carry on any business within a State. They were in
the nature of taxes on the business which the State permitted.
The court, speaking by Chief Justice Chase, said that if the
licensed were to be regarded as giving authority to carry on
the branches of business which they licensed it might be difficult, if not impossible, to reconcile the granting of them with
the Constitution. "But," he added, "it is not necessary to regard these laws as giving such authority. So far as they relate
to trade within State limits they give none and can give none.
They simply express the purpose of the government not to
interfere by penal proceedings with the trade nominally
licensed, if the required taxes are paid. The power to tax is
not questioned, nor the power to impose penalties for non-payment of taxes. The granting of a license, therefore, must be
regarded as nothing more than a mere form of imposing a tax,
and implying nothing except thai the licensee shall be subject
to no penalties under national law if he pays it." Though
these cases are cited by the defendant, they affirm the doctrine
that the licenses under the then existing law, being designed
merely to secure the payment of taxes to the United States,
did not interfere with other legitimate regulations of business
nor sanction it where otherwise prohibited.
The case of the Cherokee Tobacco Tax, 11 Wall. 616, cannot
be treated as authority against the conclusion we have reached.
The decision only disposed of that cAse, as three of the judges
VOL. CVni-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

of the court did not sit in it and two dissented from the judgment pronounced by the other four.
It follows from the views expressed that the judgment of the
court below must be reversed and a new trial had; and
I is so o rdered.

CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE

COM-

PANY v. LUCHS.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPRE E COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUIBIA.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

Fraud--Inurance.
A and B formed a partnership with a capital of $10,000, in which each was to
contribute one-half the capital. A furnished B's moiety temporarily, and
when after some time B failed to comply with his agreement, A, in May,
1869, applied for a policy on B's life for $5,000. One of the brothers of B
had committed suicide. One of the questions asked A by the company was
as to the number of brothers of B deceased, and causes of death ; to this
A made no answer. B, in the previous February. had applied to the same
company for a policy, and in answer to the same question had replied:
"Brothers dead, one; cause of death, accident." A policy was issued on
A's application, by which the company agreed to insure the life of B for
$5,000, and to pay the money "to the assured" within 30 days after notice
of the death of B. B died in an insane asylum. Held,
1. That although by the terms of the policy the life of B was insured, the
person in whose favor it was assured was A, and that the action on the
policy was rightfully brought in his name.
2. That A had an insurable interest in B's life to the extent of the moiety of
the capital which B should have contributed to the firm, without respect
to the condition of the partnership accounts, unless his estimate of the
interest at the time of the application was made in bad faith.
8. That the failure of A to answer the question as to the suicide of B's brother
could not necessarily be imputed as a fraud; and that the concealment of
the cause of the brother's death in B's application could not be imported
into this suit and applied to defeat A's application.

Suit to recover the sum of $5,000 alleged to be assured to
the plaintiff below, and defendant in error, Luchs, on the life of
one Dillenberg. Pleas: 1st. Non debet; 2d. That the plaintiff had no insurable interest in Dillenberg's life; 3d. That the

