OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Syllabus.

claimed, no federal question is involved. The records have not
been printed, and on these motions we can look only to the
statements of counsel as they appear in the briefs. The assignment of errors has been printed in the brief for the defendants,
and the second and fifth assignments clearly present questions
of which we have jurisdiction. Whether the errors thus
assigned appear in the records we cannot on these motions, as
they are now presented, finally determine, but in the absence
of any showing to the contrary we will presume they do.
The motions to dismiss must therefore be overruled.
The questions involved are not of a character that we are indined to consider on a motion to affirm, especially before the
record is printed.
It will be time enough to consider the objections to the
assignment of errors when the cases come on for hearing.
The motions to advance the cases cannot be granted upon
the showing made.
.fotions denied.

WAPLES v. HAYS.
IN ERROR TO TIE

cCUrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Decided November 6th, 1882.

Confiscation-Mortgage- Subrogaton.
1. A mortgaged real estate in New Orleans to B. Proceedings being taken
against it under the Confiscation Acts as the property of A, B intervened.
The estate was condemned and sold to C, and the proceeds paid to B
under decree of court. After the death of A, suit was brought on behalf
of his heirs to recover possession of the property : Hreld, that C acquired
the life estate of A; that the heirs of A were entitled to recover; and that
neither the United States nor C was subrogated to the rights of B; also,
2. That under the practice of Louisiana, C could not, after going to trial on
the petition, object that it was defective by reason of not setting forth the
deed under which he claimed title.

The questions presented in this case arose on the following
facts:

WAPLES v. HAYS.
Argument for the Plaintiff in Error.

On the 7th of August, 1863, proceedings were begun in the
District Court of Louisianafor the condemnation of three lots of
ground in New Orleans seized under the act of July 17th, 1862,
12 Stat. 589, ch. 195, as the property of Harry T. Hays. The
property when seized was encumbered by a mortgage from
Hays to E. A. Bradford. On the 27th of November, 1863,
Bradford appeared in the suit in response to the monition and
filed a petition of intervention, in which, after setting up his
mortgage, he asked to have his rights recognized as superior to
the United States, and ihat the property confiscated might be
sold and the proceeds applied to the payment of what was due
to him. On the 23d of January, 1865, a sentence of condemnation was entered and a sale ordered, "the proceeds to be distributed according to law, the legal rights of the intervenors
being reserved for further action hereafter." 'An order of sale
was issued to the marshal on the same day the sentence of condemnation was granted. On the 23d of February a judgment
was entered on the intervention. of Bradford, in which it was
"ordered, adjudged, and decreed that there be a judgment in
his favor for the sum of six thousand dollars

.

.

.

. with

special mortgage upon the three lots." After this judgment
was entered, the marshal sold the property under the sentence
of condemnation to 'Waples, the plaintiff in error, for six
thousand dollars, and on the 27th of March, all the proceeds,
except what were required for the costs, charges, and taxes,
were paid over to Bradford, "in part satisfaction of his
judgment and mortgage." The United States realized nothing
from the condemnation. Harry T. Hays having died, the
present suit was brought on behalf of his children to recover
the possession of the property from Waples. Upon the trial,
the foregoing facts appearing, the court charged the jury that
the plaintiffs were entitled to a verdict. The verdict having
been rendered in accordance with the charge and a judgment
given thereon against Waples, he brought this writ of error.
XrM.Hornor for the plaintiff in error. The lien holder had
the right to appear and intervene. The Sallie 3agee, 3 Wall.
451; The Hamton, 5 Wall. 372, 375. Having intervened, he

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

was entitled to be paid out of the proceeds. -Alexander v. Jacob,
5 Martin (La.) 632. On the other hand, the United States was
bound to exhaust the property, in order to pay the mortgage.
United States v. Hawkins,4 Martin N. S. (La.) 317; i7telussen
v. Smith, 2 Wheat. 396, 425; Parsons v. TWells, 17 Mass.
419, 425. Under these circumstances, the decree of condemnation was, in fact, a judgnent of foreclosure, and left nothing in
Hays. TVallal v. 'Fan] iswick, 92 U. S. 202; Pike v. Jffassell,
94 U. S. '711; French v. Wade, 102 U. S. 132. The ancestor
having contingently alienated the land, the heirs cannot recover without first refunding the money. The pleadings preclude the defendants in error from setting up title.
I.r. Jonas and -M. Iferrick for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAIrT delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts as above, he said:
It was settled in Bigelow v. Forest, 9 Wall. 339, 350, and
IVallach v. Van 1?iswick, 92 U. S. 202, that ordinarily the
estate acquired by a purchaser of real property condemned and
sold under the confiscation act of July 17th, 1862, terminates
with the life of the'person for whose act it was seized. The
only question in the present case is whether Vaples, the purchaser, occupies a different position because of what was done
with reference to the Bradford mortgage. We think he does
not. The sale was made on the sentence of condemnation
alone. The only suit ever begun was that by the United
States to secure a condemnation under the law. Bradford intervened for the protection of his interest in what was to be
condemned. Re could not in that suit foreclose his mortgage
on the property. All he could get and all he sought to get
was payment out of the proceeds of any sale ordered in consequence of the condemnation. Ris mortgage covered the fee,
but the suit in which he intervened was in its legal effect only
to subject the property for the life of the mortgagor. He was
interested as well in what was to be condemned as in what
remained after the condemnation was exhausted. As his lien
was not condemned, his rights under it would have been
superior to the title acquired by Waples but for his application

, WAPLES v. HAYS.
Opinion of the Court.

to be paid from the proceeds. Having made his application
and got the proceeds, the interest in the land bought by
Waples was relieved from his lien, but in no other respect was
it enlarged. The only effect of the intervention was to give
Waples the title to his tenancy for the life of Hays free of the
lien of the mortgage. Whether Bradford can proceed against
the property in the hands of the heirs for the recovery of the
balance that remained due to him after the application of the
proceeds of this sale, is a question we need not consider.
Neither are the United States or Waples suhrogated to the
rights of Bradford under this mortgage. To the extent of the
proceeds actually received by Bradford his debt has been 2 aid
out of the mortgaged property. He got what he did because
of the lien given him by Hays on the fee before the cause of
forfeiture arose. This lien, it was adjudged in the condemnation suit, could not be condemned under the seizure that had
been made, and so to secure to the purchaser a title to the property for the life of Hays the proceeds of the sale were applied
to the extinguishment of the encumbrance that would otherwise have rested upon that estate for life. In this way Waples
got all the title the United States undertook to convey; that is
to say, an unencumbered right to the use and enjoyment of the
property during the life of Hays. It is true that the United
States realized no money from the sale for its own use, but
that does not alter the rights of Waples. He bought the property for the life of Hays, and that was all he bought. His
position was that of a tenant for the life of another. The death
of Hays terminated his tenancy.
On the trial the plaintiffs offered in evidence the deed under
which Hays took his title. This was objected to because it had
not been set forth in the petition, and was not attached thereto, and the lots were not described in the petition as required
by sec. 174 of the Code of Practice of Louisiana. This
objection was properly overruled. It is well established in
Louisiana that if the defendant goes to trial on a petition
defective in this particular he waives the objection. Smith v.
Blunt, 2 La. 133; Zaillon, v. Boyce, 14 La. Ann. 621.
De judgment is afflrmed.

