OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

STUCKY, Assignee of MELTER in Bankruptcyv. MASONIC
SAVINGS BANK and Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Decided March 5th, 1883.

Bankruptcy-FraudulentPreference.
A creditor, dealing with a debtor whom he may suspect to be in failing circumstances, but of which he has no sufficient evidence, may receive
payment or take security without necessarily violating the bankrupt law.
When such creditor is unwilling to trust a debtor further, or feels anxious
about his claim, the obtaining additional security, or the receiving payment of the debt is not prohibited, if the belief which the act requires is
wanting. Grant v. .NationalBank, 97 U. S. 80, approved and followed.

A.X. David T. Armstrong and Xb..1. XW.Dernbitz, for th~e
appellants.
hXr. J P. Helm and 1kr. IV. 0. )odd, for the appellees.

MR. JUSTICE M'ILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit originated in a bill in equity brought in the district
court by Stucky, as assignee of Melter, a bankrupt, against the
bank and against Jacob Krieger, Sr., for the purpose of having
two mortgages made by the bankrupt declared void, and the
real estate covered by them sold free of the lien of those mortgages. The ground of this relief is the allegation that the
mortgages were made by M1elter when insolvent, and were
preferences in contemplation of bankruptcy, void by the bankrupt law, and that, by virtue of the bankrupt proceedings commenced within two months after they were made, they are
void.
The case was decided in favor of the assignee in the district
court, but on appeal the circuit court reversed this decree and
dismissed the bill.
It is shown that both mortgages were taken to secure renewal
notes for pre-existing debts, one note and mortgage being made
to the bank directly, and the other to Mr. Krieger, who was
president of the bank, the note being indorsed by him to the
bank. They were for $6,000 each.

STUCKY v. MASONIC SAVINGS BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

The whole matter turns upon the question whether Krieger,
who acted almost alone for the bank, had reasonable ground to
believe that Melter was insolvent at the time the mortgages
were made.
The district judge, who decided that he had such reasonable
ground, does not seem to have given due weight to the principles of the case of Grant v. 7w NationalBank, decided by this
court, and reported in 97 U. S. 80, a case which was fully considered, and which has since been followed by us as a leading
one on the subject.
That case establishes the doctrine that a creditor dealing
with a debtor whom he may suspect to be in failing circumstances, but of which he has no sufficient evidence, may receive
payment or security without violating the bankrupt law. He
may be unwilling to trust him further; he may feel anxious
about his claim and have a strong desire to secure it, yet such
belief as the act requires may be wanting. Obtaining additional security or receiving payment of a debt under such circumstances is not prohibited by law.
In the case before us the testimony of Krieger himself, as
the one who best knows the strength of the suspicion, if any,
on which he acted, and what evidence was before him, must
chiefly control.
We have examined his deposition very carefully. We think
it bears the impress of candor, and it negatives the idea that he
had reasonable ground to believe Melter insolvent, or that he
actually did believe it.
I The evidence, outside of this, as to the various estimates of
the value of Melter's property and the amount of his debts,
while it shows that Melter was probably insolvent, does not
show that this was known to Melter himself or to Kreiger, or
that the latter had reasonable grounds to believe him so.
It would serve no useful purpose to give in this opinion a
full examination of all the evidence. It is sufficient to say that in
looking it all over we concur with the circuit judge, and his
decree dismissing the bill is
Affimed.

