OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

TUTTOT, Collector, v. VITI & Another.
IN

ERROL TO THE OIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
EASTERN

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Decided April 23d, 1883.

Customs Duties.
larble statues, executed by professional sculptors in the studio and under
the direction of another professional sculptor, whether from models just
made by a professional sculptor, or from antique models whose author is
unknown, are "professional productions of a statuary or of a sculptor,"
liable to a duty of only ten per cent. ad valorem, under the Revised Statutes, ยง 2504, Schedule hL

Assumpsit to recover back duties alleged to have been illegally collected on works of art.
.M'r. Solicitor-Generalfor plaintiff in error.
-Mr'. Edward Shdppen for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE. GRAY delivered the opiniori of the court.
This is an action of assumpsit to recover back an excess of
duties paid upon seven marble statues imported from Italy.
The importers contend that these statues were liable to pay a
duty of only ten per cent. ad valorem; but the collector exacted payment of fifty per cent. ad valorem.
The decision of the case turns upon the true construction of
those provisions of the Customs Act which impose upon "All
manufactures of marble, not otherwise provided for, fifty per
cent. ad valorem;" and upon "Paintings and statuary not
otherwise provided for, ten per cent. ad valorem. But the
term 'statuary,' as used in the laws now in force imposing
duties upon foreign importations, shall be understood to include
professional productions of a statuary or of a sculptor only."
Rev. Stat. ยง 2504, Schedule M.
The material facts, as found by the special verdict returned
in the circuit court, are as follows: Of the seven statues, two
were of boys, taken out and sculptured from antique original
models, the author of which is unknown. The other five

TUTTON -v. VITI.
Opinion of the Court.

statues wdre taken out and sculptured from original models,
two of angels, made by Achille de Cori, and three, representing
Summer, Autumn and Winter, made by Carlo Nicoli, both of
whom were professional sculptors of good reputation, and
who had won at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts of Carrara the prize of a government pension at Rome; and they
were the first productions from those models. All the seven
statues were executed by Giovanni Padula and Alessandro
Gemignani, professional sculptors, in the studio and under the
direction of Pietro Salada, who has been a professional sculptor
in Carrara for the last thirty-four years. The cost of the statues of the two boys was 300 lire, or $58, each; of those of- the
two angels, 690 lire, or $133.40, each ; and of those of the three
seasons, 480 lire, or $92.80, each.
Judgment was given for the plaintiffs upon the special verdict. See 14 Fed. Rep. 241. The only question presented by
the record is whether this judgment was right.
The evident intent of Congress, in putting a much lower duty
on statues which are "professional productions of a statuary
or of a sculptor" than on other "manufactures of marble," is
to encourage the importation of works of art, by distinguishing
between the productions of an artist, and those of an artisan or
mechanic; between what is donein a sculptor's studio, by his
own hand or under his eye, and what is done by workmen in a
marble shop.
In the same spirit, Congress has exempted from all duty the
importation of "paintings, statues, fountains and other works
of art," which are either "the production of American artists,"
or are "imported expressly for presentation to national institutions, or to any State, or to any municipal corporation." Rev.

Stat. ยง 2505.

There is nothing in the acts of Congress to limit the professional productions of a statuary or sculptor to those executed
by a sculptor with his own chisel from models of his own creation, and to exclude ihose made by him, or by his assistants
under his direction, from models or from completed statues of
another sculptor, or from works of art, the original author of
which is unknown. An artist's copies of antique masterpieces

OCTOBER TERAI, 1882.
Syllabus.

axe works of art of as high a gTade as those exectfted by the
same hand from original models of modern sculptors.
The instructions of the Treasury Department (pursuant to
which these duties were imposed) and the argument for the appellant proceed upon the ground that the statues were made
by men not really professional sculptors, though calling themselves such, and were not real works of art, but mere manufactures of marble by good artisans. If this court were at
liberty to consider the testimony sent up with the record, it
might perhaps not reach the conclusion at which the jury have
arrived. But the insurmountable difficulty in the way of the
appellant is that by the special verdict the jury have found in
the most explicit terms that all these statues were executed in
the studio of a professional sculptor, and under his direction, by
two other professional sculptors. These facts being conclusively settled by that verdict, the law requires that the
Judgment be affirmed.

HOWARD COUNTY v. BOONEVILLE CENTRAL
NATIONAL BANK.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Decided April 23d, 1883.

.3unicipaz Beods-airoads.
When an act of the legislature authorized a county to subscribe for stock in a
railroad or its branches, and the inhabitants of the county at legally convened meetings voted to exercise the power thus conferred, and the subscription was made, and county bonds issued therefor and exchanged for
stock in a branch of the railroad for which the subscription was made, and
the county, for a series of years, paid the interest on the bonds, and then
resisted payment solely on the ground that the road constructed was not the
road to whose stock the statute authorized the county to subscribe : Teld,
On the special finding found at the trial below, that the road is one of the
branches for which the act authorized counties to subscribe.

Action to recover on coupons of bonds issued by the county

