ARTHUR v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

ARTHUR, Collector, v. FOX and Another.
IN ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEWNTYORK.
Decided March 19th, 1883.

Customs Duties.
1. A non-enumerated article, if found to bear a substantial similitude to an
enumerated article, either in material, quality, texture, or use to which
it may be applied, is made by section 2499, Rev. Stat., liable to the duty
imposed apon the enumerated article.
2. A non-enumerated article composed of cow-hair and cotton, resembling and
used for the same purposes as an enumerated article of goats' hair and
cotton, is liable to the same duty as the latter.

Action to recover back duties claimed to have been illegally
exacted by the collector of New York.
h1. Solicitor-Generalfor the plaintiff cited Davies v. Arthur,
96 U. S. 148; Arthur v. Hermat, 96 U. S. 141; 3lurphy v.
Arnson, 96 U. S. 131.
.Xr. Edi'bin B. Smith and Stephen S. Clarke for the defendants cited Smythe v. Fisk, 23 Wall. 374; Stuart v. .axwell,
16 How. 150; Ross v. Peaselye, 2 Curtis, 499; .Xurphy v.
Arnson, 96 U. S. 131; Arthur v. Hermn, 96 U. S. 141;
Davies v. Arthur, 96 U. S. 148.
delivered the opinion of the court.
David Fox and Rose Fox, the defendants in error, imported
from Liverpool certain goods called velours, composed of cow
or calf hair, vegetable fibre, and cotton, an imitation of seal
skin, and used for manufacturing hats and caps. The goods
were not specifically enumerated in the tariff acts, but "in the
use to which they were put, and in appearance and material,
resembled manufactures of goats' hair and cotton more nearlythan any other article of commerce. The goats' hair and cotton goods are also imitations of seal skin, and all these goods
of both kinds are frequently commercially called 'seals,' and
are made to represent seal skin and are used for the pirposes
-MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WArrE

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

for which seal skin is used." The component material of chief
value in velours is cow and calf hair, and not cotton.
The provisions of the tariff acts involved in the determination
of the duties to be paid on the importation are as follows:
REV. STATS., SEC. 2504, SCHED.

A.

"Cotton braids, insertings, lace, trimming, or bobbinet, and all
other manufactures of cotton, not otherwise provided for, thirtyfive per centum ad valorem.
"SCHED.

L.

"Flannels, blankets, hats of wool, knit goods, balmorals, woolen
and worsted yarns, and all manufactures of every description composed wholly or in part of worsted, the hair of the alpaca, goat or
other like animals, except such as are composed in part of wool,
not otherwise provided for, valued at not exceeding forty cents
per pound, twenty cents per pound ; valued at above forty cents
per pound and not exceeding sixty cents per pound, thirty cents
per pound ; valued at above sixty cents per pound and not exceeding eighty cents per pound, forty cents per pound.; valued at
above eighty cents per pound, fifty cents per pound; and, in addition thereto, upon all the above-named articles, thirty-five per
centum ad valorern.
"SEc. 2499. There shall be levied, collected and paid on each
and every non-enumerated article which bears a similitude, either
in material, quality, texture, or the use to which it may be applied,
to any article enumerated in this title, as chargeable with duty, the
same rate of duty which is levied and charged on the enumerated
article which it most resembles in any of the particulars before
mentioned ;
"And if any non-enumerated article equally resembles two or
more enumerated articles, on which different rates of duty are
chargeable, there shall be levied, collected and paid on such nonenumerated article the same rate of duty as is chargeable on the
article which it resembles paying the highest duty;
"And on all articles manufactured from two or more materials
the duty shall be assessed at the highest rates at which any of its
component parts may be chargeable."

ARTHUR v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

The importers claimed that the goods were dutiable at thirtyfive per cent. ad valorem as manufactures of cotton, while the
collector exacted a duty of fifty cents per pound, and thirtyfive per cent. ad valorem on account of the similitude they bore
to manufactures composed wholly or in part of the hair of the
goat without wool. The duties were paid according to the demand of the collector, and this suit was brought to recover back
the excess of what was paid over the duty on manufactures of
cotton, that is to say, to recover back the charge of fifty cents
per pound. On the trial the circuit court instructed the jury to
find for the importers, and to reverse a judgment upon a verdict under such an instruction, this writ of error was brought.
Section 2499 of the Revised Statutes is a re-enactment of see.
20 of the act of August 30th, 1842, c. 270, 5 Stat. 565, as to
which this court said, in Stuart v. fMaxoell, 16 How.150, speaking through Mr. Justice Curtis:
"Itwas designed to afford rules to guide those employed in the
collection of revenue in certain cases likely to occur, not within'
the letter, but within the real intent and meaning of the laws imposing duties, and thus to prevent evasions of those laws. Manufacturing ingenuity and skill have become very great, and diversities may be expected to be made in fabrics adapted to the same
rules and designed to take the same places as those specifically
described by some distinctive marks, for the mere purpose of escaping from the duty imposed thereon. And it would probably be
impossible for Congress, by legislation, to keep pace with the results of these efforts of interested ingenuity. To obviate, in part
at least, the necessity of attempting to do so, this section was
enacted."
And again, p. 162:
"By providing for the principal thing, it has provided for all
other things which the law declares to be the same. It is only
upon this ground that sheer and manifest evasions can be reached.
Suppose an article is designed to serve the uses and take the place
of some article described, but some trifling or colorable change is
made in the fabric or some of its incidents. It is new in the market. No man can say he has ever seen it before, or knows it under

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

any commercial name. But it is substantially like a known article which is provided for. The law of 1842 [Rev. Stat. sec. 2499],
then declares that it is to be deemed the same, and to be charged accordingly ; that the act of 1846 (the tariff act then in force) has
provided for it under the name it resembles."
These observations may well be applied to the present case.
The goods in question are "non-enumerated."
iBut they are
substantially like a manufacture of goats' hair and cotton
which is enumerated. They are put to the same uses, look
the same, and frequently, in commerce, are called by the same
name. They are made of cotton and cow hair, and are evidently of equal quality with the manufactures of cotton and
goats' hair, because, in this case, they are charged with a duty
of fifty cents per pound, thus indicating a value of eighty
cents a pound or over, which calls for the highest duty per
pound put on the goats' hair goods. It would seem to be difficult to find a closer resemblance between two articles of
manufacture which were not identically the same.
But it is contended that if a non-enumerated " article is made
of materials, any of which are mentioned in the statute, it is
dutiable at the highest rate imposed on either of its constituents; if neither the article nor any of its component materials
is designated in the tariff, then (and then only) it is dutiable
according to its similitude in material, quality, texture, or use;
and if, in these particulars, it equally resembles two or more
enumerated articles, it pays the highest duty placed upon any
of such like articles." Such, in our opinion, is not the effect of
the statute. If an article is found not enumerated in the tariff
laws, then the first inquiry is whether it "bears a similitude,
either in material, quality, texture, or use to which it may be
applied, to any article enumerated . . . as chargeable as
with duty." If it does, and the similitude is substantial, then,
in the language of the court in Stuart v. X axwell, supra, "it
is to be deemed the same, and to be charged accordingly." In
other words, although not specifically enumerated, it is provided for under the name of the article it most resembles. If
nothing is found t6 which it bears the requisite similitude, then

ARTHTUR v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court

an inquiry is to be instituted as to its component materials,
and a duty assessed at the highest rates chargeable on any of
the materials. Any other construction would leave the law
open to evasions, which, as was also said in Stuart v. .axwell,
it was the object of this statute, enacted more than forty years
ago and kept continually in force since, to prevent.
None of the cases in this court governed by the statute in
question sustain the position of the importer. In Stuart v.
.fawwell it was not shown that the goods imported bore a
similitude to any other article, and so resort was had to their
component materials. The same is true of Arthur v. Herman,
96 1U. S. 141, where the importation was of "certain cheap
goods, the warp of which was made of cotton and the filling
or woof of cattle hair," and the only question was whether
they were to be charged at thirty-five per cent..ad valorem,
under the act of June 30th, 1864, c. 171, or at ninety per cent.
of thirty-five per cent., under the act of June 6th, 1872, c. 315.
This depended on whether cotton was "the component part of
chief value." There was no attempt to show their similitude
to any other -article, and both parties agreed that they were
dutiable as manufactures of cotton. In Muryky v. Arnson,
96 U. S. 131, the question was whether the article imported
resembled essential oil in material, quality, or texture, and the
decision was that it did not. Consequently resort was had to
the material clause of the similitude act. In F'sk v. Arthur,
103 U. S. 431, an article composed of cotton and linen, cotton
being the material of chief value and largely predominating,
was adjudged to be dutiable, under the similitude act, as a
manufacture of cotton, notwithstanding it was composed of
mixed materials, and this because "in material, quality and
texture, as well as the use to which it is to be put, it is precisely
like cotton shirtings." To say that goods.made of cow or calf
hair and cotton, which were in all respects like goods made of
goats' hair and cotton, and applied to the same uses, often
bearing the same name in commerce, were to be dutiable at
one rate as manufactures of cotton, when the goats' hair goods
were assessed at a much higher rate, "would be to encourage
evasions of the descriptive terms in the tariff laws 'by some
VOL.

cvm-9

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Statement of Facts.

trifling or colorable change in the fabric or some of its incidents.'"
In our opinion, on the case as made by the bill of exceptions,
the court erred in instructing the jury to find for the importer.
The judgment reversed, and the cause remanded,with instructions to grant a new trial.

WINCHESTER v. LOUD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIHE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Decided March 19th, 1888.

Circuit Court-Removal of Causes.
.Hyde v. Ruble, 104 U. S. 407, that "a suit cannot be removed from a State
court to the circuit court unless either all the parties on one side of the
controversy are citizens of different States from those on the other side, or
there is in such suit a separable controversy wholly between some of the
parties, who are citizens of different States which can be fully determined
as between them" adhered to.

This was a suit in equity, begun in a State court of Michigan,
by Henry M . Loud, the appellee, a citizen of Michigan, against
Charles Winchester and Herbert F. Whiting, citizens of Massachusetts, and George E. Wasey, Henry N. Loud, and Aaron
F. Gay, citizens of Michigan, and removed to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan at
the instance of the defendant Winchester, on the ground, as
stated in the petition for removal, "that the principal controversy in said suit is wholly between said plaintiff (Henry M.
Loud), and your petitioner (Winchester), who are citizens of
different States, and which controversy can be fully determined as between them, and that your petitioner is actually
interested in said controversy." When the copy of the record
was filed in the circuit court, that court remanded the suit to
the State court. From that order this appeal was taken.
Mr. S.

.

Cutcheon, for the appellant, after explaining at

