Dec. 1869.]

ALViSo V. -UNITED STATES.

837

Statement of the case.

subject to his payment of part, oil the whole amount, of the
damages recovered. Indeed, the weight of the proofs is,
that he has bound himself to keep his co-defendants harmless.
The motion to dismiss the case, for the reasons above
given, must be

GRANTED.

ALVISo V. UNITED STATES.
1. Where a Mexican grant of land in California designates the land granted
by a particular name, and specifies-the quantity, but does not give any
boundaries, the grantee is entitled to the quantity specified within the
limits of his settlement and possession, if that amount can be obtained
without encroachment upbn the prior rights of adjoining proprietors.
2. When the evidence upon a boundary line, between two Mexican grants,
is conflicting and irreconcilable, this court will not interfere with the
decision of the court below.
8.. Parties not claiming under the United States, who are allowed to intervene in proceedings of the District Court to correctsurveys of Mexican
land grants in California, under the act of June 14th, 1860, must claim
under cessions of the former Mexican government. The order of the
District Court, allowing a party thus claiming to intervene, is a determination that he possesses such interest derived froni that government
as to entitle him to contest the survey; and objection to-his intervention, on the ground that he possesses no such interest, cannot be taken
for the first time in this court.
4. The United States cannot object to the correctness of a boundary line in
an approved survey, if they have not appealed from the decree approving the survey..

Tnis was an appeal from a decree of the District Court of
California, approving a survey of a confirmed Mexican land
claim. There were two grants issued by the Mexican government to the claimant.
The original grant, issued in September, 1835, described
the land ceded as known by the name of Milpitas, and as
being one league in length, from north to south, and onehalf a league in width, from east to west, and being in
extent equal to half a square league, as shown by the accompanying map. The second grant, issued in October following,
VOL. VIIL

22

AtLVISO V. UNITED STATES.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

added a half league to the-original quantity on the west, so
as to make the entire tract ceded a square league. The
second of these title-papers, merely adding to the quantity
originally granted, the two are spoken of in the opinion, as
constituting one concession or grant.
Neither of the title-papers gave any boundaries of the
land, or referred to any documents by which the boundaries
could be ascertained, except the map mentioned. This map
was a rude and imperfect sketch, indicating only the general
locality of the land, without fixing, with any precision, its
exterior limits.
The decree of the District Court upon the claini of the
grantee did not give the boundaries of the claim. It adjudged
th claim to be valid, to the extent and quantity of one
square league, provided that quantity be contained "within
the boundaries called for in the grants," and the map to
which they referred; and if there were less than that quantity, then the confirmation was to be restricted accordingly.
But no boundaries were, in fact, stated in the grants. The
decree also declared the tract confirmed to be the land
"of which the possession was proved to have been long enjoyed" by the claimant. The proof here mentioned, only
showed that the claimant had been, for many years, in
possession of some of the land granted to him, without mentioning any boundaries of the land, or indicating that any
were established.
Three surveys of the claim were made by different surveyors, and submitted to the District Court for examination
and approval; and in relation to each of them, testimony
was taken and counsel were beard, either upon the intervention of the United States, or of the clainiant, or of adjoining
proprietors.
The first two surveys were set aside, and the questions
presented arose upon the third survey. One Higuera owned
a tract on the north, and it appeared, from the evidence, that
the boundary line between him and Alviso, at one time in
dispute, was settled and fixed, under the Mexican government. On the west, one White owned a tract, as contirmee

Dec. 1869.]

ALviso V. UNITED STATE.
Opinion of the court.

of a grant known as .Rinconde los .Esteros,and a creek, known
as Penctencia Creek, was the boundary between him and
Alviso. The questions on this case related to the southern
boundary of the tract of the claimant, and upon this the
evidence was conflicting and irreconcilable. One Berrysea
claimed the land on the south; and he intervened in the
proceedings upon the survey in the District Court, by leave
of the court. In his petition for permission to intervene,
be alleged that he was the owner of the rancho on the south
of the claim of the claimant, as surveyed under title derived
from the Mexican government; that the creek Milpitas was
the boundary between his rancho and the rancho confirmed
to the claimant, and that the survey of the claimant's
claim included about fifteen or eighteen hundred acres of
land belonging to him. There was no other evidence in-the
record that Berrysea had any grant.
The appeal was by the claimant.
Mr. .Bradleyfor the appellant; Mr. Wills,-contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
In the case of iiguerasv. United States,* this court speaks
of concessions or grants of public lands, made by Mexican
governors, as being of three kinds: 1st. Grants by specific
boundaries, where the donee was entitled to the entire
tract; 2d. Grants by quantity, as of one or more leagues of
land situated in a larger tract, described by out-boundaries,
where the donee was entitled only to the quantity specified;
and 3d. Grants of a certain place or rancho by some particu.
lar name, either with or without specific boundaries, where
the donee was entitled to the tract, according to the boundaries, if given, and if not given, according to the limits of
the tract, as shown by the proofs of settlement and possession.
The grant in the case before us, partakes of the two latter
classes. It is a grant by quantity, and the claimant is en*5

Wallace, 827.

ALVISO V. UNITED STATES.

[-Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

titled to the amount specified, if that amount can be obtained
without encroachment upon the prior rights of adjoining
proprietors. It is also a grant of a certain place by name,
and as the boundaries are not given, its extent and limits
must be shown by the settlement and possession of the
grantee.
The correctness of the ruling of the court in setting aside
the first survey is not questioned; and the appellant himself
united with adjoining proprietors in excepting to the second
survey. The testimony taken established, with sufficient
distinctness, the northern and western boundaries, as fixed by
the third and approved survey. It showed that the northern
boundary, between Alviso and Iligueras-at one time, a matter of dispute between them-was settled and fixed under the
Mexican government, and that the Penetencia Creek was the
dividing line on the west, between Alviso and White, the confirmee of the grant of Rincon de los Esteros.
But as to the southern boundary-the boundary between
Alviso and Berrysea-the testimony was conflicting and unsatisfactory. Indeed, it is impossible to reconcile the different
statements of the witnesses as to the extent of the occupation of either party, south of Milpitas Creek. Some of them
testified that the possession of Alviso extended far south of
it, whilst others asserted that the creek itself was recognized,
both by him and Berrysea, as the boundary between them.
The contradictions are so flat that the counsel of the appellant is forced to state that the mind is left in uncertainty
whether there was any exclusive occupation of the land by
either of the parties. Under these circumstances, there
being great doubt as to which side the weight of evidence
inclines, we should not be justified, under any rules governing our action upon such cases, in interfering with the decision of the District Court.
The counsel of the appellant objects that there is no evidence in the record that Berrysea had any grant, or if he
had any, that it was ever confirmed, and insists that no
weight should therefore be given to his possession against
the claim of the appellant. This objection cannot be made

Dec. 1869.]

ALvISo V. UNITED STATES.

841

Opinion of the court.

for the first time in this court. The right of Berrysea to
contest the survey originally made, and the nature of his
interest, were determined by the District Court on his application to intervene. The act of June 14th, 1860, provides
for the return into court of surveys for examination and adjudication upon the application of parties who, in the judgment of the District Court or judge, have such interest in
the survey and location as to render it proper for them to
intervene for its protection. It enacts that where objections
are advanced by the United States, the application shall be
made by the district attorney, and be "founded on sufficient
affidavits," and that when the application is made by "other
parties'claiming to be interested in, or that their rights are
affected" by the survey and location, there shall be a preliminary examination into the fact and nature of such alleged
interest. "The court or judge in vacation," says the statute,
"shall proceed summarily, on affidavits or otherwise, to
inquire into the fact of such interest, and shall, in its discretion, determine whether the applicant has such an interest
therein as, under the circumstances of the case, to make it
proper that he should be heard in opposition to the survey,
and shall grant or refuse the order to return the survey and
location as slall be just." When the interest of the applicant is shown and the order is made, those who claim under
the United States, whether by "pre-emptioi! settlement or
other right or title," must intervene in the name of the
United States, and be represented by the district attorney
and counsel employed by them acting with him.

All other

parties not claiming under the United States and allowed to
intervene, must necessarily claim under cessions more or
less perfect of the former Mexican government. In the case
at bar, when the original survey was made, Berrysea applied
for and obtained an order for its return into court. In his
petition he set forth that he was the owner of the rancho
south of the claim surveyed, under title derived from the
M exica'n government, that the creek Milpitas was the boundary between his rancho and the raucho confirmed, and that
the survey included about fifteen or eighteen hundred acres

842

EXPRESS COMPANY V. -KOUNTZE BROTHERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

of land belonging to him. The order of the court made
thereon necessarily involved under the statute a determination that he possessed such interest, derived from the former
government, as to render it proper that lie should be heard
in opposition to the survey. His right to contest the survey,
founded upon the interest alleged, was then settled. The
claimant might, perhaps, have subsequently insisted that the
intervenxor had no such interest as to give him a right to object to the survey, and have asked on that ground for a
revocation of the order. But not having taken any such
course, he cannot now object to the position of the intervenor
as a contestant. As contestant, the intervenor could, of
course, show his own occupation of the land in dispute to
meet and overthrow the pretensions of the claimant founded
upon his asserted possession of the premises.
As to the eastern boundary of the approved survey, we
are not entirely satisfied that it is correct. There is much
force in the position that this boundary should run along the
base of the hills, and not embrace any portion of their sides.
But the United States, who might have interposed an objection of thib character, have not appealed from the decree approving the survey in its present form. They cannot, therefore, raise any objection to its correctness now.*
Upon the whole case, we are satisfied that the survey approved, is as favorable to the appellant as any which the
evidence would justify. The decree sustaining that survey
must therefore be
AFFIRMED.

EXPRESS COMPANY V. KOUNTZE BROTHERS.
1. The act of February 22d, 1848, which enacts that the provisions of the
act of February 22d, 1847, transferring to the District Courts of the
United States, cases of Federal character and jurisdiction begun in the
territorial courts of certain Territories of the United States, and then
admitted to the Union (none of which, on their admission as States,
* Fossat Case, 2 Wallace, 649.

