:Dec. 1868.],

THE

EAGLE.

Syllabus.

lent misrepresentations of the decedent. A demurrer was interposed in the court below (Erskine, T., presiding), and being
sustained, the bill was dismissed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of this court, to
the effect, that the vendor whose lien was set up not having been
made a party, and there not being any allegations of notice to
the grantor of the complainant, of the alleged lien for purchasemoney, no ground of relief was shown by the bill as to this lien.
And that upon the principles of Thorington v. Smith, just
preceding, the fact that the land was sold for Confederate notes,
did not, in the absence of all averment that the complainant
was induced to take them by fraudulent misrepresentations of
the decedent, afford ground for the interposition of a court of
AFFIRMED.
equity. The decree was accordingly

THE EAGLE.
1. Since the decision (A. D. 1851) in the Genesee Chief (12 Howard, 443),
which decided that admiralty jurisdiction was not limited in this country to tide waters, but extended to the lakes and the waters connecting
them ; the previous act of 1845 (5 Stat. at Large, 726), entitled "An
act extending the jurisdiction of the District Courts to certain cases upon
the lakes and navigable waters connecting the same," and which went
on the assumption (declared in the Genesee Chief to be a false one) that
the jurisdiction of the admiralty was limited to tide waters, has become
inoperative and ineffectual, with the exception of the clause which gives
to either party the right of trial by jury when requested. The District
Courts, upon whom the admiralty jurisdiction was exclusively conferred
by the Judiciary Act of 1789, can, therefore, take cognizance of all civil
causes of admiralty jurisdiction upon the lakes and waters connecting
them, the ,ame as upon the high seas, bays, and rivers navigable from
the sea.
2. The court observes also, that from the reasons given why the act of 1845
has become inoperative, the clause (italicized in the lines below of this
paragraph) in the ninth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which
confers exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty
jurisdiction upon the District Courts, "including all seizures under laws
of impost, navigation,or trade of the United States,where the seizures are
made on waters which are navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more
tons burden, within their respectivedistricts, as well as upon the high seas,"
is equally inoperative.

THm

EAGLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of

Michigan.

The case being thus:

1. The Constitution declares that the power of the Federal courts shall extend to "all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction." And the Judiciary Act of 1789 gives to
all the District Courts "exclasive original cognizance of all civil
causes of admiraltyand maritimejurisdiction, including all seizures under laws of impost, navigation, or trade of the United
States, where the seizures are made on waters which are
navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more tons burden,
within their respective districts, as well as upon the high
seas."
At the time when this act of 1789 was passed, admiralty
jurisdiction, according to the idbas then generally entertained by both courts and bar, could be exercised only upon
waters within the ebb and flow of the tide.* Accordingly
in 1845, Congress, by a statute,t entitled "An act extending
the jurisdiction of the District Courts to certain cases upon
the lakes and navigable waters connecting the same," enacted thus:
The District Courts of the United States shall have, possess,
and exercise the same jurisdiction in "matters of contract and
tort, arising in, upon, or concerning steamboats and other vessels of twenty tons burden and upwards, enrolled and licensed
for the coasting trade, and employed in the business of commerce
and navigation between ports and places in divers States and
Territories, utpon the lakes and the navigable waters connecting
the same, as is now possessed and exercised by the said courts
in cases of the like steamboats and other vessels employed in
navigation and commerce on the high seas."
About six years after this statute was passed, the case of
The Genesee Chieft came before this court. And in that
case it was decided that the impression that admiralty jurisdiction in this country was limited to tide waters was a mis* The Thomas Jefferson, 10 Wheaton, 428; The Steamboat Orleans, 11
Peters, 175.
t 5 Stat. at Large, 726.
$ 12 Howard, 443.

:Dec. 1868.]

THEn EAGLE.
Statement of the case.

take, and that the lakes and waters connecting them were
within it.
After this decision, the language of certain cases* seemed
to indicate that the act of 1845 was to be regarded as limiting the exercise of this jurisdicti6n to those cases in which
the act.had meant, by way of extending the jurisdiction, to
grant it.
In this state of statutory law and of judicial remark upon
it, the tug Eagle, in September, 1864, was towing a brig and
a barge from the head of the St. Clair River through the
Detroit River; the brig being on her way from Saginaw,
in Michigan, to Buffalo, in New York. The tug, getting a
mile or so over the line which separates the British side of
the river from ours, and out of the usual course of navigation, was sailing in shoal water, when the brig grounded and
the barge, which was attached to her, ran into, her stern and
seriously damaged her. Thereupon the owliers of the brig
filed a libel in the District Court for Eastern Michigan, "in
a cause of collision" against both tug and barge. It set
forth that the brig was "a vessel of twenty tons and upwards,
duly enrolled and licensed at the port of Buffalo, State of
1ew York, and used in navigating the waters of the Northwestern lakes and the rivers connecting said lakes, and engaged in the business of commerce and navigation thereupon." And also that the tug and barge were also both
"vessels of more than twenty tons burden, enrolled and
licensed for the coasting trade, and used in navigating the
waters of this State and the adjoining States, and now lying,
or soon will be, at the port of Detroit, and within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of this court."
The answers denied knowledge of these facts stated about
the brig, and called for proof, but admitted the tug and
barge to be enrolled and licensed.
The answer for the barge further laid the whole blame
on the tug, asserting that the sole cause of the disaster was
Ex. gr. Allen v. Newberry, 21 Howard, 245; M1aguire v. Card, lb. 248;
The Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wallace, 556.
VOL. VIII.

2

THE EAGLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

her going out of the proper course of navigation ; while the
answer for the tug stated there was no fault with ,er, and
denied that the libellants had any claim " enforceable in this
court sitting in admiralty for said alleged damage."
Two questions were thuts raised : the first, of met-its; the
second, of jurisdiction. The District Court dismissed the
libel as to the barge and condemned the tug. This decree
being confirmed by the Circuit Court, the case cnie here
on appeal, where the question of merits was briefly urged,
the point of jurisdiction being really the only question. It
was admitted, that by the law of Canada, where this damage
was done, no lien or any action exists against a wrongdoing
vessel, or anly right or lien in rein.
Mr1,-.
Xeiwberry, for the tug, appellant:
1. This is an action fbr a tort, not one on contract; and
the tort was committed in Canada. Confessedly the Canadian law gives no lien. It can exist only under our laws.
But the laws of the United States can have no extra-territorial operation. Neither, if the vessel was out of our jurisdiction when the tort was committed, can a lien arise by her
coming into our lines. An admiralty lien subsists from the
moment the claim arises, or subsists not at all. It is a right
in the thii g, jus in re, and not jus ad ren; and attaches by
operation of then existing law. If there is no such law in
force at the time and place of the damage done, no lien can
attach. Indeed, the rights of the pal-ties must, inl
all cases,
especially in actions of tort, depend upon the law of the place
where the alleged rights accrued. In Smith v. (oiidry,. two
American vessels collided in the port of Liverpool. The
defence set up certain rights of parties under the law of the
place of collision. This defence was sustained, and the court
held, "that when a collision occurs in an English port, the
rights of the parties depend on the law in force at that place."
2. In addition to these points of general law, it -should be
noted that neither the tug, brig, or barge had the proper
1 Howard, 28.

Dec. 1868.]

THE

EAGLE.

Opinion of the court.

characteristics to bring them within the act of 1845. In The
Genesee Chief, Taney, C. J., speaking for the court, states
that the general jurisdiction of admiralty was limited by the
act of 1845. Ia Allen v. .Vewberry,* Nelson, 3., speaking
also for the court, says, that "the act confines the jurisdiction to cases mentioned in it." And in The Hine v. Trevor,t
Miller, J., says, that the jurisdiction on the lakes and waters
connecting them is governed by that statute, though he said
that it was not so, as was often erroneously thought in the
West, upon the rivers. Now the libel, while alleging that
the tug was "enrolled and licensed" at the time of the libel
filed, does not allege that she was so "for the coasting trade,"
or enrolled and licensed at all when the damage occurred.
Nor is there proof that the tug was enrolled and licensed for
the "coasting trade;" nor that she was employed in the
business of commerce and navigation between ports and
places in different states and territories, &c., "at the time,"
&c., or indeed at any time. There is no proof on that subject. The burden of proof is on the libellant to prove the
alleged facts. On the other hand, the tug was a tow-boat,
towing obviously from the lower end of Lake Huron to the
upper end of Lake Erie. Both termini are within the waters
of the State of Michigan, and such employment did not require the tu to go into the waters of any other State than
Michigan. She was clearly, as to her occupation, within
the case of Allen v. Newvberry.j
Mr. G. B. Hibbert, contra, submitted an able brief, presenting with learning and force much the same views as are
presented by the court; a brief of Mr. W. A. Moore being
also filed.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
On the question of merits we concur with the conclusion
of the courts below. We.shall only examine the questions
of law.
The summary of them, as stated by the learned counsel,
*21 Howard, 246.

t- 4 W~allace, 556.

$ 21 Howard, 246.

TRE EAGLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

is (1) There is no law in force in the Province of Canada,
the place where the tort was committed, that gives a lien
upon the vessel for the alleged damages; (2) The laws of
the United States have no extra-territorial force in a foreign
territory to create a lien; and (3)The admiralty lien is a
right in the thing-us in re, and not jus ad rem-and the
lien must depend upon the law of the place where the
alleged right occurred.
It is apparent from the grounds upon which the learned
counsel has placed his claim to a reversal of the decree
below, that he has entirely misapprehended the scope and
effect of the decision of this court in the case of The Genesee Chief,* and the several cases following itt
The leading case obliterated the limit, that had been previously adopted and enforced in the jurisdiction in admiralty,
to tide-waters; and held that, according to the true construction of the grant in the Constitution, it extended to all public
navigable waters, whether influenced by the tide or not. The
Chief Justice, in delivering the opinion, observes: "It is evident that a definition (of the grant in the Constitution) that
would, at this day, limit public rivers in this country to tidewater rivers, is utterlyinadmissible. We have thousands of
miles of public navigable waters, including lakes and rivers,
in which there is no tide; and, certainly, there can be no
reason for admiralty power over a public tide-water, which
does not apply with equal force to any other public waters
used for commercial purposes and foreign trade. The lakes,
and the waters connecting them, he observes, are undoubtedly
public waters, and we think are within the grant of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction in the Constitution of the
United States."
It follows, as a necessary consequence of this interpretation of the grant in that instrument, the District Courts,
upon whom the admiralty jurisdiction was exclusively conferred by the Judiciary Act of 1789, can take cognizance of
12 Howard, 443.
- Jackson v. The Magnolia, 20 lb. 296; and The Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wallace, 655.

THE EAGLE.

Dec. 1868.]

-

Opinion of the court.

all civil causes of admiralty jurisdiction upon the lakes,
and waters connecting them, the same as upon the high
seas, bays, and rivers navigable from the sea. These waters
fall within the same category, and are subject to the same
jurisdiction, and hence the circumstance that a portion of
them lie within the limits of another sovereignty constitutes
no objection to the exercise of this power. Before the limit
of tide-water was removed by the judgment in the case of
The Genesee Chief, this jurisdiction was constantly exercised
in cases of marine torts upon the high seas, bays, and rivers
in which the tide ebbed and flowed, occurring in any part
of the world, and, in respect to which an American ship
was concerned; and, since that judgment, occurring upon
any bay or public river as far as navigable, irrespective of
the tide.
Since the recent acts of Parliament, in England, removing
the ancient restrictions by the common law courts upon the
admiralty jurisdiction, it seems to be exercised as freely and
broadly as in this country. The case of The -Diana*arose
out of a collision on the great Holland Canal in 1862. An
exception was taken to that jurisdiction founded upon the
old objection, but was overruled by Dr. Lushington. So,
in the case of The Courier,t which was a collision on the Rio
Grande, in foreign waters. And The Griefswald the same.1
It is insisted, however, that, if the court will take jurisdiction for a collision occurring on foreign waters, and within
foreign territory; the local law of the place of collision should
govern; and hence, the law of Canada in the present case;
and Smith et at. v. Conary, in this court, is cited as an authority
for the doctrine. The collision in that case occurred in the
port of Liverpool, while the vessel of the defendant was
coming out. The defendant set up in defence, that by the
statute law of England he was compulsorily obliged to take
on board of his ship a Liverpool pilot, which he did; that she
was exclusively in his charge when the accident occurred;)
and that this.lkw, as construed by the courts of England,:
*1

Lushington, 539.

t 1b. 541.

$ Swabia, 430.

THE EAGLE.

[Slip. Ct

Opinion of the court.

excused the owner and master of the vessel; and this was
agreed to by the court, and applied to the case, the Chief
Justice giving the opinion. All vessels entering into, or
departing friom, a domestic or foreign port, are bound to
obey the laws and well-known usages of the port, and are
subject to seizure and penalties for disobedience; and when
submitting to them, they are entitled to all the protection
which they affird. The same question was recently before
Dr. Lushington in the case of a collision between the
American ship Annapolis and a Prussian barque, at the
same port, and the American ship was discharged on the
ground as in the case above cited.: These are exceptional
cases, and furnished no rule to the court below for the trial
of the collision in question. It was tried there, as it should
have been tried, according to the practice and principles of
the courts of admiralty in this country, wholly irrespective
of any local law.
An objection is also taken, that the case was not brought
within the requirements of the act of 1845, so as to give the
District Court jurisdiction-that is, it was not shown that the
vessels were of the burden of twenty tons and upwards, or
enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade, or employed, at
the time, in the business of commerce and navigation between ports and places in different States.
These facts were substantially set forth in the libel, and
the answers did not set up any specific exception on this
ground, nor does it seem to have been taken by the respondents at all in the progress of the trial below. The objection,
we think, untenable.
This act of 1845, as is apparent from several of the cases
before the district courts whose districts lie contiguous to
the lakes, has occasioned a good deal of embarrassment in
administering their admiralty jurisdiction since the decision
in the case of T/e Genesee Chief. It is quite clear, under
this decision, in the absence of that act, the district courts
would possess general jurisdiction in admiralty over the
* 1 Lushington, 295.

Dec. 1868.]

THE EAGLE.
Opinion of the court.

lakes, and the waters connecting tlem; and, hence, there
would be no more difficulty in the administration of the
law than in cases upon the high seas, or bays, or rivers
navigable from the sea.
At the time it was passed, tide-water was the limit of admiralty jurisdiction, and the act was intended to remove this
restriction upon the court, as it respected these lakes, and to
extend the jurisdiction to them, thereby making these waters
an exception as to the tide-water limit. The power conferred
by the act, however, was not that of general admiralty jurisdiction, but was limited to cases of "contract and tort, arising
in, upon, or concerning steamboats, and other vessels, of
twenty tons burden and upwards, enrolled and licensed for
the coasting trade, and at the time employed in the business
of commerce and navigation between ports and places of different States." The better opinion, we think, is, that the act
does not embrace, but necessarily excludes, cases of prize.
These are neither cases of contract or tort, and the vessels
engaged in making the seizure, as prize of war, which are
ships of the navy, or privateers, are not employed at the
time, in the business of commerce and navigation. We
think it also a matter of grave doubt if the act confers jurisdiction in cases of salvage, jettison, or general average.
These (are not matters of contract, according to the most
emineiht commentators on the subject,* and they certainly
are not cases of tort.
One question, and a very important one, is, whether, since
the decision of The Genesee Chief, which opens the lakes and
the waters connecting them to the general jurisdiction of the
district courts in admiralty, they can entertain this jurisdiction in cases outside of that conferred by this act? If the
affirmative of this question should be sustained, although
the system would be disjointed and incongruous, yet it
would, in its result, remedy most of the difficulties and inconveniences now existing. But the opinions of the judges
of this court, as expressed in several cases, though the ques1 Story's Equity Jurisprudence, 490; 3 Rent, p. 246.

TijE EAGLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tion has never been directly before the court for decision,
are, that the act should be regarded as restrictive of the
general jurisdiction of these courts. This was the opinion
expressed by the Chief Justice in the case of The Genesee
Chief, and has been followed by other justices in this court,
who have had occasion to express any opinion in the subject.
The history and operation of this act of 1845, are peculiar.
It is "'an act extending the jurisdiction of the district
courts to certain cases upon the lakes and navigable waters
connecting the same." At the time it was enacted it had
the effect expressed and intended, and so continued for
some seven years, when the case of The Genesee Chief was
decided. From that timne, its effect ceased as an enabling
act; and has been no longer regarded as such. It is no
longer considered by this court as conferring any jurisdiction in admiralty upon the district courts over the lakes, or
the waters connecting them. That is regarded as having
been conferred by the grant of general admiralty jurisdiction by the ninth section of the act of 1789 to these courts.
The original purpose of the act, therefore, has ceased, and
is of no effect; and, in order to give it any, instead of construing it as extending the jurisdiction in admiralty, it must
be construed as limiting it-the very reverse of its object
and intent, as expressed on its fhce.
In the case of The -Hinev. Trcror,* it is said by the learned
Justice, in delivering the opinion of the court, that the jurisdiction in admiralty on the Western rivers did not depend
on the act of 1845, but was given by the original act of 1789;
and he intimated further, that the jurisdiction on the lakes
was also founded on this act, though governed in its exercise
by the act of 1845. The case then before the court did not
arise on the lakes, but on the Mississippi River; and the remarks made in respect to the jurisdiction upon the lakes,
was in answer to an impression very general, as is said,
among the profession in that section of the country, and
even of the learned Judge whose judgment the court was
4 Wallace, 556.

Dec. 1868.]

THE EAGLE.
Opinion of the court.

reviewing, that- the jurisdiction upon the rivers depended
on this act of 1845. That case, not at all involving the
question of jurisdiction upon the lakes, but simply upon the
interior rivers, did not receive that full deliberation in respect
to this question, which, in the present case, is called for. We
have now examined it with care, and given to it our best consideration, and are satisfied, that since the decision of the case
of The Genesee Chief, the court must regard the district cohrts
as having conferred upon them a general jurisdiction in admiralty upon the lakes and the waters connecting them, by
the ninth section of the original act of 1789; and the enabling act of 1845, therefore, has become inoperative and ineffectual as a grant of jurisdiction; and, as it was an act,
on the face of it, and as intended, in its purpose and effect,
to extend the admiralty jurisdiction to these waters, we cannot, without utterly disregarding this purpose and intent,
give effect to -it as a limitation or restriction upon it. We
must, therefore, regard it as obsolete and of no effect, with
the exception of the clause which gives to either party the
right of trial by jury when requested, which is rather a
mode of exercising jurisdiction than any substantial part of
it. The saving clause in this act, as to the concurrent
remedy at common law, is, in effect, the same as in the act
of 1789, and is, therefore, of necessity, useless and of no
effect.*
The ninth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 confers exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty
jurisdiction upon the district courts, "including all seizures
under laws of impost, navigation, or trade of the United States,
where the seizures are made on waters which are navigable from
the sea by vessels of ten or more tons burden, within their respective districts,as well as upon the high seas."
When this clause first came under the consideration of the
courts, there was a good deal of difficulty in determining
whether the words, including all seizures, &c., were intended
as being comprehended within the grant of general admiralty
* See The Belfast, 7 Wallace, 624, 644.

THIE EAGLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

jurisdiction, or as, simply, within the cognizance of the district courts, as the words were ambiguous, and might be
construed as either within the cognizance of the district
courts or within the class of cases of general admiralty jurisdiction. The difference was material ; as if not within the
general admiralty jurisdiction, the parties were entitled to a
trial byjury; otherwise not. This question was first decided
in the case of the United Slates v. La Vengeance,* the court
holding that the cases were included withiu the general admiralty jurisdiction. The point was contested in several
subsequent cases, but the court adhered firmly to its first
decision.t The act, notwithstandin' these decisions, was
still effectual and necessary to sustain the general jurisdiction,
as the limit of tide-waters then prevailed in the admiralty
courts, and the jurisdiction given by the act extended to
waters which were navigable from the sea, irrespective of
the tide. The seizures, also, in many instances, would be
made within the body of a county-ifra corpus comitalswithin which the admiralty jurisdiction was not yet admitted. ( Waring v. Clarke, 5 How., 441.)
But since the decision in the case of The Genesee Chief,
this clause, above recited, is no longer of any force. The
general jurisdiction in admiralty exists without regard to it;
and if any effect should be given, instead of extending, as
was intended, it would restrict it; and, for the reason given
in respect to the act of 1845, it has become useless and of no
effect.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS AND INTEREST.

* 3 Dallas, 297.

t The Sally, 2 Cranch, 406; The Betsey, 4 Id. 443; The Samuel, 1
Wheaton, 9; lb. 20; The Sarah, 8 Id. 391.

