Dec. 1869.]

VEAZE BANK v. FENNO.
Syllabus.

of the parties, and of their record, and the production of,
the record of partition, and of the probated will of John B.
fJames, there could only be two matters of inquiry: one
respecting the identity of the heirs of William James, deceased, with the parties to the partition suit; and the other,
whether there was notice to Hawley, at the time he received
his conveyance, of the unrecorded deed from Davenport to
DeWitt. These matters were left to the jury to determine,
and rightly so left.
No question was raised in the court below upon the sufficiency of the evidence, that the deeds produced by the
plaintiff were recorded, at the time indicated by the indorsement thereon, in May, 1819; nor was any exception taken to
the instruction of the court, that the deed from Davenport
to Hawley was recorded in the propey office, before the deed
from Daveriport to De Witt; nor was any question raised,
or ruling asked; upon the will produced of William James,
and, therefore, no point is presented thereon for our consideration.
We perceive no substantial error in the record, and the
judgment of the court below must, therefore, be
APFIRMED.

VEAZiE BANK v. FENNO.
1. The 9th section of the act of July 13th, 1866, amendatory of prior internal revenue acts, and which provides that every National banking
association, State bank, or State banking association, shall pay a tax of
ten per centum on the amounts of the notes of any State bank, or State
banking association, paid out by them after the 1st day of August, 1866,
does not lay a direct tax within the meaning of that clause of the Constitution which ordains that "direct taxes shall be apportioned among
the several States, according to their respective numbers."
2. Congress having undertaken, in the exercise of undisputed constitutional
power, to provide a currency for the whole country, may constitutionally secure the benefit of it to the people by appropriate legislation, and
to that end may restrain, by suitable enactments, the circulation of any
notes, not issued under its own authority.

VEAZIE BANK

v.

FENNO.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.
8. The tax of ten per centum imposed by the act of July 13th. 1866, on the
notes of State banks paid out after the 1st of August, 1866, is warranted
by the Constitution.

ON certificate of division for the Circuit Court for Maine.

The Constitution ordains that:
"The Congress shall have power"To lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay
the debts and provide for the common defence and general welfare of the United States; but all duties, imposts, and excises
shall be uniform throughout the United States.
To regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the
several States, and with the Indian tribes.
"To coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign
,coin."
It also ordains that:
"Direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States
according to their respective numbers."
No capitation or other direct tax shall be laid, unless in proportion to the census or enumeration hereinbefore directed to
be made."
"The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the
States respectively, or to the people."
With these provisions in force as fundamental law, Congress passed, July 13th, 1866,* an act, the second clause of
the 9th section of which enacts:
"That every -National banking association, State bank, or
State banking association, shall pay a tax of ten per centum on
the amount of notes of any person, State bank, or State banking
association, used for circulation and paid out by them after the
1st day of August, 1866, and such tax shall be assessed and paid
in such manner as shall be prescribed by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue."
Under this act a tax of ten per cent. was assessed upon the
Veazie Bank, for its bank notes issued for circulation, after
the day named in the act.
* 14 Stat. at Large, 146.

Dec. 1869.]

VAzIE BANK V. FENNO.
Argument for the United States.

The Veazie Bank was a corporation chartered by the State
of Laine, with authority to issue bank notes for circulation,
and the notes on which the tax imposed by the act was collected, were issued under this authority. There was nothing
in the case showing that the bank sustained any relation to

the State as a financial agent, or that its authority to issue
notes was conferred or exercised with any special reference
to other than. private interests.
The bank declined to pay the tax, alleging it to be unconstitutional, and the collector of internal revenue, one Fenno,
was proceeding to make a distraint in order to collect it,
with penalty and. costs, when, in order to prevent this, the
bank paid it under protest. An unsuccessful claim having
been made oA the commissioner of internal revenue for reimbursement, suit was brought by the bank against the collector, in the court below.
The case was presented to that court upon an agreed statement of facts, and, upon a prayer for instructions to the jury,
the judges found themselves opposed in opinion on three
questions, the first of which-the two others differing from
it in form only, and not needing to be recited-was this:
"Whether the second clause of the 9th section of the act of
Congress of the 13th of July, 1866, under which the tax in his
case was levied and collected, is a valid and constitutional law."
The case coming here, Messrs. 1everdy Johnson and C.
Cushing, for the Veazie Bank, contended:
1. That the tax in question was a direct tax, and that
it
,had not been apportioned among the States agreeably to the
Constitution.
In explanation of the nature of direct taxes they.relied
largely upon the writings of Adam Smith, and upon other
treatises, English and American, of political economy.
. 2. That the act imposihg the tax impaired a franchise
granted by the State, and that Congress had. no power to
pass any law which could do that.
Mr. Zoar, Attorney-Generatof the United Slates, argued the
case fully, contra; he relying upon the case of .Hyllon v. The

VEAZIE BANK V.

FENNO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

United States,* as conclusive of the question independently of
principle; and referring to the brief recently publishedt of
General Hamilton, by whom the case was argued, to explain
and support his view of what was there decided; a case confirmed recently, the Attorney-General observed, in Pacific
Insurance Company v. Soule.t
In reply, it was contended that Hylton v. The United States
adjudged one point alone, which was that a tax ol carriages
was not a direct tax, and that from the dicta of the judges,
in the case, it was obvious that the great question of what
were direct taxes was but crudely considered.
The arguments at the bar, by which these views of the
respective counsel were maintained, are not presented, the
views of both sides of the case being fully presented from
the bench, in the opinion of the court, and in the dissent
from it.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The necessity of adequate provision for the financial exigencies created by the late rebellion, suggested to the administrative and legislative departments of the government
important changes in the systems of currency and taxation
which had hitherto prevailed. These changes, more or less
distinctly shown in administrative recommendations, took
form and substance in legislative acts. We have now to
consider, within a limited range, those which relate to circulating notes and the taxation of circulation.
At the beginning of the rebellion the circulating medium
consisted almost entirely of bank notes issued by numerous
independent corporations variously organized under State
legislation, of various degrees of credit, and very unequal
resources, administered often with great, and not unfrequently, with little skill, prudence, and integrity. The acts
of Congress, then in force, prohibiting the receipt or dis* 3 Dallas, 171.

t

In The History of the Republic, by John 0. Hamilton.
1 7 Wallace, 433.

Dec. 1869.]

VAz
E

BANK

v.

FENNO.

Opinion of the court.

bursement, in the transactions of the National government,
of anything except gold and silver, and the laws of the States
requiring the redemption of bank notes in coin on demand,
prevented the disappearance of gold and silver from circulation. There was, then, no National currency except coin;
there was no general* regulation of any other by National
legislation; and no National taxation was imposed in any
form on the State bank circulation.
The first act authorizing the emission of notes by the
Treasury Department for circulation was that of July 17th,
1861.t The notes issued under this act were treasury notes,
payable on demand in coin. The amount authorized by it
was $50,000,000, and was increased by the act of February
12th, 1862,1 to $60,000.000.
On the 31st of December, 1861, the State banks suspended
specie payment. Until this time the expenses of the war
bad been paid in coin, cw in the demand notes just referred
to; and, for some time afterwards, they continued to be paid
in these notes, which, if not redeemed in coin, were received
as coin in the payment of duties.
Subsequently, on the 25th of February, 1862,§ a new
policy became necessary in consequence of the suspension
and of the condition of the country, and was adopted. The
notes hitherto issued, as has just been stated, were called
treasury notes, and were payable on demand in coin. The
act now passed authorized the issue of bills for circulation
under the name of United States notes, made payable to
bearer, but not expressed to be payable on demand, to the
amount of $150,000,000; and this amount was increased -by
subsequent acts to $450,000,000, of which $50,000,000 were
to be held in reserve, and only to- be issued for a special
purpose, and under special directions as to their withdrawal
from circulation., These notes, until after the close of the
war, were always convertible into, or receivable at par for
* See the act of December 27th, 1854, to suppress small notes in the Dis-

trict of Columbia, 10 Stat. at Large, 599.
t 12 Stat. at Large, 259.
1 Ib. 338.
I 345.
lb.
11Act of July llth, 1862, Ib. 532; act of March 3d, 1863, Ib. 710.

VEAZIE BANK v.

FENNo.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

bonds payable in coin, and bearing coin interest, at a rate
not less than five per cent., and the acts by which they were
authorized, declared them to be lawful money and a legal
tender.
This currency, issued directly by the government for the
disbursement of the war and other expenditures, could not,
obviously, be a proper object of taxation.
But on the 25th of February, 1863, the act authorizing
National banking associations* was passed, in which, for the
first time during many years, Congress recognized the expediency and duty of imposing a tax upon currency. By
this act a tax of two per cent. annually was imposed on the
circulation of the associations authorized by it. Soon after,
by the act of March 3d, 1863,t a similar but lighter tax of
one per cent. annually was imposed on the circulation of
State banks in certain proportions to their capital, and of two
per cent. on the excess; and the tax on the National associations was reduced to the same rates.
Both acts also imposed taxes on capital and deposits,
which need not be noticed here.
At a later date, by the act of June 3d, 1864,1 which was
substituted for the act of February 25th, 1863, authorizing
National banking associations, the rate of tax on circulation
was continued and applied to the whole amount of it, and
the shares of their stockholders were also subjected to taxation by the States; and a few days afterwards, by the act of
June 30, 1864,§ to provide ways and means for the support
of the government, the tax on the circulation of the State
banks was also continued at the same annual rate of one
per cent., as before, but payment was required in monthly
instalments of one-twelfth of one per cent., with monthly
reports from each State bank of the amount in circulation.
It can hardly be doubted that the object of this provision
was to inform the proper authorities of the exact amount of
paper money in circulation, with a view to its regulation by
law.
* Act of March 3d, 1863, 12 Stat. at Large, 670.

t Id. 712.

$ 13 lb. 111.

§ Id. 277.

:Dec. 1869.]

VEAZIE BANK V. FENNO.
Opinion of the court.

The first step taken by Congress in that direction was by
the act of July 17, 1862,* prohibiting the issue and circulation of notes under one dollar by any person or corporation.
The act just referred to was the next, and it was followed
some months later by the act of March 3d, 1865, amendatory of the prior internal revenue acts, the sixth section of
which' provides, "that every National banking association,
State bank, or State banking association, shall pay a tax of
ten per centum on the amount of the notes of any State
bank, or State banking association, paid out by them after
the 1st day of July, 1866."t
The same provision was re-enacted, with a more extended
application, on the 13t1h of July, 1866, in these words:
"1Every National banking association, State bank, or State
banking association, shall pay a tax of ten per centum on
the amount of notes of any person, State bank, or State
banking association used for circulationand paid out by
them after the first day of August, 1866, and such tax shall
be assessed and paid in such manner as shall be prescribed
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue."T
The constitutionality of this last provision is now drawn
in question, and this brief statement of the recent legislation
of Congress has been made for the purpose of placing in a
clear light its scope and bearing, especially as developed in
the provisions just cited. It will be seen that when the
policy of taxing bank circulation was first adopted in 1863,
Congress was inclined to discriminate for, rather than
against, the circulation of the State banks; but that when
the country bad been sufficiently furnished with a National
currency by the issues of United States notes and of National
bank notes, the discrimination was turned, and very decidedly turned, in the opposite direction.
The general question now before us is, whether or not the
tax of ten per cent., imposed on State banks or National
banks paying out the notes of individuals or State banks
* Act of March 3d, 1863) 12 Stat. at Large, 592.

t 13 Ib. 484.

$ 14 Id. 146.

VEAZIE BANK V. FENNO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

used for circulation, is repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States.
In support of the position that the act of Congress, so far
as it provides for the levy and collection of this tax, is repugnant to the Constitution, two propositions have been
argued with much force and earnestness.
The first is that the tax in question is a direct tax, and has
not been apportioned among the States agreeably to the
Constitution.
The second is that the act imposing the tax impairs a franchise granted by the State, and that Congress has no power
to pass any law with that intent or effect.
The first of these propositions will be first examined.
The difficulty of defining with accuracy the terms used in
the clause of the Constitution which confers the power of
taxation upon Congress, was felt in the Convention which
framed that instrument, and has always been experienced
by courts when called upon to determine their meaning.
The general intent of the Constitution, however, seems
plain. The General Government, administered bythe Congress of the Confederation, had been reduced to the verge
of impotency by the necessity of relying for revenue upon
requisitions on the States, and it was a leading object in the
adoption of the Constitution to relieve the government, to
be organized under it, from this necessity, and confer upon
it ample power to provide revenue by the taxation of persons and property. And nothing is clearer, from the discussions in the Convention and the discussions which preceded final ratification by the necessary number of States,
than the purpose to give this power to Congress, as to the
taxation of everything except exports, in its fullest extent.
This purpose is apparent, also, from the terms in which
the taxing power is granted. The power is "to lay and
collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay the debt
and provide for the common defence and general welfare of
the United States." More comprehensive words could not
have been used. Exports only are by another provision
excluded from its application.

Dec. 1869.]

VEAZIE BANK

v.

FENNO.

Opinion of the court.

There are, indeed, certain virtual limitations, arising from
.the principles of the Constitution itself. It would undoubt.
edly be an abuse of the power if so exercised as to impair
the separate existence and independent self-government* of
the States, or if exercised for ends inconsistent with the
limited grants of power in the Constitution.

And there are directions as to the mode of exercising the
power. If Congress sees fit to impose a capitation, or other
direct tax, it must be laid in proportion to the census; if

Congress determines to impose duties, imposts, and excises,
they must be uniform throughout the United States. These
are not strictly limitations of power. They are rules prescribing the mode in which it shall be exercised. It still
extends to every object of taxation, except exports, and may
be applied to every object of taxation, to which it extends,
in such measure as Congress may determine.
The comprehensiveness of the power, thus given to Congress, may serve to explain, at least, the absence of any
attempt by members of the Convention to define, even in
debate, the terms of the grant. The words used certainly
describe the whole power, and it was the intention of the
Convention that the whole power should be conferred. The
definition of particular words, therefore, became unimportant.
It may be said, indeed, that this observation, however just
in its application to the general grant of power, cannot be
applied to the rules by which different descriptions of taxes
are directed to be laid and collected.
Direct taxes must be laid and collected by the rule of
apportionment; duties, imposts, and excises must be laid
and collected under the rule of uniformity.
Much diversity of opinion has always prevailed upon the
question, what are direct taxes? Attempts to answer it by
reference to the definitions of political economists have been
frequently made, but without satisfactory results. The enumeration of the different kinds of taxes which Congress was
* Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wallace, 73.

VEAZE BANK V. FENNO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

authorized to impose was probably made with very little
reference to their speculations. The great work of Adam
Smith, the first comprehensive treatise on political economy
in the English language, had then been recently published;
but in this work, though there are passages which refer to
the characteristic difference between direct and indirect taxation, there is nothing which affords any valuable light on
the use of the words "direct taxes" in the Constitution.
We are obliged, therefore, to resort to historical evidence,
and to seek the meaning of the words in the use and in the
opinion of those whose relations to the government, and
means of knowledge, warranted them in speaking with authority.
And, considered in this light, the meaning and application of the rule, as to direct taxes, appears to us quite clear.
It is, as we think, distinctly shown in every act of Congress on the subject.
In each of these acts, a gross sum was laid upon the United
States, and the total amount was apportioned to the several
States, according to their respective numbers of inhabitants,
as ascertained by the last preceding census. Having been
apportioned, provision was made for the imposition of the tax
upon the subjects specified in the act, fixing its total sum.
In 1798, when the first direct tax was imposed, the total
amount was fixed at two millions of dollars;* in 1813, the
amount of the second direct tax was fixed at three millions;t
in 1815, the amount of the third at six millions, and it
was made an annual tax;J in 1816, the provision making
the tax annual was repealed by the repeal of the first
section of the act of 1815, and the total amount was fixed
for that year at three millions of dollars.§ No other direct
tax was imposed until 1861, when a direct tax of twenty
millions of dollars was laid and made annual;1I but the pro* Act of July 14th, 1798, 1 Stat. at Large, 597.
-tAct of August 2d, 1813, 3 lb. 53.
] Act of July 9th, 1815, Id. 164.
Act of March 6th, 1816, Id. 255.
Act of August 5th, 1861, 12 lb. 294.

Dec. 1869.]

VEAZIE BANK

V. FENNO.

Opinion of the court.

vision making it annual was suspended, and no tax, except

that first laid was ever apportioned. In each instance, the
total sum was apportioned among the States, by the constitutional rule, and was assessed at prescribed rates, on the
subjects of the tax. These subjects, in 1798,* 1818,j- 1815,1
1816,§ were lands, improvements, dwelling-houses, and
slaves; and in 1861, lands, improvements, and dwellinghouses only. Under the act of 1798, slaves were assessed
at fifty cents on each; under the other acts, according to
valuation by assessors.
This review shows that personal property, contracts, occu-pations, and the like, have never been regarded by Congress
as proper subjects of direct tax. It has been supposed that
slaves must be considered as an exception to this observation. But the exception is rather apparent than real. As
persons, slaves were proper subjects of a capitation tax,
which is described in the Constitution as a direct tax; as
property they were, by the laws of some, if not most of the
States, classed as real property, descendible to heirs. Under
the first view, they would be subject to the tax of 1798, as a
capitation tax; under .the latter, they would be subject to
the taxation of the other years as realty. That the latter
view was that taken by the framers of the acts after 1798,
becomes highly probable, when it is considered, that in the
States where slaves were held, much of the value which would
otherwise have attached to land passed into the slaves. If,
indeed, the land only had been valued without the slaves,
the land would have been subject to much heavier proportional imposition in those States than in States where there
were no slaves; for the proportion of tax imposed on each
State was determined by population, without reference to
the subjects on which it was to be assessed.
The fact, then, that slaves were valued, under the acts referred to, far from showing, as some have supposed, that
Congress regarded personal property as a proper object of
* Act of July 9th, 1798, 1 Stat. at Large, 586.

j

Act of July 22d, 1813, 3 1b. 26.
: Id. 166.
Id. 255.

VRAzIE BANK V.

FLNNO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

direct taxation under the Constitution, shows only that Congress, after 1798, regarded slaves, for the purposes of taxation,
as realty.
It may be rightly affirmed, therefore, that in the practical
construction of the Constitution by Congress, direct taxes
have been limited to taxes on land and appurtenances, and
taxes on polls, or capitation taxes.
And this construction is entitled to great consideration,
especially in the absence of anything adverse to it in the
discussions of the Convention which r"amed, and of the conventions which ratified, the Constitution.
What does appear in those discussions, on the contrary, supports the construction. Mr.Madison informs us,* that Mr.
King asked what was the precise meaning of direct taxation, and no one answered. On another day, when the question of proportioning representation to taxation, and both to
the white and three-fifths of the slave inhabitants, was under
consideration, Mr. Ellsworth said: "In case of a poll tax,
there would be no difficulty;" and, speaking doubtless of
direct taxation, he went on to observe: "The sum allotted
to a State may be levied without difficulty, according to the
plan used in. the State for raising its own supplies." All this
doubtless shows uncertainty as to the true meaning of the
term direct tax; but it indicates, also, an understanding that
direct taxes were such as may be levied by capitation, and
on lands and appurtenances; or, perhaps, by valuation and
assessment of personal property upon general lists. For
these were the subjects from which the States at that time
usually raised their principal supplies.
This view received the sanction of this court two years
before the enactment of the first law imposing direct taxes
eo nomine.
During the February Term, 1796, the constitutionality of
the act of 1794, imposing a duty on carriages, came under
consideration in the case of Hylton v. The United States.t
Suit was brought by the United States against Daniel Hyl* 3 Madison Papers, 1337.

t 3 Dallas, 171.

Dec. 1869.]

VEAZIE BANK V. FENNO.
Opinion of the court.

ton, to recover the penalty imposed by the act for not returning and paying duty *ona number of carriages, for the
conveyance of persons, kept by the defendant for his own use.
The law did not provide for the apportionment of the tax,
and, if it was a direct tax, the law was confessedly unwarranted by the Constitution. The only question in the case,
therefore, was, whether or not the tax was a direct tax.
The case was one of great expectation, and a general
interest was felt in its determination. It was argued, in
support of the tak, by Lee, Attorney-General, and Hamilton,
recently Secretary of the Treasury; in opposition to the tax,
by Campbell, Attorney for the Virginia District, and Ingersoll, Attorney-General of Pennsylvania.
Of the justices who then filled this bench, Ellsworth,
Paterson, and Wilson had been members, aid conspicuous
members, of the Constitutional Convention, and each of the
three had taken part in the discussions relating to direct taxation. Ellsworth, the Chief Justice, sworn into office that
morning, not having heard the whole argument, declined
taking part in the decision. Cushiiig, senior Associate
Justice, haviig been prevented, by indisposition, from attending to the argument, also refrained from expressing an
opinion. The other judges delivered their-opinions in succession, the youngest in commission delivering the first, and
the oldest the last.
They all held that the tax on carriages was not a direct
tax, within the meaning of the'Constitution. Chase, Justice, was inclined to think that the direct taxes contemplated
by the Constitution are only two: a capitation or poll tax,
and a tax on land. He doubted whether a tax by a general
assessment of personal property can be included within the
term direct tax. Paterson, who had taken a leading part
in the Constitutional Convention, went more fully into the
sense in which the words, giving the power of taxation,
were used by that body. In the courie of this examination
he said:
"Whether direct taxes, in the sense of the Constitution,
comprehend any other tax than a capitation tax, and tax on
35
VOL. VIII.

546

VEAZiE BANK V. FEN,-NO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

land, is a questionable point. If Congress, for instance,
should tax, in the aggregate or mass, things that generally
pervade all the States in the Union, then, perhaps, the rule
of apportionment would be the most proper, especially if an
assessment was to intervene. This appears from the practice
of some of the States to have been considered as a direct tax.
Whether it be so, under the Constitution of the United
States, is a matter of some difficulty; but as it is not before
the court, it would be improper to give any decisive opinion
upon it. I never entertained a doubt that the principal-I
will not say the only-objects that the framers of the Constitution contemplated as falling within the rule of apportionnient, were a capitation tax and a tax on land."*
Iredell, J., delivering his opinion at length, concurred generally in the views of Justices Chase and Paterson. Wilson
had expressed his opinion to the same general effect, when
giving the decision upon the circuit, and did not now repeat
them. Neither Chief Justice Ellsworth nor Justice Cushing
expressed any dissent; and it cannot be supposed if, in a case
so important, their judgments had differed from those announced, that an opportunity would not have been given
them by an order for reargument to participate in the decision.
It may be safely assumed, therefore, as the unanimous
judgment of the court, that a tax on carriages is not a direct
tax. And it may further be taken as established upon the
testimony of Paterson, that the words direct taxes, as used
in the Constitution, comprehended only capitation taxes,
and taxes on land, and perhaps taxes on personal property
by general valuation and assessment of the various descriptions possessed within the several States.
It follows necessarily that the power to tax without apportionment extends to all other objects. Taxes on other objects
are included under the heads of taxes not direct, duties, imposts, and excises, and must be laid and collected by the rule
of uniformity. The tax under consideration is a tax on bank
* 3 Dallas, 177.

Dec. 1I869.]

VEUAzIE BANK

v. FENNO.

Opinion of the court.

circulation, and may very well be classed under the bead of
duties. Certainly it is not, in the sense of the Constitution,
a direct tax. It may be said to come within the same category of taxation as the tax on incomes of insurance companies, which this court, at the last term, in the case of -Pacific Insurance Company v. Soule* held not to be a direct tax.
Is it, then, a tax on a franchise granted by a State, which
Congress, upon any principle exempting the reserved powers
of the States from impairment by taxation, must be held to
have no authority to lay and collect?
We do not say that there may not be such a tax. It may
be admitted that the reserved rights of the States, such as
the right to pass laws, to give effect to laws through executive action, to administer justice through the courts, and to
employ all necessary agencies for legitimate purposes of
State government, are not proper subjects of the taxing
power of Congress. But it cannot be admitted that franchises granted by a State are necessarily exempt from taxation; for franchises are property, often very valuable and
productive property; and when not conferred for the purpose of giving effect to some reserved power of a State, seem
to be as properly objects of taxation as any other property.
But in the case before us the object of taxation is not the
franchise of the bank, but property created, or contracts
made and issued under the franchise, or power to issue bank
bills. A railroad company, in the exercise of its corporate
franchises, issues freight receipts, bills of lading, and passenger tickets; and it cannot be doubted that the organization of railroads is quite as important to the State as the
organization of banks. But it will hardly be questioned
that these contracts of the company are objects of taxation
within the powers of Congress, and not exempted by any
relation to the State which granted the charter of the railroad. And it seems difficult to distinguish the taxation of
notes issued for circulation from the taxation of these railroad contracts. Both descriptions of contracts are means
* 7 Wallace, 434.

VEAziE BANK V. FENNO.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of profit to the corporations which issue them; and both, as
we think, may properly be made contributory to the public
revenue.
It is insisted, however, that the tax in the case before us
is excessive, and so excessive as to indicate a purpose on the
part of Congress to destroy the franchise of the bank, and
is, therefore, beyond the constitutional power of Congress.
The first answer to this is that the judicial cannot prescribe to the legislative departments of the government limitations upon the exercise of its acknowledged powers. The
power to tax may be exercised oppressively upon persons,
but the responsibility of the legislature is not to the courts,
but to the people by whom its members are elected. So if
a particular tax bears heavily upon a corporation, or a class
of corporations, it cannot, for that reason only, be pronounced
contrary to the Constitution.
But there is another answer which vindicates equally the
wisdom and the power of Congress.
It cannot be doubted that under the Constitution the
power to provide a circulation of coin is given to Congress.
And it is settled by the uniform practice of the government
and by repeated decisions, that Congress may constitutionally authorize the emission of bills of credit. It is not important here, to decide whether the quality of legal tender,
in payment of debts, can be constitutionally imparted to
these bills; it is enough to say, that there can be no question of the power of the government to emit them; to make
them receivable in payment of debts to itself; to fit them
for use by those who see fit to use them in all the transactions of commerce; to provide for their redemption; to make
them a currency, uniform in value and description, and conThese powers, until
venient and useful for circulation.
recently, were only partially and occasionally exercised.
Lately, however, they have been called into full activity,
and Congress has undertaken to supply a currency for the
entire country.
The methods adopted for the supply of this currency were
briefly explained in the first part of this opinion. It now

Dec. 1869.]

VEAZE BANK v. FENNO.
Opinion of Nelson, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

consists of coin, of United States notes, and of the notes of
the National banks. Both descriptions of notes may be
properly described as bills of credit, for both are furnished
by the government; both are issued on the credit of the
government; and the government is responsible for the redemption of both; primarily as to the first description, and
immediately upon default of the bank, as to the second.
When these bills shall be made convertible into coin, at the
will of the holder, this currency will, perhaps, satisfy the
wants of the community, in respect to a circulating medium,
as perfectly as any mixed currency that can be devised.
Having thus, in the exercise of undisputed constitutional
powers, undertaken to provide a currency for the whole
country, it cannot be questioned that Congress may, constitutionally, secure the benefit of it to the people by appropriate legislation. To this end, Congress has denied the
quality of legal tender to foreign coins, and has provided by
law against the imposition of counterfeit and base coin on
the community. To the same end, Congress may restrain,
by suitable enactments, the circulation as money of any
notes not issued under its own authority. Without this
power, indeed, its attempts to secure a sound and uniform
currency for the country must be futile.
Viewed in this light, as well as in the other light of a duty
on contracts or property, we cannot doubt the constitutionality of the tax under consideration.
The three questions certified from the Circuit Court of
the District of Maine must, therefore, be answered
AFFIRMATIVELY.

Mr. Justice NTELSON, with whom concurred Mr. Justice
DAVIS, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the opinion of a majority of the
court in this case.
The Veazie Bank was incorporated by the legislature of
the State of Maine, in 1848, with a capital of .200,000, and
was invested with the customary powers of a banking institution; and, among others, the power of receiving deposits,

VEAZIE BANK V. FENNO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Nelson, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

discounting paper, and issuing notes or bills for circulation.
The constitutional authority of the State to create these institutions, and to invest them with full banking powers, is
hardly denied. But, it may be useful to recur for a few
moments to the source of this authority.
The tenth amendment to the Constitution is as follows:
"The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to
the States respectively, or to the people." On looking into
the Constitution, it will be found that there is no clause or
provision which either expressly, or by reasonable imiplication, delegates this power to the Federal Government, which
originally belonged to the States, nor which prohibits it to
them. In the discussions on the subject of the creation of
the first Bank of the United States, in the first Congress, and
in the Cabinet of Washington, in 1790 and 1791, no question was made as to the constitutionality of the State banks.
The only doubt that existed, and which divided the opinion
of the most eminent statesmen of the day, many of whom
bad just largely participated in the formation of the Constitution, the government under which they were then engaged
in organizing, was, whether or not Congress possessed a concurrent power to incorporate a banking institution of the
United States?
Mr. Hamilton, in his celebrated report on a National bank
to the I-ouse of Representatives, discusses at some length
the question, whether or not it would be expedient to substitute the Bank of North America, located in Philadelphia,
and which had accepted a charter from the legislature of
Pennsylvania, in the place of organizing a new bank. And,
although he finally came to the conclusion to organize a new
one, there is not a suggestion, or intimation, as to the illegality or unconstitutionality of this State bank.
The act incorporating this bank, passed February 25th,
1791, prohibited the establishment of any other by Congress,
during its charter, but said nothing as to the State banks.
A like prohibition is contained in the act incorporating the
Baank of the United States of 1816. The constitutionality of a

Dec. 1869.]

VEAZIE 13ANK

v.

FENNO.

Opinion of Nelson, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

bank incorporated by Congress was first settled by the judgment of this court in McCulloch v. The State of Maryland,*
in 1819. In that case both the counsel and the court recognize the legality and constitutionality of banks incorporated
by the States.
The constitutionality of the Bank of the United States was
again discussed, and decided in the case of Osborn v. United
States Bank.t And, in connection with this, was argued
and decided a point in the case of The.1.nited Slates Bank
v. The Planters' Bank of Georgia, which was common to both
cases. The question was, whether the Circuit Courts of
the United States had jurisdiction of a suit, brought by the
United States Bank against the Planters' Bank of Georgia,
incorporated by that State, and in which the State was a
stockholder.1
The court held in both cases that it had. Since the adoption of the Constitution, down to the present act of Congress,
and the case now before us, the question in Congress and in
the courts has been, not whether the State banks were constitutional institutions, but whether Congress had the power
conferred on it by the States, to establish a National bank.
As we have said, that question was .losed by the judgment
of this court in McCulloch v. The State of Ma7jland. At the
time of the adoption of the .Constitution, there were four
State banks in existence and in operation-one in each of
the States of Pennsylvania, New York, Massachusetts, and
Maryland. The one in Philadelphia had been originally chartered by the Confedferation, but subsequently took a charter
under the State of Pennsylvania. The framers of the Constitution were, therefore, familiar with these State banks,
and the circulation of their paper as money; and were-also
familiar with the practice of the States, t'hat was so common,
to issue bills of credit, which were bills issued by the State,
exclusively on its own credit, and intended to circulate as currency, redeemable at a future day. They guarded the people
against the evils of this practice of the State governments
* 4 WVheaton, 316.

t 9 Id. 738.

$] lb. 804, 904.

VEAZIE BANK

V. FENNO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Nelson, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

by the provision in the tenth section of the first article, "that
no State shall" " emit bills of credit," and, in the same section, guard against any abuse of paper money of the State
banks in the following words: "nor make anything but gold
and silver coin a tender in payment of debts." As bills of
credit were thus entirely abolished, the paper money of the
State banks was the only currency or circulating medium to
which this prohibition could have had any application, and
was the only currency, except gold and silver, left to the
States. The prohibition took from this paper all coercive
circulation, and left it to stand alone upon the credit of the
banks.
It was no longer an irredeemable currency, as the banks
were under obligation, including, frequently, that of its
stockholders, to redeem their paper in circulation, in gold
or silver, at the counter. The State banks were left in this
condition by the Constitution, untouched by any other provision. As a consequence, they were gradually established
in most or all of the States, and had not been encroached
upon or legislated against, or in any other way interfered
with, by acts of Congress, for more than three-quarters of a
century-from 1787 to 1864.
But, in addition to the above recognition of the State
banks, the question of their constitutionality came directly
before this court in the case of Briscoe v. The Bank of the
Comn onwealth of Kentucky.*
The case was most elaborately discussed, both by counsel
and the court. The court, after the fullest consideration, held
that the States possessed the power to grant charters to State
banks; that the power was incident to sovereignty; and that
there was no limitation in the Federal Constitution on its
exercise by the States. The court observed that the Bank of
North America and of Massachusetts, and some others, were
in operation at the time of the adoption of the Constitution,
and that it could not be supposed the notes of these banks
were intended to be inhibited by that instrument, or, that
* 11 Peters, 257.

Dec. 1869.]

VEAZIE BANK

v.

FENNO.

Opinion of Nelson, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

they were considered as bills of credit within its meaning.
All the judges concurred in this judgment, except Mr. Justice
Story. The decision in this case was affirmed in Woodruff v.
D'apnzall;* in Darringlonv. The Bank of Alabama;t and in
Curran v. Slate of Arkansas..
Chancellor Kent observes, that Mr. Justice Story, in 'his
Commentaries on the Constitution,§ seems to be of opinion
that independent of the long-continued practice, from the
time of the adoption of the Constitution, the States would
not, upon a sound construction of the Constitution, if the
question was res integra, be authorized to incorporate banks
with a power to circulate bank paper as currency, inasmuch
as they are expressly prohibited from coining money. He
cites the opinions of Mr. Webster, of the Senate of the
United States, and of Mr. Dexter, formerly Secretary of
War, on the same side. But the Chancellor observes, that
the equal, if not the greater, authority of Mr. Hamilton, the
earliest Secretary of the Treasury, may be cited in support
of a different opinion; and the contemporary sense and uniform practice of the nation are decisive of the question. He
further observes, the prohibition (of bills of credit) does not
extend to bills emitted by individuals, singly or collectively,
whether associated under a private agreement for banking
purposes, as was the case with the Bank of New York, prior
to its earliest charter, which was in the winter of 1791, or
acting under a charter of incorporation, so long as the State
lends not its credit, or obligation, or coercion to sustain the
circulation.
In the case of Briscoe v. The Bank of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky,', he observes, that this question was put at rest by
the opinion of the court, that there was no limitation in the
Constitution on the power of the States to incorporate banks,
and their notes were not intended nor were considered as
bills of credit.[[
The constitutional power of the States, being thus estab* 10 Howard, 205.

- 13 Id. 12.
+ 15 Id. 317.
Vol. 3, p. 19.
V
I 1 Kent's Commentaries, p. 409, marg. note A, 10th ed.

554

VEAZiE BANK V. FENNO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Nelson, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

lished by incontrovertible authority, to create State banking
institutions, the next question is, whether or not the tax in
question can be upheld, consistently with the enjoyment of
this power.
The act of Congress, July 13th, 1866,* declares, that the
State banks shall pay ten per centum on the amount of their
notes, or the notes of any person, or other State bank, used
for circulation, and paid out by them after the 1st of August, 1866. In addition to this tax, there is also a tax of
five per centum per annum, upon all dividends to stockholders,t besides a duty of one twenty-fourth of one per
centum, monthly, upon all deposits, and the same monthly
duty upon the capital of the bank.t This makes an aggregate of some sixteen per cent. imposed annually upon
these banks. It will be observed, the tax of ten per centurn
upon the bills in circulation is not a tax on the property of
the institutions. The bills in circulation are not the property, but the debts of the bank, and, in their account of
debits and credits, are placed to the debit side. Certainly,
DO government has yet made the discovery of taxing both
sides of this account, debit and credit, as the property of a
taxable person or corporation. If both these items could
be made available for this purpose, a heavy National debt
need not create any very great alarm, neither as it respects
its pressure on the industry of the country, for the time being,
or of its possible duration. There is nothing in the debts
of a bank to distinguish them in this respect from the debts
of individuals or persons. The discounted paper received
for the notes in circulation is the property of the bank, and
is taxed as such, as is the property of individuals received
for their notes that may be outstanding.
The imposition upon the banks cannot be upheld as a tax
upon property; neither could it have been so intended. It is,
simply, a mode by which the powers or thculties of the States,
to incorporate banks, are subjected to taxation, and, which,
if maintainable, may annihilate those powers.
14 Stat. at Large, 146,
lb. 277,

110.

9.

t

13 Id. p. 283,

120.

Dec. 1869.]

Dec
VEMZE
189.] BANK v. FENNO.
Opinion of Nelson, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

No person questions the authority of Congress to tax the
property of the banks, and of all other corporate bodies of
a State, the same as that of individuals. They are artificial
bodies, representing the associated pecuniary means of real
persons, which constitute their business capital, and the
property thus invested is open and subject to taxation, with
all the property, real and Tersonal, of the State. A tax upon
this property, and which, by the Constitution, is to be uniform, affords full scope to the taxing power of the Federal
government, and is consistent with the powe- of the States
to create the banks, and, in our judgment, is the only subject of taxation, by this government, to which these institutions are liable.
As we have seen, in the forepart of thiJ opinion, the power
to incorporate banks was not surrendered to the Federal
Government, but reserved to the States; and it follows that
the Constitution itself protects them, or should protect them,
from any encroachment upon this right. As to the powers
thus reserved, the States are as supreme as before they entered into the Union, and are entitled to the unrestrained
exercise of them. The question as to the taxation of the
powers and faculties belonging to governments is not new
in this court. The bonds of the Federal Government have
been held to be exempt from State taxation. Why? Because they were issued under the power in the Constitution
to borrow money, and the tax would be a tax upon this
power; and, as there can be no limitation to the extent of
the tax, the power to borrow might be destroyed. So, in the
instance of the United States notes, or legal tenders, as
they are called, issued under a constructive power to issue
bills of credit, as no express power is given in the Constitution, they areexempt from State taxation for a like reason
as in the case of government bonds; and, we learn from
the opinion of the court in this case, that one step further is
taken, and that is, that the notes of the National banks are
to be regarded as bills of credit, issued indirectly by the
government; and it follows, of course, from this, that the
banks used as instruments to issue and put in circulation

VEAZIE BANK V. FENNo.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Nelson, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

these notes, are also exempt. *We are not complaining of
this. Our purpose is to show how important it is to the
proper protection of the reserved rights of the States, that
these powers and prerogatives should be exempt from Federal taxation, and how fatal to their existence, if permitted.
And, also, that even if this tax could be regarded as one
upon property, still, under the decisions above referred to,
it would be a tax upon the powers and faculties of the States
to create these banks, and, therefore, unconstitutional.
It is true, that the present decision strikes only at the
power to create banks, but no person can fail to see that the
principle involved affects the power to create any other description of corporations, such as railroads, turnpikes, manufacturing companie's, and others.
This taxation of the powers and faculties of the State governments, which are essential to their sovereignty, and to
the efficient and independent management and adininistration of their internal affiairs, is, for the first time, advanced
as an attribute of Federal authority. It finds no support or
countenance in. the early history of the government, or in the
opinions of the illustrious statesmen who founded it. These
statesmen scrupulously abstained from any encroachment
upon the reserved rights of the States; and, within these
limits, sustained and supported them as sovereign States.
We say nothing, as to the purpose of this heavy tax of
some sixteen per centum upon the banks, ten of which we
cannot but regard as imposed upon the power of the States
to create them. Indeed, the purpose is scarcely concealed,
in the opinion of the court, namely, to encourage the National banks. It is sufficient to add, that the burden of the
tax, while it has encouraged these banks, has proved fatal to
those of the States; and, if we are at liberty to judge of the
purpose of an act, from the consequences that have followed,
it is not, perhaps, going too far to say, that these consequences were intended.

