Dec. 1868.]

UTNITED STATES V. LANE.
Statement of the case.

State regulation, much more so may contracts of insurance
against loss by fire.
We perceive nothing in the statuteof-Virginia which conflicts with the Constitution of the United States; and the
judgment of the Supreme Court of App~eals of that State

must, therefore, be

AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. LANE.
1. The 8th section of the act'of July 2d, 1864, which enacts that it shall be
lawful for the Secretary of the Treasury, with the approval of the
President, to authorize agents to purchase for the United States any
products of States declared in insurrection, did not confer the power to
license trading within the military lines of the enemy.
2. In connection with the regulations of the Treasury Department, and an
executive order of the rresident, issued in accordance with the act,
it authorized the insurgents to bring their cotton within our lines, without seizure, and with a promise on our part to buy it from them, with
liberty on theirs to go to the nearest treasury agent in an insurrectionary
district to sell it, or if they preferred, to leave it under the control of some
one who could go to such agent and sell it for them; with leave, to them
also, by way of further inducement, to purchase such articles of merchandise as they needed, not contraband of war, to the extent of onethird of the aggregate value of the products sold by them, and to return
with them under a safe conduct.
8. By the regulations issued under the act, the purchasing agent could not
act at all until the person desiring to sell the Southern products made
application, in writing, stating that he owned or controlled them, stating also their kind, quality, and location ;,and even then the power of
the purchasing agent before the delivery of the products was limited to
a stipulation (the form was prescribed) to purchase, and to the giving
a certificate that such application was made, and to requesting safe conduct for the party and his property.
4. A record of a judgment on the same subject-matter, referred to in a
finding, cannot be set up as an estoppel, when neither the record is set
forth, nor the finding shows on what ground the court put its decision:
whether for want of proof, insufficient allegations, or on the merits of
the case.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims, the object of the suit
having been to recover damages against the United States
for an alleged breach of contract, made by George Lane

186

UNITED

STATES V.

LANE.

[Sup. (Jt.

Statement of the case.

with one Risley, who was at the time the treasury agent at
Norfolk, Virginia, for the purchase of the products of insurrectionary States.
The case, which depended in part on statutes, regulations
of the treasury, and a proclamation of the President, was
thus:
ACTS OF 1861 AND 1863.
By act of July 13th, 1861, section 5, "all commercial intercourse" by and between States declared in insurrection and
the citizens thereof, and the citizens of the rest of the United
States, was declared unlawful, except such as should be
licensed by the President, and conducted under the regulations made by the Treasury Department.
An act of March 12th, 1863, authorized agents of the
Treasury Department to collect "all abandoned and captured property," &c., and enacted that "all property coming"
into any of the United States not declared in insurrection
'from
within any of the United States declared in insurrection, through or by any person other than a treasury agent,
or under a lawful clearance by the proper treasury officer,
shall be confiscated."
TREASURY

REGULATIONS OF MARCH 31ST,

1863.

The treasury regulations issued March 31st, 1863, by their
section 7, ordered thus: "No permit shall be granted to
transport to or from, or to sell or purchase in any place or
section whatever, not within the military lines of the United
States army."
Regulation 8, as revised and published September 12th,
1863, declared: "Commercial intercourse with localities beyond the lines of military occupation by the United States
forces is strictly prohibited, and no permit will be granted
for the transportation of any property to any place under the
control of insurgents against the United States."
ACT OF 1864.

By the 4th section of an act of July 2d,1864, the prohibitions of the act of July 13th, 1861, were extended to "corn-

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES V. LANE.

Statement of the case.

mercial intercourse by and between persons residing or being
within the lines of National military occupation, in such
districts declared in insurrection, whether with each other or
with persons being within such insurrectionary districts, but
not within our military lines."
Section 8 of this act provided that the Secretary of the
Treasury might authorize agents "to purchasefor the United
States any products of States declared in insurrection at such
places therein as shall be designated by him, at such price as shall
be agreed on with the seller, not exceeding the market price
thereof at the place of delivery, nor exceeding three-fourths
of the market value thereof in the city of New York, at the
latest quotations known to the agent purchasing."
Section 9 of this act repealed so much of section 5 of the
act of July 13th, 1861, as made it laufulfor the President to
license or permit such trade by private citizens and traders except to supply necessaries to loyal persons within the Federal
lines, and to authorize persons within the Federal lines to
bring or send to market in loyal States products of their
own labor or of the labor of freedmen or others in their
employment.
TREASURY REGULATIONS OF JULY 29TH,

1864.

On the 29th of July, 1864, rules were promulgated by the
Secretary of the Treasury, and by one of which "commercial intercourse with localities beyond the lines of actual
.military occupation by the United States forces is absolutely
prohibited; and no permit will be granted for the transportation of any property to any place under the control of insurgents
against the United States."
TREASURY REGULATIONS OF SEPTEMBER 24TH, 1864.

On the 24th of September, 1864, general regulations for
the purchase, on government account, of products of insurrectionary States, were made by the Secretary of the Treasury,
approved by the President, by which Norfolk was made a
purchasing point, and the special agent was required (by
Regulation 7), to the extent of the funds at his command,

UNITED

STATES V. LANE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

to purchase all products offered to him (of the character
which by his instructions he was authorized to buy); "but
no liability of any character shall be authorized or assumed by
any agent, for or on account of the government, previous to
the actual delivery of the products, other than a stipulation to
purchase products owned or controlled by applicants, at a price
to be agreed upon at the place and date of delivery." The form
of this stipulation is given, and consists of a certificate by
the treasury agent, that he has "agreed to purchase" from
C. ID. property, &c., "which he stipulates shall be delivered to me, unless prevented from so doing by the authority of
the United States," with a "request" for "safe conduct."
By Rule 8, "whenever any person shall make application
to the purchasing agent in writing, setting forth that he
'owns or controls' products, stating the kind, quantity, and
location thereof, or the date at which they will be delivered
at some specified location accessible to transportation," the
purchasing agent was directed to give a certificate that such
application had been made, and request safe conduct for
such party and his necessary transportation to the location
specified, and for himself and products from the location
specified to the purchasing agent. (The form of this certificate is given.) Rule 9 provided that parties, having sold
and delicered products, shall, upon their request, be furnished
by the purchasing agent with a certificate stating the character and quantity of articles purchased, the price paid, the
aggregate amount of payment, the place whence, and the route
by which the property was transported.
PRESIDENT'S PROCLAMATION, SEPTEMBER 24TH, 1864.

On September 24th, 1864, the President issued his proclamation, reciting that Congress had authorized the purchase
for the United States of products of States declared in insurrection, and that the Secretary of the Treasury had designated Norfolk and other places named therein as places of
purchase, and had made regulations for such purchases, and
lie therefore proclaimed that all persons, except those in the
service of the government, " having in their possession " such

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES v. LAINE.
Statement of the case.

products (and which said agents were authorized to purchase),
"and all persons owning or controlling such products," are
authorized to convey them to either of said places of purchase, and "such products, so destined, shall not be liable to
detention, seizure, or forfeiture, while in transituor awaiting
transportation." And that "any person having the certificate of a purchasing agent, a prescribed by Treasury Regulation 8, is authorized to pass with means of transportation
to the points named in said certificate, and to return therefrom with the products required for the fulfilment of its
stipulations." And that "any person having sold, and delivered to a purchasingagentproductsof an'insurrectionary State,"
"and having in his possession a certificate of the fact, stating the character and quantity of products, and the aggregate
amount paid therefor, as prescribed by Regulation 9, shall
be permitted" "to purchase from any authorized dealer,"
at the place of sale, or any other place in a loyal State, any
"articles not contraband of war, nor prohibited by the War
Department," "to an amount not exceeding in value onethird of the aggregate value" of products sold by him as certified by the agent; and "such articles may be transported
by the same route and to the sarne place, from and by which the
said products sold and delivered, reached the purchasing agent,"
and such goods "shall have safe conduct, and shall not be
subject to detention, seizure, or forfeiture, while being transportcd to the places and by the route set forth in said certific.ate."
Generals and military officers commanding districts, posts,
or detachments, and officers commanding fieets, flotillas, and
gunboats, "will give safe conduct to persons and products,
merchandise, and other articles duly authorized as afbresaid
and not contraband of war, or prohibited by order of the
War Department, or the orders of such generals commanding, or other duly authorized military or naval officer made
in pursuance thereof."
THE FACTS OF THE CASE, as found by the Court of Claims,

were essentially these:
The claimant, Lane, entered into contracts with the treas-

UNITED STATES V. LANE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ury agent at Norfolk, Virginia, foir the delivery to the agent
of a large quantity of cotton, which was upon the Chowan
River, in the State of North Carolina, and within the lines held
by the insurrectionaryforces. The commander of the military
district gave safe conduct to the claimant, his vessel and crew,
to bring out the cotton. The claimant also had a license to take
out certain articles, a schedule of'which was attached to the safe
conduct given by the military comnmander.
The purchasing agent of the Treasury Department of Norfolk appointed a sub-agent to proceed on board of the vessel
and to be in charge of the outward cargo contained in the
schedule, and not deliver the same to the claimant until
he should have delivered to such agent on board the vessel
three times its value in cotton. The outward voyage was
made without hindrance, and having arrived at Chowan
River, the claimant delivered the cotton to the sub-agent on
board the vessel.
On her return voyage, the vessel and the cargo were seized
by order of a naval commander on duty in the inland waters
of North Carolina. After being detained several days, the
vessel and cargo were released. She again set off on her
course towards Norfolk, and before arriving there was again
seized by the order of the admiral commanding the squadron
in those waters.
The vessel was afterwards sent to Washington, D. C.,
where she was libelled, at the instance of the United States,
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, sitting in
admiralty, where, however, a decree, with costs, passed for
the claimant. No record of that suit, however, was produced here.
No proceedings were ever taken against the cotton, and it
was ultimately, though after some months' detention, restored
to the claimant. It was then taken to New York, but the
price of the article had greatly fillen during the detention,
and the price received on the sale of it was correspondingly
less than if the voyage had not been arrested, and if the
cotton had been sold on its prompt completion.
The United States were now called on in the suit to make

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES r. LANE.
Argument for the United States.

good the loss caused by the wrongful conduct of its naval
officers.
Upon the facts, the Court of Claims ruled, among other
things:
That the contracts with the agent of the treasury, for the
sale and delivery of the cotton, were valid and lawful contracts.
That the seizure and detention of the claimant's vessels
and cargo, by the officers of the navy, were unlawful and unauthorized.
That the judgment of the Court of Admiralty was conelusive; that the voyage was a lawful and proper one, and
conducted according to the prescribed regulations of the
trade in which the claimant and his vessel were engaged.
That such acts constituted a breach of the contracts between the claimant and the United States, and entitled him
to such damages as he sustained thereby.
Mr. .Diccey, Assistant Attorney--General (having set forth all
the statutes, treasury regulations, &c., bearing on the case,
as already given by the reporter, who is indebted for them
to Mr. Dickey's brief), for the appellant; Mr. Roar, AttorneyGeneral, maintainingthe same side:
1. The voyage was in violation of law, and the contract
alleged and the contracts found by the court to have been
made were illegal; the seizure, by the naval officers, was
proper, and the claimant has, therefore, no just and legal
cause of complaint.
The act of July 13th, 1861, the act of March 12th, 1863,
the Treasury Regulations of March 31st, 1863, the Revised
Treasury Regulations of September l1th, 1863, the act of
July 2d, 1864, the Treasury Regulations of July 29th and
30th, 1864, and those of September 24th, 1864, and the President's proclamation of September 24th, 1864, make it plain,
that everywhere commercial intercourse with those parts
of the insurrectionary States which were within the control
of rebels, was absolutely forbidden, from the beginning of
the war, unless, indeed, it may be in the act of July 2d,
4

UNITED STATES V. LANE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

1864, and the regulations and President's proclamation made
thereunder. But these, in truth, make no change in this
regard. If it were intended by that act and the practice
under it, to license such trade, it is not so specifically provided, and is manifested only, if at all, by the want of express words of limitation in the act. It authorizes the
"purchase" for the United States of "any products of States
declared in insurrection, at such places therein as shall
be designated by" the Secretary of the Treasury. It does
not say, expressly, that these provisions relate only to
products found within the Federal lines; but is not that the
fair construction? Such trade with a public enemy is forbidden without statute, according to the laws of war among
all civilized nations; and when that non-intercourse had been
so often and so fully proclaimed by all the departments of
the government, from the beginning of the war, are we to
construe these general words as changing this policy? This
construction, limiting the provisions of this act to those parts
of the States in insurrection, which were, for the time, withiu
our military lines, is strengthened by the fact that the prohibitions of the act of July 13th, 1861, were extended by the
4th section of this act of July 2d, 1864, even "to commercial
intercourse by and between persons residing or beingwithiu
the lines of National military occupation, in districts declared
in insurrection " "with each olher."
This construction is
strengthened, too, by the fact, that section 9 of this act repeals so much of the act of July 1861, as made it lawful fbr
the President to license and permit trade by private citizens
in such districts, even within the Federal lines, except to
supply necessaries to loyal persons, and to authorize persons
within the Federal lines to bring to the loyal States products
of their own labor, or of freedmen, &c.
This construction is fortified also by the language of Regulation 3 of the Treasury Regulations of July 30th, 1864.
2. The jurisdiction of the Court of Claims depends, of
course, upon the acts of Congress which established it; and
these, as all know, give it jurisdiction of "all claims founded
upon any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of an ex-

:Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES r.

LANE.

Argument for the trader.

ecutive department, or upon any contract, express or implied,
with the government of the United States." The only ground
which can be pretended here is " contract." But the United
States never contracted with the claimant that its naval officers would not seize and detain his vessel and cotton, and
claimant has, therefore, no cause of action which the Court
of Claims can, within its jurisdiction, enforce.
The grievance or wrong for which this suit is brought
was the capture and detention of his steamer and. his cargo
of cotton by the naval officers, and afterwards by the officers
of the Treasury Department. In fact, this capture and detention, which is a tort, not anything founded on contract,
is the gist of claimant's action.
The Court of Claims, however, have no jurisdiction in
cases of tort. Claims arising out of damage to, or destruction of, property in the Southern States taken or destroyed by
any part of the army or navy, must be referred to Congress.
Mr. T. J. D. Fuller, contra:
1. Lane was the undisputed owner of the cotton prior to,
and at the making of, the contract. He agreed to sell, and
the United States to buy, this cotton. The price to be paid,
the place it was to be delivered at, was agreed upon by the
contracting parties.
The law authorized it: the agents of the United States
were fully empowered to contract. Whatever some other
statutes and regulations may have meant, the act of July 2d,
1864, and -the regulations and proclamation under it, permitted what was done. To understand the act we must read
it by the light of surrounding circumstances, circumstances
found in the public history of the day. The United States,
it is to be remembered, wanted cotton at this time, grievously. France and England were so greatly suffering from
the want of it, as to betempted to acknowledge the independence of the Confederate States. The people of the N'orth,
themselves, greatly wanted it. Public necessity rendered a
relaxation of former rules indispensable. The 8th section of
the act of July 2d, 1864, which made it lawful for the Sec
VOL. VIII.

.13

UNITED STATES v. LANE.

[SUP. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

retary of the Treasury, with the approval of the President, to
authorize agents to purchase for the Middle States any products of the States declared to be in insurrection, conferred
the power to license trading within the military lines of the
enemy. The Regulations of September 24th, 1864, which
were meant to allow the trading authorized by the act of
July 2d, previous, do not adopt the prohibition against nonintercourse contained in the prior regulations of July 2d.
They thus show that it was meant to he abandoned.
2. But even if the view we thus take were not correct, the
United States are estopped from denying its correctness by
the judgment of their own courts. The judgment of the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, sitting as a court
of prize, between the United States and Lane, was on this
sane subject-matter, to wit, the steamer. The steamer could
not be free from liability, and the cotton subject to condemnation. The Supreme Court of the District, by restoring the
vessel, established the lawfulness of the whole voyage; for
if the voyage was unlawful, the steamer would have been
condemned. The judgment is, moreover, conclusive upon
all the world, and estops the United States from calling in
question the legality and regularity of the voyage. It was
a judgment of a court of competent and exclusice jurisdiction,
and binds all the world.
Reply:
It is attempted to conclude the whole question by an
estoppel of record. But the record set up as an estoppel is
not produced. Never favored, an estoppel which seeks to
protect-both in the face of general law and special statutes
forbidding it-trading with an enemy who is at once an
enemy and a rebel-will not be received.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
In the view we take of this case it is unnecessary to discuss the question-conceding the contract to be lawfulwhether the action of the naval authorities could be a ground
of claim for damages for a breach of this contract against the

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES V. LANE.
Opinion of the court.

United States, because, in our opinion, the contract was unauthorized, and had no power to bind the government.
It appears, by the findings of the Court of Claims, that
Chowan River, in North Carolina, the place where the cotton
was purchased, was within the lines held by the insurrectionary forces, and that the military safe-conduct protected as
well the return as the outward voyage, for Lane was permitted to take out an outward cargo, under the supervision
of a person, styled in the record a sub-agent of the purchasing agent at Norfolk, whose duty it was to retain possession
of the cargo until he should have received from Lane on
board the vessel, three times its value in cotton.

At the time this contract purports to have been made,
this country was engaged in war with a formidable enemy,
and by a universally recognized principle of public law, commercial intercourse between states at war with each other,
is interdicted. It needs no special declaration on the part
of the sovereign to accomplish this result, for it follows from
the very nature of war that trading between the belligerents
should cease. If commercial intercourse were allowable, it
would oftentimes be used as a color for intercourse of an
entirely different character; and in such a case the mischievous consequences that would ensue can be readily foreseen.
But the rigidity of this rule can be relaxed by the sovereign,
and the laws of war so far suspended as to permit trade with
the enemy. Each state settles for itself its own policy, and
determines whether its true interests are better promoted by
granting or withholding licenses to trade with the enemy.
It being the rule, therefore, that business intercourse with
the enemy is unlawful unless directly sanctioned, the inquiry
arises, whether .there was any law of Congress in force at
the time that sanctioned this transaction.
At an early period in the history of the war, Congress
legislated on this subject. By an act passed on the 13th of
July, 1861, all commercial intercourse between citizens of
States in insurrection and citizens of the rest of the United
States was declared unlawful; but liberty was given to the
President, in his discretion, to license trade with the enemy

"UNITED STATES V.

LANE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

if he thought it would conduce to the public interests to do
so. In so far, however, as it was licensed by him, the manner of conducting it was left to be regulated by the Secretary of the Treasury. In the administration of this law, we
do not find any regulation prescribed by the Secretary of the
Treasury allowing commercial intercourse within the rebel
lines. On the contrary, the trade regulations which were
issued by him on the 31st of March, 1863, and the 12th of
September of the same year, expressly say that commercial
intercourse with those parts of the insurrectionary States
within the control of the rebels is absolutely forbidden.
Has this policy since then been chathged? It certainly has, if
this proceeding was authorized; for-if Risley in his capacity
of treasury agent, could lawfully contract with Lane, a citizen of a State not in rebellion, to purchase from him cotton
in the country of the public enemy, which he did not own
or control, but must procure after he got there, and had the
power to assist him in this enterprise, by allowing him to
take out a cargo of goods to facilitate the purchase of the
cotton, and to furnish for his protection a sub-agent and a
military safe-conduct, then it is clear the door was left open
for general trading with the enemy. If one citizen of a
State, not in insurrection, could lawfully obtain from a treasury agent the right to transport goods to a place under the
control of the insurgents, where he could exchange them for
cotton or other products of the country, and could also have
safe-conduct to take his property there, and to bring out the
property he should buy, with the promise on the part of the
agent to protect and purchase it, so could any other citizen
-fbr in this matter equality must be the rule-and in this
way it is easy to see a free commercial intercourse with the
enemy would be opened, and a radical change effected in
the manner of conducting the war. Was this result contemplated by Congress in the act of July 2d, 1864?
It is contended that the 8th section of this act, which says
that it shall be lawful for the Secretary of the Treasury, with
the approval of the President, to authorize agents to purchase
for the United States any products of States declared in in-

Dec. 1868.]

e1NITED

STATES V. LANE.

Opinion of the court.

surrection, conferred the power to license trading within the
military lines of the enemy.
If this were so, and it was the intention of Congress'to
allow this trading, providing it was done on government
account, why was it not manifested by a specific provision in
the law? Why leave such an important change of policy to
be inferred from the general words of the act, and the absence of express words of limitation ?
That the Secretary of the Treasury, who, it is natural to
suppose, having the administration of the law in his hands
was, before it was passed, consulted about it, did not give
this interpretation to it, is very clear, for, within a short
time after the passage of the act, he adopted, with the approval of the President, a new series of rules regulating
commercial intercourse, which were intended to supersede
all others, and the third rule absolutely prohibits all intercourse beyond our military lines, and declares further, "that
no permit will be granted for the transportation of any
property to any place under the control of the insurgents."
(See Treasury Regulations, and Rules for Commercial Intercourse, of July 29th, 1864.)
It is argued, as the regulations which were issued on the
24th of September following, for the express purpose of enforcing that provision of the act relating to the purchase for
the United States of the products of insurrectionary States,
do not, in terms, readopt this prohibition against non-intercourse, that therefore it was abandoned. But this does not
follow, for there is nothing in these regulations inconsistent
with its continuance, and if not expressly revoked, it remained in force. Aside, however, from the construction
adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury, we are able to see,
by reference to other provisions of the same act, that Congress did not mean to change, by the 8th section, the non1
intercourse policy which had prevailed. By the 4th section
of this act the prohibitions of the act of July 13th, 1861, were
extended even to commercial intercourse by and 'between
persons residing, or being within the lines of National military occupation in districts declared in insurrection, "with

UNITED STATES V. LANE.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

each other ;" and the 9th section repeals so much of the act
of July, 1861, as made it lawful for the President to license
and permit trade by private citizens, in such districts, even
within the Federal lines, except to supply the actual wants
of the loyal people, and to authorize persons within the
Federal lines to bring to the loyal States the products of their
own labor, or of freedmen, &c.
The incorporation of these sections in the law is irreconcilable with the idea that Congress intended, notwithstanding these prohibitions, to confer power on the Secretary of
the Treasury to allow citizens of loyal States on government
account to trade within the actual military lines of the insurgents. If this is not the nature of the power conferred,
it is asked what authority did Congress intend to give the
secretary, and how was it to be exercised? There is no
difficulty in answering these questions and reaching the true
meaning of this particular provision, when we consider the
entire act, and the treasury regulations adopted to carry into
effect the 8th section, in connection with the history of the
times. The law was designed to remedy existing evils. The
mischiefs attending private trading with the enemy, even in
those parts of the insurrectionary districts which were fbr
the time within our military lines, had been seriously felt in
the conduct of the war, and the best interests of the country
required that it should cease. It was deemed important,
however, to still maintain some species of commercial intercourse with the insurgents, fbr it is well known that the
government desired to have, if it did not interfere with military operations, the products of the South, and particularly
cotton, brought within our lines. To accomplish this end,
and at the same time avoid the complications and embarrassments incidental to private trading, required the inauguration
of a new system. This was done by withdrawing from the
citizen the privilege of trading with the enemy, and allowing
the Secretary of the Treasury, with the approval of the President, to purchase through agents, for the United States, any
products of States declared in insurrection. The inquiry is
made, how could these agents purchase these products if

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES V. LANE.

Opinion of the court.

private citizens were denied the right of trading in the insurrectionary districts, whether they happened to be within the
National or Confederate military lines?, It would not do to
let the army be used for this purpose, and the only other
way left open was to hold out inducements for theinsurgents
themselves to bring their products to us.
If they could be induced to do this, we would obtain their
products which we needed, and in the manner of obtaining
them, would avoid the evils inseparable from private trading.
The inducements for the insurgents to pursue this course
were very strong, for besides the liability of having their
principal product---cotton-confiscated or destroyed, they
were, as is well known, in want of many of the necessaries
of life. They were substantially told in the Regulations of
the Treasury Department, "If you will bring your cotton
within our lines, we will not only not seize it, but will buy
it from you, and you are at liberty to go to the nearest treasury agent in -an insurrectionary district to sell it, or if you
prefer, you can leave it under the control of some one who
can go to the agent and sell it for you." If this were not
enough to accomplish the object, the President of the United
States, by way of further inducement, in an executive order
of the same date with the Treasury Regulations, said to them:
"You can purchase such articles of merchandise as you
need, not contraband of war, to one-third of the aggregate
value of the products sold by you, and return with them,
and I will guarantee you safe conduct." Why this limited
permission to buy, after the delivery of the products, unless
the privilege was for the benefit of theinsurgents? If private
persons, living in the Loyal States, could engage in a venture like this of the claimant, they would need, as he did, to
make the venture remunerative, to take with them a cargo
of goods to exchange for Southern products; but there was
no authority for this. The permission of the President is
limited to the taking of a return cargo, bought with part of
the proceeds of Southern products, previously sold and delivered to a purchasing agent of the Treasury Department.
Indeed, so particular is the direction on this subject, that the

UNITED STATES V. LANE.

[Slip. Ot.

*Opinion of the court.

military officer commanding at the place of sale, was not
authorized to permit a person who had sold Southern products to buy merchandise, unless he exhibited to him a
certificate of the purchasing agent, setting forth the fact of
the purchase and sale, the character and quantity of products, and the aggregate amount paid therefor.
Enough has been said, without pursuing this investigation
further, to show there is nothing in the act itself, the Regulations of the Treasury Department, or the order of the
President, to justify Risley in dealing in the manner he did,
with Lane. It follows, therefore, that the voyage itself was
illegal, as were the contracts and arrangements by which it
was undertaken, and that the vessel and cargo were properly
seized for being engaged in illegal trading with the enemy.
Although Risley was not authorized in making any contract with a person occupying the status of Lane, still, if he
were, he could only do it in the man ner and for the purposes
pointed out in the Treasury Regulations.
By these regulations the purchasing agent could not act
at all until the person desiring to sell Southern products
made application, in writing, that he owned or controlled
them, stating their kind, quality, and location, and then the
power of the purchasing agent before the delivery of the
products was limited to a stipulation (the form is prescribed)
to purchase, and to the giving a certificate that such application was made, and requesting safe conduct for the party
and his property.
There is nothing in the petition, or the findings of the
court below, to show that Lane complied with these provisions. On the contrary, it is clear from his own statement
that le neither owned nor controlled the cotton when he
contracted to sell it, but that, after the contract was made,
he procured it within the rebel lines. Neither the law, nor
the regulations through which it was administered, were intended to protect a speculation of this sort. The purchasing
agent had no authority to negotiate even with any one in
relation to the purchase of Southern products, unless at the
time of the negotiation he either owned or controlled them.

.Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES V.

LANE.

of the court.

0Opinion

(See Regulations for the purchase of products of insurrectionary States on government account, of September 24th,
1864, and executive order same date.)
- The Court of Claims find that no proceedings were taken
against the cotton, and that it was restored to the claimant,
but that the vessel was libelled at the instance of the United
States, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
where a decree, with costs, passed in favor of the claimant.
It is argued, and was so ruled by the court below, that this
decree concludes the United States. But the inquiry arises,
how fihr the United States are concluded by it? The record
of the admiralty court is not before us, and we only know
from the record in this case, that that court refused to render
a decree of forfeiture against the vessel, and awarded costs
against the United States.
On what ground the court put its decision-whether for
want of proof, insufficient allegations, or on the merits of
the case-we have no means of determining.
It may well be that the United States could not re-seize
the vessel, or take further proceedings against the cotton,
and yet be at perfect liberty to litigate the right of the claimant to damages, in a direct proceeding brought against them
to test that question.
There is nothing in this record to show that the Supreme
Court of this District, in decreeing to the claimant the restoration of his vessel, adjudicated on the question of his right
to damages. As that court had the power to award damages
-and the record is silent on the subject-it is clear, either
that the court refused damages, or that the claimant did not
insist on the court considering the question.
The United States are, therefore, not concluded on this
point, and the case is relieved of all difficulty.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is reversed, and
this cause is remanded to that court, with directions to enter

AN

ORDER DISMISSING THE PETITION.

