TirE

CARROLL.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

THE CARROLL.
1. Nautical rules require, that where a steamship and sailing vessel are approaching from opposite directions, or on intersecting lines, the steamship, from the moment the sailing vessel is seen, shall watch with the
highest diligence her course and movements, so as to be able to adopt
such timely measures of precaution as will necessarily prevent the two
boats coming in contact.
2. Porting the helm a point, when the light of a sailing vessel is first observed, and then waiting until a collision is imminent, before doing
anything further, does not satisfy the requirements of the law.
3. Fault on the part of the sailing vessel at the moment preceding collision
does not absolve a steamer which has suffered herself and a sailing vessel to get in such dangerous proximity, as to cause inevitable alarm and
confusion, and collision as a consequence. The steamer, as having committed a far greater fault in allowing such proximity to be brought
about, is chargeable with all the damages resulting from the collision.

Tnis was a case of collision between the schooner Loon and
the steamer Carroll, which occurred on the waters of Chesapeake Bay. The collision happened about two o'clock at
night; the night was bright, and the weight of the testimony
was, that each vessel was provided with the necessary lookouts and lights. The schooner was in her proper course down
the bay to James River, in Virginia, while the steamer was
on her way from New York to the port of Baltimore, which
the schooner had left the previous afternoon; and it was
certain that the lookout of the steamer saw the schooner at
least fifteen minutes before the accident happened. There
was no dispute about the state of the wind nor of the respective speed of the boats; and that there was fault by one
vessel or the other, was conceded by both parties. The
officers of the steamer charged the fault to the schooner, because at the moment before the collision she changed her
course, while those in command of the schooner asserted
that this change of course was taken to avoid a greater
danger, and only made when a collision was inevitable, and
that if the officers of the steamer had been attentive to their
duty the misfortune could have been averted. The only
question was, therefore, which vessel was in fault? The

Dec. 1868.]

THE

CARROLL.

Opinion of the court.

witnesses on the part of the schooner were her captain, one
Edmonson, and two common, seamen, Travis and Henry.
The chief ones for the steamer, were .Ashcom, her mate,
and one Jordan, her lookout. The testimony of all these
witnesses was given at length, and went chiefly to questions
of the exact times when particular manceuvres were ordered
or resorted to, and of the distances of the respective vessels
at those times. 'Going thus to questions of fact *merely,no
sufficient advantage would be gained by setting it out; more
particularly since the important parts of it on both sides are
so largely recapitulated in the opinion of the court, as to
make sufficiently intelligible the principles of law meant to
be established by the judgment.
The evidence in the case was limited in extent, and not as
contradictory as the evidence generally is where vessels collide. As usual, the effort of each boat was to relieve itself,
and cast the blame on the other; but there was no good reason
to think that any witness had intentionally sworn falsely.
The court below decided in favor of the schooner, and the
owners of the steamer appealed.
The case was ably argued in this court, on the evidence
and law, by Mr. J. -. Latrobe, for the appellant, and by
Messrs. Schley and Waters, contra:
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The only difficulty in cases of the kind brought by this
appeal before the court, arises out of the almost necessarily
conflicting character of the evidence; but if the court is
able to reconcile it, or if this cannot be done, can see, notwithstanding this conflict, how the matter really occurred,
then a conclusion is easily reached; for the rules of navigation which are applicable, have not only been settled by
repeated adjudication, but are now embodied iu the statute
law of the United States.*
If the two vessels in this case were approaching each
other in opposite directions, so as to involve risk of collision,
* 13 Stat. at Large, 60-61.

THE CARROLL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the duty of each was plainly marked out by law. The
steamer was required to keep out of the way, slack her speed,
or, if necessary, stop and reverse, while the schooner was
required to maintain her course, and was not justified in
changing it, unless obliged to do so to avoid a danger that
immediately threatened her. As the steamer did not keep
out of the way, and as the collision did occur, the steamer is
prirndfacie liable, and can only relieve herself by showing
that the accident was inevitable, or was caused by the culpable negligence of the schooner.
It is manifest from those facts which are not disputed that,
with proper precautions, these vessels should not have collided, and that there was blame somewhere.
Edmonson, captain of the schooner, says, that when opposite "Point-no-Point" he saw the steamer coming up the
bay, about a quarter of a mile distant. The schooner was
steering south by east, her proper course, and the steamer's
bearing from the schooner was about a point westward from
the schooner's course. The schooner held her course until
about the time of the collision, when, as it seemed inevitable,
directions were given to starboard the helm in order to ease
the blow; in consequence of which change, the blow of the
steamer was received forward of the fore-rigging instead of
in the middle of the vessel, which would have been the case
if the schooner had continued on her course.
Travis and Henry, seamen on board the schooner, corroborate this testimony.
It is true they manifestly err when speaking of time and
distance, but they were inexperienced seamen, and not very
intelligent men, and there is no good reason for discrediting
their testimony, which, in other respects, is reliable, because
they do not testify with accuracy about distance on the
water, and err in computations of time. It may well be
doubted, whether Edmonson was not mistaken in the distance he said he was from the steamer when he first saw her;
but in view of the testimony furnished from the steamer, the
point is not material.
Ashcont, the mate of the steamer, in command at the

:Dec. 1868.]

THE. COARuo i.
Opinion of the court.

time, and Jordan, the lookout, are the only witnesses on the
part of the steamer who testify as to the state of the case
prior to the collision, and they do not agree in their account
of the transaction. Ashcom says, as soon as he made the
schooner's light to be a port light, he gave the order to port
the wheel, and it was done; while Jordan says he saw the
schooner about fifteen minutes before the steamer struck
her, and reported the fact to the mate, and that the course
of the steamer was not changed until four or five minutes
before the collision. 'At the speed the vessels were then
running they could not have been more than a mile apart,
and Ashcom admits, when he first saw the schooner, she was
four or five miles off.
It is highly probable that Jordan is right as to the point
of time when the change was made, but be this as it may,
the steamer cannot escape condemnation, unless she is able
to show that there was no risk of collision, or that she
adopted suitable measures to avoid it, and that the disaster
was the result of misconduct on the part of the schooner.
The fact that the vessels did collide, explodes the theory that
there was no risk of collision, and besides, why did the mate
port his helm if in his judgment there was no risk of it? He
says this was done as soon as he saw the schooner. If so,
he believed at the time the relations of the vessels to each
other were such that they might collide, and the possibility
of it is all that is required to charge the steamer, unless she
can establish that she was without fault. There is no evidence to show that the schooner changed her course until
the peril was imminent, but the natural inquiry arises, which
boat was blamable for producing this peril? The schooner
was not, because she was obliged to keep her course. She
could not choose, because the law had chosen for her. It is
otherwise with the steamer. She could go to the right or
left, and change as often as there was, in the apprehension
of her officers, a necessity for change.
The steamer is, therefore, to blame for suffering this peril
to occur; for if it be conceded ihat the schooner was wrong
in starboarding her helm, this cannot affect her right to
VOL. Vlil.

20

THE CARROLL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

recover, as she was in other respects without fault, because
the steamer, having the right of way, put her in this predicament, and must answer for the consequences.*
It is obvious that the officers of the Carroll were either
unaware of the nature and extent of the nautical rules which
govern vessels approaching each other in opposite directions,
or were unmindful of them. These rules were establishe,
in the interest of commerce-for the protection of life and
property, and must be observed. They require, where a
steamship and sailing vessel are approaching from opposite
directions, or on intersecting lines, that the steamship, from
the moment the sailing vessel is seen, shall watch with the
highest diligence her course and movements, so as to be able
to adopt such timely measures of precaution as will necessarily prevent the two boats coming in contact. This the
Carroll, on this occasion, failed to do. Porting the helm a
point, when the light of the schooner was first observed, and
then waiting until the collision was imminent before doing
anything further, does not satisfy the requirements of the
law. The safeguards against danger, in order to be effectual,
must be seasonably employed, and in this case they were not
used until the danger was threatening. If there was fault
on the part of th" schooner, the steamer committed a far
greater fault in suflring the vessels to get in such dangerous
proximity at the moment preceding the collision, and as she
has furnished no excuse for this misconduct, is chargeable
with all the damages resulting from this collision.
DECREE AFFIRMED,

WITH INTEREST.

MILLER, J., having been absent on the argument, took
no part in the judgment.
New York and Liverpool U. S. X. S Co. v. Rumball, 21 Howard, 382.

