Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES V. SPEED.

Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES V. SPEED.
1. The War Department, by its proper officers, may make a valid contract
for the slaughtering, curing, and packing of pork, when that is the most
expedient mode of securing army supplies of that kind.
2. Such a contract, when for a definite amount of such work, is valid, though
it contains no provision for its termination by the Commissary-General
at his option.
3. The act of March 2d, 1861, requiring such contracts to bc advertised, authorizes the officer in charge of the matter to dispense with advertising,
when the exigencies of the service require it; and it is settled, that the
validity of a contract, under such circumstances, does not depend on the
degree of skill or wisdom with which the discretion thus conferred is
exercised.
4. Where the obligation of one party to a contract requires of him the expenditure of a large sum in preparation to perform, and a continuous
readiness to perform, the law implies a corresponding obligation on the
other party to do what is necessaryto enable the first to comply with his
agreement.
5. Where the plaintiff agreed to pack a definite number of hogs for defendant,
and made all his preparations to do so, and was ready to do so, but the
defendant refused to furnish the hogs to he packed, the measure of damages is the difference between the cost of doing the work and the price
agreed to be paid for it, making reasonable deductions for the less time
engaged, and for release from the care, trouble, risk, and responsibility
attending its full execution.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

The case was thus:

By an act of 14th April, 1818,* "the Commissary-General
and his assistants shall perform such duties in purchasing
and issuing of rations as the President shall direct;'" "supplies for the army (unless in particular and urgent cases the
Secretary of War should otherwise direct) shall be purchased by contract, on public notice," &c., "which contract
shall be made under such regulations as the Secretary of War
may direct." One of the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of War, and which made Rule No. 1179 in the Army
Regulations of 1863, is thus:
"Contracts for subsistence stores shall be made after due public
* 3 Stat. at Large, 426,

6, 7.

78

UNITED

STATES V. SPEED.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

notice, and on the lowest proposals received from a responsible
person who produces the required article. These agreementsshall
expressly providefor their terminationat such time as the CommissaryGeneral may direct."
By an act of March 2, 1861,* it is provided, that
"All purchases and contracts for supplies or services in any of
the departments of the government, except for personal services,
when the public exigencies do not require the immediate delivery of
the article or articles, or performance of the service, shall be made
by advertising a sufficient time previously for proposals respecting the same. When immediate delivery or performance is required by the public exigency, the articles or service may be
procured by open purchase or contract at the places, and in the
manner in which such articles are usually bought and sold, or
such services engaged between individuals."
These statutes and regulations being in fbrce, the Secretary
of War, through the Commissary-General, authorized Major
Simonds, at Louisville, in October, 1864, and during the late
rebellion, to buy hogs and enter into contracts for slaughtering and packing them, to furnish pork for the array.
On the 27th of October, Simonds, for the United States, and
Speed, made a contract, by which the live hogs, the cooperage, salt, and other necessary materials, were to be delivered
to Speed by the United States, and he was to do the work of
slaughtering and packing. The contract was agreed to be
subject to the approval of the Commissary-General of Subsistence.
No advertisements for bids or proposals was put out before
making the contract, nor did the contract contain a provision
that it should terminate at such times as the CommissaryGeneral should direct.
After the contract was made, Simonds wrote-as the facts
were found under the rules, by the Court of Claims, to beto the Conmmissary-General, informing him substantially of
its terms; but no copy of it, nor the contract itscif, was pre* 12 Stat. at Large, 220.

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES V. SPEED.

Argument for the United States.

seuted to the Commissary-General for formal approval. The
Commissary-General thereupon wrote to Simonds, expressing
his satisfaction at the progress made, and adding: "The
whole subject of pork-packing at Louisville is placed subject
to your direction under the advice of Colonel Kilburn."
The claimant incurred large expenditures in the preparation for fulfilling his contract. He also kept, during the
whole season, the full complement of hands necessary to
have slaughtered the whole 50,000 hogs within the customary season. During the season, there were furnished to the
claimant 16,107 hogs; but owing to the high price of hogs,
Simonds, with the approval of the Commissary-General,
gave up the enterprise, and refused to furnish the remainder
of the 50,000 hogs.
Upon these facts the Court of Claims held,
1st. That the Secretary of War, through the CommissaryGeneral, might authorize such a contract to be made without
a resort to the advertisement and bids proposed.
2d. That the letter of the Commissary-General was a virtual approval of the contract.
3d. That the contract was an engagement on the part of
the United States to furnish 50,000 hogs to the claimant, to
slaughter and pack at the stipulated price, and that their
failure in part to perform the same entitled the plaintiff to
recover damages.
4th. That the true measure of damages was the diffirence
between the cost of doing the work and what the claimant
was to receive for it, making reasonable deductions for the
less time engaged, and foi release from the care, trouble,
risk, and responsibility attending a full execution of the contract.
The court awarded damages accordingly to the claimant,
appealed.
and the United States
Mr. Dickey, Assistant Attorney-General,for the appellant:
1. Where Congress has intended that the government shall
embark in the business of manufacturing any of the materiel
of war, it has made special provision by law for its doing so.

UNITED STATES V. SPEED.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

It has established armories and navy-yards, and provided for
the making of arms and the building of vessels; but nowhere can be found any enactment authorizing any officer
or class of officers to embark the government in the business
of curing pork or bacon, or in the business of raising corn,
or hogs, or cattle, or horses, or mules, or asses for the army.
2. The contract is not binding upon the United States,
because it contains no provision "for the termination" of
the contract " at such times as the Commissary-General may
direct."
This contract, containing no such provision, is a contract
made in violation of the statute of 1818, and is not binding
upon the United States.
3. If the want in this contract of the provision for its
termination at such time as the Commissary-General shall
direct, does not vitiate the contract, it must be held that the
contract will be treated as containing the clause, inasmuch as
the law requires that it should contain the clause. Porkpacking and curing bacon is not within the scope of the
powers of the Secretary of War and of his subordinates,
and if the contract is regarded as containing this provision,
then there is an end of this case, for in that case it was no
violation of the contract for Simonds, with the approbation
of the Commissary-General, to terminate the contract at any
time.
4. This contract is not binding upon the United States,
because there was no advertisement for proposals before the
contract was made, as required by the act of March 2, 1861.
The Court of Claims do not find that any public exigency
required "the immediate delivery of the article, or performance of the service;" on the contrary, the very nature of
the contract shows that immediate delivery or immediate
performance was not contemplated.
5. Where a contract is made subject to the approval of
the Commissary-General, it is not binding on the United
States until it is so approved, after the commissary has full
knowledge of all the provisions and defects of the contract. It is not sufficient that he be informed "substantially

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES V. SPEED.
Argument for the United States.

of its terms," as was the fact in this case. This does not
show that the Commissary-General was informed that this
contract contained no clause for its termination at the will
of the Commissary-General; nor that the CommissaryGeneral was informed that the contract was made privately
without advertisement for proposals, as required by law and
the regulations.
6. By the terms of the contract, the United States were
not bound to furnish to the claimant any given number of
hogs. The true construction of the contract is, that claimant agreed to slaughter the "hogs presented" by the United
States, for the price per hundred pounds specified, up to the
number of 50,000 hogs.
7. Assuming the contract valid and binding upon the
United States, and that it required the United States to
furnish the full 50,000 hogs, and that it could not be terminated by the Commissary-General -yithout the consent of
the claimant, still the facts found do not show a statement
of case enabling claimant to have an action for a breach of
the contract by the United States. Though the "claimant
incurred large expenditures in the preparation for fulfilling
his contract," yet it does not appear that be completed the
necessary preparationto fulfil his contract, or that he was ever
ready at any time to slaughter a single hog. He kept, it is true,
all "the hands necessary," but it required other' things beside
hnds, and it does not appear that any one of these things
was provided.
The covenants or undertakings in this contract are clearly
mutual and dependent, and before claimant can recover for
the breach alleged, he must show a readiness, a willingness,
and an offer or his part to perform.
8. The rule for the measure of damages is not a correct
rule as applied to the facts foufid. It does not appear that
the claimant's hands were kept in idleness, or even unprofitably employed. For aught that appears, they and the
other expensive preparations were in fact more profitably
employed in slaughtering hogs for other parties, which work
could not have been performed if the government contract
VOL.VIII.

6

82

"UNITED STATES V. SPEED.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

had not been abandoned. In fact, the Abandonment of the
contract by the government may have been a source of profit
to claimant rather than of loss.
Mr.

. F. Peck, contra.

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The counsel for the appellant urges eight separate objections to this judgment, which we must notice in the order
they are presented.
1. Pork-packing and curing bacon is not , business within
the scope of the powers of the Secretary of War, or his subordinates.
If by this is meant that the War Department has no authority to enter into the business of converting hogs into
pork, lard, and bacon, for purposes of profit or sale as individuals do, the proposition may be conceded. But, if it is
intended to deny to the department this mode of procuring
supplies when it may be the only sufficient source of supply
for the army, the proposition is not sound. The Commissary Department is in the habit, and always has been, of
buying beef cattle and having them slaughtered and delivered to the forces. Is there no power to pay the butchers
who kill for their services? That is just what the claimants
contracted to do with the hogs which the government had
purchased of other parties, and it is for this butchering and
curing the meat that the government agreed to pay. The
proposition places a construction altogether too narrow on
the powers confided to the War Department in procuring
subsistence, which in time of war, as this was, must lead to
great embarrassment in the movement and support of troops
in the field.
2. The contract is not binding, because it contains no
provision for terminating it at the discretion of the Commissary-General.
This objection is based on Rule 1179 of the Army Regulations of 1863. But that has reference to contracts for the
regular and continuous supply of subsistence stores, and

:Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES V. SPEED.

Opinion of the court.

not to contracts for services or labor; and it is required because the post or force to be supplied may be suddenly removed or greatly diminished. It has no application to a
contract for a certain amount of supplies, neither more nor
less, or to do a specific job of work requiring skilled labor.
While the commissary might have insisted on a provision
in this contract that he should only be required to pay for
packing as many bogs as he chose to furnish, for which he
might in that event have been charged a higher price, he
did not do so, and cannot have the benefit of it as tlough
he had.
3. This answers also the third point, namely: that the
agreement is to be treated as though that provision were
in it.
4. That it is not binding on the United States, because
there was no advertisement for proposals to contract.
This objection is founded on the act of March 2, 1861.*
But that statute, while requiring such advertisement as
the general rule, invests the officer charged with the duty
of procuring supplies or services with a discretion to dispense with advertising, if the exigencies of the public service
require immediate delivery or performance.
It is too well settled to admit of dispute at this day, that
where there is a discretion of this kind conferred on an
officer, or board of officers, and a contract is made in which
they have exercised that discretion, the validity of the contract cannot be made to depend on the degree of wisdom or
skill which may have accompanied its exercise.t
6. The contract was not approved by the CommissaryGeneral.
The agreement contains a provision that it is subject to
the approval of that officer. The Court of Claims finds that,
while no copy of the agreement was presented to the Corn* 12 Stat. at Large, 220.
t Philadelphia & Trenton Railroad Co. v. Stimpson, 14 Peters, 448;
Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheaton, 19; Royal British Bank v. Turquand, 6 Ellis
& Blackburn, 327; 3Maclae v. Sutherland, 25 English Law and Equity, 114;
Ross v. Reed, 1 Wheaton, 482.

UNITED STATES V. SPEED.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

missary-General for formal approval, Major Simonds wrote
him a letter informing him substantially of its terms, to
which lie replied, expressing his satisfaction at the progress
made; and the court further finds as a conclusion of law
that the letter of the Commissary-General was a virtual
approval of the contract. We are of opinion that, taking
all this together, it is a finding by the court as a question of
fact that the contract was approved by that officer; and
inasmuch as neither the instrument itself nor any rule of
law prescribes the mode in which this approval shall be
evidenced, that a jury would have been justified in finding
as the court did.
6. That by the terms of the contract the United States
were not bound to furnish any given number of hogs.
Without entering into a discussion of the general doctrine
of the implication of mutual covenants, we deem it sufficient
to say that where, as in this case, the obligation of plaintifi
requires an expenditure of a large sum in preparation to
enable them to perform it, and a continuous readiness to
perform, the law implies a duty in the other party to do
whatever is necessary for him to do to enable plaintiffs to
comply with their promise or covenant. But the last article
of the agreement seems to be aii express promise to furnish
all the hogs mentioned in the contract.
7. That plaintiffs have not proved that they were ready
and willing to perform.
But the Court of Claims find this readiness, for they say
that "claimants incurred large expenditures in preparation
for fulfilling their contract, and during the whole season kept
the full complement of hands necessary to have slaughtered
the whole 50,000 within the customary season."
8. The rule for the measure of damages is not the correct
rule as applied to the facts.
What would be the true rule is not pointed out. And we
do not believe that any safer rule, or on1e nearer to that supported by the general current of authorities, can be found
than that adopted by the court, to wit: the difference between the cost of doing the work and .what claimants were

Dec. 1868.]

EX PARTE YERGER.
Statement of the case.

to receive for it, making reasonable deduction for the less
time engaged, and for release from the care, trouble, risk,
and responsibility attending a full execution of the contract.
The leading case on this subject in this country is Masterton v. Brooklyn,* and that fully supports the proposition of
the Court of Claims.

EX PARTE YERGER.
1. In all cases where a Circuit Court of the United States has, in the exercise
of its original jurisdiction, caused a prisoner to be brought before it, and
has, after inquiring into the cause of detention, remanded him to the
custody from which he was taken, this court, in the exercise of its
appellate jurisdiction, may, by the writ of habeas corpus, aided by the
writ of ceriiorari,revise the decision of the Circuit Court, and if it be
found unwarranted by law, relieve the prisoner from the unlawful restraint to which he has been remanded.
2. The second section of the act of March 27th, 1868, repealing so much of the
act of February 5th, 1867, as authorized appeals from the Circuit Courts
to the Supreme Couit, does not take away or affect the appellate jurisdiction of this court by habeas corpus, under the Constitution and the
acts of Congress prior to the date of the last-named act.

ON motion and petition for writs of habeas co?:pus and cer-

tiorari,the case being thus:
The Constitution ordains in regard to the judiciary as
follows:
"The judicial power of the United States shall be vested in
one Supreme Court and in such inferior courts as the Congress
may from time to time ordain and establish. The judicial power
shall extend to all cases in law or equity arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States," &c.
"In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers,
and consuls, and those in which a State shall be a party, the
Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction. In all the other
cases before mentioned, the Supreme Court shall have appellate
jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions, and
under such regulations as the Congress shall make."
* 7 Hill, 62.

