Dec. 1869.]

DREHMAN V. STIFLE.

Statement of the case.

the subsequent fault of the schooner, for which she is adjudged to bear the loss caused by this collision.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

DREHMAN V. STIFLE.
1. Section 4 of the constitution of Missouri, which ordains that,' No person shall be prosecuted in any civil action for or on account
of any aet by him done, performed or executed, after the first of January,
one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, by virtue of military authority vested in him by the Government of the United States, or that
of this State, to do such act, or in pursuance to orders received by him
from any person vested with such authority; and if any action or proceeding shall hare heretofore been, or shall hereafter be, instituted'against
any personfor the doing of any such act, the defendant may plead this section in bar thereof-"
is not a bill of attainder within thu meaning of that clause of the Constitution of the United States, which ordains that no State shall pass any
such bill.
2. Nor does it impair the obligation of a contract, within the meaning of
the same constitution, because, in the case of a contract relating to real
property-as, ex. gr.,. a landlord's covenant that he will keep his tenant
in possession-its effect -is to prevent a determination under particular
State statutes of a party's mere right of possession, irrespectively of the
merits of title, and where the same result might have confessedly been
lawfully brought about by the State legislature, by a repeal of the particular statute, and without impairing the obligation of any contract.
3. Semblc, that the case might be different if by giving effect to the provision, the party was precluded from asserting a title and enforcing a
right.

IN error to the Supreme Court of Missouri; the case being
thus:
In 1854, Mrs. Tyler leased to one Drehman, a house and
lot in St. Louis for twenty years, that is to say, till 1874; and
by the terms of the lease convenanted to keep the said -Drehman
in lawful possession of the premises during the term for which they
were leased to him. In 1860, Mrs. Tyler sold the fee of the
premises to one Stifle, who thus becamelandlord to Drehman,
her lessee.
In 1861, during the late rebellion, Stifle, as "!colonel of

DREHMiAN V.

STIFLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the home guards," pursuant to an order from his military
superior, took possession of the lot, removed all the buildings, and held and used the property for his own private purposes. Stifle being thus in possession and use of the property, Drehman, proceeding under the statutes of Missouri
concerning landlords and tenants, in force when the lease
was made, and still in force, brought in 1863 an action of
forcible entry and detainer against him, before a justice of
the peace, to recover possession of the premises and the value
of the rents. The section of the statute of Missouri, under
which the suit was brought, enacts that "the merits of the
title shall in no wise be inquired into, on any complaint,
which shall be exhibited by virtue of the provisions of the
act." * The justice, on the 31st of December, 1863, rendered
a judgment in his favor for restitution, for $5000 damages,
and for rent at the rate of $60 per month, to be paid from
the time of the recovery until restitution should be made,
and for costs. Stifle removed the case by appeal to the St.
Louis Land Court, where a verdict and judgment were rendered in his favor. Drehman appealed to the Circuit Court
of St. Louis County. Before, however, the case came on to
be heard there, a constitution of Mlissouri, adopted in 1865,
ordained as follows:
"No person shall be prosecuted in any civil action for or on
account of any act by him done, performed or executed, after
the first of January, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one,
by virtue of military authority vested in him by the govei'nment
of the United States, or that of this State, to do such acts, or in
pursuance to orders received by him from any person vested
with such authority; and if any action or proceeding shall hare
heretofore been, or shall hereafterbe, instituted against any personfor
the doing of any such act, the defendant may plead this section in
bar thereof."
The case coming on to be heard in the Circuit Court in
Mlay, 1866, that is to say, after the constitution containing
the above-quoted clause passed into force, Stifle relied for
his defence upon it. Drehman, on the other hand, set up

Dec. 1869.]

DREHMAN V.

STIFLE.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

that it was in the face of that clause of the Constitution of the
United States, which declares that "no State shall pass any
bill of attainder, . . . or law impairing the obligation of
contracts."
The court instructed the jury, that if the facts established
by the evidence to their satisfaction brought the case within
this provision of the constitution of Missouri, the defence
was valid, and that the defendant was entitled to the verdict.
Drehman excepted. The jury found for Stifle, and the court
gave judgment accordingly. Drehman, therefore, appealed
to the Supreme Court of the State, which affirmed the judgment, and he accordingly brought the case to this court,
under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, for review.
Mr. T.Rughes, for the plaintiff in error (a brief of Mr. J. C.
Moody being filed), contended that the clause of the Missouri
constitution, by which alone the action of Drehman was defeated, did contain the elements both of a bill of attainder,
and of a law impairing the obligation of contracts.
1. It was a bill of attainder. The constitution in which it
is attempted to be ordained, was reviewed in Cummings v.
Missouri.* In that case another clause of the same constitution sought to divest Cummings, a priest, of his power to
preach, that is to say, of his right to his profession, by requiring priests to take an oath which he could not take.
:Here another clause forbids persons to prosecute claims for
loss of property, by providing a bar to suits if pending when
the ordinance passed. Though the owner is neither charged
with nor convicted of a crime, he is deprived of his property without judicial trial as completely as if he were both
-harged and convicted. If the Convention had declared, by
ordinance, that Drehman had committed treason, and that
because of his crime his property was forfeited, and his right
of action against the defendant barred, this would unquestionably have been a "bill of pains and penalties." Is it
any less a bill of pains and penalties when it inflicts the
* 4 Wallace, 277.

IDREHMAN

V. STIFLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error."

penalty without imputing the crime as a foundation ? Does
the Constitution of the United States prohibit the bill of
attainder with a crime imputed as a pretext, and permit an
enactment containing all the essential elements of attainder,
when there is no pretext assigned ?
On this question, Cummings v. Missouri seems to us to be
conclusive.
The court there says:
"The deprivation is effected with equal certainty in one case
as it would be in the other, but not with equal directness. The
purpose of the lawmaker in the case supposed, would be openly
avowed; in the case existing it is only disguised. The legal
result must be the same, for what cannot be done directly cannot be done indirectly. The Constitution deals with substance,
not with shadows. Its inhibition was levelled at the thing, not
the name."
That depriving a man of his property is a punishment as
well as an injury, can hardly be denied since the cases of Cammings v. MissouriandExparte Garlanid.* And the same thing
is true as to depriving him of a possession secured to him by
the law even irrespectively of the question of merits. He
is deprived of a legal right; a primg facie right and title;
which may prove an absolute one in the end.
It is admitted that plaintiff had the right to the property
since 1854, by lease extending until 1874; that he obtained
two judicial determinations of that right in this cause in
1863; that an appeal was taken by the respondent from such
judicial determinations, and pending an appeal that this
constitution was adopted by the Convention. The court
below says by its instructions, that since the adoption the
plaintiff has no right to the property, or, which is the same
thing, that the respondent is protected by the new constitution in forcibly depriving the plaintiff of his property, and
that the subsequent detainer of it cannot afford any cause of
action, under the proceedings in the cause.
* 4 Wallace, 227, 333.

Dec. 1869.]

DREHMAN V. STIFLE.

.

599

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

2. It impairs the obligation of a contract. By the lease, Mrs.
Tyler covenanted to keep her tenant in lawful possession of
the premises during the whole term of the lease. This was
a contract; it became obligatory upon Stifle, by virtue of his
being the assignee of the reversion of the estate. The contract had reference to the laws of the State concerning landlords and tenants, in force when it was made and when the
suit was commenced; laws which protected the rights of the
landlord and tenant respectively. One of these laws gave a
remedy to Drehman to enforce the contract by the proceeding of forcible entry and detainer. That law was yet unrepealed and in force. In 1863 the judicial tribunals rendered a judgment against the defendant, and in favor of the
plaintiff, for possession, rents, damages, and costs, found to
be due under the contract and the laws then in force. The
ordinance pleaded in bar of this action was passed in 1865,eleven years after the contract was made, four years after
the breach alleged and liabilities had accrued, and two years
after judgment had been rendered in this caus, in favor of
the plaintiff. Yet the court says the ordinance, by its retrospective operation, is now a complete bar and defence to this
action. Before the ordinance was passed, the defendant was
adjudged to owe the plaintiff $7000, upon his obligation assumed in this contract. Since the passage the courts say that
there is no liability; that the ordinance is a complete bar,
and furnishes a new defence. Does it not impair and annul
the obligations of the contract?
Numerous authorities, as early as Sturgis v. owninshield,*
and only ending with Hawthorne v. Galeft show that it does.
Mr. Hoar, Attorney- General, and Mr. X. Blair, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here by a writ of error issued under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, to the Supreme
Court of the State of Missouri.
Drehman held the lot to which the controversy between
* 4 Wheaton, 122.

t 2 Wallace, 110.

DitEHMAN V. STIFLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

the parties relates by a lease terminating in 1874, and built
upon the premises a dwelling-house, store, and other improvements. The lessor sold and conveyed the reversion to
Stifle. The house was rendered untenantable by fire. Stifle,
as colonel of the "home guards," pursuant to an order from
his military superior, took possession of the lot, removed all
the buildings, and has since held and used the property for
his own private purposes. Thereafter, on the 22d of December, 1863, Drehman commenced an action of forcible
entry and detainer against Stifle, before a justice of the
peace, to recover possession of the premises. The justice
rendered a judgment in his favor for restitution, for a large
amount of damages, for a specified sum for rent per month,
to be paid from the time of the recovery until restitution
should be made, and for costs. Stifle removed the case by
appeal to the St. Louis Land Court, where a verdict and
judgment were rendered in his favor. Drchman appealed
to the Circuit Court of St. Louis County.
Upon the trial at that court Stifle relied fbr his defence
upon the 4th section of the constitution of Missouri, adopted
in 1865, which is as follows:
" Section 4. No person shall be prosecuted in any civil
action for or on account of any act by him done, performed
or executed, after the first of January, one thousand eight
hundred and sixty-one, by virtue of military authority
vested in him by the government of the United States,
or that of this State, to do such acts, or in pursuance to
orders received hy him from any person vested with such
authority; and if any action or proceeding shall hare herelofbre
been, or shall hereafter be, instituted against any person for the
doing of any such act, the defendant may plead this section in bar
thereof."
The court instructed the jury, substantially, that if the
facts established by the evidence to their satisfaction, brought
the case within this provision, the defence was valid and the
defendant was entitled to their verdict. Drehman excepted.
The jury found for Stifle, and the court gave judgment accordingly. Drehman thereupon appealed to the Supreme

Dec. 1869.]

DREHMAN V.

STIFLE.

Opinion of the court.

Court of the State, which affirmed the judgment, and he has
brought the case to this court for review.
Two grounds of jurisdiction here and of error below are
relied upon:
I. It is alleged that this section of the constitution of
Missouri "is a bill of pains and penalties within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, and therefore
invalid."
The Constitution of the United States declares that "no
State shall pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or
law impairing the obligation of contracts." When the Constitution was adopted, bills of attainder and bills of pains and
penalties were well known in the English law. Each of
those terms had a clear and well-defined meaning. Bills of
attainder were acts of Parliament whereby sentence of death
was pronounced against the accused. Courts of justice were
employed only to register the edict and carry the sentence
into execution. Bills of pains and penalties were acts denouncing milder punishments. The -term "bill of attainder" in the N~ational Constitution is generical, and embraces
bills of both classes.* It is too clear to require discussion
that the provision in question of the constitution of Missouri belongs to neither of the categories mentioned. If
not the opposite of penal, there is certainly nothing punitive
in its character. It simply exempts from suits in a certain
class of cases those who might otherwise be harassed by litigation and made liable in damages. It is rather in the nature of the indemnity acts, also well known in the English

law.t
IL It is insisted that this section "is a law impairing the
obligation of contracts, in violation of-the Constitution of
the United States."
This proposition is founded upon a provision in the lease
that the lessor should keep the lessee "in lawful possession
* 2 Woodeson's Lectures, 622-624; Gaines et al. v. Buford, 5 Dana, 609;
Story on the Constitution, , 1344; Ex parte Garland, 4 Wallace, 324.
- Rowland on the English Constitution, 563 : 2 May, 267, 324.

DREHMAN V. STIFLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the said leased premises during this lease," &c. It is said
that this covenant became obligatory upon Stifle by virtue
of his being the assignee of the reversion of the estate; that
the law of landlord and tenant of Missouri, in force when
the lease was executed, became a part of the contract; that
one of the remedies to which Drehman was entitled by this
law to enforce the covenant in question was the proceeding
by forcible entry and detainer; that this section of the constitution of Missouri, as construed by the Supreme Court of
the State, has deprived him of that remedy, and thus impairs the obligation of his contract. This view of the subject is supported by the counsel for the plaintiff in error
with ingenuity, research, and ability; but they have tiled
to convince us of the soundness of the proposition.
The 26th section of the statute of Missouri upon the subject of forcible entry and detainer declares as follows: "The
merits of the title shall in no wise be inquired into on any
complaint which shall be exhibited by virtue of the provisions of this act." This proceeding has no relation to the
rights of property of the parties. It turns entirely on the
facts of lawful possession by the plaintiff and unlawful entry
by the defendant. The defendant may have a valid title,
the plaintiff possession without any title; and yet the defendant, having entered without the plaintiff's consent, may
be dispossessed, and the plaintiff be restored to possession.
If a party desires to assert his title and enforce his rights,
he must resort to the remedies provided for that purpose.
This form of procedure is not one of them.* It cannot,
therefore, be maintained that this remedy entered into the
contract between the lessor and lessee. The legislature
might have abolished it, by repealing the statute, without
impairing any right within the meaning of the contract provision of the Federal Constitution, acquired while the statute
was in force. In this respect it stands on the same footing
with any other action ex delieto.
Whether the instructions excepted to were right or wrong
Gibson v. Ting, 29 Missouri, 134; Butler v. Cardwell, 33 Id. 86.

Dec. 1869.]

HEPBURN V. GRISWOLD.
Syllabus.

is an inquiry which lies beyond the sphere of our powers
and duties. If an action of covenant or ejectment had been
brought, and it had been held that the constitution of Missouri affected the right of recovery, the question would perhaps have presented a different aspect. But no such case
is before us, and we have not had occasion to consider the
subject. The right of a State legislature to pass retroactive
laws, where there is no inhibition in the constitution of the
State, provided they do not impair the obligation of a contract, and are not ex post facto in their character, is too well
settled to admit of doubt.* We find no error in the record
of which we can take cognizance.
ZD
JUDGMENT AFFIIRMED.

HEPBURN

v.

GRISWOLD.

1. Construed by the plain import of their terms and the manifest intent of
the legislature, the statutes of 1862 and 1863, which make United States
notes a legal tender in payment of debts, public and private, apply to
debts contracted before as well as to debts contracted after enactment.
2. The cases of Lane County v. Oregon, Bronson v. 1?odes, and Butler v. Horwitz (7 Wallace 71, 229, and 258), in which it was held that, upon a
sound construction of those statutes, neither taxes imposed by State
legislation nor dues upon contracts for the payment or delivery of coin
or bullion'are included, by legislative intent, under the description of
"debts, public and private," are approved and reaffirmed.
3. When a case arises for judicial determination, and the decision depends
on the alleged inconsistency of a legislative provision with the Constitution, it is the plain duty of the Supreme Court to compare the act
with the fundamental law, and if the former cannot, upon a fair construction, be reconciled with the latter, to give effect to the Constitution
rather than the statute.
4. There is in the Constitution no express grant of legislative power to make
any description of credit currency a legal tender in payment of debts.
5. The words "all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution"
powers expressly granted or vested have, in the Constitution, a sense
* Williamson v. Leland, 2 Peters, 627; Watson v. Mercer, 8 Id. 88;
Kearney v. Taylor, 15 Howard, 494; Sattelee v. Mathewson, 2 Peters, 380;
Society v. Pawlet, 4 Id. 480; Railroad v. Nesbit, 10 Howard, 401; Albee v.
May, 2 Paine, 74; Andrews v.Russell, 7 Blackford, 475.

