BLANCHARD V. PUTNAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

as that alleged in the declaration as the foundation of the
plaintiff's claim.
Mr. Justice NELSONT also dissents from the opinion and
judgment of the court, in this case, and concurs in this
opinion.

BLANCHARD V. PUTNAM.
1. Where, in a suit at law for infringement of a patent, witnesses testify to
previous invention, knowledge, or use of the thing patented, the judgment will be reversed unless an antecedent compliance with the requirements of the 15th section of the Patent Act, requiring in the notice
of special matter the names and places of residence of those whom the
defendant intends to prove possessed prior knowledge, and where the
same had been used, appear in the record. And this, although no reversal for this cause have been asked by counsel, but the case have been
argued wholly on other grounds.
2. Semble, That the only proper comparison on a question of infringement,
is of the defendant's machine with that of the plaintiffs, as described in
the pleadings; and that it is no answer to the cause of action to plead
or prove that the defendant is the licensee of the owner of another
patent, and that his machine is constructed in accordance with that
patent.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Ohio, the case being thus:
The 15th section of the Patent Act enacts, that whenever
the defendant relies in his defence on the fact of a previous
invention, knowledge, or use of the thing patented, "he
shall state in his notice of special matter, the names and
places of residence of those whom he intends to prove to
have possessed a prior knowledge of the thing, and where
the same had been used," and if he does not comply with
that requirement no such evidence can be received under the
general issue.
With this statute in force, Alonzo Blanchard and others,
being owners by assignment of a patent for an improvement
in bending wood, granted to Thomas Blanchard, December

Dec. 1869.]

BLANCHARD V. PUTNAM.
Statement of the case.

18th, 1849, reissued to him November 15th, 1859, and extended for seven years from December 18th, 1863, brought
suit at law against Putnam and others for infringement. The
defendants pleaded the general issue, but so far as the transcript of the general record showed, gave no.notice of any
special defence.
On the trial, the plaintiffs gave in evidence the original
patent, the reissue, the certificate of renewal and extension,
the assignment, and facts tending to prove the alleged infringement, and rested.
The defendants, who were licensees under a patent granted
March 11th, 1856, and reissued May 22d, 1862, to one Morris,
for an improvement in wood-bending machines, offered in
evidence the reissue.
The plaintiff objected to the admission of that evidence,
but the court overruling the objection, admitted it, and the
plaintiff excepted.
The defendants called as a witness one W. Mitchell, and
offered to prove by him, that in A.D. 1858, he saw in use at
a factory of one Andrews, in Grand Detour, in the State of
Illinois, a machine for bending plough handles, similar to a
model then shown to the witness, and asserted by the defendants to be the same in its mode of operation as the
plaintiff's patented machine;' the defendants' counsel promising thereafter to connect the said evidence with other testimony, showing such a machine to have been in public use
anterior to Blanchard's said invention. To "which evidence," said the bill of exceptions, "the plaintiff objected
as not competent or proper." But the court overruled said
objection and admitted the evidence. Other testimony was
introduced by the defendants 'tending to prove that the
machine described by the witness, or others like it, were in
public use at that place before the date of the invention
claimed and owned by the plaintiffs.
The court charged the jury at length. It told them that
the defences to the action were:
1st. That the Blanchard machine was void for want of
novelty.

BLANCHARD V. PUTNAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

2d. That the machine constructed under Morris's patent
did not infringe.
On the first defence, while stating that it was not the intention of the court to go into an analysis of the testimony
on the question of anticipation, the learned judge, nevertheless, enumerated the machines set up as prior inventions,
leaving it for the jury to pass on the question of novelty, or
the want of it.
The case was now here on exceptions.
Mr. G. M. Lee, by brief,for the plaintiff in error, observed
that the machine of the defendants, in appearance, was somewhat unlike that patented by Blanchard, and that the defendants assert that it worked on a different principle from
Blanch ard's; while the plaintiffi assert it to be the same in
principle and mode of operation as Blanchard's, and that
it is covered by Blanchard's patent and claim; that the real
question was, therefore, what construction should be given to Blanchard's patent; and that there was little else in the case.
The learned counsel then went into an examination of
"what the Blanchard patent and invention was; of its parts
and office;" of the "parts and office of Morris's patent and
the defendant's machine ;" and having shown, as he assumed,
the errors of the charge upon a true view of the case, merely
glanced at other errors, of these specifying five; the fourth
being thus:
"We claim that William Mitchell's evidence was improperly
admitted on the promise of defendant's counsel to afterwards
so connect it with other evidence as would make it admissible.
There is nothing to show it was ever so connected, and upon its face
i
it was inadmissible."
After specifying the five errors, the counsel added, towards
the conclusion, that it was not necessary to argue the effect
of the defendant's evidence showing the existence of prior
machines, though really none of them showed any want of
novelty in Blanchard; that this question became immaterial,
because the jury were not called to pass upon it; that the

Dec. 1869.]

BLANCHARD V. PUTNAM.
Opinion of the court.

court blotted out the question of novelty or state of the art
by its charge, and in substance ordered the jury to find for
defendants, because Blanchard's patent did not cover the
stationary form used by defendants as the court held.
Mr. fisher, contra, stated that the machine of the plaintiffs
was what was known in the art as a "rotating form machine,"
and the machine of the defendants what was known in the
art as the "stationary form of machine," and that the struggle of the parties in the case was upon the question of infringement, and the issue was finally resolved to the single point,
whether in view of the state of the art, the plaintiffs' patent
could be fairly construed to cover machines for bending wood
in which stationary forms were employed.
So far as the reporter perceived, the plaintiff in error nowhere alleged nor alluded to, nor asked a reversal Tor error
in receiving evidence of want of novelty, because proper
notice in writing had not been given to the plaintiff as required by the 15th section of the Patent Act, quoted at the
beginning of the statement of the case.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Damages for the infringement of letters patent may be
recovered by the patentee, or by his assignee of the whole
interest, or by his grantee of the exclusive right within and
throughout any specified district, by a suit in equity or by
an action on the case,,at the election of the holder of the
legal title.*
Letters patent were granted to Thomas Blanchard, December 18th, 1849, for a new and useful improvement in bending wood, for and during the term of fourteen years from
that date, but the specification being imperfect, on the fifteenth of N~ovember, 1859, he surrendered the patent, and
the same was reissued to him, with an amended specification, for the residue of the original term.
Granted for the term of fourteen years only, the patent
* 5 Stat. at Large, 123, 124.

BLANCHARD V. PUTNAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

expired on the seventeenth of December, 1863, but the patentee having failed to obtain from the use and sale of his
invention a reasonable remuneration for the time, ingenuity,
and expense bestowed upon the same and the introduction
thereof into use, the Commissioner of Patents renewed and
extended the patent for the term of seven years from and
after the expiration of the first term, giving it the same
effect as if it had originally been granted for twenty-one
years. Subsequent to the extension of the term the patentee deceased, and the patent was reissued to his executrix,
from whom the plaintiffs derive title by virtue of al assignment in due form, as is conclusively admitted by the defendants.
Undoubted owners of the title to the patent the plaintiffs,
on the twenty-third of November, 1865, instituted this suit,
and the charge is that the defendants, on the second of November of the previous year, and on divers other days and
times between that day and the commencement of the suit,
infringed the exclusive right to the invention vested in the
plaintiffs, by constructing and using ten machines for bending wood in imitation of the plaintiffs' invention, and in violation of the exclusive right secured to them in their letters
patent. Process was issued, and being duly served the defendants appeared and pleaded the general issue, and upon
that issue, unaccompanied by any notice to the plaintiffs of
any special defence, the parties went to trial, and the verlict
and judgment were for the defendants.
Exceptions were duly taken by the plaintiffs to certain
rulings of the court in adnitting evidence offered by the
defendants, and to the instructions of the court, as given to
the jury, and the only questions presented for decision are
such as are involved in the exceptions to those rulings and
instructions.
On the trial of the cause the plaintifl, to sustain the issue
on their part, introduced in evidence the reissued patent on
which the suit was founded, together with the original patent and the certificate of renewal and extension; and having proved the assignment and introduced evidence tending

Dec. 1869.]

BLANCHARD V. PUTNAM.
Opinion of the court.

to prove that the defendants had infringed the reissued patent, as alleged in the declaration, rested their case.
They might well rest in that state of the case, as the letters patent afforded primd facie evidence that the patentee
under whom they claimed was the original and first inventor of what is therein described as his improvement, and
having introduced evidence tending to show infringement
and damage, they were entitled to a verdict unless some evidence was introduced by the defendants to rebut the evidence given to prove infringement, or to establish some
valid defence to the cause of action set forth in the declaration.
Influenced doubtless by that view of the case, the defendants offered in evidence the reissued patent granted to one
John 0. Morris, dated May 27, 1862, as the foundation for
the introduction of evidence to show that the machine or
machines which they were. using were constructed by them
under a license from the patentee in that patent, and in accordance with the specification and claims of that patent as
reissued. Seasonable objection was made by the plaintiffi
to the introduction of that patent, as evidence in the case,
but the court overruled the objection and admitted it in evidence, and the plaintiffs excepted.
Such evidence was inadmissible for the purpose for which
it was offered, and should have .Jbeen excluded, as the novelty of the invention was not open, and because it presented
on the question of infringement an immaterial issue not involved in the pleadings, and because the evidence was well
calculated to mislead the jury by withdrawing their attention from the real subject-matter in controversy.*
Apart from the question of damages two issues only were
presented by the pleadings, and they were all which are involved in any similar case:
1. Whether the patentee in the patent on which the suit
is founded is the original and first inventor of the alleged
improvement, which the plaintiffs in this case established as
* Corning et al. v. Burden, 15 Howard, 271.

BLANCHARD V. PUTNAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

a prinidfaciepresumption when they introduced in evidence
the letters patent described in the declaration.*
2. Whether the machine of the defendants infringes the
plaintifi' machine as described in the specification and
claims of their letters patent.
Attempts are often made in the trial of patent cases to
introduce such collateral issues on the question .of infringement, but they are irregular and cannot be sanctioned, as
the only proper comparison, on that issue, is of the defendants machine with that of the plaintiff, as prescribed in the
pleadings. What the jury have to determine is, does the
machine of the defendant infringe the machine of the plaintiff; and if it does not, then the defendant is entitled to a
verdict; butif it does infringe the plaintiff's machine, then
the plaintiff is entitled to his remedy, and it is no answer to
the cause of action to plead or prove that the defendant is
the licensee of the owner of another patent, and that his
machine is constructed in accordance with that patent.
Controversies between litigants in court cannot be completed in that way, nor should the plaintiff be subjected to
such outside issues, as he is clearly entitled to a verdict
when he has proved that he is the original and first inventor of his improvement, and that the defendant has infringed his patent.t
Suppose the rule in that respect is otherwise, still the
judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, as the next
exception to be considered is clearly well taken, and the error
of the court is of such a character that it cannot be remedied
in any other way than by granting a new trial.
Testimony was ofibred by the defendants to prove the existence and use, in 1858, at Grand Detour, in the State of
Illinois, of a machine for bending plo-ugh handles, similar
to a model shown to the witness under examination, and
which, as is claimed by the defendants, was the same in its
mode of operation as the patented machine of the plaintiffs.
*

Curtis on Patents, { 118; Pitts v. Hall, 2 Blatchford, 229; Cahoon v.

Ring, 1 Clifford, 625.
t Curtis on Patents,

350, 353; Carver v. Manuf. Co., 2 Story, 432.

Dec. 1869.]

BLANCHARD V. PUTNAM.
Opinion of the court.

Objection was seasonably made by the plaintiffs to the
admissibility of the, testimony, but the defendants stating
that they expected t6 connect the same with the other testimony showing that the machine was in public use anterior
to the invention described in the plaintiffs' patent, the court
overruled the objection and admitted the testimony, and the
bill of exceptions shows that other testimony was introduced
by the defendants tending to prove that the machine described by the witness, or others like it, were in public use
at that place before the date of the invention claimed and
owned by the plaintiffs.
Evidence to prove such a defence is not admissible in any
case without an antecedent compliance with the conditions
specified in the fifteenth section of the Patent Act. Whenever the defendant relies in his defence on the fact of a previous invention, knowledge, or use of the thing, patented,
"he shall state, in his notice of special matter, the names
and places of residence of those whom he intends to prove
to have possessed a prior knowledge of the thing, and where
the same had been used," and if he does not comply with
that requirement no such evidence can be received under
the general issue.*
'Unless the rule of law was so the plaintiff might often be
surprised at the trial, as he would rely upon the presumption which the patent affords, that he or his assignor or
grantor was the original and first inventor of the improvement in question, and would not think it necessary to summon witnesses to rebut the evidence introduced by the defendant attacking the novelty of his patent.t
Other exceptions to the rulings of the court were taken
by the plaintiffs to the same effect, but it is unnecessary to
refer to them, as the charge of the court shows to a demonstration, that the court throughout the trial overlooked the
fact that such evidence is not admissible in patent cases,
unless it appears that the defendant, thirty days before the
trial, gave notice in writing to the plaintiff, or his attorney,
5 Stat. at Large, 123; Teese v. Huntingdon, 23 Howard, 10.
t Agawam Co. v. Jordan, 7 Wallace, 596.

BLANCHARD V. PUTNAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of his intention to give such special matter in evidence, as
required in the fifteenth section of the Patent Act, and that
the notice given constituted a compliance with the several
conditions therein specified.
Compliance with that provision being a condition precedent to the right of the defendant to introduce such evidence,
under the general issue, it necessarily follows that the onus
probandi is on him to show that the required notice was given
to the plaintiff thirty days before the trial, and if he fails to
do so he cannot introduce any evidence to controvert the
novelty of the patent.*
Undoubtedly the plea of not guilty puts in issue the
novelty of the invention as well as the charge of infringement, but the answer to that suggestion, as applied to this
case, is that the letters patent, when introduced by the plaintiffs, afforded a primn facie presumption that the assignor of
the plaintiffs was the original and first inventor of the improvement, and as the defendants had not given to the
plaintiffs the required notice that they intended to offer evidence at the trial to overcome that presumption, they had
no right to introduce any such evidence, and it necessarily
follows that the court had no right to submit any such question to the jury.
Two defences, said the court, are interposed by the defendants: (1.) That the patent is void for the want of novelty.
(2.) That the machine constructed and used by the defendants does not infrin ge the patented machine of the plaintiffs;
and the charge proceeds throughout upon the ground that
both of those defences were open and were to be determined
by the jury.
Extended remarks were made by the judge to the jury,
upon the evidence produced by the defendants to impeach
the novelty of the invention, and very full explanations were
given to them in respect to the principles of law by which
they were to be governed in determining that question.
Most of the rules of law as stated by the judge are correct,
*Philadelphia

and Trenton Railroad Co. v. Stimpson, 14 Peters, 459;

Silsby v. Foote, 14 Howard, 222; Phillips v. Page, 24 Id. 168.

Dec. 1869.]

BLANCHARD V. PUTNAM.

Opinion of Swayne, Grier, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

but the difficulty is that no such questions were involved in
the pleadings.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

NEW VENIRE ORDERED.

Mr. Justice SWAY--E, with whom concurred GRIER
and MILLER, JJ., dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the conclusion reached by the
majority of my brethren, and will state briefly the grounds
of my dissent.
The judgment is reversed, because no notice of the special
matters which were proved to the jury is found in the record.
If a sufficient notice had been given to the plaintiffs, according to the statute, the testimony was unquestionably proper
to be received. It is shown by the bill of exceptions, that the
admission of the evidence was objected to, but upon what
ground, except as to one item mentioned hereafter, does not
appear. The objection may have had reference to several
considerations other than the want of notice. The case
was tried in all respects as if no such defect existed. If due
notice had not been given, and that fact had been brought
to the attention of the learned district judge who tried the
case, it cannot be doubted that he would at once have excluded the evidence, or have admitted it only after the defect
had been properly supplied. It nowhere appears in the case
that such an objection was made in the court below. A
series of instructions were asked by the plaintiffs' counsel,
and refused by the court; neither of them has any reference
to this point. The court was not asked to rule out the evidence, nor to direct the jury to disregard it. The point was
not made in this court by the counsel for the plaintiffs in
error. Other errors were strenuously insisted upon, but
nothing was said upon this subject. Other objections to the
admission of the testimony excepted to in the court below
were fully discussed here, but there was entire silence as to
the want of notice. The discovery that there is no notice in
the record, was made after the cause had been argued and
submitted to this court, and the objection does not now

480

HoME

OF THE FRIENDLESS V. ROUSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

come fi'om the plaintiffs in error. It is not of a jurisdictional
character.
Upon a careful examination of the record, it seems to me
doubtful whether any of the testimony in question required
a notice to authorize its introduction,* except that of
Mitchell, which was objected to upon a distinct and different
ground. But, conceding this to be otherwise, under the
circumstances, I think these propositions apply:
1. We are bound to presume that a proper notice was
before the court below. This suggestion derives additional
weight from the fact that the statute requires the notice to
be given to the plaintiff, and does not prescribe that it shall
be filed in the clerk's office, or made part of the record. In
some of the circuits the practice has been heretofore simply
to produce and prove it at the trial.
2. If there were no such notice, it was waived by the
plaintifs in error, and they are concluded by their conduct.t
3. The objection not having been made in the court below,
according to the settled rule and practice of this court, it can
not be made here.t
4. The plaintiffs in error not having made the objection,
this court ought not to make and enforce it for them. They
have not suffered, and do not complain. The interests ofjustice do not require such vicarious and voluntary action on the
part of this court. The counsel for the defendant in error
has had no notice and no opportunity to be heard. I think,
therefore, that the judgment ought not to be reversed.

HOME OF THE FRIENDLESS V. RoUSE.
1. A statute which, for the declared purpose "of encouraging the establishment of a charitable institution," and enabling the parties engaged in
thus establishing it " more fully and effectually to accomplish their

laudable purpose," gave to the institution a charter, and declared by it
* Corning v. Burden, 15 Howard, 252.

j- Laber v. Cooper, 7 Wallace, 569.

1lb.

