Dec. 1869.]

ALDRICH V.

ETNA COMPANY.

491

Statement of the case.

But, independent of any consideration respecting the character of the contract, it nowhere appears that the claimants
suffered any damages from the supposed injury alleged.
They did not offer to deliver any ice at New Orleans, and it
is not shown that they secured any for such delivery, or, if
they secured any, that they were unable to part with it at
prices as remunerative as those they might have obtained at
New Orleans.
The appeal is frivolous, and the decree of the court beAFFIRMED.
low is
ALDRICH V. .fTNA COMPANY.
1. A judgment in the highest court of law or equity of a State, if otherwise
a proper subject for review here, under the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act, is not rendered incapable of being reviewed by the fact that judgment was rendered on a voluntary submission of a case agreed on for
judgment, under the provisions of the code of the State.
2. An allowance of a writ of error by the chief judge of the court in which
the judgment was, in fact, rendered, is not ground for dismissing the
writ of error, though the record, by order of such court, may have been
sent to an inferior court, and an additional entry of what was ddjudged
in the appellate one there entered.
8. A defendant, who has waived the irregularity by an appearance, cannot
object to jurisdiction, because the citation is not signed by the judge who
allowed the writ of error.
4. When the question in the highest court of law or equity of a State is
whether the mortgage of a vessel, duly recorded under an act of Congreis, givesa better lien than an attachment issued under a State
A statute,
and the decision is, that it does not; a proper case exists for review in
this court, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
5. The mortgage of a vessel, duly recorded, under an act of Congress, cannot be defeated by a subsequent attachment, under a State statute, enacting, that no mortgage of such property shall be valid, as against the
interests of third persons, unless possession be delivered to and remain
with the mortgagee, or the mortgage be recorded in a manner specified,
in which a mortgage, whose lien in this case was the subject of controversy, was not. WVhite's Bank v. Smith (7 Wallace, 646) affirmed.
ERROR

to the Court of A ppeals of New York.

The code of pro~edure of the State of New York* thus
enacts:
.

372, 374.

ALDRICI

V.

2ETNA

COMPANY.

[Sill. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"Parties to a question of difference, which might be the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case
containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and
present a submission of the same to any court which would have
jurisdiction, if an action had been brought. But it must appear, by affidavit, that the controversy is real, and the proceeding in good faith to determine the rights of the parties. The
court shall, thereupon, hear and determine the case, at a general term, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were
depending."
" The judgment may be enforced in the same manner, as if it
had been rendered in an action, and shall be subject to an appeal
in like manner."
With these provisions of the code in force, the zEtna Insurance Company, as plaintiff, and one Aldrich and others,
as defendants, agreed upon a case for the Superior Court of
Buffhlo as follows:
"Aldrich and the others sold and conveyed the schooner Stella,
on the 4th of February, 1856, at Chicago, to one Jacobs, and on
the same day, took a mortgage of the vessel back to secure the
payment of $6000 of the purchase-money. The mortgage was in
due form, and was recorded in the office of the collector, at the
port of Chicago, where the vessel was permanently enrolled, and
where one of her owners resided. The purchase.money was payable in sums of five hundred, and of ten hundred dollars, extending through the years 1856, 1857, and to March, 1858. Jacobs,
the purchaser, who resided in Chicago, immediately took possession of the vessel, which was in port, and employed her on
the lakes till attached in Buffalo by the insurance company, on
the 11th December, 1856, for a debt against him.
"At the time of the execution of the mortgage, there was a
statute of the State of Illinois, which enacted, that 'no mortgage on personal property shall be valid, as against the rights
and interests of any third person or persons, unless possession
of such personal property shall be delivered to and remain with
the miortgagees, or the said mortgage be acknowledged and
recorded, as hereinafter directed.' This mortgage had been
neither acknowledged nor recorded, according to the require.
ments of this statute."

Dec. 1869.]

ALDRICH V.

ffTNA

COMPANY.

493

Statement of$ the case.

It was agreed by the parties, in settling their case, that if
the decision should be in favor of the company (the plaintifts), that judgment should be given against the defendants

for $476 and interest, but if in favor of the defendants, then
judgment against the plaintiff for costs.
The court at a general term at Buffalo rendered a judgment in favor of the plaintiff. The cause was removed to
the Court of Appeals, the highest court of the State of New
York, where the judgment was affi'med, and the proceedings remitted to the Superior Court at Buffalo, in which the
judgment of affirmauce was entered of record. The case
was then brought before this court on writ of error; it
being purported to be brought here under the 25th section
of the Judiciary Act, which gives this court jurisdiction to
review upon a writ of error judgments in the highest court
of a State, where there has been drawn in question the
validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under the
United States, and the decree is against their validity; or
wh~re there is drawn in question the construction of any
statute of the United States, and the decree is against the
title, right, or privilege, or exemption specially set up; or
where there is drawn in question the validity of a statute of,
or an authority exercised under any State on the ground of
their being repugnant to the laws of the United States, and
the decision is in favor of such their validity;-" the citation," says this 25th section, "being signed by the chief justice, or judge, or chancellor of the court rendering or passing the judgment or decree complained of, or by a justice of
the Supreme Court of the United States."
The writ in this case was allowed by Chief Justice Davies
of the Court of Appeals of New York, and was addressed
to the Superior Court of Buffalo. The citation was signed
by Mr. Justice Miller of this court.
The case being here, the questions were,
I. As to jurisdiction.
I. As to merits.
I. On the point of jurisdiction objection was taken to the
jurisdiction,

ALDRICH

V.

ffTNA

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

1st. On the ground that the judgment, which the writ of
error purported to bring here, had not been rendered in a
suit within the words of the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act, but was rendered on a voluntary submission without
siit, containino a statement of facts agreed on by the parties, under the code of procedure in New York.
2d. That it did not appear on the face of the record that
the validity of a statute or law of the United States, or of
the statute of a State as repugnant to such law, or that the
construction of any statute of the United States was drawn
in question.
3d. That the writ of error was allowed by the chief judge
of the Court of Appeals of the State of New York, the writ
being addressed to the 'Superior Court of Buffalo, where
the record was; and that the said chief judge was not authorized to allow the writ of error.
4th. That the citation was not signed by the judge who
allowed the writ of error.
Assuming jurisdiction to exist, there remained
II. The question of merits; the insurance company contending, upon this question, that the mortgage could not
be set up as against the attachment; that it was void as
against it, and that the company was entitled to a judgment
declaring the lien of the attachment paramount to that of
the mortgage. The mortgagees, represented here by Mr.
Robert Rae, maintaining on the other hand the converse of
these propositions, Mr. Rae referring to White's Bank v.
Smith* as conclusive of this part of the case.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
An objection is taken to the writ of error under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act, on the ground that the judgment is not rendered in a suit within the words of this seetion, but was rendered on a voluntary submission without
suit, containing a statement of facts agreed on by the parties, under the code of procedure in New York.
7 Wallace, 646.

Dec. 1869.]

ALDRICH V. fTNA COMPANY.
Opinion of the court.

We are of opinion that this objection is untenable. The
code simply provides for the institution of the suit or action
by the voluntary agreement of the parties, and without any
compulsory process or compulsory proceeding of any kind
against the defendant. The court are to hear and determine
the case at a general term, and render judgment thereon as
if an action were depending; and the submission can be
made only to a court which would have had jurisdiction of
the case if a suit had been brought. Cases from the State
of Louisiana not unfrequently come up here from the State
courts, where the proceedings have been instituted substantially as in the present case.
It is also objected that it does not appear on the face of
the record the validity of a statute or law of the Uhited
States, or of the statute of a State as repugnant to such law,
or that the construction of any statute of the United States
was drawn in question.
This we think a clear misapprehension of the material
question involved in the case. That question was, whether
the mortgage of the vessel to the defendants, duly recorded
under an act of Congress in the collector's office, gave a
better lien upon it than the subsequent attachment issued
out of the Superior Court of Buffalo in favor of the plaintiff. The construction of this act of Congress, and its force
and effect, as it respected the mortgage security under which
the defendants claimed a right or title paramount to that
of the attachment creditor, was necessarily in question, and
must have been passed upon by the court; and as its decision was against this right, the very case is made provided for in this section:
A further objection is taken that the writ of error was
allowed by the chief judge of the Court of Appeals of the
State of New York, which writ is addressed to the Superior
Court of Buffalo, where the record is, and who was not authorized to allow it.
The answer to this objection is, that the allowance of the
writ is well enough, as the judgment was in fact rendered
in the Court of Appeals.

ALDRICH V. -ETNA COMPANY.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It is objected also that the citation was not signed by the
judge who allowed the writ of error.
The answer is that the appearance by the defendant in
error waived the irregularity.
As to the merits. We are of opinion the question involved
was decided in the case of White's Bank v. Smith. That
was a question between two mortgages on the vessel, duly
recorded in the collector's office-the first on the 12th
June, 1863, in the collector's office at the port of Buffalo;
the second in the collector's office at the port of Sandusky,
on the 17th June, 1865.
The law existing in New York at the time of the execution *of the first mortgage was as stringent as that of the
State of Illinois in the present case in respect to the filing
of personal mortgages at a designated office, when the possession of the property does not accompany the mortgage.
White's Bank, the first mortgagee, had complied with the
law in New York, and filed his mortgage, but had omitted
to refile it at the end of the year, which was required in
order to preserve the lien.
Now the argument in the case was, that, inasmuch as the
filing of the first mortgage according to the State law was
essential to protect the lien as against subsequent purchasers
or mortgagees, the omission to refile it left the vessel free
and subject to the lien of the second mortgage. It was
upon this idea the case was disposed of at the circuit, and
the proceeds of the vessel, after discharging some prior liens
for seamen's wages, decreed to Smith, the second mortgagee.
And this was a proper disposition, upon the assumption that
the State statute governed the lien; for, although Smith
had not filed his mortgage according to the statute of Ohio,
this omission did not affect th6 question between him and
White's Bank, but only as it respected subsequent purchasers or mortgagees.
A different view was taken of the case when it came
before this court. It was held that the recording of the
first mortgage in the collector's office under the act of Con-

Dec.

1869.]

ALDRICH V. fETNA COMPANY.

497

Opinion of the court.

gress protected the interest of the mortgagee against subsequent purchasers or mortgagees by its own force, irrespective of any State law on the subject, and hence the decree
below was reversed, and the proceeds directed to be delivered over to the first mortgagee. The court regarded the
law as a registration act, which excluded all State legislation
in respect to the same subject; and, looking at the nature
and character of the species of property Congress was dealing with, we entertained no doubt as to its power to pass
this law. It was said in the opinion in that case, " Congresshaving created, as it were, this species of property, and conferred upon it its chief value under the power given in the
Constitution to regulate commerce, we perceive no reason for

entertaining any serious doubts but that this power may be
extended to the security and protection of the rights and
title of all persons dealing therein. The judicial mind seems
to have generally taken this direction."
As a registry act there can be no doubt upon the recording of the mortgage, the fact that it is not accompanied by
the possession of the vessel affords no ground of impeachment of the transaction, as the record is regarded as satisfactorily accounting for the non-delivery of the possession.
This is the law as it respects the recording or filing of personal mortgages under State statutes.*
The protection, however, goes no further, as the consideration of the instrument may be impeached for fraud or
for any other vice or infirmity in the original contract or
transaction.
The judgment of the court below is
REVERSED AND THE CAUSE REMANDED TO IT, &C.

* 2 Kent, 531, note.

VOL. VIII

