276

HUDSON CANAL Co. v. PENNA. COAL Co. [Sup. Ct.
Statement of the case.

remedy, Congress has wisely reserved the matter for its own
It certainly has not conferred it on the
determination.
Court of Claims.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HUDSON CANAL CO. V. PENNSYLVANIA COAL CO.
In the case of a contract drawn technically, in form, and with obvious attention to details, a covenant cannot be implied in the absence of language tending to a conclusion that the covenant sought to be set up was
intended. The fact that the non-implication of it makes the contract, in
consequence of events happening subsequently to its being made, quite
unilateral in its advantages, is not a sufficient ground to imply a covenant which would tend to balance advantages thus preponderating.

to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York. The case was this:
The Pennsylvania Coal Company, being engaged in mining coals from land in the northeast corner of Pennsylvania,
for which they wished to get means of easy transportation
to New York, and the Hudson Canal Company having a
canal whose capacity was not fully employed, and which
would afford the transportation desired, provided a railroad
could be made from the Coal Company's lands to the western
end, comparatively near them, of the canal, the two companies entered, under their corporate seals, into long and technically drawn articles of agreement, with recitals in the beginning, and each party's covenants contained in separate
parts of the instrument subsequently.
1. The recitals recited that an existing road, which brought
coal to the canal, was not sufficient to employ the full capacity of the canal.
2. That if the canal should be enlarged, as it might be,
its unemployed capacity would be still greater.
8. That it was for the interest of the canal company,
that in either event its surplus capacity should not remain
unemployed, but that it should be allowed to be used at a
reasonable rate of toll by any other company which might
ERROR

Dec. 1868.]

HUDSON CANAL CO. V.PENNA. COAL

Co.

277

Statement of the case.

hold lands for the purpose of mining coal, and should connect such lands by railroad or otherwise, with the said canal
for the purpose.of transportingcoal thereon.
The canal company then covenanted and agreed with the
coal company to furnish, at all times thereafter, to the boats
of said coal company, all the facilities of navigation afforded
by the canal to boats used by others, or by the canal company itself, charging only a certain toll per ton [a reduced
toll], to be regulated each year by the market value of coal;
provided, however, that the plaintiffs should not be bound
to allow the quantity transported in pursuance of the agreement to exceed, in any one season, 400,000 tons, unless the
canal should be enlarged, and in that case, one-half its capacity of transportation.
The coal company, "in consideration of the premises, and
of acts done and investments made, uiith a view to the trans*rortationof coal on the canal of the said canal company, -as
well as of the mutual undertakings herein contained, and
of one dollar paid by the managers of the said coal company," promised and agreed with the canal company to use
all its influence to cause the speedy construction of a railroad from its coal land to the canal, at or near the mouth of
the Wallenpaupack River, and that if the construction of
such road should not be commenced within one year, and
finished within three, the plaintiffs might declare the agreement null and void.
The coal company built and put in operation the railroad,
the canal company enlarged their canal so as to be sufficient for the transportation of all the coals which the coal
company could mine, and the coal company put on -the
canal its boats, which were allowed to pass at the reduced
toll agreed on. But the price of coals rising greatly during
the war, and after it, and the tolls on the canal (adjusted as,
under the articles of agreement, they were, on a sliding scale)
becoming very high, the coal company induced the New
York and Erie Railroad Company, whose road led to New
York, to make a branch road, connecting it with the railway
of the coal company at the point where this latter connected

278

HUDSON CANAL Co. v. PENNA. COAL Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the canal company.

with the canal, and on this railway the coal company now
carried a large quantity of its coal.
Hereupon the canal company sued the coal company in
covenant for damages, declaring on the articles and facts as
above set forth, and averring, moreover, that when the contract was made there were no means, either existing or contemplated, by which the coal company's coal, after being
brought to the canal, could be sent to market except on the
canal. And the question was whether, by those articles of
agreement, the coal company was bound to carry on the
canal, all its coal brought to it by the connecting railroad;
in other words, and more technical form, whether the declaration was sufficient and any cause of action shown.
It was conceded by the canal company that there was no
express covenant by the coal company to transport even a
pound of coal by the canal. The suit was founded, therefoxe, on the assumption that, according to the true construction of the agreement, there was imposed upon the coal
company, in consideration of the obligations of the canal
company, a correlative obligation on the coal company to
send its coal by the canal alone, and that the obligation of
the coal company in this respect was so plainly to be perceived in the contract that the court would enforce it as an
implied covenant, and as fully as thougL it were expressed
in words.
The court below was of the opinion there was no covenant, express or implied, on the part of the coal company,
that it would transport on the canal all the coal brought
over their iailroad connecting with the canal, and judgment
being given accordingly for the coal company, a writ of
error was taken hence.

Mr. Nash, for the plaintiff in error:
The rule is settled that though a contract may in terms
bind but one party, yet the law will imply corresponding
and correlative obligations when that is necessary to carry
out the intention of the parties and prevent the contract
from being ineffectual. Thus, "if a man engages to work

Dec. 18'68.]

HUDSON CANAL Co. v. PENNA. COAL

Co.

279

Argument for the canal company.

and render services which necessitate great outlay of money,
time, and trouble, and he is only to be paid by the measure
of the work he has performed, the contract necessarily presupposes and implies on the part of the person who engages
him an obligation to supply the work; so when there is an
engagement to manufacture some article, a corresponding
obligation on the other party is implied to take it, for otherwise it would be impossible the party bestowing his services
could claim any remuneration."*
Now, upon the recitals of the contract, after incorporating
all the matters referred to in them, the parties may be considered as making a dialogue in this wise:
Canal Company.-We have more canal capacity than we
can use, ind are likely to have more than we have now; if
you will use it we will take your coal at a reduced rate, the
rate to be a sliding scale, according to the market price of
coal each year, but this shall not apply to more than half
the capacity of the canal.
Coal Company.-But we can't avail ourselves of your offer
without building a road to connect our coal lauds with your
canal.
Canal Gompany.-To. induce you to build the road we'll
agree that the rate which we shall fix upon shall be made
permanent.
It is apparent, then, that the mutual stipulations were on
the one part, to use the canal; on the other to allow it to be
so used at a reduced rate. The inducement to build the
road was the undertaking of'the company never to repudiate the arrangement.
The consideration clause recites "the mutual undertakings
herein contained." The undertakings of the canal company
were plain enough, but unless the coal company was bound
to carry on the canal the coal brought to it on the railroad,
there was no mutual undertakings in the matter. The contract of the canal company would be void as wanting a
* Per Cockburn, 0. J., in Churchward v. The Queen, Law Reports, I
Q. B. 173, 198; and see Bdrton v. McLean, 5 Hill, 256.

280

HuDsoN CANAL CO. V. PENNA. COAL Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the canal company.

consideration. The contract, therefore, requires balancing;
and when balanced, the considerations arrange themselves
thus: reduced rate of tolls, as against the agreement to
transport a large amount of coal. Permanent reduction as
an inducement to enter into the arrangement and to build
the road, without which, as a prerequisite, the contract
could not go into effect at all.
In interpreting contracts which seem not fully to express
the obligations on both sides, the question is what each
party supposed the other party understood by the contract.
In other words, the interpretation is to be according to the
equity and fair meaning of the whole arrangement, if this
does not conflict with the positive provisions of the agreement.*

Now here there were, when this contract was made, no
means existing or thought of by which the coal after being
brought to the canal could be sent to market except on this
canal. In addition the canal was primarily for the transportation of coal. It ran into the coal region and was connected
with the coal mines by railroads. There was little miscellaneous freight. The building of the railroad therefore
tended to the benefit of the canal, not by bringing a general
traffic to it, but simply by making a new connection with
the coal fields. The mere building of the railroad, therefore, except as it might secure the use of the canal by the
coal that came over the road, was no inducement to the
canal company to subject themselves to the onerous obligations imposed by the contract..
The contract substantially requires of the canal company
to reserve for use of the coal company one-half of the capacity of the canal, and this obligation prevents the canal
company from multiplying their own connections with the
coal fields or inviting others to invest in such enterprises,
because the coal company may at any time, though they
substantially cease to use the canal, resume its use and claim
all their contract rights.
* Potter v. Ont. & Liv. Ins. Co., 5 Hill, 147.

Dec. 1868.]

HUDSON CANAL CO. V. PENNA. COAL

Co.

281.

Argument for the coal company.

If the coal company has found a route to market more
profitable than our canal, let them notify to us that they
shall abandon the contract, and claim no further benefits
under it. Then the contract falls. The ground of their
refusal to send the coal on our canal is, that at the market
price of coal, the toll becomes a high one. But with the
increased rate of wages which makes the market price of
coal high, the expense of keeping up the canal is in like
manner increased. Still the defendants insist on holding
the plaintiffs bound. This is unjust. For we are tied up
from making any engagements for the use of the canal,
which may interfere with the shifting purposes of the coal
company, and we are even required, in order to collect any
toll at all, to go through every spring with the formality of
ascertaining under the contract the rate of tolls on coal
which the coal company will send by the canal, if the rate
suits them, while if the rate does not suit them they will
send it by the New York andErie road.
Messrs. Evarts and Southrnayd, contra:
The plaintiffs' claim rests wholly upon the notion that a
covenant to the effect which he would have is raised by implication of law.
Strictly speaking, there are no implied covenants in law
save those which arise according to fixed legal rules, by the
use in instruments of a certain characterof certain words;
which when thus used, have a fixed technical signification,
beyond their natural or ordinary, meaning; or which by
fixed rules import a particular obligation, or have a specific
legail result-as where the word "give" is used in a deed,
or "grant," or "demise" in a lease-or those Wv.hich by
fixed legal rules result from particular acts or relations.*
But in construing an agreement, the court will have regard to the real intent and meaning of the parties as ascertained from the entire instrument, and by reference to the
circumstances attending the making of it, and wherever the
* Comyn's Digest, Title "Covenant,"

A. 4.

282

HUDSON CANAL Co. v. PENNA. COAL Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the coal company.

language of the writing leaves in doubt its meaning upon
the particular point, it shall be so construed, in so far as the
language will possibly permit, as to effectuate the real intent
and meaning thus ascertained. In the application of this
principle of construction, it is held, that where the language
of an instrument expresses imperfectly or obscurely an obligation, which it plainly appears to the court, the party intended thereby to assume, his obscure or imperfect language
shall be construed to impose upon him the obligation which
he intended it should impose upon him; and in some cases,
this principle of supplying defects or imperfections in the
language used in an instrument for the purpose of expressing
or defning an obligation intended to be assumed by it, has
doubtless been pushed pretty far-sometimes, perhaps, unwarrantably so.
Where a party has been held bound to an undertaking
or obligation under a sealed instrument which was thus
obscurely or imperfectly expressed upon -its face, the case is
sometimes spoken of as one of implied covenant; but it is
submitted that the expression applied to such a case is an
inaccurate one. We take note of its inaccuracy, because its
use tends to an idea which misleads as to the extent to which
the practice of supplying defects in language may be legitimately carried.
The cases in which parties have been held subject to the
obligation of a covenant, not in terms expressed in the instrument (excepting the cases of technical words which import a covenant in law),.all rest upon this principle of construing the language to effectuate the intent with which it
appears to have been used. If any case be found going
beyond the due application of this principle, we submit that
it is not good law.*
* Perdage v. Cole, 1 Saunders, 319, i; Duke of St. Albans v. Ellis, 16
East, 352; Randall v. Lynch, 12 Id. 179; Earl of Shrewsbury v. Gould,
2 Barnewall & Alderson, 489; Rhodes v. Bullard, 7 East, 116; Gerrard v.
Clifton, 7 Term, 676; Clifton v. Walmesley, 5 Id. 564; Seddon v. Senate, 13
East, 63, per Lord Ellenborough, 74; Lyell v. Newark Lime and Cement
Manufacturing Co., New York Court of Appeals Cases, March Term, 1862.

Dec. 1868.]

HUDSON CANAL CO. V. PENNA. COAL

Co.

283,

Argument for the coal company.

If the question raised by the plaintiffs upon this agreement,
is to be determined by reference to this standard, the plaintiffs must inevitably fail.
This instrument contains no language having any reference whatever to any such stipulation on the defendants'
part, as is now claimed to exist. There is no language which
either party, however careless or illiterate, could have supposed to bear any such meaning, or which could have been
used with any idea of expressing or defining any such obligation on the defendants' part. And surely a court has no
warrant for charging the defendants with such a covenant as
is here alleged, not because they have ever made it or ever
intended to make it, but upon the ground of its being a
covenant which it would have been reasonable for them to
make.
Most, if not all, of the cases-it is to be observed-in which
courts have so construed the language of an instrument as
to amount to a covenant not distinctly expressed upon its
face, have arisen upon agreements, brief in their terms, and
loosely and inartificially drawn, and in the preparation of
which it was manifest that no considerable time or care had
been bestowed.
The instrument now under consideration is drawn with
most elaborate care. The stipulations ol each side, with the
considerations moving the parties to enter into them, are
technically expressed in very full detail, each party's covenants are contained in a separate portion of the indenture;
and the design is plainly apparent that whatever was intended
to be agreed to at all, should be expressed at large in unmistakable language, and not feft to inference.
Yet, as we have already said, the instrument contains not
one word which can be supposed to have been inserted for
the purpose or with the idea of expressing any undertaking
on the defendants' part, of the nature of that with which
they are now sought to be charged.
If, upon an instrument thui planned and drawn, the court
should hold the defendants chargeable with such an undertaking as the plaintiffs claim, it would not be construction of

284

HUDSON CANAL CO. V. PENNA. COAL CO.

LSUp. Ct.

Recapitulation of facts in the opinion.

the instrument actually executed, but the mere interpolation,
by the will of the court, of a covenant which was not at all
in the minds of the parties.
[The learned counsel then analyzed the articles of agreement to show that thus examined they showed that such an
agreement as it was sought to imply, was not intended to be
made, and that they sustained the view above taken on general principles.]
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Covenant broken is the foundation of the claim of the
plaintiffs, as set forth in the declaration. Reduced to a concise statement, the alleged cause of action is that the defendants covenanted and agreed with the plaintiffs, in the articles
of agreement mentioned in the declaration, that all the coal
mined by them on their coal lands and transported over
their railroad to the place'where the railroad connects with
the canal of the plaintiffs, should be transported from that
place to tide waters upon the plaintiffs' canal, and that they
would pay to the plaintifts the toll prescribed in the agreements for the use of their canal in such transportation; and
the alleged breach is that the defendants have not kept those
covenants and agreements.
Service of the writ having been made, the defendants appeared and pleaded twelve special pleas in addition to the
plea of non esifactum. Issues were tendered by the defendants in the first, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth pleas, which
were duly joined, and the plaintiffs having demurred to the
second, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, and
thirteenth pleas, the defendants joined in the several demurrers.
Particular description of the objections taken by the plaintifis to the several special pleas demurred to is unnecessary,
as the defendants concede that they are bad if the declaration sets forth a good cause of action, but they insist that
the declaration is also bad and insufficient, and that they,
the defendants, are entitled to judgment because the first
fault in pleading was committed by the plaintifi in the

Dec. 1868.]

HUDSON CANAL Co. v. PENNA. COAL

Co.

285

Recapitulation of facts in the opinion.

declaration. Judgment in the Circuit Court was for the
defendants, and the plaintiffs sued out a writ of error and
removed the cause into this court.
Articles of agreement were concluded on the 31st day of
August, 1847, between the plaintiffs and a certain unincorporated association, called the Wyoming Coal Association,
and on the 29th of July, 1851, the parties to this suit entered
into certain other articles of agreement, in which it is recited,
among other things, that the corporation defendants, prior
to that date, had, at the request of the coal association, made
and constructed the railroad described in the first-mentioned
agreement, and that all the business and interests of the coal
association had been assigned and transferred, and become
fully vested in the said defendants, and the parties therein
covenanted and agreed with each other that the former
agreement between the coal association and the plaintiffs
shall stand, and be deemed and taken to be "the contract
of the parties to these presents in the same manner" as if
the defendant corporation had originally been the party of
the second part to the same, instead of the coal association.
Both of these agreements are incorporated into the declaration, and in determining the rights of the parties in this case,
they may both be regarded as they would be if both had
been executed by the defendants as well as by the plaintiffs,
as all the obligations contracted by the coal association have
been assumed by the defendant corporation. All covenants
upon the merits of the controversy contained in the first
agreenent, as well as those contained in the last, must be
considered as covenants between the parties to this suit; and
viewed in that light the plaintiffs covenanted and agreed
with the defendants in the first agreement to furnish, at all
times thereafter, to the boats of the defendants navigating
the canal of the plaintiffs, all the facilities afforded by the
canal company to boats used by other parties or by the
plaintiffs themselves, charging and collecting only a certain
toll per ton gross weight, to be adjusted each year and regulated in a prescribed manner by the market value of coal,
but subject, nevertheless, to the proviso that the plaintiffs

286

HIUDSON CANAL Co. v. PFNNA. COAL Co.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

should not be bound to allow the quantity of coal to bE
transported in pursuance of the articles of agreement to exceed in any one season four hundred thousand tons, unless
they should enlarge their canal; nor in that event, to exceed
one-half of the whole capacity of the canal for transportation,
exclusive of the tonnage employed in the transportation of
other articles than coal. Other covenants on the part of the
plaintiffl are contained in the original agreement, but none
of them are of a character to affbrd any aid in the solution
of the questions involved in the pleadings.
Following the covenants of the plaintiffs are certain
unimportant covenants ma'de by the defendants, but in
conclusion the defendants also promise and agree, "in consideration of the mutual undertakings herein contained,"
that they will use all their influence to cause the speedy construction of a railroad from the coal lands which they own
to the canal of the plaintiffs, to connect with the same at the
point or place therein described; and they also agree that
if the construction of such railroad shall not be commenced
within one year and be completed within three years, the
plaintiffs may declare the agreement null and void.
Based upon these two agreements the declaration alleges
that the defendants constructed the railroad therein described
and put the same in operation as therein required; that the
canal of the plaintiffs at that date did not permit the transit
of boats of a tonnage exceeding fifty tons; that relying upon
the covenants and undertakings of the defendants they immediately entered upon the work of enlarging their canal,
and that they continued to prosecute the work with diligence
and at great expense until the same was completed; that the
canal as so enlarged permits the transit of boats of the tonnage of one hundred arid twenty-five tons, makiing the
capacity of the canal for transportation, in each season of
navigation, as enlarged, eighteen hundred thousand tons;
that the defendants, claiming the benefits and privileges of
the covenants and agreements, did, after the completion of
their railroad, construct and procure a large number of boats
to be used upon the said canal in the transportation of coal

Dec. 1868.]

HUDSON CANAL. CO. v. PENNA. COAL

Co.

287

Opinion of the court.

brought over their railroad, and did thereafter for the period
therein mentioned transport all the coal which they brought
over their railroad upon the canal of the plaintiffs to its
eastern terminus at tide-water, as contemplated by the agreements; that they, the plaintiffs, have at all times been ready
and willing to furnish to the boats owned and used by the
defendants for the purpose of such transportation, all the
facilities of navigation the canal ever afforded to their own
boats, or to the boats owned or used by any other person or
company.
Such facilities were sufficient, as the plaintiffs allege, for the
transportation of all the coal mined by the defendants and
transported by them over their said railroad during the period
laid in the declaration, but the plaintiffs allege that the defendants, not regarding their covenants and undertakings to
transport all their coal, to the extent aforesaid, over the
canal of the plaintiffs, and to pay to them the prescribed rate
of toll for such transportation, did not nor would they perform that covenant and agreement, but induced another
railroad company to construct a branch road and connect
the same with their railroad at the place where the latter
road connects with the canal of the plaintiffs, and that they
thereafter, during the period alleged in the declaration, diverted a large quantity of their coal transported over their
railroad from the plaintiffs' canal, and transported the same
from the place of such connection to tide-waters over the
railroad of such other company, to the damage of the, plaintifis, as they say, in the sum of nine hundred thousand dollars.
Defects of form in the declaration or in the several pleas
filed by the defendants are waived, as it is well settled that
defects of substance only are open to a party who has pleaded
to the merits or to one who has replied to an antecedent
pleading.*

Particular examination of the several special pleas to
which demurrers were filed need not be made, as it is conceded that they were framed upon the theory that the decla* Aurora v. West, 7 Wallace, 93; Clearwater v. Meredith, 1 Wallace, 88.

288

HUDSON CANAL CO. V. PENNA. COAL CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ration is insufficient. Judgment, therefore, must be for the
plaintiffs if it be held that the declaration alleges a good
cause of action, but if not, then the judgment of the Circuit
Court must be affirmed, because if that conclusion be adopted
the first fault in pleading was committed by the plaintiffs.*
Obviously the decision of the question must depend upon
the construction to be given to the first agreement therein
set forth, as it is quite clear that the declaration is well
drawn if that agreement, when properly construed, will support the allegations that the defendants covenanted and
agreed that all the coal mined on their coal land, and transported over their railroad to the place where the railroad
connects with the canal of the plaintiffs, should be sent forward from that place to tide-waters upon their canal, and
that the defendants also covenanted and agreed that they
would pay to the plaintiffs the rate of toll therein prescribed
for the use of the canal in such transportation.
Provision is made by the agreement, it is admitted, that
the rates of toll to be charged by the plaintiffs shall be permanently reduced, and the plaintiffs contend that the defendants, in consideration of that stipulation, assumed a correlative obligation to send all their coal brought over their railroad to market upon the plaintiffi' canal. Express covenant
to that effect, it is conceded, is not to be found in the articles of agreement, but the plaintiffs contend that the obligation in that respect is so plainly contemplated by the
agreement that the law will enforce it as an implied covenant as fully as if it were expressed in appropriate words.t
Undoubtedly necessary implication is as much a part of
an instrument as if that which is so implied was plainly
expressed, but omissions or defects in written instruments
cannot be supplied by virtue of that rule unless the implication results from the lamguage employed in the instrument,
or is indispensable to carry the intention of the parties into
effect; as where the act to be done by one of the contract* Aurora v. West, 7 Wallace, 94.
f

United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 61.

Dec. 1868.]

HUDSON CANAL CO. V. PENNA. COAL

Co.

289

Opinion of the court.

ing parties can only be done upon something of a corresponding character being done by the opposite party, the law
in such a case, if the contract is so framed that it binds the
padty contracting to do the act, will imply a correlative obligation dn the part of the other -partyto do what is necessary
on his part to enable the party so contracting to accomplish
his undertaking and fulfil his contract.
Three other examples are put in the case cited which it
may be well to notice as illustrating the general principle,
and as showing its true boundary when properly limited
and applied. They were first adduced at the bar, but were
subsequently adopted and confirmed by the court in substance and effect as follows:
1. If one person covenants or engages by contract to buy
an estate of another at a given price, the law will imply a
corresponding obligation on the part of such other person
to sell, although the contract is silent as to any such obligation, as the person contracting to purchase cannot fulfil his
contract unless the other party will consent to sell.t
2. So if one person engages to work and render services
which require great outlay of money, time, and trouble, and
he is only to be 'paid according to the work he performs,
the contract necessarily implies an obligatibn on the part of
the employer to supply the work.
8. Persons often contract to manufacture some particular
article, and in such cases the law implies a corresponding
obligation on the part of the other party to take it when it
is completed according to the contract, because if it were
not so the party rendering the services and incurring the
expense in fulfilling his contract could not claim any remuneration.1
it Churchward v. The Queen, Law Reports, 1 Q. B. 195.
t Mcntyrev. Belcher, 14 Common Bench, New Series, 664; Pordagev.
Cole, 1 Williams's Saunders, 319, 1.; Whidden v. Belmore, 50 Maine, 360;
Barton v. McLean, 5 Hill, 258.
$ St. Albans v. Ellis, 16 East, 852; Randall v. Lynch, 12 East, 179;
Shrewsbury v. Gould, 2 Barnewall & Alderson, 489; Gerrard v. Clifton, 7
Term, 676; Aspdin v. Austin, 5 Q. B. 671; Great Northern Railway Co.
v. Harrison, 12 C. B. 576.
VOL. VIII.
19

290

HuDsoN CANAL Co. v. PExxA. COAL Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

4. Instruments inartificially drafted, or where the language employed is obscure, imperfect, or ambiguous, are
always open to construction, and the primary rule in all such
cases, whether the contract is or is not under seal, is the intention of the parties; but the power of a court of common
law extends no further than to collect such intention from
the language employed as applied to the subject-matter, in
view of the surrounding circumstances.*
5. Courts of law cannot incorporate into a sealed instrument what the parties left out of it, even though the omission was occasioned by the clearest mistake; nor can they
reject what the parties inserted, unless it be repugnant to
some other part of the instrument, and none of the authorities cited by the parties in this case, when properly applied,
are inconsistent with the views here expressed.t
Examined in the light of the rules here suggested, the
court is of the opinion that the articles of agreement set
forth in the declaration contain no such covenants as those
alleged by the plaintiffs as the foundation of their claim;
that the terms of the agreement do not support the allegation that the defendants ever made any such covenants, nor
that they ever agreed to pay toll except for coal actually
transported under the agreement. Language to express any
such contract is entirely wanting in the instrument, nor is
there any covenant on the part of the plaintiffs from which
any such implication can legally arise.
Reference is made by the plaintiffs to the provision of the
agreement. extending certain facilities to the boats of the
defendants and covenanting for a permanent reduction in
the rates of toll upon the plaintiffs' canal, as calling for a
different construction of the articles of agreement, but it is
quite obvious that those concessions were made as inducements to the defendants to locate and construct the contemplated railroad from their coal lands to the plaintiffs' canal,
Tipton v. Feitner, 20 New York, 425.
- Bealey v. Stuart, 7 Hurlstone & Norman, 753; Whittle v. Frankland,
2 Best & Smith, 49; Pilkington v. Scott, 15 Meeson & Welsby. 657; Rigby
v. Great Western Railway Co., 14 Id. 811; Seddon v. Senate, 13 East, 74.

Dec. 1868.] , HUDSON

CANAL

CO. V.

PENNA. COAL

Co.

291

Opinion of the court.

so as to form a continuous line of transportation from the
coal mines, over the canal, to tide-waters. Great advantages were expected to result from the completion of that
railroad, and it is qiiite evident that the plaintiffs were willing to accept the prospect of -increased freight for transportation upon their canal as affording full compensation for the
concession which they made in the articles of agreement.
Principal covenant of the defendants was that they would
use all their influence to cause the speedy construction of
the railroad, and thle plaintiffs proffered the concessions described in the agreement to encourage the enterprise and
secure its early completion.*
Support to these views might be drawn from the recitals
in the first agreement and from the proceedings of the plaintiff corporation, but it does not seem to be necessary to
pursue the subject, as the only covenant of any importance
made by the defendants was the one before mentioned, that
they would use all their influence to cause the speedy construction of the railroad; and the second agreement contains the recital that the covenant in that behalf had been
fully performed as agreed, before the second articles of
agreement were executed between the parties.
Unsupported as the declaration is by anything else contained in the record, it is clear that it must be adjudged insufficient, and as the first fault in pleading was committed
by the plaintiffs, it follows that the judgment of the Circuit
Court was correct.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

* Commonwealth v. Delaware & Hudson Canal Co., 43 Pennsylvania
State, 302.

