Dec. 1868.]

WOODRUFF

V.

PARRAM.

Statement of the case.

finds the articles already incorporated with the mass of property by the act of the importer.
Importers selling the imported articles in the original
packages are shielded from any such State tax, but the
privilege of exemption is not extended to the purchaser, as
the merchandise, by the sale and delivery, loses its distinctive character as an import.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

WOODRUFF V. PARHAM.
The term "import," as used in that clause of the Constitution which says,
that "no State shall levy any imposts or duties on imports or exports,"
does not refer to articles imported from one State into another, but
only 'to articles imported from foreign countries into the United States.
Hence, a uniform tax imposed by a State on all sales made in it, whether
they be made by a citizen of it or a citizen of some other State, and
whether the goods sold are the produce df that State enacting the law or
of some other State, is valid.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Alabama. The case being
thus:
The Constitution thus ordains:

"Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States."
"1NoState shall levy any imposts or duties on inports or exports."
"The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the immunities and privileges of citizens of the several States."
'With these declarations of the Constitution in force, the
city of Mobile, Alabana, in accordance with a provision in
its charter, authorized the collection of a tax for municipal
purposes on real and personal estate, sales at auction, and sales
of merchandise, capital employed in business and income
within the city. This ordinance being on the city statutebook, Woodruff and others, auctioneers, received, in the
course of their business for themselves, or as consignees and

WOODRUFF V. PARHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

agents for others, large amounts of goods and merchandise,
the product of ,States other than Alabama, and sold the same in
Mobile to purchasers in. the oriqinal and unbroken packages.
Thereupon, the tax collector for the city, demanded the tax
levied by the ordinance. Woodruff refused to pay the tax,
asserting that it was repugnant to the above-quoted provisions of the Constitution. The question coming finally, on
a case stated, into the Supreme Court of the State, where
the first two of the above-quoted provisions of the Constitution were relied on by the auctioneers as a bar to the suit,
the said court decided in favor of the tax. And the question
was now here for review.
Messrs. J. A. Campbell and P. fifamilton, for the plaintiffs in
error:
The question is: Can a State tax imports into it from other
States of the Union ?
That question has been answered by Chief Justice Marshall in Brown v. Maryland.* The question there was the
propriety of a license tax imposed by the State upon the
merchant, as a prerequisite of the right to sell the imported
article. After discussing the general principles involved in
the constitutional prohibition upon the State to levy imposts
or duties on imports or exports, and deciding that this tax,
though indirect in fbrm, was, in fact, a duty on imports, and
therefore illegal, he remarks:
"It may be proper to add, that we suppose the principles laid
down in this case, apply equally to importations from a sister
State."
It is true, the remark of the Chief Justice was not directly
upon the point in judgment, but it was upon a matter of almost identical character; and when regard is had to the
history of the times immediately preceding the establishment
of the Constitution, and to the causes which led to its formation-the conflicting commercial claims of the several
States, and the evils thereby produced, calling for the estab* 12 Wheaton, 449.

Dec. 1868.]

WOODRUFF V. PARtEAM.
Argument against the tax.

lishment of uniform laws, and the creation of a National
legislation which should be uniform, the land throughoutthe force of the remark falling from that emipentjudge, and
announced as the conclusion of the court, carries with it the
weight of judicial authority.
That opinion has been declared, in Almy v. California,* to
be the judgment of the court.
In that case, California, for purposes of revenue, directed
a stamp tax to be imposed on bills of lading for the transportation, from any point or place in that State to any point
or place without the State, of gold or silver in any form.
The master of a ship, then lying in that State, refused to pay
for the stamp on a bill of lading, signed by him, for the
transportation from California to New York of some gold
placed on his vessel, and was indicted for this violation of
the law. The question then was: Is this stamp act, so required to be paid by State authority, an impost or duty on
an export, within the meaning of the constitutional prohibition upon the State? It was held, by a unanimous bench,
that the tax fell within the terms of the prohibition. As in
this case, so in that, the transportation was between States:
it was from the State of California to the State of New York.
The transaction had no relation to commerce with any foreign
nation. It was between two States; they alone were concerned.
The transaction was an export from one State to another
State. It was, nevertheless, held to be a case of export; and,
therefore, protected against any interference or regulation by
mere State authority. If that be so, imports and exports
being placed by the terms of the fundamental law upon a
footing of perfect equality, as to State imposition, the import
in this case is equally protected with the export in that, and
the State law is equally void.,
Upon the authority of the two cases cited, the argument
is exhausted. The one is the complement of the other: the
two cover the whole ground of import and export into and
* 24 Howard, 169.

WOODRUFF V.

PARHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

from a State. They establish the rule, that no matter in
what form, whether by license or by stamp duty, or by any
other device, a tax may be sought to be imposed by the authority of the State upon commerce not wholly internal, the
attempt is illegal, and against the theory of National sovereignty and National control, which is established over the
whole field of afrhirs external to a State; and that this rule
applies whether the portion external to the State which seeks
to tax is connected with, or internal to a sister State, or concerns the business of a purely foreign nation. In either
event, the power to tax that commerce does not exist; it belongs alone to the General Government, to which alone is
intrusted the regulation of all those afhirs which are not
purely internal, and within the State.
And this would seem to result from the language used in
the Constitution in the grant of power to regulate commerce;
for the grant to Congress is universal.
The prohibition upon the States is correlative. They may
not coin money, or make anything but gold and silver coin
a tender; they may not make any law to impair the obligation of a contract; they may not lay imposts or duties on
imports or exports; they may not lay any duty of tonnage;
and may not make any agreement with themselves, or with
foreign powers.
The incidental powers in relation to bankruptcy, postoffices, post-roads, piracies, useful inventions, and kindred
matters, are all intrusted to the General Government.
These grants to the one, and prohibition on the other,
seem clearly to indicate where the whole power of regulation over matters purely external to a State, or common to
all, was intended to be placed.
The question here is not of pilotage, of quarantine, of
police regulations, or of any power which partakes of the
character of either. On the part of the State, it is an
attempt to tax an article brought into it from another State,
for purpose of sale: it is, so far as commerce is concerned,
a burden upon the article of import, because it is a subject
of commerce, and is used in commerce: it is, therefore, in

Dec. 1868.]

WOODRUFF V. PARHAM.
Argument in support of the tax.

its operation, a regulation of commerce; and, it is, in its
form and effect, so far as the State can make it, universalhaving a uniform operation over the whole country; for it
operates, so far as the city tax is concerned, on all articles
of import; and, so far as the State is concerned, on all
liquors coming from all the States.
* Passing by the License Cases,* where nearly every judge
gave an opinion, and where it may be difficult to say what
was adjudged, we come to the recent case of Crandall v.
Nevada,t where the right of the citizen of a State to protection, in his property and privileges, as a subject of the
National government, against injurious legislation by a State
government, is emphatically declared, and taking the various,
decisions of the court together we must admit that the right
of the citizen of each State to frequent the ports of the other
States, with his person and property, is a right of National
origin and protection, and subject alone to National regulation; that no State regulation, for whatever purpose established, can in the smallest degree impair that right; and
that all such State legislation, in the presence of this higher
right, inhering in the citizen, and springing from the National
organization, falls idle and powerless.
The power existing in Congress to regulate, its abstaining
from legislation on the subject, is as expressive an enactment
as the most positive declaration could be. It is a declaration
that the commerce between the States shall be free.
Mr. P. Phillips, contra:
If the exemption now contended forwere sustained, goods
manufactured in the State would be subject to the tax, while
goods of the same character manufactured in another State
would go free.
The Constitution, cannot be construed to present such a
result. When it declared that "the citizens of each State
*shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of
* 5 Howard, 504.

t 6 Wallace, 35; and see Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 186; Sinnot v.
Davenport, 22 Howard, 227.

WOODRUFF V.

PARHAM.

[-Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the tax.

citizens of the several States," it provided for harmony by
securing equality.
While it might be admitted, that a State cannot lay a discriminating tax, for the purpose of aiding its domestic manufactures, it would be strange, if its taxing power was so
restricted, as to work a discrimination against its own manufacturers.
But the claim as made in this case is broader still, for the
goods so brought from another State may have been imported
from foreign countries. Such goods, when sold by the importer, were subject to taxation by the State in which they
were thus imported and sold. When, then, goods thus subject to State taxation are carried to another State for resale,
by what change are they withdrawn from this power?
The individual States possess an independent and uncontrollable authority, to raise their own revenue, for the supply
of their own wants, and with the single exception of duties
on imports or exports retain that authority in the most absolute and unqualified sense.*
The prohibition against taxing "imports or exports" refers exclusively to foreign commerce. Its object, as shown
by the debates, was to secure those States, which from geographical position, could not import for themselves, from
the exercise of the taxing power of the States whose ports
they would be compelled to use.t
In the case of Pierce v. New 1[ampshire,t a barrel of gin
was purchased in Massachusetts, brought coastwise to Dover,
and then sold. The vendor was indicted under a State statute. The defendant sought to protect himself by asking a
charge to the jury, that the law was invalid, because this gin
was an import, and thus beyond the power of State taxation.
This charge was refused and the party was convicted.
On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State the same
question was made. It was again overruled, and the judgment affirmed. On writ of error to this court, it was again
Federalist, No. 32.
t

Madison Papers, 3d vol. 1445; License Cases, 5 Howard, 57.5.

5 Howard, 554.

Dec. 1868.]

WOODRUFF V. PARHAM.
Argument in support of the tax.

renewed, and was discussed at some length by both sides.
The judges gave separate opinions, but they concurred in
affirming the judgment. This result could not have been
reacLed if the gin had been an "import" within the meaning of the prohibition.
The expression relied on from the opinion in the caqe of
Brown v. Maryland, that "we suppose the principles laid down
apply equally to importations from a sister State," was not
overlooked. McLean, J., speaks of it as "a remark which
must have been made with less consideration than the other
points ruled in the case." The opinions. of Catron, Woodbury, and Daniels, JJ., are equally emphatic as to the construction of this prohibition.
The opinion of Taney, 0. J., distinguishes this case from
that of Brown v. Maryland, which related to foreign commerce, and thus concludes:
"Upon the whole the law of New Hampshire is, in my judgment, valid. For although the gin was an import from another
State, and Congress had clearly the power to regulate such importation; yet as it had not done so, the traffic may be regulated
as it is landed in its territory."
by the State as

Now it is certain that if the gin was an "import" within
the meaning of the prohibition, the question could in no wise
be affected by the action or non-action of Congress, and his
affirmance of the judgment was only possible on the ground
that he held it not to be an "import."
This question has been frequently before the Supreme
Courts of the States, and with the exception of the decision
in Louisiana, they have uniformly held the view here presented.*
The case from Louisiana is rested solely upon the authority of Almy v. California. The opinion in this case was delivered by the Chief Justice.
It is true that the record showed that the bill of lading
State v. Pinckney, 10 Riehardson, 474; Cumming v. Savannah, R. 31
Charlton, 26; Harrison v. Vicksburg, 3 Smedes & Marshall, 681 ; Beall State, 4 Blackford, 107; Padelford v Savannah, 14 Georgia, 438.
VOL. VIII.

9

WOODRUFF

V. PARHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

taxed by California was for gold shipped to New York; but
in the argument of the case no reference is made to the question now discussed, neither in the opinion is there any reference to it, nor to the decision in the License case. On the
contrary, all the illustrations used in the opinion refer to the
case of foreign commerce; and whether goods shipped
from one State to another were to be regarded as "exports"
within the prohibition is not touched upon. This case can
therefore have no influence in deciding the present controversy.
But this is not a tax on "imports" in any sense of the
term. A tax on the proceeds of sale is in the nature of a tax
on income, or on occupation measured by income, and that
a portion of such income may be derived from imported
goods can make no difference in testing its validity.*
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The case was heard in the courts of the State of Alabama
upon an agreed statement of facts, and that statement fully
raises the question whether merchandise brought from other
States and sold, under the circumstances stated, comes within
the prohibition of the Federal Constitution, that no State
shall, without the consent of Congress, levy any imposts or
duties on imports or exports. And it is claimed that it also
brings the case within the principles laid down by this court
in -Brown v. Jlaryland.t
That decision has been recognized for over forty years as
governing the action of this court in the same class of cases,
and its reasoning has been often cited and received with
approbation in others to which it was applicable. 'We do
not now propose to question its authority or to depart from
its principles.
The tax of the State of Maryland, which was the subject
of controversy in that case, was limited by its terms to importers of foreign articles or commodities, and the proposition that we are now to consider is whether the provision of
*License

Cases, 5 11oward, 576, 592.

1112 "Wheaton, 419.

Dec. 1868.]

V. PARHAM.
WOODRUFF
8
Opinion of the court.

the Constitution to which we have referred extends, in its
true meaning and intent, to articles brought from one State
of the Union into another.
The subject of the relative rights and powers of theFederal
and State governments in regard to taxation, always delicate,
has acquired an importance by reason of the increased public
burdens growing out of the recent war, which demands of
all who may be called in the discharge of public duty to
decide upon any of its various phases, that it shall 15e done
with great care and dejiberation. Happily for us, much the
larger share of these responsibilities rests with the legislative
departments of the State and Federal governments. But
when, under the pressure of a taxation necessarily heavy, and
in many cases new in its character, the parties affected by it
resort to the courts to ascertain whether their individual
rights have been infringed by legislation, and assert rights
supposed to be guaranteed by the Federal Constitution, they,
in every such case properly brought before us, devolve upon
this court an obligation to decide the question raised from
which there is no escape.
The words impost, imports, and exports are frequently
used in the Constitution. They have a necessary correlation,
and when we have a clear idea of what either word means
in any particular connection in which it may be found, we
have one of the most satisfactory tests of its definition in
other parts of the same instrument.
In the case of Brown v. Maryland, the word imports, as
used in the clause now under consideration, is defined, both
on the authority of the lexicons and of usage, to be articles
brought into the country; and impost is there said to be
a duty, custom, or tax levied on articles brought into the
country. In the ordinary use of these terms at this day, no
one would, for a moment, think of them as having relation
to any other articles than those brought from a country
foreign to the United States, and at the time the case of
Brown v. Maryland was decided-namely, in 1827-it is reasonable to suppose that the general usage was the same, and
that in dpfining imports as articles brought into the country,

WOODRUFF V. PARHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the Chief Justice used the word country as a synonyme for
United States.
But the word is susceptible of being applied to articles
introduced from one State into another, and we must inquire
if it was so used by the framers of the Constitution.
Leaving, then, for a moment, the clause of. the CGonstitution under consideration, we find the first use of any ofthese
correlative terms in that clause of the eighth section of the
first article, which begins the enumeration of the powers
confided to Congress.
"The Congress shall have power to levy and collect taxes,
duties, imposts, and excises, . . . but all duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform throughout the United States."
Is the word impost, here used, intended to confer upon
Congress a distinct power to levy a tax upon all goods or
merchandise carried from one State into another ? Or is the
power limited to duties on foreign imports ? If the former
be intended, then the power conferred is curiously rendered
nugatory by the subsequent clause of the ninth section, which
declares that no tax shall be laid on articles exported from
any State, for no article can be imported from one State into
another which is not, at the same time, exported from the
former. But if we give to the word imposts, as used in the
first-mentioned clause, the definition of Chief Justice Marshall, and to the word export the corresponding idea of
something carried out of the United States, we have, in the
power to lay duties on imports from abroad, and the prohibition to lay such duties on exports to other countries, the
power and its limitations concerning imposts.
It is also to be remembered that the Convention was here
giving the right to lay taxes by National authority in connection with paying the debts and providing for the common
defence and the general -welfare, and it is a reasonable inference that they had in view, in the use of the word imports,
those articles which, being introduced from other nations
and diffused generally over the country for consumption,
would contribute, in a common and general way, to the sup-

Dec. 1868.]

WOODRUFF VI PARHAM.
Opinion of the court.

port of the Nqational government. If internal taxation should
become necessary, it was provided for by the terms taxes and
excises.
There are two provisions of the clause under which exemption from State taxation is claimed in this case, which
are not without influence on that prohibition, namely: that
any State may, with the assent of Congress, lay a tax on imports, and that the net produce of such tax shall be for the
benefit of the Treasury of the United States. The framers
of the Constitution, claiming for the General Government,
as they did, all the duties on foreign goods imported into the
,country, might well permit a State that wished to tax more
heavily than Congress did, foreign liquors, tobacco, or other
articles injurious to the community, or which interfered with
their domestic policy, to do so, provided such tax met the
approbation of Congress, and was paid into the Federal
treasury. But that it was intended to permit such a tax to
be imposed by such authority on the products of neighboring States for the use of the Federal government, and that
Congress, under this temptation, was to arbitrate between

the State which proposed to levy the tax and those which
opposed it, seems altogether improbable.
Yet this must be the construction of the clause in question
if it has any reference to goods imported from one State
into another.
If we turn for a moment from the consideration of the
language of the Constitution to the history of its formation
and adoption, we shall find additional reason to conclude
that the words imports and imposts were used with exclusive
reference to articles imported from foreign countries.
Section three, article six, of the Confederation provided
that no State should lay imposts or duties which might interfere with any stipulation in treaties entered into by the
United States; and section one, article nine, that no treaty
of commerce should be made whereby the legislative power
of the respective States should be restrained from imposing
such imposts and duties on foreigners as their own people
were subjected to, or from prohibiting the exportation or

WOODRUFF V. PARIIAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

importation of any species of goods or commodities whatsoever. In these two articles of the Confederation, the words
imports, exports, and imposts are used with exclusive reference to foreign trade, because they have regard only to the
treaty-making power of the federation.
As soon as peace was restored by the success of the Revolution, and commerce began to revive, it became obv'ious
that the most eligible mode of raising revenue for the support of the General Government and the payment of its
debts was by duties on foreign merchandise imported into
the country. The Congress accordingly recommended the
States to levy a duty of five per cent. on all such imports,
for the use of the Confederation. To this, Rhode Island,
which, at that time, was one of the largest importing States,
objected, and we have a full report of the remonstrance addressed by a committee of Congress to that State on that
subject.* And the discussions of the Congress of that day,
as imperfectly as they have been preserved, are full of the
subject of the injustice done by the States who had good
seaports, by duties levied in those ports on foreign goods
designed for States who had no such ports.
In this state of public feeling in this matter, the Constitutional Convention assembled.
Its very first grant of power to the new government about
to be established, was to lay and collect imposts or duties on
foreign goods imported into the country, and among its restraints upon the States was the corresponding one that they
should lay no duties on imports or exports. It seems, however, from Mr. Madison's account of the debates, that while
the necessity of vesting in Congress the power to levy duties
on foreign goods was generally conceded, the right of the
States to do so likewise was not given up without discussion,
and was finally yielded with the qualification to which we
have already referred, that the States might lay such duties
with the assent of Congress. Mr. Madison moved that the
words " nor lay imposts or duties on imports" be placed in
* 1 Elliot's Debates, 131-3.

Dec. 1868.]

WOODRUFF V. PARHAM.
Opinion of the court

that class of prohibitions which were absolute, instead of
those, which were dependent on the consent of Congress.
His reason was that the States interested in this power,
(meaning those who had good seaports), by which they could
tax the imports of their neighbors passing through their
markets, were a majority, and could gain the consent of
Congress to the injury of :New Jersey, North Carolina, and
other non-importing States. But his motion failed.* In the
Convention of Virginia, called to adopt the Constitution, that
distinguished expounder and defender of the instrument, so
largely the work of his own hand, argued, in support of the
authority to lay direct taxes, that without this power, a disproportion of burden would be imposed on the Southern
States, because, having fewer manufactures, they would
consume more imports and pay more of the imposts.t So,
in defending the clause of the Constitution now under our
consideration, he says: "Some States export the produce of
other States. Virginia exports the produce of North Caiolina; Pennsylvania those of New Jersey and Delaware; and
IRhode Island, those of Connecticut and Massachusetts. The
exporting States wished to retain the powe: of laying duties
on exports to enable them to pay expenses incurred. The
States whose produce was exported by other States, were extremely jealous lest a contribution should be raised of them
by the exporting States, by laying heavy duties on their own
commodities. If this clause be fully considered it will be
found to be more consistent with justice and equity than any
other practicable mode; for, if the States had the exclusive
imposition of duties on exports, they might raise a heavy
contribution of the other States for their own exclusive emoluments."t Similar observations, from the same source, are
found in the 42d number of the Federalist, but with more
direct reference to the power to regulate commerce.
Governor Ellsworth, in opening the debate of the Connecticut Convention on the adoption of the Constitution, says:
"Our being tributary to our sister States, is in consequence of
* 5 Madison Papers, 486.

t 3 Elliot's Debates, 248.

1 2 Id. 443-4.

WOODRUFF V.

PARHAM.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

the want of a Federal system. The State of New York raises
£60,000 or £80,000 in a year by impost. Connecticut consumes about one-third of the goods upon which this impost
is laid, and consequently pays one-third of this sum to New
York. If we import by the medium of Massachusetts, she
has an impost, and to her we pay tribute."* A few (lays later,
he says: "I find, on calculation, that a general impost of five
per cent. would raise a sum of £245,000," and adds: "it is
a strong argument in favor of an impost, that the collection
of it will interfere less with the internal police of the States
than any other species of taxation.
It does not fill the
country with revenue officers, but is confined to the seacoast, and is chiefly a water operation. . . . If we do not
give it to Congress, the individual States will have it."t
It is not too much to say that, so far as our research has
extended, neither the word export, import, or impost is to be
found in the discussions on this subject, as they have come
down to us from that time, in reference to any other than
foreign commerce, without some special form of words to
show that foreign commerce is not meant. The only allusion to imposts in the Articles of Confederation is clearly
limited to duties on goods imported from foreign States.
Wherever we find the grievance to be remedied by this provision of the Constitution alluded to, the duty levied by the
States on foreign importations is alone mentioned, and the
advantages to accrue to Congress from the power confided
to it, and withheld from the States, is always mentioned
with exclusive reference to foreign trade.
Whether we look, then, to the terms of the clause of the
Constitution in question, or to its relation to the other parts
of that instrument, or to the history of its formation and
adoption, or to the comments of the eminent men who took
part in those transactions, we are forced to the conclusion
that no intention existed to prohibit, by this clause, the right
of one State to tax articles brought into it from another. If
we examine for a moment the results of an opposite doctrine,
*2

Elliott's Debates, 192.

t] 2 Id. 196.

Dec. 1868.]

WOODRUFF V. PARHAM.
Opinion of the court.

we shall be well satisfied with the wisdom of the Constitution as thus construed.
The merchant of Chicago who buys his goods in New York
and sells at wholesale in the original packages, may have
his millions employed in trade for half a lifetime and escape
all State, countyV, and city taxes; for all that he is worth is
invested in goods which he claims to be protected as imports
from New York. Neither the State nor the city which protects his life and property can make him contribute a dollar
to support its government, improve its thoroughfares or educate its children. The merchant in a town in Massachusetts,
who deals only in wholesale, if he purchase his goods in New
York, is exempt from taxation. If his neighbor purchase
in Boston, he must pay all the taxes which Massachusetts
levies with equal justice on the property of all its citizens.
These cases are merely mentioned as illustrations. But
it is obvious that if articles brought from one State into
another are exempt from taxation, even under the limited
circumstances laid down in the case of Brown v. Mtaryland,
the grossest injustice must prevail, and equality of public
burdens in all our large cities is impossible.
It is said, however, that, as a court, we are bound, by our
former decisions, to a contrary doctrine, and we are referred
to the cases of Almy v. Slate of California and Brown v. Maryland, in support of the assertion.
The case first mentioned arose under a statute of California,
which imposed a stamp tax on bills of lading for the transportation of gold and silver from any point within the State
to any point without the State.
The master of the ship Rattler was fined for violating this
law, by refusing to affix a stamp to a bill of lading for gold
shipped on board his vessel from San Francisco to New
York. It seems to have escaped the attention of counsel on
both sides, and of the Chief Justice who delivered the opinion,
that the case was one of inter-state commerce. No distinction
of the kind is taken by counsel, none alluded to by the court,
except in the incidental statement of the termini of the voyage. In the language of the court, citing Brown v. Maryland

WOODRUFF r.

[SLIP. Ct.

PARIIAM.

Opinion of the court.

as governing the case, the statute of Maryland is described
as a tax on foreign articles and commodities. The only
question discussed by the court is, whether the bill of lading
was so intimately connected with the articles of export described in it that a tax on it was a tax on the articles exported.
And, in arguing this proposition, the Chief Justice says that
"a bill of lading, or some equivalent instrument of writing,
is invariibly associated with every cargo of merchandise exported to a foreign country, and consequently a duty upon that
is, in substance and effect, a duty on the article exported."
It is impossible to examine the opinion without perceiving
that the mind of the writer was exclusively directed to foreign commerce, and there is no reason to suppose that the
question which we have discussed was in his thought. *We
take it to be a sound principle, that no proposition of law
can be said to be overruled by a court, which was not in the
mind of the court when the decision was made.*
The case, however, was well decided on the ground taken
by Mr. Blair, counsel for defendant, namely: that such a tax
was a regulation of commerce, a tax imposed upon the traiisportation of goods from one State to another, over the high
seas, in conflict with that freedom of transit of goods and
persons between one State and another, which is within the
rule laid down in Crandall v. .Nevada,t and with the authority
of Congress to regulate commerce among the States. We do
not regard it, therefore, as opposing the views which we have
announced in this case.
The case of Brown v. Maryland, as we have already said,
arose out of a statute of that State, taxing, by way of discrimination, importers who sold, by wholesale, foreign goods.
Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the
court, distinctly bases the invalidity of the statute, (1.) On
the clause of the Constitution which forbids a State to levy
imposts or duties on imports; and (2.) That which confers
on Congress the power to regulate commerce with fireign
nations, among the States, and with the Indian tribes.
* The Victory, 6 Wallace, 382.

t 1b. 35.

Dec. 1868.]

eWOODRUFF V. PARHIM.
Opinion of the court.

The casual remark, therefore, made in the close of the
opinion, "that we suppose the principles laid down in this
case to apply equally to importations from a sister State,"
can only be received as an intimation of what they might
decide if the case ever came before them, for no such case
was then to be decided. It is not, therefore, a judicial decision of the question, even if the remark was intended to
apply to the first of the grounds on which that decision was
placed.
But the. opinion in that case discusses, as we have said,
under two distinct heads, the two clauses of the Constitution
which he supposed to be violated by the Maryland statute,
and the remark above quoted follows immediately the discussion of the second proposition, or the applicability of the
commerce clause to that case.
If the court then meant to say that a tax levied on goods
from a sister State which was not levied on goods of a similar character produced within the State, would be in conflict
with the clause of the Constitution giving Congress the right
"to regulate commerce anong the States," as much as the
tax on foreign goods, then under consideration, was in coniflict with the authority "to regulate commerce with foreign
nations," we agree to the proposition.
It may not be inappropriate here to refer to the License
Cases.*
The separate and diverse opinions delivered by the judges
on that occasion leave it very doubtful if any material proposition was decided, though the precise point we have here
argued was before the court and seemed to require solution.

But no one can read the opinions which were delivered without perceiving that none of them held that goods imported
from one State into another are within the prohibition to

the States to levy taxes on imports, and the language of the
Chief Justice and Judge McLean leave no doubt that their
views are adverse to the .proposition.
We are satisfied that the question, as a distinct proposition
* 5 Howard, 504.

WOODRUFF V.

PARHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Nelson, J., dissenting.

necessary to be decided, is before the court now for the first
time.
But, we may be asked, is there no limit to the power of
the States to tax the produce of their sister States brought
within their borders? And can they so tax them as to drive
them out or altogether prevent their introduction or their
transit over their territory?
The case before us is a simple tax on sales of merchandise,
imposed alike upon all sales made in Mobile, whether the sales
be made by a citizen of Alabama or of another State, and
whether the goods sold are the produce of that State or some
other. There is no attempt to discriminate injuriously
against the products of other States or the rights of their
citizens, and the case is not, therefore, an attempt to fetter
commerce among the States, or to deprive the citizens of
other States of any privilege or immunity possessed by citizens of Alabama. But a law having such operation would,
in our opinion, be an infringement of the provisions of the
Constitution which relate to those subjects, and therefore
void. There is also, in addition to the restraints which those
provisions impose by their own force on the States, the unquestioned power of Congress, under the authority to regulate commerce among the States, to interpose, by the exercise of this power, in such a manner as to prevent the States
from any oppressive interference with the free interchange
of commodities by the citizens of one State with those of
another.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice NELSON, dissenting.
I am unable to agree to the judgment of the court in this
case. The naked question is, whether a State can tax the
sale of an article, the product of a sister State, in the original package, when imported into the former for a market,
under the Constitution of the Uni.ted States? If she can,
then no security or protection exists in this government
against obstructions and interruptions of commerce among
the States; and, one of the principal grievances that led to

Dec. 1868.]

WOODRUFF V. PARHAMI.
Opinion of Nelson, J., dissenting.

the Convention of 1787, and to the adoption of the Federal
Constitution, has failed to be remedied by that instrument.
And hereafter (for this is the first time since its adoption
that the clause in question has received the interpretation
now given to it), this inter-state commerce is necessarily left
to the regulation of the legislatures of the different States.
We think we hazard nothing in saying, that heretofore the
prevailing opinion of jurists and statesmen of this country
has been that this commerce was protected by the clausethe subject of discussion-namely: "No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on
imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary
for executing its inspection laws."
An attempt was made by the State of Maryland, in 1821,
to lay a tax upon foreign imports, but which was pronounced
unconstitutional by this court after .an elaborate argument
of counsel and a very full and carefully considered opinion
of Chief Justice Marshall, concurred in by the whole court,
and he closed it by saying: "It maybe proper to add, that
we suppose the principles laid down in this case to apply
equally to importations from a sister State." A tax was
attempted by the State of California, in 1857, upon an export from that State to the State of New York, but was
pronounced unconstitutional by this court, the opinion delivered by the late Chief Justice. He observed: "If the
tax was laid on the gold or silver exported (it was in form a
stamp tax on the bill of lading), every one would see that it
was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
which, in express terms, declares that ' no State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties ol
imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary
for executing its inspection laws.' " Again he observes:
"In the case now before the court, the intention to tax the
export of gold and silver, in the form of a tax on the bill of
lading, is too plain to be misunderstood."
It is now said, however, that tlis clause relates only to
fdreign commerce, and is no prohibition against taxation
upon commerce among the States; and, as we have already

WOODRUFF V.

PARHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Nclson, J., dissenting.

said, if this be so, it is left to the unrestricted imposition by
a State of duties, or tax, upon all articles imported into the
same from sister States. In looking at this clause, it will be
seen that there is nothing in its terms, or connection, that
affords the slightest indication that it was intended to be
confined to the prohibition of a tax upon foreign imports.
Surely, if this had been intended, it must have occurred to
the distinguished members of the Convention, it would be
quite important to say so that the prohibition might not be
misunderstood, especially when we take into consideration
the eminent men who not only discussed and settled the
terms and meaning of the clause, but to whom the whole
instrument was committed for special and final revision. It
would have been easy to have made the clause clear by
affixing the word "foreign" before the word "imports."
Then the clause would read "foreign imports," that now is
affixed, by construction, a pretty liberal one of the fundamental charter of the government.
The same clause also provides: "No State shall, without
the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage," &c. Does
this also relate to tonnage employed in foreign trade? If so,
then it will be competent hereafter for the States to levy a
tax upon the tonnage of vessels employed in carrying on
commerce among the States, including the tonnage employed
in the coasting trade. But, independently of the terms of
the clause and the connection in which it is found, why
should not the prohibition extend to imporls ami exports of
commerce among the States? At the time of the Convention and formation of the Constitution the States were independent and foreign to each other, except as bound together
by the feeble " leagne of friendship" in the Articles of Confederation in 1777, the second article of which provided,
that "' each State retains its sovereignty, fireedom, and independence, and every power, jurisdiction, and right which is
not by this Confederation expressly delegated to the United
And the only specified
States in Congress assembled."
restraint then submitted to in respect to their commercial
relations is tound in the third section of the article, namely:

•:Dec. 1868.]

WOODRUFF V. PARHAM.
Opinion of Nelson, J., dissenting.

"No State shall lay any imposts or duties which may interfere with any stipulations in treaties entered into by the
U;1ited States, in Congress assembled, with any king, prince,
or state, in pursuance of any treaties already proposed by
Congress to the courts of France and Spain." There is
another provision relating to commerce among the States in
the fourth article, to which we shall hereafter refer.
Now, as is seen, at the time the delegates assembled in
1787 to form the Constitution, they represented States that
for all the substantial purposes of government were foreign
and independent, and especially so in respect to all commercial relations among them, or with foreign countries. Looking at this condition of things, and to the delegates in the Convention representing such constituencies, is it reasonable or
consistent with proper rules of construction to suppose, in
the absence of any indication from the words of this clause
prohibiting the tax on imports or exports, the members used
the terms with exclusive reference to foreign countriesthat is, countries foreign to the States-and not in reference
to the States themselves? We again ask, if this distinction
was intended, why was not the clause so framed as to indicate it on its face, and not left to mere conjecture and speculation ?
Again, at the time the Convention was assembled, as it has
been ever since and now is, the commerce among the States
was many fold greater, and vastly more productive of wealth,
independence, and happiness of the people, than all the foreign commerce of the country. Its magnitude and importance, therefore, invited protection and encouragement far
beyond that of foreign commerce, and could not, and did
not, escape the particular care and. attention of the menibers of the Convention. Besides the clause in question, it
is provided in the ninth section that "no tax or duty shall
be laid on articles exported from any State. No preference
shall be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue to
the ports of one State over those of another; nor shall vessels bound to or from one State be obliged to enter, clear,
or pay duties in another." And in the clause conferring

WOODRUFF V. PARHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Nelson, J., dissenting.

upon the Federal Government the general power over commerce, it is given, in terms, "to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the several States." The two are
tlaced upon the same footing without any discrimination.
The power is equally broad and absolute over the one as over
the other. No distinction is made between foreign and
inter-state commerce, and why should the specific prohibitions to be found in the Constitution in relation to this subject receive a different interpretation in the absence of any
words indicating any such distinction? Take, as an example, the prohibition upon the Federal Government: "No
tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State."
Is this clause, also, to receive the narrow and strained construction given to the one in question, and be applied only
to exports to a foreign country ? If so, then Congress may
tax all exports from one State to another. If the ternis in
the clause before us do not embrace inter-state commerce,
then the above clause does not. As was said by the Chief
Justice in Brown v. Maryland,* "There is some diversity in
the language, but none is perceivable in the act which is prohibited." Now, this is a prohibition or limitation upon the
general commercial power conferred upon Congress, but if
it only applies to foreign commerce, it loses more than half
its efficiency as heretofore supposed to belong to it.
We will now recur to a provision in the Articles of Confederation to which we have heretofore alluded. It is the
fourth section : "The better to secure and perpetuate mutual
friendship and intercourse among the people of the different
States in this Union, the free inhabitants of each of these
States shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities
of free citizens of the several States, and the people of each
State shall have free ingress and regress to and from any
other State, and shall ejoy therein all the prit'ileqes of trade anl
comMerce, subject to the same rcstrictionsas the inhabitants thereof,
respectively."
It will be seen the last clause of this article contains the
doctrine of my brethren in the case before us.
*

12 Wheaton, 445.

Dec. 1868.]

WOODRUFF V. PARHAM.
Opinion of Nelson, J., dissenting.

The people of one State have the right of egress and regress
to and from any other for the purposes of trade and commerce, and the articles may be taxed by the State into which
they are carried; but there must be no discrimination. We
have gone back to the Articles of Confederation, and have
incorporated into the Constitution, by construction, a provision w"hich the framers of that instrument had rejected awholly inadequate for the protection of inter-state commerce.
Instead, therefore, of adopting this article into that instrainent, they adopted a more complete and thorough security
to the enjoyment of the privileges of this commerce-" no
State shall, without the consent of the Congress, lay any
imposts or duties on imports or exports."
Why this change? If there had been no diversity of soil
or climate in the States of the Confederacy, or in the mineral
riches of the earth, any commercial regulation among them
would have been of little importance. Foreign trade and
commerce would have been their only dependence for a
market of their surplus productions. The products would,
as a general rule, have been common among all the States.
But the fact was otherwise. From the diversity of soil and
climate the Middle and Eastern States were mostly graingrowing States, and their surplus products were flour, pork,
beet, butter, and cheese, with a modicum of the manufacture
of woollens.
The Southern States were cotton, tobacco, and rice-growing
States. It was the exchange of these commodities that constituted the bulk of inter-state commerce.
V:jrginia and North Carolina looked to the Middle and
Eastern States for their products iu exchange for tobacco,
tar, rosin, and turpentine; South Carolina and Georgia for
their cotton and rice. Now, the provision in the Articles
of Confederation securing egress and regress for the purposes
of trade and commerce furnished no protection to either
State. New York and Pennsylvania could lay a tax upon
all sales of cotton, tobacco, or rice within these States, which
would be a tax without any discrimination; and yet it would
be in fact, in its operation and effect, exclusively upon these
VOL. VIII.

10

WOODRUFF V. PARHAM.

[ Su p. 0t.

Opinion of Nelson, J., dissenting.

Southern products. So in respect to the wheat, flour, pork,
beef, butter, and cheese, when shipped to these Southern
States. Each State not producing the article sold, the general
tax would not affect their people. We have no doubt the case
before us falls within this category.
Alabama is a cotton-growing State, and depends upon the
Northern States bordering on the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers
for most of her corn, wheat, and flour. She cannot be, therefore, a State largely engaged iii the manufacture of whiskey.
The tax, so far as regards her own people, is probably nearly
nominal. We see from the above view why this non-discriminating article in the Confederation was not incorporated
into the Constitution. It was entirely worthless as a protection against the taxation of the inter-state commerce.
The same results will follow, applying the principle to
commerce among the States as it exists at the present time.
The State of Pennsylvania supplies New York with the
article of coal from her mines which is consumed in that
State. The trade is very great, and is increasing every year
as the facilities for the conveyance of the article by railroads
into the interior of the State are multiplied. According to
the judgment of the court in the present case, the State of
New York may tax these sales if she makes no discrimination. She may, therefore, pass a law imposing a tax on all
sales of coal in the State, as the State of Alabama has done
in respect to sales of whiskey. Such a law may be passed
and enforced without imposing any burden upon her own
people, as there is no coal of any comparative value in the
State but what is brought into it from abroad. So, in turn,
Pennsylvania can tax the salt and plaster of New York.
carried into that State, with like impunity to her people.
Massachusetts may tax the grain and flour of the West,
carried into the State, by a like law, as she does not raise a
sufficient supply for home consumption, and a general tax
upon all sales would not harin her people. In like manner
she can tax the cotton and rice of the Southern States, and
sugar of Louisiana, and those in turn can tax her cotton,
woollen manufacture, and shoes carried into those States.

Dec. 1868.]

V.PARHAMf.
WOODRUFF v.
Opinion of Nelson, J., dissenting.

The lumber of Wisconsin can be taxed at Chicago, its principal mart, by a general law of Illinois, without any serious
prejudice to the interests of the people of that State. The
gold dust and gold and silver bars of California carried to
New York can be taxed upon a like principle without prejudice to her people.
We have extended this discussion much further than we
had intended, and will close it by referring to the views.
expressed by Judge Story on this clause of the Constitution.
After stating the history of the clause in the Convention, he
observes, in his valuable Commentaries on the Constitution :*
"So it seems that a struggle for State powers was constantly
maintained, with zeal and pertinhcity, throughout the whole
discussion. If there is wisdom and sound policy in restraining the United States (referring to the prohibition upon it in
respect to articles exported from the State) from exercising
the power of taxation unequally in the States, there is, he
observes, at least equal wisdom and policy in restraining the
States themselves from the exercise of the same power injuriously to the interests of each other. A petty warfare of
regulation is thus prevented which would rouse.resentments
and create dissensions to the ruin of the amity of the States,
The power to enforce their inspection laws is still retained,
subject to the revision and control of Congress. So that
sufficient provision is made for the convenient arrangement
of the domestic and internal trade whenever it is not injurious to the general interests."
Judge Story entertained no doubt but that this clause
applied to the domestic and internal commerce of the States,
as well as to the foreign. We have, therefore, the deliberate
opinions of Marshall, and Taney, and Story concurring in
this construction-great names in this and in every country
where jurisprudence is cultivated as a science, and especially
eminent at hbme as expounders of our constitutional law.
* Vol. i,

1016.

