Dec. 1869.]

THE :BALTIMORE.
Syllabus.

"To permit the judge to make a statement of facts, on which
the case shall be heard here, after the case is removed to this
court by the service of the writ of error, or even after it is
issued, would place the rights of parties, who have judgments of
record, entirely in the power of the judge, without hearing and
without remedy. The statement of facts, filed without consent
of the parties, must be treated as a nullity; and, as there is
nothing of which error of the court below can be predicated,
the judgment must be affirmed."
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
In order to show error in the proceedings in the Circuit
Court, the counsel of the plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff
below, has referred to a bill of exceptions taken by the defendant to the ruling of the court admitting evidence, offered
by plaintiff against defendant's objection. If there was error
in the ruling, it was at plaintiff's request, and to the prejudice of defendant, and can form no ground of reversing the
judgment, which, notwithstanding this testimony, was for
the defendant.
Counsel also attempts to impugn the judgment, as not
being supported by the facts of the case, and relies on what
purports to be a statement of the facts found by the court.
But the statement is filed in the court several days after the
issue and service of the writ of error in this case, and is,
therefore, a nullity, as we decided in the case of Generes v.
Bonnemer.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE BALTIMORE.
1. Restittio in integrum is the leading maxim as to the measure of damages
in cases of libel in admiralty, for injury to vessels, for collision: in other
words, where repairs are practicable, the general rule is, that the damages shall be sufficient to restore the injured vessel to the condition in
which she was at the time the collision occurred. And this rule does
not allow deduction, as in insurance cases, for the new materials furnished in the place of the old.

L-ed 4R

THE

B3ALTIMORE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. Although, if a vessel be sunk by collision in so deep water, or otherwise so
sunk, that she cannot be raised and repaired, except at an expense equal
to or greater than the sum which she would be worth when repaired,
the rule cannot apply, still the mere fact that a vessel is sunk is not, of
itself, sufficient to show that the loss is total, nor to justify the master and
owner in abandoning her and her cargo.
8. Courts of admiralty cannot properly allow counsel fees to the counsel of
a gaining side in admiralty, as an incident to the judgment, beyond the
costs and fees allowed by statute. Under the statute now regulating
the fees of attorneys, solicitors, and proctors (the statute, namely, of
26th February, 1853, 10 Stat. at Large, 161), a docket fee of twenty
dollars may be taxed, on a final hearing in admiralty, if the libellant
recover fifty dollars, but, if he recovers less than fifty dollars, only ten.

TuE schooner Woolston, with a cargo of coal, and the
steamer Baltimore, collided in the Potomac, on the 16th of
December, 1863, and the schooner and her cargo sank. The
owners of the schooner accordingly libelled the steamer in
the Admiralty Court of the District. The libel averred that
the collision had been caused wholly by the steamer's fault,
and that the schooner had sunk in such deep water as to
make both her and her cargo a total loss, since tie cost of
raising either, or both, would be greater than its or their
value.
These allegations, both as to the fault and the total loss,
the answer explicitly denied. The testimony as to the question of fault, need not be stated, since it appeared that a
part of it was given below, was not in the record sent to
this court, and the court therefore did not pass at all upon
the merits. On the other matter, the matter of total loss, it
rather showed that the water in which the schooner went
down, was not so deep but that her masts were visible
eighteen feet above th water, and that her position, as she
lay, was clearly discernible.
No proof was given of the fact of a total loss, further than
that the vessel sunk.
The court, regarding the steamer as in fault, entered a decree for the libellants, and, upon the report of a commissioner, decreed, as damages, notwithstan ding exceptions by
the respondents, the full value of the schooner and cargo,
at the time of the collision, and awarded to the libellant's

Dec. 1869.]

Tim

BATLTIMORE.

Argument for the steamer.

counsel $500 as a fee. This decree having been affirmed by
the Supeeme Court in general term, the case was now here
on appeal.
Mr. .Ashton,for the appellant:
I. The most palpable error in law of the court below, and
one considerable, as respects amounts, relates toihe assessment of damages.
The true measure of the damages in this case, was the
expense of raising and repairing the vessel, so as to make
her equal to the value before the collision, and the expense
of raising the cargo, and the amount of any deterioration
which it might have undergone in consequence of the sinkinkg.
Mr. Justice Grier, in a collision case in the third circuit,*
forcibly observes:
"This is not the first instance in which I have had to notid'e
that where one vessel has been so unfortunate as to come into
collision with another, the parties injured suppose that the
insurance doctrine of abandonment will apply to their case, and
they may, therefore, increase the damages by their own neglect.
We are all wise after the event, and if a judge can point out how
the accident might have been avoided, the unfortunate party is
condemned to pay the damage. But this amount cannot be increased by the negligence or folly of the injured party. The
the amount it would cost to repairthe
only measure of damages "is
damage, with some allowance for demurrage."
In that case, the District Court had allowed the difference
between the value of the vessel, before the collision, and the
amount realized by the owners by a sale of the hull, after the
collision. The decree was reversed by the Circuit Court,
and the amount which it would have cost to repair the vessel was alone allowed.
This principle was directly adjudged to be the correct one
by this court, in the case of The Calharine,t where the court
said, that in a case of a vessel sunk by a collision, the inquiry
* The Harriet Rogers, A. D. 1867; 3 Wallace, Jr.

t 17 Howard, 174; and see Williamson v. Barrett, 13 Id. 101.

880

THE BALTIMORE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the schooner.

to be made is, as to the practicability of raising the vessel
and cargo, and repairing the former, and that the expense
attendant thereon is the principal ingredient of the damage
proper to be allowed. The court, in that case, condemn the
principle which governed the court below in the present
case, in respect to the damages; that is, that the owners of
the schooner had a right to abandon her as a total loss, and
look to the steamer for compensation. With this authority,
there is no use of discussing further the law.
The libel here alleged a total loss. The answer denied it.
There was no evidence before the court on the point. It
was not proved; and yet the court, without evidence, gave
the full damages claimed. But this is not all. All the evidence in the case shows that the vessel probably, and the
cargo certainly, which was coal, might have been raised.
Numerous witnesses for the libellants spoke of having seen
the masts, recognizing their color, and also of having seen
sails of the schooner above water, as late as June, 1864, the
collision having occurred in December, 1863.
No effort was made by the libellants to raise either vessel
or cargo; and no proof given to show that this was impossible, or that the cost would have been greater than their
value. Of course, the coal could have been taken out without much expense.
For these reasons alone, the decree should be reversed,
and the case remanded for an inquiry as to the actual damage
sustained, according to the legal principles heretofbre applied
by this court.
[The counsel then went into an argument on the merits,
unnecessary to be reported, as the judgment here was given
on an assumption made for this hearing alone, that on this
point the decree was correct.]
II. The counsel fee was, perhaps, not warranted by any
statute, or entirely correct practice. But the error, as to the
measure of damages, is the error which we insist on.
Messrs. Williams and Fendall, contra, contended,
I. That while, of course, this court now had, under any

Dec. 1869.]

THE BALTIMORE.
Opinion of the court.

circumstances, the right to review on appeal, cases in admiralty, and to reverse decrees of the Circuit Court upon them,
yet that the decree of the judge who heard the cause in the
first instance having been in favor of libellants, and that decree having been affirmed by a full court at the General
Term, and testimony supporting their decision, the decree
would not be reversed on mere doubts raised here.*
II. That the vessel was sunk in so deep water that nothing
but the top of her masts could, even by the testimony of the
libellant's witnesses, be seen; and that, under those circumstances, she was so far worthless, as that she might be
properly abandoned to the wrongdoers who struck and sunk
her; that such parties had no right to call on the injured
party to undertake a task desperate, or nearly so.t
II. That the allowance for fees to counsel in admiralty
was correct, as was decided both in The Apollon,j and in
Canter v. The Ocean Insurance Company.§
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, since the
passage of the act of the 3d of March, 1803, cannot be
brought here for re-examination in any other mode than
by appeal; and the provision is, "that upon such appeal, a
transcript of the libel, answer, depositions, and all other
proceedings, of what kind soever in the cause, shall be transmitted to" this court. Prior to that time, the judgments
and decrees of the Circuit Courts in civil actions and suits
in equity, whethur brought there by original process, or
transferred there from the courts of the several States, or
from the -District Courts, could only be removed into this
court for revision by writ of error; and the further provision
was, that there should be no reversal in this court for any
error in fact, which still continues to be the rule of law in
respect to all cases brought here from the Circuit Courts by
writs of error.
* Newell v. Norton, 3 Wallace, 267; The Hypodame, 6 Id. 223.

t The Columbus, 3 W. Robinson, 158; The Eugenie, 1 Lushington, 139.
3 Peters, 307.
$ 9 Wheaton, 362.

THE BALTIMORE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Power to reverse for error, in fact, any judgment or decree
of a Circuit Court brought here for revision, being absolutely
prohibited, it became necessary to prescribe some mode by
which the facts in equity suits and in cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction should be ascertained and embodied
in the record, and it was accordingly provided in the 19th
section of the Judiciary Act, that it should be the duty of
the Circuit Courts in such cases to cause the facts on which
they founded their sentence or decree fully to appear upon
the record in some one of the modes therein described, and
while that provision remained in force this court had no
more right to re-examine the facts found in such a case than
the court possesses in a.common law suit where the facts are
found by the verdict of ajury.*
Appeals, however, are now allowed to this court by the
amendatory act, in all such cases where the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum or value of $2000, and so
mtich of the 19th section of the Judiciary Act as provided for
the finding of the facts in the Circuit Court, and so much of
the 20th section of the same act as provided that such cases
should be removed into this court by writs of error, are repealed.
Viewed in the light of the repealing clause in that act,
and the requirement that the transcript shall embrace the
depositions as well as the pleadings and proceedings in the
case, it is evident that Congress intended that this court
shall hear and determine the whole merits of the controversy.
Provision is also made by that act, that new evidence may be
received by this court, in admiralty and prize causes, which
shows to a demonstration that the facts, as well as the law
of the case, are open to revision on the appeal.
Where the appeal involves a question of fact, the burden
is on the appellant to show that the decree in the subordinate
court is erroneous, but it is a mistake to suppose that this
court will not re-examine the whole testimony in the case,
as the express requirement of the act of Congress is, that
* 1 Stat. at Large, 84; 2 Id. 244.

Dec. 1869.] ,

THE BALTIMORE.
Opinion of the court.

the Supreme Court shall "hear and determine such appeals,"
and it is as much the duty of the court to reverse the decree
from which the appeal is taken for error of fact, if clearly
established, as for error of law.
Appeal was taken in this case from the decree of the Supreme Court of the District affirming the decree of the District Court, sitting as a court of admiralty in a cause of
collision, civil and maritime.
By the transcript, it appears that the owhers of the schooner
J. W. Woolston filed a libel in rem against the steamer Baltimore, her engine, machinery, boats, apparel, tackle, and furniture, claiming damages as for a total loss of the schooner
and her cargo, consisting of two hundred tons of coal, and
also for the loss of the freight on the cargo, and for the loss
of the equipment of the schooner.
Bound on a voyage from Philadelphia to the port of Washington, the schooner, when the collision occurred, was coming up the river Potomac towards her port of destination.
Though cloudy, the night was not very dark, and the
schooner bad a light at her bow, under the jib-boom, and
she had two good lookouts properly stationed in the forward
part of the vessel. She was steering west-northwest, with
all her sails set, and was proceeding safely on her voyage
up the river under a good breeze, when the lookouts descried the steamer beading in a southeasterly direction, and
coming down the river, and the charge in the libel is, that
the steamer, when she was not more than three hundred
yards from the schooner, suddenly changed her course, came
down on the schooner, and struck her near midships, and
caused her to sink in the deepest part of the channel. Due
vigilance, it is alleged, was practised by the schooner to
prevent the collision, and that it was occasioned solely by
the gross negligence and culpable mismanagement of the
steamer.
Pursuant to the warrant issued for the purpose, the steamer
was arrested and the claimants appeared and gave a bond
for her value in the sum of $8350. In their answer they
admit that the state of the wind and the weather at the time

THE BALTIMIORE.

k[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the collision is correctly described in the libel, but they
allege that the proper course of the schooner in coming up
the river was northwest by west half west; that instead of
pursuing that course she was heading, when first seen by
the steamer, diagonally across the river; that the bell of the
steamer was immediately rung and her engine stopped, but
that it was too late to avoid the collision ; that the collision
was wholly occasioned by the fault and carelessness of those
in charge of the schooner in attempting to cross the bows
of the steamer instead of keeping their course, as they were
bound to do by the well-known rules of navigation.
I. Testimony was taken on both sides, but the court is
not inclined to decide the merits of the controversy, as the
clear inference f'om the certificate of the clerk is, that the
whole testimony taken in the District Court is not contained
in the copy of the record transmitted to this couft. Although
the record in that behalf is apparently defective and incomplete, still the court deems it proper to determine some of
the questions presented for decision, as otherwise it may
hereafter become necessary to send the case back a second
time.
Directions were given to the commissioner to whom the
cause was referred, in the decretal order, to take proof of
the value of the schooner, her cargo, furniture, and fixtures,
at the time she collided with the steamer, and also to inquire
into the damage which thereby accrued to the libellants,
and the cost of the suit, including an allowance for fees to
the counsel of the libellants, and to report the same to the
court.
Agreeably to those directions the commissioner heard the
parties and reported that the libellants were entitled to recover $5000 for the actual value of the schooner at the time
she was sunk, $1521.96 for the value of the cargo, $200 for
the value of the furniture and fixtures, $450 fbr the loss of
freight, and $100 for profits on the cargo, together with costs
of suit, including $500 as an allowance for fees to the counsel
of the libellants.
Exceptions were duly taken by the claimants to the report

Dec. 1869.]

THE BALTIMORE.
Opinion of the court.

of the commissioner, setting forth thereto three objections:
(1.) That the finding as to the value of the vessel is*erroneous.
(2.) That the allowance of counsel fees is unauthorized. (3.)
That the allowance for profits on the cargo is incorrect.
Both parties were heard, and the court sustained the third
exception, but overruled the first and second, and confirmed
the report, striking out the $100 for profits on the cargo.
II. Suppose the libellants are entitled to recover, still the
claimants insist that the rule of damages adopted by the
District Court is erroneous.
Owners of ships and vessels are not now liable for any
loss, damage, or injury by collision occasioned without their
privity or knowledge, beyond the amount of their interest
in such ship or vessel and her freight then pending.* Subject to that provision in the act of Congress, the damages
which the owner of the injured vessel is entitled to recover
are estimated in the same manner as in other suits of like
nature for injuries to personal property, and the owner,
as the suffering party, is not limited to compensation for
the immediate effects of the injury inflicted, but the claim
for compensation may extend to loss of freight, necessary
expense incurred in making repairs, and unavoidable detention.t
"Bestilutioin integrum is the leading maxim in such cases,
and where repairs are practicable the general rule followed
by the admiralty courts in such cases is that the damages
assessed against the respondent shall be sufficient to restore
the injured vessel to the condition in which she was at the
time the collision occurred; and in respect tp the materials
for the repairs the rule is that there shall not, as in insurance
cases, be any deduction for the new materials furnished in
the place of the old, because the claim of the injured party
arises by reason of the wrongful act of the party by whom
the damage was occasioned, and themeasure of the indemr* 9 Stat. at Largb, 635; The Niagara, 21 Howard, 26.
t 1 Parsons on Shipping, 538; Maude & Pollock on Shipping, 411; The
Ann Caroline,2 Wallace, 588; Tindall -. Bell, 11 Meeson & Welsby, 232.
VOL. VIII

25

THE B ALTIMOR E.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

nification is not limited by any contract, but is coextensive
with the aimount of the damage.*
Such repairs, in consequence of a collision, may enhance
the value of the vessel and render her worth more than she
was prior to the accident, and in that state of the case the
rule in insurance cases is that one-third of the value of the
new material is deducted, because the new material is more
valuable than the old, but the rule is not so where the repairs are required in consequence of a culpable collision.t
Restitution or compensation is the rule in all cases where
repairs are practicable, but if the vessel of the libellants is
totally lost, the rule of damage is the market value of the
vessel (if the vessel is of a class which has such value) at
the time of her destruction.t
Allowance for freight is made in such a case, reckoning
the gross freight less the charges which would necessarily
have been incurred in earning the same, and which were
saved to the owner by the accident, together with interest
on the same from the date of the probable termination of
voyage.§
Evidence, however, that the injured vessel is sunk is not
of itself sufficient to show that the loss was total, nor is it
sufficient to justify the master and owner in abandoning the
vessel or the cargo unless it appears that the circumstances
were such that the vessel could not be raised and saved, or
that the cost of raising and repairing her would exceed or
equal her value after the repairs were made.
Experience shows that in many cases where the injured
vessel is sunk, especially when the disaster happens in rivers
or harbors, the vessel may be raised at moderate expense,
and that the cargo, if not perishable, may be saved and re*

Williamson v. Barrett, 13 Howard, 110; The Gazelle, 2 W. Robinson,

281; Sedgwick on Damages (4th ed.), 541; MacLachlan on Shipping, 285.
f The Clyde, Swabey, 24; The Pactolus, lb. 174; The Catharine, 17
Howard, 170.

$ The Clyde, Swabey, 23; 1 Parsons on Shipping, 542; The Granite
State, 3 Wallace, 310; The Ann Caroline, 2 Id. 538; The Rebecca, BI..& H.
347 ; The New Jersey, Olcott, 444.
The Canada, Lushington, 586.

Dec. 1869.]

THE BALTIMORE.
Opinion of the court.

stored to the shipper, or carried forward to the port of destination, and the rule in such cases is to award such damages
only as will compensate the owners for the loss incurred,
which is held to include the expense of raising the vessel
and putting her in repair, with a proper allowance for the
loss of freight and for the damage to the cargo, and for the
detention of the vessel during the time necessary to make
the repairs and fit the vessel to resume her voyage.*
Justice as well as sound policy forbids that the owner of
a vessel sunk by collision should be allowed to recover the
full value of the vessel and cargo except in cases where the
entire property is lost by the disaster, which is not true in
a case where, by reasonable exertions, the vessel may be
raised and the cargo saved by the use of such nautical skill
as the owners of vessels usually employ in such emergencies.
Owners of vessels seeking redress'in such cases must be prepared to show, not only that those in charge of the other
vessel were in fault, but that no negligence on their part has
increased or aggravated the injury. Damages are awarded
in such cases for the injury done to the vessel and cargo by
a wrongful act, but if the party suffering the injury to his
property will not employ any reasonable measures to stop
the progress of the damage, but wilfully and obstinately, or
through gross negligence, suffers the damage to augment, it
is his own folly, and the law will not afford him any redress
for such part of the damage as proceeded directly from his
own culpable default.
Persons injured in their property by collision are entitled
to full ind~mnity for their loss, but the respondents are not
liable for such damages as might have been reasonably
avoided by the exercise of ordinary skill and diligence, after
the collision, on the part of those in charge of the injured
ship.t
Responsive to these views, the suggestion is, that the libel
* Williamson v. Barrett, 13 Howard, 110; Sturgis v. Clough, 1 Wallace,
272.
t The Flying-Fish, B. & Lush. 443; S. C., 3 Moore Privy Council (N.
S.) 86; The Lotus, Holt, R. R. 183; The Lena, lb. 213.

Tim ]BALTI11ORE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

alleges that the schooner and cargo were sunk in such deep
water as to make both a total loss, but the insuperable difficulty in the way of that suggestion is, that the allegation of
the libel is expressly denied in the answer, and the libellants
failed to introduce any proof to support their allegation.
Subsequent to the disaster, several witnesses saw the schooner,
and they concur that her masts were some eighteen feet out
of water, and that she lay with her stem to the west-northwest, in the exact course in which she was steering when she
was sunk by the steamer. Theory of the libellants is, that
the vessel and cargo were of no value, but the court cannot
adopt that theory in the absence of any proof to warrant the
conclusion.*
Decided cases may be found where it is held that the
owner of the injured vessel is not bound to raise the vessel
in a case where she was sunk by a collision, but it is clear,
that the court cannot award damages for a total loss, where
it appears probable that the vessel and cargo may be raised
without much expense, and restored to their owners.t
III. Due exception was also taken to that part of the report of the commissioner in which he allowed to the libellants, the sum of five hundred dollars for counsel fees, but
the District Court overruled the exception and confirmed the
report.,
Taxable costs are recognized by the Judiciary Act, in
several of its sections, as a part of a judgment or decree in
a Federal court, but it contains no fee bill, nor does it furnish any express authority for any such taxation. Costs have
usually been allowed to the prevailing party, as incident to
the judgment, since the statute 6 Edw. I, c. 1, § 2, and the
same rule was acknowledged in the courts of the States, at the
time the judicial system of the United States was organized.1
* Miller v. Mariner's Church, 7 Maine, 51; Loker v. Damon, 17 Pickering, 284; Thompson v. Shattuck, 2 Metcalf, 615; Sedgwick on Damages (4th
ed.) 105.
t The Columbus, 3 W. Robinson, 158; The Eugenie, 1 Lushington, 139;
Lowndes on Collision, 148.

T Hathaway v. Roach, 2 Woodbury & M1inott, 63; 2 Tidd's Practice, 945;

Dec. 1869.]

THE

BALTIMfORE.

Opinion of the court.

Circuit Courts, under the Judiciary Act, have original
cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States,
of all suits of'a civil nature, at common' law or in equity,
where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the
sum or value of five hundred dollars, in the cases described
in the 11th section of that act.*
Cases of Federal cognizance, commenced in a State court,
wlere the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the
sum or value of five hundred dollars, may be removed, under
the conditions specified in the 12th section of the act, into
the Circuit Courts.t
Such courts also may make and establish all necessary
rules for the orderly conducting of business in the said
courts, provided such rules are not repugnant to the laws of
the United States.1
Where the plaintiff or petitioner recovers less than five
hundred dollars, or the libellant, upon his own appeal, recovers less than three hundred dollars, he shall not be allowed, but, at the discretion of the court, may be adjudged
to pay costs. Appeals from the decrees of the District Court
to the Circuit. Court were allowed by that act, where the
matter in dispute exceeded, exclusive of costs, the sum or
value of three hundred dollars, and the final judgments rendered in the District Courts might be re-examined in the
Circuit Court on writ of error, where the matter in dispute
exceeded, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of fifty dollars;
and a similar provision is made for the re-examination by
this court of the final judgments and decrees of the Circuit
Courts, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum or value of two thousand dollars.
Just damages for delay and single or double costs may be
adjudged to the respondent in error, at the discretion of the
court, in all cases where the judgment or decree is affirmed.§
Provision is also made that the district attorney shall receive, as compensation for his services, such fees as shall be
The Christina, 8 Jurist, 321; Conklin's Treatise, 426; Laws of the United
States Courts, 25 5 .
Ilb. 85.
Ilb. 83.
t Ib. 80.
* 1 Stat. at Large, 78.

[Sup. Ct.

THE B ALTIMORE.
Opinion of the court.

taxed therefor in the respective courts, before which the
suits or prosecutions shall be, and the act makes no other
provision for his compensation.*
Weighed in the light of these several provisions in the
Judiciary Act, the conclusion appears to be clear that Congress intended to allow costs to the prevailing party, as incident to the judgment, as most of the regulations referred
to would be meaningless upon any other theory. Concede
that to be so, still the inquiry arises, by what rules was the
taxation to be regulated, and what were the rates of fees to
be allowed; to which inquiries there can be but one answer,
unless it be assumed that Congress intended to leave the
whole matter to the discretion of the court trying the case,
which cannot be admitted. Reject that construction, and
the only reasonable one which can be adopted is, that the
Federal courts were referred to the regulations upon the
subject in the courts of the State, and no doubt is entertained
that such was the intention of Congress, as conclusively appears by the terms of the Process Act, which was passed five
days after the approval of the Judiciary Act. By that act the
modes of process and the rates of fees allowed in the Supreme
Courts of the States, were expressly adopted as regulations in
that behalf, in common law suits, in the District and Circuit
Courts established by the prior act. Rates of fees, in causes
of equity and of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, were
also prescribed by that act, and they were therein declared
to be the same as are and were last allowed by the States,
respectively, in the court exercising supreme jurisdiction in
such causes. State forms of writs and executions were also
adopted by the same act, and the rates of fees and the forms
and modes of process ever after remained the same, except
so far as they have been changed by subsequent legislation,
or by the rules ordained by the Supreme Court. Temporary
though the act was, still it was of sufficient duration to put
the new system in complete operation.t
Subsequent to the passage of that act, the costs taxed in
*1 Star. at Large, 93.

t

b. 123; lb. 191.

Dec. 1869.]

THE BALTIMORE.
Opinion of the court.

the Circuit and District Courts were the same as were allowed
at that time in the courts of the State, including such matters
as the travel and attendance of the parties, fees for copies of
the case, and abstracts for the hearing, compensation for the
services of referees, auditors, masters, and assessors, and
many other matters not embraced in the fee bills, since
passed by Congress.*
Most of the provisions of that act were incorporated into
the second section of the act of the 8th of May, 1792, but
the particular regulation, adopting the State fee bill as the
rate of fees in the Circuit and District Courts, was not reproduced in that section, as that fee bill had already been'
adopted by the Federal courts.t
Since that time, costs in the Circuit and District Courts,
held in the old States, have been taxed under that regulation
as adopted by that act, except so fhr as the rates of fees have
been changed by subsequent legislation.1
Congress, by the act of the 1st of March, 1793, regulated
more specifically the taxation of costs in admiralty proceedings in the District Courts.§
Fees of the attorney and counsellor were prescribed by
the 1st section of the act. They were a stated fee of three
dollars for drawing and exhibiting the libel, claim, or answer
in each cause; three dollars for drawing interrogatories, and
three dollars for all other services in any one cause. Nine
dollars only could be taxed for the services of an attorney or
counsellor, but the 4th section of the act provided, that there
be allowed and taxed, in the Federal courts, in favor of the
parties obtaining judgments therein, such compensation for
their travel and attendance, and for attorney and counsellor's
fees, except in the District Courts, in causes of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, as are allowed in the Supreme or
* Crosby v. Folger, 1 Sumner, 514; Brown v. Stearns, 13 Massachusetts,
536.
t Ibid. 276; Hathaway v. Roach, 2 Woodbury & Minott, 68; Hovey v.
Stevens, 3 Id. 17.
jWhipple v. Cotton, 3 Story, 84.
1 Stat. at Large, 332.

BALTIMORE.

TH

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Superior Courts of the respective States. Passed to continue
in force only for one year, and, from thence, until the end
of the next session of Congress thereafter, it was suffered to
expire, but it was renewed by the act of the 31st of -March,
1796, and was continued in force two years longer, and to
the end of the next session of Congress.*
Detailed provision was made by the subsequent act of the
28th of February, 1799, for compensation to marshals, clerks;
district attorneys,jurors, witnesses, and criers, but the special
'provision allowing counsel fees was dropped.t
Even while it remained in force, it did not authorize such
an allowance in a case like the present, as cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction in the District Courts were expressly excepted from the operation of the provision. Ordinary costs in admiralty suits were doubtless taxed under
that act, as if it was in force long after it had expired, but it
never furnished any authority to charge counsel fees in the
District Courts; but if it did, and if it had not expired, it
would be repealed by the present law.
Fees and costs, allowed to the officers therein named, are
now regulated by the act of the 26th of February, 1853,
which provides, in its 1st section, that in lieu of the compensation now allowed by law to attorneys, solicitors, proctors, district attorneys, clerks, marshals, witnesses, jurors,
commissioners, and printers, the following and no other compensation shall be allowed.
Attorneys, solicitors, and proctors may charge their clients
reasonably for their services, in addition to the taxable costs,
but nothing can be taxed as cost against the opposite party,
as an incident to the judgment, for their services, except the
costs and fees therein described and enumerated.1 They
may tax a docket fee of twenty dollars on a final hearing in
admiralty, if the libellant recovers fifty dollars, but if he recovers less than fifty dollars, the docket fee of the proctor
shall be but ten dollars.§
1 Stat. at Large, 453.

j

1b. 624.

1 10 Stat. at Large, 161.

The Sloop Canton, 21 Law Reporter, 473; The Liverpool Packet, 2
Sprague 37; The Conestoga, 2 Wallace, Jr., 116.

Dec. 1869.]

BRADLEY V. RHINES' ADMINISTRATORS.

893

Statement of the case.

Reference is made to two cases where counsel fees were
allowed, but it is a sufficient answer to those cases to say,
that they were decided before the act of Congress, under
consideration, was passed. They do not, therefore, furnish
the rule of decision in the case before the court.
DECREE REVERSED.

BRADLEY v. RHINES' ADMINISTRATORS.
1. In a suit brought by the assignee of a chose in action in the Federal court
on the contract so assigned, it is necessary that plaintiff shall show affirmatively that such action could have been sustained if brought by the
original obligee.
2. The burden of proof in such case is on the plaintiff, when the instrument
and its assignment are offered under the plea of the general issue.

E4RROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania; the case being this:
Section eleven of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which defines
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts as regards citizenship,
after declaring that no person shall be sued in any other district than that of which he is an inhabitant, or in which he
shall be found at the service of the writ, adds :
"1Nor shall any District or Circuit Court have cognizance of
any suit to recover the contents of any promissory note or other
chose in action, in favor of an assignee, unless a suit might have
been prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents if no
assignment had been made, except in cases of foreign bills of
exchange."
With this provision in force Bradley sued the administrators of one Rhines in the court below, describing himself
in the declaration as a citizen of Kentucky, and alleging
the defendants, whom he described as administrators, to be
citizens of Pennsylvania. He declared, in a special count
on a contract of lease, and in two common counts for money
had and received by defendants' intestate to plaintiff's use,
and for money laid out and expended at his request. The

