Dec. 1869.]

WILLARD V. TAYLOE.

557

Syllabus.

WILLARD

v.

TAYLOE.

1. A covenant in a lease giving to the lessee a right or option to purchase
the premises leased at any time during the term, is in the nature of a
continuing offer to sell. The offer thus made, if under seal, is regarded
as made upon sufficient consideration, and therefore one from which
the lessor is not at liberty to recede. When accepted by the lessee, a
contract of sale is completed.
2. When a contract for the sale of real property is plain and certain in its
terms and in its nature, and the circumstances attending its execution
is free from objection, it is the usual practice of courts of equity to
enforce its specific execution upon the application of the party who has
complied with its stipulations on his part, or has seasonably and in good
faith offered, and continues ready to comply with them. But it is not
the invariablepractice. This form of relief is not a matter of absolute
right to either party; but a matter resting in the discretion of the court,
to be exercised upon a consideration of all the circumstances of each
particular case.
3. In general the specific relief will be granted when it is apparent, from a
view of all the circumstances of the particular case, that it will subserve
the ends of justice; and it will be 'withheld when, from a like view, it
appears that it will produce hardship or injustice to either of the parties.
4. Where specific execution which would work hardship when unconditionally performed, would work equity when decreed on conditions, it willt
be decreed conditionally.
6 The kind of currency which a party offers in payment of a contract
(which, in this case, consisted of notes of the United States, not equivalent at the time to gold or silver), is important, on a bill for specific
performance, only in considering the good faith of his conduct. The
condition of the currency in April, 1864, and the general use of notes
of the United States at that time, repel any imputation of bad faith in
tendering such notes instead of coin in satisfaction of a contract..
6 Where a party is entitled to a specific performance of a contract upon the
payment of certain sums, and there is uncertainty as to the amount of
such sums, he may apply by bill for such specific performance, and submit to the court the question of amount which he should pay.
7. Fluctuations in the value of property contracted for between the date of
the contract, and the time when execution of the contract is demanded,
where the contract was when made a fair one, and in its attendant circumstances unobjectionable, are not allowed to prevent a specific enforcement of the contract.
8. The general rule is that the parties to the contract are the only proper
parties to the suit for its performance. Hence the assignment by the
complainant, prior to his bill, of a partial interest in the entire contract
is no defence to the bill for such performance.

WILLARD V. TAYLOE.

ESup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

9. Where a party, prior to filing a bill for specific performance of a contract
for the sale of land, had sent to the other side for examination, and in
professed purpose of execution of the contract, the draft of a mortgage
which he is ready, on a conveyance being made, to execute, it is no
defence to the bill, if the defendant have wholly refused to execute a
deed, that the draft is not in such a form as respected parties and the
term of years which the security bad to run, as the vendor was bound
to accept, especially where such vendor, in returning the draft, had not
stated in what particulars he was dissatisfied with the draft.
10. *When parties have reduced their contracts to writing, conversations controlling or changing their stipulations are, in the absence of fraud, no
more received in a court of equity than in a court of law.
11. In this case, without expressing an opinion upon the constitutionality of
the provision of the act of Congress which makes United States notes
a legal tender for private debts, nor whether, if constitutional, the provision is to be limited in its application to contracts made subsequent to
the passage of the act, the court refused to decree a conveyance of real
estate, on the tender in such notes, where the estate had greatly risen in
value, where at the time of the contract gold and silver coin were the
only lawful money of the United States, and where it was impossible
to suppose that the parties when making their contract-which was
eight years before the notes were authorized-contemplated a substitution of such notes (when tendered much depreciated), for coin ; but
did decree a specific execution, upon the payment in coin of the price
originally agreed on, with interest, in coin also.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This was a suit in equity for the specific performance of
a contract for the sale of certain real property situated in
the city of Washington, in the District of Columbia, and
adjoining the hotel owned by the complainant, Willard, and
known as Willard's Hotel.
The facts out of which the case arose were as follows:
In April, 1854, the defendant leased to the complainant
the property in question, which was generally known in
Washington as " The MN[ansion House," for the period of ten
years from the 1st of May following, at the yearly rent of
twelve hundred dollars. The lease contained a covenant
that the lessee should have the right or option of purchasing
the premises, with the buildings and improvements thereon,
at any time before the expiration of the lease, for the sum
of twenty-two thousand and five hundred dollars, payable as

Dec. 1869.]

WILLARD

v. TAYLOE.

Statement of the case.

follows: two thousand dollars in cash, and two thousand
dollars, together with the interest on all the deferred instalments, each year thereafter until the whole was paid; the
deferred payments to be secured by a deed of trust on the
property, and the vendor to execute to the purchaser a warranty deed of the promises, subject to a yearly ground-rent
of three hundred and ninety dollars.
At the time of this lease gold and silver, or bank bills
convertible on demand into it, were the ordinary money of
the country, and the standard of values. In 1861 the rebellion broke out, lasting till 1865. In the interval, owing
to the influx of people, property in the metropolis used for
hotels greatly increased in value, and as was alleged by
Tayloe, who produced what he deemed a record to show the
fact, the complailiant, Willard, assigned an undivided half
of the property which had been leased to him as abovementioned to a brother of his. In December, 1861, the
banks throughout the country suspended payments in specie,
and in 1862 and 1863, the Federal Government issued some
hundred millions of notes, to be used as money, and which
Congress declared should be a tender in the payment of
debts. Coin soon ceased to circulate generally, and people
used, in a great degree, the notes of the government to pay
what they owed.
On the 15th of April, 1864, two weeks before the expiration of the period allowed the complainant for his election
to purchase-the property having greatly increased in value
since 1854, the year in which the lease was made-the complainant addressed a letter. to the defendant, inclosing a
check, payable to his order, on the Bank of America, in
N~ew York, for two thousand dollars, as the amount due on
the 1st of May following on the purchase of the property,
with a blank receipt for the money, and requesting the defendant to sign and return the receipt, and stating that if it
were agreeable to the defendant he would have the deed of
the property, and the trust deed to be executed by himself,
prepared between that date and the 1st of May. To this
letter the defendant, on the same day, replied that he had

WILLARD V.

TAYLOE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

no time then to look into the business, and returned the
check, expressing a wish to see the complainant for explanations before closing the matter.
On the following morning the complainant called on the
defendant and informed him that he had two thousand dollars to make the first payment for the property, and offered
the money to him. The money thus offered consisted of
notes of the United States, made by act of Congress a legal
tender for debts. These the defendant refused to accept,
stating that he understood the purchase-money was to be paid
in gold, and that gold he would accept, but not the notes,
and give the receipt desired. It was admitted that these
notes were at the time greatly depreciated in the market
below their nominal value.* On repeated occasions subsequently the complainant sent the same amount-two thousand dollars-in these United States notes to the defendant
in payment of the cash instalment on the purchase, and as
often were they refused by him. On one of these occasions
a draft of the deed of conveyance to be executed by the defendant, and a draft of the trust deed to be executed by the
complainant, were sent for examination, with the money.
This last was prepared for execution by the complainant
alone, and contained a provision that he migbt, if lie should
elect to do so, pay off the deferred payments at earlier dates
than those mentioned in the lease. These deeds were returned by the defendant, accompanied with a letter expressing dissatisfaction at the manner in which he was induced
to sign the lease with the clause for the sale of the premises, but stating that as he had signed it he "should have
carried the matter out" if the complainant had proffered
the amount which he knew lie had offered for the property,
meaning by this statement, as the court understood it, if lie
had proffered the amount stipulated in gold. No objection
was made to the form of either of the deeds.
* Between the 15th of April and May 1st, 1864, one dollar in gold was
worth from one dollar and seventy-three cents to one dollar and eighty cents
in United States notes.

:Dec. 1869.']

WILLARD v. TAYLOR.

Statement of the case.

Soon afterwards the defendant left the city of Washington,
with the intention of being absent until after the 1st of May.
On the 29th of April the complainant, finding that the defendant had left the city, and perceiving that the purchase
was not about to be completed within the period prescribed
by the covenant in the lease, and apprehensive that unless
legal proceedings were taken by him to enforce its execution
his rights thereunder might be lost, instituted the present
•suit.
In the bill he set forth the covenant giving him the right
or option to purchase the premises; his election to purchase;
the notice to tha defendant; the repeated efforts made by
him to obtain a deed of the property; his offer to pay the
amount required as the first instalment of the purchasemoney in United States notes, and to execute the trust deed
stipulated to secure the deferred payments, and the refusal
of the defendant to receive the United States notes and to
execute to him a deed of the premises. It also set forth the
departure of the defendant from the city of Washington, and
his intended absence beyond the 1st of May following, and
alleged that the appeal was made to the equitable interposition of the court, lest on the return of the defendant he might
refuse to allow the complainant to complete the purchase,
and urge as a reason that the time within which it was to be
made had passed. The bill concluded with a prayer that
the court decree a specific performance of the agreement by
the defendant, and the execution of a.deed of the premises
to the complainant; the latter offering to perform the agreement on his part according to its true intent and meaning.
The bill also stated some facts, which it is unnecessary to
detail, tending to show that the acquisition of the property
in question was of especial imuportance to the complainant.
The answer set up that the complainant, even on his own
showing, had no case; that there was no proper tender; that
even if the complainant once had a right to file a bill in his
sole right-the way in which the present bill was filed-he
had lost this right by the transfer of the half to his brother;
that the complainant had not demanded an execution even
VOL. VIl.

86

WILLARD v. TAYLOE.

[-Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

of the contract which he himself set forth, but by the drafts
of the trust deed sent to Tayloe, and which was the trust
deed of which he contemplated the execution, he proposed
to pay, at his own option, the whole purchase-money before
the expiration of the ten years, and thus would interfere
with the duration of that security and investment in the
identical property leased, which had been originally contemplated and provided for; thus subjecting the defendant
to risk and expense in making a new investment. The
answer concluded with an allegation, that " by the great
national acts and events which had occurred when the complainant filed his bill, and which were still influencing all
values and interests in the country, such a state of things
had arisen and now existed, as according to equity and good
conscience ought to prevent a decree for specific performance
in this case, upon a demand made on the last day of a term
of ten years, even if in strict law (which was denied) the
complainant was entitled to make such demand."
Both Tayloe and Willard were examined as witnesses.
The former testified, that when the lease was executed he
objected to a stipulation for a sale of the premises, and that
Willard said it should go for nothing. Willard swore that
he had said no such thing.
The court below dismissed the bill, and Willard took the
present appeal.
Messrs. Curtis, Poland, and Howe, for the appellant, contended, that when Willard, within the prescribed time, notified to the respondent his election to purchase, the contract
became complete.
That where a contract for the conveyance of lands was in
its nature and circumstances unobjectionable, it was as much
a matter of course for a court of equity to decree its specific
performance, as it was for a court of law to give damages
for its breach.
That the money payable by Willard to Tayloe became a
debt, as soon as Willard had signified to Tayloe his option to
make the purchase, and that being a "debt," it was capable

Dec. 1869.]

WILLARD V.

TAYLOE.

Argument for the appellee.

of being discharged in notes of the United States made a
legal tender for debts by the act of Congress; the counsel
here going into a learned argument to show that Congress
bad power under the Constitution to make its notes a valid
tender for payment of private debts.
Mlfessrs. Cox and McPherson, contra, and in support of the
decree below, arguedThat in point of fact the purpose of the, arrangement
between Tayloe. and Willard, was but to give to Willard,
well known as a hotel-keeper in Washington, a control, during ten years, of property adjoining his hotel, in order to
prevent competition with it; and that this was presumable
from the lease itself, and was made certain by the testimony
of Tayloe, who swears that on his objecting to the clause
giving the right to purchase, Willard agreed that it should
"go for nothing."
That the specific performance of contracts was a matter to
be regulated pre-eminently by the suggestions of good conscience; that the rebellion, which between 1861 and 1865
brought countless numbers of strangers to Washington, had
made a great and unexpected augmentation in the value of
property used for hotels; that this might be ground even
for rescinding a contract; or if not so, that certainly it was
ground for requiring a complainant asking performance to
show a most exact compliance with his obligations.
That in this case there was no proper tender; that the
statutes under which the notes were tendered by Willard to
Tayloe-if indeed they were meant to operate on then existing contracts-were unconstitutional; moreover, that they
were not so meant to operate, and of course that this contract was without their scope. Independently of which, that
payment of the amount to be paid by Willard to entitle himself to a conveyance, was not the payment of a debt, but the
performance of a condition.
That the deed of trust tendered by Willard contemplated
an execution by himself alone; whereas it ought to have
been by himself and his brother, to whom he had conveyed

WILLARD V.

TAYLOE.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

a half of his interest in the property, and moreover that it
changed the dates at which the deferred payments should
be made.
To this it was replied, that even if the tender in notes was
bad, still, since Congress had declared them a good tender,
and this court had never yet decided the reverse of such a
position, that Willard did nothing wrong in tendering them;
especially since he subjected himself to the court's direction,
and was ready to tender coin if this court thought that he
was bound to do so.
That the contract having been fair when made, each party
took the risk of changes in value; and that here when made
it was highly advantageous to Tayloe.
That the defence, that the covenant was obtained by some
parol assurance that it would not be enforced was not set up
in the answer, and was inconsistent with admitted facts, and
in all violation of a leading rule of evidence.
That the fact, that the draft of a trust deed sent by Willard
to Tayloe did not conform to the contract, could, under the
circumstances, have no legal bearing on the case.
That the omission of the name of Willard's brother was
unimportant, since only parties to the contract are proper
parties to a bill; and a sub-purchaser of an undivided interest in the contract is not a necessary party.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts of the case, delivered the opinion of the court, as follows:
The covenant in the lease giving the right or option to
purchase the premises was in the nature of a continuing
offer to sell. It was a proposition extending through the
period of ten years, and being under seal must be regarded
as made upon a sufficient consideration, and, therefore, one
from which the defendant was not at liberty to recede.
When accepted by the complainant by his notice to the defendant, a contract of sale between the parties was completed.* This contract is plain and certain in its terms, and
* Boston and Maine Railroad

Company v. Bartlett, 3 Cushing, 224;

Dec. 1869.]

WILLARD

v.

TAYLOE.

Opinion of the court.

in its nature and in the circumstances attending its execution appears to be free from objection. The price stipulated
for the property was a fair one. At the time its market
value was under fifteen thousand dollars, and a greater increase than one-half in value during the period of ten years
could not then have been reasonably anticipated.
*When a contract is of this character.it is the usual practice
of courts of equity to enforce its specific execution upon the
application of the party who has complied with its stipulations on his part, or has seasonably and in good faith offered,
and continuesready to comply with them. But it is not the
invariable practice. This form of relief is not a matter of
absolute right to either party; it is a matter resting in the
discretion of the court, to be exercised upon a consideration
of all the circumstances of each particular case. The jurisdiction, said Lord Erskine,* "is not compulsory upon the
court, but the subject of discretion. The question is not
what the court must do, but what it may do under [the] circumstances, either exercising the jurisdiction by granting
the specific performance or abstaining from it."
And long previous to him Lord llardwicke and other
eminent equity judges of England had, in a great variety of
cases, asserted the same discretionary power of the court.
In Joynes v. Statham,t Lord Hardwicke said: "The constant
doctrine of this court is, that it is in their discretion, whether
in such a bill they will decree a specific performance or,leave
the plaintiff to his remedy at law." And in Underwood v.
.ilhcoxj the same great judge said, in refusing to enforce
a contract: "The rule of equity in carrying agreements into
specific performance is well known, and the court is not
obliged to decree every agreement entered into, though for
valuable consideration, in strictness of law, it depending on
the circumstances."
Laterjurists, both in England and in the United States, have
reiterated the same doctrine. Chancellor Kent, in Seymour
Welchman v. Spinks, 5 Law Times, N. S. 385; Warner v. Willington, 3
Prewry, 523; Old Colony Railroad v. Evans, 6 Gray, 25.
$ 1 Vesey, Sen. 279.
* 12 Vesey, Jr. 332.
t 3 Atkyns, 388.

WILLARD V. TAYL.DE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

v. -Delancy,* upon an extended review of the authorities oil
the subject, declares it to be a settled principle that a specific
performance of a contract of sale is not a matter of course,
but rests entirely in the discretion of the court upon a
view of all the circumstances; and Chancellor Bates, of
Delaware, in Godwin v. Collins, recently decided, upon a very
full consideration of the adjudged cases, says, that a patient
examination of the whole course of decisions on this subject
has left with him " no doubt that, as a matter of judicial history, such a discretion has always been exercised in administering this branch of equity jurisprudence."
It is true the cases cited, in which the discretion of the
court is asserted, arose upon contracts in which there existed
some inequality or unfairness in the terms, by reason of
which injustice would have followed a specific performance.
But' the same discretion is exercised where the contract is
fair in its terms, if its enforcement, from subsequent events,
or even from collateral circumstances, would work hardship
or injustice to either of the parties.
In the case of the City of London v. INash,t the defendant,
a lessee, had covenanted to rebuild some houses, but, instead
of doing this, he rebuilt only two of them, and repaired the
others. On a bill by the city for a specific performance Lord
Ilardwicke held that the covenant was one which the court
could specifically enforce; but said, " the most material objection for the defendant, and which has weight with me, is
that the court is not obliged to decree a specific performance,
and will not when it would be a hardship, as it would be here
upon the defendant to oblige him, after having very largely
repaired the houses, to pull them down and rebuild them."
In Faine v. Brown,t similar hardship, flowing from the specific execution of a contract, was made the ground for refusing the decree prayed. In that case the defendant was
the owner of a small estate, devised to him on condition that
if he sold it within twenty-five years one-half of the purchasemoney should go to his brother. Having contracted to sell
• 6 Johnson's Chancery, 222.
:

Cited in

t 1 Vesey, Sen. 12.

i nmsden v. Hylton, 2 Vesey, Sen. 306.

Dec. 1869.]

WILLARD V. TAYLOE.
Opinion of the court.

the property, and refusing to carry out the contract under
the pretence that he was intoxicated at the time, a bill was
filed to enfo'rce its specific execution, but Lord Hardwicke
is reported to have said that, without regard to the other
circumstance, the hardship alone of losing half the purchasemoney, if tlie contract was carried into exe6ution, was sufficient to determine the discretion of the court not to interfere, but to leave the parties to the law.
The discretion which may be exercised in this class of
cases is not an arbitrary or capricious one, depending upon
the mere pleasure of the court, but one which is controlled
by the established doctrines and settled principles of equity.
No positive rule can be laid down by which the action of
the court can be determined in all cases. In general it may
be said that the specific relief will be granted when it is apparent, from a view of all the circumstances of the particular case, that it will subserve the ends of justice; and that
it will be withheld when, from a like view, it appears that it
will produce hardship or injustice to either of the parties.
It is not sufficient, as shown by the cases cited, to call forth
the equitable interposition of the court, that the legal obligation under the contract to do the specific thing desired
may be perfect. It must also appear that the specific enforcement will work no hardship or injustice, for if that
result would follow, the court will leave the parties to their
remedies at law, unless the granting of the specific relief can
be accompanied with conditions which will obviate that result. If that result can be thus obviated, a specific performance will generally in such cases be decreed conditionally.
It is the advantage of a court of equity, as observed by Lord
Redesdale in Davis v. .one,* that it can modify the demands
of parties according to justice, and where, as in that case, it
would be inequitable, from a change of circumstances, to
enforce a contract specifically, it may refuse its decree unless
the party will consent to a conscientious modification of the
contract, or, what would generally amount to the same thing,
2 Schoales & Lefroy, 348.

WILLARD V. TAYLOE.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

take a decree upon condition of doing or relinquishing certain things to the other party.
In the present case objection is taken to the action of the
complainant in offering, in payment of the first instalment
stipulated, notes of the United States. It was insisted by
the defendant at the time, and it is contended by his counsel
now, that the covenant in the lease required payment for the
property to be made in gold. The covenant does not in
terms specify gold as the currency in which payment is to
be made; but gold, it is said, must have been in the contemplation of the parties, as no other currency, except for
small amounts, which could be discharged in silver, was
at the time recognized by law as a legal tender for private
debts.
Although the contract in this case was not completed until
the proposition of the defendant was accepted in April, 1864,
after the passage of the act of Congress making notes of the
United States a legal tender for private debts, yet as the
proposition containing the terms of the contract was previously made, the contract itself must be construed as if it
had been then concluded to take effect subsequently.
It is not our intention to express any opinion u1)on the
constitutionality of the provision of the act of Congress,
which makes the notes of the United States a legal tender
for private debts, nor whether, if constitutional, the provision is to be limited in its application to contracts, made subsequent to the passage of the act.* These questions are the
subject of special consideration in other cases, and their
solution is not required for the determination of the case
before us. In the view we take of the case, it is immaterial
whether the constitutionality of the provision be affirmed or
denied. The relief which the complainant seeks rests, as
already stated, in the sound discretion of the court; and, if
granted, it may be accompanied with such conditions as will
prevent hardslhip and insure justice to the defendant. The
suit itself is an appeal to the equitable jurisdiction of the
* See infra, Hepburn v. Griswold, p. 603.

Dec. 1869.]

WILLARD V. TAYLOE.
Opinion of the court.

court, and, in asking what is equitable to himself, the complainant necessarily submits himself to the judgment of the
court, to do what it shall adjudge to be equitable to the defendant.
The kind of currency which the complainant offered, is
only important in considering the good faith of his conduct.
A party does not forfeit his rights to the interposition of a
court of equity to enforce a specific performance of a contract, if.he seasonably and in good faith offers to comply, and
continues ready to comply, with its stipulations on his part,
although he may err in estimating the extent of his obligation. It is only in courts of law that literal and exact performance is required. The condition of the currency at the time
repels any imputation of bad faith in the Sction of the complainant. The act of Congress had declared the notes of
the United States to be a legal tender for all debts, without,
in terms, making any distinction between debts contracted
before, and those contracted after its passage. Gold had al:most entirely disappeared from circulation. The community
at large used the notes of the United States in the discharge
of all debts. They constituted, in fact, almost the entire currency of the country in 1864. They were received and paid
out by the government; and the validity of the act declaring
them a legal tender had been sustained by nearly every State
court before which the question had been raised. The defendant, it is true, insisted upon his right to payment in gold,
but before the expiration of the period prescribed for the
completion of the purchase, he left the city of Washington,
and thus cut off the possibility of any other tender than the
one made within that period. In the presence of this difficulty, respecting the mode of payment, which could not be
obviated, by reason of the absence of the defendant, the
complainant filed his bill, in which he states the question
which had arisen between them, and invokes the aid of
the court in the matter, offering specifically to perform the
contract on his part according to its true intent and meaning.
Ile thus placed himself promptly and fairly before the court,
expressing a willingness to do whatever it should adjudge he

WILLARD v. TAYLOE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ought in equity and conscience to do in the execution of the
contract.
Nothing further could have been reasonably required of
him under the circumstances, even if we should assume that
the act of Congress, making the notes of the 'United States
a legal tender, does not apply to debts created before its
passage, or, if applicable to such debts, is, to that extent,
unconstitutional and void.
In the case of Chesterman v. Mann,* it was held by the
Court of Chancery of England, that where an underlessee
had a covenant for the renewal of his lease, upon paying to
his lessor a fair proportion of the fines and expenses to which
the lessor might be subjected in obtaining a renewal of his
own term from the superior landlord, and of any increased
rent upon such renewal, and there was a difference between
the parties as to the amount to be paid by the underlessee, he
might apply for a specific performance of the covenant, and
submit to the court the amount to be paid. So here in this
case, the complainant applies for a specific performance, and
submits the amount to be paid by him to the judgment of
the court.
We proceed to consider whether any other circumstances
have arisen since the covenant in the lease was made, which
renders the enforcement of the contract of sale, subsequently
completed between the parties, inequitable. Such circumstances are asserted to have arisen in two particulars; first,
in the greatly increased value of the property; and second,
in the transfer of a moiety of the complainant's original interest to his brother.
It is true, the property has greatly increased in value since
April, 1854. Some increase was anticipated- by the parties,
for the covenant exacts, in case of the lessee's election to
purchase, the payment of one-half more than its then estimated value. If the actual increase has exceeded the estimate then made, that circumstance furnishes no ground for
interference with the arrangement of the parties. The ques.
* 9 Hare, 212.

Dec. 1869.]

'WILLARD v. TAYLOE.
Opinion of the court.

tion, in such cases, always is, was the contract, at the time
it was made, a reasonable and fair one? If such were the
fact, the parties are considered as having taken upon themselves the risk of subsequent fluctuations in the value of the
property, and such fluctuations are not allowed to prevent its
specific enforcement.* Hlere the contract, as already stated,
was, when made, a fair one, and in all its attendant circumstances, free from objection. The rent reserved largely exceeded the rent then paid, and the sum stipulated for the
property largely exceeded its then market value.
The transfer, by the complainant to his brother, of onehalf interest in the lease, assuming now, for the purpose of
the argument, that there is, in the record, evidence, which
we can notice, of such transfer, in no respect affects the
obligation of the defendant, or impairs the right of the complainant to the enforcement of the contract. The brother is
no party to the contract, and any partial interest he may
have acquired therein, the defendant was not bound to notice.
The owners of partial interests in contracts for land, acquired
subsequent to their execution, are not necessary parties to
bills for their enforcement. The original parties on one side
are not to be mixed up incontroversies between the parties
on the other side, in which they have no concern.
If the entire contract had been assigned to the brother, so
that he had become substituted in the place of the complainant, the case would have been different. In that event, the
brother might have filed the bill, and insisted upon being
treated as representing the vendee. The general rule is, that
the parties to the contract are the only proper parties to the
suit for its performance, and, except in the case of an assignment of the entire contract, there must be some special circumstances to authorize a departure from the rule.
The court, says Chancellor Oottenham,in Tasherv. Smallt
"assumes jurisdiction in cases of specific performance of
* Wclls v. The Direct London & Portsmouth Railway Company, 9 Hare,
129; Low v. Treadwell, 3 Fairfield, 441; Fry on Specific Performance of
Contracts,
235 and 252.
j- 3 Mylne & Craig, 69.

WILLARD V.

TAYLOE.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

contracts, because a court of law, giving damages only for
the non-performance of the contract, in many cases, does
not afford an adequate remedy. But in equity, as well as at
law, the contract constitutes the right, and regulates the liabilities of the parties; and the object of both proceedings is
to place the party complaining, as nearly as possible, in the
same situation as the defendant had agreed that be should
be placed in. It is obvious, that persons, strangers to the
contract, and, therefore, neither entitled to the rights nor
subject to the liabilities which arise out of it, are as much
strangers to a proceeding to enforce the execution of it as
they are to a proceeding to recover damages for the breach
of it."
When the complainant has received his deed from the defendant, the brother may claim from him a conveyance of
an interest in the premises, if he have a valid contract for
such interest, and enfbrce such conveyance by suit; but that
is a matter with which the defendant has no concern.
It seems that the draft of the trust deed, to secure the deferred payments, sent to the defendant for examination, was
prepared for execution by the complainant alone, and contained a stipulation that he might, if he should so elect, pay
off the deferred payments at earlier dates than those mentioned in the covenant in the lease; and it is objected to the
complainant's right to a specific performance, that the trust
deed was not drawn to be executed jointly by him and his
brother, and that it contained this stipulation. A short answer to this objection is found in the fact, that the parties had
disagreed in relation to the payment to be made, and until
the disagreement ceased no deeds were required. It is admitted that the form of the trust deed was not such a one as
the defendant was bound to receive, but as it was sent to him
for examination, good faith and fhir dealing required him to
indicate in what particulars it was defective, or with which
clauses he was dissatisfied. Whether it was the duty of the
complainant or defendant to prepare the trust deed, accorJing to the usage prevailing in Washington, is not entirely
clear from the evidence. There is testimony both ways. The

Dec. 186,9.]

-WILLARD v. TAYDOE.
Opinion of the court.

true rule, independent of any usage on the subject, would
seem to be that the party who is to execute and deliver a
deed should prepare it. It is, however, immaterial for this
case, what rule obtains in Washington. Until the purchasemoney was accepted, there was no occasion to prepare any
instrument for execution. So long as that was refused the
preparation of a trust deed was a work of supererogation.
Besides, the execution of the trust deed by'the complainant
was to be simultaneous with the execution of a conveyance
by the defendant. The two were to be concurrent acts; and
if the complainant was to prepare one of them, the defendant was to prepare the other, and it is not pretended that the
defendant acted in the matter at all.
The objection to the trust deed, founded upon the omission of the name of the complainant's brother as a co-grantor, does not merit consideration. All that. the defendant
had to do was to see that he got a trust deed, as security for
the deferred payments, from the party to whom he transferred the title.
The defendant states in his testimony that when the lease
was executed he objected to the stipulation for a sale of the
premises, and that the defendant told him that it should go
for nothing. And it has been argued by counsel that this
evidence should control the terms of the covenant. The
answer to the position taken is brief and decisive. First,
n8thing of the kind is averred in the answer; second, the
testimony of the defendant in this particular is distinctly
contradicted by that of the complainant, and is inconsistent
with the attendant circumstances; and third, the evidence
is inadmissible. When parties have reduced their contracts
to writing, conversations controlling or changing their stipulations are, in the absence of fraud, no more received in a
court of equity than in a court of law.
Upon a full consideration of the positions of the defendant we perceive none which should preclude the complainant from claiming a specific performance of the contract.
The only question remaining is, upon what terms shall the
devree be made? and upon this we have no doubt.

WILLARD

v.

TAYLOE.

(Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The parties, at the time the proposition to sell, embodied
in the covenant of the lease, was made, had reference to the
currency then recognized by law as a legal tender, which
consisted only of gold and silver coin. It was for a specific
number of dollars of that character that the offer to sell was
made, and it strikes one at once as inequitable to compel a
transfer of the property for notes, worth when tendered in
the market only a little more than one-half of the stipulated price. Such a substitution of notes for coin could not
have been in the possible expectation of the parties. Nor
is it reasonable to suppose, if it had been, that the covenant
would ever have been inserted in the lease without some
provision against the substitution. The complainant must,
therefore, take his decree upon payment of the stipulated
price in gold and silver coin. Whilst he seeks equity he
must do equity.
The decree of the court below will, therefore, be REVERSED,
and the cause remanded with directions to enter a decree for
the execution, by the defendant to the complainant, of a
conveyance of the premises with warranty, subject to the
yearly ground-rent specified in the covenant in the lease,
upon the payment by the latter of the instalments past due,
with legal interest thereon, in gold and silver coin of the
United States, and upon the execution of a trust deed of the
premises to the defendant as security for the payment of the
remaining instalments as they respectively become due, with
legal interest thereon, in like coin; the amounts to be paid
and secured to be stated, and the form of the deeds to be settled, by a master; the costs to be paid by the complainant.
The CHIEF JUSTICE with NELSON, J., concurred in
the conclusion as above announced-that the complainant
was entitled to specific performance on payment of the price
of the land in gold and silver coin-but expressed their inability to yield their assent to the argument by which, in this
case, it was supported.

