Dec. 1868.]

PROPELLER MOHAWK.

Syllabus.

all whiskey and all brandy from fruits manufactured in the
State. In order to collect this tax, every distiller is compelled
to take out a license and to make regular returns of the
amount of distilled spirits manufactured by him. On this
he pays fifty cents per gallon. So that when we come in the
light of these earlier sections of the act, to examine the 13th,
14th, and 15th sections, it is found that no greater tax is laid
on liquors brought into the State than on those manufactured
within it. And it is clear that whereas collecting the tax of
the distiller was supposed to be the most expedient mode of
securing its payment, as to liquors manufactured within the
State, the tax on those who sold liquors brought in from
other States was only the complementary provision necessary to make the tax equal on all liquors sold in the State.
As the effect of the act is such as we have described, and it
institutes no legislation which discriminates against the products of sister States, but merely subjects them to the same
rate of taxation which similar articles pay that are manufactured within the State, we do not see in it an attempt to
regulate commerce, but an appropriate and legitimate exercise of the taxing power of the States.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice NELSON dissented.
preceding case, supra, p. 140.

See his opinion in the

PROPELLER MOHAWK.

1. Where insurers, to whom the owners have adandoned, take possession, at
an intermediate place or port, of goods damaged during a voyage by the
fault of the carrier, and there sell them, they cannot bold the carrier
liable on his engagement to deliver at the end of the voyage in good
order and condition.
2. Facts stated which amount to such action on the part of the insurers.
3. Insurers, so accepting at the intermediate port, are liable for freight pro
rataitinerison the goods accepted.
4. The explosion of a boiler on a steam vessel is not a "peril of navigation"
within the term as used in the exception in bills of lading.

154

PROPELLER MOHAWK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
5. The court expresses its satisfaction that it could, in accordance with
principles of law, decide against a party who had bought, and was prosecuting a claim, that the original party was not himself willing to prosecute; it characterizes such a purchaser suing as "1a volunteer in a
speculation."
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Illinois, the case being thus:
On the 31st of October, 1860, two parties, owners of it,
shipped on board the propeller Mohawk, the vessel being
then at Chicago, and as was admitted in a stipulation of
record, " in good and seaworthy condition," two consigninentsof wheat, amounting to 20,200 bushels, to be delivered
at Buffalo in good order and condition, dangers of navigation
excepted, upon payment of freight and charges. The property was insured by an insurance company at the last-named
place for $20,000. The propeller proceeded on her voyage,
and after the same had been more than half completed,
grounded on the 7th of November on the St. Clair Flats,
near Detroit. In the effort to get her off she became disabled by the bursting of her boiler, and afterwards sunk,
and was compelled to suspend her voyage for a few days to
make necessary repairs.
All the wheat but 1100 bushels got wet and was damaged
by the sinking of the propeller. Upon information then
given to the consignee and insurers at Bufalo, the agent of
the owners of the wheat immediately abandoned it to the
underwriters as for a total loss, and the latter then accepted
the abandonment and paid the loss to the owners as for a
total loss.
On the 11th of*November, the underwriters ordered their
agent at Detroit to take possession of the damaged wheat,
and to sell it as it lay in the vessel at the flats, and the agent
thereupon did sell the damaged portion of it to one Phelps,
for $1200, and took his note therefor, at 30 days. A delivery into lighters to the purchaser began on the same day.
The next day (the 12th) the agent reported the sale, and on the
13th received a telegram from his company acknowledging
the advices, and approving thereof. After the sale had been

Dec. 1868.]

PROPELLER MOIHAWK.
Statement of the case.

thus made, the company hearing that the master intended to
claim freight, directed the agent to have nothing to do with
the grain, unless the owners of the vessel would relinquish
all claim for freight. It was arranged, however, between
the agent and the master, that as the sale was a good one, it
should stand, and that the freight should be left for after consideration. The whole of the damaged portion of the cargo,
amounting to 19,100 bushels, was delivered by the propeller
to the purchaser, Phelps, and the residue, 1100 bushels, was
retained on board, and carried by the propeller to Buffalo,
where it arrived safely. On that residue the insurance company tendered full freight and all other lawful charges, including a sum to cover general average charges; but refused
to pay either pro rata or full freight on the wheat delivered
on the flats. The master accordingly refused to deliver the
1100 bushels; the value of it being less than the freight on
it and the pro ratafreight on the larger quantity sold; and he
asserting that he was entitled to freight on the entire shipment, either in full, or pro rata.
Soon after this (though with how correct a knowledge of
facts was a matter, as it seemed, subsequently disputed by
counsel), the counsel of the insurance company on the one
hand, and of the shippers on the other, agreed upon a statement of facts, and on it the company brought suit in the
Superior Court of Buffalo, to test the liabilities of the shippers upon the facts as then supposed. The insurance company, however, acting herein against the urgency of their
agent at Detroit, "who never expressed but one opinion,
which was, that the carriers were liable and ought to be
sued," after some time discontinued this suit.
After this, that is to say, in July, 1862, and through the
same agent, the claim of the company on the carriers was
sold to one Barrell, for about $2300.
Libels were now filed, August, 1862, in the District Court
of Illinois in the names of the owners of the wheat, claiming damages for the non-delivery of it. After hearing, the
libels were dismissed. Thereupon an appeal was taken to
the Circuit Court.

PROPELLER MOHAWK.

[Sul). CJt

Statement of the case.

Barrell now presented his petition tQ that court, stating
that the underwriters had assigned their interest in the cargo
to him, and that he was equitably interested and entitled to
intervene, and have the benefit of both of the above libels.
On this petition the Circuit Court consolidated both causes,
and made order that he be subrogated to all the rights of
the libellants, and that he have leave to file an amended
libel. ie did accordingly file such a libel, alleging the shipping of the cargo on board the Mohawk; that the propeller
left port in good and seaworthy condition, and that after the
voyage was more than half completed she was carelessly
grounded on the St. Clair Flats. lie also alleged the abandonment, and averred that the underwriters had suffered
damages on account of the injury to the wheat, as well as
for the non-delivery of the 1100 bushels detained by the propeller; and that he, as assignee of the insurance company,
was entitled to recover therefor.
To this libel answer was made, denying negligence in
grounding the vessel; admitting the non-delivery of the
1100 bushels of wheat, and asserting a right to hold it for
freight; both that earned on the wheat actually delivered at
St. Clair Flats, and on the 1100 bushels transported to Buffalo; abandonment was admitted; any assignment from the
insurance company was denied; and the character of that
transaction set forth with allegations, in substance, that it
savored of maintenance. The substance of this answer was
also proved.
The note at thirty days for $1200, given by the purchaser
Phelps, was still in possession of the insurance company.
The Circuit Court affirmed the decree of the District
Court, and the case was now here, on the action of Barrell,
for review.
The appellant made two claims:
1. To have damages for injury to the cargo by the sinking
of the propeller.
2. To have the 1100 bushels which the propeller had re-

Dec. 1868.]

PROPELLER MOHAWK.
Argument for the appellant.

tained, or their value, upon paying the freight earned on that
parcel only.
Mr. S. W. Fuller,with whom was Mr. R-oe, for the appellant:
The first and chief question is, whether the carriers, having lost the body of the wheat through an explosion of a
boiler, their own fault, they are discharged from obligation
to pay the loss, owing to the insurers, who in this matter
are the owners, having directed the sale of that pbrtion of
the wheat, in the circumstances of this case?
The moment of the disaster was, of course, an exigent
one. The thoughts of all parties were directed obviously,
and in an amicable spirit and mode of action, to saving the
cargo, or of doing the best by it that circumstances allowed.
In regard to everything but the matter of freight, all parties
were of one mind; and the difference about this was adjusted in the same spirit which seems to have animated them
in everything that was done, a spirit of present effort for the
benefit of all concerned. A remission was accordingly made
until a future time of the only question of difference arising.
But this did not interfere with the common effort for the
common advantage. It is in this way, that upon the evidence we see the parties; and upon it, we see them in no
other. Least of all do we discover in what they do an attempt to fix liabilities where none existed, or to discharge
them where they did. No doubt, it was the right and duty
of the carrier to transport the cargo to Buffalo, according
to the terms of the bills of lading, in order to earn and become entitled to freight; but the disaster to the propeller,
whereby the wheat was damaged, having rendered it necessary*and proper for all concerned, to join in saving as much
of it as could be, the effort of the insurance company to
help him, neither entitled him to full freight, nor released
him from liability for loss occasioned by his negligence.
Whatever acceptance was made, was in some sort compulsory
and for the carrier's benefit.
We have assumed that the explosion was through the
carrier's fault. Certainly it was so. An explosion is not a

PROPELLER MOHAWK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellee.

"danger" incident to navigation, any more than the breaking of a chain on quiet water, or the falling of a mast when
there is no wind.* It occurs either from defect in the boiler,
or from negligence in the engineer. Perils arising on the
sea are not necessarily perils arising from the sea.
But if the vessel is not liable for the whole value of the
wheat, it ought surely to demand freight upon only what it
has delivered. All our preceding observations apply to this
part of the case.
Mr. Beckwith, contra:
1. The insurers accepted and took possession of the damaged wheat and sold it to Phelps, and requested the propeller
to deliver the property at the St. Clair Flats; they then took
his note for the price. The sale was then completed, and
the purchaser invested with title as against the insurers.
How can they set up a claim of any kind for the non-delivery of the wheat, even supposing that the explosion did
happen through their own fault,-after thus taking it off
the carrier's hands and preventing his delivery of it? But
2. The explosion was not through the carrier's fault.
The immediate cause of damage was the sinking of the vessel; the vessel was sunk by the explosion of' its boiler; the
boiler exploded in an effort to set afloat the grounded vessel;
and the vessel was grounded in the channel of the St. Clair
Flats, without fault of its officers or men. It is admitted
that the propeller left port in good and seaworthy condition; and
she continued her voyage until she was grounded. Nothing
had occurred, in the meantime, to disturb the good and seaworthy condition in which she set out. The admission applies as well to the condition of the boiler at the time of leaving; and, as nothing is shown to have occurred after the vessel
left port to render the boiler defective, it is wrong to presume
that the explosion occurred from a defect in the boiler.
3. Independently of all this, another matter, in its nature
preliminary, though here put last, deserves attention from
*

Bulkley v. Naumkeag Steam Cotton Company, 24 Howard, 386, affirm-

ing The Bark Edwin, I Sprague, 477.

Dec. 1868.]

DPROPELLER

MOHAWK.

Opinion of the court.

the bench. Barrell's standing in court is that of a volun-

-

teer purchasing and prosecuting a claim which his alleged
assignor declined to prosecute or insist upon. The assignment did not transfer a legal title, and has merely an equitable operation. In considering the locus standiof the assignee,
equitable considerations will therefore govern. The assignment savors of maintenance; the right thereunder is claimed
by a volunteer; and in a court of equity the appellant would
not, for these reasons, be entitled to relief.* And in such a
case, where a court of admiralty is called on to aid a party
standing upon an equitable right, it will follow the rules of
equity, and deny relief.t
Reply.-As to the question of the appellant'sstatus. The law
subrogated the insurance company to the rights of the
owners of the damaged cargo, and, in ignorance, the insurance company sold to the appellant a claim, which it regarded as worthless. Then, after suits had been brought in
the names of the owners of the cargo, the court, for economy
and convenience, allowed the two suits to be consolidated,
and the real owner of the claim to be admitted to prosecute
the suit. In this there was nothing champertous; nothing
but what was sanctioned in Cobb v. Howard et al.. As Grier,
J., said, in the PropellerMonticello v. Mollison.ยง
"The respondent is not presumed to know, or bound to inquire, as to the relative equities of parties claiming the damages.
Hfe is bound to make satisfaction for the injury he has done.
When be has once made it to the injured party, he cannot be
made liable to another suit at the instance of any merely
equitable claimant."
Both the 84th and 43d rules in admiralty justify what was
done.
Mr. Justice NTELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The insurance company, having accepted the abandon* Ward v. Van Bokkelen, 2 Paige, 289.
t Brig Ann Pratt, 1 Curtis, 342.
17 Howard, 155.

8 Blatchford, 524.

PROPELLER MOHAWK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ment of the wheat by the owner, after the disaster to the
vessel, became subrogated to all the rights of the shipper,
and might have left the responsibility upon the master to
refit his vessel, or procure another, and forward the wheat to
its port of delivery, according to the contract in the bill of
lading. The vessel could have been refitted within a short
time; and this port was but a few days' navigation from the
place of the disaster. Besides, it occurred in the track of
vessels from Chicago, and other ports on the upper lakes,
and there could have been but little difficulty in procuring
the shipment in another vessel.
But no choice was left to the master, whether to refit his
vessel or send on the cargo in another, or to communicate
with his owners, who were in Buffalo, as to the proper course
to be pursued. The second day after the disaster, the agent
of the insurance company appeared with instructions to take
possession of the damaged wheat, and sell it as it lay in the
vessel. Possession was given up accordingly, and the wheat
sold on the same day, the sale perfected, and a delivery into
lighters commenced to the purchaser. After this, the company fearing that the master would charge freight upon this
damaged wheat, countermanded the original order to sell,
unless the master would relinquish it. This he declined to
do, but suggested to the agent the sale was a favorable one,
and that the question of freight might remain for after-consideration; which was agreed to.
We think it quite clear that the counter order, not to sell,
came too late. The wheat had been turned over into the possession of the agent, who had sold it, and a portion had been
delivered from the vessel to the purchaser. The agent had
received complete possession and control of the wheat, and
thereby rescinded the contract in the bill of lading for further shipment; and it reqjuired the assent of both parties
to revive it. This counter order, however, and the action
under it, are significant of the intent of the insurance coinpany in accepting the delivery of the wheat. It was to receive the possession in discharge of any further responsibility
of the vessel. The only thing in controversy was the claim

Dec. 1868.]

PROPELLER MOHAWK.
Opinio

of the court.

of freight, and, undoubtedly, if the counter order had not
been too late, unless the master had consented to give up
the freight, he could have been compelled to forward the
wheat as per bill of lading, or be answerable for the refusal
or neglect.
In cases where the disaster happens in consequence of one
of the perils within the exception in the bill of lading, or
charter-party, the only responsibility of the vessel is to refit,
and forward the cargo, or the portion saved, or if that is impracticable, to forward it in another vessel, and the owner
is then entitled to freight. If part of the cargo is so far
damaged as to be unfit to be carried on, the master may sell
it at the intermediate port, as the agent of the shippe'r, for
whom it may concern, and carry ou the remainder. In this
class of cases the vessel is only responsible for carrying on
the cargo, being exempt from any damage by the exception
in the contract of affreightment. And it is perfectly settled,
that if the shipper voluntarily accepts the goods at the place
of the disaster, or at any intermediate port, such acceptanpe
terminates the voyage and all responsibility of the carrier,
and the master is entItled to freight pro rata itineris.*
The same rule, as it respects the effect of the voluntary
acceptance of the goods at the place of the disaster, or intermediate port, applies in case the ship is disabled or prevented
from forwarding them to the port of destination by a peril
or accident not within the exception in the bill of lading.t
The only difference between the cases ii, that inasmuch
as, in the latter, the vessel is responsible for all the damages
that have resulted frbm the misfortune to the cargo, the
proofs of the acceptance of the goods at the intermediate
port, in order to operate as a discharge of the vessel, should
The mere acceptance in such
be clear and satisfactpry.
'Welsh v. Hicks, 6 Cowen, 504; Abbott on Shipping, 554-5, and note;
1 Parsons on Shipping, 239, n. 2; lb. 273; 31aude & Pollock, Law of Shipping, 239, 221.
t Osgood v. Groning, 2 Campbell, 471; Liddard v. Lopes, 10 East, 526;
The Newport, Swabia, 335, 342; Abbott on Shipping, 452, 453-5; Hadley
v. Clarke, 8 Term, 259 ; Spence v Chodwick, 10 Queen's Bench, 517.
11
VOL. VIII.

PIROPELLER

M0IIAWK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cases, and nothing else passing between the parties, ought
not to preclude the shipper of his remedy. It should appear
from the evidence and circumstances attending the transaction that the acceptance was intended as a discharge of
the vessel and owner from any further responsibility-what
would be equivalent to a mutual arrangement, express or implied, by which the original contract in the bill of lading was
rescinded. The ground of the exemption from responsibility
of the vessel, in both cases, is the voluntary acceptance of
the goods at the intermediate port. Applying these principles to the present case, we think the court can come to
but one result. It falls within the second class of cases
above referred to, as the explosion of the boiler was not a
peril within the exception in the bill of lading.*
The acceptance, as we have already seen, was the voluntary act of the insurance company, without any solicitation
or interference on the part of the master; and what would
seem conclusive of the intent of the company in the transaction is, that they refused to bring a suit against the carrier
to recover for the damaged wheat, although urged to it by
the parties who afterwards took an assignment of the subject
of litigation. Some $2300 was paid for a claim which, if
real and substantial, amounted to $20,000.
What is still further evidence of the understanding of the
insurance company of the eflct of the acceptance and sale
is, that they brought a suit to recover the value of the one
thousand one hundred bushels of sound wheat, in the Superior
Court of Buffalo alone; but even this was subsequently discontinued. The suit in the present case has been instituted
by a volunteer, on a speculation; and we are not sorry that,
upon the application of the principles of law governing it,
the experiment must fail.
As to the freight, the cases we have above referred to establish that the master is entitled to freight pro rata ilineris
in all cases where there has been a voluntary acceptance of
* Bulkley v. Naumkeag Steam Cotton Company, 24 Howard, 386; S. C.
1 Clifford, 322-324; 1 Sprague, 477.

Dec. 1868.]

MCKEE V. UNITED STATES.
. Statement of the case.

the goods at the port of disaster. The rate is to be ascertained by comparing the portion of the voyage performed
with the entire length of it.*
In the present case the goods were carried something more
than half the distance; and, upon the facts as admitted in
the record, the freight would exceed the value of the one
thousand and one hundred bushels of wheat at the port of
delivery at the time it arrived.
No balance is shown to be due to the libellant on the
wheat. The libel, therefore, was properly dismissed by the
court below.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

MCKEE V. UNITED STATES.
1. The military authorities had no power under the act of July 13th, 1861, to
license commercial intercourse between the seceding States and the rest
of the United States. The Ouachita. Cotton case (6 Wallace, 521) affirmed.
2. Such trade was not authorized in March, 1864, by regulations prescribed
by the Secretary of the Treasury in pursuance of the said act, but, on
the contrary, was at that time forbidden by the then existing regulations of the treasury.
3. Even supposing such trade to have been licensed in March, 1864, in pursuance of the act of July 13th, 1861, the license would not have authorized a purchase by a citizen of the United States from any person then
holding an office or agency under the government of the so-called Confederate States; all sales, transfers, or conveyances by such persons being made void by the act of July 17th, 1862.
APPEAL from the District Court for Southern Illinois,
condemning certain cotton claimed by John H. McKee.
The case was this:
Congress, by act of Julyl~th, 1861,t passed soon after the
outbreak of the late insurrection against the United States,
enacted that it might. be lawful for the President, by proclamation, to declare that the inhabitants of any State or
part of a State where such insurrection was existing were
"4 1 ]Kent's Commentaries, 230.

t12 Star. at :Large, 257.

