Dec. 1869.]

PARISH ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

489

Statement of the case.

PARISH ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.
1. A contract made by a surgeon and medical purveyor of a military department of the United States, with parties for furnishing ice, for the
use of the sick and wounded in the hospitals of the United States in
1864, was invalid until approved by the Secretary of War. Without
such approval the surgeon could not bind the United States in any way.
2. A contract thus approved being executed by the other parties, superseded
a previous contract signed by the surgeon, although the latter conformed strictly to proposals made by the parties, and accepted by the
surgeon.

from the Court of Claims.

The case was thus:
On the 4th of December, 1863, D. L. Magruder, the surgeon and medical purveyor of the military department of
the West, acting under instructions of the Surgeon-General
of the United States, gave notice that proposals would be
received at his office in Louisville, Kentucky, until the 20th
of that month, for furnishing ice to all the general hospitals
of the United States at the West, including the division of
the Mississippi and the Department of the Gulf, in such
quantities as might be required, for the use of the sick and
wounded, during the year 1864. Under this notice, Parish &
Co., the claimants, submitted proposals which were accepted,
and, on the 13th of the same month, a contract was prepared
and signed by them and Magruder, by which they were to
furnish ice for twenty different places, one of which was
New Orleans. It was understood between the parties that
this contract was not to be binding until it should receive
the approval of the Surgeon-General, to whom it was forwarded. It received such approval, and was then despatched
by mail to Magruder; but, before reaching him, the approval
was reconsidered, and the contract, by order of the Secretary
of War, was recalled, and the draft of another contract prepared in its place. After this draft had reached Magruder,
he was directed by the secretary to erase from it the name
of New Orleans, as one of the places to be supplied with ice,
and have it executed in lieu of the contract originally proposed, and this was done. The claimants then executed
APPEAL

PARISH ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the instrument, but, in doing so, they protested against the
alteration, stating, however, that they would lay all the facts
before the officials at Washirigton, and seek from them redress. But, notwithstanding this protest, they treated the
contract thus made as the only one binding upon them, and
carried out their obligations under it. They did not deliver,
-or offer to deliver, any ice at New Orleans.
Mr. A. L. Merriman,for the appellant; Hr. T. L. -Dickey,
Assistant Atorney-General, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
Upon the facts fbund by the Court of Claims, it is difficult
to perceive upon what ground the contractors can urge any
claim for damages against the government. The contract
with New Orleans erased, superseded all other proposed contracts. No other had any validity. The action of Magruder,
until the approval of the Secretary of War, was merely initiatory to a contract. He could not bind the United States in
any way.
If the claimants had any objections to the provisions of
the contract they signed, they should have refused to make
it. Having made it, and executed it, their mouths are closed
against any denial that it superseded all previous arrangements.
The case of Gilbert & Secor v. United States,* is one much
stronger than this. There it was insisted that the act of Congress, under which the secretary acted in making a contract
with Gilbert & Secor, was itself an acceptance of certain
proposals presented by them, and that, taken in connection
with the proposals, it constituted a coDtract binding on the
government. The secretary made with the parties a contract requiring, in one particular, different kind of materials
from those originally proposed; but this court held that the
parties were bound by the contract signed, and could not
claim any compensation fbr the difference in value between
the materials used and those proposed.
* Supra, 358.

Dec. 1869.]

ALDRICH V.

ETNA COMPANY.

491

Statement of the case.

But, independent of any consideration respecting the character of the contract, it nowhere appears that the claimants
suffered any damages from the supposed injury alleged.
They did not offer to deliver any ice at New Orleans, and it
is not shown that they secured any for such delivery, or, if
they secured any, that they were unable to part with it at
prices as remunerative as those they might have obtained at
New Orleans.
The appeal is frivolous, and the decree of the court beAFFIRMED.
low is
ALDRICH V. .fTNA COMPANY.
1. A judgment in the highest court of law or equity of a State, if otherwise
a proper subject for review here, under the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act, is not rendered incapable of being reviewed by the fact that judgment was rendered on a voluntary submission of a case agreed on for
judgment, under the provisions of the code of the State.
2. An allowance of a writ of error by the chief judge of the court in which
the judgment was, in fact, rendered, is not ground for dismissing the
writ of error, though the record, by order of such court, may have been
sent to an inferior court, and an additional entry of what was ddjudged
in the appellate one there entered.
8. A defendant, who has waived the irregularity by an appearance, cannot
object to jurisdiction, because the citation is not signed by the judge who
allowed the writ of error.
4. When the question in the highest court of law or equity of a State is
whether the mortgage of a vessel, duly recorded under an act of Congreis, givesa better lien than an attachment issued under a State
A statute,
and the decision is, that it does not; a proper case exists for review in
this court, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
5. The mortgage of a vessel, duly recorded, under an act of Congress, cannot be defeated by a subsequent attachment, under a State statute, enacting, that no mortgage of such property shall be valid, as against the
interests of third persons, unless possession be delivered to and remain
with the mortgagee, or the mortgage be recorded in a manner specified,
in which a mortgage, whose lien in this case was the subject of controversy, was not. WVhite's Bank v. Smith (7 Wallace, 646) affirmed.
ERROR

to the Court of A ppeals of New York.

The code of pro~edure of the State of New York* thus
enacts:
.

372, 374.

