Dec. 1869.]

UNITED

STATES V. SMITH.

Syllabus.

of Muscatine was created, which limited the taxing power
of its authorities to one per cent. per annum. The later law
must repeal the former if they are inconsistent. But they
are not so. It is only necessary to hold that persons giving
credit to the city, with a knowledge of this limit to its taxing powers, must do so on the condition of waiting until
that amount of tax will pay them, or until the legislature
shall remove the restriction; and that within that limit the
code gives them a right to compel the exercise of the taxing power to pay the debt so created. Such has been the
reasonable construction given to the code by the courts of
Iowa for many years and by the Circuit Court of the United
States for that district for several years past, and never contradicted by any court until the present time.
These frequent dissents ih this class of subjects are as distasteful to me as they can be to any one else. But when I
am compelled, as I was last spring, by the decisions of this
court, to enter an order to commit to jail at one time over a
hundred of the best citizens of Iowa, for obeying as they
thought their oath of office required them to do, an injunction issued by a competent court of their own State, founded,
as these gentlemen conscientiously believed, on the true interpretation of their own statute, an injunction which, in my
own private judgment, they were legally bound to obey, I
must be excused if, when sitting here, I give expression to
convictions which my duty compels me to disregard in the
Circuit Court.

UNIAED STATES V. SMITH.

under the act of June 30th,

1864, to provide internal revenue to support the
government, &c., which requires a license to persons exercising certain
occupations, and fixes the limit to its duration, the parties to the bond
given on the granting of the license, are not bound to answer for any
breach of the condition of the bond after the expiration of the license.

ON certificate of division between the judges of the Nor.
thern District of Ohio; the case being this:

UNITED STATES V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The act of June 30th, 1864, "to provide internal revenue
to support the government, to pay interest on the public debt,
and for other purposes," enacts, by its 71st section,* that no
person shall carry on the business of a coal oil distiller until
he have obtained a license in the manner prescribed.
The 73d section subjects all persons who violate the enactmerit to fine and imprisonment.
"The 74th section enacts that all licenses granted after
the 1st day of May in any year, shall continue in force until
the 1st day of May in any year next succeeding."
The 53d section of the same act provides that any person
required by law to be licensed as a distiller, before distilling
any spirits, shall, in addition to what is required by other
provisions of law, make an application for a license to the
assessor of the district; and that before the same is issued
the person applying shall give bond with surety conditioned
that he will render to the assessor, on the certain days of each
month, during the continuance of the license, an exact account
of the number of gallons of spirits distilled, &c., and' that he
will pay to the collector the duties on them.
And the 94th section provides that "distillers of coal oil
shall be subject to all the provisions of laws applicable to
distillers of spirits with regard to licenses, bonds, &c., and
all other provisions designed for the purpose of securing the
payment of duties, so fir as the same may, in thejudclqnent of
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and under regulationsprescribed by him, be deemed necessary for that purpose."
The act of June 30th, 1864-which is one of great length,
and contains a hundred and eighty-two sections, some of
them with numerous subdivisions and. schedules-repeals a
prior act of July 1st, 1862, with a title similar to its own.
With this statute of 1864 in force, Smith got a license as
a distiller of coal oil on the 27th May, 1865, and gave bond
with surety conditioned that lie, Smith, should conform to
all the provisions of an act entitled "An act to provide internal revenue," &c., approved July 1st, 1862, and of such
* 13 Stat. at Large, 248; and see

79, art. 19.

Ded'. 1869.]

UNITED

STATES

V.

SMITH.

Opinion of the court.

other act or acts as were then or might thereafter be in that behalf
enacted.
Upon suit brought by the T nited States against him and
his surety in the court below, for breaches of the condition
of the bond at various times during the months of June and
July, 1866, the judges there were divided in opinion upon
the question whether he or his surety were liable for any
breach after the 1st of May, 1866; to wit, after the expiration of the license granted to them in May, 1865.

Mr. BHoar, Attorney- General, and Mr. Field, Assistant Attorney-General,for the United States; Mr.Wills, contra.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of July 1st, 1862, has been inserted in the bond ex
majori cautela; for it is admitted that the act of June 30th,
1864, entitled "An act to provide internal revenue, to support the government, to pay the interest on the public debt,
and for other purposes," is the only act applicable to this
case. The act of 1862 was repealed by it.
As might be expected in an act embracing the almost innumerable subjects of taxation contained in this one, and
covering more than seventy pages of the statute-book, provisions may probably be found in one part of it difficult to be
reconciled with sone contained in other parts. Yet, when
carefully examined, we find no difficulty in answering the
question proposed.
The seventy-first section of the act is the one which prescribes the conditions under which licenses shall be given.
The seventy-third section subjects all persons who neglect
it, to fine and imprisonment.
The seventy-fourth section fixes the limit to the license,
beyond which time the parties to the bond are not bound to
answer ibr any breach of the condition.
The provisions of the fifty-third and ninety-fourth sections
of the act, which subject distillers of coal oil to the provisions of the act applicable to the distillers of spirits, " so far
as the same may, in the judgment of the Commissioner of

590

THE POTOMAC.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Internal Revenue, be deemed necessary," have no application to the point. The commissioner has exercised nojudgment, and prescribed no regulations on the subject, so far as
appears. The bond has no reference to such conditions as
are required in distillery bonds, and cannot be affected by
them. " 'Tis not so written in the bond."
ORDERED that it be certified to the judges of the Circuit
Court, in answer to the question submitted, that the defendants are
NOT LIABLE.

TI E POTOMAC.
1. Although the duty of vessels propelled by steam is to keep clear of those
moved by wind, yet these latter must not, by changing their course,
instead of keeping on it, put themselves carelessly in the way of the
former, and so render ineffective their movements to give the sailing
vessels sufficient berth.
2. The confessions of a master, in a case of collision, are evidence against
the owner.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of New York,
in a case of collision between the schooner Bedell and the
steamer Potomac, in the Chesapeake Bay, resulting in the
total loss of the schooner. The collision occurred on a starlight night in July. The schooner was heading about north,
going up the bay, sailing by the wind, closehauled, with a
fresh breeze, west-northwest. Whcther or not she had a
light on board was a matter about which the evidence was
contradictory; the weight of it being to the effect that she
had not. The steamer, with a good lookout and a full numDer of seamen, was descending the bay and sailing due south
at about nine miles an hour, with all her lights set and
brightly burning. When about three-quarters of a mile off
the schooner was discovered on the starboard bow of the
steamer by the lookout of the steamer, who reported the
fact to the officer in charge. The order was immediately
given to starboard the helm two points, and after this was

