REESIDE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

REESIDE V. UNITED STATES.
Under the act of 28th February, 1861, which authorizes the PostmasterGeneral to discontinue, under certain circumstances specified, the postal
service on any route, a" suspension" during the late rebellion at the
Postmaster-General's discretion, of a route in certain rebellious States,
with a notice to the contractor that he would be held responsible for.a
renewal when the Postmaster-General should deem it safe to renew the
service there, was held to be a discontinuance; and the mail carrier's
contract with the government calling for a month's pay if the postmaster discontinued the service, it was adjudged that he was entitled to
a month's pay accordingly.

from the Court of Claims, the case being thus:
In 1859, and subsequently, Reeside made certain contracts
with the Postmaster-General to carry the mail until 30th
June, 1862, over certaiq parts of Arkansas, Mississippi, and
Louisiana. Each contract contained a provision that the
Postmaster-General might discontinue or curtail the service,
in whole or in part, whenever the public interests required
it, he allowing one month's pay on the amount of the service dispensed with. Early in 1861, as is known, the late rebellion
in the Southern States broke out; the States above particularly mentioned, joining in it. In view of the condition of
things, Congress enacted,* on the 28th F.ebruary, 1861:
APPEAL

"That whenever, in the opinion of the Postmaster-General,
the postal service cannot be safely continued, or the post-office
revenues collected, or the postal laws maintained on any post
route, by reason of any cause whatever, the Postmaster-General
is hereby authorized to discontinue the postal'service on such
route, or any part thereof, and any post-offices thereon, till the
same can be safely restored," and shall report his action to Congress.
And it was part of the case, as found by the court below,
that on the 15th April following, "a state of actual war"
12 Stat. at Large, 177.

:Dec. 1868.]

IREESIDE V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

existed between the United States and the States in which
the contracts were to be executed.
On the 27th of May, 1861, the Postmaster-General issued
an order suspending the service on all the routes till further
order, from and after May 31st. lReeside requested the
Postmaster-General, instead of suspending the service, to
annul the contracts. But this the Postmaster-General refused to do, and Reeside was informed that he would be
held responsible under the contracts and be ordered to renew the service whenever, in the opinion of the PostmasterGeneral, it would be safe to do so.
No special notice of the discontinuance was ever served
on him.
On the 13th July, 1861, Congress authorized the President,
under certain circumstances which it set forth, to issue a
proclamation declaring any one of several Southern States,
which it named (and which included the three through which
IReeside's contract called on him to carry the mail), or any
part of it, to be in insurrection against the United States,
and enacted that thereupon all intercourse should cease between the same and the citizens thereof and the citizens of
the rest of the United States. On the 16th of August following, the President did issue such a proclamation, and
declared these three States, along with some others, to be
in insurrection, and prohibited the intercourse.
Reeside resided in Washington, and the case showed that
it would have taken him twenty days to have gone to Ark ansas, and to have disposed of his property on his several
routes. No part of his stage property was removed from
them.
Reeside, who had been paid up but to the 1st of June,
1861, and whom the Postmaster-General considered entitled
to nothing more, now filed a petition in the court below,
setting forth that taking into consideration the distance
from the seat of government (where, as already said, he resided) to the place of service, he was entitled to receive a
reasonable notice before suspending the mail service on the

REESIDE V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

several routes where he was the contractor, and that he was
entijled, at all events, to his mail pay for one month.
The court below dismissed the claim; and hence this
appeal.
Messrs. Fallerand Carlisle,for the appellant:
The contracts had a term of thirteen months to run, when
their further execution was suspended by order of the Postmaster-General. And the question is, whether the claimant
is entitled to compensation, and if so, the measure of it?
Under the act of February 28th, 1861, the PostmasterGeneral might have discontinued the service, or under the
contract, he might have annulled the service, and put an
end to the contract. But he did neither. iHe simply suspended the service for the time being, leaving the contract
unimpaired and in full force. For he notified to the claimant that he would be held responsible, and be ordered to
renew the same whenever, in the opinion of the PostmasterGeneral, it should be safe to do so.
Hence, we submit that Reeside is not bound to accept
one month's extra pay, which his petition asks fbr, as the
measure of his arrearages, but is entitled to ask his full
contract price for the thirteen months.*
The Postmaster-General must have regarded the disturbed
condition of the country, at tie date of his order, as temporary ; and thought that within the thirteen months the condition of public afiaiirs would be such that the postal service
would be resumed on the routes, else he would not have
declined, upon the request of Reeside, to terminate the contract.
But if not entitled to pay for the thirteen months, Reeside
may certainly claim pay till the 16th August, 1861; for the
execution of the contract did not become impossible until
the sovereign power declared all intercourse between the
loyal and disloyal States illegal, which was this said 16th of
August.
Clark v. Marsiglia, 1 Denio, 317.

Dec. 1868.]

IREESIDE V. UNITED

STATES.

Argument for the appellee.

If, however, the contract continued neither for the whole
term', nor until the sovereign power prohibited intercourse,
then it must be because it was discontinued under the clause
of the contract giving power to discontinue. This is the
worst view for the appellant; but even under it, the right
of one mouth's pay is clear.
Mr. Boar, Attorney-General, and Mr. Talb6t, contra:
The case shows, that from the 15th day of April, 1861,
six weeks before the date of the order complained of, "a
state of actual war" existed between the United States and
the States in which those contracts were to be executed.
The execution of the contract had become impossible by
acts of the public enemies, owing to the ouster of the United
States from its actual sovereignty over the territory through
which the claimant's mail routes ran; and it had become so
on the 16th of April, 1861, while the appellant was paid to
the 1st of June, of that year.
The order of suspension was a mere recognition on the
part of the Post-Office Department of this state of war.
The suspension, caused by the war, cannot be held to be
a suspension by the Postmaster-General, such as would give
rise to a claim for one month's pay. Whether or not this
suspension may of itself have operated as a final release of
the contractor from his obligation to complete his contract,
was not the duty of the Postmaster-General finally to determine. It was proper for that officer to decline to decide
that question against his principal, the United States, as he
did, by refusing formally to release the contractor from the
obligations of his contracts.
-Reply:
The finding by the court below of"a state of actual war"
on the 15th of April, is less a fact than an inference of law
from the general history of the times. This court can take
notice of this history and( draw conclusions, as well as the
court below.

42

REESIDE V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the fhcts of this case it is difficult to see how the
government can avoid the payment of the month's pay upon
any principle of justice or equity. The Postmaster-General,
representing in this department the government, refused to
put an end to the contracts; but insisted upon a suspension
only at his pleasure, and at the same time gave notice that
the contractor would be hold responsible for a renewal when
he (the Postmaster-General) should deem it safe to renew
them. Of course, the stage property must be kept on hand
at the expense of the contractor, ready to render the service
when ordered; and, according to the views of the government, without either remuneration or any allowance for the
same, not even the one month's extra pay on the amount
of service dispensed with, which, in express terms, is provided in the contract.
The only answer given to all this is, that a civil war existed
between the United States and the States within which these
mail routes lay, and that all intercourse with them was illegal
upon the principles of international law. Assuming this to
be so, the government would have been justified in putting
an end to the contracts; and, in the absence of any interierence on the part of the government, the contractor might
also have terminated them. But the government did interfere, and forbid the annulment or termination of the service,
and insisted, notwithstanding a state of civil war, that the
contract should continue, and the service be renewed at the
pleasure of the Postmaster-General. The truth is (and this
affords an explanation of the otherwise extraordinary dealings with this contractor) that, although a state of war existed between the United States and several of the Southern
States, or portions of them, the territorial limits within which
it existed was not well defined. Even as late as J uly 13th,
1861, an act of Congress was passed authorizing the President, under the particular circufijstances stated therein, to
issue a proclamation declaring any one of these States, or
any part of it, to be in a state of insurrection against the
United States, and thereupon all intercourse should cease

Dec. 1868.]

RiEESIDE V.

'UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

between the same and the citizens thereof, and the citizens
of the rest of the United States.* This proclamation was
not issued till the 16th of August following, when certain
States, including Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana, were
first declared to be in a state of insurrection within the act,
and all intercourse with the loyal States was prohibited.t
This intercourse was but partially interrupted at the time
these contracts were suspended; and although a disloyal feeling prevailed, and was apparently increasing, yet the policy
of the government was to conciliate the people, and separate
them, if possible, from the leaders; and one of the means
used for this purpose was to continue these mail and postal
accommodations so long as any hope existed of preventing the
rebellion or continuing peaceful relations. The suspe'sion
of these contracts, instead of putting an end to them at once,
and the demand upon the contractor to keep his stage property on hand ready to render service, doubtless grew out of
this policy.
The act of 28th .February, 1861, provided that whenever,
in the opinion of the Postmaster-General, the postal service
cannot be safely continued, &c., for any reason, he was authorized to discontinue the service till the same could be
safely renewed. It was, doubtless, under this act that he
suspended the service in the present case. But this act had
no effect to control the legal import of the contracts, nor did
it confer any greater power than he possessed under them.
According to their terms, he had the power to discontinue
or curtail the service on any route for any cause,- allowing
one month's pay.
It may, we think, be well doubted if the Postmaster-General had the power under this act to discontinue the service,
and still hold the contractor to renew it. It simply confers
power "to discontinue," for any cause, "the postal service
on said route, or any part thereof,' and any post-offices thereon, till the same can be safely restored, and shall report his
action to Congress." INothing is said as to the duty or rights
* 12 Stat. at Large, 257.

t 1b. 1262, appendix.

FURMAN V. INICHOL.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

of contractors; and, in the absence of any provision on the
subject, it would seem to be unreasonable to hold him responsible to renew the service at any future indefinite period.
But it is unnecessary to decide this point.
DECREE REVERSED,

and cause remanded, with directions

to allow one month's pay under the contracts.

FURMAN v. NICHOL.
1. A cause can be removed from a State court into this court under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, whenever some one of the questions embraced in it was relied on by the party who brings the cause here,
and when the right, which he asserted that it gave him, was denied to him
by the State court, provided the record show, either by express averment,
or by clear and necessary intendment, that the constitutional provision
did arise, and that the court below could not have reached the conclusion and judgment it did reach, without applying it to the case in hand.
2. It need not appear that the State court erred in its judgment. It is sufficient to confer jurisdiction that the question was in thecase, was decided
adversely to the plaintiff in error, and that the court was induced by it
to make the judgment which it did.
8. The provision in section 12 of the charter of 1838 of the Bank of Tennessee, "that the bills or notes of said corporation, originally made payable,
or which shall have become payable on demand, in gold or silver coin,
shall be receivable at the treasury of the State, and by till tax collectors
and other public officers, in all payments for taxes or other moneys due
to the State," made a contract on the part of the State with all persons,
that the State would receive for all payments for taxes or other moneys
due to it, all bills of the bank lawfully issued, while the section remained
in force. The guaranty was not a personal one, but attached to the note
It went with the
if so issued ; as much as if written on the back of it.
note everywhere, as long as it lasted, and although after the note was
issued, Section 12 were repealed.
4. Section 603 of the Tennessee dode of 1858, which enacted that besides
Federal money, controllers' warrants, and wild-cat certificates, the collector should receive "such bank notes as are current and passing at
par," did not amount to a repeal of the above quoted 12th section; the
words of the code having no words of negation, the two enactments
being capable of standing together, and implied repeals not being to be
favored.
5. This decision does not apply to issues of the bank while under the control
of the insurgents.

