292

PATTERSON V. DE LA RONDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

PATTERSON V. DE LA RONDE.
1. The 3333d article of the Civil Code of Louisiana, which in English is as
follows:
"The registry preserves the evidence of mortgages and privileges during ten
years, reckoning from the day of their date; their effect ceases even against the
contracting parties if the inscriptions have not been renewed before the expiration of this time, in the manner in which they were first made,"
relates to the effect of the inscription, when. not renewed, not to the
effect of the mortgage, and declares that the inscription preserves such
evidence for ten years, and that its effect ceases if not renewed before
the expiration of that period. This construction of the article reached
by reading the English and French version together-the English and
French being printed in the same volume, by authority of the legislature of that State, in parallel columns, and the French being thus:
"Les inscriptions conservent l'hypotheque et le privildge pendant dix ann6es .
compter dujour de leur date ; lear effet cesse mhme contre les parties contractantes si ces inscriptions n'ont &t6,renouveldes avant l'expiration de ce delai, do
]a mhme maniare quelles ont dtd prises."
2. The general doctrine, where registry of conveyances and mortgages is
required, that knowledge of an existing conveyance or mortgage is, in
legal effect, the equivalent to notice by the registry, is the law of Louisiana as expounded by the decisions of her highest court.
3. Prescription of a mortgage and vendor's privilege does not begin to run,
until the debt secured has matured.
4. By the law of Louisiana, where property, susceptible of being mortgaged,
is to be sold under execution, the sheriff is required to obtain, from the
proper office, a certificate of the mortgages, &c., against it, and to read
it aloud before he cries the property; and also to give notice that the
property will be sold subject to them The purchaserin such case is obliged
to pay to the officer only so much of his bid as may exceed the amount
of the mortgages, &c., and is allowed to retain the amount required to
satisfy them.
The law, in these particulars, having been followed in a sale made in
this case, and, in his deed to the purchaser, tie marshal having recited
his proceedings at the sale; his announcement to the bidders of the
subsisting mortgages on the property, of which the first was a mortgage
of one Mrs. McGee to a certain Hloa; and the retention of the sum bid
by the purchaser to satisfy the amount due thereon ; Held, that by the
terms upon which the purchaser took the property at the marshal's sale,
and the stipulations contained in the marshal's deed accepted by him
and placed on record, he assumed to pay the amount due on Hoa's
mortgage, and could not, therefore, avoid compliance with his contract,
in this respect, on the ground that Hoa's mortgage had, in fact, at the

Dec. 1868.]

PATTERSON V.

DE

LA RONDE.

Statement of the case.
time, lost its priority by not being reinscribed before the expiration of
ten years from its first inscription.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for Louisiana.
The case was thus: In April, 1853, Pierre Hoa sold to
one Mrs. McGee a plantation and several slaves attached
thereto, in Louisiana, for the sum of ninety-five thousand
dollars, and for a portion of the purchase-money took her
seven promissory notes, two of which were payable, respectively, in five and six years from date. In the act of sale
before the notary, which was subscribed by the parties, the
officer, and the attending witnesses, the purchaser stipulated
for a special mortgage on the property, as security for the
payment of her notes; and it was declared that the vendor's
mortgage and privilege should extend, not merely to the
land and slaves, but to the appurtenances of the land and
the improvements. The act of sale was duly recorded in
the register's office of the parish.
Before the maturity of the last note given by Mrs. McGee
on this purchase, and in July, 1858, she executed a mortgage upon the same property to ope Patterson, to secure several notes made by her at the time, amounting to thirty-five
thousand dollars. This mortgage was also duly recorded
in the office of the register of the parish. In it reference
is made to the previous mortgage given by Mrs. McGee in
favor of her vendor, Hoa.
In October, 1865, Patterson brought a suit in the Circuit
Court for the District of Louisiana upon these notes, and, in
February, 1866, recovered judgment for their full amount
and interest. Upon this judgment execution was issued,
and the mortgaged property was sold by the marshal to the
plaintif he being the highest bidder, for the sum of $26,200.
By the law of Louisiana, where property, which is susceptible of being mortgaged, is to be sold under execution, the
sheriff is required to obtain, from the office of the register
of mortgages in the parish, a certificate setting forth the
mortgages and privileges inscribed against the property on

PATTERSON V.

DE

LA RONDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the books of the office, and to read the certificate to the
bystanders at the place of sale before be cries the property.
(Code of Procedure, Art. 678.) The sheriff is also required to give notice at the sale that the property will be
sold subject to all privileges and hypothecations, of every
kind, with which it is burdened. The purchaser in such
case is only obliged to pay to the officer so much of his bid
as may exceed the amount of the privileges and special
mortgages upon the property, and is allowed to retain in his
own hands the amount required to satisfy them.
The law, in these particulars, was followed in the sale
made on the execution in this case. The marshal states in
his return that the sum bid by Patterson was retained in his
hands-first, to pay the mortgage in favor of Hoa; and,
second, to be applied on account of marshal's and clerk's fees,
and the purchaser's own claim. And, in his deed to Patterson, the marshal recites his proceedings at the sale; his
announcement to the bidders of the subsisting mortgages
on the property, of which the first was the mortgage of Mrs.
McGee to Hoa; and the retention of the sum bid by the
purchaser to satisfy the amount due thereon.
Soon after the sale, and before the return was made by
the marshal, or the deed to the purchaser was executed, Hoa
filed what is termed in Louisiana a petition of intervention
and third opposition, a proceeding by which a third person
is allowed to become a party to a suit between other persons,
for the purpose, among other things, of enabling him to
present any claim which he asserts on the proceeds or property seized and sold under the order or judgment of the
court. The object of the intervention of Hoa was to obtain
payment, out of the proceeds of the sale, of the amount due
him of the purchase-money of the mortgaged premises. To
the petition, Patterson, in the first instance, filed an answer,
stating that, at the sale, he bought the property for the sum
of $26,200; that out of this sum lie undertook, according
to law and the proclamation of the marshal, to pay whatever
sum might be due to Hoa, alleged to be a creditor of McGee,
with a mortgage and a vendor's privilege on the plantation

Dec. 1868.]

295

PATTERSON V. DE LA RONDE.
Argument for the appellant.

superior to his own; but that the amount was uncertain and
was not stated by the marshal, and did not apeear by the
register's certificate read by him at the sale.

The answer

then proceeds to detail certain transactions which he insisted
resulted in a novation of the debt of McGee to Hoa, and to
a forfeiture of boa's right, by virtue of his mortgage and
privilege, to prior payment out of the proceeds of the sale.

No point was made in this court upon the sufficiency of the
new matter thus set up, and no further reference to it need
be made. Subsequently, and on the day set for the trial of
the intervention, Patterson filed a peremptory exception to
the demand contained in the petition, to the effect that the
mortgage and priority of privilege of Hoa had been prescribed, and that his privilege had been lost by reason of
the non-reinscription of the mortgage to him within the
delay provided by law.
On the trial the peremptory exception was overruled, and
the intervention and third opposition were sustained, and
judgment was given for the representatives of Hoa (he having died during the pending proceedings) for $25,000 and
interest, "with preference and privilege in the proceeds of
the plantation sold" superior to that of all persons, and particularly to that of Patterson, the plaintiff. A second trial
granted by the court resulted in a similar judgment.
The 3383d section of the Civil Code of Louisiana, published by authority of the legislature of the State, in English
and French, and in parallel columns, is as follows:
IN ENGLISH.

IN FRENCH.

The regisfry preserves the evidences of mortgages and privileges during ten years, reckoning from the day
of their date; their effect ceases even
against the contracting parties if the
inscriptions have not been renewed
before the expiration of this time in
the manner in which they were first
made.

Les inscriptions conservent l1'hypoth~que et le privil6ge pendant dix
ann~es 4 compter du jour de leur
date; leur effit cesse mime centre les
parties contractantes, si ces inscriptions n'ont 6t6 renouvel6es avant l'expiration de ce delai de la m~me mani~re qu'elles ont 6t6 prises.

.Mr. '. Durant,for the appellant:
Under the laws of most of the United States, a mortgage

PATTERSON V.

DE

LA RONDE.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the appellant.

is perfectly, good, as between the parties to it, whether it be
recorded o r not. Those States brought this principle of
their jurisprudence from the country of their origin, England,
in which country registries were not obligatory, nor ever
made, except in special places. And. while most of the States
of our Union require registries, it is only in order that the
rights of subsequent incumbrancers or purchasers bond fide,
and without notice of the prior privilege, may not be cut out
by secret liens. As between the parties, the mortgage, though
never recorded, but on the contrary kept secret, remains as
in the land from which their people came and derive the
body of their laws; that is to say, it remains valid.
But in Louisiana, the whole system of law springs from a
source quite different from that whence most of the States
derive theirs. The genius of the system is different, as different as are France and England, as the French codes and the
common law. Great errors are made in the discussion of a
question like this, by arguing from one system to the other.
Yet independently of the preconceived ideas natural to lawyers or judges bred wholly in the system of the Northern
and Western States, and necessarily ignorant of the French
system, there is no reason why it may not be enacted that a
mortgage not registered every ten years shall not bind property against any one, as why it may not be enacted that unless so registered it shall not bind the property as against subsequent creditors or purchasers. Creditors and purchasers
can examine registries after ten years have expired as well
as before, and, in most of our States, do.
Now the enactment of the code, if' we take the English
side of it, settles this dispute at once. And it does but lead
us to the same conclusion as does our argument, ( priori.
Why shall we not take that English side? The State of
Louisiana, from which the French language has been departing ever since our purchase of it, and is now departing
more and more, acknowledges, in the interpretation of its
code, the supremacy of the language in which the Constitution of our country is indited and proclaimed ; the English
alone.

Dec. 1868.]

PATTERSON

v.

DE LA RONDE.

Argument for the appellee.

But if we take the French side of the column, what then?
The question even then is, at most, but doubtful: The expression "1leur Cfget" may refer to the two singulars, "l'hypothque" and "le privilhge," it being a rule as old as gram-

mar itself, that two singulars allow and sometimes require a
plural verb or adjective. This is just what the English side
declares is the true syntax. The English side-the authoritative side-is plain. The French side is capable of two
meanings, one of them being that which is undeniably the
meaning of the English side.
The recital in Patterson's deed is unimportant. Purchasers of property sold under ft. fa. in Louisiana, are required indeed to take it subject to real mortgages if they be
recorded. But if upon investigation it is found that no real
mortgages exist, the purchaser is not bound to take it subject to mortgages that, by the sheriff's blunder, .are only
imagined. Nor is there injustice in this. The amount of
the non-existent mortgage retained is not necessarily so much
gained by the purchaser if he does not pay the amount to
the imaginary'mortgage. For if the mortgage errofteously
assumed to be a binding one, prove not to be so, then the
purchaser owes the amount to the judgment debtor and must
pay him.*

Mr. Ecarts, contra, having observed thdt the French side
of the cbde, literally translated, reads thus:
(I The inscriptions preserve the mortgage and the privilege during

ten years, reckoning from the day of their date; their effect
ceases, even against the contracting parties, if the inscriptions
have not been renewed .before the expiration of this time, in the
manner in which they were first made"went into a critical examination of the whole system of inscriptions of privileges and mortgages, and their extinction
by prescription, as regulated by the Louisiana code, arguing
that, upon a right view of them, it was manifest that those
same general principles, so familiar to us in their applica* Pickersgill v. Brown, 7 Louisiana Annual, 305

298

PATTERSON V.- DE LA RONDE.

[Sup. Ut.

Argument for the appellee.

tion to the recording acts of the other States and England,
equally obtained in the law of Louisiana.
That inscription was of no application, in respect of the
efficiency of the instruments between the parties to the contracts or their privies, in law or fact, or those brouglt by
their own contract, into knowledge, or obligation of knowledge, of the privilege or mortgage in question.
That in those relations, it added nothing to the force or
durability of the contract, and that its omission neither enervated nor curtailed the contract itself.
That it was solely to affect "third parties," within the definition of the code, with knowledge of what was lawfully
inscribed, by giving them the opportunity of knowledge by
inspection, and visiting the neglect of inspection upon them,
and not upon the party who had made the required inscription.
That reinscription, or its omission, was of no more consequence between parties and privies to these contracts, in
regardto the efficacy of the contracts, than original inscription;
the whole measure of its application being to "thirdparties,"
within the definition of the code, and only in limitation of
the period of time for which they were affected by the opportunity of inspection, and the consequences of its neglect.*
That Patterson was, by the force of his own contracts with
Hoa's vendee, held to the knowledge and the maintenance
of boa's vendor's privilege, and to knowledge of and submission to his mortgage.
That, as mortgagee, he took, in terms and in equity, a
security only on what estate his mortgagor had, and, on the
face of the mortgage to him, had limited her estate to, to
wit: the estate over and above the vendor's privilege for the
unpaid purchase-money.
That, as purchaser,at the marshal's sale, he was affected as
a bidder by the announcement of this vendor's privilege and
mortgage; obtained his deed from the marshal only upon
assenting to assume the satistaction of the debt to the vendor
* Shepherd v. Orleans Cotton Press, 2 Louisiana Annual, 113.

Dec. 1868.]

PATTERSON

V. DE LA RONDE.

2W9

Opinion of the court.

remaining unpaid; and assumed, in the deed, the payment
of the amoupt so due to Hoa..
That the whole defence was rested, not upon any equity or
right on his part; nor on any defect of right or equity on
the part of the defendant in error; nor upon any policy or
principle of the inscription law of Louisiana; but solely upon
some literal obstruction of all this right, equity, policy, and
principle, found, it is argued, in article 3333 of the code.
But that, even this support failed him upon a correct interpretation of the article, and the authorities founded on it.*
Mr. Jtostice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
The only error alleged in the action of the Circuit Court
lies in its ruling upon the peremptory exception. It is contended here, as in that court, that the mortgage and vendor's
privilege of Hoa were prescribed, and that the prescription
resulted from the failure to reinscribe the mortgage within
ten years from the date of the first inscription.
It is supposed that support for this position is found in,
artiole 3333 of the Civil Code of Louisiana; and such would
be the case if, in the construction of the article, we were
confined to its language, as given in English, in the printed
volume published by authority of the legislature of the State.
It would seem from its reading, as thus given, that the omission to reinscribe a mortgage within the time designated,
was intended to have the effect of defeating and annulling
its operation. But, upon examining the language of the
article as given in French, in the same volume (the English
and French being printed in parallel columns), this construc-

tion becomes impossible. Read in the light thus affbrded
its meaning is obvious. It was intended to declare the effict
of the inscription in preserving the evidence of mortgages
* Planters' Bank v. Allard, 8 Mirtin, X. S. 136; Rachal v. Normand, 6
Robinson, 88; Noble v. Cooper, 7 Id. 44; Robinett v. Compton, 2 Louisiana
Annual, 846; Swan v. Moore, 14 Id. 833; Sanders v. Dosson, 3 Id. 587;
Haines v. Verret, 11 Id. 122; Thompson v. Parrent, 12 id. 183; Sauvinet
v. Landreaux, 1 Id. 221.

PATTERSON V.

DE LA RONDE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

and privileges, and the effect of the omission to renew the
inscription in destroying such evidence. It declares that
the inscription preserves such evidence for ten years, and
that its effect ceases if not renewed before the expiration of
that period. It is the effect of the inscription when not renewed, which ceases, not the effect of the mortgage. The
object of requiring reinscription is to dispense with the necessity of searching for evidence of mortgages more than ten
years back.*
Besides, the object of all registry laws is to impart information to parties dealing with property respecting its transfers and incumbrances, and thus to protect them from prior
secret conveyances and liens. It is to the registry, therefore,
that purchasers, or others desirous of ascertaining the condition of the property, must look, and if not otherwise informed, they can rely upon the knowledge there obtained.
But if they have notice of the existence of unregistered conveyances and mortgages, they cannot, in truth, complain
that they are, in any respect, prejudiced by the want of registry. In equity, and in this country generally at law, they
are not permitted to defeat, under such circumstances, the
rights of prior grantees or incumbrancers, but are required
to take the title or security in subordination to their rights.
The general doctrine is that knowledge of an existing conveyance or mortgage is, in legal effect, the equivalent to notice by the registry. And such is the law of Louisiana as
expounded by the decisions of her highest court. Thus, in
Robinelt v. Compton,t that court said: "The doctrine is now
well settled, that the actual knowledge by a purchaser of an
existing mortgage or title is equivalent to a notice resulting
from the registry. The formality of recording is for the
benefit of the public, and for the purpose of giving notice
to individuals. But if a party have knowledge of that of
which it is the purpose of the law to notify him, by causing
an act, instrument, or lien to be recorded, the effect is the
same, and lie is as much bound by his personal knowledge as
Shepherd v. Orleans Cotton Press Co., 2 Louisiana Annual, 113.
t lb. 854.

Dec. 1868.]

PATTERSON V.-

DE

LA IRoNDE.

Opinion of the court.

if his information was derived from an inspection of the
record."
The cases of Planters' Bank of Georgia v. Allard,* Bell v.
IHaw,t -Bachalv. Normand,T and Swan v. Moore,ยง are to the
same effect.
In the case at bar, Patterson had knowledge of the mortgage and vendor's privilege of Hfoa. They are stated in the
mortgage to himself, which he placed on record. If, therefore, the act of sale, stipulating for the special mortgage and
acknowledging the vendor's privilege, had not, in fact, been
recorded, he would have been bound by his knowledge of
their existence. He could not have urged the want of inscription to defeat Hoa's priority, and, for like reasons, he
cannot urge the want of reinscription.
Prescription of the mortgage and vendor's privilege did
not follow from the omission to reinscribe the act of sale.
From its nature, prescription could not have begun to run
until the debt secured had matured.
But there is a further answer to the objection founded on
the want of reinscription. By the terms upon which Patterson purchased the property at the marshal's sale, and the
stipulations contained in the marshal's deed accepted by him
and placed on record, he assumed- to pay the amount due
on Hoa's'7iortgage. He cannot now avoid compliance with
his contract, in this respect, on the ground that Hoa's mortgage had, in fact, at the time, lost its priority by not being
reinscribed before the expiration of ten years from its first
inscription.j
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

t Ib. 243.
14 Louisiana Annual, 833.
+ 6 Robinson, 88.
11See Parker v. Walden, 6 Martin, N. S., 713; and Noble v. Cooper, 7
Robinson, 44.
* 8 Martin New Series, 136.

