Dec. 1869.]

MORRIS'S COTTON.
Syllabus.

for suits against the associations, there is none for suits by
I
them, in any court.*
The 59th section directs "that all suits and proceedings
arising out of the provisions of this act, in which the United
States or its officers or agents shall be parties, shall be conducted by the district attorneys of the several districts, under
the direction and supervision of the solicitor of the treasury."
Considering this section in connection with the succeeding
section, the implication is clear that receivers also may sue
in the courts of the United States by virtue of the act, without reference to the locality of their personal citizenship.t
The bill in the case before us contains no averment of
any action by the comptroller touching the personal liability
of the stockholders. The demurrer of the defendants was
therefore properly sustained, and the decree of the Circuit
Court is
AFPIRMED.

MORRIS'S COTTON.
1. Where a seizure of property on land is made under the acts of July 13tb,
1861, or of August 6th, 1861, or July 17th, 1862, passed in suppression of
the rebellion, the claimants are entitled to trial by jury, though the suit
be in form a libel of information; and the suit can be removed into this
court by writ of error alone. Union Insurance Company v. United States
(6 Wallace, 765), and Armstrong's Foundry (lb. 769), affirmed.
2. This court will, however, assume jurisdiction on appeal for the purpose
of reversing a decree rendered by an inferior court not having jurisdiction to proceed in the way in which it has proceeded, and of vacating any unwarranted proceedings of it which stand in the way of a new
trial there in a case where, in the judgment of this court, a new trial
ought to be granted. And it will in such cases either reverse the judgment or decree, and direct the proceedings to be dismissed, or remand
the cause, with directions to allow the pleadings to be amended, and to
grant a new trial, according to law. And if the subject in controversy
be a fund lately in the registry of the court, but which has been distributed, so that a new trial would be useless unless the fund was restored
to the registry where it was before the decree of distribution was exe* Theriat v. Hart, 2 Hill, 381, note.

t

United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 61.

508

MORRIS'S COTTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
cuted, it will direct that a writ of restitution issue to the proper parties
to restore the fund to the registry.

from the District Court for the Middle District
of Alabama.
Three acts of Congress, one of July 13th, 1861, another
of August 6th, 1861, and a third of July 17th, 1862, passed
during the late rebellion, authorized the seizure and confiscation in the District or Circuit Courts of property used for
insurrectionary purposes, and to a certain extent prescribed
the mode of proceeding.
Under one of these acts it was decided, in the Union Insurance Company v. United States and in Armstrong's Foundry,*
that while proceedings for the condemnation of property or
laud might be shaped in the form and modes analogous to
those used in admiralty, yet that issues of fact must, on the
demand of either party, be tried by jury; and that while,
where a proceeding under that act to enforce the forfeiture
of real estate had been carried on in conformity with the
practice of courts of admiralty, this court would take jurisdiction of the decree on appeal, yet that it would do so only
for the purpose of reversing the decree and directing a new
trial, with proceedings conformed in respect to trial by jury
and exceptions to evidence to the course of proceeding by
information on the common law side of the court in cases
of seizure upon lands.
The three acts above mentioned being in force, and in an
action purporting to be in conformity to them, the United
States filed an information in rem against certain cotton
(Morris claimant) alleged to have been seized on land and
forfeited to the United States under the statutes above referred to. The information was tried in the District Court
as a suit in admiralty. The claimant prayed for a jury, but
his prayer was denied. A decree of forfeiture having passed
against the cotton, the case was brought by the claimant
before this court from the District Court by appeal, and not
by writ of error.
APPEAL

* 6 Wallace, 759 and 766.

Dec. 1869.]

MORRIS'S

COTTON.

Statement of details in the opinion.

Mr. P. Phillips, for the appellant (a brief of Mr. Ohilton
being filed),.relying on certain testimony not given in the
preceding statement to show that the seizure (if indeed any
had been made, a fact which he denied) was wholly void,
contended, on the authority of Morris J- Johnson v. United
States,* that a valid and subsisting seizure, at the time of
filing the information, was indispensable to give this courtjurisdiction; and further, on the authority of the two cases
mentioned above, in the statement of the case, that the
refusal of a trial by jury was erroneous. He inferred accordingly that, ad in the case of Morris . Johnson v. United
States, this court would dismiss the proceeding and. order
restitution.
Mr. Hoar, Attorney- General, and Mr. Field,Assistant Attorney-General, contra, contended that no question of merits
arose; and that if this court could do anything more than
dismiss the appeal, it could only order the decree to be reversed as irregular, the pleadings reformed, and a new trial
had according to the course of the common law; that this
was what was in fact decided in the Union Insurance Company v. United States, and in the case of Armstrong's Foundry,
exactly like which the present case plainly was; that it could
not now be known what the issuei would be wlhen the pleadings were reformed; that Morris & Johnson v. United States,t
relied on to show that the proceeding should be dismissed
and the property restored, differed from this one; that it
was a suit of a species not authorized by the statutes, and
not a suit in which a cause of action was defectively set
forth, or one in which the trial was irregular and not according to law.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD gave the details of the case, and
delivered the opinion of the court.
Forfeiture of the property seized in this case is claimed
in the libel of information, as amended, upon several distinct grounds, of which the following are the most material:
*7 Wallace, 578.

t

b.

MORRIS'S

COTTON.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of details in the opinion.

1. Because the owner purchased the cotton of an inhabitant of a State or district in insurrection, as lawfully declared by the President in his proclamation to that effect,
and in violation of the provision which prohibited "all commercial intercourse between such States or districts" so long
as such hostilities should continue.*
2. Because the property was owned by a person who knowingly used or employed, or consented to the use or employment of the same, in aiding, abetting, or promoting said
insurrection and resistance to the laws.t
3. Because the owner of the property, being engaged in
armed rebellion against the United States, or in aiding or
abetting such rebellion, at the time when the President
issued his proclamation upon the subject, did not, within
sixty days thereafter, cease to aid, countenance, and abet
such rebellion, and return to his allegiance.1
Process of monition issued, and the marshal, on the eleventh of May, 1866, seized one hundred and fifty-four bales
of cotton, as appears by his return. Appearance was entered by the claimant on the ninth of June following, as the
agent of the bank, and he alleges in behalf of the bank that
none of the material allegations of the libel of information
are true. On the contrary, he alleges that the cotton was
purchased by the bank, and was held by their agent as their
property until the same was attached by a creditor of the
bank, and that the bank had ample authority to transport
the funds with which the cotton was purchased into that
district, and he utterly denies that the purchase was made
in violation of any act of Congress, or of any commercial
regulations of the United States. Many other defences are
set up in the answer, but in the view taken of the case, it is
not important to enter further into those details.
Testimony was taken in the case, and, on the twentieth
of December, 1866, a decree was entered in the District
Court that the cotton seized be forfeited to the United States
for the value thereof, estimated at $25,069.70, together with
* 12 Stat. at Large, 257.

t 1b. 319.

I 1b. 591.

Dec. 1869.]

MORRIS'S COTTON.

Opinion of the court.

costs, against the stipulators and claimants.

Dissatisfied

with the decree, the claimants appealed to this court.
By the findings of the court it appears-(1.) That the
cotton was grown on a plantation in the State of Alabama,
and that it was purchased by the agent of the Bank of
Louisiana during the period when both of those States were
in rebellion against the United States. (2.) That the agent
of the bank, in going from Louisiana to Alabama, passed
through our military lines, and that he purchased the cotton
in the latter State for the bank, and with the funds which
he transported through our military lines. (3.) That neither
the agent nor the bank had any license or permit from the
Presiden't to trade or hold any commercial intercourse in that
State or district, and that his acts in trading for, and making
the purchase of, the cotton were contrary to the act of Congress prohibiting all such trade and commercial intercourse.
None of these matters, however, can be re-examined in
this court, as the District Court- had no jurisdiction of the
cause in admiralty to render any decree upon the merits.
Where the seizure is made on navigable waters, within the
ninth section of the Judiciary Act, the case belongs to the
instance side of the District Court; but where the seizure
was made on iand, the suit, though in the form of a libel
of information, is an action at common law, and the claimants are entitled to trial by jury.*
Seizures, when made on waters which are navigable from
the sea by vessels of ten or more tons burden, are exclusively cognizable in the District Courts, subject to appeal,
as provided by law; but all seizures on land or on waters
not navigable, and all suits instituted to recover penalties
and forfeitures incurred, except for seizures on navigable
waters, must be prosecuted as other common-law suits, and
can only be removed into this court by writ of error.t
Want of jurisdiction in the court below, however, does
not prevent this couit from assuming jurisdiction on appeal
* Confiscation Cases, 7 Wallace, 462; Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Id. 769.

t Insurance Co. v. United States, 6 Wallace, 765; United States v. Hart,
Ib. 772.

MORRIS'S COTTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

for the purpose of reversing the decree rendered by that
court, and of vacating any unwarranted proceedings of that
court, which necessarily stand in the way of a new trial
there, in a case where, in the judgment of this court, a new
trial ought to be granted. Where the court below has no
jurisdiction of the case, in any form of proceeding, the
course of this court is to direct the cause to be dismissed, if
the judgment or decree was for the defendant or claimant,
but if the judgment or decree was for the plaintiff or libellant, the court here will reverse the judgment or decree, and
remand the cause, with directions to the court below to dismiss the proceeding.
Unless the practice were as explained, great injustice would
be done in all cases where the judgment or decree was in
favor of the party who instituted the suit, as he would obtain the full benefit of a judgment or decree, rendered by
a court in his favor, which had no jurisdiction to hear and
determine the controversy. Hence, ths court will, in all
such cases, reverse the judgment or decree, and direct the
proceedings to be dismissed, or remand the cause, with directions to allow the pleadings to be amended, and to grant a
new trial, according to law. But the fund in this case, having been distributed, a new trial would be useless, unless the
fund is restored to the registry of the court, where it was
deposited before the decree of distribution was executed.
Although the District Court has no jurisdiction in such a
case, still, this court has full jurisdiction on appeal to reverse
the action of that court, and to dismiss the proceedings; or,
in a case where a new trial is required, to remand the cause,
and give directions to that effect, and also, to direct that a
writ of restitution issue to the proper parties, to cause the
fund to be restored to the registry of the court, from which
it was erroneously withdrawn.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded, with directions
to allow the pleadings to be amended, and to grant a new
trial, and issue a writ of restitution,
IN

CONFOR24ITY TO THE OPINION.OF THE COURT.

