Dec. 1869.]

HEPBURN V. GRISWOLD.
Syllabus.

is an inquiry which lies beyond the sphere of our powers
and duties. If an action of covenant or ejectment had been
brought, and it had been held that the constitution of Missouri affected the right of recovery, the question would perhaps have presented a different aspect. But no such case
is before us, and we have not had occasion to consider the
subject. The right of a State legislature to pass retroactive
laws, where there is no inhibition in the constitution of the
State, provided they do not impair the obligation of a contract, and are not ex post facto in their character, is too well
settled to admit of doubt.* We find no error in the record
of which we can take cognizance.
ZD
JUDGMENT AFFIIRMED.

HEPBURN

v.

GRISWOLD.

1. Construed by the plain import of their terms and the manifest intent of
the legislature, the statutes of 1862 and 1863, which make United States
notes a legal tender in payment of debts, public and private, apply to
debts contracted before as well as to debts contracted after enactment.
2. The cases of Lane County v. Oregon, Bronson v. 1?odes, and Butler v. Horwitz (7 Wallace 71, 229, and 258), in which it was held that, upon a
sound construction of those statutes, neither taxes imposed by State
legislation nor dues upon contracts for the payment or delivery of coin
or bullion'are included, by legislative intent, under the description of
"debts, public and private," are approved and reaffirmed.
3. When a case arises for judicial determination, and the decision depends
on the alleged inconsistency of a legislative provision with the Constitution, it is the plain duty of the Supreme Court to compare the act
with the fundamental law, and if the former cannot, upon a fair construction, be reconciled with the latter, to give effect to the Constitution
rather than the statute.
4. There is in the Constitution no express grant of legislative power to make
any description of credit currency a legal tender in payment of debts.
5. The words "all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution"
powers expressly granted or vested have, in the Constitution, a sense
* Williamson v. Leland, 2 Peters, 627; Watson v. Mercer, 8 Id. 88;
Kearney v. Taylor, 15 Howard, 494; Sattelee v. Mathewson, 2 Peters, 380;
Society v. Pawlet, 4 Id. 480; Railroad v. Nesbit, 10 Howard, 401; Albee v.
May, 2 Paine, 74; Andrews v.Russell, 7 Blackford, 475.

HEPBURN V.

GRISWOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

6.

7.

8.

9.

equivalent to that of the words laws, not absolutely necessary indeed,
but appropriate, plainly adapted to constitutional and legitimate ends,
which are not prohibited, but consistent with the letter and spirit of the
Constitution; laws really calculated to effect objects intrusted to the
government.
Among means appropriate, plainly adapted, not inconsistent with the
spirit of the Constitution, nor prohibited by its terms, the legislature
has unrestricted choice; but no power can be derived by implication from
any express power to enact laws as means for carrying it into execution
unless such laws come within this description.
The making of notes or bills of credit a legal tender in payment of preexisting debts is not a means appropriate, plainly adapted, or really calculated to carry into efrect any express power vested in Congress, is inconsistent with the spirit of the Constitution, and is prohibited by the
Constitution.
The clause in the acts of 1862 and 1863 which makes United States notes
a legal tender in payment of all debts, public and private, is, so far as it
applies to debts contracted before the passage of those acts, unwarranted
by the Constitution.
Prior to the 25th of February, 1862, all contracts for the payment of
money, not expressly stipulating otherwise, were, in legal effect and
universal understanding, contracts for the payment of coin, and, under
the Constitution, the parties to such contracts are respectively entitled
to demand and bound to pay the sums due, according to their terms, in
coin, notwithstanding the clause in that act, and the subsequent acts of
like tenor, which make United States notes a legal tender in payment
of such debts.

ERROR to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, the case
being this:
On the 20th of June, 1860, a certain Mrs. Hepburn made
a promissory note, by which she promised to pay to Henry
Griswold on the 20th of February, 1862, eleven thousand
two hundred and fifty "dollars."
At the time when the note was made. as also at the time
when it fell due, there was, confessedly, no lawful money of
the United States, or money which could lawfully be tendered in payment of private debts, but gold and silver coin.
Five days after the day when the note by its terms fell
due, that is to say, on the 25th of February, 1862, in an exigent crisis of the nation, in which the government was engaged in putting down an armed rebellion of vast magnitude,
Congress passed an act authorizing the issue of $150,000,000

.Dec. 1869.]

e8EPBURN V. GRISWOLD.
Statement of the case.

of its own notes,* and enacted in regard to them, by one
clause in the first section of the act, as follows:

"And such notes, herein authorized, shall be receivable in payment of all taxes, internalduties, excises, debts, and demands of every
kind due to the United States, except duties on imports, and of all
claims and demands against the United States of every kind
whatsoever, except for interest upon bonds and notes, which
shall be paid in coin; and shall also be lawful money and a legal
tender in payment of all debts, public and private, within the United
States, except duties on imports and interest as aforesaid."
The note given by Mrs. Hepburn not being paid at maturity, interest accrued on it. And in March, 1864, suit having
been brought on the note in the Louisville Chancery Court,
she tendered in United States notes issued under the act
mentioned, $ 12,720, the amount of principal of the note with
the interest accrued to the date of tender, and some costs,
in satisfiction of the plaintiff's claim. The tender was refused. The notes were then tendered and paid into court;
and the chancellor, "resolving all doubts in favor of the
Congress," declared the tender good and adjudged the debt,
interest and costs to be satisfied accordingly.
The case was then taken by Griswold to the Court of
Errors of Kentucky, which reversed the chancellor's judgment, and remanded the case with instructions to enter a
contrary judgment.
From the judgment of the Court of Errors of Kentucky,
the case was brought by Mrs. Hepburn here.
The cause was first argued at the Term of December, 1867,
upon. printed briefs submitted by Mr. Preston for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Griswold contra. Subsequently, upon
the suggestion of Mr. Stanbery, then Attorney-General, as to
the great public importance of the question, the court ordered
the cause and other causes involving, incidentally, the same
question, to stand over to December Term, 1868, for reargument, with leave to the government to be heard. Accordingly, at that term the constitutionality of the provision in
* For the general form of the notes, see 7 Wallace, 26.

HEPBURN

v.

GRISWOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the act making the notes above-described a legal tender, was
elaborately argued by Mr. B. R. Curtis (counsel for the plaintiff in error, in Willard v. Tayloe), and by 171'. .Evarts, AttorneyGeneral,for the United States, in support of the provision, and by
31r. Clarkson N. Potter (of counsel for the defendant in error in
this case), against the procision.
And the constitutionality of the provision bad been argued
at different times, by other counsel, in five other cases, which
it was supposed by their counsel might depend on it, but
*four of which were decided on other grounds; to wit, in
support of the constitutionality by Mr. Carlisle, Mr. W. S.
Cox, Mr. Williams, Mr. S. S. Rogers, Mr. B. R. Curtis, Mr.
L. P. Poland, Mr. Howe, and against it by Mr. Bradley, Mfr.
Wilson, Mr. Johnson, Mr. John J. Townsend, Mr. McPherson, Mr. Wills, in Thomson v. Riggs,* in Lane County v.
Oregon,t in Bronson v. Rodes,j in Willard v. Tayloe,ยง and in
Broderick v. Magraw.II The question was therefore thoroughly argued. And it was held long under advisement.
It is deemed unnecessary here to present the arguments,
already in part presented, in some of the cases named, the
matter in the present case being fully argued on both sides,
from the bench.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented for our determination by the record
in this case is, whether or not the payee or assignee of a note,
nmade before the 25th of February, 1862, is obliged by law
to accept in payment United States notes, equal in nominal
amount to the sum due according to its terms, when tendered
by the maker or other party bound to pay it? And this requires, in the first place, a construction of that clause of the
first section of the act of Congress passed on that day, which
declares the United States notes, the issue of which was
authorized by the statute, to be a legal tender in payment
of debts. The clause has already received much consideration here, and this court has held that, upon a sound con5 Wallace, 663.
Supra, 557.

t 7 Id. 73.
11Infra, 639.

Id. 229.

'Dec. 1869.]

HEPBURN V. GRIswOLD.
Opinion of the court.

struction, neither taxes imposed by State legislation,* nor
demands upon contracts which stipulate in terms for the
payment or delivery of coin or bullion,t are included by
legislative intention under the description of debts public
and private. We are now to determine whether this description embraces debts contracted before as well as after the
date of the act.
It is an established rule for the construction of statutes,
that the terms employed by the legislature are not to receive
an interpretation which conflicts With acknowledged principles of justice and equity, if another sense, consonant with
those principles, can be given to them. But this rule cannot
prevail where the intent is clear. Except in the scarcely
supposable case where a statute sets at nought the plainest
precepts of morality and social obligation, courts must give
effect to the clearly ascertained legislative intent, if not repugnant to the fundamental law ordained in the Constitution.
Applying the rule just stated to the act under consideration, there appears to be strong reason for construing the
word debts as having reference only to debts contracted subsequent to the enactment of the law. For no one will question that the United States notes, which the act makei a legal
tender in payment, are essentially unlike in nature, and,
being irredeemable in coin, are necessarily unlike in value,
to the lawful money intended by parties to contracts for the
payment of money made before its passage. The lawful
money then in use and made a legal tender in payment,
consisted of gold and silver coin. The currency in use under
the act, and declared by its terms to be lawful money and a
legal tender, consists of notes or promises to pay impressed
upon paper, prepared in convenient form for circulation, and
protected against counterfeiting by suitable devices and penalties. The former possess intrinsic value, determined by
the weight and fineness of the metal; the latter have no
intrinsic value, but a purchasing value, determined by the
* Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wallace, 71.
t Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Id. 229; Butler v. ]orwitz, lb. 258.

IHEPBURN V.

GRISWOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

quantity in circulation, by general consent to its currency in
payments, and by opinion as to the probability of redemption
in coin. Both derive, in different degrees, a certain additional value from their adaptation to circulation by the
form and impress given to them under National authority,
and from the acts making them respectively a legal tender.
Contracts for the payment of money, made before the act
of 1862, had reference to coined money, and could not be
discharged, unless by consent, otherwise than by tender of
the sum due in coin. Every such contract, therefore, was,
in legal import, a contract for the payment of coin.
There is a well-known law of currency, that notes or
promises to pay, unless made conveniently and promptly
convertible into coin at the will of the holder, can never,
except under unusual and abnormal coriditiops, be at par in
circulation with coin. It is an equally well-known law, that
depreciation of notes must increase with the increase of the
quantity put in circulation and the diminution of confidence
in the ability or disposition to redeem. Their appreciation
follows the reversal of these conditions. No act making
them a legal tender can change materially the operation of
these laws. Their force has been strikingly exemplified in
the history of the United States notes. Beginning with a
very slight depreciation when first issued, in March, 1862,
they sank in July, 1864, to the rate of two dollars and eightyfive cents for a dollar in gold, and then rose until recently a
dollar and twenty cents in paper became equal to a gold
dollar.
Admitting, then, that prior contracts are within the intention of the act, and assuming that the act is warranted
by the Constitution, it follows that the holder of a promissory note, made before the act, for a thousand dollars, payable, as we have just seen, according to the law and according to the intent of the parties, in coin, was required, when
depreciation reached its lowest point, to accept in payment
a thousand note dollars, although with the thousand coin
dollars, due under the contract, he could have purchased on
that day two thousand eight hundred and fifty such dollars.

Dec. 1869.]

R'EPBURN

v.

GRISWOLD.

609

-Opinion of the court.

Every payment, since the passage of the act, of a note of,
earlier date, has presented similar, though less striking
features.
Now, it certainly needs no argument to prove that an act,
compelling acceptance in satisfaction of any other than stipulated payment, alters arbitrarily the terms of the contract
and impairs its obligation, and that the extent of impairment is in the proportion of the inequality of the payment
accepted under the constraint of the law to the payment due
under the contract. Nor does it need argument to prove
that the practical operation of such an act is contrary to justice and equity. It follows that no construction which attributes such practical operation to an act of Congress is to
be favored, or indeed to be admitted, if any other can be
reconciled with the manifest intent of the legislature.
What, then, is that manifest intent? Are we at liberty,
upon a fair and reasonable construction of the act, to say
that Congress meant that the word "debts" used in the act
should not include debts contracted prior to its passage ?
In the case of Bronson .v.Bodes, we thought ourselves warranted in holding that this word, as used'in the statute, does
not include obligations created by express contracts for the
payment of gold and silver, whether coined or in bullion.
This conclusion rested, however, mainly on the ternis of the
act, which not only allow, but require payments in coin by
or to the government, and may be fairly
considered, independently of considerations belonging to the law of contracts for the delivery of specified articles, as sanctioning
special private contracts for like payments; without which,
indeed, the provisions relating to government payments
could hardly have practical effect. This consideration, however, does not apply to the matter now before us. There is
nothing in the terms of the act which looks to any diffirence in its operation on different descriptions of debts payable generally in money-that is to say, in dollars and parts
of a dollar. These terms, on the contrary, in their obvious
import, include equally all debts not specially expressed to
be payable in gold or silver, whether arising under past
VOL. VIII.

39

HEPBURN V.

[Sup. Ct.

GRISWOLD.

Opinion of the court.

contracts and already due, or arising under such contracts
and to become due at a future day, or arising and becoming
due under subsequent contracts. A strict and literal construction indeed would, as suggested by Mr. Justice Story,*
in respect to the same word used in the Constitution, limit
the word "debts" to debts existing; and if this construction
cannot be accepted because the limitation sanctioned by it cannot be reconciled with the obvious scope and purpose of the
act, it is certainly conclusive against any interpretation which
will exclude existing debts from its operation. The same
conclusion results from the exception of interest on loans
and duties on imports from the effect of the legal tender
clause. This exception affords an irresistible implication
that no description of debts, whenever contracted, can be
withdrawn from the effect of the act if not included within
the terms or the reasonable intent of the exception. And
it is worthy of observation in this connection, that in all the
debates to which the act gave occasion in Congress, no suggestion was ever made that the legal tender clause did not
apply as fully to contracts made before as to contracts made
after its passage.
These considerations seem to us conclusive. We do not
think ourselves at liberty, therefore, to say that Congress
did not intend to make the notes authorized by it a legal
tender in payment of debts contracted before the passage
of the act.
We are thus brought to the question, whether Congress
has power to make notes issued under its authority a legal
tender in payment of debts, which, when contracted, were
pkyable by law in gold and silver coin.
The delicacy and importance of this question has not been
overstated in the argument. This court always approaches
the consideration of questions of this nature reluctantly; and
its coustant rule of decision has been, and is, that acts of
Congress must be regarded as constitutional, unless clearly
shown to be otherwise.
1 Story on the Constitution,

921.

:Dec. 1869.]

e

EPBURN V.

GRISWOLD.

Opinion of the court.

But the Constitution is the fundamental law of the United
States. By it the people have created a government, defined its powers, prescribed their limits, distributed them
among the different departments, and directed, in general,
the manner of their exercise. No department of the government has any other powers than those thus delegated to it
by the people. All the legislative power granted by the
Constitution belongs to Congress; but it has no legislative
power which is not thus granted. And the same observation is equally true in its application to the executive and
judicial powers granted respectively to the President and
the courts. All these powers differ in kind, but not in
source or in limitation. They all arise from the Constitution, and are limited by its terms.
It is the function of the judiciary to interpret and apply
the law to cases between parties as they arise for judgment.
It can only declare what the law is, and enforce, by proper
process, the law thus declared. But, in ascertaining the
respective rights of parties, it frequently becomes necessary
to consult the Constitution. For there can be no law inconsistent with the fundamental law. No enactment not in
pursuance of the authority conferred by it can create obligations or confer rights. For such is the express decla ration
of the Constitution itself in these words:
"The Constitution, and the laws of the United States
which shall be made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties
made, or which shall be made under the authority of the
United States, shall be the supreme law of the land; and the
judges of every State shall be bound thereby, anything in
the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding."
Not every act of Congress, then, is to be regarded as the
supreme law of the land; nor is it by every act of Congress
that the judges are bound. This character and this force
belong only to such acts as are "made in pursuanpe of the
Constitution."
When, therefore, a case arises for judicial determination,
and the decision depends on the alleged inconsistency of a

HEPBURN

v.

GRISWOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

legislative provision with the fundamental law, it is the plain
duty of the court to compare the act with the Constitution,
and if the former cannot, upon a fair construction, be reconciled with the latter, to give effect to the Constitution rather
than the statute. This seems so plain that it is impossible
to make it plainer by argument. If it be otherwise the Constitution is not the supreme law; it is neither necessary or
useful, in any case, to inquire whether or not any act of
Congress was passed in pursuance of it; and the oath which
every member of this court is required to take, that he
"will administer justice without respect to persons, and do
equal right to the poor and the rich, and faithfully perform
the duties incumbent upon him to the best of his ability and
understanding, agreeably to the Constitution and laws of
the United States," becomes an idle and unmeaning form.
The case before us is one of private right. The plaintiff
in the court below sought to recover of the defendants a
certain sum expressed on the face of a promissory note.
The defendants insisted on the right, under the act of February 25th, 1862, to acquit themselves of their obligation by
tendering in payment a sum nominally equal in United
States notes. But the note had been executed before the
passage of the act, and the plaintiff insisted on his right
under the Constitution to be paid the amount due in gold
and silver. And it has not been, and cannot be, denied that
the plaintiff was entitled to judgment according to his claim,
unless bound by a constitutional law to accept the notes as
coin.
Thus two questions were directly presented: Were the
defendants relieved by the act from the obligation assumed
in the contract? Could the plaintiff be compelled, by a
judgment of the court, to receive in payment a currency of
different nature and value from that which was in the contenplation of the parties when the contract was made?
The Court of Appeals resolved both questions in the
negative, and the defendants, in the original suit, seek the
reversal of that judgment by writ of error.

Dec. 1869.]

HEPBURN V. -GRISWOLD.

Opinion of the court.

It becomes our duty, therefore, to determine whether the
act of February 25th, 1862, so far as it makes United Stat s
notes a legal tender in payment of debts contracted prior to
its passage, is constitutional and valid or otherwise. Under
a deep sense of our obligation to perform this .duty to the
best of our ability and understanding, we shall proceed to
dispose of the case presented by the record.
We have already said, and it is generally, if not universally, conceded, that the government of the United States is
one of limited powers, and that no department possesses any
authority not granted by the Constitution.
Itis not necessary, however, in order to prove the existence of a particular authority to show a particular and express grant. The design of the Constitution was to establish
a government competent to the direction and administration
of the affairs of a great nation, and, at the same time, to marl;,
by sufficiently definite lines, the sphere of its operations. To
this ehd it was needful only to make express grants of general powers, coupled with a further grant of such incidental
and auxiliary powers as might be required for the exercise of
the powers expressly granted. These powers are necessarily
extensive. It has been found, indeed, in the practical ad,
ministration of the government, that a very large part, if not
the largest part, of its functions have been performed in the
exercise of powers thus implied.
But the extension of power by implication was regarded
with some apprehension by the wise men who framed, and
by the intelligent citizens who adopted, the Constitution.
This apprehension is manifest in the terms by which the
grant of incidental and auxiliary powers is made. All
powers of this nature are included under the description of
"power to make all laws necessary and proper for carrying
into execution the powers expressly granted.to Congress or
vested by the Constitution in the government or in any of
its departments or officers."
The same apprehension is equally apparent in the tenth
article of the amendments, which declares that "the powers
not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor

HEPBURN

v.

GRISWOLD.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States or
the people."
We do not mean to say that either of these constitutional
provisions is to be taken as restricting any exercise of power
fhirly warranted by legitimate derivation from one of the
enumerated or express powers. The first was undoubtedly
introduced to exclude all doubt in respect to the existence
of implied powers; while the words "necessary and proper"
were intended to have a "sense," to use the words of Mr.
Justice Story, "at once admonitory and directory," and to
require that the means used in the execution of an express
power " should be bond fide, appropriate to the end."* The
second provision was intended to have a like admonitory
and directory sense, and to restrain the limited government
established under the Constitution from the exercise of
powers not clearly delegated or derived by just inference
from powers so delegated.
It has not been maintained in argument, nor, indeed,
would any one, however slightly conversant with constitutional law, think of maintaining that there is in the Constitution any express grant of legislative power to make any
description of credit currency a legal tender in payment
of debts.
We must inquire then whether this can be done in the
exercise of an implied power.
The rule for determining whether a legislative enactment
can be supported as an exercise of an implied power was
stated by Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for the whole
court, in the -case of .1JleCulloughv. The Stale of Maryland;t
and the statement then made has ever since been accepted
as a correct exposition of the Constitution. His words were
these: "Let the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope
of the Constitution, and all means which are appropriate,
which are plainly adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but consistent with the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional." And in another part of the
*2 Story on the Constitution, p. 142,

12,53.

t4 Wheaton, 421.

Dec. 1869.]

HEPBURN

v. GRISWOLD.

Opinion of the court.

same opinion the practical application of this rule was thus
illustrated: "Should Congress, in the execution of its
powprs, adopt measures which are prohibited by the Constitution, or should Congress, under the pretext of executing
its powers, pass laws for the accomplishment of objects not
intrusted to the government, it would be the painful duty
of this tribunal, should a case requiring such a decision
come before it, to say that such an act was not the law of
the land. But where the law is not prohibited, and is really
calculated to effect any of the objects intrusted to the government, to undertake here to inquire into the degree of its
necessity would be to pass the line which circumscribes the
judicial department, and tread on legislative grouud."*
It must be taken then as finally settled, so far as judicial
decisions can settle anything, that the words "all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution" powers expressly granted or vested, have, in the Cbnstitution, a sense
equivalent to that of the words, laws, not absolutely necessary indeed, but appropriate, plainly adapted to constitutional and legitimate ends; laws not prohibited, but consistent with the letter and spirit of the Constitution; laws
really calculated to effect objects intrusted to the government.
The question before us, then, resolves itself into this: "Is
the clause which makes United States notes a legal tender
for debts contracted prior to its enactment, a law of the description stated in the rule ?"
It is not doubted that the power to establish a standard of
value by which all other values may be measured, or, in other
words, to determine what shall be lawful money and a legal
tender, is in its nature, and of necessity, a governmental
power. It is in all countries exercised by the government.
In the United States, so far as it relates to the precious metals,
it is vested in Congress by the grant of the power to coin
money. But can a power to impart these qualities to notes,
or promises to pay money, when offered in discharge of pre* 4 Wheaton, 423.

HEPBURN V. GRISWOLD.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

existing debts, be derived from the coinage power, or from
any other power expressly given?
It is certainly not the same power as the power to coin
money. Nor is it in any reasonable or satisrhctory sense an
appropriate or plainly adapted means to the exercise of that
power. Nor is there more reason for saying that it is implied in, or incidental to, the power to regulate the value of
coined money of the United States, or of foreign coins. This
power of regulation is a power to determine the weight, purity, form, impression, and denomination of the several coins,
and their relation to each other, and the relations of foreign
coins to the monetary unit of the United States.
Nor is the power to make notes a legal tender the same as
the power to issue notes to be used as currency. The old
Congress, under the Articles of Confederation, was clothed
by express grant with the power to emit bills of credit, which
are in fact notes for circulation as currency; and yet that
Congress was not clothed with the power to make these bills
a legal tender in payment. And this court has recently held
that the Congress, under the Constitution, possesses, as incidental to other powers, the same power as the old Congress
to emit bills or notes; but it was expressly declared at the
same time that this decision concluded nothing on the question of legal tender. Indeed, we are not aware that it has
ever been claimed that the power to issue bills or notes has
any identity with the power to make them a legal tender. On
the contrary, the whole history of the country refutes that
notion. The States have always been held to possess the
power to authorize and regulate the issue of bills for circulation by banks or individuals, subject, as has been lately determined, to the control of Congress, for the purpose of establishing and securing a National currency; and yet the States
are expressly prohibited by the Constitution from making
anything btt gold and silver coiin a legal tender. This seems
decisive on the point that the power to issue notes and the
power to make them a legal tender are not the same power,
and that they have no necessary connection with each other.
But it has been maintained in argument that the power to

Dec. 1869.]

DHEPBURN V. GRISWOLD.
Opinion of the court.

make United States notes a legal tender in payment of all
debts is a means appropriate and plainly adapted to the execution of the power to carry on war, of the power to regulate
commerce, and of the power to borrow money. If it is, and
is not prohibited, nor inconsistent with the letter or spirit of
the Constitution, then the act which makes them such legal
tender must be held to be constitutional.
Let us, then, first inquire whether it is an appropriate and
plainly adapted means for carrying on war? The affirmative
argument may be thus stated: Congress has'power to declare and provide for carrying on war; Congress has also
power to emit bills of credit, or circulating notes receivable
for government dues and payable, so far at least as parties are
willing to receive them, in dicharge of government obligations; it will facilitate the use of such notes in disbursements
to make them a legal tender in payment of existing debts;
therefore Congress may make such notes a legal tender.
It is difficult to say to what express power the authority to
make notes a legal tender in payment of pre-existing debts
may not be upheld as incidental, upon the principles of this
argument. Is there any power which does not involve the
use of money? And is there any doubt that Congress may
issue and use bills of credit as money in the execution of any
power? The power to establish post-offices and post-roads,
for example, involves the collection and disbursement of a
great revenue. Is not the power to make notes a legal tender as clearly incidental to this power as to the war power?
The answer to this question does not appear to us doubtful.
The argument, therefore, sebms to prove too much. It carries the doctrine of implied powers very far beyond any extent hitherto given to it. It asserts that whatever in any
degree promotes an end within the scope of a general power,
whether, in the correct sense of the word, appropriate or not,
may be done in the exercise of an implied power.
Can this proposition be maintained ?
It is said that this is not a question for the court deciding
a cause, but for Congress exercising the power. But the
decisive answer to this is that the admission of a legislative

HEPBURN V. GRISWOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

power to determine finally what powers have the described
relation as means to the execution of other powers plainly
granted, and, then, to exercise absolutely and without liability to question, in cases involving private rights, the powers
thus determined to have that relation, would completely
change the nature of American government. It would convert the government, which the people ordained as a government of limited powers, into a government of unlimited
powers. It would confuse the boundaries which separate
the executive and judicial from the legislative authority. It
would obliterate every criterion which this court, speaking
through the venerated Chief Justice in the case already cited,
established for the determination of the question whether
legislative acts are constitutional or unconstitutional.
Undoubtedly among means appropriate, plainjy adapted,
really calculated, the legislature has unrestricted choice. But
there can be no implied power to use means not within the
description.
Now, then, let it be considered what has actually been
done in the provision of a National currency. In July and
August, 1861, and February, 1862, the issue of sixty millions
of dollars in United States notes, payable on demand, was
authorized.* They were made receivable in payments, but
were not declared a legal tender until March, 1862,t when
the amount in circulation had been greatly reduced by receipt and cancellation. In 1862 and 18631 the issue of fbur
hundred and fifty millions in United States notes, payable
not on demand, but, in efrect, at the convenience of the
government, was authorized, sdbject to certain restrictions
as to fifty millions. These notes were made receivable for
the bonds of the National loans, for all debts due to or from
the United States, except duties on imports and interest on
the public debt, and were also declared a legal tender. In
March, 1863,ยง the issue of notes for parts of a dollar was
authorized to an amount not exceeding fifty millions of dollars. These notes were not declared a legal tender, but were
12 Stat. at Large, 259, 313, and 338.

1lb. 346, 532, and 709.

t 1b. 370.

lb. 711.

Dec. 1869.]

HEPBURN V. GRISWOLD.

Opinion of the court.

made redeemable under regulations to be prescribed by the
Secretary of the Treasury. In February, 1863,* the issue
of three hundred millions of dollars in notes of the National
banking associations was authorized. These notes were
made receivable to the same extent as United States notes,
and provision was made to secure their redemption, but they
were not made a legal tender.
The several descriptions of notes have since constituted,
under the various acts of Congress, the common currency of
the United States. The notes which were not declared a
legal tender have circulated with those which were so declared without unfavorable discrimination.
It may be added as a part of the history that other issues,
bearing interest at various rates, were authorized and made
a legal tender, except in redemption of bank notes, for face
amount exclusive of interest. Such were the one and two
years five per cent. notes and three years compound interest
notes.t These notes never entered largely or'permanently
into the circulation; and there is no reason to think that their
utility was increased or diminished by the act which declared
them a legal tender for face amount. They need not be further
considered here. They serve only to illustrate the tendency
remarked by all who have investigated the subject of paper
money; to increase the volume of irredeemable issues, and
to extend indefinitely the application of the quality of legal
tender. That it was carried no farther during the recent
civil war, and has been carried no farther since, is due to circumstances, the consideration of which does not belong to
this discussion.
We recur, then, to the question under consideration. No
one questions the general constitutionality, and not very
many, perhaps, the general expediency of the legislation by
which a note currency has been authorized in recent years.
The doubt is as to the power to declare a particular class of
these notes to be a legal tender in payment of pre-existing
debts.
* 12 Stat. at Large, 669.

t 13 Id. 218, 425.

HEPBURN V.

GRIsWOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The only ground upon which this power is asserted is,
not that the issue of notes was an appropriate and plainly
adapted means for carrying on the war, for that is admitted;
but that the making of them a legal tender to the extent
mentioned was such a means.
Now, we have seen that of all the notes issued those not
declared a legal tender at all constituted a very large proportion, and that they circulated freely and without discount.
It may be said that their equality in circulation and credit
was due to the provision made by law for the redemption
of this paper in legal tender notes. But this provision, if
at all useful in this respect, was of trifling importance compared with that which made them receivable for government
dues. All modern history testifies that, in time of war especially, when taxes are augmented, large loans negotiated,
and heavy disbursements made, notes issued by the authority of the government, and made receivable for dues of the
government, always obtain at first a ready circulation; and
even when not redeemable in coin, on demand, are as little
and usually less subject to depreciation than any other description of notes, for the redemption of which no better
provision is made. And the history of the legislation under
consideration is, that it was upon this quality of receivability,
and not upon the quality of legal tender, that reliance for
circulation was originally placed; for the receivability clause
appears to have been in the original draft of the bill, while
the legal tender clause seems to have been introduced at a
later stage of its progress.
These facts certainly are not without weight as evidence
that all the useful purposes of the notes would have been
fully answered without making them a legal tender for preexisting debts. It is denied, indeed, by eminent writers, that
the quality of legal tender adds anything at all to the credit
or usefulness of government notes. They insist, on the
contrary, that it impairs both. However this may be, it
must be remembered that it is as a means to an end to be
attained by the action of the government, that the implied

Dec.1869.]

EP3URN v.
Dc6]

GRISWOLD.

Opinion of the court.

power of making notes a legal tender in all payments is
claimed under the Constitution. Now, how far is the government helped by this means? Certainly it cannot obtain
new supplies or services at a cheaper rate, for no one will
take the notes for more than they are worth at the time of
the new contract. The price will rise in the ratio of the
depreciation, and this is all that could happen if the notes
were not made a legal tender. IBut it may be said that the
depreciation will be less to him who takes them from the
government, if the government will pledge to him its power
to compel his creditors to receive them at par in payments.
This is, as we have seen, by no means certain. If the quantity issued be excessive, and redemption uncertain and remote, great depreciation will take place; if, on the other
band, the quantity is only adequate to the demands of business, and confidence in early redemption is strong, the notes
will circulate freely, whether made a legal tender or not.
But if it be admitted thAt some increase of availability is
derived from making the notes a legal tender under new
contracts, it by no means follows that any appreciable advantage is gained by compelling creditors to receive them in
satisfaction of pre-existing debts. And there is abundant evidence, that whatever benefit is possible from that compulsion
to some individuals or to the government, is ir more than

outweighed by the losses of property, the derangement of
business, the fluctuations of currency and values, and the
increase of prices to the people and the government, and the
long train of evils which flow from the use of irredeemable
paper money. It is true that these evils are not to be attributed altogether to making it a legal tender. But this
increases these evils. It certainly widens their extent and
protracts their continuance.
We are unable to persuade ourselves that an expedient of
this sort is an appropriate and plainly adapted means for the
execution of the power to declare and carry on war. I" it
adds nothing to the utility of the notes, it cannot be upheld
as a means to the end in furtherance of which the notes are
issued. Nor can it, in our judgment, be upheld as such, if,

622

HEPBURN v. GRISWOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

while facilitating in some degree the circulation of the notes,
it debases and injures the currency in its proper use to a
much greater degree. And these considerations seem to us
equally applicable to the powers to regulate commerce and
to borrow money. Both powers necessarily involve the use
of money by the people and by the government, but neither,
as we think, carries with it as an appropriate and plainly
adapted means to its exercise, the power of making circulating notes a legal tender in payment of pre-existing debts.
But there is another view, which seems to us decisive, to
whatever express power the supposed implied power in
question may be referred. In the rule stated by Chief Justice Marshall, the words appropriate, plainly adapted, really
calculated, are qualified by the limitation that the means
must be not prohibited, but consistent with the letter and
spirit of the Constitution. N~othing so prohibited or inconsistent can be regarded as appropriate, or plainly adapted,
or really calculated means to any end.
Let us inquire, then, first, whether making bills of credit
a legal tender, to the extent indicated, is consistent with the
spirit of the Constitution.
Among the great cardinal principles of that instrument, no
one is more conspicuous or more venerable than the establishment of justice. And what was intended by the establishment of justice in the minds of the people who ordained it
is, happily, not a matter of disputation. It is not left to inference or conjecture, especially in its relations to contracts.
When the Constitution was undergoing discussion in the
Convention, the Congress of the Confederation was engaged
in the consideration of the ordinance for the government of
the territory northwest of the Ohio, the only territory subject
at that time to its regulation and control. By this ordinance
certain fundamental articles of compact were established between the original States and the people and States of the
territory, for the purpose, to use its own language, "of extending the fundamental principles of civil and religious liberty, whereon these republics" (the States united under the
Conlflderation), "their laws, and constitutions are erected."

Dec. 1869.]

18EPBURN

V. GRISWOLD.

Opinion of the court.

Among these fundamental principles was this: "And in the
just preservation of rights and property it is understood
and declared that no law ought ever to be made, or have
force in the said territory, that shall in any manner whatever
interfere with or affect private contracts or engagements
bond~fide and without fraud previously formed."
The same principle found more condensed expression in
that most valuable provision of the Constitution of the
United States, ever recognized as an efficient safeguard
against injustice, that "no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts."'
It is true that this prohibition is not applied in terms to
the government of the United States. Congress has express
power to enact bankrupt laws, and we do not say that a law
made in the execution of any other express power, which,
incidentally only, impairs the obligation of a contract, can
be held to be unconstitutional for that reason.
But we think it clear that those who framed and those
who adopted the Constitution, intended that the spirit of
this prohibition should pervade the entire body of legislation, and that the justice which the Constitution was ordained to establish was not thought by them to be compatible with legislation of an opposite tendency. In other words,
we cannot doubt that a law not made in pursuance of an
express power, which necessarily and in its direct operation
impairs the obligation of contracts, is inconsistent with the
spirit of the Constitution.
Another provision, found in the fifth amendment, must
be considered in this connection. We refer to that which
ordains that private property shall not be taken for public
use without compensation. This provision is kindred in
spirit to that which forbids legislation impairifng the obligation of contracts; but, unlike that, it is addressed directly
and solely to the National government. It does not, in terms,
prohibit legislation which appropriates the private property
of one class of citizens to the use of another class; but if
such property cannot be taken for the benefit of all, without
compensation, it is difficult to understand how it can be so

HEPBURN

V. GRISWOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

taken for the benefit of a part without violating the spirit
of the prohibition.
But there is another provision in the same amendment,
which, in our judgment, cannot have its full and intended
effect unless construed as a direct prohibition of the legislation which we have been considering. It is that which
declares that "no person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law."
It is not doubted that all the provisions of this amendment operate directly in limitation and restraint of the
legislative powers conferred by the Constitution. The only
question is, whether an act which compels all those who
hold contracts for the payment of gold and silver money to
accept in payment a currency of inferior value deprives such
persons of property without dtie process of law.
It is quite clear, that whatever may be the operation of
such an act, due process of law makes no part of it. Does
it deprive any person of property ? A very large proportion
of the property of civilized men exists in the form of contracts. These contracts almost invariably stipulate for the
payment of money. And we have already seen that contracts in the United States, prior to the act under consideration, for the payment of money, were contracts to pay the
sums specified in gold and silver coin. And it is beyond
doubt that the holders of these contracts were and are as
fully entitled to the protection of this constitutional provision as the holders of any other description of property.
But it may be said that the holders of no description of
property are protected by it from legislation which incidentally only impairs its value. And it may be urged in
illustration that the holders of stock in a turnpike, a bridge,
or a manufacturing corporation, or an insurance company,
or a bank, cannot invoke its protection against legislation
which, by authorizing similar works or corporations, reduces
its price in the market. But all this does not appear to meet
the real difficulty. In the cases mentioned the injury is
purely contingent and incidental. In the case we are considering it is direct and inevitable.

Dec. 1869.]

D EPBURN V. GRISWOLD.
Opinion of the court.

If in the cases mentioned the holders of the stock were
required by law to convey it on demand to any one who
should think fit to offer half its value for it, the analogy
would be more obvious. No one probably could be found
to contend that an act enforcing the acceptance of fifty or
seventy-five acres of land in satisfaction of a contract to convey a hundred would not come within the prohibition against
arbitrary privation of property.
We confess ourselves unable to perceive any solid distinction between such an act and an act compelling all citizens
to accept, in satisfaction of all contracts for money, half or
three-quarters or any other proportion less than the whole
of the value actually due, according to their terms. It is
difficult to conceive what act would take private property
without process of law if such an act would not.
We are obliged 'to conclude that an act making mere
promises to pay dollars a legal tender ifi payment of debts
previously contracted, is not a means appropriate, plainly
adapted, really calculated to carry into effect any express
power vested in Congress; that such an act is inconsistent
with the spirit of the Constitution; and that it is prohibited
by the Constitution.
It is not surprising that amid the tumult of the late civil
war, and under the influence of apprehensions for the safety
of the Republic almost universal, different views, never before
entertained by American statesmen or jurists, were adopted
by many. The time was not favorable to considerate reflection upon the constitutional limits of legislative or executive
authority. If power was assumed from patriotic motives,
the assumption found ready justification in patriotic hearts.
Many who doubted yielded their doubts; many who did not
doubt were silent. Some who were strongly averse to making
government notes a legal tender felt themselves constrained
to acquiesce in the views of the advocates of the measure.
Not a few who then insisted upon its necessity, or acquiesced
hi that view, have, since the return of peace, and under the
influence of the calmer time, reconsidered their conclusions,
VOL. VIII.

40

IIEPBURN V. GRISWOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

and now concur in those which we have just announced.
These conclusions seem to us to be fully sanctioned by the
letter and spirit of the Constitution.
We are obliged, therefore, to hold that the defendant in
error was not bound to receive from the plaintifls the currency tendered to him in payment of their note, made before
the passage of the act of February 25th, 1862. It follows
that the judgment of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky must
be affirmed.
It is proper to say that Mr. Justice Grier, who was a member of the court when this cause was decided in conference,*
and when this opinion was directed to be read,t stated his
judgment to be that the legal tender clause, properly construed, has no application to debts contracted prior to its
enactment; but that upon the construction given to the act
by the other judges he concurred in the opinion that the
clause, so far as it makes United States notes a legal tender
for such debts, is not warranted by the Constitution.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER (with whom concurred SWAYNE
and DAVIS, JJ.), dissenting.
The provisions of the Constitution of the United States
which have direct reference to the function of legislation
may be divided into three primary classes:
1. Those which confer legislative powers on Congress.
2. Those which prohibit the exercise of legislative powers
by Congress.
3. Those which prohibit the States from exercising certain legislative powers.
The powers conferred on Congress may be subdivided
into the positive and the auxiliary, or, as they are more conmonly called, the express and the implied powers.
As instances of the former class may be mentioned the
power to borrow money, to raise and support armies, and
to coin money and regulate the value thereof.
* November 27th, 1869.

t January 29th, 1870.

Dec. :1869.]

H EPBURN

v. GRISWOLD.

1327

Opinion of Miller, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

The implied or auxiliary powers of legislation are founded
largely on that general provision which closes the enumeration of powers granted in express terms, by the declaration
that Congress shall also "have power to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution
the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this
Constitution in the government of the United States, or in
any department or officer thereof."
The question which this court is called upon to consider,
is whether the authority to make the notes of the United
States a lawful tender in payment of debts, is to be found in
Congress under either of these classes of legislative powers.
As one of the elements of this question, and in order to
negative any idea that the exercise of such a power would
be an invasion of the rights reserved to the States, it may be
as well to say at the outset, that this is among the subjects
of legislation forbidden to the States by the Constitution.
Among the unequivocal utterances of that instrument on
this subject of legal tender, is that which declares that "no
State shall coin money, emit bills of credit, or make anything
but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts;" thus
removing the whole matter from the domain of State legislation.
No such prohibition is placed upon the power of Congress
on this subject, though there are, as I have already said,
matters expressly forbidden to Congress; but neither this
of legal tender, nor of the power to emit bills of credit, or to
impair the obligation of contracts, is among them. On the
contrary, Congress is expressly authorized to coin money
and to regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coins,-and
to punish the counterfeiting of such coin and of the securities of the United States. It has been strongly argued by
many able jurists that these latter clauses, fairly construed,
confer the power to make the securities of the United States
a lawful tender in payment of debts.
While I am not able to see in them standing alone a sufficient warrant for the exercise of this power, they are not
without decided weight when we come to consider the ques-

HEPBURN V.

GRISWOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

tion of the existence of this power, as one necessary and
proper for carrying into execution other admitted powers of
the government. For they show that so far as the framers
of the Constitution did go in granting express power over
the lawful money of the country, it was confided to Congress
and forbidden to the States; and it is no unreasonable inference, that if it should be found necessary in carrying into
effect some of the powers of the government essential to its
successful operation, to make its securities perform the office
of money in the payment of debts, such legislation would be
in harmony with the power over money granted in express
terms.
It being conceded, then, that the power under consideration would not, if exercised by Congress, be an invasion of
any right reserved to the States, but one which they are forbidden to employ, and that it is not one in terms either
granted or denied to Congress, can it be sustained as a law
necessary and proper, at the time it was enacted, for carrying
into execution any of these powers that are expressly granted
either to Congress, or to the government, or to any department thereof?
From the organization of the government under the present Constitution, there have been from time to time attempts
to limit the powers granted by that instrument, by a narrow
and literal rule of construction, and these have been specially
directed to the general clause which we have cited as the
foundation of the auxiliary powers of the government. It
has been said that this clause, so far from authorizing the
use of any means which could not have been used without
it, is a restriction upon the powers necessarily implied by an
instrument so general in its language.
The doctrine is, that when an act of Congress is brought
to the test of this clause of the Constitution, its necessity
must be absolute, and its adaptation to the conceded purpose
unquestionable.
Nowhere has this principle been met with more emphatic
denial, and more satisftctory refutation, than in this court.
That eminent jurist and statesman, whose official career of

Dec. 1869.]

HEPBURN v.

GiIswOLD.

Opinion of Miller, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

over thirty years as Chief Justice commenced very soon
after the Constitution was adopted, and whose opinions have
done as much to fix its meaning as those of any man living
or dead, has given this particular clause the benefit of his
fullest consideration.
In the case of The United States v. _isher,* decided in 1804,
the point in issue was the priority claimed for the United
States as a creditor of a bankrupt over all other creditors.
It was argued mainly on the construction of the statutes;
but the power of Congress to pass such a law was also denied.
Chief Justice Marshall said: "It is claimed under the authority to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper to
carry into execution the powers vested by the Constitution
in the government, or in any department thereof. In construing this clause, it would be incorrect, and would produce
endless difficulties, if the opinion should be maintained, that
no law was authorized which was not indispensably necessary to give effect to a specified power. Where various
systems might be adopted for that purpose, it might be said
with respect to each that it was not necessary,,because the
end might be attained by other means. Congress must possess the choice of means, and must be empowered to use any
means which are in fact conducive to the exercise of the
power granted by the Constitution."
It was accordingly held that, under the authority to pay
the debts of theUnion, it could pass a law giving priority for
its own debts in cases of bankruptcy.
But in the memorable case of McCulloch v. The State of
JMaryland,t the most exhaustive discussion of this clause is
found in the opinion of the court by the same eminent expounder of the Constitution. That case involved, it is well
known, the right of Congress to establish the Bank of the
United States, and to authorize it to issue notes for circulation. It was conceded that the right to incorporate or create'
such a bank had no specific grant in any clause of the Constitution, still less the right to authorize it to issue notes for
*2 Cranch, 358.

f4 Wheaton, 316.

"H'EPBURN V. GRISWOLD.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Miller, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

circulation as money. But it was argued, that as a means
necessary to enable the government to collect, transfer, and
pay out its revenues, the organization of a bank with this
function was within the power of Congress. In speaking
of the true meaning of the word " necessary" in this clause
of the Constitution, he says: "Does it always import an
absolute physical necessity so strong, that one thing to which
another may be termed necessary cannot exist without it?
We think it does not. If reference be had to its use, in the
common affairs of the world, or in approved authors, we find
that it frequently imports no more than that one thing is
convenient*or useful, or essential to another. To employ
means necessary to an end, is generally understood as employing any means calculated to produce the end, and not
as being confined to those single means without which the
end would be entirely unattainable."
The word necessary admits, he says, of all degrees of
comparison. "A thing may be necessary, very necessary,
absolutely or indispensably necessary. . . This word, then,
like others, is used in various senses, and in its construction
the subject, the context, the intention of the person using
them are all to be taken into view. Let this be done in
the case under consideration. The subject is the execution
of those great powers on which the welfare of a nation essentially depends. It must have been the intention of those
who gave these powers to insure, as far as hunman prudence
could insure, their beneficial execution. This could not be
done by confining the choice or means to such narrow limits
as not to leave it in the power of Congress to adopt any
which might be appropriate, and which were conducive to
the end. This provision is made in a Constitution intended
to endure for ages to come, and consequently to be adapted
to various crises of human affairs. To have prescribed the
"means by which the government should in all future time
execute its powers, would have been to change entirely the
character of the instrument, and give it the properties of a
legal code. It would have been an unwise attempt to provide by immutable rules for exigencies which, if foreseen at

Dec. 1869.]

IIEPBURN

v.

GRISWOLD.

Opinion of Miller, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

all, must have been but dimly, and which can best be provided for as they occur. To have declared that the best
means shall not be used but those alone without which the
power given would be nugatory, would have been to deprive
the legislature of the capacity to avail itself of experience,
to exercise its reason, and to accommodate its legislation to
circumstances."
I have cited at unusual length these remarks of Chief
Justice Marshall, because though made half a century ago,
their applicability to the circumstances under which Congress called to its aid the power of making the securities of
the government a legal tender, as a means of successfully
prosecuting a war, which without such aid seemed likely to
terminate its existence, and to borrow money which could
in no other manner be borrowed, and to pay the debt of millions due to its soldiers in the field, which could by no other
means be paid, seems to be almost prophetic. If he had had
clearly before his mind the future history of his country, he
could not have better characterized a principle which would
in this very case have rendered the power to carry on war
nugatory, which would have deprived Congress of the capacity to avail itself of experience, to exercise its reason, and to
accommodate its legislation to circumstances, by the use of
the most appropriate means of supporting the government
in the crisis of its fate.
But it is said that the clause under consideration is admonitory as to the use of implied powers, and adds nothing
to what would have been authorized without it.
The idea is not new, and is probably intended for the same
which was urged in the case of Mc Calloch v. The State of aryland, namely, that instead of enlarging the powers conferred
on Congress, or providing for a more'liberal use of them,
it was designed as a restriction upon the ancillary powers
incidental to every express grant of power in general terms.
I have already cited so fully from that case, that I can only
refer to it to say that this proposition is there clearly stated
and refuted.
Does there exist, then, any power in Congress or in the

632

HEPBURN v. GRISWOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

government, by express grant, in the execution of which this
legal tender act was necessary and proper, in the sense here
defined, and under the circumstances of its passage?
The power to declare war, to suppress insurrection, to
raise and support armies, to provide and maintain a navy,
to borrow money on the credit of the United States, to pay
the debts of the Union, and to provide for the common defence and general welfare, are each and all distinctly and
specifically granted in separate clauses of the Constitution.
We were in the midst of a war which called all these
powers into exercise and taxed them severely. A war which,
if we take into account the increased capacity for destruction introduced by modern science, and the corresponding
increase of its cost, brought into operation powers of belligerency more potent and more expensive than any that the
world has ever known.
All the ordinary means of rendering efficient the several
powers of Congress above-mentioned had been employed to
their utmost capacity, and with the spirit of the rebellion
unbroken, with large armies in the field unpaid, with a current expenditure of over a million of dollars per day, the
credit of the government nearly exhausted, and the resources of taxation inadequate to pay even the interest on
the public debt, Congress was called on to devise some new
means of borrowing money on the credit of the nation; for
the result of the war was conceded by all thoughtful men to
depend on the capacity of the government to raise money
in amounts previously unknown. The banks had already
loaned their means to the treasury. They had been compelled to suspend the payment of specie on their own notes.
The coin in the country, if it could all have been placed
within the control of the Secretary of the Treasury, would
not have made a circulation sufficient to answer army purchases and army payments, to say nothing of the ordinary
business of the country. A general collapse of credit, of
payment, and of business seemed inevitable, in which faith
in the ability of the government would have been destroyed,
the rebellion would have triumphed, the States would have

Dec. 1869.]

e1EPBURN v. GRISWOLD.

Opinion of Miller, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

been left divided, and the people impoverished. The National government would have perished, and, with it, the
Constitution which we are now called upon to construe with
such nice and critical accuracy.
That the legal tender act prevented these disastrous results, and that the tender clause was necessary to prevent
them, I entertain no doubt.
It furnished instantly a means of paying the soldiers in
the field, and filled the coffers of the commissary and quartermaster. It furnished a medium for the payment of private debts, as well as public, at a time when gold was being
rapidly withdrawn from circulation, and the State bank currency was becoming worthless. It furnished the means to
the capitalist of buying the bonds of the government. It
stimulated trade, revived the drooping energies of the country, and restored confidence to the public mind.
The results which followed the adoption of this measure
are beyond dispute. No other adequate cause has ever been
assigned for the revival of government credit, the renewed
activity of trade, and the facility with which the government
borrowed, in two or three years, at reasonable rates of interest, mainly from its own citizens, double the amount of
money there was in the country, including coin, bank notes,
and the notes issued under the legal tender acts.
It is now said, however, in the calm retrospect of these
events, that treasury notes suitable for circulation as money,
bearing on their face the pledge of the United States for
their ultimate payment in coin, would, if not equally efficient, have auswered the requirement of the occasion without being made a lawful tender for debts.
,But what was needed was something more than the credit
of the government. That had been stretched to its utmost
tension, and was clearly no longer sufficient in the simple
form of borrowing money. Is there any reason to believe
that the mere change in the form of the security given would
have revived this sinking credit? On the contrary, all experience shows that a currency not redeemable promptly in
coin, but dependent on the credit of a promissor whose re-

HEPBURN V. GRISWOLD.

[SLIP.

Ct.

Opinion of Miller, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

sources are rapidly diminishing, while his liabilities are in
creasing, soon sinks to the dead level of worthless paper.
As no man would have been compelled to take it in payment of debts, as it bore no interest, as its period of redemption would have been remote and uncertain, this must have
been the inevitable fate of any extensive issue of such notes.
But when by law they were made to discharge the function
of paying debts, they bad a perpetual credit or value, equal
to the amount of all the debts, public and private, in the
country. If they were never redeemed, as they never have
been, they still paid debts at their par value, and for this
purpose were then, and always have been, eagerly sought by
the people. To say, then, that this quality of legal tender
was not necessary to their usefulness, seems to be unsupported by any sound view of the situation.
Nor can any just inference of that proposition arise from
a comparison of the legal tender notes with the bonds issued
by the government about the same time. These bonds had
a fixed period for their payment, and the Secretary of the
Treasury declared that they were payable in gold. They
bore interest, which was payable semi-annually in gold, by
express terms on their face, and the customs duties, which
by law could be paid in nothing but gold, were sacredly
pledged to the payment of this interest. They can afford
no means of determining what would have been the fate of
treasury notes designed to circulate as money, but which
bore no interest, and had no fixed time of redemption, and
by law could pay no debts, and had no fund pledged for
their payment.
The legal tender clauses of the statutes under consideration
were placed emphatically by those who enacted them, upon
their necessity to the further borrowing of money and maintaining the army and navy. It was done reluctantly and
with hesitation, and only after the necessity had been demonstrated and had become imperative. Our statesmen had
been trained in a school which looked upon such legislation
with something more than distrust. The debates of the two
houses of Congress show, that on this necessity alone could

Dec. 1869.]

Dc1P8URN v.

GRISWOLD.

Opinion of Miller, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

this clause of the bill have been carridd, and they also prove,
as I think, very clearly the existence of that necessity. The
history of that gloomy time, not to be readily forgotten by
the lover of his country, will forever remain, the full, clear,
and ample vindication of the exercise of this power by Congress, as its results have demonstrated the sagacity of those
who originated and carried through this measure.
Certainly it seems to the best judgment that I can bring
to bear upon the subject that this law was a necessity in the
most stringent sense in which that word can be used. But
if we adopt the construction of Chief Justice Marshall and
the full court over which he presided, a construction which
has never to tlis day been overruled or questioned in this
court, how can we avoid this conclusion? Can it be said
that this provision did not conduce towards the purpose of
borrowing money, of paying debts, of raising armies, of suppressing insurrection? or that it was not calculated to effect
these objects? or that it was not useful and essential to that
end? Can it be said that this was not among the choice
of means, if not the only means, which were left to Congress
to carry on this war for national existence?
Let us compare the pxresent with other cases decided in
this court.
If we can say judicially that to declare, as in the case of The
United Slates v. Fisher, that the debt which a bankrupt owes
the govern ment shall have priority of payment over all other
debts, is a necessary and proper law to enable the government
to pay its own debts, how can we say that the legal tender
clause was not necessary and proper to enable the government to borrow money to carry on the war?
The creation of the United States Bank, and especially
the power granted to it to issue notes for circulation as
money, was strenuously resisted as without constitutional
authority; but this court held that a bank of issue was necessary, in the sense of that word as used in the Constitution,
to enable the government to.collect, to transfer, and to pay
out its revenues.
It was never claimed that the government could find no

HrEPBURN V.

GRISWOLD.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of Miller, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

other means to do this. It could not then be denied, nor
has it ever been, that other means more clearly within the
competency of Congress existed, nor that a bank of deposit
might possibly have answered without a circulation. But
because that was the most fitting, useful, and efficient mode
of doing what Congress was authorized to do, it was held to
be necessary by this court. The necessity in that case is
much less apparent to me than in the adoption of the legal
tender clause.
In the Veazie Bank v. Fenno, decided at the present tern,*
this court held, after full consideration, that it was the privilege of Congress to furnish to the country the currency to
be used by it in the transaction of business, whether this
was done by means of coin, of the notes of the United States,
or of banks created by Congress. And that as a means of
making this power of Congress efficient, that body could
make this currency exclusive by taxing out of existence any
currency authorized by the States. It was said "that having,
in the exercise of undoubted constitutional power, undertaken to provide a currency for the whole country, it cannot
be questioned that Congress may constitutionally secure the
benefit of it to the people by appropriate means." Which
is the more appropriate and effectual means of making the
currency established by Congress useful, acceptable, perfect-the taxing of all other currency out of existence, or
giving to that furnished by the government the quality of
lawful tender for debts ? The latter is a means directly conducive to the end to be attained, a means which attains the
end more promptly and more perfectly than any other means
can do. The former is a remote and uncertain means in its
effect, and is liable to the serious objection that it interferes
with State legislation. If Congress can, however, under its
implied power, protect and foster this currency by such
means as destructive taxation on State bank circulation, it
seems strange, indeed, if it cannot adopt the more appropriate and the more effectual means of declaring these notes
* Supra, 533.

Dec. 1869.]

e8 EPBURN V. GRISWOLD.

Opinion of Miller, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

of its own issue, for the redemption of which its faith is
pledged, a lawful tender in payment of debts.
But it is said that the law is in conflict with the spirit, if
not the letter, of several provisions of the Constitution. Undoubtedly it is a law impairing the obligation of contracts
made before its passage. But while the Constitution forbids
the States to pass such laws it does not forbid Congress. On
the contrary, Corigress is expressly authorized to establish a
uniform system of bankruptcy, the essence of which is to
discharge debtors from the obligation of their contracts; and
in pursuance of this power Congress has three times passed
such a law, which in every instance operated on contracts
made before it was passed. Such a law is now in force, yet
its constitutionality has never been questioned. How it can
be in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution to destroy
directly the creditor's contract for the sake of the individual
debtor, but contrary to its spirit to affect remotely its value
for the safety of the nation, it is difficult to perceive.
So it is said that the provisions, that private property shall
not be taken for public use without due compensation, and
that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property,
without due course of law, are opposed to the acts under
consideration.
The argument is too vague for my perception, by which
the indirect efect of a great public measure, in depreciating
the value of lands, stocks, bonds, and other contracts, renders
such a law invalid as taking private property for public use,
or as depriving the owner of it without due course of law.
A declaration of war with a maritime power would thus
be unconstitutional, because the value of every ship abroad
is lessened twenty-five or thirty per cent., and those at home
almost as much. The abolition of the tariff on iron or sugar
would in like manner destroy the furnaces, and sink the
capital employed in the manufacture of these articles. Yet
no statesman, however warm an advocate of high tariff, has
claimed that to abolish such duties would be unconstitutional
as taking private property.
If the principle be sound, every successive issue of gov.

HEPBURN V. GRISWOLD.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

ernent bonds during the war was void, because by increasing the public debt it made those already in private hands
less valuable.
This whole argument of the injustice of the law, an injustice which if it ever existed will be repeated by now
holding it wholly void; and of its opposition to the spirit
of the Constitution, is too abstract and intangible for application to courts of justice, and is, above all, dangerous as a
ground on which to declare the legislation of Congress void
by the decision of a court. It would authorize this court to
enforce theoretical views of the genius of the government,
or vague notions of the spirit of the Constitution and of
abstract justice, by declaring void laws which did not square
with those views. It substitutes our ideas of policy for judicial construction, an undefined code of'ethics for the Constitution, and a court of justice for the National legislature.
Upon the enactment of these legal tender laws they were
received with almost universal acquiescence as valid. Payments were made in the legal tender notes for debts in
existence when the law was passed, to the amount of thousands of millions of dollars, though gold was the only lawful
tender when the debts were contracted. A great if not larger
amount is now due under contracts made since their passage,
under the belief that these legal tenders would be valid payment.
The two houses of Congress, the President who signed the
bill, and fifteen State courts, being all but one that has passed
upon the question, have expressed their belief in the constitutionality of these laws.
With all this great weight of authority, this strong concurrence of opinion among those who have passed upon the
question, before we have been called to decide it, whose duty
it was as much as it is ours to pass upon it in the light of
the Constitution, are we to reverse their action, to disturb
contracts, to declare the law void, because the necessity for
its enactment does not appear so strong to us as it did to
Congress, or so clear as it was to other courts?
Such is not my idea of the relative fhuctions of the legis.

Dec. 1869.] BRODERICK'S EXECUTOR V. MAGRAW.

639

Statement of the case.

lative and judicial departments of the government. Where
there is a choice of means the selection is with Congress,
-not the court. If the act to be considered is in any sense
essential to the execution of an acknowledged power, the
degree of that necessity is for the legislature and not for the
court to determine. In the case in Wheaton, from which I
have already quoted so fully, the court says that "where the
law is not prohibited, and is really calculated to effect any
of the objects intrusted to the government, to undertake
here to inquire into the degree of its necessity, would be to
pass the line which circumscribes the judicial department,
and to tread on legislative ground. This court disclaims all
pretences to such a power." This sound exposition of the
duties of the court in this class of cases, relieves me from
any embarrassment or hesitation in the case before me. If
I had entertained doubts of the constitutionality of the law,
I must have held the law valid until those doubts became
convictions. But as I have a very decided opinion that Congress acted within the scope of its authority, I must hold the
law to be constitutional, and dissent from the opinion of the
court.

NOTE.

At the same time with the decision of the preceding case
was decided a case in error to the Supreme Court of California, argued some time before it;-the case, namely, of
BRODERICK's EXECUTOR V. MAGRAW,
In which the principles of the preceding case of Hepburn v. Griswold
were affirmed.

The case was this:
Magraw preferred a claim by petition in the Probate Court
of the city of San Francisco, upon a note made by Broderick to
the petitioner at New York, on'the 1st of July, 1858. Broderick
dying, his executor defended the suit.

