14

DEAN V. YOUNELL'S ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
tially different in both respects; and it seems to us that no
rule of evidence properly understood requires us to refuse,
under the circumstances, to admit proof of the sense in
which the word dollar is used in the contract before us. Our
answer to the second question is, therefore, also in the
affirmative. We are clearly of opinion that such evidence
must be received in respect to such contracts, in order that
justice may be done between the parties, and that the party
entitled to be paid in these Confederate dollars can recover
their actual value at the time and place of the contract, in
lawful money of the United States.
We do not think it necessary to go into a detailed examination of the evidence in the record in order to vindicate
our answer to the third question. It is enough to say that
it has left no doubt in our minds that the note for ten thousand dollars, to enforce payment of which suit was brought
in the Circuit Court, was to be paid, by agreement of the
parties, in Confederate notes.
It follows that the decree of the Circuit Court must be
and the cause remanded, for further hearing and
decree, in conformity with this opinion.
RBEVE1S D,

NOTE.
At the same time with the foregoing case was decided
another, as to its chief point, like it; an appeal from the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Georgia. It was
the case of
DEAN V. "OUNELL'S

ADMINISTRATOR.

A bill had been filed below to set aside a deed of land for
fraud and inadequate consideration. The allegations of fraud
were founded wholly upon the circumstance, that the land was
sold for Confederate notes. The bill set up also a lien in favor
of the vendor of the complainant. The vendor, whose lien was
set up, was not made a party, nor was there any allegation of
notice to the grantor of the complainant of the alleged lien for
purchase-money; nor was there any averment that the complainant was induced to take the Confederate notes by fraudu-

:Dec. 1868.],

THE

EAGLE.

Syllabus.

lent misrepresentations of the decedent. A demurrer was interposed in the court below (Erskine, T., presiding), and being
sustained, the bill was dismissed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of this court, to
the effect, that the vendor whose lien was set up not having been
made a party, and there not being any allegations of notice to
the grantor of the complainant, of the alleged lien for purchasemoney, no ground of relief was shown by the bill as to this lien.
And that upon the principles of Thorington v. Smith, just
preceding, the fact that the land was sold for Confederate notes,
did not, in the absence of all averment that the complainant
was induced to take them by fraudulent misrepresentations of
the decedent, afford ground for the interposition of a court of
AFFIRMED.
equity. The decree was accordingly

THE EAGLE.
1. Since the decision (A. D. 1851) in the Genesee Chief (12 Howard, 443),
which decided that admiralty jurisdiction was not limited in this country to tide waters, but extended to the lakes and the waters connecting
them ; the previous act of 1845 (5 Stat. at Large, 726), entitled "An
act extending the jurisdiction of the District Courts to certain cases upon
the lakes and navigable waters connecting the same," and which went
on the assumption (declared in the Genesee Chief to be a false one) that
the jurisdiction of the admiralty was limited to tide waters, has become
inoperative and ineffectual, with the exception of the clause which gives
to either party the right of trial by jury when requested. The District
Courts, upon whom the admiralty jurisdiction was exclusively conferred
by the Judiciary Act of 1789, can, therefore, take cognizance of all civil
causes of admiralty jurisdiction upon the lakes and waters connecting
them, the ,ame as upon the high seas, bays, and rivers navigable from
the sea.
2. The court observes also, that from the reasons given why the act of 1845
has become inoperative, the clause (italicized in the lines below of this
paragraph) in the ninth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which
confers exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty
jurisdiction upon the District Courts, "including all seizures under laws
of impost, navigation,or trade of the United States,where the seizures are
made on waters which are navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more
tons burden, within their respectivedistricts, as well as upon the high seas,"
is equally inoperative.

