Dec. 1869.]

BRADLEY V. RHINES' ADMINISTRATORS.

893

Statement of the case.

Reference is made to two cases where counsel fees were
allowed, but it is a sufficient answer to those cases to say,
that they were decided before the act of Congress, under
consideration, was passed. They do not, therefore, furnish
the rule of decision in the case before the court.
DECREE REVERSED.

BRADLEY v. RHINES' ADMINISTRATORS.
1. In a suit brought by the assignee of a chose in action in the Federal court
on the contract so assigned, it is necessary that plaintiff shall show affirmatively that such action could have been sustained if brought by the
original obligee.
2. The burden of proof in such case is on the plaintiff, when the instrument
and its assignment are offered under the plea of the general issue.

E4RROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania; the case being this:
Section eleven of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which defines
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts as regards citizenship,
after declaring that no person shall be sued in any other district than that of which he is an inhabitant, or in which he
shall be found at the service of the writ, adds :
"1Nor shall any District or Circuit Court have cognizance of
any suit to recover the contents of any promissory note or other
chose in action, in favor of an assignee, unless a suit might have
been prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents if no
assignment had been made, except in cases of foreign bills of
exchange."
With this provision in force Bradley sued the administrators of one Rhines in the court below, describing himself
in the declaration as a citizen of Kentucky, and alleging
the defendants, whom he described as administrators, to be
citizens of Pennsylvania. He declared, in a special count
on a contract of lease, and in two common counts for money
had and received by defendants' intestate to plaintiff's use,
and for money laid out and expended at his request. The

894

BRADLEY V. RHINES' ADMINISTRATORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plainitiff in error.

lease, which was set out in the declaration, was made by
Breeden & Co., described as of Elk County, Pennsylvania,
as lessors, and Andrew Hines and H-iranm Carmen, lessees,
and it was alleged that Breeden & Co. had assigned the lease
to the plaintiff.
A trial was had before a jury on the plea of the general
issue, in which the plaintiff offered in evidence the lease, its
execution and assignment being admitted by defendants.
The court refused to admit the lease in evidence, and the
plaintiff took a bill of exceptions to the ruling. As the
lease was the foundation, so to speak, of the plaintiff's
action, the plaintiff, after its rejection by the court, offered
no further evidence, and verdict and judgment went for the
defendant.
The ruling of the court just mentioned was
the error assigned.
Mr. Lucas, for the plaintiff in error:
1. Neither in point of fact nor law was this lease a chose
in action. A lease and the term created by it, so far as the
tenants are concerned, constitute a chattel real, and so far as
the landlord is concerned, they are but a part of his original
estate in the premises leased. Had a sum of money been
due from the tenants to Breeden & Co. as rent, and had
Breeden & Co. continued to be the owners of the lands
leased, and simply assigned to the plaintiff the lease as the
evidence of the debt due by the tenants fbr such rent in arrears, it would, under those circumstances, have been a case
of an assignment of a chose in action merely.
But here Breeden & Co. were, at the time of the making
of the lease, the owners of the land in fee. During the
continuance of the lease, and before the expiration of the
term, Breeden & Co. sold and conveyed the whole of the
leased premises to Bradley, the present plaintiff, in fee.
This conveyance carried with it the lease, with all its benefits, without any formal assignment of the lease.*
Wherever the right passes by operation of law, the case
Johnston v. Smith, 3 Pennsylvania, 496; Bank of Pennsylvania v.
Wise, 3 Watts, 394.

Dec. 1969.] BRADLEY V. RHINES' ADMINISTRATORS.

895

Opinion of the court.

does not fall within the exception contained in the 11th section of the Judiciary Act.*
2. It does not appear that Breeden & Co. were citizens of
Pennsylvania when the suit was brought. The presumption is
the other way; and the jurisdiction, thus presumably existing, can be defeated only by positive proof that the presumption is a false one in fact.
3. The objection to jurisdiction upon the ground of citizenship, in actions at law, can only be made by a plea in
abatement, as is decided by this court in De Sobry v. Nicholson.t It came, therefore, too late.
Xr. Wills, contra (citing on his first point various statutes
of Pennsylvania), contended that the ruling was correct,
because
1. That Hiram Carmen, the partner and survivor of the
defendant's intestate, could alone be sued by the law of the
State named.
2. That the plaintiff suing as assignee of Breeden & Co.,
who are citizens of Pennsylvania, the Circuit Court for that
district.could have no jurisdiction of the action under the
11th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The first proposition made by the counsel for the defendant in error, and by which the ruling of the court is main,tained, depends for its soundness on the construction to be
given to certain statutes of Pennsylvania, and will not be
examined by us if the ruling of the court is well founded as
to the second proposition.
There can be no doubt that the lease sued on here is a
chose in action, and the assignors are described in the instrument as residing in the same State with defendants.
Two, propositions are relied on as taking this case out of
the prohibition of the statute:
* Sere v. Pitot, 6 Cranch, 336; Mayer v. Foulkrod, 4 Washington's Circuit Court, 349.
t 3 Wallace, 420, and the cases therein cited.

BRADLEY V. RINES' ADMINISTRATORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

1. That the plaintiff having purchased the lands which
were the subject of the lease, became entitled thereby to the
benefit of the lease, and the assignment was not necessary to
enable him to maintain the action.
If he had shown, or offered to show that he had become
the owner of the land, the court would probably have permitted him to do so. But as he only offered the lease and the
assignment, the court could not admit them on the ground
of a purchase of which there was no evidence.
2. Then it is argued that although Breeden & Co. might
have been, as the lease shows, citizens of Pennsylvania when
the lease was made, this may not have been so when suit was
brought; and that, as the plaintiff was a citizen of Kentucky,
and the defendants, of Pennsylvania, this makes a primd
facie case of jurisdiction in the court, which can only be defeated by evidence that the assignors were citizens of the
same State with defendants when the suit was brought.
In
This court has decided the proposition otherwise.
Turner v. Bank of North America,* the plaintiff recovered
judgment in the Circuit Court as assignee of Biddle & Co.
The only error assigned was, that it did not appear in the
record that Biddle & Co. were citizens of a State other than
North Carolina, in which district the defendant resided, and
where he was sued; and for this cause, the judgment was
reversed. The soundness of this decision is recognized in
the cases of Mollan v. Torrancet and Bank of Utited States v.
Moss,t and we take the doctrine to be settled, that when a
party claims in the Federal courts through an assignment
of a chose in action, he must show affirmatively that the
action might have been sustained by the assignor if no assignment had been made.
The case of De Sobry v. Nicholson, relied on by plaintiffs
counsel., is not in point. There plaintiff had become possessed
of all his partner's interest in the contract sued on xtithout
assignment, and none was relied on. The partner not being
* 4 Dallas, 8.

t- 9 Wheaton, 537.

1 6 Howard, 31.

Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MOSLEY.

Statement of the case.

a necessary party, his citizenship in the same State with defendant did not defeat the jurisdiction.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. MOSLEY.

1. The declarations of a party himself, to whomsoever made, are competent
evidence, when confined strictly to such complaints, expressions, and exclamations as furnish evidence of a present eAisting pain or malady, to
prove his condition, ills, pains, and symptoms, whether arising from
sickness, or from an injury by accident or violence. If made to a
medical attendant, they are of more weight than if made to another
person.
2. So is a declaration made by a deceased person, contemporaneously or
nearly so, with a main event by whose consequence it is alleged that he
died, as to the cause of that event. Though generally the declarations
must be contemporaneous with the event, yet where there are connecting
circumstances, they may, even when made some time afterwards, form
a part of the whole res gesto.
3. 'Where the principal fact is the fact of bodily injury, the res gestee are the
statements of the cause made by the injured party almost contemporaneously with the occurrence of the injury, and those relating to the
consequences made while the latter subsisted and were in progress.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Illinois, the case being this :
The Travellers' Insurance Company of Chicago insured
the life of one Mosley for $5000, in favor of his wife.

"Within ninety days, after sufficient proof that the assured at
any time within twelve months after the date of this policy
shall have sustained personal injury, caused by any accident
within t1ie meaning of this policy and the conditions hereunto annexed, and such injuries shall oecasion death within three months
from the happening thereof."

The policy among other provisos contained this one:
", Provided always, That no claim shall be made under this
policy by the said assured, ifi respect of any injury, unless the
same shall be caused by some outward and visible means, nf which
proof satisfactory to the company can be furnished, and this in-

