Dec. 1868.]

GIBBONS V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

Whether the evidence actually proves this ratification and
adoption, we express no opinion. It is enough, as we have
seen, for the purposes of this writ of error, that it tended to
prove it.
As the learned court below submitted the case to the jury,
on the single issue of legal title to the hams in Gregg &
Hughes, and notice of that title to Drakely & Fenton, it
follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court should be
reversed, and a
VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

GIBBONS

). UNITED STATES.

1. In the Court of Claims the government is liable for refusing to receive
and pay for what it has agreed to purchase.
2. When an individual who has been absolved from such a contract, by the
refusal of the proper officer to receive the articles when tendered, afterwards consents to deliver them under a threat of the officer that he
will withhold money justly due to the plaintiff, Ife can only recover the
contract price, whatever may have been the current market value of"
the articles.
3. The government is not liable on an implied assumpsit, for the torts of its
officer committed while in its service, and apparently for its benefit.
4. To admit such liability, would involve the government in all its opera;
tions, in embarrassments, lossQs, and difficulties, subversive of the public
interest.
5. When the injury to individuals in such cases merits redress by the government, the remedy is with Congress. The statute does not confer jurisdiction on the Court of Claims.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

The case as found by that court was thus:
Gibbons entered into a contract with the United States for
the delivery of two hundred thousand bushels of oats within
thirty days from the date of the contract.
He delivered a portion of the oats, and was ready and
offered to deliver the residue within the thirty days, but was
prevented by the officers of the United State's from so doing;
+hey would not receive it, because they had not convenient
storehouses for it.

GIBBONS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sill. (Ct.

Statement of the case.

Subsequently to this refusal, the quartermaster having
charge of the contract on the part of the United States, sent
an "orderly" to Gibbons, requesting his immediate presence
with the messenger at the quartermaster's office. This was
understood by Gibbons to be an arrest. About the same
time, notice was given to him, that he must deliver the residue of the oats specified in the contract under penalty of a
purchase in open market; the difference of cost to be charged
to him. The quartermaster at this time held a large sum of
money in his hands, the price of grain before that time delivered. Gibbons remonstrated, contending that the contract
was at an end. Influenced, however, by the above-mentioned
assumption of power, and by the threats used, or by some
reason, iedid deliver the quantity of oats sufficient to make
in all the amount specified in the contract.
By this time oats had advanced in price, and the price
which Gibbons was compelled to pay in the market to get
them, exceeded the amount paid to him by the government,
as he alleged, 8j and 12 cents per bushel.
Gibbons was compelled to pay $333 demurrage on certain
vessels which were laden with a portion of the oats, and which
were detained by the government officers in receiving the
cargoes.
On final settlement with the quartermaster, he was charged
for 8000 bushels of oats purchased by the quartermaster in
open market, after the expiration of the contract, at an advanced cost of 12 cents per bushel. This money was detained from him.
On this case, the Court of Claims,-upon the petition of
Gibbons setting forth a claim for the difference, 8- and 12
cents per bushel, in the price of oats, delivered after the oxpiration of his contract, for demurrage, "for damages sustained by failure of the government to receive oats under
contract at the time of delivery, $400," and for the money
detained, but not alleging anything about duress,-thns announced its conclusions in law:
" The obligation on the part of the government under the
contract to receive the oats when they were offered, was as

:Dec. 1868.]

GIBBONS V. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the appellant.

strong as the obligation to deliver. The plaintiff was not bound
under a continuing obligation, and as he had made a reasonable
offer, which was improperly refused, that put an end to the contract, and he was released from his obligation, by the conduct of
the government. The officers who threatened him had no authority to compel him to deliver the oats, and the threats used
were superserviceable and improper. If he was so unwise as to
submit to the unauthorized menaces of the quartermaster, he
must take the consequences. . Hence, he cannot recover the
difference.in price between that named in the contract, and that
ruling in market after its expiration.
"KNor can the government withhold from the sum justly due to
the plaintiff, any difference which was-paid for oats purchased
after the expiration of the contract exceeding the price fixed
by it.
"Therefore, the plaintiff should recover the sum withheld at
the time of settlement; also the demurrage."
Judgment being entered accordingly, Gibbons, claimant
in the case, appealed to this court.
Messrs. Reverdy Johnson and A. -L. Merriman, for the appellant:
The Court of Claims correctly decide that the obligation
on the part of the government under the contract, to receive the oats when they were offered, was as strong as the
obligation to deliver; that the plaintiff was not under a continuing obligation, and as he had made a reasonable offer,
which was improperly refused, that put an end to the contract, and he was released from his obligation bythe conduct
of the government. It therefore seems to be clear, that in
case of a delivery subsequently to the termination of the
original contract, such delivery is under a new contract; and
in case no express contract is made as to price, there would
be an implied one to pay their market value at the time, unless there was an agreement to sell at the prices specified in
the agreement then at an end.
In this case, no such agreement was made. On the contrary, the plaintiff insisted that the contract was at an end,

GIBBONS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and the fact that he made the delivery of oats required under
a supposed personal arrest, and under the threat of withholding the money due to him upon oats previously delivered,
shows conclusively that there was no agreement to deliver the
oats at the prices specified in the original contract, and rebuts
any presumption of a voluntary delivery under its terms.
The court below erred, therefore, in refusing to allow to the
plaintiff, the market value of the oats so delivered, and in
treating the payment by the government of the amounts
specified in the contract before then terminated, as a full
payment.
The court should have allowed him the value of the oats
when sold and delivered, deducting therefrom, the amount
paid by the government.
ir. Hoar, Attorney- General, and Mr. Talbot, contra:
There was no error on the part of the Court of Claims,
the conclusion of law stated in the first and principal paragraph of its opinion being entirely correct.
Besides the reason there given for refusing this allowance,
is the additional reason that the facts fbund leave open to
the appellate court, the inference that the whole matter had
been voluntarily settled by a payment in full.*
Accordingly, the case should now be disposed of by a
mandate to reverse the judgment and to dismiss the petition.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts found by the Court of Claims show, that under
the original contract between the plaintiff 'and the United
States the plaintiff had delivered part of the 200,000 bushels
of oats which he had agreed to deliver and had tendered the
remainder, and that the quartermaster to whom they were
properly tendered had refused to receive them. If the plaintiff suffered any loss by that refusal, he is entitled to recover
for it in this action. But the only items of his account which
* United States v.Adams, 7 Wallace, 463.

Dec. 1868.]

GIBBONS V.

'UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

refer to this part of the transaction were allowed to him by
the court, except the claim of $400 damage for failure to
accept the oats, and there is no evidence that he lost anything by this refusal. On the contrary, it appears that oats
had risen in the market above the contract price, so that the
presumption is that he was benefited instead of injured by
the refusal of the officer to accept the oats when. offered.
But after all this had passed and the time for delivering
the oats had expired, the quartermaster in charge of the
matter demanded of the plaintiff that he should still furnish
the quantity of oats necessary, with what had been received,
to complete the 200,000 bushels at the price stipulated in
the original agreement. The plaintiff objected to this- at
first, but finally yielded and delivered the remainder of the
oats.
Not content, however, with the price fixed by the- contract, he now claims that oats had advanced in the market,
and were worth, at the time of this latter delivery,. 8% and
12 cents per bushel more than that price, and for the amount
of this difference, with some other matters,. he asks judgment.
It is very clear that but one contract was ever made in
this case, and that the plaintiff was absolved from thisby
the refusal of the quartermaster to receive the oats when
tendered. But, from whatever motive he may afterwards
have consented to renew that agreement and proceed to its
fulfilment, its terms were the same. If such pressure was
brought to bear on him as would make the renewal of the
contract void, as being obtained by duress, then there was
no contract, and the proceeding was a tort for which the officer may have been personally liable. If the plaintiff's consent was voluntary, then the contract to which he assented
was binding, and must control the case. The quartermaster
treated the contract as still in force, and his demand on the
plaintiff was made under that idea. In this he was wrong.
But the plaintiff had his option to concur in this view and
deliver, the balance of the oats, or to refuse to deliver any
more.
VOL. VIII.

18

GIBBONS V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Though the Court of Claims finds that the plaintiff, when
he consented to deliver, had gone to that officer's quarters
in company with an orderly, which he considered as an
arrest, the court does not find an arrest, nor the use of any
force against his person. Nor does the petition of the plaintiff say anything about an arrest, or force, or duress. That
he feared the officer might buy the oats in the market and
hold back the difference in price from the money due for
oats already delivered, does not invalidate the contract which
he consented to fulfil to avoid that result. ie could still
have refused, and the government would have paid him
what it owed him.
The supposition that the government will not pay its
debts, or will not do justice, is not to be indulged. Still
less can it be made the foundation for a claim of indemnity
against loss incurred by an individual by acting on such a
suggestion.
But it is not to be disguised that this case is an attempt,
under the assumption of an implied contract, to make the
government responsible for the unauthorized acts of its officer, those acts being in themselves torts. No government
has ever held itself liable to individuals for the misfeasance,
laches, or unauthorized exercise of power by its officers and
agents.
In the language of Judge Story,* "it does not undertake
to guarantee to any person the fidelity of any of the officers
or agents whom it employs, since that would involve it in all
its operations in endless embarrassments, and difficulties, and
losses, which would be subversive of the public interests."t
The creation by act of Congress of a court in which the
United States may be sued, presents a novel feature in our
jurisprudence, though the act limits such suits to claims
founded on contracts, express or implied, with certain unimportant exceptions. But in the exercise of this unaccus1 Story on Agencies, 319.
t United States v. Kirpatrick, 9 Wheaton, 720; Dox v. Postmaster-General, 1 Peters, 318; Conwell v. Voorhees, 13 Ohio, 523.

Dec.1868.]

GIBBONS V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

tomed jurisdiction, the courts are embarrassed by the necessary absence of precedent and settled principles by which
the liability of the government may be determined. In a
few adjudged cases where the United States was plaintiff,
the defendants have been permitted to assert demands of
various kinds by way of set-off, and these cases may aford
useful guidance where they are in point. The cases of
United &tatesv. Kirpatrick,* and Dbx v. The Postmaster-General,t are of this class, and establish the principle that even in
regard to matters connected with the cause of action relied
on by the United States, the government is not responsible
for the laches, however gross, of its officers.1
The language of the statutes which confer jurisdiction
upon the Court of Claims, excludes by the strongest implication demands against the government founded on torts.
The general principle which we have already stated as applicable to all governments, forbids, on a policy imposed by
necessity, that they should hold themselves liable for unauthorized wrongs inflicted by their officers on the citizen,
though occurring while engaged in the discharge of official
duties.
In the absence of adjudged cases determining how far
the government may be responsible on an implied assumpsit
for acts which, though unauthorized, may have been done
in its interest, and of which it may have received the benefit, the apparent hardships of many such cases present strong
appeals to the courts to indemnify the suffering individual
at the expense of the United States.
These reflections admonish us to be cautious that we do
not permit the decisions of this court to become authority
for the righting, in the Court of Claims, of all wrongs done
to individuals by the officers of the General Government,
though they may have been committed while serving that
government, and in the belief that it was for its interest.
In such cases, where it is proper for the nation to furnish a
9 Wheaton, 720.
t 1 Peters, 318.
Nichols v. United States, 7 Wallace, 122.
N

276

HUDSON CANAL Co. v. PENNA. COAL Co. [Sup. Ct.
Statement of the case.

remedy, Congress has wisely reserved the matter for its own
It certainly has not conferred it on the
determination.
Court of Claims.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HUDSON CANAL CO. V. PENNSYLVANIA COAL CO.
In the case of a contract drawn technically, in form, and with obvious attention to details, a covenant cannot be implied in the absence of language tending to a conclusion that the covenant sought to be set up was
intended. The fact that the non-implication of it makes the contract, in
consequence of events happening subsequently to its being made, quite
unilateral in its advantages, is not a sufficient ground to imply a covenant which would tend to balance advantages thus preponderating.

to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York. The case was this:
The Pennsylvania Coal Company, being engaged in mining coals from land in the northeast corner of Pennsylvania,
for which they wished to get means of easy transportation
to New York, and the Hudson Canal Company having a
canal whose capacity was not fully employed, and which
would afford the transportation desired, provided a railroad
could be made from the Coal Company's lands to the western
end, comparatively near them, of the canal, the two companies entered, under their corporate seals, into long and technically drawn articles of agreement, with recitals in the beginning, and each party's covenants contained in separate
parts of the instrument subsequently.
1. The recitals recited that an existing road, which brought
coal to the canal, was not sufficient to employ the full capacity of the canal.
2. That if the canal should be enlarged, as it might be,
its unemployed capacity would be still greater.
8. That it was for the interest of the canal company,
that in either event its surplus capacity should not remain
unemployed, but that it should be allowed to be used at a
reasonable rate of toll by any other company which might
ERROR

