Dec. 1868.]

MCKEE V. UNITED STATES.
. Statement of the case.

the goods at the port of disaster. The rate is to be ascertained by comparing the portion of the voyage performed
with the entire length of it.*
In the present case the goods were carried something more
than half the distance; and, upon the facts as admitted in
the record, the freight would exceed the value of the one
thousand and one hundred bushels of wheat at the port of
delivery at the time it arrived.
No balance is shown to be due to the libellant on the
wheat. The libel, therefore, was properly dismissed by the
court below.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

MCKEE V. UNITED STATES.
1. The military authorities had no power under the act of July 13th, 1861, to
license commercial intercourse between the seceding States and the rest
of the United States. The Ouachita. Cotton case (6 Wallace, 521) affirmed.
2. Such trade was not authorized in March, 1864, by regulations prescribed
by the Secretary of the Treasury in pursuance of the said act, but, on
the contrary, was at that time forbidden by the then existing regulations of the treasury.
3. Even supposing such trade to have been licensed in March, 1864, in pursuance of the act of July 13th, 1861, the license would not have authorized a purchase by a citizen of the United States from any person then
holding an office or agency under the government of the so-called Confederate States; all sales, transfers, or conveyances by such persons being made void by the act of July 17th, 1862.
APPEAL from the District Court for Southern Illinois,
condemning certain cotton claimed by John H. McKee.
The case was this:
Congress, by act of Julyl~th, 1861,t passed soon after the
outbreak of the late insurrection against the United States,
enacted that it might. be lawful for the President, by proclamation, to declare that the inhabitants of any State or
part of a State where such insurrection was existing were
"4 1 ]Kent's Commentaries, 230.

t12 Star. at :Large, 257.

164

MOKEE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in a state of such insurrection, and that "thereupon all commercial intercourse by and between the same and citizens
thereof and citizens of the rest of the United States should
cease, and be unlawful so long as such condition of hostility
should continue." The same act contained a proviso that
the President might license and permit commercial intercourse with any such part of the section so declared in a
state of insurrection as he, in his discretion, might think
most conducive to the public interest; and that such intercourse, so far as by him licensed, should be carried on in

pursuance of rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of
the Treasury.
In March, 1864, a date to be noted in the present case, the
only regulations prescribed by the secretary on the subject
forbade the trade; these prescribing that "commercial inter-

course with localities beyond the lines of military occupation by the
United Statesforces is strictly prohibited."
By section 5 of the subsequent act of July 17th, 1862,*
it was enacted:

"That to insure the speedy termination of the present rebellion, it shall be the duty of the President of the United States
to cause the seizure of all the estate and property, money,
stocks, credits, and effects of the persons hereinafter named in
this section, and to apply and use the same and the proceeds
thereof for the support of the army of the United States."
The enumeration of persons includes any person hereafter
holding an office or agency under the government of the so-called
Confederate States of America. And the section thus concludes:
"And all sales, transfers, or conveyances of any such property
shall be null and void; and it shall be a sufficient bar to any suit
brought by such person for the possession or use of such property, or any of it, to allege and prove that he is one of the per.
sons described in this section."
* 12 Stat. at Large, 590.

Dec. 1868.]

MCKEE V. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

In this state of the statutes and treasury regulations, one
A. W. McKee, a resident of the then rebel portion of Louisiana, and from October till the autumn of 1864 the general
agent of the Treasury Department to purchase and dispose
of cotton in the State of Texas, and that part of Louisiana
lying west of the Mississippi River, regions then in insurrection against the United States and within the military lines
of the Confederacy, was the owner of certain cotton, the
subject of the present appeal, and had it in a storehouse
there on the bank of the Red River.
While thus stored within the Confederate lines, it was
purchased of him there, and paid for on the 4th of March,
1864, b3 John H. McKee, a loyal citizen of the United
States, resident at New Orleans, then in possession and under
control of the government; this McKee, the purchaser, being no relative of his by blood, though an adopted son of
an uncle. There was some evidence, not satisfactory, however, tending to show that the purchaser, McKee, had a
license to trade in insurgent territory, issued by agents of
the treasury in proposed conformity with the requirements
of the act of July 18th, 1861. But, however this might have
been, it seemed to be conceded that he had permission from
the military commander of the forces of the United States
in that department to pass through the Federal lines into
the rebellious region, and bring away any property that he
might purchase there; and there was even evidence tending
to show that these authorities had actually granted him a
license to trade.
The cotton had not yet been removed by J. H{. McKee
from the storehouse in which it was at the time of the purchase, when, in twelve days after the purchase, the -region
being now overrun by the Federal army, it was seized by a
flotilla of the United States, and, in the face of protest by
the purchaser, brought to Cairo and condemned.
The propriety of this condemnation was now the question
on appeal.
.Mr. R. X. (orwine, for the appellant; Mr. .oar, AttorneyGeneral, contra.

MCKEE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is a familiar principle of public law, that unlicensed
business intercourse with an enemy during a time of war is
not permitted. Congress, therefbre, in recognition of this
principle, when it declared, on the 13th day of July, 1861,
that commercial intercourse between the seceding States and
the rest of the United States should cease and be unlawful,
after the proclamation of the President that a state of insurrection existed, authorized the President, in his discretion, to
license trade. But in so far as it was licensed, it was to be
conducted in accordance with the regulations prescribed by
the Secretary of the Treasury. The President proclaimed
the fact of insurrection, and provided for a limited commercial intercourse, and the Secretary of the Treasury fixed
the manner in which this intercourse should be carried on.
Under this act of Congress, the proclamation of the President,
and the trade regulations established in pursuance of it, can
the purchase of the property in question be protected ?
It was made on the 4th of March, 1864, while the war
was flagrant, by John H. MeKee, a citizen of New Orleans,
of A. W. McKee, a resident of Upper Louisiana, and the
general agent of the Treasury Department of the Confederate
States, to purchase and dispose of cotton in the State of
Texas, and that part of Louisiana lying west of the Mississippi
River.
Permission bad been given the claimant, by the commanding officer of the Department of the Gulf, to pass through
the United States lines into Upper Louisiana and bring away
any property that he might purchase there. But who authorized him, while there, to make the purchase? There is no
sufficient proof in the record that any treasury officer clothed
him with this authority, and it is very clear that the power
of the military extended no further than to protect him in
going into the lines of the enemy and bringing fr'om there
any property rightfully acquired. It, as is contended, and
as the evidence tends to show, the military authorities went
further and granted him also a license to trade, the answer

Dec. 1868.]

D C]KEE V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

is, that this court held in The Ouachita Cotton case, reported
in 6th Wallace, that such a license was void.
But even if McKee had obtained the express permission
of one of the treasury agents to go into the Confederate
lines and buy cotton, it would not protect him, because the
agent would have been acting outside the limits of his
authority, as the regulations of the department, in force at
the time, strictly prohibited commercial intercourse with
localities beyond the lines of military occupation by the
United States forces.
There is another view of this case, which, is decisive of it,
if the proof was ample that the claimant had a license in
conformity with treasury regulations, issued under the act
of Congress of July 13th, 1861, to trade generally within
insurgent territory, for the reason that such a license could
give him no right to buy property of"A. W. McKee, who
held an iriportant official position from the government of
the Confederate States.
Section 5 of the act of Congress of July 17th, 1862, prohibited a person occupying the position of A. W. McKee
from selling his property, and it follows, as he had no
capacity to dispose of it, that the claimant could acquire no
title to it.
All licenses to trade issued under the act of July 13th,
1861, are controlled by the provisions of the act of July
17th, 1862, and must be restricted to a permission to trade
with those persons who are not within the prohibitions of
the latter act. It is a well-settled principle of law, that in
case of the repugnancy between two statutes, the latter one
must prevail over the former. In that particular in which
the prior and the latter act cannot consistently stand together,
the latter act must be taken, pro tanto, as a modification- ir
repeal of the former.
DECREM AFFIRMED.

