MATTINGLY V.

NYE.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

given was sufficient, tends only to confirm the correctness of
the'decree of the Circuit Court, which is
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

MATTINGLY V. NYE.
1. The statute of 13 Eliz., ch. 5, which is in force in the District of Columbia, does not affect, in favor of subsequent creditors, a voluntary settlement made by a rTan, not indebted at the time, for his wife and children,
unless fraud was intended when the settlement was made. Sexton v.
Wheaton (8 Wheaton, 229; S. C. 1 American Leading Cases, 1), approved and affirmed.
2. A judgment for money due, at a certain time, against the party making
the settlement, is conclusive in respect to the parties to it. It cannot
be impeached collaterally, and it cannot be questioned upon a creditor's
bill.
APPEAL from the District of Columbia; the case being
thus:
N'ye, a man not very provident, bought a city lot of no
great value in Washington, with some money that he had,
and on the 25th June, 1857, had it conveyed in trust for his
wife and children, to one Harkness as trustee. The purchase and conveyance in trust was made, as it seems by
Harkness's own account of it, by Nye at the suggestion of
Harkness, " who, living in the neighborhood of Nye, and
having frequent opportunities of seeing the destitution and
need of the family, and the infirm and broken health of the
wife, interested himself in securing a home for herself and
children, proposed a conveyance by which the property
should be secured against the contingencies of any future
recklessness or want of care in the said Nye." On the 21st
July, 1860-that is to say a little more than three years after
this transaction-Nye obtained money of one Mattingly, a
person with whom he had had frequent money dealings, and
sometimes as it seemed at exorbitant rates (including some
dealings before the purchase), making, for the money now
got, an assignment of a certain claim, but whether in satis-

Dec. 1869.]

,

MATTINGLY V.

TNYE.

Opinion of the court.

faction or as security the assignment did not clearly show.
The money not being repaid, Mattingly sued and obtained
judgment against him on the 10th June, 1863; and execution having issued without result, he now filed a creditor's
bill againt him, his wife and children, making the trustee
also a party, to set the trust aside, and have satisfaction from
the property conveyed. The bill alleged that at the date of
the purchase and settlement Nye owed him money; but this
was denied by the answer, and, as this court considered on
an examination of the evidence, not true!
It was also asserted in Nye's answer that the judgment
given was given by default, and that nothing was due by
him to Mattingly even then.
The question was, therefore, the validity, as against a
party becoming a creditor three years afterwards, of a settlement'in favor of his family, made by a man not indebted
at the time, and made apparently without fraudulent intent
in fact; the case being complicated only by the point set up
in the answer of Nye, to wit, that the judgment on which
the creditor's bill was filed was for an unfounded claim, and
got through his own default.
The court below thought the. settlement good; and dismissing the bill, Mattingly appealed,

Messrs. Cox and Phillips,for the appellant.
Mr. Bradley, contra, relied on Sexton v. Wheaton; and note
thereto in 1 American Leading Cases, 1. He contended
also, that there being a proceeding in equity which rested
wholly on an assumption of a valid judgment, as a base, it
was competent for the defendant to show that in fact the
judgment had no validity; even if by so doing he impeached
it collaterally.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in clancery from the decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. The case as disclosed in the record is as follows: On the 10th of June,

MATTINGLY V.

NYE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

1863, the complainant recovered a judgment at law against
the defendant, J. W. Nye, for $2450, with interest from the
21st of July,.1860, until paid, and costs; aft. fa. was "ssued
and returned 'nulla bona. The defendant has no property
liable to execution. On the 25th of June, 1857, Nye bought
and paid for the property described in the bill. It was con, eyed by deed of that date to the defendant, Iarkness, in
trust for Mary Nye, the wife of J. W. Nye, and her children. The legal title is still in Harkness upon that trust.
The bill is a creditor's bill, filed to reach this property. It
alleges, in addition to the facts already stated-which are
not controverted-that a large part of the indebtedness for
which the recovery at law was had, subsisted at the time
the property was bought and conveyed, and that hence it
is liable in equity to be applied, in satisfaction of the judginent.
Nye and Harkness only answered. lHarkness denies that
there was any indebtedness by Nye to the complainant at
the time of the purchase and conveyance of the trust property. Nye alleges usury in the transactions between him
and the complainant to a very large extent; that they had
settled everything before the trust property was conveyed
to Harkness, and that he then owed the complainant nothing; that the judgment was rendered by default; that he
intended to defend, and could have done so successfully, but
that he was prevented by extreme illness.
Testimony was taken upon both sides. The court below
dismissed the bill.
The case involves several legal propositions which it is
proper here to state.
1. The statute of 13 Eliz., ch. 5, is in force in the county
of Washington, but it does not affect a conveyance like this
as to subsequent creditors, unless fraud was intended when
it was made. (Sexton v. Wlheaton, 8 Wheaton, 239; S. C. 1
American Leading Cases, 1.) The whole learning of the
law upon this subject is so fully developed in the note to
this case in the work last mentioned, that it would be a
waste of time to do more than refer to it.

Dec. 1869.]

MATTINGLY

v. NYE.

Opinion of the court.

2. Such settlements, though voluntary, are founded upon
a meritorious consideration, and will be upheld and enforced
in equity against the husband.*
3. The judgment is conclusive in respect to the parties to
it. It cannot be impeached collaterally, and it cannot be
questioned upon a creditor's bill.
If in this case there is any ground of equitable relief, it
should have been presented by a cross-bill, or other proper
proceeding had directly, to affect the judgment.t
Here the question is not as to the conclusiveness of the
judgment, but as to the indebtedness of Nye to the complainant when the property was conveyed to Harkness. The
trust deed bears date on the 23d of June, 1857. The judgment was recovered on the 10th of June, 1863, nearly six
years later. The judgment was founded upon an assignment
by Nye to the complainant of $2450 of a claim in favor of
Bargy and Stewart against the United States. Nye was the
assignee of those parties, and his assignment to the complainant is dated July 21st, 1860. This was about three
years before the date of the judgment.
But it is alleged by the complainant that the consideration of this assignment included two debts due to him from
Nye, evidenced by instruments bearing date on the 2d of
November, 1853, and amounting together to $1650. One is
an order by Nye on General McCalla to pay the complainant the sum of $1450 out of the claim of Bargy and Stewart
before-mentioned. The other is a like order for the payment of $200 out of the same claim, or out of another claim
which is mentioned, payment to be made out of the first
money which should be received on either, after reserving
$500 to meet a previous order which Nye had given. The
complainant insists that these two orders represented debts
which subsisted more than two years before the execution
of the trust deed, and which still subsist. Nye insists that
* Ellison v. Ellison, 1 Leading Cases in Equity, 199.
f Bank of Wooster v. Stevens, 1 Ohio State, 233; Marine Insurance Co.
w. Hodgson, 7 Cranch, 336; Peck v. Woodbridge, 3 Day, 30; Davol v. Davol,
13 Massachusetts, 265; Story's Equity Pleadings, 782.

MATTINGLY v.

NYE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

they were given and received in discharge of all his liabilities
to the complainant down to their date, and that the complainant took them at his own risk. Here lies the stress of
the controversy between the parties.
Nye and the complainant were both examined as witnesses.
A considerable mass of other testimony is found in the
record. It is to some extent conflicting, but we have had
no difficulty in coming to a satisfactory conclusion as to the
facts. We think they are as follows:
The complainant made advances of money to Nye from
time to time and charged him high rates of usury. Nye
evinced a strange fatuity in submitting to whatever terms
the complainant thought proper to impose. The order for
$1450 was given to the complainant for a much larger sum
than he claimed to be due; Nye testifies that it was for
double the amount. It was not doubted then that the claim
to which the order refers would be speedily sanctioned by
Congress, and paid by the government. A committee of
the House of Representatives had unanimously reported a
bill to pay it. This has occurred more than once since.
There has been at no time any adverse action; but the claim
has not yet been finally acted upon and is still pending before Congress. According to the testimony of Nye, at the
same time that he gave this order to the complainant he
gave a like order to William G. White for double the amount
of a debt due to him. The condition upon which both
orders were given was the same. It was that the creditors
should take them in discharge of their debts, and that Nye
was to be under no further personal liability touching either
the debts or the orders. He avers that they were received
by the complainant and White respectively with this agreement.
White was examined as a witness. Speaking of these
orders, he says: "That order in my favor was taken by me
in full satisfaction of my claim on Mr. Nye; I understood
from Mr. Mattingly that he received the order from Mr. .ye in
satisfaction of his claim." The complainant in his testimony
admits that he advanced but $100 for the order for $200, but

Dec. 1869.]

MATTINGLY V. NYE.
Opinion of the court.

says, the balance was "in considerationof advantages, benefits,
and favors I had done him." This order was taken like the
other, with the understanding that there was to be no personal liability on the part of the drawer. The creditor was
to look alone to the fund upon which it was drawn for payment.
These conclusions receive strong support from the fact
that on the 5th of January, 1857, the complainant addressed
a letter to S. W. McKnew, in which he stated that he had
settled with Nye, and, in effect, that Nye owed him nothing.
He complains that this letter was obtained from him by unfiir means. The testimony of McKnew shows that in this
he is mistaken.
In regard to the assignment of $2450 of the Bargy and
Stewart claim, upon which the judgment was recovered, Nye
testifies that the only consideration for it, in addition to the
pre-existing orders of $1450 and $200, was a further advance
by the complainant of $200-$100 in money and the same
amount in groceries.
The complainant says: "We had in 1860 such a settlement as we always had. He obtained further advancesone of $400, one of $200, and some smaller amounts at different times which I do not recollect." Even this would leave
a large margin of difference between the amount assigned
and the amount of the consideration. There are several
features in the complainant's testimony which impress us
unfavorably, but it is not necessary to dwell upon them.
Nor is it material to consider the facts relating to the last
assignment. We are entirely satisfied that the orders of
November 2d, 1853, were taken by the complainant upon
the terms stated by Nye and White. There was, therefore,
no indebtedness by Nye to the complainant when the trust
deed was executed to Harkness, nor subsequently, until the
assignment of July 21st, 1860, was given, if there were before
the rendition of the judgment. This is decisive of the case
before us. Harkness and Mrs. Nye were neither parties nor
privies to the judgment. Their rights, legal and equitable,
were vested and fixed by the deed. Neither Nye nor the

AVENDANO

V.

GAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

complainant could do anything subsequently to impair them.
The settlement of 1860 between those parties, and the judgment recovered upon the instrument then given, could have
no retroactive effect, so far as the rights of trustee and cestui
que trust were concerned.
The court below, we think, properly dismissed the bill,
and the decree is
AFFIRMED.

AVENDANO

v.

GAY.

1. A party in this court cannot allege as error in the court below, the admission of evidence offered by himself and objected to by the other side.
2. A statement of facts, made and filed by the judge several days after the
issue and service of the writ of error in the case, is a nullity. Generms
v. Bonnemer (7 Wallace, 564), affirmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Louisiana.
Avendano brought suit in the court below against Gay;
and, in the course of the trial, offered certain evidence, which
was objected to by the defendant, but which was admitted,
notwithstanding, by the court. The defendant excepted,
and a bill of exceptions was sealed. A verdict was given
against the plaintiffs, who brought the case here on error.
The writ of error was allowed on the 9th of July, 1867. The
citation was issued on the 10th, and served on the l1th. Oi
the 16th of July, a "statement of facts," by the judge who
heard the case, was filed, and the cause in this state was
here.
Mr. Durant,for the plaintiff in error, referring to the action
of the court below in admitting the evidence, contended,
that upon the case, as found by the court below, the judgment ought to be reversed.
Mr. Janin, contra, observing that the admission of the evidence was on the plaintiff's own offer, relied on Generes v.
Bpnnerner,* as disposing of the case; quoting the following
passage:
* 7 Wallace, 564.

