UNITED STATES V.

GILMORE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

UNITED STATES V.

GILMORE.

1. Constructions of statutes, in relation to the accounts of individuals with
the United States, made by the accounting officers of the Treasury,
especially when so long continued as to become a rule of departmental
practice, are entitled to great consideration, and will in general be

adopted by this court.
2. But when, after such a construction of a particular class of statutes has
been long continued, its application to a recent statute of the same class
is prohibited by Congress, and following the spirit of that prohibition,
the accounting officers refuse to apply the disapproved construction to a
still later statute of the same class, this court will not enforce its application.
3. The act of June 20th, 1864, increasing the pay of private soldiers in the
army, cannot be construed as having the effect of increasing the allowance to officers for servants' pay.

Tnis was an appeal from the Court of Claims, in which
court a suit was instituted by Gilmore, an ex-colonel of the
army, for a sum alleged to be due him as allowance for
servants' pay, beyond the sum actually allowed him for that
purpose by the Comptroller of the Treasury, in settlement
of his accounts; Gilmore claiming the same sum ($16) per
month for such pay, as was allowed by act of Congress of
June 20th, 1864, to private soldiers, and the Comptroller
of the Treasury considering that under acts of Congress,
regulating the matter, he was not entitled to so large a sum.
Judgment was given in favor of Gilmore by the Court of
Claims, and the United States appealed.
The sum in controversy, in the particular case, was insignificant, but the principle involved extended to numerous
claims and large amounts.
Mr. Chipman, for the appellant; 17r. -Dickey,Assistant Attorney- General, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
It was for many years the practice in the army to detail
enlisted men as personal servants of officers, and the practice
had the sanction of law.

.Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES

381

V. GILMORE.

Ppinion of the court.

In 1812, with a view undoubtedly to the discouragement
of this practice, it was provided by the act of July 6th,* that
"officers who shall not take waiters from the line of the
army shall receive the pay, clothing, and subsistence allowed
to a private soldier, for as many waiters as they may actually
keep, not exceeding the number allowed by existing regulations."
In 1816, the practice was absolutely prohibited except to
company officers, and it was again provided, by the act of
April 24th,t almost in the terms of the act of 1812, that "all
officers be allowed for each private servant actually kept in
service, not exceeding the number authorized by existing
regulations, the pay, rations, and clothing of a private soldier,
or money in lieu thereof, on a certificate setting forth the
name and description of the servant in the pay account."
At the time of the passage of the last act, the pay of a
private was five dollars a month, with rations and clothing
of certain money value in addition. The effect of the act was
precisely the same as if the money value of the whole had
been ascertained, and the amount had been inserted as the
allowance or emolument to be paid to the officer in addition
to his own regular pay.
There is nothing in the act which expresses any intention
on the part of Congress that, whenever the pay of the private
should be thereafter increased, the emolument of the officer
should be proportionably augmented, without further legislation. But this construction was given to the act by the
accounting officers, and the emolument of officers were thus
indirectly increased from time to time until 1861. Whenever the pay, clothing, and rations of private soldiers were
advanced in amount or value, the emoluments of officers
were increased proportionably, not by legislation to that
effect, but by departmental construction.
In 1854, by the act of August 4th,j the pay of privates
was increased to eleven dollars a month, and the allowance
of officers for servants was also increased in like manner.
* 2 Stat. at Large, 785.

t3

Id. 299.

: 10 Id. 575.

TNITED STATES V. GILMORE.

[Sup. OtL

Opinion of the court.

At length, when, in 1861, by the act of August 3d,* the
pay of pr*ivates was augmented to thirteen dollars a month,
and the army ration was increased, and the emoluments of
the officers were also augmented by the construction referred
to, the subject attracted the attention of Congress, and by
the act of July 17th, 1862,t it was provided that "the first
section of the act, approved August 6th, 1861, entitled 'An
act to increase the pay of privates in the regular army and
in the volunteers in the service of the United States,' shall
not be so construed, after the passage of this act, as to increase the emoluments of the commissioned officers of the
army."
This act virtually gave the legislative sanction to the construction which had heretofbre prevailed at the departments,
in respect to the past acts; but virtually, also, prohibited its
future application. It expressly forbid its application to the
increase of pay provided for by the act of August, 1861;
the departmental officers conformed their action to its directions, and thenceforth limited the emoluments of officers in respect to servants' pay to the allowances made under
the act of 1854.
In 1864, another act was passed on the 20th of June,t by
which the pay of privates was still further increased to sixteen dollars a month, without any mention of officers' emoluments; and it is under this act that the claim under consideration is made. It is not denied that the action of the
accounting officers, under the act of 1862, is correct, but it
is insisted that the act of 1864 must be construed as were
the-acts of 1861 and the former acts increasing pay, until
the prohibitory act of 1862.
But it by no means follows, from the silence of the act of
1864, in respect to the emoluments of officers, that the old
construction must be applied to it. The contrary inference,
we think, is better warranted.
We have already said that the correctness of the original
interpretation of the earlier acts increasing pay was at least
* 12 Stat. at Large, 289, 326.

t Id. 594.

$ 13 Id. 144.

Dec. 1869.]

WOOD-PAPER

COMPANY V.

HEFT.

Syllabus.

doubtful. Constructive allowances are not entitled to favor.
And it is certain, though the allowances in question, so far
as made prior to the act of July, 1862, were confirmed by
that act, that its prohibition of that construction in future,
as applied to the act of 1861, must be taken, at least, as a
legislative disapproval of the construction itself. It cannot,
then, be assumed, that when the act of 1864 was passed,
Congress intended that this disapproved construction should
be applied to it.
We conclude, on the contrary, that the indirect effect,
claimed for the act of 1864, of increasing the emoluments
of officers, was not contemplated by the legislature, and cannot properly be given to it.
The construction contended for was not given to that act
by the accounting officers, and we cannot say that, in rejecting it, these officers committed any error.
'We agree with the counsel for the appellee that no effect,
can be given in this case to the act of March 3d, 1865,*
which declares that "the measure of allowance for pay for
an officer's servant is the pay of a private soldier, as fixed
by law at the time." In prior acts, this allowance had extended to the pay, clothing, and subsistence of a private.
The intention of this act seems to be that the allowance shall
be limited to the pay.t But whatever the intention, the act
can have no retrospective operation.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded for further
proceedingsV

IN

WOOD-PAPER

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

COMPANY V. HEEFT.

1. An appeal upon a bill for the infringement of a patent dismissed, it appearing that after the appeal the appellants had purchased a certain
patent to the defendants, under which the defendants sought to protect
themselves; and that the defendants as compensation bad taken stock
* 13 Stat. at Large, 487.

t

Winthrop's Digest of Opinions of Judge Advocate-General, 264.

