590

THE POTOMAC.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Internal Revenue, be deemed necessary," have no application to the point. The commissioner has exercised nojudgment, and prescribed no regulations on the subject, so far as
appears. The bond has no reference to such conditions as
are required in distillery bonds, and cannot be affected by
them. " 'Tis not so written in the bond."
ORDERED that it be certified to the judges of the Circuit
Court, in answer to the question submitted, that the defendants are
NOT LIABLE.

TI E POTOMAC.
1. Although the duty of vessels propelled by steam is to keep clear of those
moved by wind, yet these latter must not, by changing their course,
instead of keeping on it, put themselves carelessly in the way of the
former, and so render ineffective their movements to give the sailing
vessels sufficient berth.
2. The confessions of a master, in a case of collision, are evidence against
the owner.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of New York,
in a case of collision between the schooner Bedell and the
steamer Potomac, in the Chesapeake Bay, resulting in the
total loss of the schooner. The collision occurred on a starlight night in July. The schooner was heading about north,
going up the bay, sailing by the wind, closehauled, with a
fresh breeze, west-northwest. Whcther or not she had a
light on board was a matter about which the evidence was
contradictory; the weight of it being to the effect that she
had not. The steamer, with a good lookout and a full numDer of seamen, was descending the bay and sailing due south
at about nine miles an hour, with all her lights set and
brightly burning. When about three-quarters of a mile off
the schooner was discovered on the starboard bow of the
steamer by the lookout of the steamer, who reported the
fact to the officer in charge. The order was immediately
given to starboard the helm two points, and after this was

Dec. 1869.]

TnE POTOMAC.
Opinion of the court.

done, and the mate who had the command saw the vessel
about half a point on the starboard bow, the further order
was given and executed to steady the helm.
In addition to this, the mate, in watching the movements
of the schooner, discovered, notwithstanding his efforts to
give her a wide berth to the west, that she was still approaching nearer the steamer, and again starboarded his helm, and
slowed and backed. The captain of the schooner, however,
about two minutes before the collision, ordered her helmsman to put her helm hard up; and the movements of the
steamer thus proved ineffectual to prevent the boats coming
together. He had not seen the steamer until when within
half a mile of her. When the vessels struck, the schooner
had fallen off from about a north course to nearly an east
one.
The helmsman of the steamer testified, that the mate of
the steamer was asleep when the schooner was reported to
him; but this the mate denied. It was certain that he was
on deck immediately afterwards, unconfused and energetic.
When the vessels struck, the captain of the schooner, who
was hauled over the railing upon the steamer, and so saved,
was asked by the mate why he had kept his vessel right
across the steamer's bows; to which he replied that he did
not understand the steamer's lights till too late; and while
talking afterwards with the captain said that he had "no
one to blame but himself." Subsequently, in a conversation at the notary's office, where he happened to be, making
his protest, he stated that he "mistook the steamer's lights,
and supposed them to be on the stern instead of on the
bow."
The District Court decreed against the steamer; a decree
which the Circuit Court reversed. The question in this
court was whether the reversal was right.
Mr. . C. Benedict, for the appellant; Mr. B. R. Curtis,
contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is a' rare occurrence in the history of cases of this kind,

TnE POTOMAC.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

where a sailing vessel and steamship approaching each other
ill opposite directions, or on intersecting lines, have come
in contact, that the sailing vessel has been adjudged to be
ill fault. The law casting the greater responsibility oil the
steamer on account of her motive power, and the sailing
vessel having an easy duty to perform, it has been generally
found on investigation, that the collision was the result of a
relaxation of vigilance on the part of the officers of the
steamer. It has sometimes happened, however, that the
steamer was not to blame, and the present case, in our opinion, is one of that character. It is unnecessary to restate
the rules of navigation, obligatory upon vessels in the predicament these were on the night in question. They were
elaborately presented by this court in the case of The Steamship b. v. Rumbell,* and were recently affirmed in the case
of The Carroll.t One of these rules requires the steamer to
keep out of the way of the sailing vessel; but to enable her
to do this efictively, the law imposes the corresponding obligation on the sailing vessel to keep her course. If, therefore, the steamer adopts proper measures of precaution to
avoid the collision, which would have been effective if the
schooner had not changed her course, she is not chargeable
for the consequences of the collision. Any other rule would
condemn the steamer, no imatter how gross the misconduct
of the sailing vessel.
That the steamer, on this occasion, seasonably employed
the proper measures to have prevented this disaster, and
that it would not have occurred, if the schooner had been
equally mindful of her duty, is, we think, unmistakably
shown by the evidence. The proceedings taken on board
the steamer were enough, if the schooner had kept her
course, to have placed the respective boats out of reach
of danger. The accident could have happened in no other
way than by a change of" the schooner's course, and that
this was made is evident, for when the vessels collided the
schooner had fallen off from about a north course to nearly
* 21 H~oward, 372.

tSulrva, 302.

Dec. 1869.]

THE POTOMAC.
Opinion of the court.

an east course. Besides, the only man on board the schooner
who was examined as a witness, says that he put his helm
hard up, by the captain's order, about two minutes before
the collision. If the schooner had kept her course, instead
of porting her helm and changing it to the eastward, the
collision would not have occurred.
The effect of the change of course was to bring the
schooner directly across the steamer's track, and to render
what followed inevitable. There is nothing in the record
to show a justification for this change of course, and it will
not do to say it was taken on account of the dangerous
proximity of the vessels, for at the united rate at which they
were running, they were, according to the testimony of the
wheelsman of the schooner as to the point of time when he
ported her helm, at least half a mile apart. We think it is
clear that this change of course was adopted earlier than the
wheelsman says; but be this as it may, whenever adopted
there was no necessity for it, either real or apparent, and
the persons in charge of the schooner do not furnish even
an excuse for their conduct.
It is not seen in what respect the steamer was remiss. She
had the full complement of competent seamen, the necessary
lookout and lights, and began her measures to keep clear of
the schooner as soon as she was observed. That she was not
sooner observed was not the fault of those in charge of the
steamer, for the schooner was sailing without a light; and
there is nothing to show that the lookout of the steamer, by
vigilant watching, could have reported her any sooner. It
is true the evidence is somewhat conflicting on the point of
whether the schooner had a light or not, but the better
opinion on the whole case is, that she had no light.
If the persons on board the steamer were watchful, it was
not the case with those in control of the schooner, for, if they
had been equally attentive to their business, they would not
have allowed the steamer-sailing as she was in a starlight
night, and with her lights brightly burning-to have approached within a half mile, without being seen by them.
VOL. VIII.

38

THE POTOMAC.

[sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

We have considered this case thus far without reference
to the admissions of the master of the schooner on this subject, but if we give them their proper weight, they corroborate very strongly the view we take of the cause of this collision. The master admitted, as soon as he was taken on
board the steamer after the disaster, that the collision occurred through his fault, and this admission was repeated
when he noted his protest. His statements on the point were
full and explicit, and could not have been easily rmisunderstood; but if they were not true, or were misunderstood,
why was he not called to contradict or explain them ? The
legality of this evidence cannot be questioned, for courts of
admiralty have uniformly allowed the declarations of the
master, in a case of collision, to be brought against the
owner, on the ground that when the transaction occurred,
the master represented the owner, and was his agent in navigating the vessel. This sort of evidence is confined to the
confessions of the master, and cannot be extended to any
other person in the employment of the boat, for in no proper
sense has the owner intrusted his authority to any one but
the master. The authorities on this subject are collected in
the case of The Enlerprise.*
It has been argued that the lookout and helmsman of the
steamer, whose testimony was taken by the owner of the
schooner, prove want of vigilance on the part of the steamer.
We have carefully examined this testimony, and cannot see
that it materially contradicts the testimony given by the officers of the steamer, save in one particular. The helmsman
says the mate was asleep when the schooner was reported to
him, but this the mate expressly denies. It is not necessary,
however, to determine this point, because the evidence clearly
shows that as soon as the schooner was discovered and reported, and there was a necessity for action, the mate was
wide awake, and promptly gave the necessary order to starboard the helm, which order was as promptly executed.
This was timely done, and would have been effectual but for
* 2 Curtis, 320.

Dec. 1869.]

DREHMAN V. STIFLE.

Statement of the case.

the subsequent fault of the schooner, for which she is adjudged to bear the loss caused by this collision.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

DREHMAN V. STIFLE.
1. Section 4 of the constitution of Missouri, which ordains that,' No person shall be prosecuted in any civil action for or on account
of any aet by him done, performed or executed, after the first of January,
one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, by virtue of military authority vested in him by the Government of the United States, or that
of this State, to do such act, or in pursuance to orders received by him
from any person vested with such authority; and if any action or proceeding shall hare heretofore been, or shall hereafter be, instituted'against
any personfor the doing of any such act, the defendant may plead this section in bar thereof-"
is not a bill of attainder within thu meaning of that clause of the Constitution of the United States, which ordains that no State shall pass any
such bill.
2. Nor does it impair the obligation of a contract, within the meaning of
the same constitution, because, in the case of a contract relating to real
property-as, ex. gr.,. a landlord's covenant that he will keep his tenant
in possession-its effect -is to prevent a determination under particular
State statutes of a party's mere right of possession, irrespectively of the
merits of title, and where the same result might have confessedly been
lawfully brought about by the State legislature, by a repeal of the particular statute, and without impairing the obligation of any contract.
3. Semblc, that the case might be different if by giving effect to the provision, the party was precluded from asserting a title and enforcing a
right.

IN error to the Supreme Court of Missouri; the case being
thus:
In 1854, Mrs. Tyler leased to one Drehman, a house and
lot in St. Louis for twenty years, that is to say, till 1874; and
by the terms of the lease convenanted to keep the said -Drehman
in lawful possession of the premises during the term for which they
were leased to him. In 1860, Mrs. Tyler sold the fee of the
premises to one Stifle, who thus becamelandlord to Drehman,
her lessee.
In 1861, during the late rebellion, Stifle, as "!colonel of

