842

EXPRESS COMPANY V. -KOUNTZE BROTHERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

of land belonging to him. The order of the court made
thereon necessarily involved under the statute a determination that he possessed such interest, derived from the former
government, as to render it proper that lie should be heard
in opposition to the survey. His right to contest the survey,
founded upon the interest alleged, was then settled. The
claimant might, perhaps, have subsequently insisted that the
intervenxor had no such interest as to give him a right to object to the survey, and have asked on that ground for a
revocation of the order. But not having taken any such
course, he cannot now object to the position of the intervenor
as a contestant. As contestant, the intervenor could, of
course, show his own occupation of the land in dispute to
meet and overthrow the pretensions of the claimant founded
upon his asserted possession of the premises.
As to the eastern boundary of the approved survey, we
are not entirely satisfied that it is correct. There is much
force in the position that this boundary should run along the
base of the hills, and not embrace any portion of their sides.
But the United States, who might have interposed an objection of thib character, have not appealed from the decree approving the survey in its present form. They cannot, therefore, raise any objection to its correctness now.*
Upon the whole case, we are satisfied that the survey approved, is as favorable to the appellant as any which the
evidence would justify. The decree sustaining that survey
must therefore be
AFFIRMED.

EXPRESS COMPANY V. KOUNTZE BROTHERS.
1. The act of February 22d, 1848, which enacts that the provisions of the
act of February 22d, 1847, transferring to the District Courts of the
United States, cases of Federal character and jurisdiction begun in the
territorial courts of certain Territories of the United States, and then
admitted to the Union (none of which, on their admission as States,
* Fossat Case, 2 Wallace, 649.

Dec. 1869.] ' ExPrEss COMPANY V. IKOUINTZE BROTHERS.

343

case.
Statement of the
however, as it happened, were attached to any judicial circuits of the
United States), shall apply to all cases which may be pending in the Supreme or other Superior Courts of any Territory of the United States
which may be admitted as a State at the tine of its admission, is to be
construed so as to transfer the cases into District Courts of the United
States, if, on admission, the State did not form part of a judicial circuit,
but-if attached to such a circuit, then into the Circuit Court.
2. An averment in the declaration, that the plafntiffs were a firm of natural
persons, associated for the purpose of carrying on the banking business
in Omahh, Nebraska Territory (a place which, at the tiine of the suit
brought, was remote from the great centres of trade and commerce), and
had been for a period of eighteen months engaged in that business, at
that place, is equivalent to saying that they had their domicile there, and
is a sufficient averment of citizenship.
3. An averment that the defendant is a foreign corporation, formed under
and created by the laws of the State of New York, is a sufficient averment
that the defendant is a citizen of New York.
.4.A common carrier of merchandise is responsible for actual negligence,
even admitting his receipt to be legally sufficient to restrict his common
law liability. And he is chargeable with actual negligence, unless he
exercise the care and prudence of a prudent man in his own affairs.
5. A simple omission of a court to charge the jury as fully on som6 one of
the points of a case about which it is charging generally, as a party
alleges on error that the court ought to have charged, cannot be assigned
for error, when it does not appear that the party himself made any request of the court to charge in the form now asserted to have been the
proper one.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska.
The case, which involved two distinct subjects, one of jurisdiction and the other of merits, was thus:
I. As to the matter of jurisdiction. This again involved two
different points.
An act of 1847* provided, that in all cases of Federal
character and jurisdiction commenced in the Superior Courts
of the Territory of Florida, and the Court of Appeals of
that Territory, after the 3d of March, 1845, "in which judgments or decrees were rendered, or which are claimed to have
been since pending there, in the records and- proceedings
thereof, and the judgment and decrees therein, are hereby
transferred to the District Court of the United States for the
District of Florida." The provisions of the act were made
* February 22d, 1847,

8; 9 Stat. at Large, 130.

344

EXPRESS COMPANY v. KOUNTZE BROTHERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

at the time applicable to cases pending in the then new State
of Michigan, and by an act of 1848,* were afterwards extended to courts of the then new State of Iowa. Neither
Florida, Michigan, nor Iowa were, at the time of becoming
States, attached to any judicial circuit of the United States.
This last act, the act of 1848, declares that the provisions
of the act of 1847 shall apply to all cases which may be
pending in the Supreme, or other Superior Court of any
Territory of the United States which may be admitted as a
State, at the time of its admission. With these acts in force,
Kountze Brothers brought suit in a District Court of the
Territory of Nebraska against the United States Express
Company. The declaration described the plaintiffs as "an association of persons not incorporated, formed for the purpose
of carrying on the banking business at Omaha, Nebraska,
and who were, at the time the cause of action arose, and
still were engaged in said business at Omaha," and described
the defendants as "a foreign corporation fbrmed under and
created by the laws of the State of New York."
The answer and a replication being filed prior to the 3d
of July, 1867, the proceedings while thus in fieri, were on
that day-Nebraska having now become a State of the
Union-brought and filed by the plaiatiffs in the (ircuit
Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska.
Nebraska, as a Territory, was, at the time of her admission

to the Union, attached to the eighth judicial circuit of the United
States.
IL As to the merits. The suit was brought to recover from
the Express Company, as common carriers, the value of certain gold dust which they had undertaken to forward from
Omaha to Philadelphia.
The dust had been delivered to the company, for the
transportation just mentioned, on the 29th of September,
1864, and was one of regular series of consignments, running through a term of more than eighteen months. The
receipt given for it was the ordinary receipt of the company.
* February 22d, 1848,

2; 9 Ib. 211-12.

Dec. 1869.]

EXPRESS COMPANY V. "KOUNTZE BROTHERS.

345

Statement of the case.

It set forth, that it Had been expressly agreed, that the company should not be liable "for any loss or damage by fire,
th acts of God, or the enemies of the government, mobs, riots,
insurrections, or pirates, or from any of the dangers incident
to a time of war."
There were two routes used by the company to convey
their property.- One was across the State of Iowa, and the
other to St. Joseph, Missouri, and thence across that State by
the Hannibal Railroad. The latter route was the most expeditious, but the former was the safest, as the rebellion was
in progress at this time, and Missouri, although adhering to
the Union, was infested with predatory rebels, as well as
with more regular bodies of the Confederate troops.
The gold dust was conveyed by the St. Joseph route, and
the company was robbed of it, by a band of armed men,
while it was in transit across the State.
On the trial, the plaintiffs testified that they gave notice
to the agent of the company not to send their gold dust by
the St. Joseph route; though there was testimony, also, that
tended to prove that this notice was not until after the robbery of this particular gold.
No exception was taken, on the trial, to the admission or
rejection of evidence, and the only subject for review here
was the charge given by the court to the jury. The court
instructed the jury only on a single point, that of negligence.
The jury were told substantially that, although the contract
was legally sufficient to restrict the liability of the defendant
as a common carrier, yet, if the defendant was guilty of
actual negligence, it was responsible. And that it was
chargeable with negligence, unless it exercised the care and
prudence of a prudent man in his own affairs. The Express
Company requested the court to charge the jury that it was
not liable, unless grossly negligent.
The jury having found for the plaintiffs, and the judgment
having.gone accordingly, the present writ of error was taken.
The case being thus, here the grounds asserted for reversal were:
I. As to jurisdiction.

846

EXPRESS COMPANY V. KOUNTZE BROTHlERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

1. Because there was no statutory authority for removal
into the Circuit Court.
2. Because there was no such averments of citizenship as
to bring the case within the provision of the Constitution and
Judiciary Act of 1789. [This second point, however, not
being taken in the court below.]
II. Because the court had not charged that the company
was not liable, unless grossly negligent.
Mr. Ashton, for the Express Company, plaintiff in error:
I. As to the jurisdiction. There was no authority for the
transfer of this case into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Nebraska. The case, if it fell within
the provision at all, went to the District Court, and not to the
Circuit Court. The act of 1847 is explicit that the cases in
the enumerated courts of the Territory of Florida should be
transferred to the Distriet Court of the United States; and,
if the act of February, 1848, authorized the transfer of this
case into any Federal court, it required its transfer to the
District Court of Nebraska. There would seem to be no
answer to this suggestion whatever.
Again: It is settled that where a plaintiff asserts a right
to prosecute a suit in the Circuit Court of the United States,
on the ground of the citizenship of the parties, the pleadings must distinctly aver and show that they are citizens
of different States, and that one of them is a citizen of the
State where the suit is brought; and, if"he omit to do this,
and a judgment is rendered in his favor, by the Circuit
Court, this court, on a writ of error or appeal, will reverse
the judgment for want of jurisdiction in the court below.*
This doctrine is equally applicable to cases instituted in
State courts, which may be the subjects of removal into
the Circuit Court, on the ground of the citizenship of the
parties.t
* Bingham v. Cabot, 3 Dallas, 382; Capron v. Van Noorden, 2 Cranch,
126; Montalet v. Murray, 4 Id. 46; Morgan v. Callender, 4 Id. 370; Wallen
v. Williams, 7 Id. 602; Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 Howard, 401.

t Conkling, Treatise, 4 ed. 155; Ward v. Arredondo, 1 Paine, 410.

Dec. 1869.]

ExPRESs COMPANY V. KOUNTzE BROTHERS.

347

Argument for the carrier.

The declaration describes the plaintiffs as "an association
of persons carrying on the banking business in Omaha,
Nebraska." "This court does not hold," says Curtis, J.,
"that either a voluntary association of persons, or an association into a body politic, created by law, is a citizen of a
State within the meaning of the Constitution."* Moreover,
where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depends on the
character of the parties, and such party, either plaintiff or
defendant, consists of a number of individuals, each one
must be competent to sue in the courts of the United States,
or jurisdiction cannot be entertained.t
The averments of the petition referred to are not equivalent to an averment that the plaintiffs are citizens of Nebraska.t They may have been aliens, or citizens of New
York, or some other State, doing business at Omaha. No
legal, inference that they were citizens of Nebraska can be
drawn from any of the facts averred.
The description of the Express Company as a "foreign
corporation, formed under and created by the laws of the
State of New York," is not a sufficient or proper description of the defendants to bring them within the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court.ยง
The petition fails to aver that the corporation defendant
has its principal place of business in New York, and is therefore defective, under the, opinion of Chief Justice Taney in
the last case in Goington Drawbridge Co. v. Shepherd.I
II. The merits. The property was delivered, accepted, and
carried under and subject to the provisions of a special contract, and not under or in pursuance of a general undertaking on the part of the defendants to transport the property as common carriers. There can be no doubt, at this
* Lafayette Insurance Company v. French, 18 Howard, 405; and see Paul
v. Virginia, 8 Wallace, 168.
- Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 3 Cranch, 267.
$ Brown v. Keene, 8 Petegs, 112; Piquignot v. Pennsylvania Railroad
Company, 16 Howard, 104.
larshall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co., 16 Howard, 314; Lafayette
Insurance Co. v. French, 18 Id. 404.

H 20 Id. 227.

848

ExPRESS OOMPANY V. 1KOUNTZE BROTHERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the carrier.

time, notwithstanding that able writers once thought other
wise, that such a receipt, accepted under such circumstances,
constitutes an agreement between the company and the owners
of the property, and has the same effect in law as if signed
by both parties.*
The defendants having been thus shown to have been special carriers of the property in question, the court should
have instructed the jury that the plaintiffs could not recover
in this action.
It is a question of law for the court, and not of fact for
the jury, whether facts proved or admitted constitute a special contract or not.t
Whenever a special contract exists, changing the character of a carrier from a common to a private carrier, the latter
cannot be declared against as a common carrier, but the
action must be on a special contract, or for a breach of duty
arising out of such contract; and if the declaration in such
case set forth the general liability of the defendants as a
common carrier, the variance is fatal.t
The declaration here was upon a supposed general undertaking as common carriers.
The court should have instructed the jury, that by the
terms of this contract, there could be no recovery against
the defendants, unless they were guilty of gross negligence
or misfeasance in regard to this property, and the loss was
occasioned thereby.
The terms of the contract leave no doubt as to the meaning of the parties. And we contend that effect should be
given to their stipulation, at least to the extent of relieving
the carriers from liability for every degree of negligence,
except that which has been termed gross or guilty negligence,
or which amounts to positive misfeasancc.
* York Company v. Central Railroad, 8 Wallace, 111.
j- Kimball v. Rutland & Burlington Railroad Company, 26 Vermont,

248.

t

Kimball v. Rutland & Burlington Railroad Company, 26 Vermont,

248; Shaw v. York & N. 2. Railway Company, 13 Adolphus & Ellis (N.
S.), 347; Crouch v. London & N. W. Railroad Company, 7 Exchequer, 70i.

Dec. 1869.]

EXPRESS COMPANY V. KOUNTZE BROTHERS.

849

Opinion of the court.

This court has never decided, we suppose, that a stipulation against losses from negligence, short of misfeasance or
misconduct, cannot be made by a carrier of merchandise.
In the case of York Company v. CentralBailroad*the question
did not arise, but there Field, J., would seem to speak of
misconduct of the carrier as a thing alone against which no
contract could be maintained.
The spirit of the later adjudications, in those States where
the subject has been most carefully considered, is not opposed to any agreement or arrangement between parties to
such a transaction, which shall relieve the carrier of property
from responsibility for negligence which does not amount
to positive misconduct or fraud, misfeasance, malfeasance,
or gross negligence, in respect to the subject committed to
his care.t
The doctrine of Pollock, C. B., in Beal v. South Devon
Railway Gompany,. that "a contract to which a person has
signed his name is, quoad him, a reasonable contract; that
he has agreed to it, and therefore has no right to complain
of it," is a doctrine which commends itself to good sense.
Mr,Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
Before proceeding to consider the merits of this controversy, it is necessary to dispose of the poini of jurisdiction
which is raised.
It is urged that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction
over the cause, because there was no authority to transfer it.
This depends on the construction of the acts of Con.gress
relating to the subject.
On the admission of a new State into the Union, it be*8

Wallace, 113.

t Dorr v. New Jersey Steam Navigation Company, 1 Kernan, 485; Wells
v. Steam Navgation Company, 4 Selden, 381; Wells v. New York Central
Railroad, 24 New York, 181 ; Smith v.Central Railroad Company, 1b. 222;
Bissell v. The same, 25 Id. 442; Moore v. Evans, 14 Barbour, 528; Brown
v. Eastern Railroad Company, 11 Cushing, 97; Buckland v. Adams' Express Company, 97 Massachusetts, 124; Kallmftn v.United States Express
Company, 3 Kansas, 210; Prentice v. Decker, 49 Barbour, 21.
$ 5 Uurlstone & N orman, 883.

350

EXPRESS COMPANY V. "KOUNTZE BROTHERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

comes necessary to provide not only for the judgments and
decrees of the Territorial courts, but also for their unfinished business. In recognition of this necessity Congress.
after Florida became a State, passed an act providing, among
other things, that all cases of Federal character and jurisdiction pending in the courts of the Territory be transferred
to the District Court of the United States for the District of
Florida. The provisions of this act were made applicable,
at the time of its passage, to cases pending in the courts of
the late Territory of Mlichigan, and were afterwards extended to the courts of the late Territory of Iowa. Congress, in making this provision for the changed condition of
Iowa, thought proper in the same act to adopt a permanent
system on this subject, and extended the provisions of the
original and supplementary acts to cases from all Territories
which should afterwards be formed into States.
It is contended, if this cause were transferable at all, it
went, under these acts of Congress, to the District Court,
and not to the Circuit Court. This would have been true if
Nebraska had not at the time of the transfer occupied a different judicial status from that occupied by Florida, Michigan, or Iowa, when these laws were passed. These States
were not then a part of any one of the judicial circuits,
while Nebraska, when this cause was removed, was attached
to the eighth circuit. Their District Courts had general
Circuit Court powers, while the District Court in Nebraska
had only the ordinary jurisdiction properly belonging to the
District Courts of the country. If Nebraska had not at the
time of the transfer formed a part of ajudicial circuit, her District Court would, by virtue of the laws above recited, have
been clothed with the general powers of a Circuit Court,
and could have taken cognizance of this cause, and it would,
in the purview of these laws, have been rightfully transferable to it. To construe these laws so as to limit the right
of transfer to the District Court alone, without regard to the
powers of that court, would defeat the very object Congress
had in view. That object is made plain enough by the legislation relating to this subject. It was, on the admission

Dec. 1869.]

EXPRESS

COMPANY V.XOUNTZE BROTHERS.

851

Opinion of the court.

of a new State, to transfer pending civil cases of a Federal
character from the Territorial courts into the District Court,
if the State did not form part of a judicial circuit; because
in such a case the District Court was invested with Circuit
Court powers. But if the State were attached to a circuit,
then, as the District Court did not possess this jurisdiction,
the cause was transferable to the Circuit Court. To adopt
any other construction would render the provisions for the
transfer of causes, in case a new State on its admission were
attached to a circuit, nugatory.
It i said, if cases of a Fedeial character were properly
transferable to the Circuit Court, this was not one of them;
because it does not appear that the suit was between citizens
of different States. It is true there is no direct averment to
this effect, but it is the necessary consequence of the facts
stated in the pleadings, that the parties to the suit were citizens of different States. The averment that the plaintiffs were
a firm of natural persons, associated together for the purpose
of carrying on the banking business in Omaha, and had
been for a period of eighteen months engaged in said business at said place, is equivalent to saying they had their
domicile there. In this country people usually live and have
their citizenship in the place where they do business. Especially is this true of persons engaged in a business requiring
capital, and involving risk, at a point which is remote from
the great centres of trade and commerce.
The citizenship of the defendant is clearly enough averred.
It is alleged that the United States Express Company, the
defendant in the suit, is a foreign corporation formed under
and created by the laws of the State of New York. The
obvious meaning of this allegation is that the defendant is a
citizen of the State of New York. The course of proceeding
in the court below shows that the parties to the suit recognized it as being of Federal jurisdiction, and it could only
be so (as there was no Federal question involved), on the
ground that the plaintiffs and defendant were citizens of
different States. If the parties had thought otherwise, after
the cause reached the Circuit Court, the point would have

852

ExPRESS COMPANY V. KOUNTzE BROTHERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

been taken, and an effort made at least to test the jurisdictional question. The record shows that nothing of the sort
was attempted.
There remains to be considered the merits of this case, so
far as they are presented in the bill of exceptions.
The only subject for review here is the charge given by
the court to the jury. The court instructed the jury only
on a single point-that of negligence. The jury were told
substantially that, although the contract was legally sufficient
to restrict the liability of the defendant as a common carrier,
yet, if the defendant was guilty of actual negligence, it was
responsible. And that it was chargeable with negligence,
unless it exercised the care and prudence of a prudent man
in his own affairs. The defendant requested the court to
charge the jury that it was not liable unless grossly negligent.
To understand what are the rights of the parties to this
suit, so far as the court was asked concerning them, it is
necessary to see what were the facts proved in the case. It
appears that the particular lot of gold dust, which is the
subject of this controversy, was confided to the express company for transportation to Philadelphia, on the 29th of September, 1864, and that it was one of a series of shipments
of the same kind, running through a period of eighteen
months or more. The receipt given for the packages was
not different from the ordinary receipts of the company, and
was doubtless intended to limit the liability of the company
as common carriers. There were two routes employed by
the express company to convey their property-one across
the State of Iowa, and the other to St. Joseph, Missouri, and
thence across that State by the Hannibal Railroad. The latter was the most expeditious route, but the former the safest,
as Missouri, although at the time adhering to the Union,
was in a disturbed and unsettled condition. The property
in dispute was conveyed by the St. Joseph route, and was
robbed while in transit across the State by a band of armed
men. Under the circumstances in which the country was
then placed, no prudent man, in the management of his own

Dec. 1869.]

EXPRESS COMPANY V. "KOUNTZEBROTHERS.

853

Opinion of the court.

affairs, would have sent his property by the Missouri route,
if another route were open to him. It seems that the plaintiffs acted on this idea, for one of them testifies that he notified the agent of the company not to send their gold dust by
the St. Joseph route. If this testimony be true, it is hard
to conceive a grosser case of negligence, for here were two
routes-the one safe and the other hazardous-and yet the'
express company, in defiance of the wishes of the owner of
the property, reject the safe, and adopt the hazardous route.
Carriers of goods cannot escape responsibility if they behave
in this manner, for they are required to follow the instructions given by the owner of property concerning its transportation, whenever practicable.* In this case it was practicable to obey the instruction given by the plaintiffs, and
the defendant furnishes no excuse for not obeying it.
It is said that the weight of the evidence is against the.
statement of the plaintiffs, that they directed their goods
sent by the Iowa route. Conceding this to be true, it cannot be corrected here. It was a proper matter to be considered by the court below, on a motion for a new trial, but
the granting or refusing such motions are not subject to.be
reviewed in this court.
If the evidence in the case tended to prove the defendant
guilty of actual negligence, then the court below were justified in basing upon it an instruction to the jury. That it
did tend to prove it is clear, and the charge of the court on
the subject correctly stated the law to the jury.
As the court was not asked to instruct the jury on any
other point, there is not, as the argument for the plaintiff
in error seems to suppose, anything else for this court to
review. It is the usual practice for the presiding judge at a
nisi prius trial, in his charge to the jury, to take up the facts
and circumstances in proof, explain their bearing on the controverted points, and declare what are the legal rights of the
parties arising out of them. If the charge does not go far
enough, it is the privilege of counsel to call the attention of
Redfield on Carriers, 34.
VOL. VIMr

23

YOUNG

V. MARTIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the court to any question that has been omitted, and to request an instruction upon it, which, if not given, can be
brought to the notice of this court, if an exception is taken.
But the mere omission to charge the jury on some one of
the points in a case, when it does not appear that the party
feeling himself aggrieved made any request of the court on
the subject, cannot be assigned for error.
JUDGMENT AFFIRM1ED.

YoUNG V. MARTIN.
1. The entries of a clerk of a Territorial District Court, stating in a general
way the proceedings had in that court, and that they were excepted to
by counsel, do not present the action of the court and the exceptions
taken in such form that they can be considered by this court.
2. It is no part of the duty of the clerk to note in his entries the exceptions
taken, or to note any other proceedings of counsel, except as they are
preliminary to, or the basis of the orders or judgment of the court.
3. To be of any avail, exceptions must be drawn up so as to present distinctly the ruling of the court upon the points raised, and must be
signed and sealed by the presiding judge. Unless so signed and sealed,
they do not constitute any part of the record which can be considered
by an appellate court.
4. When parties, after a demurrer interposed by them to an answer is overruled, instead of relying upon its sufficiency, file a replication, they
thereby abandon the demurrer, and it ceases henceforth to be a part of
the record.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
The case was begun in a District Court of the Territory
just named, and was carried thence to the Supreme Court
of the same, under the provisions of an act of the legislature of the Territory, providing for appeals to the Supreme
Court, approved January 18th, 1861.* The 1st section of
that act provides:
ERROR

"That hereafter whenever any final order, judgment, or decree is made or rendered in the District Court of the Territory,
the party aggrieved may have the same reviewed in the Supreme
Revised Statutes of Utah Territory, 1866, p. 66.

