Dec. 1868.]

EX PARTE YERGER.
Statement of the case.

to receive for it, making reasonable deduction for the less
time engaged, and for release from the care, trouble, risk,
and responsibility attending a full execution of the contract.
The leading case on this subject in this country is Masterton v. Brooklyn,* and that fully supports the proposition of
the Court of Claims.

EX PARTE YERGER.
1. In all cases where a Circuit Court of the United States has, in the exercise
of its original jurisdiction, caused a prisoner to be brought before it, and
has, after inquiring into the cause of detention, remanded him to the
custody from which he was taken, this court, in the exercise of its
appellate jurisdiction, may, by the writ of habeas corpus, aided by the
writ of ceriiorari,revise the decision of the Circuit Court, and if it be
found unwarranted by law, relieve the prisoner from the unlawful restraint to which he has been remanded.
2. The second section of the act of March 27th, 1868, repealing so much of the
act of February 5th, 1867, as authorized appeals from the Circuit Courts
to the Supreme Couit, does not take away or affect the appellate jurisdiction of this court by habeas corpus, under the Constitution and the
acts of Congress prior to the date of the last-named act.

ON motion and petition for writs of habeas co?:pus and cer-

tiorari,the case being thus:
The Constitution ordains in regard to the judiciary as
follows:
"The judicial power of the United States shall be vested in
one Supreme Court and in such inferior courts as the Congress
may from time to time ordain and establish. The judicial power
shall extend to all cases in law or equity arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States," &c.
"In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers,
and consuls, and those in which a State shall be a party, the
Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction. In all the other
cases before mentioned, the Supreme Court shall have appellate
jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions, and
under such regulations as the Congress shall make."
* 7 Hill, 62.

Ex

PARTE YERGER.

[Sup. (it.

Statement of the case.

It makes provision, also, in regard to the writ of habeas
corpus, thus:
"The privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion the public
safety may require it."
With these provisions in force, as fundamental law, the
first Congress by the 14th section of the act of September
24th, 1789,* to establish the judicial courts of the United
States, after certain enactments relating to the Supreme
Court, the Circuit Courts, and the District Courts of the
United States, enacted:
"That all the before-mentioned courts shall have power to
issue writs of scire facias, habeas corpus, and all other writs not
especially provided for by statute, which may be necessary for
the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to

the principles and usages of law, and that either of the Justices
of the Supreme Court, as well as Judges of the District Courts.
shall have power to grant writs of habeas corpus for the purpose
of and inquiry into the cause of commitment: Provided, That
writs of habeas corpus shall in no case extend to prisoners in jail
unless they are in custody under or by color of the authority of the
United States, or are committed for trial before some court of the
same, or are necessary to be brought into court to testify."
By statute of 1833,t the writ was extended to prisoners
confined under any authority, whether State or National, for
any act done or omitted in pursuance of a law of the United
States, or of any order, process, or decree of any judge or
court of the United States; and by an act of 1842,1 to
prisoners, being subjects or citizens of foreign states, in
custody under National or State authority for acts done or
omitted by or under color of foreign authority, and alleged
to be valid under the law of nations.
The writ was, however, much further extended, by an act
of the 5th February, 1867,ยง entitled "An act to 'amend' the
* I Stat. at Large, 81.

t 4 Id. 634.

5 1d. 539.

14 Id. 385.

Dec. 1868.]

EX PARTE "ERGER.
Statement of the case.

Judiciary Act of 1789, above quoted."
provided:

This act of 1867,

"That the several courts of the United States, and the several
justices and judges of such courts, within their respective jurisdictions, in addition to the authority already conferred by law, shall
have power to grant writs of habeas corpus in all cases where any
person may be restrained of his or her liberty, in violation of the
Constitution, or of any treaty or law of the United States," &c.
And after providing for the awarding and hearing of the
writ, the act proceeds:
" From the final decision of any judge, justice, or courts inferior
to the Circuit Court, appeal may be taken to the Circuit'Court
of the United States for the district in which the said cause is
heard, and from the judgment of said Circuit Court to the Supreme
Court of the United States."

Finally, by an act of March- 27th, 1868,* passed after an
appeal in a particular case, the subject of much party discussion, under the above-quoted act of 1867, from the Circuit
Court to the Supreme Court of the United States, bad been
argued before this latter court, had been taken into advisement by it-a history more particularly set forth in Ex parte
McCardlet-Congress passed an act providing by its second
section :
"That so much of the act, approved February 5th, 1867, entitled
'An act to amend an act to establish the judicial courts of the
United States, approved September 24th, 1789,' as authorized an
appeal from the judgment of the Circuit Court to the Supreme
Court of the United States, or the exercise of any such jurisdiction by said Supreme Court on appeals which have been or
may hereafter be taken, be, and the same is hereby, repealed."
In this state of constitutional and statutory provisions, a
writ of habeas corpus upon the prayer of one Yerger, addressed
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississippi, was directed to certain military officers
*15 Star. at Large, 44.

t- 7 Wallace, 509.

EX PARTE YERGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

holding the petitioner in custody, commanding them to produce his body, and abide the order of the court.
In obedience to this writ, the petitioner was brought into
court by Major-General R{. S. Granger, who made return in
due form, certifying the cause of detention to be, that the
petitioner had been arrested, and was held for trial, upon a
charge of murder, by a military commission, under the act of
Congress of the 2d of March, 1867, "to provide for the more
efficient government of the rebel States."
Upon this return, the petitioner was ordered into the custody of the marshal, and the court proceeded to hear argument. It was admitted on the part of the United States,
that the petitioner was a private citizen of the State of Mississippi; that he was being tried by the military commission,
without a jury, and without presentment or indictment by a
grand jury; and, that he was not, and never had been, connected with the army and navy of the United States, or with
the militia in active service in time of war or invasion.
Upon this case, the Circuit Court adjudged that the imprisonment of the petitioner was lawful, and passed an order.
that the writ of habeas corpus be dismissed, and that the
prisoner be remanded to the custody of the military officer
by whom he had been brought into court, to be held and
detained for the purposes, and to answer the charge set fbrth
in the return.
To obtain the reversal of that order, and relief from imprisonment, the petitioner now asked for a writ of certiorari
to bring here for review the proceedings of the Circuit Court,
and for a writ of habeas corpus to be issued, under the authority of this court, to the officers to whose custody he was
remanded.
The questions therefore were:
1. Whether the action of the Circuit Court was to be regarded as the cause of the commitment, to which the act of
1789 applies the writ of habeas corpus; and whether, if found
unlawful, relief might be granted, although the original inlprisonment was by military officers for the purpose of a trial
before a military commission.

Dec. 1868.]

Ex

PARTE YERGER.

Argument in favor of jurisdiction.

2. If the court possessed this jurisdiction, had it been
taken away by the 2d section of the act of March, 1868?
Upon the suggestion of the Attorney-General, made in
view of the importance of the questions which would probably arise, if the case was brought to hearing, the court
ordered preliminary argument upon the jurisdiction of the
court to issue the writ prayed for; the only question, therefore, raised in the present stage of the case.
Messrs. P. Phillipsand Carlisle,in support of the motion, conceding that this court could grant the writ only in the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction, yet argued, that the writ
of habeas corpus, being a bulwark of freedom, demanded a
liberal interpretation of clauses in the Constitution and statutes relating to it, so as to allow and preserve the writ, rather
than to withhold or destroy it; that the grant of the writ
as here invoked was in the exercise of an appellate power;
that, as was decided in lEx parte Milligan,* in the face of a
powerful argument by Mr. Stanbery to the contrary, proceeding in habeas corpus was a suit, a process of law, by which
The party sought to obtain his rights. The proceeding in the
Circuit Court was therefore a suit; and, undoubtedly, there
had been an order in it; an order, namely, that the writ
of habeas corpus be dismissed, and the prisoner remanded
to answer the charge set forth in the return. Yerger, the
prisoner in this. case, was, therefore, at this time, in the
possession of the military authorities, in virtue of an order
of the Circuit Court. The review by this court of such an
order, was an exercise of appellate power, and of no other
power.
*It was, therefore, unnecessary to invoke such cases as In
re Kfaine.t
But if the exercise of the power which was asked, were
not the exercise of a power in review of a decision of the
Circuit Court, that case would still authorize this application.
What was that case? Kaine was arrested as an alleged fuigilive from justice, and brought before a United States Con* 4 Wallace, 2.

t 14 Howard, 103.

Ex

PARTE YERGER.

[Sup. Ct;.

Argument in favor of jurisdiction.

missioner, who made an order committing him to custody, to
abide the order of the President. A writ of habeas corpus
was then issued by the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York. Kaine was brought
before that court. After a hearing, the writ was dismissed,
and Kaine was remanded and continued in the custody of
the marshal under the arrest and commitment bg the process
of the commissioner.
An application was finally made in this court for a writ of
habeas corpus and a certiorarito the Circuit Court, in order to
review the order made by that court, remanding the prisoner
to the custody of the marshal.
On the hearing of this motion, the writ was refused, not
because of any doubt of the jurisdiction of the court to award
the writ, but because a majority of the court was of opinion
that on the merits the prisoner was not entitled to his discharge. No member of the court expressed an opinion that
the court did not have power, in the exercise of its appellate
jurisdiction, to award the writ in order to " inquire into the
cause of the commitment" made by the Circuit Court, and
to review the judgment of that court; which, this court considered, had been made by the order of remand to the commissioner; though no power might exist in this court to
review directly the act of the commissioner himself. On the
contrary, the jurisdiction was plainly asserted.
In Ex parte Wells,* convicted of murder, and whose sentence was commuted by the President to imprisonment for
life, a habeas corpus was issued by the Circuit Court. On the
return, the position taken by the prisoner that the pardon was
absolute and the condition void, was overruled. The writ
was dismissed and the prisoner remanded. On application to
this court for habeas corpus to reverse this proceeding, all the
judges, but Curtis and Campbell, JJ., maintained the jurisdiction. Curtis, J., refers to his denial of the jurisdiction in
Kaine's case. It will be seen that this denial is placed on the
ground that " the custody of the prisoner was at no time
* 18 Howard, 307.

Dec. 1868.]

EX PARTE YERGER.
Argument in favor of jurisdiction.

changed." He admits""that when a prisoner is brought into
court, he is in the power and under the control of the court;
but unless the court make some order, changing the custody,
the original custody continues."
The question being, whether the order remanding to custody made by the Circuit Court is the "cause of commitment" referred to in the act of 1789, and so subject to the
appellate jurisdiction, by means, of the habeas *corpus, the
turning-point in the opinion of the dissenting judge is,
whether the Circuit Court has made an order, when the
prisoner is produced, changing the original custody. If it
has, then it is admitted, that when he is remanded to the
original custody, the order or judgmeit effecting this is the
"cause of commitment," and may be reviewed in this court
under the provisions of the act of 1789.
The entry in this case is precisely of that character which
gives jurisdiction according to the test made by Curtis, J.
When the prisoner was brought into court, he was ordered
into the custody of the marshal of the district, and there he
remained until he was remanded.
No judge of this court, since its organization, except Baldwin, J., has ever doubted the jurisdiction in such a case as
this. That judge fell into the error of holding that the appellate jurisdiction of this court could only be exercised by
appeal or writ of error. This opinion was given by him on
an application for mandamus (in Ex pare arane), but the
court granted the writ.
Independent of authority, it is clear, on principle, that the
exercise of the appellate power is not limited to any particular
form. When the object is to revise a judicial proceeding the
mode is wholly unimportant, and a writ of habeascorpus, mandamus, certificate of division, writ of error, appeal, or certiorarimay be used, if the legislature so determine.*
On the second point, the counsel contended that the act
of 1867 did not repeal the act of 1789, but, on the contrary, recognized it. Its title was "to amend" that act. It
* 2 Story's Commentaries on the Constitution, 570.

EX PARTE YERGER.

[Sup. Gt.

Argument against jurisdiction.

gave powers in addition to those given by the old act; including an appeal to this court. A repeal is not to be presumed where the language left the intention of the legislature
doubtful.* The act of 1868 took away nothing but the appeal here. But even if the act of 1867 repealed the act of
1789, and the act of 1868 repealed that of 1867, the old act
would be revived; a repeal of a repealing statute reviving
the original statute.

Mr. Hoar, Attorney-General of the United States, contended
that the addressing of the writ to General Granger would be
an exercise of original jurisdiction alone. He does not hold
the prisoner under any order or decree of the Circuit Court,
but holds him by military power. The order of remand
made no new commitment, and issued no new process as an
instrument for it, but only pronounced the old process valid,
and consequently the continuance of the commitment under
it legal. The custody was at no time changed. Certainly,
when a prisoner is brought into court upon the return of a
habeas corpus ad subjiciendum, he was then in the power and
under the control of the court. The court might admit him
to bail, and might also take order for the future production
of the prisoner without bail ; but in all cases, until the court
made some order changing the custody, either for the care
or security of the prisoner, or founded on the illegality of
his commitment, the original custody continued. In this
case no such order was made. It might as well be said,
when a child is left in possession of his father after a hearing
on habeas corpus seeking to get him out of it, that the father
holds his child by judgment of the court, as here that the
prisoner is in General Granger's custody byjudgment of the
Circuit Court. In the case of the child, the father holds the
child in virtue of his parental right, which the court perceiving, has asserted. So in the case of the petitioner, the
court has simply let him alone; left him where it found him.
This being the case, the writ will not lie; for certainly this
City of Galena v. Amy, 5 Wallace, 705.

Dec. 1868.]

EX PARTE YERGER.
Agument against jurisdiction.

pourt cannot exercise appellate control over the proceeding
of a military commission.
The decision In re Jaine has no bearing. The refusal was
on merits. Any admission or assertion of jurisdiction in
such a case is of no value. Some judges are fond of dicta
and irrelative assertion and argument. When denying an
application on merits, they will concede that they have jurisdiction, and vice versd. But the point adjudged is the only
matter of value, and In re Kaine, this point was, that the
case was without merits. Mletzger's case,* on the other hand,
seems much in point. It was the case of an application for
the writ by a prisoner committed to the custody of the
marshal by the district judge, at his chambers, under the
French treaty of extradition.
This court refused the writ on the ground that there is no
form in which an appellate power can be exercised by it over
the proceedings of a district judge at his chambers. The
court say: "He exercises a special authority, and the law
has made no provision for the revision of his judgment. It
cannot be brought before the District or Circuit Court; consequently, cannot, in the nature of au appeal, be brought
before this court. The exercise of an original jurisdiction
only could reach such a proceeding, and this has not been
given by Congress, if they have the power to confDr it."
The habeas corpus issued with the certiorarias an adjunct
to the appellate power, is only permitted where the custody
of the prisoner is an essential part of the judgment or decree
from which the appeal is taken.
The repeal by the statute of March 27th, 1868, of so much
of the act of February 5th, 1867, as granted appellate power
to this court in cases of this nature, was intended and should
be copstrued as taking away, not the whole appellate power
in cases of habeas corpus, but the appellate power in cases to
which that act applied. It did not mean merely to substitute
a cumbrous and inconvenient form of remedy for a direct
and simple one.t
* 5 Howard, 176

+ Ex parte M cCardle, 7 "Wallace, 506.

Ex

PARTE YERGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Beply.-l. The prisoner was in the custody of General
Granger. The habeas corpus below took him out of that
custody. He went into the custody of the court; the custody
was changed into its charge completely. If the court had
liberated him, would he not have been liberated by decree
of the court? Why, when instead of being liberated, he is
sent away into the custody of General Granger, is he not so
sent by decree of the court? If General Granger were sued
by Yerger for false imprisonment, could not, and would not
the order of remand be pleaded in bar? In all cases of
judicial decree, the decree does but pronounce an old right
valid, and continue an original title. A. sues B. to recover
land which B. and his ancestors for generations have owned
and been possessed of. The court gives judgment for B.
Does B. not hold the land by decree of the court? Yet the
court has only left him where lie was. Perceiving a right to
it, the court has asserted it. The case of Kaine was subsequent to that of Metzger, and a peculiar case at best, and
controls it.
2. The argument of the Attorney-General confounds
"appeal," a specific fbrm of remedy given by the act of
1867, with "appellate power," which existed in another
form, and was conferred by a prior act. But after all, it
only asks that the appellate power may be considered as repealed in cases to which that act (the act of 1867) applied.
But this act is more comprehensive than any act whatever.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The argument, by the direction of the court, was confined
to the single point of the jurisdiction of the court to issue
the writ prayed ibr. We have carefully considered the
reasonings which have been addressed to us, and I am now
to state the conclusions to which we have come.
The general question of jurisdiction in this case resolves
itself necessarily into two other questions:
1. Has the court jurisdiction, in a case like the present, to
inquire into the cause of detention, alleged to be unlawful,
and to give relief, if the detention be found to be in fact

Dec. 1868.]

EX PARTE YERGER.
Opinion of the court.

unlawful, by the writ of habeas corpus, under the Judiciary
Act of 1789?
2. If, under that act, the court possessed this jurisdiction,
has it been taken away by the second section of the act of
March, 27, 1868,* repealing so much of the act of February
5, 1867,t as authorizes appeals from Circuit Courts to the
Supreme Court?
Neither of these questions is new here. The first has, on
several occasions, received very full consideration, and very
deliberate judgment.
A cause, so important as that which now invokes the
action of this court, seems however to justify a reconsideration of the grounds upon which its jurisdiction has been
heretofore maintained.
The great writ of habeas corpus has been for centuries esteemed the best and only sufficient defence of personal
freedom.
In England, after a long struggle, it was firmly guaranteed
by the famous Habeas Corpus Act. of May 27, 1679,1 "for
the better securing of the liberty of the subject," which, as
Blackstone says, "is frequently considered as another Magna
Charta."ยง
It was brought to America by the colonists, and claimed
as among the immemorial rights descended to them from
their ancestors.
Naturally, therefore, when the confederated colonies became united States, and the formation of a common government engaged their deliberations in convention, this great
writ found prominent sanction in the Constitution. That
sanction is in these words:
"The privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be
suspended unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion the
public safety may require it."
The terms of this provision necessarily imply judicial
action. In England, all the higher courts were open to ap4

t 14 Id. 385.
15 Stat. at Large, 44.
3 British Stat. at Large, 897; 3 Hallam's Constitutional History, 19.
3 Commentary, 135.

Ex

PARTE YERGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court

plicants for the writ, and it is hardly supposable that, under
the new government, founded on more liberal ideas and
principles, any court would be, intentionally, closed to them.
We find, accordingly, that the first Congress under the
Constitution, after defining, by various sections of the act
of September 24, 1789, thejurisdiction of the District Courts,
the Circuit Courts, and the Supreme Court in other cases,
proceeded, in the 14th section, to enact, "that all the beforementioned courts of the United States shall have power to
issue writs of scire Jacias, habeas corpus, and all other writs,
not specially provided by statute, which may be necessary
for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles and usages of law."* In the same
section, it was further provided "that either of the Justices
of the Supreme Court, as well as Judges of the District
Courts, shall have power to grant writs of habeas corpus for
the purpose of an inquiry into the cause of commitment;
provided that writs of habeas corpus shall in no case extend
to prisoners in jail, unless they are in custody, under, or by
color of the authority of the United States, or are committed for trial before some court of the same, or are necessary to be brought into court to testify."
That this court is one of the courts to which the power to
issue writs of habeas corpus is expressly given by the terms
of this section has never been questioned. It would have
been, indeed, a remarkable anomaly if this court, ordained
by the Constitution for the exercise, in the United States, of
the most important powers in civil cases of all the highest
courts of England, had been denied, under a constitution
which absolutely prohibits the suspension of the writ, except
under extraordinary exigencies, that power in cases of alleged
unlawful restraint, which the Habeas Corpus Act of Charles
II expressly declares those courts to possess.
But the power vested in this court is, in an important
particular, unlike that possessed by the English courts. The
jurisdiction of this court is conferred by the Constitution,
* 1 Stat. at Large, 81.

Dec. 1868.]

Ex

97.

PARTE YERGER.

Opinion of the court.

and is appellate;.whereas, that of the English courts, though
declared and defined by statutes, is derived from the common
law, and is original.
The judicial power of the United States extends to all
cases in law and equity arising under the Constitution, the
laws of the United States, and treaties made under their
authority, and to large classes of cases determined by the
character of the parties, or the nature of the controversy.
That part of this judicial power vested in this court is
defined by the Constitution in these words:
"In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers,
and consuls, and those in which a State shall be a party, the
Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction. In all the
other cases before mentioned, the Supreme Court shall have
appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such
exceptions, and under such regulations as the Congress shall
make."

t

If the question were a new one, it would, perhaps, deserve
inquiry whether Congress might not, under the power to
make exceptions from this appellate jurisdiction, extend the
original jurisdiction to other cases than those expressly enumerated in the Constitution; and especially, in view of the
constitutional guaranty of the writ of habeas corpus, to cases
arising upon petition for that writ.
But, in the case of Marbury v. Madison,* it was determined, upon full consideration, that the power to issue writs
of mandamus, given to this court by the 13th section of the
Judiciary Act, is, under the Constitution, an appellate jurisdiction, to be exercised only in the revision of judicial
decisions. And this judgment has ever since been accepted
as fixing the construction of this part of the Constitution.

It was pronounced in 1803. In 1807 the same construction was given to the provision of the 14th section relating
to the writ of habeas corpus, in the case of Bollman and
Swartwout.t
The power to issue the writ had been previously exercised
U

t 4 Id. 100.

* 1 Cranch, 137.

VOL. VYI.

7

o

0

98

Ex

[Sup. Ct.

PARTE, YERGER.

Opinion of the court.

in Hamilton's case* (1795), and in Burford's caset (1806), in
neither of which cases does the distinction between appellate
and original jurisdiction appear to have been made.
In the case of Bollman and Swarwout, however, the point
was brought distinctly before the court; the nature of the
jurisdiction was carefully examined, and it was declared to
be appellate. The question then determined has not since
been drawn into controversy.
The doctrine of the Constitution and of the cases thus far
may be summed up in these propositions:
(1.) The original jurisdiction of this court cannot be extended by Congress to any other cases than those expressly
defined by the Constitution.
(2.) The appellate jurisdiction of this court, conferred by
the Constitution, extends to all other cases within the judicial power of the United States.
(3.) This appellate jurisdiction is subject to such exceptions, and must be exercised under such regulations as Congress, in the exercise of its discretion, has made or may see
fit to make.
(4.) Congress not only has not excepted writs of habeas
corpus and mandamus from this appellate jurisdiction, but
has expressly provided for the exercise of this jurisdiction
by means of these writs.
We come, then, to consider the first great question made
in the case now before us.
We shall assume, upon the authority of the decisions referred to, what we should hold were the question now for
the first time presented to us, that in a proper case this court,
under the act of 1789, and under all the subsequent acts,
giving jurisdiction in cases of habeas corpus, may, in the exercise of its appellate power, revise the decisions of inferior
courts of the United States, and relieve from unlawful imprisonment authorized by them, except in cases within some
limitations of the jurisdiction by Congress.
It remains to inquire whether the case before us is a
*

*

als

7

Dallas, 17.

-8Oac,48
t3

Cranch, 448.

Dec. 1868.]

EX PARTE YERGER.
Opinion of the court.

proper one for such interposition. Is it within any such
limitation ? In other words, can this court inquire into the
lawfulness of detention, and relieve from it if found unlawful, when the detention complained of is not by civil authority under a commitment made by an inferior court, but
by military officers, for trial before a military tribunal, after
an examination into the cause of detention by the inferior
court, resulting in an'order remanding the prisoner to custody ?
It was insisted in argument that, "to bring a case within
thetppellate,jurisdiction of this court in the sense requisite
to enable it to award the writ of habeas corpus under the Judiciary Act, it is necessary that the commitment should appear to have been by a tribunal whose decisions are subject
to revision by this court."
This proposition seems to assert, not only that the decision to be revised upon habeas corpus must have.been made
by a court of the United States, subject to the ordinary appellate jurisdiction of this court, but that having been so
made, it must have resulted in an order of commitment to
civil authority subject to the control of the court making it.
The first branch of this proposition has certainly some.
support in .Metzger's case,* in which it was held that an order
of commitment made by a district judge at chambers cannot
be revised here by habeas corpus. This case, as was observed
by Mr. Justice Nelson in Kaine's case,t stands alone; and it
may admit of question whether it can be entirely reconciled
with the proposition, which we regard as established upon
principle and authority, that the appellate jurisdiction by
habeas corpus extends to all cases of commitment by the judicial authority of the United States, not within any exception made by Congress.
But it is unnecessary to enter upon this inquiry here.
The action which we are asked to revise was that of a tribunal whose decisions are subject to revision by this court
in ordinary modes.
*5 Howard, 176.

t- 14 lb. 103.

Ex

PARTE YERGER.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

We need consider, therefore, only the second branch of
the proposition, namely, that the action of the inferior court
must have resulted in a commitment for trial in a civil
court; and the inference drawn from it, that no relief can
be had here, by habeas corpus, from imprisonment under military authority, to which the petitioner may have been remanded by such a court.
This proposition certainly is not supported by authority.
In Kaine's case all the judges, except one, asserted, directly
or indirectly, the jurisdiction of this court to give relief in
a case where the detention was by order of a United States
commissioner. The lawfulness of the detention had been
examined by the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York upon a writ of habeas corpus, and that court had
dismissed the writ and remanded the prisoner to custody.
In this court relief was denied on the merits, but the jurisdiction was questioned by one judge only. And it is difficult to find any substantial ground upon which jurisdiction
in that case can be affirmed, and in this denied.
In Wells's case,* the petitioner was confined in the penitentiary, under a sentence of death, commuted by the President into a sentence of imprisonment for life. He obtained
a writ of habeas corpus from the Circuit Court of the District
of Columbia, was brought before that court, and was remanded to custody. He then sued out a writ of habeas corpus from this court, and his case was fully considered here.
No objection was taken to the jurisdiction, though there, as
here, it was evident that the actual imprisonment, at the
time of the petition for the writ, was -ot under the direction
of the court by whose order the prisoner was remanded, but
by a different and distinct authority.
In this case of Wells, Mr. Justice Curtis again dissented,
and, on the point of jurisdiction, Mr. Justice Campbell concurred with him. The other judges, though all, except one,
were of opinion that the relief asked must be denied, agreed
in maintaining the jurisdiction of the court. Judge Curtis,
18 Howard, 308.

Dec. 1868.]

DEX PARTE YERGER.
Opinion of the court.

who regarded the question as left undetermined in Kaine's
case, admitted that the jurisdiction was asserted in this, and
stated the ground of judgment affirming jurisdiction to be
that, "as the Circuit Court had had the prisoner before it,
and has remanded him, this court, by a writ of habeas corpus,
may examine that decision and see whether it be erroneous
or not."
Since this judgment was pronounced, the jurisdiction, in
cases similar to that now before the court, has not hitherto
been questioned.
We have carefully considered the argument against it,
made in this case, and are satisfied that the doctrine heretofore maintained is sound.
The great and leading intent of the Constitution and the
law must be kept constantly in view upon the examination
of every question of construction.
That intent, in respect to the writ of habeas corpus, is manifest. It is that every citizen may be protected by judicial
action from unlawful imprisonment. To this end the act
of 1789 provided that every court of the United States should
have power to issue the writ. The jurisdiction thus given
in law to the Circuit and District Courts is original; that
given by the Constitution and the law to this court is appellate. Given in general terms, it must necessarily extend to
all cases to which the judicial power of the United States
extends, other than those expressly excepted from it.
As limited by the act of 1789, it did not extend to cases
of imprisonment after conviction, under sentences of competent tribunals; nor to prisoners in jail, unless in custody
under or by color of the aqthority of the United States, or
committed for trial before some court of the United States,
or required to be brought into court to testify. But this
limitation has been gradually narrowed, and the benefits of
the writ have been extended, first in 1833,* to prisoners confined under any authority, whether State or National, for
any act done or omitted in pursuance of a law of the United
* 4 Stat. at Large, 634.

102

Ex

[Sup. Ct.

PARTE YERGER.

Opinion of the court.

States, or of any order, process, or decree of any judge or
court of the United States; then in 1842* to prisoners being
subjects or citizens of foreign States, in custody under National or State authority for acts done or omitted by or under
color of foreign authority, and alleged to be valid under the
law of nations; and finally, in 1867,t to all cases where any
person may be restrained of liberty in violation of the Constitution, or of any treaty or law of the United States.
This brief statement shows how the general spirit and
genius of our institutions has tended to the widening and
enlarging of the habeas corpus jurisdiction of the courts and
judges of the United States; and this tendency, except in
one recent instance, has been constant and uniform; and it
is in the light of it that we must determine the true meaning of the Constitution and the law in respect to the appellate jurisdiction of this court. We are not at liberty to except from it any cases not plainly excepted by law; and we
think it sufficiently appears from what has been said that no
exception to this jurisdiction embraces such a case as that
now before the court. On the contrary, the case is one of
those expressly declared not to be excepted from the general
grant of jurisdiction. For it is a case of imprisonment alleged to be unlawful, and to be under color of authority of
the United States.
It seems to be a necessary consequence that if the appellate jurisdiction of habeas corpus extends to any case, it extends to this. It is unimportant in what custody the prisoner
may be, if it is a custody to which he has been remanded
by the order of an inferior court of the United States. It
is proper to add, that we are not aware of anything in any
act of Congress, except the act of 1868, which indicates any
intention to withhold appellate jurisdiction in habeas corpus
cases from this court, or to abridge the jurisdiction derived
from the Constitution and defined by the act of 1789. We
agree that it is given subject to exception and regulation by
Congress; but it is too plain for argument that the denial
* 5 Stat. at Large, 539.

- 14 Id. 385.

Dec. 1868.]

EX PARTE YEPVGER.
Opinion of the court.

to this court of appellate jurisdiction in this class of cases
must greatly weaken the efficacy of the writ, deprive the
citizen in many cases of its benefits, and seriously hinder
the establishment of that uniformity in deciding upon questions of personal rights which can only be attained through
appellate jurisdiction, exercised upon the decisions of courts
of original jurisdiction. In the particular class of cases, of
which that before the court is an example, when the custody
to which the prisoner is remanded is that of some autho'rity
other than that of the remanding court, it is evident that
the imprisoned citizen, however unlawful his imprisonment
may be in fact, is wholly without remedyunless it be found
in the appellate jurisdiction of this court.
These considerations forbid any construction giving to
doubtful words the effect of withholding or abridging this
jurisdiction. They would strongly persuade against the
denial of the jurisdiction even were the reasons for affirming
it less cogeut than they are.
We are obliged to hold, therefore, that in all cases where
a Circuit Court of the United States has, in the exercise of
its original jurisdiction, caused a prisoner to be brought
before it, and has, after inquiring into the cause of detention, remanded him to the custody from which he was taken,
this court, in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction, may,
by the writ of habeas corpus, aided by the writ of certiorari,
revise the decision of the Circuit Court, and if it be found
unwarranted by law, relieve the prisoner from the unlawful
restraint to which he has been remanded.
This conclusion brings us to the inquiry whether the 2d
section of the act of March 27th, 1868, takes away or aftects
the appellate jurisdiction of this court under the Constitution
and the acts of Congress prior to 1867.
In McCardle's case,* we expressed the opinion that it does
not, and we have now re-examined the grounds of that opinion.
The circumstances under which the act of 1868 was passed
were peculiar.
* 7 Wallace, 508.

EX PARTE "ERGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

On the 5th of February, 1867, Congress passed the act
to which reference has already been made, exfending the
original jurisdiction by habeas corpus of the District and Circuit Courts, and of the several judges of these courts, to all
cases of restraint of liberty in violation of the Constitution,
treaties, or laws of the United States. This act authorized
appeals to this court from judgments of the Circuit Court,
but did not repeal any previous act conferring jurisdiction
by habeas corpus, unless by implication.
Under this act, one McCardle, alleging unlawful restraint
by military force, petitioned the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of Mississippi for the writ of habeas corpus.
The writ was issued, and a return was made; and, upon
hearing, the court decided that the restraint was lawful, and
remanded him to custody. McCardle prayed an appeal,
under the act, to this court, which was allowed and perfected. A motion to dismiss the appeal was made here and
denied. The case was then argued at the bar, and the argument having been concluded on the 9th of March, 1869, was
taken under advisement by the court. While the cause was
thus held, and before the court had time to consider the decision proper to be made, the repealing act under consideration was introduced into Congress. It was carried through
both houses, sent to the President, returned with his objections, repassed by the constitutional majority in each house,
and became a law on the 27th of March, within eighteen
days after the conclusion of the argument.
The effect of the act was to oust the court of its jurisdiction of the particular case then before it on appeal, and it is
not to be doubted that such was the effect intended. Nor
will it be questioned that legislation of this character is
unusual and hardly to be justified except upon some imperious public exigency.
It was, doubtless, within the constitutional discretion of
Congress to determine whether such an exigency existed;
but it is not to be presumed that an act, passed under such
circumstances, was intended to have any further effect than
that plainly apparent from its terms.

.Dec. 1868.]

EX PARTE YERGER.
Opinion of the court.

It is quite clear that the words of the act reach, not only
all appeals pending, but all future appeals to this court
under the act of 1867; but they appear to be limited to
appeals taken under that act.
The word' of the repealing section are, "that so much of
the act approved February 5th, 1867, as authorizes an appeal,
from the judgment of the Circuit Court to the Supreme Court
of the United States, or the exercise of any such jurisdiction
by said Supreme Court on appeals which have been, or may
be hereafter taken, be, and the same is hereby repealed."
These words are not of doubtful interpretation. They
repeal only so much of the act of 1867 as authorized appeals, or the exercise of appellate jurisdiction by this court.
They affected only appeals and appellate jurisdiction authorized by that act. They do not purport to touch the appellate
jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution, or to except from
it any cases not excepted by the act of 1789, They reach
no act except the act of 1867.
It has been suggested, however, that the act of 1789, so
far as it provided for the issuing of writs of habeas corpus
by this court, was already repealed by the act of 1867. We
have already observed that there are no repealing words in
the act of 1867. If it repealed the act of 1789, it did so by
implication, and any implication which would give to it this
effect upon the act of 1789, would give it the same effect
upon the acts of 1833 and 1842. If one was repealed, all
were repealed.
Repeals by.implication are not favored. They are seldom
admitted except on the ground of repugnancy; and never,
we think, when the former act can stand together with the
new act. It is true that exercise of appellate jurisdiction,
under the act of 1789, was less convenient than under the
act of 1867, but the provision of a new and more convenient
mode of its exercise does not necessarily take away the old;
and that this effect was not intended is indicated by the fact
that the authority conferred by the new act is expressly declared to be "in addition" to the authority conferred by the
former acts. Addition is not substitution.

106

Ex PARTE YERGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The appeal given by the act of 1867 extended, indeed, to
cases within the former acts; and the act, by its grant of
additional authority, so enlarged the jurisdiction by habeas
corpus that it seems, as was observed in the McCardle case,
"impossible to widen" it. But this efict does not take
from the act its character of an additional grant of jurisdiction, and make it operate as a repeal of jurisdiction theretofore allowed.
Our conclusion is, that none of the acts prior to 1867,
authorizing this court to exercise appellate jurisdiction by
means of the writ of habeas corpus, were repealed by the act
of that year, and that the repealing section of the act of
1868 is lihited in terms, and must be limited in effect to the
appellate jurisdiction authorized by the act of 1867.
We could come to no other conclusion without holding
that'the whole appellate jurisdiction of this court, in cases
of habeas corpus, conferred by the Constitution, recognized
by law, and exercised from the foundation of the government hitherto, has been taken away, without the expression
of such intent, and by mere implication, through the operation of the acts of 1867 and 1868.
The suggestion made at the bar, that the provision of the
act of 1789, relating to the jurisdiction of this court by habeas corpus, if repealed by the effect of the act of 1867, was
revived by the repeal of the repealing act, has not escaped
our consideration. We are inclined to think that such would
be the effect of the act of 1868, but having come to the
conclusion that the act of 1789 was not repealed by the act
of 1867, it is not necessary to express an opinion on that
point.
The argument having been confined, by direction of the
court, to the question of jurisdiction, this opinion is limited
to that question. The jurisdiction of the court to issue the
writ prayed for is affirmed.

