UNITED STATES v. KOECHER
Per Curiam

UNITED STATES v. KOECHER
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT
No. 84-1922.

Argued January 15, 1986-Decided February 25, 1986

755 F. 2d 1022, vacated and remanded.

Christopher J. Wright argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the briefs were Solicitor General
Fried, Assistant Attorney General Trott, Deputy Solicitor
General Frey, and Andrew J. Pincus.
Gerard E. Lynch argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were George Kannar and Charles S. Sims.
PER CURIAM.

The judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit is vacated, and the case is remanded to
the United States District Court for the Southern District of
New York with instructions to dismiss the cause as moot.

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Syllabus

475 U. S.

TEXAS v. McCULLOUGH
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF TEXAS
No. 84-1198.

Argued December 10, 1985-Decided February 26, 1986

Respondent was tried before a jury in a Texas District Court and convicted
of murder. He elected to be sentenced by the jury, as was his right
under Texas law, and the jury imposed a 20-year sentence. The trial
judge then granted respondent's motion for a new trial on the basis of
prosecutorial misconduct. Respondent was retried before a jury, with
the same trial judge presiding, and again was found guilty. This time he
elected to have the judge fix his sentence, and she imposed a 50-year
sentence. To justify the longer sentence, the judge entered the following findings of fact: the testimony of two state witnesses who had not
testified at the first trial added to the credibility of the State's key witness and detracted from the credibility of respondent and a defense witness; the two new witnesses' testimony directly implicated respondent in
the commission of the murder and shed new light upon his life and conduct; and it was learned for the first time on retrial that respondent had
been released from prison only four months before the murder. The
Texas Court of Appeals reversed and sentenced respondent to 20 years'
imprisonment, considering itself bound by North Carolinav. Pearce,395
U. S. 711, wherein it was held that the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment prevented increased sentences on retrial when the
increase was motivated by the sentencing judge's vindictiveness, and
that to show the absence of vindictiveness the reasons for imposing the
increased sentence must affirmatively appear. The Texas Court of
Criminal Appeals, while holding that, as a matter of procedure, the case
should have been remanded to the trial judge for resentencing, also held
that under Pearce vindictiveness must be presumed even though a jury
had fixed punishment at the first trial and a judge had fixed it at the second trial.
Held: The Due Process Clause was not violated by the trial judge's imposition of a greater sentence on retrial. Pp. 137-144.
(a) The facts of this case provide no basis for a Pearce presumption of
vindictiveness. In contrast to Pearce, respondent's second trial came
about because the trial judge herself concluded that the prosecutor's misconduct required it. Granting respondent's motion for a new trial hardly
suggests any vindictiveness on the judge's part toward him. The presumption is also inapplicable because different sentencers assessed the

