OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Per Curiam.

370 U. S.

TAYLOR ET AL. v. LOUISIANA.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 773.

Decided June 4, 1962.

Six Negroes were convicted in a state court of violating Louisiana's
breach-of-the-peace statute and were fined and sentenced to jail.
Four of them went into a waiting room customarily reserved for
white people at a bus depot and, when requested by police to
leave, they refused to do so, claiming that they were interstate
passengers. The other two were arrested while sitting nearby in
the automobile which had brought the six to the bus station.
There was no evidence of violence; but the trial court said that
the mere presence of Negroes in a white waiting room was likely to
give rise to a breach of the peace and was sufficient evidence of
guilt. It held that four had violated the breach-of-the-peace statute and that the other two had counseled and procured them to do
so. Held: Since the only evidence to support the charge was that
the defendants were violating a custom that segregated people in
waiting rooms according to their race, a practice not allowed by
federal law in interstate transportation facilities, the judgments are
reversed. Pp. 154-156.
Reversed.

Carl Rachlin and Judith P. Vladeck for petitioners.

Jack P. F. Gremillion, Attorney General of Louisiana,
and M. E. Culligan, Assistant Attorney General, for
respondent.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioners, six Negroes, were convicted of violating

Louisiana's breach-of-the-peace statute, La. Rev. Stat.,
1950, ยง 14:103.1,' and were given fines and jail terms by
1In relevant part, ยง 14:103.1 provides: "A. Whoever with intent
to provoke a breach of the peace, or under circumstances such that
a breach of the peace may be occasioned thereby: (1) crowds or congregates with others . . . in or upon . . . any . . . public place or

TAYLOR v. LOUISIANA.
154

Per Curiam.

the state court. The Louisiana Supreme Court declined
to review their convictions, and the case is here on petition for a writ of certiorari which we have granted.
Four of the six petitioners went into the waiting room
customarily reserved for white people at the Trailways
Bus Depot in Shreveport, Louisiana, in order to take a
bus to Jackson, Mississippi. The Chief of Police of
Shreveport approached the four and asked them why
they were in the station. They told him they were interstate passengers and wished to purchase tickets and obtain
travel information. The Chief told them they could do
this in the colored waiting room and ordered them to move
on. When the four refused to leave, stating again that
they were interstate passengers and asserting their rights
under federal law, they were ordered to leave or be
arrested. The spokesman of the group then said, "We
have no choice; go ahead and arrest us." The police
thereupon arrested the four of them. The other two petitioners were then arrested, while sitting nearby in the
automobile which had brought the six to the bus station.
At the trial there was testimony that immediately upon
petitioners' entry into the waiting room many of the
people therein became restless and that some onlookers
climbed onto seats to get a better view. Nevertheless,
respondent admits these persons moved on when ordered
to do so by the police. There was no evidence of violence. The record shows that the petitioners were quiet,
orderly, and polite. The trial court said, however, that
the mere presence of Negroes in a white waiting room was
likely to give rise to a breach of the peace. It held the
mere presence of the Negroes in the waiting room, as part
building . . . and wl4o fails or refuses to disperse and move on, or
disperse or move on, when ordered so to do by any law enforcement
officer of any municipality .

.

. in which such act or acts are com-

mitted, or by any law enforcement officer of the state of Louisiana ...
shall be guilty of disturbing the peace."

OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Per Curiam.

370 U. S.

of a preconceived plan, was sufficient evidence of guilt.
It accordingly held that the four had violated the state
breach-of-the-peace statute and that the other two had
counseled and procured the others to commit the crime.
Here, as in Garner v. Louisiana,368 U. S. 157, the only
evidence to support the charge was that petitioners were
violating a custom that segregated people in waiting
rooms according to their race, a practice not allowed in
interstate transportation facilities by reason of federal
law.2 Boynton v. Virginia, 364 U. S. 454, 459-460. And
see Mayor & City Council of Baltimore v. Dawson, 350
U. S. 877 (public beaches); Holmes v. City of Atlanta,350
U. S. 879 (municipal golf courses); Gayle v. Browder,
352 U. S. 903 (bus); New Orleans Park Assn. v. Detiege,
358 U. S. 54 (municipal golf course and park). The judgments of conviction must therefore be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN would grant certiorari and set the
case for argument.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

took no part in the con-

sideration or decision of this case.

2

"That there exists a serious and difficult problem arising from a

feeling of race hostility which the law is powerless to control, and to

which it must give a measure of consideration, may be freely admitted.
But its solution cannot be promoted by depriving citizens of their
constitutional rights and privileges." Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U. S.
60, 80-81.

