SUNKIST v. WINCKLER & SMITH CO.

19

Syllabus.

SUNKIST GROWERS, INC., ET AL. V. WINCKLER &
SMITH CITRUS PRODUCTS CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 241.

Argued March 21-22, 1962.--Decided May 28, 1962.

A group of citrus fruit growers in California and Arizona organized
local cooperative associations which joined together for the purpose
of collectively marketing their fruit through the agency of an areawide marketing cooperative and two processing cooperatives.
Respondents sued petitioners, the areawide cooperative and one of
the processing cooperatives, for treble damages under § 4 of the
Clayton Act, claiming that they had conspired with the other
processing cooperative and two privately owned processing corporations to restrain and monopolize interstate trade in citrus fruit
and by-products and had actually monopolized the same, in violation of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. Held: In view of the
exemption from the antitrust laws accorded to agricultural cooperatives by § 6 of the Clayton Act and § 1 of the Capper-Volstead
Act, 7 U. S. C. § 291, a judgment based on a general verdict against
petitioners, which may have rested on a finding of an unlawful
conspiracy among the three cooperatives, must be reversed. Pp.
20-30.
(a) The instructions in this case left it open for the jury to
base its verdict on a finding of a conspiracy among the marketing
cooperative and the two processing cooperatives. Pp. 25-26.
(b) On the record in this case it cannot be said that petitioners
waived their objection to these instructions. Pp. 26-27.
(c) In view of the provisions of § 6 of the Clayton Act and § 1
of the Capper-Volstead Act, the three legal entities formed by
these growers for the purpose of processing and marketing their
agricultural products cooperatively cannot be considered independent parties for the purposes of the conspiracy provisions of
§§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. Pp. 27-29.
(d) Where one of several theories submitted to a jury is held
erroneous, a general verdict must be reversed, as it may have
rested on the erroneous theory. Pp. 29-30.
284 F. 2d 1, reversed and cause remanded.

