SEELIG v. UNITED STATES.
370 U. S.

Per Curiam.

SEELIG v. UNITED STATES.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 841, Misc.

Decided June 18, 1962.

Certiorari granted; judgment vacated and case remanded for reconsideration in the light of Ellis v. United States, 356 U. S. 674, and
Coppedge v. United States, 369 U. S. 438.

Petitioner pro se.
Solicitor General Cox, Assistant Attorney GeneralMarshall, Harold H. Greene and Howard A. Glickstein for the
United States.
PER CURIAM.

In accordance with the suggestion of the Solicitor
General and upon consideration of the entire record, the
motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the
petition for writ of certiorari are granted. The judgment
is vacated and the case is remanded for reconsideration
in the light of Ellis v. United States, 356 U. S. 674, and
Coppedge v. United States, 369 U. S. 438.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

took no part in the con-

sideration or decision of this case.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Syllabus.

370 U. S.

BROWN SHOE CO., INC., v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN

No. 4.

DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Argued December 6, 1961.-Decided June 25, 1962.

The Government brought suit to enjoin consummation of a merger
of two corporations, on the ground that its effect might be sbstantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in
the production, distribution and sale of shoes, in violation of ยง 7
of the Clayton Act, as amended in 1950. The District Court found
that the merger would increase concentration in the shoe industrv,
both in manufacturing and retailing, eliminate one of the corporations as a substantial competitor in the retail field, and establish a manufacturer-retailer relationship which vould deprive all
but the top firms in the industry of a fair opportunity to compete,
and that, therefore, it probably would result in a further :ubstantial
lessening of competition and an increased tendency towardimonopoly. It enjoined appellant from having or acquiring any further
interest in the business, stock, or assets of the other corporation,
required full divestiture by appellant of the other corporation's
stock and assets, and ordered appellant to propose in the immediate
future a plan for carrying into effect the Court's order of divestiture. Held: The judgment is affirmed. Pp. 296-346.
1. The District Court's judgment was a "final" judgment within
the meaning of ยง 2 of the Expediting Act, and this Court has jurisdiction of this direct appeal under that Act. Pp. 304-311.
2. The legislative history of the 1950 amendments to ยง 7 of the
Clayton Act indicates that Congres.z provided no definite quantitative or qualitative tests by which enforcement agencies were to
gauge the effects of a given merger, but rather tha:t Congress
intended that a variety of economic and other factors be considered
in determining whether the merger was consistent with niaintaining competition in the industry in which the merging conipalics
operated. Pp. 311-323.
3. The record supports the District Court's findings and its conclusion that the shoe industry is being subjected to a cunmulative
series of vertical mergers which, if left unchecked, may substantially lessen competition, within the meaning of ยง 7, as amended.
Pp. 323-334.

