OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

ments, held that the fund in the hands of the assignee
was not garnishable. And the supreme court, approving
that decision and disapproving one to the contrary announced by the court of civil appeals for the sixth district,
Johnson v. ChapmanMilling Co., 37 S. W. (2d) 776, held
that "the questions at issue have been definitely settled
by this court in the cases of" Patty-Joiner& Eubank Co.
v. Cummins, supra., and Haijek & Simecek v. Luck, supra.
Accepting as we do that court's construction of the provisions in question, we are of opinion that they are not
repugnant to the Bankruptcy Act. This case is ruled by
our decision in Pobreslo v. JoSeph M. Boyd Co., ante,
Judgment affirmed.
p. 518.
AETNA LIFE INSURANCE CO. ET AL. v. MOSES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

*No. 137. Argued December 8, 1932-Decided'January 9, 1933.
1. Under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation
Act,--made applicable to the District of Columbia as a workmen's
compensation law-where an employee is killed in the course of his
employment by .the negligence of a stranger, and the administratrix, being also the sole beneficiary, accepts compensation, there is
an implied "statutory assignment to the employer of her cause of
action for the negligence under ihe District death statute. P. 537.
2. In such case the Compensation Act by implication gives the employer the same control over the institution of the death action, the
compromise and settlement of the claim against the wrongdoer, and
th6 disposition of the proceeds, as it gives where the injury results
only in disability. P. 538.
3. Although: the Compensation Act does not say that the action for
wrongful death may be brought in the name of the employer, this
is implied in its purpose to effect a complete tiansfer of the cause of
action, notwithstanding that the common law rule against actions
in the names of assignees of choses in action survives in the forum.
P. 540.

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOSES.
Argument for .Petitioners.

4.-An insurer under the Compensation Act, though required to pay
an award directly, is nevertheless an indemnitor and, to the extent
that it has paid, is entitled to be subrogated to the employer's right
of recovery against third persons. P. 541.
5. The employer, being directed by the Act to distribute the proceeds,
is the party to bring the action for wrongful death; and may show
that it is for the use of the insurer and of the widow and administratrix, according to their beneficial interests. P. 542.
6. Whether under Equity Rule 13 of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, the insurer and the widow-administratrix may
join in the action for wrongful death as legal plaintiffs, this Court
does not decide--it being a question of local practice. P. 543.
61 App. D. C.74, 57 F, (2d) 440, reversed.
CERTIORA

-*to review the affirmance of a judgment for

the defendant in an action for wrongful death. The trial
court stiuck the declaration for misjoinder of parties
plaintiff, and entered judgment for the defendants when
the plaintiffs elected to stand on the declaration.
Messrs. Charles W. Arth and Leonard J. Ganse for
petitioners.
The employer's liability is only contingent. He can
not sue in his own right: Red Wing v., Eichinger, 163
Minn.54. Unless the insurer may enforce its claim, any
action against the tort-feasor must fail.
The Compensation Act uses " carrier" and" employer"
synonymously. The insurer is under a direct obligation
to the injured employee. American Mut. Liability Ins.
Co. v. Patrick, 157 Tenn. 618, 621. Its assumption of all
liabilities and duties imposed on the erhployer implies
corresponding rights. , Sarberv. Aetna Life Ins. Co., 23 F.
( d) 434, cert. den., 277 U. S. 577.
The right of action passing to the employer by statutory assignment under § 33 (b) likewise passed to the
insurer by necessary imjlication when it paid the death
benefit awarded.
* See

Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Petitioners.

287 U.S.

As indemnit6r, the insurer hasa right of action against
the negligent third person. Travelers' Ins. Co. v. Great
Lakes Engineering Works, 184 Fed. 426; Workmen's Compensation Exchange v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co.,
45 F. (2d) 885. It also took a right of action a conventional subrogee under the terms of the policy. The Kokusai. Kisen Kabushiki Kaisha, 44 F. (2d) 659; Globe
Indemnity Go: v. Toye Bros. Auto Co., 14 La. App. 142.
The widow, having accepted the death benefit under
the Act, may not maintain an action in her own name,
although she has an interest as statutory cestii que trust
in any excess of recovery had against defendant (Hunt v.
Bank Line, 35 F. (2d) 136; The Aden Marns 51 F. (2d)
599, 600); and the employer may not maintain an action
in his own right because he has sustained no loss. Red
Wing v. Eichinger,.upra.
The Compensation Act, § 33, creates a new cause of
action, makes complete provision for all of its purposes,
and is not controlled or limited by the death statute in any
respect. Moore v. ChristiensonS. S. Co., 49 F. (2d) 807,
affirmed, 53 F. (2d) 299; Hyde v. Southern Ry. Co., 31
App. D. C. 466. See also Smith's Dock Co. v. John
Redhead & Sons, (1912) 2 K. B.-323.
The Compensation Act and the death statute are inconsistent. Limitations of time are different; causes of
action are different; beneficiaries are different; damages
are different; and the distribution of damages is different.
The rules of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia govern the form of action in this case and designate-who must or may be made parties herein. These
rules have the force of law. Judd & Detweller v. Gittings,
43 App. D. C. 304, 311; Murphy v. Gould, 39 App. D. C.
363,367. The insuref, and the widow, both personally and
as administratrix, are the real- parties in interest. The
employer has a direct but contingent liability. He should
sue as assignor to the 'use of the Insurance Company, his

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOSES.
530,

Argument for Respondent.

assignee. See McKenzie v. Missouri Stables, 34 S. W.
(2d) 136.
The technical niceties of pleading do not apply under
compensation acts. Clough & Molloy v. Shilling, 149 Md.
189. For variation in the manner of pleading parties
plaintiff in death actions similar to that here presented,
see Maryland Casualty Co. v. Union Bridge Co., 145 Md.
644; Stale Accident Fund v. New York, P. & N. R. Co.,
141 Md. 305; Bethlehem Steel Co. v. Raymond Concrete
Pile Co., 141 Md. 67; Kaufman v. United Rys. & Elec. Co.,
135 Md. 524.
Mr. H. Clay Espey, with whom Messrs. Merritt U.
Hayden lnd James O'D. Moran were on the brief, for
respondent.
The two legal plaintiffs.are-entitled to bring suit undef
any theory as assignees only.
The administrator or executor of the deceased is the
only proper party plaintiff in an action in the District of
Columbia against a third party whose negligence has
caused the death of the deceased. Fleming v. Capital
Traction Co., 40 App. D. C. 489; Ferguson v. Railroad
Co., 6 App. D. C. 525. Dist.: Hyde v. Southern'Ry., 31
App. D. C. 466.
The Compensation Act was designed principally to afford an adjustment of the rights and obligations of employers and employees, principally the latter; it was not
intended to disturb the liabilities of strangers to the emplqyment. , Silvia v. Scotten, 32 Del. 295, 299. It would*
be far-fetched to hold.that in view of the inconsistencies,
a'new cause of action arises against a negligent stranger
to the employment for the reimbursement of the 6mployer and-his insilrance carrier, where there is absolutely
no language. in the Compensation Act creating sich new
cause of action.

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Respondent.

287 U.S.

If the Act .creates such new cause of action, then the
third person would be subjected to a double liability for
such wrongful death: (1) under the Compensation Act;
and (2) under "Lord Campbell's Act."
The employer and the insurer are not proper legal parties plaintiff in this action. The defendant's liability is
entirely statutory, and therefore subject to the principle
that statutes in derogation of the common law are to be
strictly construed.
Although the Compensation Act assigns to the employer the right of the person entitled to compensation, it
nowhere gives him express authority to bring a suit in
his own name. An assignee may not sue in his own name
without special statutory authority. Glenn v. Marbury,
145 U. S, 499; Taylor v. Anderson, 275 U. S. 431; Metropolitan Coach Co. v. Freund, 42 App. D. C. 283; Commercial Nat'l Bank v. Consumers' Brewing Co., 16 App.
D. C. 186; Armstrong, Witworth & Co. v. Norton, 15 App.
D. C. 223.
The common law on this subject has been changed. in
the District of Columbia only to permit the assignee to
sue in his own name where a judgment or certain contract actions'are assigned. Unliquidated tort claims are
unmentioned.. This was done by Act of Congress of
March 3, 1901, D. C. Code, c. 11, §§ 431-434.
The insurer is not a proper legal plaintiff. The Act
makes no assignment to the insurer.. The assignment by
the subrogation clause in the policy would not permit the
insurer to sue in its own name. Glenn v. Marbury, supra.
Moreover an action for personal injuries is not assignable in the District. Lamont v. Washington & Georgetoum R. Co., 2 Mackey 502.
Even if a new cause of action is created-byjthe Compensation Act, it is none the less a cause of action for death
wrongfully caused by another and is not assignable.

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOSES.
530

Argument for Respondent.

Southern Pac. Co. v. Winton, .27 Tex. Civ. App. 503;
Marsh v. W. N. Y. & P. Ry. Co., 204 Pa. 229.
Neither the employer nor the insurer may be a proper
legal plaintiff under District of Columbia Supreme Court
Equity Rule No. 13. The rule merely states an established rule of equity practice, in force in the District before even assignees of contract claims could sud in their
own names at law. Young v. Kelly, 3 App. D. C. 296.
The statute permitting assignees of liquidated contract
claims to sue in their own names (D. C. Code, 1924, c. 11,
§§ 431-434), was not enacted until -1901. Before this
statute was passed, it was definitely established that no
assignee could sue in his own name at law. Glenn v. Marbury, supra. The Equity Rule was not intended for actions at law.. To hold that all plaintiffs in the present case
are properly joined by reason of Equity Rule No. 13 would
be to revolutionize the practice in the District.
By the Act of 1901, assignees of judgments and of liquidated contract claims were expressly authorized to sue
in their own name. By implication other types of claims
were excluded, A rule of court can not repeal a statute
or regulate a matter already regulated by statute. Hamnilton v. Foifiler, 83 Fed. 321, 326; Schnitzer v. Stein, 96
Ore. 343; Nissen v. Flaherty, 117 Me.. 534. A rule of
court can not be in .contravention of the common law or
the law as declared in numerous decisions of the court.
DeLorme v. Pease, 19 Ga. 220, 227; Huff v Shepperd, 58
Mo. 242, 246.
Wherever a state court permits an employer or insurance company to recover in its own name, the act makes
provision accordingly. SVvia v. Scotten, supra;Insurance
Co. v. Railways, 39 Cal. App. 388; Henderson Tel. & Tel.
Co. v. Owensboro Tel. & Tel. Co.,'192 Ky. 322; Texas &
P. R. Co. v. Archer, 203 S. W. 796; Jordanv. Orcutt, 181
N. E. 661.

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287U.S.

The widow as an individual and the insurance company
are not proper use plaintiffs. The administratrix is the
only proper legal .party plaintiff, and the employer may
be the only proper use plaintiff. See Luckey v. Union
Pac. Ry. Co., 117 Neb. 85.
MR.JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Roberts, an employee of petitioner Bralov?, was killed in
the course of his employment, by the alleged. negligence of
respondent. His widow, who was also his administratrix,
claimed and has accepted an award of compensation under
the Longshoremei's and Harbor Workers' Compensation
"Act (March 4,, 1927, c. 509, 44 Stat. 1924), made applicable as a workmen's compensation law in the District of
Columbia by Act of May 17, 1928, c. 612, 45 Stat. 600.
The award directed the employer and petitioner, The
Aetna Life Insurance Company, his insurer,1 to pay compensation to the widow in periodic installments, and the
expenses attendant upon the burial of the deceased.
The present suit was brought in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia on the theory that .the acceptance of compensation awarded under the statute operatedas an assignment of the administratrix's right to-pursue
the respondent for damages for the wrongful death, and
that the insurer succeeded to that right by subrogation:
The declaration named as plaintiffs petitioner The Aetna
Life Insurance Company, "in its own right and also to the
'Under the terms of the policy the insurer obligated itself to pay
all installments of compensation directly to the person entitled to
them "because of the obligation for compensation ... imposed
upon ... this Employer," as well as to indemnify the employer
against any loss by reason of his liability. The former provision is
required by §§ 35 and 36 of the statute "in order that the liability
for compensation imposed by this Act may be most effectively discharged by the employer, and in order that thie administration of
this Act in respect of such liability may be facilitated ... "

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOSES.
530

537

Opinion of the Court.

use of" the widow "in her own right and as administratrix," and petitioner Bralove "to the use of" the insurance
company. Respondent moved to strike the declaration
for misjoinder of parties plaintiff and causes of action.
The trial court sustained the motion on the first ground,
and, as petitioners elected* to stand on the declaration,
gave judgment for the respondent, which the-Court of
Appeals affirmed, 61 App. D. C. 74; 57 F. (2d) 440. This
Court granted certiorari.
Both courts below ruled that the administratrix is, by
the terms of the District death act (23 Stat. 307; D. C.
Code [1924], §§ 1301, 1302, 1303), the only proper plaintiff in an action for wrongful death, and that the Compensation Act, though it assigns -the cause of action for
the death, to the employer, upon acceptance of the
award, does not, under the common-law practice prevailing in the District, permit him to bring the suii in his
own name. The trial court further expresed the view
that the insurer was without any interest in the litigation, by way of subrogation, since the cause of action for
wrongful death is not assignable at common law, and the
Compensation Act confers on the insurer no rights analog6us to those given the employer. The question before
us is whether the Court of Appeals was right, and; if not,
whether the proper, parties have been designated as
plaintiffs;
Sections 7, 8 and 9 of the Compensation Act provide
for compensation .to the employee if he is injured, or to
certain of his dependents, if he is killed, in the- course of
his employment. Section 33 (a) provides that "if on
account of* a disability or death for which compensation
is payable . . . the person entitled to such compensation
determines that some person other than the. employer is
liable in damages, he may elect . . . to receive such compensation or to recover damages agginst such third person." By subsection (b) "Acceptance of such compen-

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

sation shall operate as an assignment to the employer
of all right of the person entitled to compensation to
recover damages against such third person," and by sub:section (d) the "employer on account, of such assignment
may either institute proceedings for the recovery of such
damages or may compromise with such third person."
But the cause of action against a third party which is
thus cast. upon the employer is not to be maintained
exclusively for his own benefit. From the proceeds of
the litigation or compromise the employer is directed by
§ 33 (e) to retain an amount equal to his disbursements
in securing them, the cost of benefits furnished by him
to the employee, amounts paid as compensation, and the
present, value of all amounts which it is estimated are
payable as such. The latter sum is to be held by the
employer "as a trust fund to pay such compensation as
it becomes due and to pay any sum inexcess of such compensation to the person entitled to such compensation or
to the representative." Any amount recovered above
that required for these purposes is to be paid by the employer directly to the person entitled to compensation
or to the representative."
In the case where the employee survives and accepts
compensation as the only person entitled, it is clear that
the statutory assignment vests in the. employer the full
right to recover damages from the third person. Double
recovery by the employee, compare Mercer v. Ott, 78
W. Va. 629; 89 S. E. 952; Fox v. Dallas Hotel Co., 111
Tex. 461; 240" S. W. 517, is thus avoided. Yet the employer is permitted to share in the recovery only to the
extent of his own liability, compare Travelers Insurance
Co. v. Brass Goods Mfg. Co., 239 N. Y. 273; 146 N. E.
377, and any excess goes to the injured employee.
In this case the injury resulted in death of the employee,
and the election to take compensation was made by the
widow. As she is both the administratrix and the only

AETNA LIFE INS. CO; v. MOSES.
530

.539

Opinion of the Court.

person entitled to compensation, the election was validly
exercised and we need not resolve possible doubts as to
the proper person to make the election under other circumstances. Compare §§ 33 (a) and 33 (b) with § 33 (f).
Her elecfion has called into operation the statutory assignment so far as it applies to the action for wrongful
death. We must decide its effect on that cause of action.
The statute is not free from ambiguity. The right to
recover for a wrongful death is the creature, not of the
common law,. but of a statute which onfers the right on
the personal representative of the deceased for the benefit
of his next of kin under the local statute of distribution,
some of whom may not be entitled to' compensation under
the Compensation Act. Nevertheless, § 33 (b) of the
Act provides that-it is the "right of the person entitled to
compensation to recover damages against such third person" which is assigned to the employer by the election
to take compensation. Reading this provision literally
and alone, the employer, in the case of the wrongful death
of his employee, would take nothing by the assignment
which it purports to effect, since the person entitled to the
compensation has no right to recover for the death. But
§ 133 (d) authorizes the employer to institute suit or to
compromise the claim, and §§ 33 (e) (1) (c) and 33 (e)
(2) provide that any recovery in excess of the sums required to reimburse the employer and allow for compensation payable by him is to be.paid to the representative of
the deceased. Having regard to these provisions and to,
the general purpose which the act discloses with respect
to rights of recovery when the injury does not: result in
death, we see no escape from the conclusion that the
statute contemplates that the employer is to have the
same control over the institution of an action for wrongful
death, the compromise and settlement of the claim, and
the distribution of the proceeds, as he is given in unambiguous language in the case where the injury results only

540

OCTOBER TERM., 1932.
Opinion of ife Court.

-287 U.S.

in disability. What is made explicit by the statute with
respect to the latter is implicit with respect to the former.
For if it had been intended that the employer should assert
only a part of the action for wrongful death, proportionate
to the interest of those who are dependents under the
Compensation Act, compare Matter of Zirpola v. Casselman, 237 N. Y. 367; 143 N. E. 222; U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co.v. Graham & Norton Co., 254 N. Y. 50; 171 N. E.
903; there would be no meaning to th4 language of § 33
(2) directing him to pay to the personal representative
from the proceeds of the action any excess over the compensation award.
Concluding that where.the employer is given anything
to recover it is the full recovery provided by the wrong"ful death act, we do not think, as did the courts below,
that ihe rights thus conferred may be enforced only by an
action brought in the name of the personal representative. It is true that the statute does not expressly say
that the employer may bring the action in his own name,
and thatby the common law the assignee iiust, in general,
sue in the name of the assignor. Glenn v. Marbury,1145
U. S. 499. This rule, a vestige of the common law's reluctance to admit' that a chose in action may be assigned,
is today but a formality which has been widely abolished
by legislation. We see no reason for thinking that a statute passed in 1928 and clearly intended to effect a complete transfer of the'cause of action, should be interpreted
to perpetuate that formality. There is nothing.in its language, history or purpose to indicate that the word "assignment" was used as anything other than a convenient
description of the transfer to the employer of the rights
of the employee, or his representatiye, or that it is to be
read in the common law sense, merely because the forum.
for the enforcement of those rights has not departed from

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOSES.
Opinion of the Court.

-

the common law form in the case of voluntary assignments.
It is immaterial whether the statutory assignment is
said to create a new cause of action in the employer or
merely to permit him to enforce that previously vested
in the employee or his personal representative. What
is material is that the employer, acquires the legal rights
of the employee or the personal representative, subject
to the qualifications imposed by the common law or the
death statute to the extent that they are not inconsistent
with the provisions of the QCmpensation Act. The Compensation Act permits him to enforce them in his own
name.
We do not doubt, although other courts have, Henderson Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Owensboro Home Tel. & Tel. Co.,
192 Ky. 322; 233 S. W. 743; Hfartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Englander,93 N. J. Eq: 188; 118 Atl. 628,
that the insurer is subrogated to the rights of the employer
to the extent that it has discharged his .duities, though
whether its rights extend to compensation which it is liable
to pay, as well as to that which it has paid, we need not
decide.' Notwithstanding, the provision of tlie statute
and of the policy permitting an award for compensation to
be made against the insurer directly, the function of the
insurer is. essentially that of indemnifying the employer.
The statute contemplates that the payment of compensa'The policy of insurance provides (Clause K) that "the Company
shall be subrogated in case of any payment under this Policy, to the
extent of such payment, to all rights of recovery therefor vested by
law either in this Employer or, in any employee or his dependents
claiming hereunder, against persons, corporations, associations or
estates." The insurer issubrogated to the employer's rights to no
greater extent under this express provision than it would be without
it by operation of law; whether its rights may be limited by it, we

have no occasion to consider.

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

tion should be secured by insurance, and nothing in it
indicates that the insurer is to be denied an indemnitor's
rights. Subrogation is a normal incident of indemnity insurance. Hall & Long v. Railroad Companies, 13 Wall.
367; Liverpool & Great Western Steam Co. v. Phenix Insurance Co., 129 U. S. 397, 462; St. Louis Iron Mountain
& Southern Ry. Co. v. Commercial 'Union Insurance Co.,
139 U. S: 223, 235; TravelersInsurance Co. v. Great Lakes
EngineeringCo., 184 Fed. 426; Workmen's Compensation
Exchange v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 45 F. (2d)
885.
The suggestion of the trial court that subrogation is
precluded here by the non-assignability, under the death
act and the common law, of the administratrix's cause of
action for death, is without force. Considerations of policy which may forbid the volintary assignment of the
cause of action are obviously inapplicable to a case where
the statute does assign the action to the employer in 6rder
to carry out the plan of the Compensation Act. That plan
would be destroyed if the insurance company were denied
the right of subrogation. For the consequence would be
to permit that double recovery by either the employer or
the next of kin entitled to compensation which the statute
is careful to avoid, with a resulting increase in the cost of
the insurance which the statute requires.
The insurer's right of subrogation does not alter the
fact that it is the employer who is directed by the statute
to distribute the proceeds of the recovery, in which the
insurer has only a partial interst. Accordingly, the employer is the party to bring the action and the only necessary party plaintiff in the case before us.' But the insurUnder the common law practice rights acquired by subrogation
were asserted in an action at law in the name of the, insured to the
insurer's use, Hall & Long v. ?ailtroad Companies, 13 Wall. 367;'
United States v. American Tobacco Co., 166 U. S. 468, 474, though
in equity, Garrisonv. Memphis Ins. Co., 19 How. 312, and admiralty,

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOSES.
530

543

Opinion of the Court.-

ance company and the widow, both in her own right and
as administratrix, are interested in the recovery. Under
the common law practice, the defendant may not complain if the employer indicates their beneficial interests by
bringing the action to their use as well as to his own. See
SouthernBRy. Co. v. Carter,139 Ga. 236, 238; 77 S. E. 21;
Pearce v. Twichell, 41 Miss. 344, 346; Atkins v. Moore, 82
IM. 240, 241; compare Roof v. ChattanoogaWood Split
Pulley Co., 36 Fa. 284, 293; 18 So. 597. Whether, under
Equity Rule 13 of .the Supreme Cour" of the District of
Cblumiabia, made applicable to actions at law by the first
paragraph of the law rules, they may join .with him as
legal plaintiffs since they have "an interest . . . in obtaining the relief demanded," we do not decide. The decision does not depend upon the federal statute, but upon
the local rule, and may be conditioned by unwritten practices which we should hesitate to disturb. Nor do we
consider what would be the rights of the person'6ntitled to
compensation or the personal representative, compare
Hunt v. Bank Line, 35 F. (2d) 136; or the insurer, see
Norwich Insurance Co. v. Standard Oil Co., 59 Fed. 984;
Conti iental Insurance Co. y. Loud & Sons Lumber Co.,
93 Mich. 139; 53 N, W. 394; V. S. Pidelity.& Guaranty
Liverpool & Great .Western Steam Co. v. Phenix Insurance Co., 129
V. S, 397, 462, the insurer might sue in its own name. We need not
consider the effect upon the common law rule of Equity Rule 13 of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia (made applicable
to actions at law by. Law Rules, 1 1) providing that all actions
"shall be prosecuted ih.the name of the real party in interest," in
a case where the insurer succeeds by subrogation to the entire cause
of action of the insured against the party primarily responsible for
the loss. Cf. Travelers Insurance Co. v. Great Lakes Engineering Co.,
184 -Fed. 426. Such Was not the case here. Compare Norwnih Insurance Co. v. Standard Oil Co., 59 Fed. 984; Continfnta Insurance Co.
v. Loud & Sons Lumber Co., 93 Mich. 139; 53 N. W. 394; U. S.
Fidelity & Guaranty'Co. v. Graham & Norton Co., 254'N. Y. 50,
54-55; 171 N. E. 903.

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

Co.v. Graham& Norton Co., supra, 54-55; 171 N. E.903;
compare Ocean Accident & Guarantee Corp. v. Hooker
Electrochemical Co., 240 N. Y."37; 147 N. E. 351; Aetna
Casualty & Surety Co. v. PhoenixNat. Bank & Trust Co.,
285 U. S. 209, 214, in a case where the employer refused
to co~perate in the prosecution of the action.
Since the ruling below that the action could only be
brought in the name of the personal representative was
erroneous, petitioners' failure to amend in conformity to
that ruling will not preclude amendment now. Judgment
will be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in' conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE,v. ALUMINUM GOODS MANUFACTURING

CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 192.

Argued December 13, 14, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.

1.'Te purpose of requiring consolidated returns by affiliated corporations was to impose the war profits tax according to true net income and invested capital of what was, in practical effect, a single
business enterprise, even ,though conducted by means of more than
-one corporation. -P.547.
2. Primarily, the consolidated return was to preclude reduction of the
totaf tax payable by the business, viewed as a unit, by redistribution of income or capital among the component corporations by
means of intercompany transactions. Id.
3. A manufacturing corporation bought all the shares of another corporation and used it as its subsidiary for-selling the goods manufactured. The subsidiary, after netting losses in several years preceding 1917, was liquidated in that year, and in the year next following
dissolved. Held that the two corporations did not cease to be
"affiliated" during the year 1917 (Rev. Act 1921, § 1331; Treas.
Reg. 41, Arts. 77 and 78), and that in making up their consolidated return of excess profits for that year, the loss of the

