MURPHY OIL CO. v. BURNET.

299

Syllabus.

MURPHY OIL CO. v. BURNET, COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 80. Argued November 18, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.
1. Under the Revenue Act of 1918, bonus and royalties received by
the lessor under an oil lease, are taxable, after making the- allowed
deductions, as income. Burnet v. Harmel, ante, p. 103. P. 301.
2. The bonus and royalties paid the lessor both may involve return of
capital investment in oil in the ground. P. 302.
3. A distinction between royalty and bonus, which would allow a depletion deduction on the former but tax the latter in full as income,
when received, making no allowance for reasonably anticipated production of oil on the leased premises, would deny the "reasonable
allowance for depletion" provided by § 234 (a) (9) of the Revenue
Act of 1918. P. 302.
4. Article 215 of Treasury Regulations 45, as amended November 13,
1926, provides that when the lessor receives a bonus in addition to
royalties, under an oil lease, there shall be allowed as a depletion
deduction in respect of the bonus an amount equal to that pfoportion of the cost or value of the property on the basic date which the
amount of the bonus bears to the sum of the bonus and the royalties
expected to be received; and that such allowance shall be deducted
from the amount remaining to be recovered by the lessor through
depletion, and the remainder be recoverable through depletion deductions on the basis of royalties thereafter received. Held, a reasonable formula for allocating bonus to anticipated depletion where
the estimates involved in its application are reasonable. P. 303.
5. Where the facts do not justify a finding that bonus plus expected
royalties will exceed the invested *capital, it is consistent with the
amended rule supra, and not unreasonable, to allocate bous paid in
earlier years and not returned for taxation, entirely to depletion
allowance, and thus reduce proportionately the amount,.of depletion
allowance per barrel of royalty- oil extracted in later years. P. 306.
6. In view of the state of the record in this case, the Circuit Court of
Appeals did not abuse its discretion in not remanding the case to
the Board of Tax Appeals because of the Commissioner's failure
...
to find the "expected royalties." P,308.

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

7. Repeated r enactments of a taxing provision under which Treasury
Regulations had been adopted for its enforcement, held 15ersuasive
that the regulations conformed to the statute and were approved by
Congress. P. 307.
8. Burnet v. Thompso. Oil & Gas. Co., 283 U. S. 301, disiinguished.
P. 307.
55 F. (2d) 17, affirng~d.

to review the affirmance of a decision of
the Board of Tax Appeals, 15 B. T. A. 1195, sustaining
income tax assessments.
CERTIORARI

*

Messrs. Randolph E. Paul and Thomas R. Dempsey,
with whom Messrs. FerrisD. Stone and Bradner W. Lee
were on the brief, for petitioner..
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, and Messrs. Whitney North
Seymour, Sewall Key, and J.Louis Monarch were on the
brief, for the respondent.

.MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is here on cdrtiorari, 286. U. S. 541, to review
a judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
55-F. (2d) 17, which reversed an order of fhe Board of
Tax Appeals, 15 B. T. A. 1195, and sustained a ruling of
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue fixing the amount
of depletion to be allowed and deducted from royalties received by petitioner in 1919 and 1920 as the lessor of oil
lands, in determining petitioner's taxable income for those
years.
In December, 1913, petitioner, the owner of two tracts
of oil lands, leased them for stipulated net bonus payments, aggregating $5,173,595.18, and royalties of onefourth of the oil produced by the lessee. All the bonus
payments were made before 1919. Whether petitioner
returned those payments. as income or paid income tax on
*See Table of Cases Reported in this v6lume.

MURPHY OIL CO. v. BURNET.
299

Opinion of the Court.

them for the years when recbived does not appear. During 1919 and 1920 petitioner received royaltiep from the
leased lands. In returning its income for those years, it
sought to deduct from the royalties received .the entire
original unit cost to it of the oil extracted during the taxable period, without any diminution by reason of the
bonus payments which it had already received. Under
the applicable Revenue Act of 1918, c. 18, 40 Stat. 105.7,'
bonus and royalties received by the lessor of an oil lease,
after deductions allowed by the taxing act, are taxable
income of the less-or. .See Burner v. Harmel, dnie, p. 103.
The question to be decided is whether the Commissioner
correctly calculated the deduction for depletion for the
years in question, by treating the bonus previously received by the petitioner as a return of capital and by
reducing p'ro tanto the depletion allowed on the royalties
received in later taxable years.
The court below sustained the Commissioner's treatment of the bonus payments as advanced royalties,-for
which depletion must be allowed under § 234 -(a) (9),
Revenue Act of 1918, to the extent that they represent a
return of capital, and held erroneous the conclusion of
the Board of Tax Appeals that the entire bonus was taxable income. The correctness of this decision must first
be determined, for if the Board was right in ruling that
the bonus was not subject to a depletion allowance, the
method of computing the depletion to be allowed on the
royalties received during the. taxable years in question
would present no problem. The taxpayer would be entitled to deduct the full capital investment per barrel in
the oil extracted during those years.
Section 234 (a) (9) of the 1918 Act includes in the
authorized deductions from gross income:
"(9) In the case of mines, oil and gas wells, . . . a
reasonable allowance for depletion and for depreciatiori of
improvements; according to the peculiar conditions in

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

each case, based upon cost including cost of development
not otherwise deducted: . . . such reasonable allowance
in all the above cases to be made under rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Commissioner with the
approval of the Secretary. In the case of leases the
deductions allowed by this paragraphshall be equitably
apportioned between the lessor and lessee; . . ."
We think it no longer open to doubt that when* the
execution of an oil and gas lease is followed by production
of oil, the bonus and royalties paid to the lessor both
involve at least some return of his capital investment in
oil in the ground, for which s depletion allowance must
be made under § 234. See Burnet v. Harmel, supra.
This is obvious where royalties alone are insufficient to
return the capital investment. A distinction between
royalties and bonus, which would allow a depletion deduction on the former but tax the latter in full as income,
when received, making no provision for a reasonably anticipated production of oil on the leased premises, would
ddny the. "reasonable allowance for depletion" which
the statute provides. The harsh operation of such "arule
with respect to taxpayers generally is apparent and. is
emphasized by the opportunist character of petitioner's
argument here. The rule for which it contends can
operate to its advantage only if it fortuitously escapes
payment of any tax on the bonus payments, which it
insists shall be treated as income without the deduction
of any depletion allowance.
Doubts, if any, whether the statute authorizes depletion of bonus payments, have been definitely set at rest by
the repeated reenactment, without substantial change, of
the provisions of § 234 (a) (9),' since the promulgation
1 § 234 (a) (9), Revenue Act of 1921, 42 Stat. 227, 256; § 234 (a)
(8), Revenue Act of 1924, 43 Stat. 253, 284; § 234 (a) (8), Revenue
Act'of 1926, 44 Stat. 9, 42; § 23 (1), Rd'enue Act ofJ928, 45 Stat.
791, 800; § 23 (1), Revenue Act of 1932, 47Stat. 173, 180.

MURPHY OIL CO. v. BURNET.
299

Opinion of the Court.

of treasury regulations providing for such depletion.2
See Burnet v. Thompson Oil & Gas Co., 283 U. S. 301,
307-8; Brewster v. Gage, 280 U. S. 327, 337; Natiorial
Lead Co. v. United States, 252 U. S. 140, 146-147.
The question remairis whether the method followed
by the Commissioner in this case in allocating depletion
to, bonus and royalties failed to afford that' "reasonable
allowance" for depletion which the statute provides.
Article 215, Treasury Regulations 45 (1920 ed.) pro. . ....
vided:
"(a) Where a lessor receives a bonus or other sum in
addition to royalties, such bonus or other sum shall be
regarded as a return of capital to the lessor, but only to
the extent of the capital remaining to be recovered
through 'depletion by the lessor at the date of the lease.
If the bonusexceeds the capital remaining to berecovered,
the excess and all the royalties thereafter received will be
income and not depletable. If the bonus is less than the
capital remaining to be recovered by the lessor through
depletion, the difference may be recovered through depletion deductions based on the royalties thereafter received. The bonus or other sum paid by the lessee for
a lease made on or after March 1, 1913, will be his value
for depletion as of date of acquisition."
This paragraph of the regulation was amended, November 13, 1926, by Treasury-Decision 3938, V-2, C. B. 117,
to read as follows:
"(a) Where a lessor receives a bonus in addition to
royalties, there shall be allowed as a depletion deduction
'Art. 215 (a), Treasury Regulations 45 (1920 ed.), Revenue Act of
1918, continued intact in Art. 215(a), Treasury Regulations 62, Revenue Act of 1921; Art. 216(a), Treasury Regulations 65, Revenue Act
of 1924. The amendment of subdivision (a), November 13, 1926, by
T. D. 3938, V-2 C. B. 117, appears in Art.. 216(a), Treasury Regulations 69, Revenue Act of 1926; Art. 236(a), Treasury Regulations 74,
Revenue Act of 1928. See also the minimum royalty provision in
Art. 236(b) of Regulations 74.

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

in respect of the bonus an amount-equal to that proportion of the cost or value of the property on the basic date
which the amount of the bonus bears to the sum of the
bonus and the royalties expected to be received. Such
allowance sall be deducted from the amount remaining to
be recovered by the lessor through depletion, and the
remainder is recoverable through, depletion deductions on
the basis of royalties thereafter received."
The importantdifference in operation between the regulation before its amendment and afte, is in the case where
the Commissioner properly finds that the sum of the bonus
and expected royalties exceeds the lessor's capital investment in the oil in the ground. If, for example, the bonus
were $1,000,000 and the estimated royalties were $2,000,000 and the capital investment of the lessor in the oil
in the ground, to be depleted, were $2,000,000, the allowed
depletion for return of the capital investment would be
deducted, one-third from the bonus and two-thirds from
the royalties as received.
The regulation thus operates to distribute the lessor's
anticipated profit or the taxable net income to be derived
from the extraction of all the oil ratably between the
bonus and royalties, so that the estimated profit element
in each will be taxed as received, subject to such readjustments of capital account as are authorized by paragraphs
(c) and (d) of the amended regulation, in the event of
termination, abandonment, or expiration of the lease before all the oil is extracted. But if the bonus and expected
royalties together are not found to exceed the capital investment of the lessor, the entire bonus received in advance of royalties must be tfeated, after the amended
regulation as well as before, as a return of capital, since,
in that case, the expected royalties added to the bonus are,
by hypothesis, sufficient to return no more than the lessor's capital.

MURPHY OIL CO. v. BURNET.
299

305

Opinion of the Court.

Such was the case here.' In determining petitioner's
depletion allowance for the two years in question, the
Commissioier made no specific determination of the "expected royalties" from the leased lands. But such a determination was of consequence in allocating depletion to
the bonus only in the event that the total .of bonus and
expected royalties exceeded the invested capital of the
taxpayer. No facts appear which would have justified
such a fnding and, without it, the requirements of the
amendd regulation were satisfied by treating the whole
bonus as a return of capital, and deducting from the depletion allowance on each barrel of the royalty oil thb proportion' of the capital investment already returned by the
bonus. This is what the Commissioner did:
He determmied, on the basis of engineers' reports, the
total amount of oil in the -ground at the date of the lease
and its value as of March 1, 1913. This he treated as
petitioner's capital investment, to be returned by the depletion allowance. The computation necessarily revealed
the per barrel capital investment in oil in the ground at
the date of the lease. By making certain necessary capital
investment adjustments, reflecting oil extraction during
the years before 1919, the detail of which is not now important, he arrived at the per barrel capital investment
of 'petitioner in oil in. the ground in 1919 and 1920, tile
figure which would represent the actual amount of depletion of the capital investment for each barrel of oil extracted during those years, if there had been no bonus
payments. His method of bringing the bonus into the
computation amounted, in effect, to dividing the amount
of'thebonus by the total number of barrels of royalty oil
in the ground, as indicated by the engineers' reports.
The result represented the amount to be deducted from
the depletion allowance per barrel of royalty oil which
would otherwise have been made for those years. Stated

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

in another way, the total amount of the bonus was deducted from petitioner's total capital investment in oil
in the ground returnable by depletion allowances, with a
corresponding reduction in the per barrel capital investment in the oil reserve. Thus the Commissioner treated
the whole of the bonus as a return, in advance of abstraction of the oil, of a part of the petitioner's capital investment in the oil in the ground, with which it would part,
in a technical legal sense, only upon abstraction. In
consequence, the deduction for depletion allowed on royalties received in 1919 and 1920 was reduced; it is of this
reduction that petitioner complains.
We think the Commissioner's method "reasonable"
within the meaning of the statute. The deduction for
depletion from the bonus payments, which the statute requires, must either be made after the process of extracting
the oil is complete, to the extent that the royalties received have been insufficient to replace invested capital,
with the attendant inconvenience of indefinite postponement of the allocation of the bonus to income and return
of capital, or a formula must be adopted by which the
appropriate allocation may be made as the two classes of
gross income, bonus and royalties, are received.
That formula the regulation purports to furnish.
Where the estimates are reasonable, the formula affords
a fair and convenient method of avoiding the present
taxation of the bonus, when received, as income, in the
face of the probability that it will ultimately prove not
to be such. It will not fail to provide, with reasonable
certainty, -for the restoration of capital to which the taxpayer is entitled, if the oil extracted equals or exceeds the
amount originally estimated. If less than that amount, it
does not preclude revision and necessary adjustments, as
errors appear probable. In addition, provision is made
by subdivisions (c) and (d) of the regulation, as amended,
for such necessary capital readjustments as may be occa-

MURPHY OIL CO. v. BURNET.
299

307

Opinion of the Court.

sioned by the termination, abandonment or expiration
of the lease before all the oil is extracted.
The method of computation provided by the amended
regulation must be taken to have received the approval of
Congress, for, as already noted, the provisions of article
215 (a), as amended, have been continued in the Treasury
Regulations since 1926 and those of § 234 (a) (9) of the
Revenue Act of 191& have been reenacted without substantial change in the Revenue Acts of 1928 and 1932.
The problem here is different from that involved in
Burnet v. Thompson Oil & Gas Co., supra. There it was
held, interpreting § 234 (a) (9), that the part of the
depletion not allowed by the 1913 statute in the year in
which it occurred could not be carried over and added to
the depletable base used in computing the tax for a later
year under the 1918 Act, which allowed depletion in full.
Here an anticipated depletion of capital is to be returned
from bonus and future royalties, to the extent that the
applicable statutes allow, and-the problem is to allocate
such anticipated.depletion to a payment made in advance
of its occurrence. This allocation is permitted by the
statute.
Petitioner argues, nevertheless, that the regulation is
unreasonable because it requires the Commissioner to
estimate probable royalties which are dependent on the
frequently unforeseeable future market value of oil. But
the regulation does not require him to make estimates
which are unreasonable, for where none can be made with
reasonable accuracy the Commissioner cannot find that
"the sum of the bonus and royalties expected to bd
received" exceeds the capital investment, In that event,
the whole of the bonus will be treated, as in this case, as a
return of capital. We cannot say that such a result is
unreasonable on its face. The exigencies which "the
peculiar conditions of each case" may present; we need
not now consider. It is also unnecessary to inquire under

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

what circumstances the application of the regulation may
fail to comply with. the- statute because the appraisals
which are made are extravagant or impossible. In the
case before us the accuracy of every estimate of the
Commissioner is unchallenged. It cannot be said that the
regulation, as applied here, was unauthorized by the
statute because inadequate for its purpose or inconvenient or unjust in its operation.
Finally, petitioner urges that as the Commissioner failed
to find the expected royalties to be received under the
lease, the court below should have exercised its discretion
to remand the case to the Board of Tax Appeals for a
rehearing. § 1003 (b), Revenue Act of 1926, 44 Stat. 9,
'110. As we have said above, the record does not disclose
any facts froma which the expected royalties might be determined. Neither the petitioner nor the Commissioner
asked opportunity to supply such facts. It does not appear whether such an estimate could be made, or that, if
made, the sum of the bonus and expected royalties would
P.Xceed the petitioner's capital investment, returnable' by
depletion. Hence, no case was made calling for the court
below to exercise its discretion in petitioner's favor.,
Affirmed.
BANKERS POCAHONTAS COAL CO. 'v. BURNET,
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 104. Argued November 18, 1932.-Decided December .5, 1932.
1. l
lyties based on coal production, which were received by a lessor
of coal land in 1920-1926 under leases executed before the date of
the Sixteenth Amendment, held not converted capital taxable only
by apportionment, .but income taxable under the Revenue Act of
1918, whether title to the coal passed to the lessee upon the making
of the leases, before the coal was severed, or only as the coal was
mined. Burnet v. Harmel, ante, p. 103. P. 310.

