OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

of the Constitution of the United States. This Court
held that "whether the plaintiff has any rights that the
City is bound to respect can be decided only by taking
jurisdiction of the case" and that it was necessary for the
District Court to deal with the merits. See, also, Fidelity
& Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426, 434; Iowa-Des
Moines NationalBank v. Bennett, 284 U. S. 239, 246.
We are of the opinion that the allegations of the bills
of complaint that the City acting under color of state
authority was violating the asserted private right secured
by the Federal Constitution, presented a substantial federal question and that it was error of the District Court
to refuse jurisdiction.
Decrees reversed.
GULF STATES STEEL CO.
STATES.

ET A.

v. UNITED

.CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 24. Argued October 20, 1932.--Decided November 7,- 1932.
1. While a claim for abatement of a deficiency assessment was before
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and when the period of
limitation on collection was about to expire, the taxpayer, in order
to secure delay and opportunity to present further proofs, filed a
bond to indemnify the Collector against any resulting loss. After
the period of limitation had run, the taxpayer filed a second bond,
for the purpose- of releasing the surety on the first and substituting
a pledge of securities; then a third bond releasing the pledge and
introducing another surety. Each of the later bonds recited the
assessment, the pendency of the claim for abatement, and the preceding bond, and was conditioned upon payment to the Collector
of such amount of the tax "as -is not abated." Thereafter, the
Commissioner rejected the claim for abatement and sustained the
assessment; but the Board of Tax Appeals, which was not established uiitil after the second bond had been given, held, at the instance of the taxpayer, that no tax deficiency existed, since collec-

GULF STATES STEEL CO. v. U. S.
32

Counsel for Parties.

tion was barred by limitations. The United States sued on the
third bond. Held:
(1) The bonds must be construed together in the light of the
circumstances. P. 42.
(2) The purpose of the later bonds was to continue the protection afforded by the first against any loss from delay, whether
through extinguishment of rights under the statute of limitations
or otherwise. Id.
(3) The possible abatement referred to was partial reduction or
annulment of the assessment by the action of the Commissioner, or,
pos.ibiy, by a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals on the merits.
Pp. 43-44.
(4) The action of the Board of Tax Appeals, announcing the bar
of the statute of limitations, at the instance of the taxpayer, but
not determining the merits, was not an abatement within the meaning of the bonds. P. 44.
2. Section 906 (e) of the Revenue Act of 1924, as amended by the
Acts of 1926 and 1928, which provides that if the assessment or
collection of any tax is barred by limitations, the decision of the
Board of Tax Appeals to that effect "shall be considered as its
decision that there was no deficiency in respect of such tax," does
not release the taxpayer and surety from a bond, given before the
section was passed, for the purpose of protecting the United States
from loss that might result from according the taxpayer further
time within which to contest the validity of an assessment. Pp.
43, 45.
3. A literal construction of a statute leading to absurd results, should
be avoided if possible. P. 45.
56 F. (2d) 43, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 286 U. S. 536, to review the affirmance of
a judgment recovered by the United States in an action
on a bond.
Mr. John W. Drye, Jr., with whom Messrs. Joh; M.
Perry and Augustus Benners were on the brief, for
petitioners. Mr. James P. McGovern also appeared for
petitioners.
Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

34

Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

Miss Helen R. Carloss, and Messrs. Sewall Key and
Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief, -for the United
States.
Mr. John E. Hughes, by leave of Court, filed a brief as
amicus curiae.
lVMR.

JuscICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
In the District Court for Alabama--August 25, 1930the United States sued the Gulf States Steel Company,
principal, and National Surety Company, surety,-petitioners here-upon. a bond dated .September 9, 1925,
whereby they agreed to pay Snead, Collector of Internal
Revenue, so much of the additional income and profits
taxes for 1917 assessed by him against the principal in
1921 "as is not abated." . Judgment on a verdict went for
plaintiffs; the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed; the matter is here by certiorari.
Petitioners say the sole question presented is whether
the additional taxes were abated by the determination of
the Board of Tax Appeals (July 10, 1928) in a*proceeding
brought by the Steel Company to review the Commissioner's final rejection, of its demand for abatement. The
Board held "that the respondent is now b.rred by statute
from collecting any part of the additional assessment
made in April, .1921, and that there is no deficiency for the
year 1917," It directed entry of an order to that effect.
The p.etition for certiorari asserts: "The sole question
in this case is whether the final decision of the Board that
there-was no deficiency 'abated' the tax." The following is the only specification of error relied on here--" That
the Court erred in holding that the claim for the deficiency
of taxes was not abated by the final decision of the United
States Board of Tax Appeals that there was no deficiency."
And in their brief counsel for petitioners say---" The sole

GULF STATES STEEL CO. v. U. S.
32

Opinion of .the Court.

question in this case is whether the final decision of the
Board that there was no deficiency 'abated' the tax."
March 28, 1918, the Steel Company filed its income and
excess profits tax return for 1917 and shortly thereafter
paid tle amount apparently due. InApril, 1921, the Commissiolier made a deficiency assessment of $153,815.30;
May 6, 1921, the Company filed claim and demand for
abatement of this entire sum upon the ground that the
additional assessment was unwarranted and illegal in so
far as it -results-(1) From the failure to compute the
invested capital by including the actual cash value of
claimant's property on January 1, 1914; (2) From the
action of the examiners in deducting only 7% of invested
capital, instead of 8%; and (3)From disallowance of certain interest 'payments as part of invested capital.
March 13, 1923, fifteen days before the five-year statute
would have barred collection of the deficiency assessment-the additional tax being wholly unpaid and the
abatement claim undetermined-in order to secure delay
and further consideration of objections, the taxpayer asprincipal, with the American Surety Company as surety,
gave the Collector a bond for $175,350.00 which recites"The condition of the above obligation issuch that,
if the said Gulf States Steel Company will indemnify the
said W. E. Snead as Collector as aforesaid, or his successor in office, against all loss, cost, damage, and exp'ehse
to which he may be put by reason of having allowed the
said Gulf States Steel Company to withhold the payment
to him, as such Collector, of the sum of One Hundred and
Fifty-three Thousand Eight Hundred Fifteen and 30/100
Dollars ($153,815.30), claimed'of it under the War Reve-.
nue Act of 1917, pending the filing, by the said Gulf
States Steel Company.of additional faots and information
in support of a claim for the abatement of said amount
heretofore filed by it, then this obligation to be null and
void, otherwise, to be and remain in full force and effect."
April 3, 1925, in order to obtain release of the American
Surety Company from the above-described bond, also to

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

make certain the payment of whatever the Commissioner
might thereafter finally declare to be payable under the deficiency assessment of 1921, the Steel Company executed
a second obligation and pledged as security Two Hundred
Thousand Dollars U. S. Liberty Loan Bonds. This
obligation recites"Whereas the Gulf States. Steel Company did execute
a bond in the penal sum of One Hundred Seventy-five
Thousand, Three Hundred and Fifty Dollars, ($175,350.00), and in favor of W. E. Snead, Collector of Internal
Revenue, for the District of Alabama, which said bond
was signed by the American Surety Company of New
York, -as surety, under date of the 13th day of March,
f923, and was given in support of a claim for the abatement of assessments, penalties and- interests, under the
Revenue Act of 1917. Being desirous of relieving the
above, bound surety Company and further securing the
payment of any amount found to be due the United States
government under the above Revenue Act, now, therefore,
if the undersigned Gulf States Steel Compaiiy shall pay
to W. E. Snead, Collector, or his successors in office, such
amount of the claim as is not abated, together with all
costs, damages, penalties; interest, or other expense connected therewith, then this obligation shall be void, otherwise it shall remain in full force and effect."
September 9, 1925,-the Steel Company as principal, and
National Surety Company as surety, executed the bond in
suit, conditioned as follows"Whereas, an additional income tax has been assessed
for the year 1917 in the sum of One Hundred Fifty-three
Thousand Eight -Hundred'and Fifteen Dollars and Thirty
Cents ($153,815.30), with penalty and interest against the
Gulf States Steel Company of Birmingham, Alabama. A
claim for the abatement of the additional tax was filed
with the Collector of Internal Revenue for the District
of Alabama at Birmingham. On the third day of April,

GULF STATES STEEL CO. v. U. S.
32

Opinion of the Court.

" 1925, the Gulf States Steel Company did execute its bond
securing the payment of so much of the additional assessment, penalties and interest as is not abated. In lieu of
surety on the above bond the said company did deposit
with the Federi1 ReserveBank of New York, under Section 1029 "f the Revenue Act of 1924, the following described United States, Fourth Liberty Loan 4'A% Gold
Bonds of 1933-8 series, being of the par value of $200,000.00 (coupons), *numbers . . . The above bonds were
deposited on account and subject to the orders of W. E.
Snead, Collector of Internal Revenue for the District of
Alabama. Now, therefore, if W. E. Snead, Collector of
Internal Revenue, shall release and surrender the said
bonds to the said Company, and the principal, or sureties,
either or both, shall pay to the said Collector so much of
the amount of the"claim as is not abated, together with
penalties and interest thereon as provided by Law, then
this obligation shall be of no effect. Otherwise, it shall
remain in full force."
May 12, 1926, the Comn.issioner finally rejected in toto
the Steel Company's long pending-claim for abatement of
the additional assessment of 1921 and gave proper notice.
This notice among others things stated--" you are allowed
60 days (not counting Sunday as the sixtieth day) from
the date of mailing of this letter within which to file a petition with the United States Board of Tax Appeals, Earle
Building, Washington, D. C., contesting in whole or in
part the correctness of this determination."
By an original petition to the Board of Tax Appeals,
July 9, 1926, the Steel Company asked a "redetermination
of the deficiency set forth, by the respondent [Commissioner] in his notice of deficiency . . dated May 12,
1926." The prayer follows"The petitioner prays for relief from the deficiency asserted by the respondent and from payment of the taxes

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

assessed in the following and each of the following particulars:
(a) That the petitioner be allowed as a deduction from
its gross income for the year 1917, the sum of '47,021.82
as amortization of the cost to it of the lease (or stock) of
Clinton Mining Company or as depletion or exhaustion of
the leased properties based upon a cost of $145,000.00; or
(b) That the Clinton Mining Company be granted- a reasonable allowance for the exhaustion or depletion of the
leased properties based upon a March 1, 1913, value of the
leasehold, and that amount so allowed be deducted in computing the consolidated net income of the petitioner and
Clinton Mining Company for the year 1917:
(c) That the petiti6ner be allowed $11,000,000.00 in computing its invested capital for 1917, on account of the
property paid in for stock on December 1, 1913.
Wherefore petitioner prays that this Board may hear
and determine the deficiency herein alleged."
By an amended petition, March 2, 1927, (after Bowers
v. New York & Albany Lighterage Co., February, 1927,
273 U. S. 346,) the Steel Company renewed its request
for "a redetermination of the deficiency set forth by the
respondent in his. notice of deficiency" dated May 12,
1926.
The petitions are identical except the amended one contains two new paragraphs which allege extinguishment
through the Statute of Limitations of all liability of the
Steel Company for the additional taxes; also the following
new prayer"(d) That the Board determine that the liability of
the petitioner for the payment of the alleged deficiency
has been extinguished by the running of the Statute of
Limitations upon its collection and/or that the collection
of said alleged deficiency was barred at the expiration of
five years after said returns were filed."

GULF STATES STEEL CO. v. U. S.
82

Opinion of the Court.

The Board of Tax Appedls in July, 1928, held---" None
of the bonds in the instant case can be said to constitute
a consent in writing by both the Commissioner and the
taxpayer to a later determination, assessment and collection of the tax in question, and no other exception to
the running of the statute of limitations provided in any
of the Acts being present, and no suit or proceeding for
the collection of tax having been begun prior to the expiration of five years from the date of filing the return,
and the five-year period having expired prior to the passage of the Revenue Act of 1924, we hold that the respondent is now barred by statute from collecting any part
of the additional assessment made in April, 1921, and that
there is no deficiency for the year 1917. Bowers v. New
York & Albany Lighterage Co., [273 U. S. 346]; C.' B.
Shaffer v. Commissioner, [12 B. T. A. 298] United States
v. The John Barth Co. [279 U. S. 370]; Art Metal Works
v. Commissioner, 9 B. T. A. 491. Our decision, in this
respect in no wise disposes of any questions arising as to
liability on the bond." The consequent formal entry
recites--" It is ordered and adjudged that the collection
of the deficiency, if any, in income and excess profits taxes
for the year 1917 is barred by the statute of 'Limitations
Bowers v. New York & Albany LighterageCo., February
21, 1927, 273 U. S. 346, construed the provision, Revenue
Act 1921, prohibiting suit or proceeding for the collection
of income or excess profits taxes after five years subsequent to the return and held it applied both to. suits in
court and to distraint proceedings. Prior to this, tax officers went upon the view that the statute of limitations
did not apply to distraint.
United States v. John Barth Co., 279 U. S. 370, May 13,
1929, ruled that the limitation in Revenue Acts 1918,1919,
1921 and 1924 upon the time within which income and

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

excess profits taxes may be assessed and suits begun to
collect is inapplicable where the suit is upon a bond given
to secure payment of taxes theretofore returned and
assessed, in order to obtain postponement of payment
pending decision upon claim for abatement; also, that a
bond made in such circumstances affords a cause of action
separate and distinct from one to collect the tax.
Prior to 1924, in order to contest the Commissioner's
assessment, the taxpayer had to pay the sum demanded
and bring suit to recover. Graham v. du Pont, 262 U. S.
234, 258.
Title IX-Board of Tax Appeals-Act June 2, 1924, c.
234, 43 Stat. 253, 336, established the Board of Tax Appeals and authorized it to hear appeals from the Commissioner's action in respect of deficiencies before payments,
etc. Under this act if the Board disallowed an alleged
deficiency, thereafter the Commissioner could enforce
collection only by suit in court.
The Revenue Act, February 26, 1926-Title X; Board
of Tax Appeals-c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 105, 107 amended Title
IX-Board of Tax Appeals, Organization and ProcedureAct of 1924, siipra, by adding thereto, among other things
(under subtitle " Organization and Procedure ") the following wholly new paragraph-" Sec. 906 (e). If the assessment or collection of any tax is barred by any statute
of limitations, the decision of the Board to that effect
shall, for the purposes of this title and of the Revenue Act
of 1926, be considered as its decision that there is no deficiency in respect of such tax." See. 274 (a) and (b) of
this Act are in the margin.*
"Sec. 274 (a). If in the case of any taxpayer, the Commissioner
determines that there is a deficiency in respect of the tax imposed by
this title, the Commissioner is authorized to send notice of such deficiency to the taxpayer by registered mail. Within 60 days after
such-notice is mailed (not counting Sunday as the sixtieth day), the
taxpayer may file a p6tition with the Board of Tax Appeals for a

GULF STATES STEEL CO. v. U. S.
32

Opinion of the Court.

The Revenue Act, May 29, 1928, "Title IV=-Administrative Provisions," 45 Stat. 791, 871, 872, c. 852, amended
the above quoted ยง 906 (e) to read-" If the assessment
or collection of any tax is barred by any statute of limitations, the decisi6n of the Board to that effect shall be considered as its decision that there is no deficiency in respect
of such tax."
The original Complaint in the present cause alleges that
the Steel Company's claim for abatement of the additional
assessment for the year 1917 was rejected by the Commissioner May 12, 1926, "for the full amount thereof,
whereby there remained unpaid and unabated of the said
assessment One Hundred Fifty-three Thousand, Eight?
Hundred Fifteen Dollars and Thirty Cents ($153,815.30),
which said finding and determination of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue rejecting said claim for abatement has remained and now is in full force, vigor and
effect, unvacated, unreversed and unmodified and is subject to no credits, set-offs or counterclaims other than hereredetermination of the deficiency. Except as otherwise provided in
subdivision (d) or (f) of this section or in section 279, 282, or 1001,

no assessment of a deficiency in respect of the tax imposed by this
title and no distraint or proceeding in court for its collection shall be
made, begun, or prosecuted until such notice has been mailed to the
taxpayer, nor until the expiration of such 60-day period, nor, if a
petition has been filed with the Board, until the decision of the Board
has become final. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3224 of
the Revised Statutes the making of such assessment or the beginning
of such proceeding or distraint during the time such prohibition is in
force may be enjoined by a proceeding in the proper court.
" (b). If the taxpayer files a petition with the Board, the entire
amount redetermined as the deficiency by the decision of the Board
which has become final shall be assessed and snall be paid upon notice
and demand from the collector. No part of the amount determined
as a deficiency by the Commissioner but disallowed as such by the
decision of the Board which has become final shall be assessed or be
collected by distraint or by proceeding in court with or without
assessment."

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

inafter set forth." Petitioners denied this allegation.
They maintained that the Commissioner's action had been
reversed and the additional taxes abated by the opinion
and ruling of the Board of Tax Appeals and this seems to
have been the only point relied upon in the Circuit Court
of Appeals which rejected petitioners' theory and
approved the challenged judgment on the bond.
Concerning the Board's action that court said [p. 45]"This is not a, finding that the tax or any part of it
should be abated. It does not abate any part of it. It
is but a formal judgment that the tax, as tax, is, because
the bar of limitation has fallen, not collectible. Since it
is this and no more, it has the effect upon the suit on the
bond here, and nomore, that the fact found in the Barth
case and the legal conclusion there announced, that time
had run against the tax and that it was therefore uncollectible, had on the suit on the bond there."
The bond in suit must be construed in the light of
surrounding circumstances. Hill v. American ,Surety Co.,
200 U. S.197, 203, 204, 205. They are narrated above.
As in United States v. Barth Co., supra, the plain purpose of the first bond-March 13, 1923-was to prevent
immediate collection of the assessed additional taxes and
to provide against any loss which might follow delay
whether through extinguishment of rights under the Statute of Limitations or otherwise. We think it sufficiently
clear that the two succeeding bonds were intended to continue the protection afforded by the first. The taxpayer,
having attained its purpose through these bonds, now
claims that the United States cannot enforce the obligation which induced the delay contemplated by all parties.
It seeks escape through literal construction of a statute
evidently designed to protect taxpayers in different
circumstances.
Considering the state of the record, it is only necessary
now to pass on one point-Were "the additional assessments, penalties and interest" "abated" by the Board of

GULF STATES STEEL CO. v. V. S.
32

Opinion of the Court.

Tax Appeals' final determination, within the meaning of
the bond in suit. Unless this is answered in the affirmative, the judgment below must stand, There is no suggestion that it should be upset upon any other ground.
Petitioners maintain that the Board had jurisdiction of
the appeal from the Commissioner; that it definitely ruled
"the collection of the deficiency, if any, of.income and excess profits taxes for the year 1917 is barred by the Statute
of Limitations" and that the necessary result of this ruling was abatement of the additional assessments, mentioned in the 1925.bond. This conclusion, they say, is inescapable under the clear mandate 6f ยง 906 (e), Revenue
Act of 1924, as amended by the Acts of 1926 and 1928"If the assessment or collection of .any tax is barred by.
any Statute of Limitations the decision of the Board to
that effect shall be considered as its decision that there is
no deficiency in respect of such tax."
As the provisions of ยง 906 (e) first came into the law
after execution of the bond, they could not then have beenwithin contemplation of the parties. The bond of 1925,
like the two preceding ones, was given to protect the
United States against loss; it referred to. the tax liability
existing March 13, 1923,-$153,815.30--and was intended
to guarantee paymeilt of that sum unless reduced or annulled by some future action of the Commissioner. Payment might have been enforced; but the taxpayer claimed
the amount assessed was too high and procured further
delay for investigation by executing the bond. The possible abatement-partial reduction or annulment-there
referred to depend.ed upon the future decision of the Commissioner.
On appeal to the Board the taxpayer challenged the
assessment as erroneous; also, because under the Statute
of Limitations there remained no right to enforce the tax.
As to the first ground, the Board found nothing. It declared only that the Statute had run against the right to
collect the tax-this upon the taxpayer's prayer. In no

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

proper sense was there a redetermination of the deficiency
assessed in 1923. The anticipated bar of the tax by the
Statute could not affect the controversy-was not the
point in issue, was not disputed. The bond required payment of a stated sum under the assessment already made,
unless this should be abated by the Commissioner. What
abatement should be allowed was the-matter before him
and a re~xaminatiori of his determination was necessarily
limited to those matters which might have been presented
to him. By the prayer based on the statute of limitations
the taxpayer defeated a determination of the real controversy.
In the circumstances, possibly, a decision upon the
merits might have been regarded as the Commissioner's
action within the implication of the bond. The effective
scope of the decision rendered is no broader than the issue,
opinion and findings. It left undisturbed the Commissioner's assessment of 1923. This the bond undertook to
pay wholly without regard to the right to enforce the tax
as such.
The existence of the bar under the Statute, as against
the lien or right to enforce the tax as such, was never
the subject of controversy-was not denied. And. as the
present suit is not to enforce the tax as such, but an bbligation given in contemplation of the loss of right to
enforce, a decision proclaiming this loss is but announcement of something expected by all parties-an unfruitful
pronouncement upon an immaterial point. United States
v. Barth Co., supra. See United States v. Martin Hotel
Co., 59 F. (2d) 549. As the Board failed to pass upon the
Commissioner's -refusal to reduce the amount of the assessment, that sum, with interest, etc., now represents what is
due upon the bond. The Board expressly disclaimed
purpose to rule concerning this obligation-the question
was not present. It might, with propriety, have examined the objections to the amount of the 1923 assessment;
but the taxpayer asked another course.

POWELL v. ALABAMA.
Syllabus.

32

Section 906 (e) may find proper application on an ordinary appeal, as for example, where the Commissioner's
right to assess is challenged because the Statute of Limitations had run, or where, as in Bowers v. New York &
Albany Lighterage Co., supra, -the Collector asserts the
right to enforce payment by distrain. fter the statutory
bar. It can have no application to What may have been
said or done by the Board when undertalking to redeter-'
mine a deficiency having no possible relation to the Statute of Limitations.
The literal construction of ยง 906 .(e) proposed by the
petitioners would lead to consequences manifestly unjust,
if not absurd. When the bond in suit was executed the
Statute had extinguished the right of the United States
to enforce the tax as such. That Congress thereafter
actually intended to release the parties whenever the
Board should declare this fact is beyond belief. The thing
announced by the Board had no real relation to the obligation of the bond. When possible, every statute should
be rationally interpreted with the view of 'carrying out the
legislative intent. We cannot attribute to Congress the
purpose necessary to support petitioners' urgence.
_Affirmed.

OZIE POWELL, WILLIE ROBERSON, ANDY
WRIGHT, AND OLEN MONTGOMERY v. ALABAMA.
HAYWOOD PATTERSON v. SAME.CHARLEY WEEMS AND CLARENCE NORRIS v.
SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

Nos. 98, 99, and 100.

Argued October 10, 1932.-Decided November
7, 1932.

1. The rule denying the aid of counsel to persons charged with
felony, which (except as to legal questions) existed in Engiind

