ALTON R. CO. yv. UNITED STATES.
224

229

Syllabus.

Revenue Act of 1924 presented proper.'occasion for imposition of the tax. The death became the generating

source of -definite accessions to the survivor's property
rights. Tyler v. United States, supra. See Saltonstafl v.
Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260; Chase NatiopalBank v. United
States, 278 U. S. 327; Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co.,
278 U. S. 339.
Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531; Untermyerv. Anderson, 276 U. S.440, and Coolidge v. Long, 282 U. S. 582,
are inapplicable. In them the rights of the survivors became finally and definitely fixed before the passage of the
act-nothing was added as the result of death.
The judgment below must be
__
__-_

_

Affirmed.

ALTON RAILROAD CO. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERNQ DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 81.

Argued October 10, 11, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

1. Where one of 'several carriers which, by their agreement, have
established joint rates and fixed the divisions, is ilegally deprived
of part or all of its agreed share through the action of the other
carriers in dividing the freight collections on anotther basis, the
aggrieved carrier is entitled to apply under § 15 (6) of the Interstate Commerce Act for an order that the agreed divisions be
maintained; and the Commission can not refuse to entertain the
complaint. P. 236.
2. An order of the Commission denying felief under such an appli-.
cation, upon a finding that the reduced divisions complained of
are not "unjust, unreasonable, or otherwise unlawful," is in effect
an order reducing the divisions to which the complaining carrier
was entitled under the agreement; it is a "negative" order in form
only. P. 237.
3. The Conmission, in concluding that the shar6 received by the
complaining carrier was not unjust, unreasonable, or' otherwise
unlawful, construed the words of § 15 (6), "importance to the
public of the services of such carriers," as referring to the im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

portance of the particular services in question, and the term "intermediate line" as including a road over which was "reshippecd"
warehoused grain that had been brought in by other roads with
which it did not participate in joint rates. Held
That the correctness of these constructions, and the question
whether a noncompensatory share of existing joint rates can constitutionally be imposed by the Commission, are questions subject
to review in a suit under the Urgent Deficiencies Act to set aside
that part of the order. P. 239.
4. There may be judicial review of a part of an order of the Commission. P. 237.
58 F. (2d) 399, revers d.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges dismissing a bill to set aside part of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. The ground of dismissal was that the order was negative in character
and that therefore the court had no jurisdiction.
Mr. FrankH. Touner, with whom Mr. Silas H. Strawn
was on the brief, for appellant.
. Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher, Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian, and
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton were on the brief, for the United
States and the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Leo P. Day appeared for the railroad companies,
appellees.
MR.JuSTIcE

BRANDE~IS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit, under the Urgent Deficiencies Act-of October
22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220, was brought by The
Alton Railroad Company in the federal court for northern
Illinois to set aside part of an order entered by the Interstate Commerce Commission under § 15 (6) of the
Interstate Com merce Act, see Transportation Act, February 28, 1920, c. 91, § 418, 41 Stat. 456, 475, 486. The

ALTON R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
229

Opinion of the Court.

defendants are the United States and, by intervention, the
Commission and carriers adversely interested. The proceeding before the Commission was commenced by the
receivers of the Chicago & Alton "to establish just, reasonable, and equitable divisions" of existing joint rates for
grain and grain products from Peoria, Illinois, to points
east of Buffalo.' The Commission found that the divisions
of the so-called "local" rates were too low, and ordered
them increased. It found that the divisions of the socalled "reshipping" rates were-" not unjust, -unreasonable or: otherx ise unlawful" and refused relief as to them.
Wheelock v. Akron, Canton & Youngstown Ry. Co., 169
I. /. C. 594; 179 I. C. C. 517.- The Alton Railroad (the
'The proceeding, before the Commission involved also the rates

from Pekin, which lies about ten miles from Peoria. -But as the
inbound and outbound rates to and- from these two points and the
transit regulations and practices in effect are the same as to both,
only Peoria will be referred to.
2 Division 5 of the Commission, after a hearing, found that the share
accorded the Alton was unreasonable and otherwise unlawful, and
fixed new divisions. On petition by the defendants,' the order of
Division 5 was indefinitely postponed and a rehearing before the full
Commission granted. The order entered by the full Commission
reads as follows:
"This case having been reheard and submitted by the parties, and
full investigation of the matters and things involved having been had,
and the commission having, on the date hereof, made and fileda report on rehearing containing its findings of fact and conclusions
thereon, which said report, together with "the original report and
order herein, 169 I. C. C. 594, is hereby referred to and made a part
hereof; and the commission having found in said report on rehearing,
(1) that just, reasonable, and equitable divisions to be received,.
respectively, by complainants herein and the defendant carriers east
of Chicago, Joliet, or Dwight, Ill., out of the joint nontransit rates
on grain, grain products, and grain by-products, in carloads, from
Peoria and Pekin, Ill., via. Chicago, Joliet, or Dwight, to destinations
in eastern trunk-line and New England territories, east of Buffalo,
N. Y., over the lines of complainants to Chicago, Joliet, or Dwight,
will be the specific or arbitrary over the Chicago reshipping rate to

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

corporalion which acquired the line under the reorganization, Alton R. Co. Acquisition and Stock Issue, 175 I. C. C.
301), -iisists that by so denying relief the Commission
has, in view of the facts specifically found, subjected its
property to -confiscation; and on this ground seeks to have
that -part of the order set aside. .
,Lines of the Alton extend from Peoria to Chicago, Joliet
and Dwight, Illinois and at each of those cities connect
with railroads whose lines extend to the East. Peoria is
an important market for grain received from the West and
Northwest. At Peoria the grain goes into elevators.
There it may be sold and resold or it may be manufactured into grain products and by-products. Much of
the grain is later shipped from Peoria to the East in the
form of grain products and by-products. The transportation of grain consigned to Peoria is completed, however,
by the unloading of the cars there and the payment of
charges. The carriers serving Peoria have not established joint rates from such points of origin of the grain
complainants and the reshipping rate from Chicago to destination to
the carriers defendant east of Chicago; and (2) that the present divisibns of joint reshipping or proportional rates on grain, grain products,
and grain by-products, in carloads, from Peoria and Pekin over the
lines of complainanits to Chicago, Joliet, or Dwight, destined to points
in eastern trunk-line" and. New England territories east of Buffalo,
are not unjust, unreasonable, or otherwise unlawful as alleged by
complainants:
"It is ordered that the aforementioned original order of November
28, 1930, be, and it is hereby, vacated and set aside.
"It is further ordered that the above-named defendants, according
as they participate in the transportation, be, and they are hereby
notified and required to cease .and desist, on or before January 16,
'1932, and thereafter to abstain from demanding, collecting, or receiving divisions of the joint nontransit rates specified in the preceding
paragraph which do not allow said complainants the divisions found
in said reports to be just., reasonable, and equitable.
-. "And-it- is further ordered that this order shall continue in force
until the further order of the commission."

ALTON R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
229

Opinion of the Court.

to the East, with a transit 5rivilege. at Peoria. Compare
Central R. Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 247. But the
tariffs of outbound joint rates from Peoria to points east
of Buffalo, voluntarily established by the Alton and connecting railroads, provide for a lower scale of rates applicable, under certain conditions, to grain and the products
of grain which had a rail movement inbound from the
territory referred to. This lower scale is called "reshipping" rates; and the merchandise shipped thereunder is
called transit grain or'grain products.' The higher scale
applicable to other grain or grain products. is called
"local" rates. Compare Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Ry. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S. 768.
Until July 1, 1929, the. divisions of both classes of rates
were fixed by agreement of the Alton and the connecting
lines. Then, the connecting lines, without the sanction
of the Commission and over the protest of the Alton, reduced, for both classes of rates, the amounts paid to it as
divisions. The connecting lines were and are physically
in a position to deprive the Alton of a larger share by
"Reshipping rates from Peoria vary. somewhat with the point of
origin of the grain. A subsequent outbound shipment of grain or its
products may be from a shipment which did not move inbound from
the territory above referred to. But the shipper, in order to avail
himself of the reshipping rates on outbound grain, grain products or
by-products, must establish the fact that he sent an equivalent
amount of like grain from the point of origin to Peoria within the
twelve-month period allowed for transit privileges. This proof is
made by the presentation of paid freight bills as memoranda of the
inbound shipments. Compare Surrendered Tonnage Slips at Transit
Points, 77 I. C. C. 239. The inbound and outbound shipments are
carried under separate bills of lading; the final destination of. the
grain is usually undetermined at the time of the inbound shipment.
In this respect the practice differs from that of through shipment
with transit privileges. 'On the prevalence, legality, and possible
abuses of both reshipping rates and through rates with transit privileges, see Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S. 768,
777-780, and cases there cited

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

reason of the fact that the freight is collected at the destinations and distributed by the collecting carrier. The
haul on the Alton outbound from Peoria is from 82 to
155 miles, dependent upon the route selected. The divisions constitute the only revenue received by the Alton
for the service performed by it under the "reshipping"
rates. Under the reduced allowances the Alton does not
receive on any shipment more than 2 cents per 100 pounds
and on many shipments it receives nothing.' The Com'As stated in note 3, supra, the reshipping rates from Peoria to the
East vary with the points of origin of the grain or grain product.
Thus the reshipping.rate from Peoria to New York on grain originating in the Northwest is 30.5 cents per 100 pounds, while that on
grain originating in the Illinois-Iowa territory is 32.5 cents. On
grain originating at other points the rates fall somewhere between
these two figures. The outbound reshipping rate from Chicago to
New York, with exceptions not material here, is 30.5 cents irrespective of the point of origin. The inbound rates to Chicago and to
Peoria are the same on shipments from the Illinois-Iowa territory,
but on shipments from the Northwest the inbound rate to Peoria is
2 cents less than to Chicago; and on shipments from other points the
difference is less than 2 cents.- It is evident that the outbound reshipping rates from Peoria, varying as they do with the point of origin
of the grain, are designed to equalize the total rate from point of
origin .to final destination, whether Peoria or Chicago is taken as the
place for utilizing 'transit privileges. Stated in general terms, where
the rate to Peoria is less than that to Chicago, the rate from Peoria
ii correspondingly greater than that from Chicago. In no case is
this excess of outbound rate from Peoria over that from Chicago
more than 2 cents per 100 pounds; and in some cases there is no
*excess. It is this excess, if any exists, of the rate from Peoria over
the 30.5 bent rate from Chicago that constitutes the share being paid
to the Alton by the connecting lines out of the joint rate from Peoria
to New York. The connecting carriers invariably retain 30.5 cents
as their own share, leaving the Alton a maximum of 2 cents per 100
pounds as its allotment. In some instances-specifically, on shipments of grain whose origin was in the Northwest-the Alton receives
nothing, although it may have hauled the grain over its line from
Peoria 155 miles.

ALTON R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
229

Opinion of the Court.

mission did not suggest that the divisions so received
could- be deemed compensatory for the outbound haul.
It justified its conclusion that the divisions were not "unjust, unreasonable, or otherwise unlawful" on the ground
that the transportation service for the performance of
which the Alton sought increased divisions was not of importance to the public; and that if the Alton desired to
participate in the transportation and was dissatisfied with
the share allotted, it should secure in some way allowances
from the carriers which bring the grain into Peoria.
The District Court, three judges sitting, did: not consider the merits of the controversy. It dismissed the bill
on the ground- that the part of the order complained of
was negative in character; and that .hence the court was
without jurisdiction. The case is here on direct appeal.
Whether the order is a negative one within the meaning
of the rule, compare Procter & Gamble Co. v. United
States, 225 U. S. 282; United States v. Los Angeles & Salt
Lake R. Co., 273 U. S. 299, is the main question requiring
decision. The Alton concedes that courts have ordinarily
no power to review a finding of the Commission that a
particular division is not unreasonable or inequitable.
The Alton's contention is that while the joint -rates are in
force it is obliged to accept traffic under them; that until
the Commission decides otherwise it is entitled to the
divisions agreed upon when the joint rates were established; that the order of the Commission in approving the
reduced allowance to the Afiton made by the connecting
carriers in effect established new divisions; and that since
these are obviously confiscatory, the order is void.
First. The order while negative in form was, in effect,
an affirmative one. The joint "reshipping" rates and
the divisions thereof were established by agreement of
the carriers participating in the transportation. The divisions were a term of that agreement. So long as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

joint rates voluntarily established remain in force, each
carrier is entitled as of right to the division originally
agreed upon, unless a readjustment of the divisions has
been made either by the parties or by the Commission
-pursuant'to the power conferred by paragraph 6 of §-15.
The connecting carriers were legally without power to reduce the divisions of the Alton over its objection. If they
deemed its divisions unreasonably large, they could have
invoked the power of the Commission to make a reduction.
Instead. of applying to the Commission to adjust the
existing divisions they resorted to force. Availing them,selves of their strategic position as collectors of the freight,
they withheld from the Alton a part of what was due it.
The Alton might have sued at law for the part of the
divisions wrongfully withheld. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co.
v. Bolinger & Co., 17 F. (2d) 924; compare Malvern &
F. V. R. Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P.-Ry. Co., 182 Fed. 685.
But that was not its only remedy. Under § 15 (6) it was
entitled to invoke the jurisdiction of the Commission.5
I could, obviously, have applied to the Commission to
have the agreed divisiois increased; and, likewise, it was
entitled to apply to secure a determination that the agreed
divisions shall be maintained. The Commission was not
at liberty to decline to exercise its jurisdiction. Paragraph
6 imposed upon it the obligation to act upon the complaint. Colmpare New EiglandDivisions Case, 261 U. S.
'In its complaint to the Commission, the Alton charged that the
divisions allotted to it were unjust and unreasonable and in violation
of the Iiiterstate Commerce -Act, as amended. The Commission has
held that it has no authority to enforce agreements for divisions,
apart from a showing of such violation of the Act. Laona & Northern
R. Co. v. Minneapolis, St. P. & S. Ste. M. Ry. Co., 52 I. C. C. 7;
compare Morgantown & Wheeling Ry. Co. v: Pennsylvania R. Co.,
63 I. C. C. 197. Section 208 (b) of Transportation Act, 1920, provides: "All divisions of joint rates, fares, or charges, which on February 29, 1920, are in effect between the lines of, carriers subject
to the Interstate Commerce Act, shall continue in force and effect

ALTON A. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
229

237

Opinion of the Court.

184; United States v. Abileie & Southern Ry. Co., 265 U.
S. 274. 'The Commission's finding that the Alton's divisions were "not unjust, unreasonable or otherwise uflaw-'
ful," and the refusal of relief, had the effect of reducing
the divisions which had been fixed by agreement of the
parties and to which, but for the Commission's action,
the Alton would have continued to be legally entitled.
Second. The jurisdiction of courts to review orders of
the Commission is not dependent upon the form in which

the order is couched. If the eastern carriers had applied
to the Commission for a change in the divisions fied by
agreement, and the Commission had authorized divisions

precisely like those which they are now imposing upon
the Alton by their unauthorized action, the order would
have been affirmative in form and would obviously have
been subject to attack by the Alton in a suit in the federal court. By their unauthorized action the connecting
carriers forced the Alton to become the moving party before the Commission, with the result that the Commission's approval of the divisions effected by them was ex-.
pressed in the form of a refusal to interfere. This result
of the alignment of parties does not endow the Commission's order with immunity from judicial review.
An order of the Commission which denies relief in part,
or which dismisses the complaint, may be reviewed by a
court. Intermo'Jntain Rate Cases, 234 U. S. 476, 490;
United States v. New River Co., 265- U. S. 533, 539-541.
until thereafter changed by mutual agreement between the interested
carriers or by State or Federal authorities, respectively." The purpose
of this provision, as stated by Chairman Esch of the House Committee
on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, was to prevent rates and
divisions from reverting, ipso facto, upon termination of federal control, to their pre-control status. See H. R. No. 456, 66th Cong.,
1st Sess., p. 12; 58 Cong. Rec., p. 8314. The Commission has held
that this provision did not confer authority upon it to enforce agreements for divisions. Hampton & Branchville R. Co. v. Atlantic
Coast Line R. Co., 88 I. C. C. 77, 84..

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

To annul the order would not, as in Lehigh Valley R. ,Co.
v. United States, 243 U. S. 412, merely leave unchanged
the very situation which the Commission's order refused to
alter. Here the Alton, by virtue of the preexisting agreement for divisions, would secure a measure of protection
simply from the annulment of the order. To take jurisdiction would not be- tantamount to usurpation by the
court of the functions of the Commission. The court is
not called upon here, as it was in Manufacturers Ry. Co.
v. United State', 246 U. S. 457, 483, and Standard Oil Co.
v. United States, 283 U. S. 235, 241, to afford relief which
the Commission, in the exercise of its powers, had found
that the complainant was not entitled to receive.' The
court is not asked to prescribe reasonable divisions, or to
Compare also Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States, 225 U. S.
282, in which the petition in the Commerce Court included a prayer
that the defendant railroads be enjoined from collecting demurrage
charges on the complainant's tank cars while on its own tracks-the
relief which the Commission had refused to grant.
.After the decision in the Procter & Gamble case, eleven cases
pending in the Commerce Court were dismissed by -it for want of.
jurisdiction. In five of these the Commission had refused to award
reparation; in three it had refused to order the establishment of
through routes and joint rates; in one it had refused both an award of
reparation and the establishment of through routes and joint rates;
in one it'had dismissed a complaint challenging the lawfulness of
rates; and in one it had dismissed a complaint attacking an advanced
rate as unreasonable. See Twenty-sixth Ann. Rep, I. C. C., pp. 34,
202-205.
The Commission thus understood the import of the Procter &
Gamble decision: "Its [this Court's] conclusion was that upon the
plain reading of that statute the jurisdiction of the court was confined
to restraining the operation of the orders of the Commission and
that it possessed no affirmative authority to enforce the administrative provisions of that act. . . . The central thought to be gathered
from this exposition of the law seems to be that the administrative
Audgment of the Commission, as expressed by its orders, can not be
rviewed by the courts, in so far as they are within its delegated
authority, not c6nfiscatory, and not palpably arbitrary and unreasonable." Id., pp. 24, 27.

ALTON-R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
229

Opinion of the Court.

direct that they be prescribed by the Commission.7 The
court is asked to find that the Commission denied the
Alton a constitutional right as a result of acting upon
erroneous principles of law, and therefore to enjoin that
part of the order.
The determination of the questions presented is properly within the scope of judicial review of the Commission's orders. The questions are not the correutness of
its conclusion as to the reasonableness of the divisioas, or
the correctness of its findings as to any of the factors
which the Act direct it to consider in determining reasonableness. The question is the correctness of the legal
principles adopted by the Commission as a basis for
reaching a conclusion from its findings. The Commission
reasoned that since the particular transportation services
of the Alton here in question were not of importance to
the public, and since the Alton was in substance an intermediate, not an originating carrier, it might be denied a
compensatory share of the existing joint rates with the
defendant carriers. Whether the "importance to the
public of the transportation services of such carriers,". as
specified in the Act, means the hnportance of the particular services in question, and whether a carrier not participating in joint rates with inbound roads is an "intermediate line" within the meaning of the section dealing
with divisions, are questions upon which a court may
properly pass. So too is the more fundamental question
whether, assuming the Commission was correct in its
construction of the Act, it follows that a noncompensatory share of existing joint rates may be imposed. Upon
these~euestions the Alton was entitled to invoke the judg'Compare Hooker v. Knapp, 225 U. S. 302, in which a mandatory
injunction was asked requiring the Commission to annul its order
and reopen the case. The bill was dismissed on the authority of
Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States, 225 U. S. 282. Compare also,
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Waste Merchants Association,
260 U. S. 32,

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

ment of the court. Compare Southern Ry. Co. v. St.
Louis Hay Co., 214.U. S. 297, 301; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 433, 449.
Third. The defendants contend that what is sought to
be enjoined is not an "order" within the meaning of the
Urgent Deficiencies Act. That contention is unsound.
The action of the Commission presents none of the characteristics which have led this Court in other cases to
hold that there was want of jurisdiction. It is part of an
order, compare United States v. Atlanta, B. & C. R. Co.,
282 U. S. 522, 527; and the order is final, not tentative.
Compare Delaware & Hudson Co. v. United States, 266
U. S.438, 448. It was entered as the result of a formal
controversy, not a project of the Commission, compare
United States v. Los .Angeles & Salt Lake R. Co.,
273 U. S. 299; and it marked the disposition of
the controversy, not a preliminary stage. Compare
United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 244 U. S. 82.8
The suit to enjoin. the order is not premature. Compare
Piedmont & Northern Ry. Co. v. United States, 280 U. S.
469. It subjects the Alton to damage which is substantial,
immediate and irreparable. If the order is allowed to
stand, and. the eastern carriers continue to retain their
present share of the joint rates, the Alton's only redress
will be a subsequent complaint before the Commission.
Even if the Commission should then decide that the existing divisions are unreasonable, it might be powerless to
award reparafion for the period from the gntry of the
present order. Brimstone R. Co. v. United States, 276
U. S. 104,121.
The decree of the District Court dismissing the bill for
want of jurisdiction is reversed, and the cause remanded
to it for further proceedings.
Reversed.
'Compare also, New York, 0. & W. Ry. Co. v. United States, 14 F.
(2d) 850, affirmed per curiam 273 U. S. 652.

