EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
Counsel for the United States.

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
PETITION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 19, original. Argued November 7, 1932.-Decided December 5,
1932.

1. This Court has full power in its discretion to issue the writ of
mandamus to a federal district court although the case be one in
respect of which direct appellate jurisdiction is vested in the circuit eburt of appeals-this Court having- ultimate discretionary
jurisdiction by certiorari-, but such power will be exercised only
where a question of Public importance is involved, or where the
question is of such a nature that it is peculiarly appropriate that
such action by this Court should be taken. Pp. 245, 248.
2. Appliction by the Government for a mandamus to require a
federal 'district court to issue a bench warraidt upon an indictment
regularly found and fair on its face, held within the appellate
jurisdiction of this Court. P. 249.
3. A district court, when asked by the Government to issue a bench
warrant upon an indictment fair on its face and returned to it
by its duly constituted grand jury, has no discretion to refuse.
P. 249.
4. In the court to which the indictment is returned, the finding of
anoindictment, fair upon its face, by a properly constituted grand
jury, conclusively determines the existence of probable cauise for
the purpose of holding the accused to answer. P. 250.
Mandamus granted.

PETITION for a writ of mandamus requiring a District
Court and its judge to set aside an order denying an application for a bench warrant. An opinion of the court
below is reported sub nom. United States v. .Wingert,55
F. (2d) 960. The hearing in this Court was upon the
petition and the return to an order to show cause.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant At-

torney General Dodds and Messrs. Win. H. Ramsey and
Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief,, for the United
States.

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for the United States.

287 U.S.

When an indictment has been returned, fair on its face
and charging an offense within the jurisdiction of the
court, the issuance of a bench warrant does not depend
upon the exercise of judicial discretion.
A warrant of arrest may be sought from a magistrate
prior to indictment upon the complaint of any person,
either officer or citizen. In such a case it is plainly the
magistrate's duty to determine whether the facts presented to him constitute probable cause for the issuance
of a warrant. Such a determination involves the exercise
of judicial discretion, and the magistrate is, of course, not
subject to mandamus when he is acting in the legitimate
exercise of his discretion. M\Iany of the cases relied upon
in respondent's brief relate to this situation and are
obviously'not pertinent here.
A warrant may be sought for the purpose of removing
a person charged with crime from one district to another.
Here again the question before the magistrate is one of
probable cause.
Or a warrant of arrest may be sought, as in this case, to
bring the accused into court after indictment. None
of the cases cited by respondent's counsel relates to 'this
question, and we know of none which directly decides it.
See In re Davis, 107 N. J. Eq. 160, 175, 178; State v.
Gordon, 18 La. Ann. 528; Shaw v. Commonwealth, 1
Duval 1. The duty to issue the warrant in such a case
has long been recognized without question in our law. 1
Chitty, Crim. L., 339-340; 1 Archbold, Crim. Pro., 103; 2
Hale, Pleas of the Crown, 198-199; American L. Inst.,
Code of Crim. Pro., 1930 Official Draft, § 195. In many
of the States, by statute, the warrant is issued by the
clerk or district attorney, without any order of court.
That the duty of the district court to issue a bench
warrant on an indictment is not discretionary, is plainly
indicated by United States v. Thompson, 251 U. S. 407,
412-413; Ex parte United States, 242 U. S. 27, 42. It is
a purely ministerial duty.

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
241

Argument for Respondent.

The Fifth Amendment contemplates the issuance of a
bench warrant after an indictment has been found. The
Fourth and Fifth Amendments are in pari materia (Boyd
v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 633), and must be read
and construed together.
The lack of a preliminary hearing is not a sufficient
reason for refusing to issue a bench warrant.
Mr. Francis BiddIe for respondent.
Mandamus will not issue to compel performance of a
discretionary act. It should not be used for an appeal
or writ of error. American Condtruction Co. v. Jacksonville Ry. Co., 148 U. S. 372. It does not follow that because the United States can not appeal, mandamus is a
remedy.
A bench warrant issues on probable cause. Benson v.
Henkel, 198 U. S. 1, 16; Price v. Henkel, 216 U. S. 488;
Hughes v. Gault, 271 U. S. 142.
Cases cited by the United States deal with petitions
for removal. I can find no cases specifically holding that
an indictment furnishes probable cause for the issuance
of a warrant of arrest, although such seems to be the
practice. Informations, unsupported by affidavit, do not
furnish -the necessary grounds. United States v. Tureaud,
20 Fed. 621; Johnston v. United Stdtes, 87 Fed. 187;
United States y. Baumert, 179 Fed. 735; Weeks v. United
States, 216 Fed. 292; United States v. Michalski, 265
Fed. 839. Finding probable cause for the issuance of a
search warrant is a judicial function. United States v.
Harnich, 289 Fed. 256.
. SeeUnited States v. Judge Lawrence, 3 Dall. 42, where
the arguments are reported at length.
Compare, against the power to mandamus, Washington ex rel. Romano v. Yakey, 43 Wash. 15; People v.
McGuire, 151 App. Div. (N. Y.) 413, 415; DeGraff v.
State, 2 Okla. Crim. 519; United States v. Ocampo, 18
Philippine 1, 42; In re Broom, 18 Can. Cr. Cas. 254.

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

Contra: Benners v. State, 124 Ala. 97; Attorney General
ex rel. v. Police Justice, 40 Mich. 631; Nebraska ex ret. v.
McCutcheon, 20 Neb. 304; State ex rel. v. Laughlin, 75
Mo. 358. Some of these may be explained on the theory
that the magistrate or. lower court had refused to act.
Cf. Regina v. Adamson, 1 Q. B. D. 201 (1876); Rex v.
Brothers, 85 L. T. 581 (1901); Rex v. Kennedy, 86 L. T.
753 (1902); Ex parte Burtis, 103 U. S. 238.
The question of where the writ of mandamus should
issue, if at all, is not here raised, as a decision of the
judge's power is desired. But because no appeal could
be taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals from this interlocutory order, does not mean that the case is not within
the "appellate jurisdiction" of that court. And it may
be doubted whether this Court has power to issue the
writ where its jurisdiction is neither original nor appellate.
In re Massachusetts,197 U. S. 482; In re Glaser, 198 U. S.
171. For a recent discussion see In re Babcock, 26 F. (2d)
153. The true test is the existence of the jurisdiction, and
not its prior invocation. Barber Asphalt Co. v. Morris,
132 Fed. 945, 955; McClung v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598;
Bath County v. Amy, 13 Wall. 244; McClellan v. Carland,
217 U. S. 268; Delaware,L. & W. R. Co. v. Rellstab, 276
U.S. 1. For cases which held that the appellate jurisdiction had to be actually invoked, see Muir v. Chatfield,
255 Fed. 24; United States v. Judges, 85 Fed. 177. If the
judgment is appealable, mandamus will not lie; nor even
where there is no appeal, unless it appears'that the court
below had refused to act. Ex parte Newman, 14 Wall.
152.
"MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an application for a writ of mandamus requiring the federal district judge sitting in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
241

Opinion of the Court.

and the court itself to set aside an order denying a petition
of the United States attorney for the issue of a bench
warrant for the arrest of Joseph V. Wingert, [see United
States v. Wingert, 55 F. (2d) 960] and directing that
such bench warrant be issued. The case is here for decision upon the return of the court and judge, to a rule to
show cause why the application for the writ should not be
granted. The facts follow.
On March 10, 1932, a grand jury for the district, duly
empaneled, returned an indictment against Wingert,
charging him with violating certain provisions of the
banking laws of the United States. No question is raised
as to the regularity of the proceedings before the grand
jury, or as to the sufficiency of the indictment. On March
22, the tnited States attorney- presented to the court a
written petition praying that a bench warrant issue for
Wingert's arrest. The district court,. with nothing before it, so far as the record discloses, but the petition and
the indictment, denied the petition and refused to issue
the warrant. The sole ground alleged in the return for
such denial is that the matter was within the judicial
discretion of the court, and, therefore, not subject to mandamus proceedings.
1. It first is necessary to determine whether under these
facts we have jurisdiction to issue the writ. Section 716,
Rev. Stats. (§ 262 of the Judicial. Code, U. S. C., Title 28,
§ 377), provides that this court and other federal courts
"shall have power to issue all writs not specifically provided.for by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their .respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the
usageg and principles of law." As early as 1831 it was
settled that this court had power to issue a mandamus directed to a federal circuit court commanding that court to
sign a bill of exceptions, such action being in the nature
of appellate jurisdiction. Ex parte Crane, 5 Pet. 190, 193.
in Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch .137, 175, it was held

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

that to warrant the issue of a mandamus by this court, in
cases where original jurisdiction had not been conferred
by the Constitution (see Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How.
66, 97), it must be shown to be an exercise of appellaL,
jurisdiction, or to be necessary to enable the court to exercise its appellate jurisdiction. .M1cClellan v. Carland,217
U. S. 268, 280, laid down the general rule applicable both
to this court and to the circuit courts of appeals, that the
power to issue the writ under R. S. § 716 is not limited to
cases wliere its issue is required in aid of a jurisdiction already obtained, but that "where a case is within the appellate jurisdiction of the higher court a writ of mandamus
may issue in aid of the appellate jurisdiction which might
otherwise be defeated by the unauthorized action of the
court below." See also Dclawarc, L. & IT. R. Co. v. Rellstab, 276 U. S. 1, 5; In re Babcock, 26 F. (2d) 153, 155;
Barber Asphalt Paving Co. v. Morris, 132 Fed. 945, 952956.
Perhaps it would be enough to satisfy the test afforded
by these decisions to point to the limited authority of this
court under c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, U. S. C., Title 18, § 682
(U. S. C. Title 28, § 345) to exercise direct appellate jurisdiction to review a decision of the district court in the
possible event that some action of that court might give
rise to a right of review at the instance of the government.
We prefer, however, to put our determination upon the
broader ground that, even if the appellate jurisdiction of
this court could not in any view be immediately and directly invoked, the issue of the writ may rest upon the
ultimate power which we have to review the case itself by
certiorari to the circuit court of appeals in which such immediate and direct appellate jurisdiction is lodged.
It is true this court has held that it was without authority to issue a writ of mandamus to the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, because, since the creation
of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, this

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
241

Opinion of the Court.

court could not review the judgments and decrees of the
supreme court of the district directly by appeal or writ
of error. In re Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 482. And see
also In re GIaser, 198 U. S. 171. Assuming that an application of those decisions to the present case would*
necessitate a denial of the writ, later cases clearly indicate
that the rule as thus limited no longer obtains. In McClellan v. Carland,supra, p. 279, this court significantly
suggested that it should be slow to reach a conclusion
which would have the result of depriving the court -of the
power to issue the writ in proper cases to review the action of the federal courts inferior in jurisdiction to itself.
And in Ex parte Abdu, .247 U. S. 27, 28, Mr. Chief Justice
White, speaking for the court, said:
"The existence of ultimate discretionary power here to
review the cause on its merits and the deterrent influence
which the refusal to Ale must have upon the practical'
exertion of that power in a case properly made gives the
authority 1o consider the subject which the rule presents."
This statement, it is true, related to the refusal of a
circuit court of appeals to direct its clerk to file the record
in an appeal from a. district court; but it was followed
broadly in Los Angeles Brush Corp. v. James, 272 U. S.
701. In that case an application for mandamus was made
to this court to compel a district court to hear a patent
case, instead of referring it to a master, in alleged violation
of Equity Rules 46 and 59. This court, after pointing
out thaf the hearing of the cause in review would normally be had in the circuit court of appeals and could come
here only in due course by certiorari, and saying that it
was unnecessary to decide whether the writ would issue
direct to the district cour" in matters as to which the circuit court of appeals would or should ordinarily have
power to issue a mandamus to the same end in aid of its
appellate jurisdiction, continued (p. 706):

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

"However that may be, we think it clear that where the
subject concerns the enforcement of the Equity Rules
which by law it is the duty of this Court to formulate and
put in force, and in a. case in which this Court has the
ultimate discretion to review tlhe case on its merits, it may
use its power of mandamus and deal directly with the District Court in requiring it to conform to them. Ex parte
Abdu, 247 U. S. 27, 28; Ex parte Crane, 5 Peters 190, 192,
193, 194. This is not to say that in every case where the
Equity Rules are the subject of interpretation and enforcement in the District Court, such questions may as of
course be brought here and considered in a direct proceeding in mandamus. The question of thus using the writ of
mandamus would be a matter of discretion in this Court,
and it would decline to exercise its power where the issue
might more properly come up by mandamus in an intermediate appellate court or in regular proceedings on review. If it clearly appeared, however, that a practice
had been adopted by district judges, as.to the order or
procedure in hearing causes, at variance with the equity
rules, our writ might well issue directly to such judges."
In other, and readily distinguishable, cases where the
direct appellate jurisdiction was vested in the circuit court
of appeals, this court, in the exercise of its discretion, has
declined to issue the writ and relegated the applicant to
his remedy in that court. Ex parte Apex Electric Mfg.
Co., 274 U. S. 725; Ex parte Daugherty, 282 U. S. 809;
Ex parteKrentler-Arnold Hinge Last Co., 286 U. S. 533.
The rule deducible from the later decisions, and which
we now affirm, is, that this court has full power in its discretion to issue the writ of mandamus to a federal district
court, although the case be one in respect of which direct
appellate jurisdiction is vested in the circuit court of appeals-this court having ultimate discretionary jurisdiction by certiorari-but that such power will be exercised
only where a question of public importance is involved, or

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
241

249

Opinion of the Court.

where the question is of such a nature that it is peculiarly
appropriate that such action by this court should be taken.
In other words, application for the writ ordinarily must
be made to the intermediate appellate court, and made to
this court as the court of ultimate review only in such exceptional cases. That the present case falls within the
latter description seems clear. The effect of the refusal
of the district court to issue a warrant upon an indictment
fair upon its face and properly found and returned is
equivalent to a denial of the absolute right of the government, as matters stand, to put the accused on trial, since
that cannbt be done in his absence. The mere statement
discloses the gravity and public importance of the question. It is obvious that if a like attitude should be taken
by district courts generally, serious interference with the
prosecution of persons indicted for criminal offenses might
result. Undoubtedly, upon the theory presented by the
government, mandamus is the appropriate remedy; and
the writ may well issue from this court in order to expedite
the settlement of the important question involved, and,
incidentally, in furtherance of the general policy of a
prpmpt trial and disposition of criminal cases. Accordingly, we pass to a consideration of the merits.
2. The theory of the court below is that its denial of the
petition of the government for a bench warrant was an
exercise of its judicial discretion, and, therefore, not reviewable by mandamus. This view of the matter cannot
be sustained. The question whether there was probable
cause for putting the accused on trial was for the grand
jury to determine, and the indictment being, fir on its
face, the court to which it was returned, upon the appli-'
cation of the United States attofney, should have issued
the warrant as a matter of course. Cases are cited said to
be to the contrary, but they are not in point. They are
either cases where the warrant was sought from a magistrate upon complaint in the absence of an indictment, or

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

was sought under the removal statute, R. S. § i014, U. S.
C., Title 18, § 591. Obviously, the first named cases are
without application. In cases arising under the removal
statute the indictment is produced and considered not as
a basic pleading, but merely as evidence establishing or
tending to establish the commission of the offense and
which may or may not settle the question of probable cause.
In the trial court to which the indictment has been returned it is "the very foundation of the charge." Benson
v. Henkel, 198 U. S. 1, 12; Morse v. United States, 267
U. S. 80, 83; Fetters v. United States, 283 U. S. 638, 642.
It reasonably cannot be doubted that, in the court to
which the indictment is returned, the finding of an indictment, fair upon its face, by a properly constituted grand
jury, conclusively determines the existence of probable
cause for the purpose of holding the accused to answer.
Compare McGrain v. Daugherty,273 U. S. 135, 156-158;
Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 60-62. The refusal of the
trial court to issue a warrant of arrest under such circumstances is, in reality and effect, a refusal to permit the
case to come to a hearing upon either questions of law or
of fact, and falls little short of a refusal to permit the
enforcement of the law. The authority conferred upon
the trial judge to issue a warrant of arrest upon an indictment does not, under the circumstances here disclosed,
carry with it the power to decline to do so under the
guise of judicial discretion; or, as this court suggested in
Ex parte United States, 242 U. S. 27, 42, the power to
enforce does not inherently beget a discretion permanently to refuse to enforce. In United States v. Thompson, 251 U. S. 407, an order of a federal district court
quashing an indictment on the ground that the charge,
having been submitted to a previous grand jury, had been
resubmitted to a later one without leave of court first obtained, .was set aside. This court there said that the
power and duty of the grand jury to investigate is original

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
.241

Syllabus.

and complete, and may be exercised upon its own motion
and upon such knowledge as it may derive from any
source which it may deem proper, and is not exhausted
or limited by adverse action taken by a previous grand
jury, and that a United States district attorney may present, without leave of court, charges which a previous
grand jury has ignored. The necessary effect of the district
court's order, it was said (pp. 412-413), "was to bar the
absolute right of the United States to prosecute by subjecting the exercise of that right, not only as to this indictment but as to all subsequent ones for the same-offenses, to a limitation resulting from the exercise of the
judicial power," and to bar the lawful authority of the
United States attorney and of the grand jury "by the
application of unauthorized judicial discretion." These
observations are pertinent here.
Rule made absolute.

STEPHENSON

ET

Ar. v. BINFORD ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 326. Argued November 14, 15, i932.-Decided December
5, 1932.

1. The highways of a State are public property, the primary and
preferred use of which is for private purposes; their use for
purposes of gain may generally be prohibited by the legislature or
conditioned as it sees fit. P. 264.
2. Texas statute regulating carriers on highways, considered and
held not open to the objection that it forces private carriers to
assume the duties and burdens of common carriers. Pp. 265-269.
3. Unregulated use of the public highways by a vast and ionstantly
growing number of private contract carriers operating motor
trucks, had the effect of greatly decreasing the freight which
would be carried by railroads within the State, and, in consequence, of adding to the burden upon the highways. Held:

