404

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

complainants' oil production, otherwise lawful. Complainants had a constitutional right to resort to the federal court to have the validity of the Commission's orders
judicially determined. There was no exigency which justified the Governor in attempting to enforce by executive
or military order the restriction which the District Judge
had restrained j ending proper judicial inquiry. If it be
assumed that the Governor was entitled to declare a state
of insurrection and to bring military force to the aid of
civil authority, the proper use of -that power in this instance was to maintain the federal court in the exercise
of its jurisdiction and not to attempt to override it; to
aid in making its process effective and not to nullify it;
to remove, and not to create, obstructions .to the exercise
by the complainants of their rights as judicially declared.
It is also plain that there was no adequate remedy at law
for the redress of the injury and, as the evidence showed
that the Governor's orders were an invasion under color
of state law of rights secured by the Federal Constitution,
the District Court did not err in granting the injunction.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed.
No. 11, appeal dismissed.
No. 458, judgment affirmed.
DALTON LT AL. v. BOWERS, EXECUTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT

-No. 52w Argued November 14, 1932.-Decided December 12, 1932.
1. Under the Revenue Act of 1924, § 206, a loss not "attributable to
the operation of a trade or business regularly carried on by the taxpayer" isnot deductible in computing his net income for the year
following that in which the loss occurred. P. 409.
*2. As a general rule for tax purposes a corporation is an entity dis-,

tinct from its stockholders. P. 410.

DALTON v. BOWERS.
404

Opinion of the Court.

3. A taxpayer organized a corporation for the purpose. of manufacturing and marketing his patented articles. lHe purchased all of
the capital stock, expecting to sell the shares at a profit. He took
active charge of the affairs of the corporation, but his individual
time was devoted in large part to matters of invention. The corporation's business was unprofitable from the start, and the taxpayer withdrew no money from it. From time to time he made
loans to the corporation to pay its debts and carry on its business;
these loans appeared on its books, unpaid; credits were placed to
his salary account; the corporation and he filed separate income
tax returns; in his personal return he -had claimed a reduction on
account of bad debts due from it. The business failed and the
corporation was dissolved. In his return for 1925 the taxpayer
claimed as a loss deductible for that year the amount paid for the
capital stock. Held:
The loss was not "attributable to the operation of a trade or
business regularly carried on by the taxpayer," within the meaning
of § 206 of the Revenue Act of 1924, and, having been sustained in
1924, could not be offset against a gain in 1925. Pp. 409-410.
56 F. (2d) 16, affirmed.
CERTIORARi, 286 U. S. 541, to review a judgment which
reversed a judgment of the district court in favor of the
petitioners here in an action to recover money paid as
income taxes.
Mr. Arnold Lichtig for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, and Messrs. Whitney North
Seymour, Sewall Key, and John H. McEvers were on the
brief, for respondent.
Mr. JusTIcE McRY o 1 s delivered the opinion of the
Court..
For twenty-five years petitioner Dalton has busied himself with physical research and invention; he has devised
and patented hundreds of articles. A large income from
sundry sources has enabled him to lay out considerable
sums in connection with his inventions; the inventions

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

brought in no net profit after 1914. During the five years
following 1912 he caused the organization of six separate
corporations and transferred to each certain patents for
exploitation. The last of these-the Dalton Manufacturing Corporation-was incorporated under the laws of
New York in 1917; he paid for all the capital stock$395,000.00; became a director, president, treasurer and
controlled its affairs. No other person was financially
interested. He testified that his primary purpose in this
venture was to perfect his sundry models and patented
articles and sell the corporate shares profitably; he
thought it would be better to market such articles through
the corporation, to have the business in corporate form;
he considered the corporation as a branch or part of his
own business as an inventor and dealer in patents, etc.as a means to an end, an instrumentality of his purpose.
Also, that he believed it essential thus to have his inventions mahufactured and brought before the public;
the corporations were used in order to develop and improve his inventions.
The Manufacturing Corporation promptly took over
certain Dalton patents, manufactured the articles and
sought to sell them. The petitioner endeavored to sell
the corporate shares and thereby to obtain gain. From
time to time he advanced large sums to pay debts and
carry on the corporate business. These loans appeared
on the books, but were not repaid. For six years credits
were placed to his salary account; he withdrew nothing.
In 1924 the Corporation became hopelessly insolvent and
during 1925 passed out of existence. The evidence indicates losses during several preceding years. All creditors
were paid by petitioner.
The Corporation and Dalton made separate returns for
federal income taxes. In 1923 and 1924 he claimed large
deductions-$157,035.50 and $162,309.24-on account of
bad debts due from it.

DALTON v. BOWERS.
404

407 -

Opinion of the Court.

In their joint income return for 1925 Dalton and his
wife claimed a deduction of $395,000-the full amount
paid for the then worthless shares of the Manufacturing
Corporation. The Commissioner ruled that this loss occurred in 1924. Adjustments for that year showed $374,000.00 net loss by the Daltons. The Commissioner refused to apply this upon their 1925 return because not
attributable to the operation of a trade or business regularly carried on by the taxpayer. If so applied, there
would have been no taxable income for that year. Payment of $56,841.32 was demanded and made under protest. This suit to recover followed.
Petitioners maintain that the $395,000.00 loss, adjudged
by the Commissioner to have occurred in 1924, was sustained in a trade or business regularly carried on by
Mr. Dalton; consequently, the net loss for that year$374,078.98-should have been deducted from the 1925
income under terms of the Revenue Act of 1924, § 206
(a) and (b), and Treasury Regulations 65, Article 1621.
The District Court accepted their view; the Circuit Court
of Appeals held otherwise. 56 F. (2d) 16.
The latter court said [p. 18]"There is no justification for saying that the business
of the corporation was that of the appellee. During the
period the appellee dealt with the corporation as an entity.
When he paid the debts of the corporation, he drew on
his personal account in favor of the corporation's account
and this made the corporation his debtor. Separate tax
returns were filed by the corporation and by the appellee.
He purchased the capital stock with the intention of disposing of it to the public. His individual time was spent
in large part in matters of invention. ..

. The loss now

sought to be deducted was an investment which he made
in the corporation and did not occur in the operation of
the trade or business regularly carried on by the
appellee ....

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

"By the statute, allowing the deductions and carrying
over the loss for two years, Congress intended to give
relief to persons engaged in an established business for
losses incurred during a year of depression in order to
equalize taxation in the two succeeding and *more profitable years. It was not intended to apply to occasional or
isolated losses ...
"This taxpayer did not regard the business losses of
the Dalton Manufacturing Company as his loss. The loss
sustained by the appellee which he seeks to charge off is a
capital investment loss. The rule is well settled that the
corporation will be looked upon as a legal entity ...
"
We agree with the conclusion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals and its judgment must be affirmed.
The Revenue Act of 1924, c. 234, 43 Stat. 253, 260,
(U. S. C., Title 26, § 937), provides"Sec. 206. (a), As used in this section the term 'net
loss' means the excess of -the deductions allowed by. section 214 or 234 over the gross income, with the following
exceptions and limitations:
"(1) Deductions otherwise allowed by law'not attributable to the operation of a trade or business regularly
carried on by the axpayer shall be allowed only to the
extent of the amount of the gross income not derived from
such trade or business;
"(2) In the case of.a taxpayer other than a corporation, deductions for capital losses otherwise allowed by
law shall be allowed only to the extent of the capital
gains; . . .
*"(b) If, for any taxable year, it appears upon the production of evidence satisfactory to the Commissioner that
any taxpayer has sustained a net loss, the amount thereof
shall be allowed as a deduction in computing the net income of the taxpayer for the succeeding taxable year
(hereinafter in this section called 'second yfear'), a nd if
such net loss is in excesg of such net income (computed

DALTON v. BOWERS.
404

409

Opinion of the Court.

without such deduction), the amount of such excess shall
be allowed as a deduction in computing the net income
for the next succeeding taxable year (hereinafter in this
section called 'third year'); the deduction in all cases
to be made under regulations prescribed by the Comnmissioner with the approval of the Secretary."
In the courts below the petitioners unsuccessfully insisted that the loss upon sale of the corporate shares
occurred in 1925 and should be offset against gains received during that year. Here that insistence is not
renewed.
The claim of right to offset the net loss of 1924 against
1925 gains cannot prevail unless the requirements of the
quoted section, Revenue Act *of 1924, are met-the loss
must have been "attributable to the operation of a trade
or business regularly carried on by the taxpayer."
In support of their position petitioners sayThe losses of the Manufacturing Corporation were not
the losses of the taxpayers. They do not seek to disregard the corporate entity, but respect it. Taken as a
whole this entity constituted a part of the individual trade
oT business of Hubert Dalton. His trade or business was
not merely that of inventing; it included exploiting of
his inventions, putting them on a paying basis by developing, manufacturing, improving and selling them
through corporations organized for that special purpose.
All of these things formed a complete, comprehensive enterprise of which the Corporation was part. It was an
instrumentality. of the taxpayer's business. Consequently, the investment in the corporate shares was part
of business regularly carried on.
Whether theoretically valid or not, this argument rests
upon assumptions out of harmony with the facts disclosed
by the.record. Dalton was not regularly engaged in the
business of buying and selling corporate stocks. He organized the Manufacturing Corporation and took over

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

all its shares with the intention of selling them at a profit.
He treated it as something apart from his ordinary affairs,
accepted credits for salaries as an officer, claimed loss to
himself because of loans to it which had become worthless, and caused it to make returns for taxation distinct
from his own. Nothing indicates that he regarded the
corporation as his agent with authority to contract or
act in his behalf. Ownership of all the stock is not
enough to show that creation and management of the
corporation was a part of his ordinary business. Certainly, under the general rule for tax purposes a corporation is an entity distinct from its stockholders,' and the
circumstances here are npt so unusual as to create an
exception.

Affirmed.

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. CLARK.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 180. Argued November 14, 1932.-Decided December 12, 1932.
The taxpayer was interested in a corporation engaged in river and
harbor improvement work, as. majority stockholder and "president,
and devoted himself largely to its affairs. He was also interested
in other concerns engaged in similar work and- had investments in
other corporate shares. He treated the corporation as a separate
entity for taxation, and made separate personal income tax returns.
Through endorsement of obligations of the corporation, and sale of
its stock, he suffered net' losses in 1921 and 1922, for which he
claimed deductions in his return for 1923. He was not in the business of endorsing or buying and selling securities. Held:
The losses did not resilt "from the operation of any trade or
business rejgularly carried' on by the taxpayer," and, under the
Revenue Act of 1921, § 204, were not deductible from gains of succeeding years. P. 414.
61 App. D. C. 217; 59 F. (2d) 1031, reversed.

