CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

WOOD, SECRETARY OF STATE OF MISSISSIPPI,
ET A. V. BROOM.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRI CT OF MISSISSIPPI.

'No. 424. Argued October 13, 1932.--Decided October 18, 1932.
1. The provisions of the Reapportionment Act of Aiigust 8, 1911,
requiring that congressional election districts be of contiguous and
compact territory and, as nearly as practicable, -of equal populations, related only to the districts to be formed under that Act, and
were not reenacted in the Reapportionment Act of June 18, 1929.
P. 8.
2. Where a bill sought to compel state election officials to conform
to bn Act of Congress which the court found to be no longer in
force, hedd that questions whether, if the Act were effective, the
controversy would be justiciable and tN plaintiff entitled to equitable relief, need not be considered. Id.-1 F. Supp. 134, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three

judges, which, on final hearing on bill and answer, permanently enjoined officers of the State of Mississippi
from conducting an election of representatives in Congress, in puriuance of an Act of the legislature, which the
decree declared to be invalid and unconstitutional.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellants.

287 U.S.

Messrs. J. A. Lauderdale and Win. H. Watkins, Assistant Attornieys. General of Mississippi, with whom Mr.
Greek L. Rice, Attorney General, was on the brief, for
appellants.
There is no equity on the face of the bill, because
plaintiff had a plain, speedy, complete and adequate
remedy at law, and because there is no probability of a
multiplicity of auits.
There is no equity jurisdiction. The amount in controversy does not exceed $3,000.00. A federal court of
equity has no jurisdiction to prevent the deprivation of
a political right. Ex parte Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200;
Cleveland Cliff Iron Co. v. Kinney, 262 Fed. 980; Angelus v. Sullivan, 246 Fed. 54, citing many other cases:
Taylor v. Kerchevak, 82 Fed. 497; Ahthony v. Burrow,
129 Fed. 783; Ohio v. Hildebrandt, 231 U. S. 565; 9
R. C. L. 987, § 10; 10 R. C. L. 342, § 92; 14 R. C. L. 375,

77.
Sub-section 15 of §'24, Judicial Code, gives the federal
courts jurisdiction to try the title to certain offices. However, members of Congress are especially excepted, therefrom and the.denial of the right to vote must be on account of race, color or previous condition of servitude.
This section gives the court jurisdiction where certain
political rights are involved. To give jurisdiction therein
is to exclude jurisdiction in any other matters..
Under' the facts stated in the bill, plaintiff is not entitled to have his name placed on the ballot as a candidate
for Congress from the State at large.
The decree of this Court would be inefficacious.
Sec. 4, Art. 1, of the Constitution and the Act of Congress of 1911 are directory and not mandatory.
Congress, being the sole judge thereof, has cqnstrued
the statute, as not being mandatory but directory, and
asan administrative matter, exclusively for the States.

WOOD v. BROOM.
Argument for Appellee.

An elector of a congressional district is not entitled
under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
to equality in representation with other districts throughout the State.
Since the appellee has brought his suit before a threejudge district court of the United States, the jurisdiction
must rest upon the unconstitutionality of a state statute
and not the alleged ,violation by the state statute of. a
federal statute.
There is complete compliance with the Fourteenth
Amendment where there exists no inequality as to
residents of the separate districts..
Messrs. Hu'h V. Wall and Cleon K. Calveet, with
whom Messrs. J. H. Price, J.- 0. S. Sanders, and S. B.
Laub were on the briefs, for appellee.
One who is deprived of the right of equal suffrage in the
choice of federal officers, when that right has been granted
by a State, is deprived of a vested right under the Constitution of the United States and of one which equity,
as administered in the federal courts, will protect.
Cooley, Const. L., p. 248; Gougar v. Timberlake, 148 Ind.
41; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; Wiley v. Sinkler,
179 U. S. 5E?.
A qualified voter in a State, who is denied the right of
equal representation by a state congressional redistricting
act, may complain against the Act in equity in a federal
court in his own name and person. - Smiley v. Holm, 285
U. S. 355.
. The Act of Congress of August 8, 1911 is a valid exercise
of congressional power -and is still in force.
The right to make reasonable qualifications for party
membership is a political matter with which equity has
naught to do. But the right to vote is a legal right that
equity will protect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

Messrs. John R. Saunders, Attorney General, Edwin
H. Gibson and Collins Denny, Jr., Assistant Attorneys
General, and Albert V. Bryan, by leave of Court, filed
a brief on behalf of the Commonwealth of Virginia,, as
amicus curiae. In this it was argued that the provisions of the Act of 1911 as to the compactness, etc., of
congressional election districts, and their equality in
population, were no longer in force. The brief pointed
out that those provisions, and like provisions in earlier
Acts, had been persistently violated by the States, and
contended. that the subject was really one for the States
to deal with free from any control by the federal courts.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIcE HuGHEs delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Under the reapportionment pursuant to the Act of
June 18, 1929 (c. 28, 46 Stat. 21, 26, 27), Mississippi is
entitled to seven representatives in Congress, instead of
eight as theretofore. The Legislature of Mississippi, by
an act known as House Bill No. 197, Regular Session 1932,
divided the State into seven congressional districts. The
complainant, alleging that he was a citizen of Mississippi,
a qualified elector under its laws, and also qualified to be
a candidate for election as representative in Congress,
brought this suit to have the redistricting act of 1932
declared invalid and to restrain the defendants, state officers, from taking proceedings for an election under its
provisions. The alleged grounds of invalidity were that
the act violated Art. I, § 4, and the Fourteenth Amendment, of the Constitution of the United States, and § 3
of the Act of Congress of August 8, 1911 (c. 5, 37 Stat.
13). Defendants moved to dismiss the bill (1)- for want
of equity,. (2) for lack of equitable jurisdiction to grant
the relief asked, (3) because on the facts alleged the complainant was not entitled to have his name placed upon

WOOD v. BROOM.
1

Opinion of the Court.

the election ballot as a candidate from the State at large,
and (4) because the decree of the court would, be inefficacious. The District Court, of three judges, granted an
interlocutory injunction, and after answer, which admitted thi material facts alleged in the bill and set up the
same grounds of defense as the motion to dismiss together
with a denial of the unconstitutionality of the challenged
act, the court on final hearing, on bill and answer, entered
a final decree making the injunction permanent as prayed.
Defendants appeal to this Court. U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 380.
The District Court held that the new districts, created
by the redistricting act, were not composed of. compact
and contiguous territory, having as nearly as practicable
the same number of inhabitants, and hence failed to comply with the mandatory requiremefits of § 3 of the Act of
August 8, 1911. Sections 3 and 4 of that Act are as
follows:
"Sec. 3. That in each State entitled under .this apportionment to more than one Representative, the Representatives to the Sixty-third and each subsequent Congress shall be elected by districts composed of a contiguous and compact territory, and containing, as nearly as
practicable an equal number of inhabitants. The said
districts shall be equal to the number of Representatives
to which such State may be entitled in Congress, no district electing more than*one Representative.
" Sec. 4. That in case of an increase in the number of
Representatives in any State under this apportionment
auch additional Representative or Representatives shall
be elected by the State at large and the other Representatives by the districts now prescribed by law until such
State shall be redistricted in the manner provided by the
laws thereof and in accordance with the rules enumerated
in section three of this Act; and if there be no change in
the number of Representatives from a State, the Representatives thereof shall be elected from the districts no*

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

-

287 U.S.

prescribed by law until such- State shall be redistricted as
herein prescribed."
The Act of August 8, 1911, as its title states, was an
act "For the .apportionment of Representatives in Congress among the several - States under the Thirteenth
Census," that is, the census of 1910. The first section of
the act fixed the number of the House of Representatives
and apportioned that number among the several States.
Its second section rplated to the allotment of representatWes to the territories.of Arizona and New Mexico. The
third and fofirth, sections expressly applied to the election
of representatives to which the State was entitled "under
this apportionment," that is, under the apportionment under the Act of 1911 pursuant to the census of 1910. Substantially the same provisions are found in prior reapportionments acts, the requirements as to compactness,.
contiguity, and equality in population in .the new districts
in which representatives were to be elected under the, new
apportionment being addressed in each case to the election
of representatives "under this apportionment," that is,
th~e apportionment made by the particular act. Act of
June 25,- 1842, c. 47, § 2, 5 Stat. 491; Act of February 2,
1872, c. 11, § 2, 17 Stat. 28; Adt of February 25, 1882, c.
20, § 3, 22 Stat. 5, 6; Act of February 7, 1891, c. 116, §§ 3,
4, 26 Stat. 735, 736; Act of January 16, 190f, c. 93, §§ 3, 4,
31 Stat. 733, 734.
The Act of June 18, 1929, however, in providing for the
reapportionmeht under the Fifteenth Census (none having been made under the Fourteenth Census) omitted the
requirements as to the compactness, contiguity, and equality in population, of new districts to be created under
that apportionment. It did not carry forward those requirements as previous apportionment acts had done.
There was, it is true, no express repeal of §§ 3 and 4 of
the Act of 1911 and, as the Act of 1929 did not deal with
the subject, it contained no provision inconsistent with

WOOD v. BROOM.
1

Opinion of the Court.

the requirements of the Act; of 1911. Smiley v.: Holm, 285
U. S. 355; 373. No repeal was necessary. The requirements of §§ 3 and 4 of the Act of 1911 expired by*their
own limitation. Thby fell with the. apportionment to
which they expressly related. The inquiry is simply
whether the Act of 1929 carried forward the requirements
which otherwise lapsed. The Act of 1929 contains no
provision to that effect. It was manifestly the intention
of the Congress not to re-enact the provision as to compactness, contiguity, and equality in population with respect to the districts to be created pursuant to the reap-.
portionment tinder the Act of 1929.
This appears from the terms of the act, and its legislative history shows that the omission was deliberate. The
question was up, and considered. The bill which finally
became the Act of 1929 was introduced in the first session
of the 70th Congress -and contained provisions similar to
those of §§ 3 aiid 4 of the Act of 1911. H. R, 11,725;
Cong. Rec., 70th Cong., 1st sess., vol. 69, p. 4054. At
the second session of the 70th Congress, the House of
Representatives, after debate, struck out these provisions.
Cong. Rec., 70th Cong., 2d sess., vol. 70, pp. 1496, 1499,
1584, 1602, 1604. The bill passed in the House, of Representatives in that form (id p. 1605) and, although reported favorably to the Senate without amendment (id.
1711), did not pass at that session. The measure as, to
reapportionment was reintroduced in the Senate in the
first session of the 71st Congress in the form in which it
had passed the House of Representatives, and had been
favorably reported to the Senate in the preceding Congress, that is, without the requirements as to compactness,
contiguity, and equality in population, which had been
deleted in that Congress. S. 312, 71st Cong., 1st sess.,
Cong. Rec. vol. 71, pp. 254, 2450. And when, after the
passage of this bill in the Senate, it was before the House
of Representatives, and an effort was made to amend

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

8

287 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

the bill so as to make applicable the requirements of § 3
of the Act of 1911 with respect to the districts to be created
under the new apportionment, the amendment failed.
The point of order was sustained *that,as the pending bill
did not relate to redistricting of the States by their legislatures, the amendment was not. germane. Cong. Rec.,
71st Cong., 1st sess., vol. 71, pp. 2279, 2280, 2363, 2364,
2444, 2445. The bill was then passed without the requirements in question. Cong. Rec., 71st Cong., 1st sess.,
vol. 71, p. 2458.
There is thus no ground for the conclusion that the Act
of 1929 re-enacted or made applicable to new districts the
requirements of the Act of 1911. That act in this respect
was left as it had stood, and the requirements it had contained as to the compactness, contiguity and equality in
population of districts, did not outlast the apportionment
to which they related.
In this view, it is unnecessary to consider the questions
raised as to the right of the complainant to relief in equity
upon the allegations of the bill of complaint) or as to the
justiciability of the controversy, if it were assumed that
the requireiments invoked by the complainant are still in
effect. See Ex parte Bakelite Corporation,279 U. S. 438,
448. Upon these questions the Court expresses no
opinion.
The decree is reversed and the cause is remanded to the
District Court with directions to dismiss the bill of
complaint.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRANDEIS,

MR.

JUSTICE

STONE,

MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS, and MR. JUSTICE CARDozo are of

opinion that the decree should be reversed and the bill
dismissed for want of equity, without passing upon the
question whether § 3 of the Act of August 8, 1911, is
applicable. That question was not presented by the

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

pleadings or discussed in either of the opinions delivered
in the District Court. 1 F. Supp. 134. It was not
mentioned in the Jurisdictional Statement filed inder
Rule 12 or in the briefs of the parties filed here. So far
as appears, all the members of the lower court and both
parties have assumed that § 3 is controlling.

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 27. Argued October 21, 1932.-Decided October 24, 1932.
A bill in equity to restrain the collection of state taxes under a statute
alleged to violate the Federal Constitution should not be dismissed
on bill .and answer upon the ground that the statute affords an
adequate legal remedy by payment under protest and action to
recover, when the allegations of the bill put in doubt whether, if
that remedy were pursued and the claim allowed, satisfaction of it
could be secured certainly and within a reasonable time out of the
fund designated by otatute as the source of such payments. - P. 10.
Reversed.

These were four suits by retail merchants'seeking to
enjoin collection of taxes on gross sales, measured by
progressively increasing rates. All the bills -invoked the
due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and in two of them it was claimed, also, that
the tax operated as a direct burden on interstate commerce. By stipulation the cases were heard together and
disposed of -by one opinion of the three-judge District
Court. The cases were treated as submitted upon bill
and answer as well as upon plaintiffs' motion for prelim'Together with No. 28, Levy et al. v. Lewis et al., and No. 29, J. C.
Penney Co. v. Same, both from the Western District of Kentucky,
and No.'30, Kroger Grocery & Baking Co. v. Same, from the Eastern
District.

