MOSHER v. PHOENIX.
12

Syllabus.

Deficiencies Act (U. S. C., Tit. 28, ยง 47) and hence are not
open to review on this appeal. Pittsburgh& West Virginia Ry. Co. v. United States, 281 U. S. 479, 488.
The remaining questions with respect to the adequacy
of the rentals fixed, the other terms-of the proposed leases,
and the public interests involved, relate to the propriety
of the action of the Commission in the exercise of its
authority under the statute as construed. As to these
matters the parties were fully heard, pertinent evidence
was received and considered, and we find no basis for a
contention that the order of the Commission was not adequately supported or had any confiscatory effect. Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 658, 663;
Georgia Commission v. United States, 283 U. S. 765, 775.
Decree affirmed.
MOSHER v. CITY OF PHOENIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No4. 6 and 7. Argued October 17, 1932.-Decided November 7, 1932.
1. Jurisdiction of the District Court upon the ground of federal question, is. determined by the allegations of the bill, and not by the
way the facts turn out or by a deeision of the merits. P. 30.
2. Where a bill complaining of the attempted appropriation of plaintiff's land by a city as part of a street alleges that the city's action
iswithout authority from the state law, but goes on to say that,

under color of state authority, the city is attempting to take and
appropriate the use of plaintiff's property and deprive him thereof
without compensation or condemnation proceedings, -and without
due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment,.a
substantial federal question is presented. P. 32.

54 F. (2d) 777, 778, reversed.

CERTIOPAI, 285 U. S. 535, to review affirmances of two
decrees of the District Court dismissing bills by which the

-

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

plaintiff sought to enjoin the city from appropriating land,
as part of a street.
Mr. John W. Ray for petitioner.
Messrs. Sidman D. Barber and John L. Gust appeared
for respondent
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Decrees dismissing the bills of complaint for the want
of jurisdiction were affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 54 F. (2d) 777, 778, and writs of certiorari were
granted limited to the question of the jurisdiction of the
District Court as a federal court. 285 U. S. 535.
There is no diversity of citizenship and jurisdiction depends upon the presentation by the bills .of complaint of
a substantial federal question. Jurisdiction is thus determined by the allegations of the bills and not by the way
the facts turn-out or by a decision of the merits. Pacific'
Electric Ry. Co. v. Los Angeles, 194 U. S. 112, 118; Columbus Railway, Power & Light Co. v. Columbus, 249.
U. S. 399, 406 South Covington & CincinnatiStreet Ry.
Co. V. Newport, 259 U. S. 97, 99.
The suits were brought by petitioner as owner of parcels of land in the City of Phoenix, Arizona, to restrain
the City from appropriating her land for purposes of a
street improvement. The Circuit Court of Appeals, having decided in Collins v. Phoenix, 54 F. (2d) 770 (where
jurisdiction of the federal couri rested on diversity of
citiz.enship), that the proceedings of the City were not
authorized by the statutes of Arizona,1 held in the instant
cases that the petitioner, having alleged that the proceedings were void under the state law, had not presented a
1

Compare decision of Supreme Court of Arizona- in Mosher v,

Phoenix, 7 P. (2d) 622.

MOSHER v. PHOENIX.
29

Opinion of the Court.

substantial federal question. But petitioner did not stop
with allegations as to the City's authority under state law.
Petitioner also alleged, in No. 6, after setting. forth her
title, her claim as to the width of the street in question,
and the action of the City in including her property as a
part of the street and in contracting for the street improvement upon that basis, that the City was thereby
"attempting to take and appropriate the property of
plaintiff without compensation, and.to take and appropriate and use same and deprive the said plaintiff of the
permanent use thereof, without due process of law, or any
process of law, . . . and in 'violation of the rights of
plaintiff as guaranteed her under the Constitution of the
United, States, and particularly under amendments five
and fourteen thereof, which plaintiff here and now pleads
and relies on for her protection against the wrongs and
threatened wrongs of the defendant city in the proposed
taking of her property as hereinbefore described." And
this appeal to the Fourteenth Amendment was reiterated
as against the action of the City which was alleged to
have been taken "under. the authority" of the "ordinances, resolutions and acts" set forth in the bill of complaint, it being also alleged that there had been no dedication or deed to the City and no proceedings for condemnation. Similar allegations of federal right, but more
briefly stated, are found in the bill of complaint in No. 7.
In ihis respect the instant cases are similar to 'that of
Cuyahoga Power Co. v. Akron, 240-U. S. 462, where the
plaintiff, after setting forth provisions of the statutes and
constitution of Ohio and concluding that the City had no
constitutional power to take the property and franchises
of the plaintiff and was exceeding the authority conferred
by state law, further alleged that the City was attempting
to take the plaintiff's propertywithout compensation and
was going forward with the enterprise in question in violation of the contract clause and Fourteenth Amendment

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

of the Constitution of the United States. This Court
held that "whether the plaintiff has any rights that the
City is bound to respect can be decided only by taking
jurisdiction of the case" and that it was necessary for the
District Court to deal with the merits. See, also, Fidelity
& Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426, 434; Iowa-Des
Moines NationalBank v. Bennett, 284 U. S. 239, 246.
We are of the opinion that the allegations of the bills
of complaint that the City acting under color of state
authority was violating the asserted private right secured
by the Federal Constitution, presented a substantial federal question and that it was error of the District Court
to refuse jurisdiction.
Decrees reversed.
GULF STATES STEEL CO.
STATES.

ET A.

v. UNITED

.CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 24. Argued October 20, 1932.--Decided November 7,- 1932.
1. While a claim for abatement of a deficiency assessment was before
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and when the period of
limitation on collection was about to expire, the taxpayer, in order
to secure delay and opportunity to present further proofs, filed a
bond to indemnify the Collector against any resulting loss. After
the period of limitation had run, the taxpayer filed a second bond,
for the purpose- of releasing the surety on the first and substituting
a pledge of securities; then a third bond releasing the pledge and
introducing another surety. Each of the later bonds recited the
assessment, the pendency of the claim for abatement, and the preceding bond, and was conditioned upon payment to the Collector
of such amount of the tax "as -is not abated." Thereafter, the
Commissioner rejected the claim for abatement and sustained the
assessment; but the Board of Tax Appeals, which was not established uiitil after the second bond had been given, held, at the instance of the taxpayer, that no tax deficiency existed, since collec-

