OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for the United States.

287 U.S.

NORFOLK & WESTERN RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

?No. 18. Argued October 19, 1932.-Decided November 7, 1932.
1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring a
railroad to carry its coal mining properties in its accounts as property not used in the service of transportation, although the mines
were acquired, and are used, solely for the purpose of supplying
fuel for locomotives, was within the authority of the Commission
and not subject to review by the courts. P. 141.
2. The order does not operate as a denial of due process by fixing an
unfair and improper rate base or basis of recapture, since it affects
merely the accounting practice of the carrier. P. 141.
3. There is no right to a particular form of accounting as such, and
thei action of the Commission was not an abuse of power. P. 143.
4. The order was not an arbitrary and unwarranted interference
with the managerial discretion of executives of the company. Id.
5. A carrier is not entitled to felief here fromi part of an order requiring that charges in its accounts for coal produced in its mines for
transportation operations shall be upon the basis of the average
monthly cost of production, when the Commission has indicated its
willingnes to reopen the case and give further consideration to this
question. P. 143.
52 F. (2d) 967, affirmed.

APPEL from a decree of a District Court of three judges

dismissing a petition to enjoin the enforcement of an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Messrs. D. Lynchi
Younger and F. Markoe Rivinus,
with whom Messrs. S. King Funkhouser, Harvey B. Apperson, and Theodore W. Reath were on the brief, for
appellant.
Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, and Messrs. Charles H. Weston, William G. Davis, Elmer B. Collins, Daniel W.

NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. CO. v. U. S. 135
134

Argunent for the United States.

Rnowlton, and Nelson Thonas were on the brief, for the
United States and the Commission.
The Commission's order required appellant to enter its
mining investments in its accounts as non-transportation
property, to account for the attendant revenues and expenses as arising from miscellaneous operations, and to
charge to its railway operating expenses the average
monthly production cost per ton of coal produced in the
collieries for consumption in appellant's transportation
operations. Wholly apart from the technical question
whether the mines are used for transportation service,
the Commission's order must be sustained as a reasonable
exercise of its powers under § 20 of the Act. The sole
effect of the Commission's order is to require appellant
to keep its accounts in the prescribed manner. There is
nothing in the order or in the Act which makes the Commission's determination that these mines are not transportation properties final for rate-making purposes.
The Commission's order and pertinent classification
tended to preserve uniformity in carrier accounts generally, which was one of the principal objects sought by § 20
of the Act. Furthermore, the order did not deprive appellant of an opportunity to earn a return on its investment in the collieries. Appellant may claim as a part
of the cost of the coal produced allowances for depletion,
depreciation, and carrying charges on the investment.
Appellant offers no valid reason for-disturbing the noncarrier classification of mining properties consented to
by it and other carriers over a period of many years.
Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 231 U. S.
423, 441; Interstate Commerce Commn. v. Goodrich
Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194, 211, 212.
Analysis of the essential charater of appellant's mining
operations requires the classification of its investment
as nontransportation. The business of mining coal is

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for the United States.

287 U.S.

entirely separate from that of transportation. The mere
fact that the mines supply a needed facility does not
stamp them as transportation properties. The manufacture of rails, ties, and cars for carrier use provides needed
facilities, yet it could hardly be contended that these are
common carrier activities. Such activities naturally invite private enterprise and need not be engaged in by
carriers. See Santa Fe, P. & P. Ry. Co. v. Grant Bros.
Construction Co., 228 U. S. 177, 186; State v. Commissoners,.23 N. J. L. 510; Eldridge v. Smith, 34 Vt. 484.
The mining properties are not devoted to the public
use as are the carrier's lines and usual facilities. Since
§ 20 of the Act was designed principally to inform the
Commission as to matters within its regulatory power, it
is reasonable that properties not devoted to public use
and subject to'regulation should be separately classified.
The business of mining, moreover, is not commerce and
can therefore hardly be regarded as constituting transportation. Delaware, L. & W. R. Cb. v. Yurkonis, 238
U. S. 439; United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co.
259 U. S.344, 407; Oliver Mining Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S.

172, 178.
That the ownership of coal mines by a carrier is distinct and separate from the transportation service which
it performs.is apparent from the fact that the law does
not-permit such ownership to interfere with the carrier's
obligation to furnish equal transportation service to all
alike. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co. v. United States, 231
U. S.363, 370; Assigned Car Cases, 274 U. S.564.
If the mines are not treated as property but as a supply
of consumable coal, as suggested by appellant in the court
below, the Commission's order denying a carrier classification is likewise justified. Applicable valuation decisions
do not support the inclusion in the rate base of property
not used and for which there is no iminent need. Hougton v. Southwestern Bell Tel. Co., 259 U. S. 318, 324;

NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. CO. v. U. S. 137
134

Opinion of the Court.

Bluefield Water Works v. Bluefield, .262 U. S. 679; 690;
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 434; Spring Valley
Waterwiorks v. San Francisco, 192 Fed. 137, 156; Consolidated Gas Co.- v. New York, 157 Fed. 849.
The Commission's determination that these mines are
not property devoted to transportation service is a deteruination of fact by a tribunal "informed by experience"
and is entitled to great weight. Virginian Ry. Co. v.
United States, 272 U. S. 658, 665-666.
If appellant's mining operations have yielded savings,
this is not relevant in the determination of the proper
classification of mines. Its estimate as to the amount of
savings is excessive. In view of the more reasonable distribution of carrying charges which would result, a noncarrier classification is in the public interest.
MR. JUsTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Interstate Commerce Commission issued an order
pursuant to § 201 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended, requiring the Norfolk & Western Railway Company to carry certain coal mining properties in its accounts as not used in the service of transportation. The
railway filed a petition in the District Court to enjoin the
enforcement of the order, and from a decree of dismissal
by a District Court, of three judges, this appeal was taken.
During the piriod between 1917 and 1920 the railway
experienced difficulty in obtaining an adequate supply of
coal of satisfactory quality for use in its locomotives. In
an effort to meet this situation and to reduce costs of operation three coal mines, adjacent to the right of way,
were acquired, the terms of purchase being that they
should be used solely for the supply of locomotive fuel.
The investment was, as of September 30, 1928, after deb-U S. C.; Tit. 49, § 20.

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

its for depreciation and depletion, $2,650,467.28.. The
estimate is that the coal in the three mines will be exhausted in seventeen years, thirty-three years, and thirtyfive years respectively. The entire output, except for a
trifling amount furnished to mine employees, is consumed in carrier activities. The collieries furnish approximately forty-eight per cent. of the railway's requirements.
A general order of the Commission, in force long prior
to the company's purchase of the mines, required such
assets to be shown under Account 705, "Miscellaneous
Physical Property," which included investments in physical property not used in transportation. Since acqui-.
sition of the first of the mines the railway has carried the
investment in this account. In 1927 the company addressed a letter to the Commission requesting permission
to transfer the investment from Account 705 to Account
701, which comprises investment in road and equipment.
Thereupon an ex parte order was made directing that, as
theretofore, the- cost of the collieries should appear in
Account 705. On petition a hearing was afforded, after
which the Commission entered the order now under attack, prescribing that the investment be carried under
Account 705, and providing further that the charges to
Account 716, "Material and Supplies," for coal produced
for consumption in appellant's transportation operations,
be upon the basis of the average monthly cost per ton of
producing coal; adding that if necessity should appear the
proceeding would be reopened for the purpose of considering and further regulating the accounting under which
the costs per ton are. ascertained.
First. The Commission's order is challenged as in excess of the statutory grant of power. The concession is
made that § 20 of the Act grants a discretion to prescribe
a uniform system of accounts, the manner in which they
shall be kept, and the forms thereof. The appellant,

NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. CO. v. U. S. 139
134,

Opinion of the Court.

however, asserts that this discretion is limited by the
purposes and ends for which such accounts are to be
kept, as exhibited in other sections of the Act. Reference
is made to the valuation section (19a),2 which calls upon
the Commission to report "the value of all the property
owned or used by every common carrier," and specifies in
subparagraph (b) -that as part of the investigation the
Commission shall "ascertain and report in *detail as to
each piece of property, other than land, owned or uied
by said common carrier for its purposes as a-common
carrier . . ." Stress is laid upon the fact that final valu-

ations made by the Commission are to. be prima facie
evidence of the value of the property in all administrative
and judicial proceedings under the Act. So also the
appellant seeks support for this contention in the fair
retuirn and recapture section (15a),3 which assures to the
carrier "a fair return upon the aggregate value of the railway property of such carriers held for and used in the
service of transportation," and for recapture of income in
excess of a return of six per centum upon.the value of such
railway property. The phrases employed in these sections,--" in the service of transportation," and "for purposes of a common carrier,"--are said to mark the limits
of the statutory power of the Commission in classifying
capital assets for accounting purposes.
In view of the uncontradicted fact that the mines in
question were pirchased for and dedicated to the use
of fuel supply and may not be used for any other purpose, the appellant deems it necessarily to follow that
these assets were acquired for carrier purposes and are
used in the service of transportation, and serve no other
purpose or use whatsoever. The conclusion sought to be
drawn is that although the Commission may exercise
a reasonable discretion in prescribing the nature and form
U. S. C., Tit. 49, § 19a.
U. S. C., Tit. 49, § 15a.

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

of accounts, it has in the present instance plainly exceeded that discretion and by classifying as non-transportation property that which was acquired to serve transportation activities and promote the purposes of carriage of
persons and good, has transgressed statutory boundaries.
We must examine the origin, the purpose, the re-enactment of the statutory provision, and the practice of the
Commission thereunder, to resolve the question thus presented. The authority to require annual reports from
carriers, and to prescribe a uniform system of accounts
was conferred on the Commission by the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887," and was but slightly elaborated in
statement by the Hepburn Act and the Transportation
Act, 1920.1 One of the prime purposes of § 20 is and has
been since the adoption of the Act of 1887, that the carriers' accounts should be uniform, so as .to afford the Commission and the public a basis for comparison of their respective operations. In- orders issued pursuant to this
legislation the Commission, as early as 1914, drew a distinction, for purposes of accounting, between transportation and non-transportation property.. The rule as to
classification which appellant attacks had been in force
long prior to the passage of the Transportation Act, which
added to the law theretofore in effect § 15a, respecting
recapture, and prior to the enactment of the Act of March
1, 1913,6 which added § 19a, concerning valuation, to
which appellant turns for the limitations it would have
us read into § 20. Moreover, those sections draw the very
distinction which the Commission order has long enforced.
Section 15a, in referring to the fair return guaranteed the
carrier, speaks not of the property as a whole, but of "the
4

Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, § 20, 24 Stat. 386.
'Act June 29, 1906, a. 3591, § 7, 34 Stat. 593; Act" February 28,
1920, c. 91, §§ 434-438, 41 Stat. 493, 494.
6 c. 92, 37 Stat. 701.

NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. CO. v. U. S. 141
134

Opinion of the Court.

railway property held and 'used for the service of transportation." And § 19a commands the Commission to
show separately in any report "the property held for purposes other than those of a common carrier."
Plainly, th~e Commission, under. the authority conferred
upon it by Congress, must draw a line between the two
sorts of property owned by the railroads. Within broad
limits that body's determination is necessarily beyond revision and correction by the courts. The record shows
that it is unusual for a railroad to own mines for the production of locomotive fuel; in fact we are referred to no.
other similar instance.' Whether the Commission should
make special classifications to fit exceptional cases lies
within the discretion conferred, and courts ought not to be
called upon to interfere with or correct alleged errors with
respect to accounting practice. If we were in disagreement with the Commission as to the wisdom and propriety of the order, we are without power to usurp its discretion and substitute our own. Kansas City So. Ry. v..
United States, 231 U. S.423, 444, 456.
Second. With great. earnestness the'appellant characterizes the 'order as in several aspects a denial of due
process.- It declares that by virtue of the Commission's
mandate an unfair and improper rate base is fixed, and a
capital asset properly to be taken into account for purposes of recapture is eliminated. But this is to ignore
the fact that the order is one touching accounting merely;
that before any rate base can be ascertained or any basis
of recapture determined the carrier will be entitled to a
full hearing as to what property shall be included; and
not until the Commission excludes the assets in question
from the calculation may the carrier assert the infliction
of injury to its rights of property. A recapture proceeding is now pending against the appellant, wherein full
opportuhity will be afforded to present any claims with

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

regard to the inclusion in whole or in part of the mining
properties in question.
We are not convinced by the assertion that the necessary effect of classifying the mines as non-carrier properties is to exclude them from consideration as capital
in the issuance of securities. We are not, however, required now to decide this question, for the mere accounting classification can conclude neither the Commission
nor the appellant upon the hearing of an application
under § 20a (2). 7
Denial of due process is also predicated upon the assertion that the Commission's order is wholly unsupported
by the evidence. Appellant invokes the principle that
due process requires not only a hearing, but a fair consideration of the evidehce, and says that no effect was
given to the uncontradicted testimony.. The report de-monstrates that the Commission did give painstaking
attention to .the question of the proper classification of
the asset in question by comparison of mines for fuel
supply with water rights, gas and power plants, locomotive and car manufacturing plants, timber lands purchased for future supply of ties, and other kinds of property which have been heretofore classified as falling partly
or wholly within or without the category of transportation
property. The record demonstrates that an adequate
hearing was afforded and due weight given to the
evidence.
Appellant also characterizes the Commission's action as
a denial of the legal right of the railway to.adopt fair
and reasonable methods of accounting. We have shown
that the order made does not affect the right to a fair
return, or to determination of the full and fair value of
the carrier's entire property and assets, and does not
amount to a taking thereof. The objection now under
1 U. S. C., Tit. 49, § 20a (2).

NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. CO. v. U. S.
134

143

Opinion of the Court.

consideration asserts merely that the company is lawfully
entitled to maintain a reasonable system of accounting.
But there is no right to a particular form of accounting
as such. Doubtless a Commission order under §,20 might
be so arbitrary and outrageous as to call for correction.
The present is not such a case. What has been done
clearly does not amount to an abuse of power. See
Kansas City So. Ry. -v. United States, supra.
The order is assailed further as an undue and unwarranted interference with managerial discretion. Much is
said of the wisdom and far-sightedness of obtaining an
adequate supply of a commodity necessary to the continuance of the railway's transportation system. The
danger of limiting or hampering railway executives in the
exercise 'of sound discretion and good policy is stressed.
But nothing in the order prevents the exercise of such
policy. The basis of the Commission's order is merely
that if a carrier determines to go into the business of manufacturing articles for use in connection with its activities
as a carrier, such as are ordinarily purchased by railroads
from independent manufacturers or producers, these shall
not appear in the accounts as investmerits in railway
property used in the service of transportation. No benefit
derived from such activities is denied the carrier, nor does
the required classification in any way take the property
of the company or impair its value.
Third. Finally, complaint is made of that portion of
the Commission's order which requires the charges to
Account 716, "Material and Supplies," for coal produced
from the collieries for consumption in the appellant's
transportation operations, to be upon the basis of the
average monthly cost for producing the coal. The objection seems to be grounded on the premise that actual cost
of production is not the proper item to go into that account. The Commission, however, expressed a willingness to reopen the case and to give further consideration,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

if necessary, to the method of charging coal from these
mines as a cost of transportation. The record therefore
fails to show that in this aspect the appellant has suffered harm from the order.
The judgment of the District Court is
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
UNITED STATES v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 96.

Argued October 11, 1932.-Decided November 7, 1932.

1. A payment made by the Government to a Railroad Company
under the guaranty provision (§ 209) of the Transportation Act,
not in excess of the amount due as then found and certified by
the Interstate Commerce Commission, but an overpayment if
tested by the Commission's final computation of the guaranty,
five years later,7-hdd not recoverable by the United States as a
payment made by mistake of fact or in violation of law, the
discrepancy being attributable merely to the use of different
formulae for adjusting maintenance expense to fluctuations in cost
of labor and material, and the superiority of one method over
the other being a matter of opinion and not of mathematical
precision. Pp. 151, 152.
2. A certificate issued by the Commission under § 212 (a) of the
Transportation Act (added by amendment of Feb. 26, 1921,)
for an amount "definitely ascertained by it to be due" to
carrier under the guaranty of § 209, is not provisional and tentative; and the fact that the amount paid under such certificate
exceeds the Commission's subsequent and final certificate of the
amount guaranteed to the carrier does not entitle the United
States to a repayment of the excess. P. 153.
3. If the meaning of a statute be uncertain, recourse may be had
to its legislative history and to the statements by those in charge
of it during its consideration by Congress. P. 154.

