OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

112

Syllabus.

287 U.S.

315; Burkett v. Commissioner,31 F. (2d) 667, and see the
same case before the Board of Tax Appeals, 7 B. T. A.
560; Berg v. Commissioner, 33 F. (2d) 641; Hirschi v.
United States, supra. We see no basis for it. Bonus and
royalties are both consideration for the lease and are in.come of the lessor. We cannot say that such payments
by the lessee to the lessor, to be retained by him regardless of the prioduction of any oil or gas, are any more to
be taxed as capital gains than royalties which are measured by the actual production. See Work v. Mosier, 261
U. S. 352, 357-358.
Reversed.
GEBARDI

ET AL. v.

UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 97. Argued October 10, 1932.-Decided November 7, 1932.
1. Section 2 of the Mann Act imposes a penalty upon "Any person
who shall knowingly transport or cause to be transported, or aid or
assist in obtaining transportation for, or in transporting in interstate or foreign commerce . . .any woman or girl for the purpose

of prostitution or debauchery or for any other immoral purpose . .

."

Held:

That a woman who is the willing object of such transportation,
but who does not aid or assist otherwise than by her consent, is not
guilty of the offense. P. 119.
2. A woman merely acquiescing in her transportation by a man, for
immoral conduct between them, in violation of § 2 of the Mann
Act, does not thereby commit the crime of conspiring to commit
the substantive offense of which by the transportation he alone
becomes guilty. P. 123.
So held, upon the ground that as Congress set out in the Mann
Act to deal with cases which involve consent and agreement on
the part of the woman in every case in which she is a voluntary
agent at all, the failure of the Act to condemn her participation
in transportation effected with her mere consent evinces an
affirmative legislative policy to leave her acquiescence unpunished,

GEBARDI v. UNITED STATES.
112

Argument for Petitioners.

This policy would be contravened were it to be held that the very
passage of the Mann Act effected a withdrawal, by the earlier
conspiracy statute, of that immunity which the Act -itself confers.
57 F. (2d) 617, reversed.

CERTIoRA~I, 286 U. S.539, to review the affirmance of
convictions and sentences of the petitioners, a man and a
woman, for alleged conspiracies, in three counts.
Mr. William F. Waugh for petitioners.
It is erroneous to divide a single conspiracy into severaland to impose the maximum sentence on each count.
The Holte case' 236 U. S. 140, merely decided that it
was possible for a woman to be a co-conspirator under
certain circumstances, and that the indictment would survive a demurrer. The case does not hold that the consent
of a woman to be transported under any circumstances
establishes her 'guilt as a conspirator. See dissenting
opinion below.
Furthermore, in the Holte case, the conspiracy charged
was for transportation of the woman "for purposes of
prostitution," implying promiscuity of intercourse.- In
the present case the object alleged was, in effect, adultery.
The indictment also charged that there were athers
than petitioners involved in the conspiracy, and it is conceivable that a number of persons may conspire that two
of them commit adultery. It may be, therefore, that the
indictment would, under the rule in the Holte case, have
successfully withstood an attack as to its sufficiency in
law, but as the proof limited the activities entirely to
petitioners; there is neither proof nor contention that any
•other' people were the unknown conspirators mentioned
in the indictment.
It has been uniformly held that where the co6peration
of two people is necessary to complete an 4ct which when
cpnsummated is a crime, such co5peration constitutes the

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for the United States.

287 U.S.

substantive crime and may not be bent to conspiracy
to commit that offense. United States v. Dietrich, 126
Fed. 664; United States v. Sager, 49 F. (2d) 725. See,
e. g., as to adultery, Shannon v. Commonwealth, 14 Pa.
226; Iowa v. Law, 179 N. W. 145 and cases cited; II
Wharton's Crim. Law, 11th ed., § 1602, p. 1746. In
Corbett v. United States, 299 Fed. 27, the point here made
was not presented or considered.
Proof of immoral relations between the parties during
their trip did not establish-surely not beyond a reasonable doubt-that that was the object of the transportation.
Assistant Attorney General Richardson, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General
Dodds, and Mr. W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for
the United States.
The defendants' agreement that the defendant Rolfe
should be transported by her codefendant for an immoral
purpose constituted conspiracy to violate the White
Slave Traffic Act. United States v. Holte, 236 U. S. 140.
In that case the Court was plainly of the opinion that
there is no reason "for not treating the preliminary
agreement" of the parties "as a conspiracy that the law
can reach, if we abandon the illusion that the woman
always is the victim." See also Corbett v. United States,
299 Fed. 27, 29-30. The Act reaches not only "commercial vice," but applies as well to transportation for an
immoral purpose which is not accompanied by expectation of pecuniary gain. Caminetti v. United States, 242
U. S. 470.
Proof of agreement between the parties would have
been wholly unnecessary to sustain a prosecution for commission of the substantive offense. As was said in the
Holte case, p. 145, "The substantive offence might be

GEBARDI v. UNITED STATES.
112

Opinion of the Court.

committed without the woman's consent, for instance, if
she were drugged or taken by force." But where the
parties confederate and agree that the Act shall be violated, something is added beyond a.mere violation of
that statute. It is this added element of agreement or
confederation which supplies the basis for a charge of
conspiracy, and brings the case within the ordinary rule
conspiracy constitutes a different offense from that
that "a.
which is the object of the conspiracy. United States- v.
Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78. The distinction between such
a case and those cited by the defendants is that the
crimes considered in those cases (agreeing to receive a
bribe, etc.), could not be consummated in the absence of
agreement or concurrence of the parties, which thus became aii essential part of the offense and precluded a
charge of conspiracy. Here agreement or concurrence is
not essential to the commission of the substantive offense, and consequently, as was said in the Holte case (p.
145), " the decisions that it is -impossible to turn the concurrence necessary to effect certain crimes such as bigamy
or dueling into a conspiracy to commit them do not
apply."
There was substantial evidence that -there were three
conspiracies, as charged in the indictment.
There was substantial evidence that the transportation
was for an immoral purpose. The defendants' immoral
relations were not casual incidents of journeys undertaken
for other purposes.
MR. JusTim STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is here on certiorari, 286 U. S. 539, to review
a judgment of conviction for conspiracy to violate the
Mann Act (36 Stat. 825; 18 U. S. C., § 397 et seq.). Petitioners, a man and a woman, not then husband and

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

wife, were indicted in the District Court for Northern
Illinois, for conspiring together, and with others not
named, to transport the woman from one state to another
for the purpose of engaging in sexual intercourse with
the man. At the trial without a jury there was evidence
from which the court could have found that the petitioners had engaged in illicit sexual relations in the course
of each of the journeys alleged; that the man purchased
the railway tickets for both petitioners for at least one
journey, and that in each instance the woman, in advance
6f the purchase of the tickets, consented to go on the
journey and did go on it voluntarily for the specified
immoral purpose. There was no evidence supporting
the allegation that any other person had conspired. The
trial court overruled motions for a finding for the defendants, and in arrest of judgment, and gave judgment
of conviction, which the Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit affirmed, 57 F. (2d) 617, on the authority of
United States v. Holte, 236. U. S. 140.
The only question which we need consider here is
whether, within the principles announced in that case,
the evidence was sufficient to support the conviction.
There the defendants, a man and a woman, were indicted
for conspiring together that the man should transport
the woman from one state to another for purposes of prostitution. In holding the indictment sufficient, the Court
said (p. 144):
"As the defendant is the woman, the District Court sustained a demurrer on the ground that although the-offence
could not be committed without her she was no party to it
but only the victim. The single question is-whether that
ruling i's right. We do not have to consider what would
be necessary to constitute the substantive crime under the
act of 1910 [the Mann Act], or what evidence would be
required to convict a woman under an indictment like

GEBARDI v. UNITED STATES.
112

Opinion of the Court.

this, but only to decide whether it is impossible for the
transported woman to be guilty of a crime in conspiring as
alleged."
The Court assumed that there might be a degree of cobperation which would fall short of the commission of any
crime, as in the case of the purchaser of liquor illegally
sold. But it declined to hold that a woman could not
under some circumstances not precisely defined, be guilty
of a violation of the Mann Act and of a conspiracy to
violate it as well. Light is thrown upon the intended
scope of this conclusion by the supposititious case which
the Court put (p. 145):
"Suppose, for instance, that a professional prostitute,
as well able to look out for herself as was the man, should
suggest'and carry out a journey within the act of 1910 in
the hope of blackmailing the man, and should buy the
railroad tickets, or should pay the fare from Jersey City
to New York, she would be within the letter of the act of
1910 and we see no reason why the act should not be held
to apply. We see equally little reason for not treating
the preliminary agreement as a conspiracy that the law
can reach, if we abandon the illusion that the woman
always is the victim."
In the present case we must apply the law to the evidence; the very inquiry which was said to be unnecessary
to decision in United States v. Holte, supra.
First. Those exceptional circumstances envisaged in
United States v. Holte, supra, as possible instances in
which the woman might violate the act itself, are clearly
not present here. There isno evidence that she purchased the railroad tickets or that hers was the active or
moving spirit in conceiving or carrying out the transportation. The proof shows no more than that she went
willingly upon the journeys for the purposes alleged.

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

"287 U.S.

Section 2 of the Mann Act 1 (18 U. S. C. § 398), violation of which is charged by the indictment here as the
object of the conspiracy, imposes the penalty upon "Any
person who shall knowingly transport or cause to be transported, or aid or assist in obtaining transportation for, or
in transporting in interstate or foreign commerce...
any woman or girl for the purpose of prostitution or debauchery or for any other immoral purpose . . ." Transportation of a woman or girl whether with or without her
consent, or causing or aiding it, or furthering it in any of
the specified ways, are the acts punished, when done with
a; purpose which is immoral within the meaning of the
law. See Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308, 320.
The Act does not punish the woman for transporting
herself; it contemplates two persons-one to transport and
"Any person who shall knowingly transport or cause to be transported, or aid or assist in obtaining transportation for, or in transporting, in interstate or foreign commerce, or in any Territory or in the
District of Columbia, any woman or girl for the purpose of prostitution or debauchery, or for any other immoral purpose, or with the
intent and purpose to induce, entice, or compel such woman or girl to
become a prostitute or to give herself up to debauchery, or to engage
in any other immoral practice; or who shall knowingly procure or
obtain, or cause to be procured or obtained, or aid or awsist in procuring or obtaining, any ticket or tickets, or any form of transportation
or evidence of the right thereto, to be used by any woman or girl in
interstate or foreign commerce, or in any Territory or the District of
Columbia, in going to any place for the purpose of prostitution or
debauchery, or for any other immoral purpose, or with the intent or
purpose on the part of such person to induce, entice, or compel her
to give herself up to the practice of prostitution, or to give herself up
to debauchery, or any other immoral practice, whereby any such
woman or girl shall be transported in interstate or foreign commerce,
or in any Territory or the District of Columbia, shall be deemed
guilty of a felony, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a
-fine not exceeding $5,000, or by imprisonment of not more than five
years, or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the

court!)

GEBARDI v. UNITED STATES.
112

Opinion of the Court.

the woman or girl to be transported. For the woman to
fall within the ban of the statute she must, at the least,
"aid or assist" someone else in transporting or in prQcuring transportation for herself. But such aid and assistance must, as in thd case supposed in United States v.
Holte, supra,145, be more active than mere agreement on
her part to the transportation and its immoral purpose.
For the statute is drawn to include those cases in which
the woman consents to her own transportation. Yet it
does not specifically impose any penalty upon .her,
although it deals in detail with the person by whom she
is transported. In applying this criminal statute we cannot infer that the mere acquiescence of the woman transported was intended to be condemned by the general
language punishing those who ' aid and assist the transporter, 2 any more than it has been inferred that the purchaser of liquor was to be regarded as an abettor of the
illegal sale. State v. Teahan, 50 Conn. 92; Lott v. United
States, 205 Fed. 28; cf. United States v. Farrar,281 U. S.
624, 634. The penalties of the statute are too clearly
directed against the acts of the transporter as distinguished from the consent of the subject of the transportation. So it was intimated in United States v. Holte,
supra, and this conclusion is not disputed by the Government here, which contends only that the conspiracy charge
will lie though the woman could not commit the substantive offense.
Second. We come thus to the main question in the case,
whether, admitting that the woman, by consenting, has
'Sec. 3 of the Act (18 U. S. C., § 399), directed toward the persuasion, inducement, enticement or coercion of the prohibited transportation, also includes specifically those who "aid or assist" in the
inducement or the transportation. Yet it is obvious that those words
were not intended to reach the woman who, by yielding to persuasion,
assists in her own transportation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

not violated the Mann Act, she may be convicted of a
conspiracy with the man to violate it. Section 37 of the
Criminal Code (18 U. S. C, § 88), punishes a conspiracy
by two or more persons "to commit any offense against
the United States." The offense which she is charged.
with conspiring to commit is that perpetrated by the
man, for it is not questioned that in transporting her he
contravened § 2 of the Mann Act. Cf. Caminettiv.United
States, 242 Ui. S.470. Hence we must decide whether her
concurrence, which was not criminal before the Mann
Act, nor punished by it, may, without more, support a
conviction under the conspiracy section, enacted many
years before.'
As was said in the Holte case (p. 144), an agreement
to commit an offense may be criminal, though its purpose
is to do what some of the conspirators may be free to do
ialone. 4 Incapacity of one to commit the substantive
offense does not necessarily imply that he may with
impunity conspire with others who are able to commit it.,
*See. 30, Act of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 471, 484) "except for an
omitted not relevant provision, . . . has continued from that time
to this, in almost precisely its present form." See United States v.
Gradwell, 243 U. S.476, 481.
"The requirement of the statute that the object of the conspiracy
be an offense against the United States, necessarily statutory, United
States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch 32, avoids the question much litigated at
common law (see cases cited in Wright, The Law of Criminal Conspiracies [Carson ed. 1887] and in Sayre, Criminal Conspiracy, 35
Harv. L. Rev. 393) of the Criminality of combining to do an act
which any one may lawfully do alone.
'So it has been held repeatedly that one not a bankrupt may be
held guilty under § 37 of conspiring that a bankrupt shall conceal
property from his trustee (Bankruptcy Act § 29[b], 11 U. S.C., § 52).
Tapack v. United States, 220 Fed. 445, certiorari denied 238 U. S. 627;
Jollit v. United States, 285 Fed. 209, certiorari denied 261 U. S.624;
Israel v. United States, 3 F. (2d) 743; Kaplan v. United States, 7 F.
(2d) 594, certiorari denied 269 U. S.582. And sed United States v.
Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78, 86, 87. These cases proceed upon the

GEBARDI v. UNITED STATES
112

Opinion of the Court.

For it is the collective planning of criminal conduct at
which the statute aims. The plan is itself a wfong which,
if any act be done to effect its object, the state has electea
to treat as criminal, Clune v. United States, 159 U. S.590,
595. And one may plan that others shall do what he
cannot do himself. See United States v. Rabinowich,
238 U. S.78, 86, 87.
But in this case we are concerned with something more
than an agreement between two persons for one of them
to commit an offense which the other cannot commit.
There is the added element that the offense planned, the
criminal object of the conspiracy, involves the agreement
of the woman to her transportation by the man, which is
the very conspiracy charged.
Congress set out in the Mann Act to deal with cases
which frequently, if not normally, involve consent and
agreement on the part of the woman to the forbidden
transportation. In every case in which she is not intimidated or forced into the transportation, the statute necessarily contemplates her acquiescence. Yet this acquiescence, though an incident of a type of transportation specifically dealt with by the statute, was not made a crime
under the Mann Act itself. Of this class of cases we say
that the substantive offense contemplated by the statute
itself involves the same combination or community of
purpose of two persons only which is prosecuted here as
conspiracy. If this were the only case covered by the Act,
it would be within those decisions which hold, consistently
theory (see United States v. Rabinowuich, supra, 86) that only a bankrupt may commit the substantive offense though we do not intimate
that others might not be held as principals under Criminal Code,
§ 332 (18 U. S. C., § 550). Cf. Barron v. United States, 5 F. (2d) 799.
In like manner Chadunck v. United States, 141 Fed. 225, sustained
the conviction of one not an officer of a national bank for conspiring
with an officer to commit a crime which only he could commit. And
see United States v. Martin,4 Cliff. 156; United States v. Stevens, 44
Fed. 132.

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 US.

with the theory upon which conspiracies are punished,
that where it is impossible under' any circumstances to
commit the substantive offense without co~perative action, the preliminary agreement between the same parties
to commit the offense is not an indictable conspiracy
either at common law, Shannon and Nugent v. Common-wealth, 14 Pa. St. 226; Miles v. State, 58 Ala. 390; cf.
State v. Law, 189 Iowa 910; 179 N. W. 145; see State
ex reZ: Durner v. Huegin, 110 Wis. 189, 243; 85 N. W.
1046, or under the federal statute.' See United States V.
Katz, 271 U. S. 354, 355; Norris v. United States, 34 F.
(2d) 839, 841, reversed on other grounds, 281 U. S. 619;
United States v. Dietrich,126 Fed. 664, 667. But criminal
transportation under the Mann Act may be effected without the woman's consent, as in cases of intimidation or

force (with which we are not now concerned). We
assume therefore, for present purposes, as was suggested
in the Hotte case, supra, 145, that the decisions last mentioned do not in all strictness apply.7 We do not rest
'The rule was applied in United State&v. N. Y. C.&H. R. R. Co.,
146 Fed. 298; United States v. Sager,49 F. (2d) 725. In the following
cases it was recognized and held inapplicable for the reason that the
substantive crime could be committed by a single individual. Chadwick v. United States, 141 Fed. 225; Laughter v. United States, 259
Fed. 94; Lisansky v. United States, 31 F. (2d) 846, certiorari denied
279 U. S. 873. The conspiracy was also deemed criminal where it
contemplated the coSperation of a greater number of parties than
were necessary to the .commission of the principal offense, as in
Thomas v. United States, 156 Fed. 897; McKnight v. United States,
252 Fed. 687; cf-.. Vannata v. United-States, 289 Fed. 424; Ex parte
O'Leary, 53 F. (2d) 956. Compare Queen v. Whitchurch, 24 Q. B. D.
420.
'It should be noted that there are many cases not constituting
"a serious and substantially continued group. scheme for coSperative
law breakipg" which may well fall within the recommendation of the
1925 conference of senior circuit judges that the conspiracy indictment
be adopted "only after a careful, conclusion that the public interest
so requires.' Att'y Gen. Rep. 1925, pp. 5, 6.

GEBARDI v. UNITED STATES.
112

Opinion of the Court.

our decision upon the theory of those cases, nor upon the
related one that the attempt is to prosecute as, conspiracy
acts identical with the substantive offense. United States
v. Dietrich, 126 Fed. 664. We place it rather upon the
ground that we perceive in the failure of the Mann Act
to condemn the woman's participation in those transportations which are effected with her mere consent, evidence
of an affirmative legislative policy to leave her acqui,escence unpunished. We think it a necessary implication of that policy that when the Mann Act and the
conspiracy statute came to be construed together, as they
necessarily would be, the same participation which the
former contemplates as an inseparable incident of all
cases'in which the woman is a voluntary agent at all, but
does not punish, was not automatically to be made punishable under the latter. It would contravene that policy
to hold that the very passage of the Mann Act effected a
withdrawal by the conspiracy statute of that immunity
which the Mann Act itself confers.
It is not to be supposed that the consent of an unmarried person to adultery with a married person, where
the latter alone is guilty of the substantive offense, would
render the former an abettor or a conspirator, compare
In re Cooper, 162 Cal. 81, 85; 121 Pac. 318, or that the
acquiescence of a woman under the age of consent would
make her a co-conspirator with the man to commit statutory rape upon herself. Compare Queen v. Tyrrell,
[1894] 1 Q. B. 710. The principle, determinative of this
case, is the same.
On the evidence before us the woman petitioner has not
violated the Mann Act and, we hold, is not guilty of a
conspiracy to do so. As there is no proof that the man
conspired with anyone else to bring about the transportation, the convictions of both petitioners must be
Reversed.
MR. JusTIcE CmAiozo concurs in the result.

