OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for Parties.

287 U.S.

ELTING, COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS, v. NORTH
GERMAN LLOYD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 42.

Argued November 10, 11, 1932.--Decided December 5, 1932.

1. Section 6 of the Quota Act, as amended, imposing penalties for
bringing to the United States any' alien not admissible under the
terms of the Act, applies to all aliens who are not within the quota
or one of the excepted classes, whether seeking admission as immigrants or not. P. 327.
2. A penalty under the section may legally be imposed upon a transportation company for bringing to the United States an alien who
upon arrival is found to be inadmissible, although the statute imposes no penalty, other than possible exclusion, upon the alien for
coming here to present evidence in support of his right to enter.
"
P. 327.
3. The Secretary did not abuse his discretion in refusing to remit a
.fine for bringing an inadmissible alien to the United States, where
he gave the carrier a hearing and acted on substantial evidence
tending to show that, by the exercise of reasonable diligence in
making inquiry of the alien before-saling, it could have ascertained
that the alien was not entitled to fidmission as a member of an
excepted class. P. 328.
4. The transportation company was bound to know the law that a
consular visa on the alien's passport, noting that he was going to
the United States "on business," did not of itself entitle the alien
to entry as a-member of that excepted class. P. 329. k
54 F. (2d) 997, reversed.
* CERTIORARI, 286 U. S. 538, to review a judgment affirming a judgment against the Coflector in a suit brought by
tle steamship company to recover a fine imposed on it
under the Quota Act.

Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher and Messrs. PaulD. Miller, W. S. Ward,
and Bradley B. Gilman were oh the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Melville J. France for respondent.

ELTING v. NORTH GERMAN. LLOYD.
324

325

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent, an operator of steamshiks, brought suit
in the District Court for Southern New York, to recover
a fine imposed on it by the Secretary of Labor, under § 6
of thp Quota Act of 1921, c. 8, 42 Stat. 5, as amended
May 11, 1922, c. 187, 42 Stat. 540, for bringing into the
United States an alien, inadmissible under that Act.
Upon pleadings and affidavits, the District Court gave
summary judgment for the respondent which was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, 54 F.
(2d) 997. The case is here on certiorari.
The Quota Act of 1921 imposed restrictions on the
number of immigrants of any nationality who might
annually be admitted to the United States, but provided
by § 2 (a) (4) that the restriction should not apply to
"aliens visiting the United States as tourists or temporariiy for business or pleasure." The 1922 amendment
of the Act added § 6,1 which provides:
"That it shall be unlawful for any person .. . to bring
to the United States . . . any alien not admissible under
the terms of this Act or regulations made thereunder, and
if it appears to the satisfaction of the Secretary of Labor
that any alien has been so brought, such person . . . shall
pay to the collector of customs . . . the sum of $200 for
each alien so brought, and in addition a sum equal to that
paid by such alien for his trdnsportation ... such latter
sum to be. delivered . . . to the alien ..
The section also provides:
," Such fine shall not be remitted or refunded unless it
appears to the satisfaction of the Secretary of Labor that
such inadmissibility was not known to, and could not have
been ascertained by the exercise of reasonable diligence
by, such person . . . prior to the departure of the ves-

sel..."
' § 6 of the Quota Act was superseded by § 16 of the Immigration
Act of 1924, c. 190, 43 Stat. 153, 163, 8 U. S. C., § 216.

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

The record in the present case raises no question of the
correctness or sufficiency of the procedure before the Secretary of Labor. The only issue is the legality upon the
unchallenged facts of the imposition of the fine and the
refusal of the Secretary to remit it.
On February 14, 1924, respondent brought a German
alien to the United States on its steamship "Bremen."
On embarkation the alien had represented to the respondent that he was going to the United States on a temporary visit for the purpose of collecting an inheritance, and
was in possession of a United States consular visa, bearing
the notation: "Purpose to proceed to the United States
on business only within the meaning of § 2 of the Restric.tive. Immigration -Law." Upon arrival in the United
States the alien was detained by immigration officials
and upon a hearing before a Board of Special Inquiry his
claim that he was visiting the United States temporarily
for business was rejected. He was ordered deported, on
the ground that he was a quota immigrant and the quota
.applicable to his nationality was then exhausted. At the
hearing before the Board it appeared that *hearrived without money or a return ticket. His passage had been paid
by a relative in the United States. He claimed to be coming to the United States to collect an inheritance of $400,
but was without documentary evidence to support this
claim, and it had cost him nearly one-half of the amount-of the legacy to come here.
The Secretary notified the respondent that the ascertained facts indicated its liability to a fine (including the
repayment of passage .money) for bringing. the alien to
.the United States, but permitted the vessel to clear upon
respondent's depositing with. the collector under protest
the amounts to be paid. The imposition of the fine-was
protested on the ground that respondent had accepted the
alien for transportation in good faith, in reliance upon the
consular visa and the notation upon it. It does not

ELTING v. NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
324

327

Opinion of the Court.

appear, that the respondent' made any inquify as to the,
truth of the alien's claim to be a temporary visitor to the
United States for the purpose of collecting an inheritance.
After a hearing, the Secretary required payment of the
fine and. passage money and refused to remit the penalties.
The court below held that the fine was illegally imposed, for if the alien was in fact within the excepted class,
he was admissible;, hence it was lawful for him to come
to the United States to present evidence in support of his
right to enter, and it was lawful for the respondent to
bring him. The respondent argues here, in addition, that
the general purpose of the Quota Act was to exclude immigrants, and the provisions of § 6 imposing penalties for
bringing an " alien," must be read as applicable only to
aliens who seek admission as immigrants.
The statute itself answers the contention that the Act
does not apply because the alien did not embark as an
immigrant. Section 6 refers to "any alien not. admissible under the terms of this Act" and § 2 (d) provides
that when the aliens of any nationality admitted in any
fiscal year shall exceed the quota "all other aliens of such
nationality, except as otherwise provided in this Act, who
may apply for admission during the same fiscal year, shall
be excluded." -Thus all aliens, whether they seek admission as immigrants or not, if they are not within the quota
or one of the exbepted classes, are "not admissible under
the terms of" the Quota Act.
We do not think it can be said, in the face of the explicit
language of the statute, that the respondent could lawfully bring the alien, because he lawfully might come to
the United States. The statute imposes no penalty upon
the alien for coming beyond the possible denial of his application to enter. But it does declare that it shall be unlawful for the steamship company to bring him if "not
admissible," as was the case, and imposes the penalty if

-

-328

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

the Secretary finds, as he did, that an inadmissible alien
has been brought. In plain terms the Act placed on respondent the burden of acting at its peril that the fine
might be imposed in the case of this alien, as with any
other, if the event should prove that he was inadmissible.
Whether the same result would follow if, as in Compagnie
Francaise de Navigation a Vapeur v. Elting, 19 F. (2d)
773; see North German Lloyd v. Elting, 48 F. (2d) 547,
549, the-line transported an alien entitled under the Immigration Rules to present evidence that he had not abandoned a domicil previously acquired in the United States,
we need not now determine.
The burden which the statute imposes on the transportation companies is lightened, though not removed,2
by the pro.vision authorizing the Secretary to remit the
fine if it appears to his satisfaction that the inadmissibility of the alien could not have been ascertained by the
steamship company " by the exercise of reasonable diligence " before sailing. We assume that it was the duty of
the Secretary to remit the fine if the evidence established
that the alien's inadmissibility could not have been ascertained by respondent by the exercise of reasonable diligence before the vessel sailed. But we cannot say that the
discretion which, under the statute he alone may exercise,
was abused. Respondent was bound to know the law that
2

Section 6 of the Quota Act of 1921 was added .by amendmeht of
May '11, 1922, 'c. 187, 42 Stat. 540. The amendment, as originally
introduced imposed a fine upon the steamship company for bringing
to the United States an alien who was inadmissible under the statute
and ended with the words "and such fine shall not be remitted or
refunded." In conference the words quoted were dleleted'and what is
now the third sentence of § 6, providing for. remission of the fine by
the Secretary, was substituted. H. R. No. 945, 67th Cong., 2d Sess.
Before this change-the effect of the section was to impose the fine
withput qualification if the steamship company brought to the United
States an inadmissible alien. The addition of provisions for remission

of the fine, once imposed, did not alter its meaning.

LLOYD SABAUDO SOCIETA v. ELTING.
324

329

Syllabus.

the consular visa on the alien's passport did not entitle
him to entry as a member of the excepted class. Cf.
.United States ex rel. Spinosa v. Curran, 4 F. (2d) 613,
affirmed, 4 F. (2d) 614. The Secretary gave respondent
a hearing and acted on substantial evidence, already detailed, tending to show that by the exercise of reasonable
diligence in making inquify of the alien before sailing, the
respondent could have ascertained that he was not entitled
to admission as a member of the excepted class.
Reversed.
LLOYD SABAUDO SOCIETA ANONIMA PER
AZIONI v. ELTING, COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 48.

Argued November 11, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

1. On certiorari only so much of the judgment below as was adverse
to*the petitioner is reviewable. P. 331.
2. Section 9 of the Immigration Act of 1917, as amended, which confers upon the Secretary of Labor, as an administrative officer,
authority to impose money penalties upon persons or transportation
companies bringing to the United States aliens afflicted with any of
the diseases therein enumerated,, or with any mental or physical
'defect which may affect his ability to earn a living, when it appears
to the satisfaction of the Secretary that such disease or defect was
existent and discoverable by competent medical -examination at the
time of embarkation, was a valid exercise of the power of Congress.
P. 334.
3. The statute is an incident to the exercise by Congress of its plenary
power to cdntrol the admission of aliens,.and inasmuch as the fines
prescribed are not unreasonable or confiscatory in anount, their
imposition by administrative action, rather than by judicial procedure, does not deny due process. P. 335.
4. In determining liability under the sectidn, the Secretary's conclusion as to the weight of the evidence is final, and his determination
will not be set aside where challenged solely* upon this ground.
P. 338.

