PALMER v. BENDER.
544

551

Syllabus.

operating loss of the Sales Company for that year, there
was. no duplication of any losses accrued or sustained in
that year,
The loss was a real one, buffered by. respondent as a
separate corporate.entity, and it was equally a loss suffered
by the single business carried on by the two corporations
during the period of their affiliation, ultimately reflected
in the 1917 loss 6f capital invested in that business.
While -equitable principles of accounting applied. to the
calculation of the net income of the business, unit do not
permit deduction of the loss twice, they do require its
deduction once. Hence, the loss was deductible in 117
under the statute and regulations controlling computation
of taxable income, and its deduction is not forbidden by
the regulations applicable to the consolidated return. Articles 77 and 78 of Treasury Regulations 41 would, indeed;,
require the eliminaion of any losses resulting from inteicompany transactions the inclusion of which would defeat
the purpose of consolidated returns to tax the true income
of the single business of affiliated corporations, calculated
by correct accounting methods. The. deductions claimed
here had no such effect.
Affirmed.
PALMER v. BENDER ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 215. Argued December 14, 15, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.
Section 214 of the Revenue Act of 1921 directs that a.reasonable allowance for depletion be made as a deduction in computing net taxable
income, "in the case of oil and gas wella... according to the.
peculiar conditions of each case." Held:
1. That the interests to which the allowaice applies are determined by the statute itself, as construed, aid not by their formal
characterization in the local law. P. 555.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Respondent.

287 U.S.

2. A lessee of oil wells who transfers them to another, stipulating
for a royalty or bonus from oil to be produced, thereby retains an
economic interest in the oil in place, which is depleted by production and which comes within the meaning and purpose of the statute, whether his conveyance be deemed by the law of the State a
sublease or an assignment. P. 558.
57 F. (2d) 32, reversed.

CERTIoRARI * to review the affirmance of a judgment, 49
F. (2d) 316, denying in part the petitioner's claim in an
action to recover money paid as income taxes. The action
was begun against the Collector and the administratrix
was substituted upon his death.

, Mr. John H. Tucker, Jr., with whom Messrs. Fred R.
Angevine, Henry P. Dart, Jr., and Henry P. Dart were
on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, and Messrs. Whitney- North
Seymour, J. Louis Monarch, and Andrew D. Sharpe were
ori the brief, for respondent.
Petitioner relies on Murphy Oil Co. v. Burnet, 287
U. S. 299, but that case can have no present application
*forit dealt with the right of a lessor to deduct depletion.
The partnerships of which petitioner was a member were
neither lessors nor sublessors of oil properties: Upon
execution of the instruments, petitioner and his associates
parted with their entire interest. Thereafter they retained no - depletable property against which an allowance could be made. The petitioner apparently recognizes that if this was the case there is no basis for a
depletion allowance to him and the question therefore is,
whether such instruments constituted assignments effecting a sale, or subleases.
The Revenue Act -of. 1921, § 213 (a), c. 136, 42 Stat.
227, 237-238, provides that the gain, profits, or income
See Table qf Cases Reported in this volume.

PALMER v. BENDER.
551

553

Opinion of the Court.

from the sale of property is gross income. The basis for
ascertaining the gain derived from the sale 'of property
acquired after February 28, 1913, is the cost. Revenue
Act of 1921, § 202 (a), 42 Stat. 227, 229. No provision
allows a deduction for depletion from the amount received upon a sale of property in mineral deposits, or
for exhaustion in case of the sale -ofan incorporeal right.
Under the law of Louisiana, and generally in common
law jurisdictions, the instruments were assignments and
not leases. Presumably the local law would control in
this case. See Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103. Whichever law is to be applied the fesult is the same. The:
transfers in question effected "a sale or other disposition
of property" within the meaning of § 202 (a) of the
Revenue Act of 1921.
MR.JusTICM STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner brought suit in the District Court for Western- Louisiana to recover taxes alleged to have been illegally exacted for 1921 and 1922 upon income derived
from oil properties by petitioner as a member of tWo partnerships, known respectively as the Smitherman and
Baird partnerships. Both partnerships, after 1913,
acquired oil and gas leases of unproved Louisiana lands
and engaged in drilling operations on them which"resulted
in discovery of oil on March 30, 1921, in the case of the
Smithermari leases, and on August 23, 1919, in the case of
the Baird leases.
In April, 1921, the Smitherman partnership executed
a writing by which it conferred on the Ohio Oil Company
the right to take over a part -of the leased property on
which the producing well was located, subject to the obligations of the covenants of the leases, in consideration
of a present payment of a cash bonus, a future payment
to be made "out of one-half of the first oil produced and
saved" to the extent of $1,000,000, and an additional "ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court..

287 U.S.

cess royalty" of one-eighth of all the oil produced and
saved. The instrument in terms stated that the partnership "does sell, assign, set over, transfer and deliver . . .
unto -the Ohio Oil Company" the described leased
premises. The Baird partnership, in November, 1921,
gave a similar document to the Gulf Refining Company
containing some additional features which in the view we
take are immaterial. It too stipulated for future payment
of royalties in kind from the oil produced and saved.
Petitioner's tax returns for the years 1921 and 1922 reported his distributive share of the income from the
Smitherman partnership, derived from the bonus payment and oil received under its contract with the Ohio Oil
Company, and also his share in the income from the Baird
partnership from oil received under its contract with the
Gulf Refining Company. In the returns for both years
petitioner, relying upon the provisions of § 214 (a) (10)
of the Revenue Act of 1921, 42 Stat. 239, regulating depletion allowances in the case of oil and gas wells, made a
deduction for depletion based on the value of the oil in
place in the two properties on the respective dates of
discovery.
The Commissioner refused to allow these deductions, on
the theory that *both transactions were sales of the leases
by the partnerships and that the only allowable deductions, in calculating taxable gain, are those based upon
the cost of the respective properties to petitioner, in each
case materially less than their value at the date of the discovery of oil. This resulted in the assessment and payment of an increased tax which is the subject of the present suit. Judgment of the-District Court, 49 F. (2d) 316,
denying petitioner the right to make the deductions
claimed, was affirmed by the Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit, 57 F. (2d)"32. This court granted certiorari.
Both courts below, following earlier decisioiis of the
Court of Appeals with respect to the two instruments

PALMER v. BENDER.
551

555

Opinion of the Court.

involved here, held that they were assignments or sales
of the leases for the stipulated consideration of bonus paid
and royalties to be received. See Waller v. Commissioner,
40 F. (2d) 892; Herold v. Commissioner, 42 F. (2d) 942.
The Government rests its case on this conclusion. It concedes that if any reversionary interest, according to the
common law, however small, has been retained in the
leased land by the two 1artnerships, the petitioner is en-titled to the depletion allowances claimed, but insists that
no such interest was reserved by the instruments in ques-.
tion. Petitioner contends that by the Louisiana law any
transfer of an interest in land, yielding to the transferor,
as consideration, the fruits of the land as they may be
produced, such as the royalty oil in the present case, must
be regarded as a lease. See Robertson v. Pioneer Gas
Company, 173 La. 313. From. this he concludes that the
two instruments were subleases and invokes the rule recently affirmed in Murphy Oil Co. v. Burnet, ante; p. 299,
that the lessor of an oil and gas well is entitled to a depletion allowance-upon bonus and royalties received from the
lessee, under § 234 (a) (9) of the Revenue Act of 1918.
Section 214 (a) (10) of the Revenue Act of 1921, which
is applicable here, contains the same provisions.
It hbs been elaborately argued at the bar and ii the
briefs whether under Louisiana law the two insttuments
are assignments or subleases. We do. not think the distinction material. Nothing in § 214 (a) (10) indicates
that its application is to be controlled or varied -by any
particular characterization by local law of the interests to
which it is to be applied. See Burnet v. Harmel, ante, p.
103. We look to the statute itself and to the decisions
construing it to ascertain to what interests it is to be applied and then to the particular interests secured to the
two partnerships by the instruments in question *toascertain whether they come within the statutory provision.
The formal attributes of those instruments or the descrip-

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
287 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

tive terminology which may be applied to them in the
local law are both irrelevant.
Sec. 214 (a) (10) of the Act of 1921 so far as now material is printed in the margin.' It will be observed that
the statute directs that reasonable allowance for depletion be made as a deduction in computing net taxable income, "in the case of oil and gas wells, . . . according to
the peculiar conditions in each case." The allowance to
the taxpayer is not restricted by the words of the statute
to cases of any particular class or to any special form of
legal interest in the oil well. It is true that under Article
215 of Treasury Regulations 62 the lessor of an oil or gas
well is entitled to a depletion allowance upon the bonus
and royalties received from the lessee. See Murphy Oil
Co. v. Buret, supra. But there is nothing in the statute
or regulations which confines depletion allowances to
those who are technically lessors. The- conclpding sentence of the section that "In the case of leases the deductions allowed by this paragraph shall be equitably appor'Sec. 214. (a) That in computing net income there shall be allowed
as deductions:
(10) In the case of mines, oil and gas wells,

a reasonable

...

allowance for depletion and for *depreciationof improvements, according to the peculiar conditions in each case, based upon cost including
cost of development

not otherwise deducted:

.

.

. Provided

further, That in the case of mines, oil and gas wells, discovered by the
taxpayer, on or after March 1, 1913, and not-acquired as the result of
purchase of a proven tract or lease, where the fair market value of
the property is materially disproportionate to the cost, the depletion
allowance shall be based upon the fair market value of the property
at the date of the discovery, or within thirty days thereafter: . . .
such reasonable allowance in all the above cases to be made under
rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Commissioner, with the
approval of the Secretary. In the case of leases the deductions
allowed by this paragrafih shall be .equitably apportioned between

the lessor and the lessee. ...

PALMER v. BENDER.
551

Opinion of the Court.

tioned between the lessor and the lessee" presupposesthat the deductions may be allowed in other cases. The
language of the statute is broad enough to provide, at
least, for every case in which the taxpayer has 'acquired,
by investment, any interest in the oil in place, and se-

cures, by any form of legal relationship,, income derived
from the extraction of the oil, to which he must look for

a return of his capital.
That the allowance for depletion is not made dependent
upon the particular legal form of the taxpayer's interest
in the property to be depleted was xecognized by this
Court in Lynch v. Alworth-Stephens Co., 267 U. S. 364.
There a depletion allowance under § 12 (a) of the 1916
Act, 39 Stat. 767, was claimed by a lessee of a mining lease,
in the computation of tax on income from the proceeds-of
ore mined. The'statute made no specifi reference to
lessees and the Government argued that as the lessee
acquired no ownership of the ore until the severance from
the soil -(see United States v. Biwabik Mining Co., 247
U.S. 116, 123) the lease gave him no depletable interest
in the ore in place. But this Court.held that' regardless
of the technical ownership of the ore before severance,
the taxpayer, by his lease, had acquired legal control of
a-valuable economic interest in the ore capable of realization as gross income by the exercise of his mining rights
under the lease. Depletion was, therefore, allowed.
Similarly, the lessor's right to a depletion allowance
does not depend upon his retention of ownership' or any
other particular form of legal interest in the mineral content of the land. It is enough if, by virtue of the leasing
transaction, he has retained a right to share in the oil
produced. If so he has an economic interest in the oil,
in place, which is depleted by production. Thus, we have
recently held that the lessor is entitled to a depletion allowance on bonus and royalties, although by the local

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

law ownership of the minerals, in place, passed from the
lessor upon the execution of th6 lease. See Burnet v. Harmel, supra; Bankers PocahontasCoal Co. v. Burne., ante
p. 308.
In the present case the two partnerships acquired, by
the leases to them, complete legal control of the oil in
place. Even though legal ownership of it, in a technical
sense, remained in their lessor, they, as lessees, nevertheless acquired an economic interest in it which represented
their capital investment and was subject to depletion
under the statute. Lynch v. Alworth-Stephens Co.,
supra. When the two lessees transferred their operating
rights to the two oil companies, whether they became
technical sublessors or not, they retained, by their stipulations for .royalties, an economic interest in the oil, in
place, identical with that of a lessor. Burnet v. Harmel,
supra; Bankers Pocahontas Coal Co. v. Burnet, supra.
Thus, throughout their changing 'relationships with resppct to the properties, the oil in the ground was a reservoir of capital investment of the several parties, all of
whom, the original lessors, the two partnerships and their
transferees, were entitled to share in the oil produced.
Production and sale of the oil would result in its depletion
and also in a return of capital investment to the parties
according to, their respective interests. The loss or destruction of the oil at any time from the date of the leases
until complete extraction would have resulted in loss to
the partnerships. Such an interest is, we think, included
within the meaning and purpose of the statute permitting
deduction in the case of oil and gas wells of a reasonable
allowance for depletion according to the peculiar conditions in each 'case.
The statute makes effective the legislative policy, favoring the discoverer of oil, by valuing his capital investment for purposes of depletion at the date of the discovery
rather than-at its original cost. The benefit of it accrues-

PALMER v. BENDER.
551

559

Opinion of the Court.

to the discoverer if he operates the well as -owner or lessee,
or if he leases it to another. It would be an anomaly if
that policy were to be defeated and all benefit of the depletion allowance withheld because he chose to secure the
return of his capital investment by stipulating for a share
of the oil produced from- the discovered well through
operation by another.
The bonus received by the Smitherman partnership was
a return pro tanto of the petitioner's capital investment
in the oil, in anticipation of its extraction, resulting in a
corresponding diminution in the unit depletion allowance
upon the royalty oil as produced. Comfpare Murphy Oil
Co. v. Burnet, supra.
Reversed.

