462

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

did not depend upon the determination of the liability of
the Government to contribute in general average. The
question of that liability could not be regarded as free
from doubt. The cargo underwriters had made claim for
contribution and the Judge Advocate General of the Army
had advised that the claim was valid. On receiving this
information, it was the duty of the officer responsible for
the operation of the vessel to prepare the general average
statement in order that the basis for adjustment might
be available. Ralli v. Troop, 157 U. S. 386, 400. That
duty, in this instance, apart from the question of the liability of the Government for general average as to which
it is not now necessary to express an opinion, lay with
the general superintendent and administrative officer of
the Army Transport Service, and in order that he might
properly perform it, he was entitled to avail himself of
the assistance of general average adjusters.
Judgment reversed.
PINELLAS ICE & COLD STORAGE CO. v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 182.

Argued December 12, 13, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.

1. A sale by one corporation to another of all of its property for a
money consideration part in cash and the remainder to be paid in
instalments evidenced meanwhile by the oromissory notes of the
vendee, held not to be an "exchange" of property for cash and
"securities" by a "party to a reorganization," within the meaning
of § 203 (b) (3) (h) of the Revenue Act of 1926, which provides
that in, the transactions to which it refers the gain or loss shall not
be considered in computing the income tax of the transferor. P. 468.

PINELLAS ICE CO. v. COMMISSIONER.
462

463

Opinion of the Court.

2. To constitute a "reorganization" within the meaning of § 203
(b) (3) (h) (A) of the Revenue Act of 1926, it is not essential that
there be a merger or consolidation in the technical sense. P. 469.
57 F. (2d) 188, affirmed.

CERTioIAi I to review the affirmance of a decision of
the Board of Tax Appeals, 2i B. T. A. 425, upholding an
added assessment of income tax.
Mr. Albert L. Hopkins, with whom Messrs. Harry B.
Sutter and Jay C. Halls were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist,
and Messrs. Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch, and Erwin N.
Griswold were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MOREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner, a Florida corporation, made and sold ice at
St. Petersburg. Substantially the same stockholders
owned the Citizens Ice and Cold Storage Company, engaged in like business at the same place. In February,
1926, Lewis, general manager of both companies, began
negotiations for the sale of their properties to the National
Public Service Corporation. Their directors and stockholders were anxious to sell, distribute the assets and dissolve the corporations. The prospective vendee desired
to acquire the properties of both companies, but not of
one without the other.
In October, 1926, agreement was reached and the vendor's directors again approved the plan for distribution and
dissolution. In November, 1926, petitioner and the National Corporation entered into a formal written contract
conditioned upon a like one by the Citizens Company.
This referred to petitioner as "vendor" and the National
Corporation as "purchaser." The former agreed to sell,
'See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

the latter to purchase the physical property, plants etc.,
"together with the goodwill of the business, free and clear
of all defects, liens, encumbrances, taxes and assessments
for the sum of $1,400,000, payable as hereinafter provided." The specified date and place for consummation
were eleven A. M., December 15, 1926, and 165 Broadway, New York City, when "the vendor shall deliver to
the purchaser instruments of conveyance and transfer by
general warranty in form satisfactory to the purchaser of
The purchaser shall pay to
the property set forth ....
the vendor the sum of $400,000.00 in cash." The balance
of the purchase price ($1,000,000.00) shall be paid $500,000.00 on or before January 31, 1927; $250,000.00 on or
before March 1, 1927; $250,000.00 on or before April 1st,
1927. Also, the deferred installments of the purchase
price shall be evidenced by the purchaser's 6% notes,
secured either by notes or bonds of the Florida West Coast
Ice Company, thereafter to be organized to take title, or
other satisfactory collateral; or by 6% notes of such Florida company secured by first lien on the property conveyed, or other satisfactory collateral.
The vendor agreed to procure undertakings by E. T.
Lewis and Leon D. Lewis not to engage in manufacturing
or selling ice in Pinellas County, Florida, for ten years.
The $400,000 cash payment was necessary for discharge
of debts, liens, encumbrances, etc. The Florida Company,
incorporated December 6, 1926, took title to the property
and executed the purchase notes secured as agreed. These
were paid at or before maturity except the one for 8100,000, held until November, 1927, because of flaw in a title.
As the notes were paid petitioner immediately distributed
the proceeds to its stockholders according to the plan.
The property conveyed to the Florida Company included all of petitioner's assets except a few vacant lots
worth not more than $10,000, some accounts-3,000 face
value-also a small amount of cash. Assets, not exceed-

PINELLAS ICE
462

QO.

v. COMMISSIONER. 465

Opinion of the Court.

ing 1% of the whole, were transferred to the Citizens
Holding Corporation as trustee for petitioner's stockholders-99% of all vendor's property went to the Florida
Company. The plan of the whole arrangement as carried
out was accepted by petitioner's officers and stockholders
prior to November 4, 1926.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue determined
that the petitioner derived taxable gain exceeding $500,000
and assessed it accordingly under the Act of 1926. The
Board of Tax Appeals and the Circuit Court of Appeals
approved this action.
The facts are not in controversy. The gain is admitted;
but it is said this was definitely exempted from taxation
by § 203, Revenue Act of 1926.
The Act, approved February 26, 1926, c. 27, 44 Stat. 9,
11, 12,-"Sec. 202. (a) Except as hereinafter provided in this
section, the gain from the sale or other disposition of
property shall be the excess of the amount realized therefrom over the basis provided in subdivision (a) or (b) of
section 204, and the loss shall be the excess of such basis
over the amount realized.

"(b) ....

"(c) The amount realized from the sale or other disposition of property shall be the sum of any money received
plus the fair market value of the property (other than
money) received.
"(d) In the case of a sale or exchange, the extent to
which the gain or loss determined under this section shall
be recognized for the purposes of this title, shall be determined under the provisions of section 203.

"1(e) .....

"Sec. 203. (a) Upon the sale or exchange of property
the entire amount of the gain or loss, detdrmined under
section 202, shall be recognized, except as hereinafter provided in this section.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

"(b) (1) and (2) .....
"(3) No gain or loss shall be recognized if a corporation a party to a reorganization exchanges property, in
pursuance of the plan of reorganization, solely for stock
or securities in another corporation a party to the reorganization.
"(4) and (5) ......
"(c) and (d) ......
"(e) If an exchange would be within the provisions
of paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) if it were not for the
fact that the property received in exchange consists not
only of stock or securities permitted.by such paragraph
to be received without the recognition of gain, but also
of other property or money, then"(1) If the corporation receiving such other property
or money distributes it in pursuance of the plan of reorganization, no gain to the corporation shall be recognized
from the exchange, but
"(2) If the corporation receiving such other property
or money does not distribute it in pursuance of the plan
of reorganization, the gain, if any, to the corporation
shall be recognized, but in an amount not in excess of
the sum of such money and the fair market value of
such other property so received, which is not so distributed.
"(h) As used in this section and sections 201 and
204"(1) The term reorganization' means (A) a merger or
consolidation (including the acquisition by one corporation of at least a majority of the voting stock and at
least a majority of the total number of shares of all other
classes of stock of another corporation, or substantially
all the properties of another corporation), or (B) a transfer by a corporation of all or a part of its assets to an-

PINELLAS I!'E CO. v. COMMISSIONER.
462

467

Opinion of the Court.

other corporation if immediately after the transfer the
transferor or its stockholders or both are in control of the
corporation to which the assets are transferred, or (C)
a recapitalization, or (D) a mere change in identity, form,
or place of organization, however effected.
"(2) The term 'a party to a reorganization' includes
a corporation resulting from a reorganization and includes
both corporations in the case of an acquisition by one
corporation of at least a majority of the voting stock
and at least a majority of the total number of shares
of all other classes of stock of another corporation."
All of § 203 (b) is in the margin.*
Counsel for the petitioner maintainThe record discloses a "reorganization" to which petitioner was party and a preliminary plan strictly pursued.
*

See. 203 (a) 'Upon the sale or exchange of property the entire

amount of the gain or loss, determined under section 202, shall be
recognized, except as hereinafter provided in this section.
(b) (1) No gain or loss shall be recognized if property held for
productive use in trade or business or for investment (not including
stock in trade or other property held primarily for sale, nor stocks,
bonds, notes, choses in action, certificates of trust or beneficial interest,
or other securities or evidences of indebtedness or interest) is
exchanged solely for property of a like kind to be held either for
productive use in trade or business or for investment, or if common
stock in a corporation is exchanged solely for common stock in the
same corporatibn, or if preferred stock in a corporation is exchanged
solely for preferred stock in the same corporation. •
(2) No gain or loss shall be recognized if stock or securities in a
corporation a party to a reorganization are, in pursuance of the plan
of reorganization, exchanged solely'for stock or securities in such
corporation or in another corporation a party to the reorganization.
(3) No gain or loss shall be recognized if a corporation a party to
a reorganization exchanges property, in pursuance of the plan of
reorganization, solely for stock or securities in another corporation
a party.to the reorganization.
(4) No gain or loss shall be recognized if prope'ty is transferred
to a corporation by one or more persons solely ii exchange for stock

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

The Florida West Coast Ice Company acquired substantially all of petitioner's property in exchange for cash and
securities which were promptly distributed to the latter's
stockholders. Consequently, under § 203, the admitted
gain was not taxable.
The Board of Tax Appeals held that the transaction in
question amounted to a sale of petitioner's property for
money and not an exchange for securities within the true
meaning of the statute. It, accordingly and as we think
properly, upheld the Commissioner's action.
The "vendor" agreed "to sell" and "the purchaser"
agreed "to purchase" certain described property for a
definite sum of money. Part of this sum was paid in
cash; for the balance the purchaser executed three promissory notes, secured by the deposit of mortgage bonds,
payable, with interest, in about forty-five, seventy-five,
and one hundred and five days, respectively. These
notes-mere evidence of obligation to pay the purchase
price--were not securities within the intendment of the
or 'securities in such corporation, and immediately after the exchange
such person or persons are in control of- the corporation; but in the
case of an exchange by two or more persons this paragraph shall
apply only if the amount of the stock and securities received by each
is substantially in proportion to his interest in the property prior
to the exchange.
(5) If property (as a result of its destruction in whole or in part,
theft or seizure, or an exercise of the power of requisition or condemnation, or the threat or imminence thereof) is. compuls6rily or
involuntarily converted into property similar or related in service
or use to the property so converted, or into money which is forthwith
in good faith, under regulations prescribed by the Commissioner with
the approval of the Secretary, expended in the acquisition of other
property similar or related in service or use to the property so converted, or in the acquisition of control of a corporation owning such
other property, or in the establishment of a replacement fund, no
gain or loss shall be recognized. If any part of the money is not so
expended, the gain, if any, shall be recognized, but in an amount not
in excess of the money which is not so expended.

PINELLAS ICE CO. v. COMMISSIONER. 469
462 -

Opinion of the Court.

act and were properly regarded as the equivalent of cash.
It would require clear language to lead us to conclude
that Congress intended to grant exemption to one who
sells property and for the purchase price accepts wellsecured, short-term notes, (all payable within four
months), when another who makes a like sale and receives
cash certainly would be taxed. We can discover no good
basis in reason for the contrary view and its acceptance
would make evasion of taxation very easy. In substance
the petitioner sold for the equivalent of cash; the gain
must be recognized.
The court below held that the facts disclosed failed to
show a "reorganization"
within the statutory -definition. And, in the circumstances, we approve that conclusion. 'But the construction which the court seems to
have placed upon clause A, paragraph (h) (1), § 203, we
think is too narrow. It conflicts with established practise
of the tax officers and if passed without comment may
produce perplexity.
The court said--" It must be assumed that in adopting
paragraph (h) Congress intended to use the words
'merger' and 'consolidation' in their ordinary and
accepted meanings. Giving the matter in parenthesis the
most liberal construction, it is only when there is an
acquisition of substantially all the property of anothb.'.
corporation in connection with a. merger or consolidation
that a reorganization takes place. Clause (B) of the
paragraph removes any doubt as to the intention of Congress on this point."
The paragraph in question directs--"The term 'reorganization' means (A) a merger or consolidation (including the acquisition by one corporation of at least a majority of the voting stock and at least a majority of the total
number of shares of all other classes of stock of another
corporation, or substantially all the properties of another
corporation)." The words within the parenthesis may

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

not be disregarded. They expand the meaning of
"merger " or "consolidation" so as to include some
things which partake of the nature of a merger or consolidation but are beyond the ordinary and commonly
accepted meaning of those words--so as to embrace circumstances difficult to delimit but which in strictness
cannot be designated as either merger or consolidation.
But the mere purchase for money of the assets of one
Company by another is beyond the evident purpose of
the provision, and has no real semblance to a merger or
consolidation. Certainly, we think that to be within the
exemption the seller must acquire an interest in the
affairs of the purchasing company more definite than that
incident to ownership of its short-term purchase-money
notes. This general view is adopted and well sustained
in Cortland Specialty Co. v. Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, 60 F. (2d) 937, 939, 940. It harmonizes with
the underlying purpose of the provisions in respect of
exemptions and gives some effect to all the words
employed.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. ARZNER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 191.

Argued December 13, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.

Where the holder of a lapsed policy of war-risk term insurance reinstates and converts his insurance into an ordinary life policy and
thereafter surrenders this policy upon payment of its cash surrender value, he is entitled, under § 307 of the World War Veterans'
Act of 1924, as amended by the Act of July 3, 1930, to recover
upon the original teiji policy for total and permanent disability occurring during the life of such policy, even though the converted

