518

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

There being nothing to indicate any other purpose,
Congress must be deemed to have intended that in § 3a
(1) "creditors" should be given the meaning usually
attributed to it when used in the common law definition of
fraudulent conveyances. See Coder v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223,
242. Lansing Boiler & Engine Works v. Ryerson, 128
Fed. 701, 703. Githens v. Shiffler, 112 Fed. 505. Under
the common law rule a creditor having only a contingent
claim, such as was that of the petitioner at the time respondent made the transfer in question, is protected
against fraudulent conveyance. And petitioner, from the
time that it became surety on Mogliani's bond, was entitled as a creditor under the agreement to invoke that
rule. Yeend v. Weeks, 104 Ala. 331, 341; 16 So. 165.
Whitehouse v. Bolster, 95 Me. 458; 50 Atl. 240. Mowry
v. Reed, 187 Mass. 174, 177; 72 N. E. 936. Stonev. Myers,
9 Minn. 303. Cook v. Johnson, 12 N. J. Eq. 51. American Surety Co. v. Hattrem, 138 Ore. 358, 364; 3 P. (2d)
1109. U. S. Fidelity & GuarantyCo. v. CentropolisBank,
17 F. (2d) 913, 916. Th&nson v. Crane, 73 Fed. 327,
331.
As the Circuit Court of Appeals, upon constructions of
§§ 1 (9) and 3a (1) which we hold erroneous, disposed of
the case without deciding other questions there raised, the
decree will be reversed and the case will be remanded to
that court for further consideration and proceedings in
harmony with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
POBRESLO v. JOSEPH M. BOYD CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE 1SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 171.

Argued December 13, 1932.--Decided January 9, 1933.

1. Voluntary assignments for the benefit of creditors are not inconsistent with the purposes of .the federal Bankruptcy Act, though

POBRESLO v. BOYD CO.
518

Argument for Appellant.

subject to be set aside under it by timely petition of creditors.
P. 526.
2. Statutory provisions in Wisconsin regulating voluntary assignments
for the ratable benefit of all creditors of the assignor, and forbid-,.
ding that any creditor gain priority by attachment or garishment,
but not providing for discharge of the assignor or requiring his
release by creditors who would participate in the distribution,-held
not in conflict with the Bankruptcy Act. TnternationalShoe Co. v.
Pinkus, 278 U. S. 261, distinguished. Pp.,523-525.
210 Wis. 20; 242 N. W. 725, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment upholding an assignment for
the benefit of creditors and directing the dismissal of a
garnishment proceeding brought by a non-assenting
creditor.
Mr. C. G. Mathys, with whom Mr. R. M. Rieser was
on the brief, for appellant.
The Wisconsin law should be considered'in the light of
the fact that when it was enacted there was no Bankruptcy Act and hence no conflict, It was clearly a bankruptcy law then, and nothing has happened since to
change its character.
The early history of bankruptcy legislation demonstrates that discharge is not a necessary part of a
bankruptcy law. Remington, Bankruptcy, 3d ed., p. 1,
introduction.
The early Roman law impounded the debtor's property,
provided for its equitable distribution among creditors,
imposed penalties for fraud on the debtor's part, but contained no provision for discharge. Radin, Handbook of
Roman Law, p. 314. The first English bankruptcy act
contained no provision for discharge (34 Henry VIII,
1542); in fact it expressly forbade discharge. Queen
Anne's Act of 1705 contained the first p'rovision for discharge, conditioned upon the consent of a large proportion
of creditors. The state of the law on bankruptcy in Eng-

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellant.

287 U.S.

land at the time of the Revolution is set forth in Blackstone's Commentaries, Book II, c. XXXI.
The meaning of the constitutional grant of power given
to Congress under Art. I, § 8 of the Constitution, must be
viewed in the light of the English bankruptcy history.
Sexton v. Dreyfus,.219 U. S. 339, 344.
The first national bankruptcy law, passed in 1800, applied only. to traders, merchants and brokers.. Discharge
could not be had without the- written consent of twonumber and value of all creditors. 2 Stat. 19.
thirds in.
See Sturges v. Crouminshield,4 Wheat. 122, 194.
The main purpose of a bankruptcy law is the equitable
distribution of the insolvent estate among all creditors.
If a state law accomplishes that purpose, it is suspended
by the Bankruptcy Act. In re Klein, 1 How. 277, 280;
HanoverBank v. Moyses, 186 U. S.181,-186; Remington,
Bankruptcy, § 2110; Levinthal, 66 Pa. L. Rev. 223; Olmstead, "Bankruptcy, .A Commercial Regulation," 15 Harv.
L. .Rev., 829, "Its main objects are administration and
distribution, rather than relief of the debtor." In re
Leslie, 119 Fed. 406, 410; Pope v. Title Guaranty Co., 152
Wis. 611, 614.
This Court has held distribution to be the primary
character of a bankruptcy law. InternationalShoe Co. v.
Pinkus, 278 V. S. 261; Straton v. New, 283 U. S.318;
In re Watts, 190 U. S. 1. The lower federal courts have
held that discharge is not an essential element. In re
Weedman Stave Co., 199 Fed. 948; In re Smith, 92 Fed.
135; In fe Salmon, 143 Fed. 395; In re F. A. Hall Co., 121.
Fed. 992; In re Storck Lumber Co., 114 Fed. 366.
In the case of a corporation the discharge is a negligible
feature. In re Merchants Ins. Co., Fed. Cas. No. 9,441;
Exploratioih Mercantile Co. v. Pacific Hdw. Co., 177 Fed.
825, 828; In re F. A. Hall, 121 Fed. 992, 997. The Bankruptcy Act expressly prohibits discharge to certain'debtors. Congress by.making an assignment an act of bank-

POBRESLO v. BOYD CO.

521
5

Opinion of the Court.

518

ruptcy has clearly indicated its intention that assignments
for creditorsshould be administered in the federal court.
In re Curtis, 91 Fed. 737, 740; it re Gutwillig, -90 Fed.
475, 477.
Uniformity, the fundamental aim of the constitutional.
grant of power to Congress with respect to bankruptcies,
would be wholly destroyed by the enforcement of conflicting systems such -as that set. up by the Wisconsin
statutes.
In order to invalidate an assignment made. under the.
state law, it is not necessary that bankruptcy intervene.
A single creditor who cannot invoke the Bankruptcy Act
may disregard the assignment in garnishment proceedings.
Mr. Frank A. Ross, with whom Mr. William R. Bagley
was on the brief, for appellees.
Messrs. John W. Reynolds, Attorney General, and
Harold M.. Wikie, by leave of Court filed a brief on behalf of the State of Wisconsin, as amicus curiae."
MR.

JUSTICE

BuTIER delivered

the opinion of the Court.

.Chapter 128 of the Wisconsin Statutes, 1929, regulates
and controls voluntary assignments for the benefit of creditors and also contains provisions relating to the discharge'
of insolvent debtors.. By this appeal we are called on to
decidewhether as construed below the provim.ons of that
chapter which relate to voluntary assignments for the benefit of creditors, and especially a clause contained in
§ 128.06, conflict with the National Bankruptcy Act. The
clause, declares: "No creditor shall, in any case where a
debtor has made or attempted to make an assignment for
the benefit of creditors, or in case of the insolvency of any
debtor, by attachment, garnishment or otherwise, obtain
priority over other creditors upon such assignment being.

522.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

for any reason adjudged void, or in consequence of any
sale, lien or security being adjudged void ".*
*

Section -128.06 follov's.

"All voluntary assignments or transfers whatever ...

for the

benefit .of or in trust for creditors shall be void- as against the
creditors of'the person making the same unless the assignee shall be
a resident of this state and shall, before taking poksession of the
property assigned and before taking upon himself any trust conferred
upon him by the instrument of assignment, deliver to the county
judge or court. commissioner of the county in which such assignor or
some one of the assignors at the time of the execution of such assignment shall reside .. .a bond . . .in a sum not less than thepresent- value of the assets of such assignor, .. . with two or more
sufficient surties ... .; and the bond shall be conditioned that such
assignee shall faithfully discharge the several trusts reposed in him by
such assignment and diligently, and faithfully collect and reduce to
money the property assigned to him and account for and pay over
to the several parties, then'being creditors of the assignor, all moneys
that shall come into his handi from the effects of such assignor after
deducting the necessary eipenses of performing the several trusts
mentioned in the assignment, as settled and allowed by the circuit
court, and abide the order of said court. But 'no assignment shall
be void because of any defect, informality or mistake therein or in
the bond, inventory or list of creditors accompanying the s&e;
and the court or judge may direct the amendment of the- assignmeAt
or of any other such paper to effect the intention of the assignor or
assignee, and any- such amendment shall relate back to the time of
the execution of the paper to which it is made. No mistake in filing
a copy instead of an original or any like mistake or inadvertent
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall avoid the
assignment. No creditor shall, in any case where a debtor has made
or attempted to make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or
in case of the insolvency of any debtor, by attachment, garnishment
or otherwise, obtain priority over other creditors upon such assignment being for any reasowladjudged void, or in consequence of any
sale, lien or security being adjudged void; but in all such cases the
property of such insolvent debtor shall be administered for the ratable
benefit of all his creditors under the direction of the court by the
assignee or by any receiver of said property'and estate appointed as
hereinafter provided,"

POBRESLO v.'BOYD CO.
518

Opinion of the Court.

The Boyd Company, a Wisconsin corporation, March
23, 1931, made a voluntary assignment of all its property
to 'assignees for the benefit of its -creditors. IThey immediately took possession, and the circuit court of Dane
county on the same day assumed jurisdiction declaring
in its order that it did so pursuant to c.' 128. Appellant,
a non-assenting creditor, brought suit against the assignor
and prayed judgment for more than $2,506. September 1,
1931, she instituted garnishment proceedings against the
assignees, asserting that the assignment was void because
of failure to comply with c. 128 in several particulars
and because that chapter was repugnant to the Bankruptcy Act. Thereafter the assignor amended the assignment to authorize. the judge of the circuit -court, in case
of resignation of the assignees, to appoint a trustee. The
assignees resigned, and the court appointed appellee Samp
as sole trustee. He answered the garnishment and admitted that he had the property conveyed by the assignment but denied that he.had possession or control of any
property in which the assignor had an interest. Appellant, having recovered judgment against ihe assignor for
$2,645, moved for judgment against the garnishees. The
court found that the assignees had received property
belonging to the assignor in excess of appellant's judgment and had transferred the same to the trustee, and
ordered that it be applied to satisfy the judgment. The
supreme court reversed and directed that the garnishee
action be dismissed. 210 Wis. 20; 242 N. W. 725.
In view of the construction theretofore put upon -c. 128
by the state. supreme court, it is evident that the assignment did not -have the effect of instituting proceedings
contemplating discharge of assignor from its debts.
In Voluntary Assignment of Tarnowsci .(1926), 191
Wis. 279; 210 N. W. 836, the -supreme court declared
that, as to all matters comprehended within 'the Bank-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

ruptcy Act, the state. insolvency laws had been by it campletely superseded and said (p. 283): "The statutes of
this state relating to the subject of bankruptcy are suspended during the existence of the federal Bankruptcy
Act, and . . . such statutes afford the courts of this state
no power or authority to. discharge debtors from their
debts." In Hazelwood v. Olinger Building Department
Stores (1931), 205 Wis. 85; 236 N. W. 591, the court
pointed out that the Wisconsin statute under consideration is essentially different from the Arkansas statute before us in InternationalShoe Co. v. Pinkus, 278 U. S. 261,
and, speaking through Chief Justice Rosenberry, said (p.
88): "In the matter of Voluntary Assignment of Tarnowski . .. it was held that the right to make a voluntary
assignment:for the benefit of creditors is a personal right
inherent in the ownership of property, and existed at common law independent of the statute; that, while the' discharge of a bankrupt from his debts constitutes the very
essence of the Bankruptcy Law, the discharge of a debtor
is no part of an assignment law; that part of the chapter
relating to discharge is entirely superseded by the federal
act, and has, under present conditions, no efficacy; and,
further, that a creditor filing his claim and accepting his
pro rata share of the proceeds under a voluntary assignment does not waive his right to- object, to the debtor's
discharge. As a condition of filing a claim under the
Arkansas statute, the creditor was required to agree that
payment of a pro rata share of the assets of 'the insolvent's 6state should discharge his claim. It is hardly..
necessary to point out the wide difference between the
statute of Arkansas and that of Wisconsin as construed
by this court." In the case at bar the court again declared
that the provisions in c. 128 that apply to such voluntary
assignments are severable from those that relate to the dis-.
charge of insolvent debtors. It reiterated that the federal

POBRESLO v. BOYD CO.
518

Opinion of the Court.

Act superseded the latter. And it held that, as there was
an attempt to make an assignment for the beneift of cred*itors,the quoted clause of § 128.06 prevented garnishment,
even though the assignees had failed to follow some of the
procedural details prescribed by'c. 128.
There is slight need to refer
more specifically to the differences between this case and Inter-nationalShoe Co. v.
Pinkus, supra. There the proceedings in he chancery
court were under the state insolvency law ,(Crawford &
Moses' Dig., §§ 5885-5893) and not under thelaw governing voluntary assignments for the benefit of-creditors.
Id., §§ 486-493. Upon .the entry of the shoe company's
jddgment against him, Pinkus sought discharge fiom -his
debts under the insolvency law and to that end procured
the entry of a decree under which his creditors were prohibited from having any payment out of his property except upon stipulation for his full release. As shown by
our decision in that case, the Arkansas insolvency law not
only related to the subject of bankruptcies but actually
dealt with essential features of that subject which are
covered by the Act now in force, *It not only governed
discharge of the baikrupt debtor but imposed conditions
which trammeled and made against equial distribution of
his property.
In the case now before us the WisconSin statutory provisions relating to discharge of insolvent debtors were
not invoked. There is nothing in the assignment, the
application to the circuit court to take jurisdiction, or its
order thereon, to suggest that the discharge of the dssignor
was contemplated. The provisions regulating the administration of trusts created by voluntary assignments for
the benefit of creditors apply whether the assignor is solvent or insolvent. They do not prevent creditors from
bringing action against the debtor or require those seeking to participate in the distribution of the estate to stipu-

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

late for his discharge. And, quite in harmony with thepurposes of the federal Act, the provisions of c. 128 that
are regulatory of such voluntary asignments serve to protect creditors against each other and go to a~sure equality
of distribution unaffected by any requirement 6r condition
in respect of discharge.
A -proceeding under the Arkansas law derives its force
solely from legislation that involves a judicial winding up
of an insolvent estate and the discharge of the debtor.
Such a raw is within the field of the federal Act. Indeed,
the declaration: "Proceedings commenced under State insolvency laws before the passage of this Act shall not be
affected by it" (30 Stat. 666) suggests that Congress intended to supersede these local enactments. See In re
Sievers, 91 Fed. 366. Star v. Johnson (Tex. Civ. App.),
44 S. W. (2d) 429. On the other hand the Wisconsin law
merely governs the administration of trusts created by
deeds like that in question, which do not differ substantially from those arising under common law assignments
for the benefit of creditors. The substantive rights under
such assignments depend upon contract; the- legislation
merely governs the execution of the trusts on which the
property is conveyed. :And as proceedings under any such
assignment may be terminated upon petition of creditors
filed within the time and in the manner prescribed by the
federal Act (West Company v. Lea, 174 U. S. 590), it is
apparent that Congress intended that such voluntary assigrments, unless so put aside, should be regarded as not
inconsistent with the purposes of the federal Act. Mayer.
v. Hellman, 91 U. S. 496, 501. Boese v. King, 108 U. S.
379, 385-387. Stellwagen .v. Ctum, 245 U. S. 605, 615.
Straton v. New, 283 U. S. 318, 327. It follows that the
above quoted provision of § 128.06 is valid and effectifre
to prevent garnishment of funds in the- hands of the
trustee.
Judgment affirmed.

