GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. BLODGETT.
502

509

Syllabus.

It follows that the statutory presumption as construed
by the court below is free from constitutional infirmity
under the due process clause.
The objection that because the presumption applies only
to railway c6mpanies, its effect is to deprive appellants
of the equal protection of the laws is clearly untenable.
Atlantic Coast Line v. Georgia,234 U. S. 280, 289; Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co. v. Anderson, 233 U. S. 325, 330;
Seaboard Air Line v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73' 76; Mobile,
J. & K. C. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, supra; Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205, 209. There is even less
ground for the final contention that the statutory presumption under consideration violates the interstatE commerce clause of the federal Constitution. Upon that
point we are satisfied with what was said by the court
below upon the authority, among other cases, of Atlantic
Coast Line v. Georgia, supra, at p. 290, and Southern Ry.
Co. v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 531-533.
Judgment affirmed.
GUARANTY TRUST CO., EXECUTOR, v. BLODGETT, TAX COMMISSIONER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPERIOR COURT OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY,
CONNECTICUT.

No. 217. Argued December'15, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.
1. Where it is claimed that a state statute imposing a tax has been
applied by the state supreme court to an earlier contract in violation of the contract impairment clause of the Constitution, the
opinion of th.at court definitely sustaining the tax on another statute
antedating the contract must be accepted, in the absence of convincing reasons to the contrary. P. 512.
2. The contract clause not being involved, a construction placed upon
a state statute by the state.supreme court binds this Court as fully
as if expressed in the statute itself in specific words. P. 513.

OCTOBER TERM; 1932.
Argument for Appellant.

287 U.S.

3. Where property is conveyed irrevocably in trust to pay the income to the grantor during life and thereafter to another beneficiary, the shifting of possession or enjoyment on the grantor's death
is an event "generated" by the death upon which the State constitutionally may impose a succession tax.' P. 513.
114 Conn. 207; 158 AtI. 245, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment.entered in the Superior Court
of Connecticut on advice sent down from the Supreme
Court of Errors in response to questions of law reserved
for its decision. The case first came into the Superior
Court by appeal of the Tax Commissioner from a decree of
the Probate Court for the District of Greenwich holding
the succession in question non-taxable.
Mr. Gregory Hankin for appellant.
The trust deed was a contract which vested the grantor
and the beneficiaries with definite rights as of the date of
the transfer.
In previous cases this Court has held that an irrevocable trust operated to fix the rights to the property as
of the time of the transfer, not as of the time of the decedent's death,-this irrespective of whether the tax was imposed on the right to transmit or on the right to receive.
While the court below expressly held that the tax was
governed by the statute in force at the time of the transfer,. it actually gave effect to a statute enacted after the
transfer.
This Court will give independent consideration to the
question whether there was a contract, what wag its nature and effect and whether any obligations thereunder
have been impaired.
The imposition of the tax had to proceed on the as-

sumption that the property which had already been transferred inter vives, four years before death, continued to
remain in the decedent until her death, thus impairing

the rights and obligations under the contract.

GUARANTY TRUST, CO. v. BLODGETT.
509

511

Opinion of the Court.

Even if the court below gave effect fo the 1923 statute,
the tax was without' due process. Property transferred
during lifetime through an irrevocabl6 trust is not subject
to death duties, unless made in contemplation of death.
This transfer, it is stipulated, was not made in contemplation 6f death.
The tax is not sustainable as a'property tax, because
the property was without the taxing jurisdiction of the
State of Connecticut; nor as a gift tax, because the basis
was lae value of the property at the decedent's death,
not as of the time when the gift was made.
The tax as applied violated the equal protection clause.
Mr. Farwell Knapp, Assistant. Tax Commissioner, with
whom Mr. Ernest L. Averill was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JusTIcE SuI-HERLAwD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Connecticut succession tax act of 1923 contains the
following provision:
"All property and any interest therein owned by a-resident of- this state'at the time of 'his deceae, . . . which
shall pass by will or inheritance under the laws of this
state; and all gifts of such property by deed, grant or
other conveyance, made in contemplation of the death of
the grantor or donor, or intended to take effect in possessionlor enjoyment at or after the death of such grantor or
donor, shall be subject to the tax herein prescribed."
Chap. 190, Pub. Acts, 1923, § 1.
On December 28, 1926, while this act was in force, Harriet D. Sewell executed an irrevocable deed of trust to
appellant, transferring certain securities, by which deed
it was provided that the trustee collect the income and
pay it to Mrs. Sewell during her life. Thereafter, the
income was to be paid to her husband for his life, and upon
his death the trustee was directed to pay and transfer the

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

principal of the trust absolutely to their daughter if she
survived, but if not, then to the issue of the daughter,
with a gift over in default of such issue. Mrs. Sewell died
May 20, 1930, domiciled in Connecticut.
The state supreme court held that the statute recognized the distinction between taking effect in possession
or enjoyment and vesting in, right, title or interest, and
intended to reach a shifting of the enjoyment of property
although such shifting followed necessarily from a prior
transfer of title inter vivos; that within the meaning aiid
description of the statute, the transfer in question was a
gift intended totake effect in possession or enjoyment at
or after the death of the donor, and, therefore, was subject to the succession tax; and that the imposition of such
tax did not offend against the Fourteenth Amendment or
any other provision of the federal Constitution. 114
Conn. 207; .158-Atl. 245.
Appellant first contendg that while the court below expressly upheld the tax under the act of 1923, it nevertheless gave effect to the later and more specific act of 1929
(Pub. Acts, c. 299, §§ 1 and 2), and thereby the contract
impaii'ment clause of the federal Constitution was infringed. This contention must be rejected. We are not at
liberty to disregard the explicit holding of the state court
as to the basis of its decision, except for convincing reasons, which here we are unable to find. Compare Columbia Ry. v. South Carolina,261 U. S. 236, 245-247. The
entire effort of the court upon this point plainly was directed towards sustaining the view that the event sought
to be taxed fell within the provisions of the act of 1923.
There is a reference to the act of 1929, but the decision is
definitely put upon the act of -1923, and is supported by
considerations of such weight as to leave no occasion for
dependence upon the later act; and the supposition that
in fact effect was given to it is without warrant.

AMERICAN SURETY CO. v. MAROTTA.
509

513

Syllabus.

Si ce the court below" construed the act of 1923, with-.
out regard to the act of 1929, as embracing the event
sought to be taxed, and since in that view the question of
contract impairment does not arise, we are bound by the
decision of that court as though the meaning as fixed by
the c6urt had been expressed in the statute itself in 'specific words. Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Sunburst Ol &
Refining Co., dnte, p. 358; Knights of Pythias v. Meyer,
265 U. S. 30, 32.
In that view the tax was imposed upon an event generated by the death .of the decedent. That such a tax
.does not conflict with any provision of the federal Constitution-is clearly stated by this court in Coolidge v. Long,
282 U .-S. 582, 596. There a similar tax was held bad
because the state statute imposing it was passed after
the creation of the trusts; but the court said: "Undoubtedly the State has power to lay such an excise upon property so passing after the taking effect of*the taxing Act."
While, strictly, that statement was not necessary to the
decision, we follow it as expressing the settled conviction
of this court, and, "so far as the- federal Constitutibn is
concerhed, sustain the validity of the act o* 1923 as construed by the state court.
Judgment affirmed.
AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY OF NEW YORK
v. MAROTTA.
CERTIOIRI TO TH

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

'No. 131. 'Argued Dpcember 8, 1932.--Decided January 9, 1933.
1. In § 1 (9) of the Bankruptcy Act, which declares that "creditor"
shall "include" anyone owning a 'clainprovable in, bankruptcy,
"include" is a word of extension or enlargement, not of.limitation.
P. 516.

