630A

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for Parties.

287 U.S.

the court rested its decision. The court revoked the probation upon defendant's admissions of his dereliction and
it does not appear that there was an abuse of discretion.
Judgment affirmed.
GWINN v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 31.

Argued November 9, 10, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

1. The provision of the Revenue Act of 1924 for- including the
interest of a joint .tenant of property in computing transfer
taxes on his estate, is applicable to tenancies created before September 8, 1916, when .the first of the recent federal statutes providing for such taxation became effective. P. 226.
2. A state rule that the accrual of property resulting to one of
two joint tenants from the death of the other is not to be taxed
if not taxable under statutes in force when the tenancy was crez.
ated, could not limit the power of Congress in respect of federal
taxation. P. 227.
3.. Where by the state law (as in California) the rights of the
future survivor .of two joint tenants are not irrevocably fixed
at the creation. of the tenancy, but the joint estate may be
terminated ^by the voluntary conveyance of either tenant, or by
partition, or involuntary alienation under execution, a co-tenant's
death, by ending the right to effect such. changes, presents a
proper 'occasion for imposing a federal transfer tax under the
Act of 1924, p ssed before -the death, though after the creation
of the tenancy. Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S. 497. P. .228.
54 F. (2d) 728, affirmed.
CERTmoRARI, 286 U. S. 537, to review the affirmance of an
order- of the Board of Tax Appeals, 20 B. T. A. 1052,
which had sustained an appraisal of a decedent's estate
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.

Messrs. Thomas A. Thacher, Llewellyn A. Luce, and
Ralph W. Smith submitted for petitioner.

GWINN v. COMMISSIONER.
224

Opinion of the Court.

Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Sewall Key and
Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
June -, 1915, J. H. Gwinn, the petitioner here, and his
mother, Mrs. M. A. Gwinn, residents of California, acquired by equal contributions certain property, as joint
tehants with the right of survivorship, which they continued to hold until her death, October 5, 1924. He is the
beneficiary of the estate and in possession of its assets.
The Revenue Act approved June 2, 1924, c. 234, 43
Stat. 253, 304 (U. S. C., Title 26,. § 1094) provides"SEc. 302. The value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be determined by including the value at the
time of his death of all property, real or personal, tangible
or intangible, wherever situated- . . .
(e) To the extent of the interest therein held as joint
tenants by the decedent and any other person, or as tenants by the entirety by the decedent and spouse, or deposited, with any person carrying on the banking business,
in their joint names and payable to either or the survivor,
except such part thereof as may be shown to have
originally belonged to such other person and never to have
been .received or acquired by the latter from the decedent
for less than a fair consideration in money or money's
worth:

...

(h) Subdivisions (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this
section shall apply to the transfers, trusts, estates, interests, rights, powers, and relinquishment of powers, as
severally enumerated and described therein, whether
made, created, arising, existing, exercised, or relinquished
before or after -the enactment of this Act."
When he appraised the gross estate of Mrs. Gwinn for
taxation under the Act of 1924, the Commissioner of In-

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

ternal Revenue included the value of one-half the property which she and her son had acquired as stated. This
was challenged as error. The Board of Tax Appeals upheld the Commissioner and the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed its order.
The petitioner maintainsThat the word "before", in Subdivision (h), § 302,"
supra, should be construed as referring only to the period
between Ju ne 2, 1924, and September 8, 1916, when the
first of recent Federal estate tax statutes (39 Stat. 777)
became effective.
That under the tenancy created in June, 1915, each
party acqluired immediate joint ownership in the whole
property; that his interest therein then became completely vested and no .change in title or transfer of interest
occurred by*reason of the co-tenant's death. No interest
ceased or passed at the death. The Commissioner is attempting, arbitrarily, capriciously and in violation of the
due process clause of the Fifth Amendment, to tax something created, transferred and vested in the survivor prior
to the first (1916) federal estate tax law.
The. clear language of the1924 statute repels the notion
that it has no application to joint tenancies created prior
to September 8, 1916. Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S.531.
The contrary view is not aided (as claimed) by Phillipsv.
Dime Trust & Safe Deposit Co., 284 U. S.160.
The Estate .of Gurnsey (1918), 177 Cal. 211; 170 Pac.
402, is relied upon to support the postulate that unider
the laws of California no novel tax can be laid on account.
of rights accruing to the survivor by an enactment subsequent to the creation of the joint tenancy. There the
deatlh occurred February 9,- 1915. Claiming authority
under the Act of 1913, the State Controller sought'to collect an inheritance tax upon a bank deposit credited to the
joint account of the decedent and another in April, 1911.
The court declared the transfer to the joint account was

GWINN v. COMMISSIONER.
224

227

Opinion of the Court.

complete and the title to the fund became vested in the
joint tenants when the deposit was made.. Also, "the rule
on the subject is that the question of liability to inheritance taxes must be determined by the law in force at the
time Jhe title vests in virtue of the transfer." And, the
conclusion was that the law in force in 1911 " did not
undertake to impose a tax upon the rights accruing to a
surviving joint tenant upon the death of his co-tenant."
The clIgm of the State Controller was accordingly rejected
and the fund declared not liable to taxation under the Act
of 1913.
This opinion recognizes that some rights accrue "to a
surviving joit tenant upon the death of his co-tenant,"
and the possibility of taxation by reason of this fact.
But it apparently affirms that under the rule approved in
California liability for such taxation must be determined
according to law- in force when the co-tenancy is
established.
To support its affirmation concerning this rule the
court cited only Hunt v. Wicht, 174 Cal. 205; 162 Pac.
639. That cause grew out of an effort, after the grantor's
death in 1913, to impose a tax under the statute of 1911
on account of the absolute transfer madd in 1905 of a
present title to real property subject only to a life estate.
The ruling was that a tax based on that transaction could
not be laid by an after-enacted statute. There was no
suggestion that the doctrine there accepted could have
application if the imposition had relation only to circumstances which would arise in the future. *But in no view
could the supposed rule limit the power of Congress in
respect of federal taxation.
In Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S. 497, 503, 504, where
the question at issue was similar to the one now presented,
this Court declared"The question here, then, is, not whether there has
been, in' the strict sense of that word, a 'transfer ' of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

property by the death of the decedent, or a receipt of it
by right of succession, but whether the death has brought
into being or ripened for the survivor, property rights of
such character as to make appropriate the imposition of a
tax upon that result (which Congress may call a transfer
tax, a death duty or anything else it sees fit), to be measured, in whole or in part, by the value of such rights. ....
"At his [the co-tenant's] death, however, and because
of it, she [the survivor] for the first time, became entitled
to exclusive possession, use and enjoyment; she ceased to
hold the property subject to qualifications imposed by
the law relating to tenancy by the entirety, and became
entitled to hold and enjoy it absolutely as her own; and'
then, and then only, she acquired the power, not theretofore possessed, of disposing of the property by an exercise
of her sole will. Thus the death of one of the parties to
the tenancy became the 'generating source' of important
and definite accessions to the property rights of the other.
These circumstances, together with the fact, the existence
of which the statute requires, that no part of the property
originally had belonged to the wife, are sufficient, in our
opinion, to make valid the inclusion of the property in
the gross estate which forms the primary base for the.
measurement of the tax."
Although the property here involved was held under a
joint tenancy with the right of survivorship created by
the 1915 transfer, the rights of the possible survivor were.
not then irrevocably fixed, since under the state laws the
joint estate might have been terminated through volun-.
tary conveyance by either party, through proceedings for
partition, by an involuntary alienation under an execution. Calif. Code Civ. Procedure, § 752; Green v. Skinner, 185 Cal. 435; 197 Pac. 60; Hilborn v. Soale, 44 Cal.
App. 115; 185 Pac. 982. The right to effect these changes
in the estate was not terminated until the co-tenant's
death. Cessation of this power after enactment of the

ALTON R. CO. yv. UNITED STATES.
224

229

Syllabus.

Revenue Act of 1924 presented proper.'occasion for imposition of the tax. The death became the generating

source of -definite accessions to the survivor's property
rights. Tyler v. United States, supra. See Saltonstafl v.
Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260; Chase NatiopalBank v. United
States, 278 U. S. 327; Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co.,
278 U. S. 339.
Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531; Untermyerv. Anderson, 276 U. S.440, and Coolidge v. Long, 282 U. S. 582,
are inapplicable. In them the rights of the survivors became finally and definitely fixed before the passage of the
act-nothing was added as the result of death.
The judgment below must be
__
__-_

_

Affirmed.

ALTON RAILROAD CO. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERNQ DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 81.

Argued October 10, 11, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

1. Where one of 'several carriers which, by their agreement, have
established joint rates and fixed the divisions, is ilegally deprived
of part or all of its agreed share through the action of the other
carriers in dividing the freight collections on anotther basis, the
aggrieved carrier is entitled to apply under § 15 (6) of the Interstate Commerce Act for an order that the agreed divisions be
maintained; and the Commission can not refuse to entertain the
complaint. P. 236.
2. An order of the Commission denying felief under such an appli-.
cation, upon a finding that the reduced divisions complained of
are not "unjust, unreasonable, or otherwise unlawful," is in effect
an order reducing the divisions to which the complaining carrier
was entitled under the agreement; it is a "negative" order in form
only. P. 237.
3. The Conmission, in concluding that the shar6 received by the
complaining carrier was not unjust, unreasonable, or' otherwise
unlawful, construed the words of § 15 (6), "importance to the
public of the services of such carriers," as referring to the im-

