SUN OIL CO. v. DALZELL TOWING CO.
283

291

Syllabus.

U. S. 402. The State, in, order to ameliorate the evils
found incident to waivers of implied warranties of fitness,
merely declares that such agreements in respect of the
sale of the designated machines are contrary to public
policy and holds the parties to the just and reasonable
rule prescribed by § 15 (1) of the Sales Act. Upon the
question of due process more need not be said.
The character of the'machines, the need of tests to
determine their fitness, the serious losses that ensue if in
actual use they prove unfit, and the other considerations
alluded to plainly warrant the classification and special
regulation of.sales prescribed by the statute.
We find no*substantial support for the contention that
the statute complained of violates the due process or equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Frisbie
v. United States; 157 U. S. 160, 165. Orient Insurance
Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557, 563, et seq. Patterson v.
Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169, 173. Whitfield v. Aetna
Ins. Co., 205 U. S. 489, 495. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v,
"McGuire,-219 U. S. 549, 564, et seq. National Union
Ins. Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U..S. 71.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SToNE and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO concur

in the result.
SUN OIL CO. v. DALZELL TOWING CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT. OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 38.

Argued November 16, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

1. A towage company, in performing a contract to assist a vessel
propelled by her own power and manned by her officers and crew,
is neither commaon carrier nor bailee, and is not subject to the rule
that prevents common carriers, and others under like duty to
serve the public, from escaping by agreement liability for damage
caused by their negligence. P. 294.

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

2. In a contract merely to furnish tugs to assist a vessel while using
her own propelling power, it may validly be stipulated that the

tug captains, when they board the vessel, shall become the servants
of her owners, so that for damage resulting from their orders in
piloting the vessel the owners of the tug's shall not be liable.
P. 294.
55 F. (2d) 63, affirmed.'

CERTIoRARi, 286 U. S. 538; to review a decree affirming
a -decree dismissing a libel in a suit in admiralty. For
opinion of the District Court, see 48 F. (2.d) 598.
.Mr.Frank A. Bull, with whom Messrs. 0. D. Duncan
and Russell T. Mount were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Qhauncey L* Clark for respondent.
MR. JUSTIcE BuTm delivered the opinion of the Court.
This-is a suit in admiralty brought by petitioner in the
southern district "of New York against .respondent and
three steam 4ugs, Daizellite, W. F. Dalzell, and Fred- B.
Dalzell, Jr, to-, recover damages alleged to have been
caused 'by their negligence to petitioner's tank steamer
Sabine 'Sun. The court dismissed the libel. 48 F. (2d)
598. Petitioner appealed from so much of the decree as
dismissed the libel as to the towing company. The Circuit Court of Appeals'affirmed. 55 F. (2d) 63.
Respondeift operates steam tugboats in and about New
York harbor., May 14, 1925, in anticipation of the arrival of the Sabine Sun, Turnbull, petitioner's assistant
marine superintendent, arranged by telephone to have
respondent send tugs to take her through waters leading
to' Newark Bay and to a dock at Bergen Point, New
Jersey. There was no writing or formal contract concerning the service to be rendered. The agreement pieced
out from the oral order -and acceptance and prior like
transactions between the parties included as one of its
terms the following clause: "When 'he captain of any
-

SUN OIL CO. v. DALZELL TOWING CO.
291

Opinion of the Court.

tug engaged in the services of towing a vessel which is
making use of her own propelling power goes on board
said vessel, it is understood and agreed that said tugboat
captain becomes the servant of the owners in respect to
the giving of orders to any of the tugs engaged in the
towage service and in respect to the handling of such
vessel, and neither the tugs nor their owners or agents
shall be liable for any damage resulting therefrom."
On the next day the tanker anchored off Stapleton,
Staten Island. The W. F. Dalzell came alongside and
Bennett, her captain, went on board and acted as pilot.
Using her own power and accompanied by the tug she got
under way. The Dalzellite joined them off St. George and
thence the three vessels went on through the Kill van
Kull. Off Port Richmond the Fred B. Dalzell, Jr. became
part of the flotilla.. Fort, her captain, then went upon
the "tanker and acted as pilot, relieving Bennett. The
tanker's captain, his third officer, a quartermaster and
Turnbull were also there. She .continued on her waq
using her own propelling power and assisted by the tugs.
When rounding Bergen Point she went aground outside
the channel, and it was then, as alleged in"the libel, that
she sustained the damages for which petitioner seeks to
recover. She was backed off the obstruction, turned into
the channel and without other mishap taken to the dock.
In" view of petitioner's failure to appeal from the
dismissal as to the tugs, we must assume that as to them
petitioner failed to make out its case and that the stranding of the tanker was not in whole or in part due to any
fault of theirs. It was not shown that respondent was
to have or at any time did have' control of the tanker or
that it agreed or undertook to do more than to furnish tugs
to assist her while using her own propelling power. Her
master, officers and crew wdredt their stations,; and her
propelling power and steering apparatus were used to
bring her to destination. And if the pilotage clause is

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

valid, the tug captains while on board the tanker and respectively acting as her pilot were for that turn the servants of petitioner and the respondent may not be held
responsible for any act or omission of theirs during the
period of that service.
•The validity of its applicable provision cannot reasonably be doubted. So far as concerns the service to be
rendered under the agreement, respondent was not a common carrier or bailee or bound to serve or liable as such.
Towage does not involve bailment, and the services covered by the contract were less than towage. Stevens v.
The White City, 285 U. S. 195, 200. There is no foundation in this case for the application of the doctrine that
common carriers and others under like duty to serve the
public according to their capacity and the terms of their
undertaking cannot by any form of agreement secure exemption from liability for loss or damage caused by-heir
owh negligence. RailroadCo. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357.
Liverpool & G. W. Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S.
397, 440. Respondent had no exclusive privilege or monopoly in respect of the services that petitioner desired to
have performed for its tanker. And petitioner was under
no compulsion to accept the terms of respondent's pilotage
clause. There is nothing to suggest that the parties were
not on equal footing or that they did not deal at arm's
length. "There is no rule of public policy which denies
effect to their expressed intention, but on the contrary, as
the matter lies within the range of permissible agreement,
the highest public policy is found in the enforcement of
the contract which was actually made." Santa Fe, P. &
P. Ry. Co. v. GrantBros. Co., 228 U. S.177, 188.
Respondent's responsibility is not to be extended beyond the service that it undertook to perform. It did not
furnish pilotage. The provision that its tug captains
while upon the assisted ship would be the servants of her
I

DETROIT BRIDGE CO. v. TAX BOARD
291

295

Syllabus.

owner is an application of the well-established rule that
when one puts his employee at the disposal and under the
*direction of another for the performance of service for the
latter, such employee while so engaged acts directly for
and is to be deemed the employee of the latter and not of
the former. Denton v. Yazoo & M. V. R. Co., 284 U. S.,
305, 308. It would be unconscionable for petitioner upon
occurrence of a mishap to repudiate the agreement upon
which it obtained the service.
The decree under consideration is not in conflict with
the decisions of this court cited by petitioner, The Steamer
Syracuse, 12 Wall. 167, and Compaida de Navegacio v.
Ins. Co., 277 U. S. 66. Neither involved an agreemeht
similar to the provisions of the pilotage clause on which
this case turns.
Decree affirmed.
DETROIT INTERNATIONAL BRIDGE CO. v. CORPORATION TAX APPEAL BOARD OF MICHIGAN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN'.

No. 51. Argued November 11, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.
1. One who challenges the constitutionality of a statute has the
'burden of establishing the facts on which he asserts its invalidity.
P. 297.
2. The question whether the operation bf a toll bridge between a
State of this country and Canada is foreign commerce, so that a
corporation engaged therein may not be subjected to a state excise
on the right to do business, will not be considered where the corporation failed to establish that it has no power to carry on
business that is not within the protection of the commerce clause.
P. 297.
257 Mich. 52; 240 N. W. 68, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment sustaining a determination of

a corporation privilege tax.

