OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY
CO. v. WATSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.

No. 4. Argued October 14, 1932.-Decided November 7, 1932.
1. A. Florida statute provides that railroad companies shall b.e liable
for damages done to persons or property by the running of their
locomotives, unless they make it appear that their agents exercised
all ordinary and reasonable care and diligence, fhe presumption in
all cases being against the company. Held:
(1) The fact that a like rule is not applied against carriers by
motor and- other litigants does not render the statute unduly discriminatory against railroads in violation of the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 90.
(2) The objection that it violates the due process clause of theAmendment, cf. Western & Atlantic R. Co. v. Henderson, 279 U. S.
639, was not properly presented in this case. P. 91.
2. The court may, and generally will, disregard a specification that
is so uncertain or otherwise deficient as not substantially to comply
with the rule respecting assignments of errors, even if the opposing
party raises no question as to the sufficiency of the specification and
treats it as adequate. Id.
3. An appeal from a state court on which no federal question is
presented, will be dismissed. P. 92.
103 Fla. 477; 137 So. 719, appeal dismissed.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining in part a recovery
from the railroad company for damages suffered by the
plaintiff in a grade-crossing accident.
Mr. W. J. Oven for appellant.
Mr. John E. Mathews for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellant seeks reversal of a judgment obtained by
appellee upon the ground that § 7051 of the Compiled
General Laws, 1927, as construed below is repugnant to
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Four-

teenth Amendment.

§ 237, Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.,

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. WATSON.
86

Opinion of the Court.

§ 344. Section 7051 declares: "A railroad company shall
be liable for any damage done to persons, stock or other
property, by the running of the locomotives, or cars, orother machinery of such company, or for damage done by
any person in the employ and service of such company,
unless the company shall make it appear that their agents
have exercised all ordinary and reasonable care and diligence, the presumption in all cases being against the
company."
Watson sued the railway company to recover damages
caused by a collision, at a highway grade crossing, between one of defendant's locomotives and plaintiff's mule
team being driven by his employee. The declaration alleged that the collision was caused by the negligence of
defendant in that it operated the train at excessive speed
and failed by whistle or otherwise to give warning. Defendant pleaded not guilty and that the negligence of the
driver was the sole cause of the accident. Plaintiff introduced evidence showing the collision and resulting damage. Defendant called witnesses whose testimony tended
to show that its employees were not negligent and that
th driver's negligence was the sole cause of the accident.
Plintiff produced witnesses in rebuttal who gave evidence
to show that the accident resulted from the negligent
failure of defendant to give proper warning.
In the course of its charge the court instructed the jury:
(1) The plea of not guilty imposeson plaintiff the burden
of proving that the damage was caused by alleged negligence of defendant; (2) "Our statute provides that a
railroad company shall be liable for any damage done to
stock or property of another by the running of locomotives
or cars unless the company shall make it appear that their
agents have exercised all ordinary and reasonable care
and diligence,--the presumption in all cases being against
the company "; (3) If defendant's employees and plaintiff's teamster were at fault the plaintiff may recover the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

amount of his damages reduced in proportion to the
contributory negligence of his servant; (4) If the evidence
establishes that the damage alleged was caused by the
running of the locomotive, plaintiff may recover "unless
the defendant company shall make it appear by a preponderance of the evidence that its employees exercised
all ordinary and reasonable care and diligence in the
premises "; (5) The defendant submitted a request to
charge which was by the court "slightly modified" and
given as follows: "The presumption of negligence cast
upon railroads by our statute in personal injury cases
ceases when the railroad company has, made it appear by
a preponderance of the evidence that its agents have
exercised all ordinary and reasonable care and diligence.
In the presence of such proof by the railroad company the
jury do not take any such presumption with them to the
jury room in weighing the evidence and in coming to a
determination. The statute does not create such a presumption as will outweigh proofs, or that will require
any greater or stronger or more convincing proofs to
remove it." Defendant submitted two requests for in*structions in respect of negligence on the part of the
teamster but the court refused to give them.
The jury gave plaintiff a verdict for the amount of his
damages and the trial court entered judgment thereon.
The supreme court sustained the finding of negligence
on the part of the defendant, but held that the evidence
established contributory negligence and ordered that unless plaintiff enter a remittitur for a specified sum the
judgment should be reversed and a new trial granted.
The plaintiff made the reduction and judgment was
entered for the remainder.
The Florida statute in question is the same as that of
Georgia condemned by .this court as so unreasonable and
arbitrary as to be repugnant to the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. It was not necessary to

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. WATSON.
86

Opinion of the Court.

consider, and we did not decide, whether the statute also
violated the equal protection clause. Western & Atlantic
R. Co. v. Henderson, 279 U. S.639, reversing 167 Ga. 22.
Appellant failed in the trial court to assail the statute
on any ground upon which rests our decision in the Henderson case. In its motion for a new trial and in the
assignment of errors submitted with its proposed bill of
exceptions, it asserted as to each of the instructions
numbered (2), (3) and (4) that the court erred in so
charging "because the effect of said charge was to deprive the defendant of the equal protection of te law,
contrary to the Constitution of the United States." And
it made the same objeotion to another charge which, so
far as concerns questions before us, is not to be distinguished from instruction (4). Appellant has not included
in the record its request which was by the court modified
and given. It does not appear how the instruction differed from the request and, as appellant has not complained of the modification or of the charge as given, the
instruction is to be considered as not differing materially
from the request and to have been acquiesced in and
accepted by appellant. The record on which the case
was taken to the state supreme court discloses no contention on the part of appellant that as construed at the tril
the statute is unreasonable or arbitrary or that it operated
as a denial of due process of law. But the opinion of that
court states-whether inadvertently we need not consider-that some assignments of error question the constitutionality of the section as denying the defendant
"due process of law" and the equal protection of the
laws. After reference to our decision in the Henderson
case and to Mobile, J.& K. C. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, 219
U. S. 35, the court said: "All that the statute does in
this state in creating a presumption is thereby to cast
upon the railroad company the burden of affirmatively
showing that its agents exercised all ordinary and reason-

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1932."
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

able care and diligence, and here the statutory presumption ends," held that the trial court "properly instructed
the jury in regard to the presumption in -this case" and
overruled appellant's contention that the statute is unconstitutional because it does not apply to buses as well
as to railroads.
The errors assigned and urged here amount to no more
than that as construed the section operated to deny appellant equal protection because it required appellant to
carry throughout the trial a burden not put, upon motor
carriers for hire or other litigants, and that the refusal of
the trial court to give to the jury the requested instructions in respect of negligence on the part of the teamster
deprived appellant of the equal protection of the laws.
In view of numerous decisions of this court sustaining
legislative classifications for various purposes and declaring the principles upon which their constitutional validity depends, it does not require any discussion to show
that the mere discrimination resulting from the application of the presumption created by § 7051 to appellant and
other railroad companies and the failure of the State
to prescribe the same or a like rule in similar actions
against carriers by motor for hire or other litigants does not
violate the equal protection clause of the Foui'teenth
Amendment. Appellant's contention to the contrary is
without substance. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Humes,
115 U. S.512, 522. Missouri Pacific Ry.Co. v. Mackey,
127 U. S.205, 209. Chicago, K. & W. R. Co.v. Pontius,
157 U. S. 209, 210. St. Louis & San FranciscoRy. Ca.. v.
Mathews, 165 U. S.1, 24 et seq. Gulf, Colorado & Santa
Fe Ry. Co.. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.150, 157 et seq. Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S.96.
Mobile, J. & K. C. R. R. v. Turnipseed, supra, 41-42.
Truax v. Corrigan,257 U.S.312, 337.
The assignments of error accompanying this appeal
contain a single reference to due process. It is in a speci-

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. WATSON.
86

Opinion of the Court.

fication which merely asserts that the state supreme court
"erred in holding that the scope and effect of Section
7051 . ; . did not in the trial of this case in the Court
below deprive the... Railway Company... of its
property without due process of law and of the equal protection of the law as guaranteed to it" by § 1 of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
It is essential to a proper presentation of points relied
on for reversal that the statute and rules of court requiring and governing the forms of assignments of errors be
complied with. Every appeal must be accompanied by
an assignment of errors which shall "set out separately
and particularly each error asserted." R. S., § 997,28 U.
S. C., § 862. Rule 9. The purpose is to enable the court
as well as opposing counsel, readily to perceive what
points are relied on. The substitution of vague and general statement for the prescribed particularity sets the
rule at naught. Phillips & Colby 'Construction Co. v.
Seymour, 91 U. S. 646, 648. Briscoe v. District of Columbia, 221 U. S. 547, 549-550. And as the rule makes for
convenience and certainty in the consideration of cases the
court may, and generally it will, disregard a specification
that'is so uncertain or otherwise deficient as not substantially to comply with the rule, even if the opposing party
raises no question and treats it as adequate. The quoted
assignment amounts merely to'a complaint that the supreme court erred in not reversing the judgment of the
trial court because "in the trial of this case" the "scope
and effect" of the section deprived appellant of its property in violation of both the due process and equal protection clauses. An allegation of error could scarcely be
more indefinite. It does not identify any ruling at the
trial or'specify any basis for the assertion of deprivation
of constitutional right. It presents no question for our
consideration.

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

The assignments of error based upon the court's failure
to instruct the jury concerning contributory negligence
of plaintiff's teamster in accordance with defendant's requests present no question for decision here. The record
discloses no foundation for the claim that the refusal so
to charge was, as appellant asserts, "because of the statute." It does not appear that the trial court regarded
the statute as having any relation to the precaution or
care required of plaintiff's driver when approaching the
crossing. The claim that such refusals transgressed the
constitutional rule of equality is utterly without foundation.
No substantial constitutional question being presented,
the appeal will be dismissed. Wabash R. Co. v. Flannigan, 192 U. S. 29. Erie R. v. Solamon, 237 U. S. 427,
431. Sugarman v. United States, 249 U. S. 182. Zucht
v. King, 260 U. S.174. Roe v. Kansas, 278 U. S. 191.
Dismissed.
MR.JUSTICE BRANDEIS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

SCHOENTHAL ET AL. v. IRVING TRUST CO.,
TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 14. Argued October 18, 1932.-Decided November 7, 1932.
1. Section 267 of the Judicial Code, providing that "suits in equity
shall not be sustained in afiy court of the United States in any
case where a plain, adequate, and complete remedy may be had at
law," is declaratory of the rule followed by courts of equity and
should be liberally construed as serving to guard the right of trial
by jury'preserved by the Seventh Amendment. P.-94.
2. The question whether a case should be tried at law or in equity
depends upon the facts stated in the bill. P. 95.

