U. S. v. SHREVEPORT GRAIN & EL. CO.

77

Syllabus.

45

It is a wise rule, firmly etablished by a long course of
decisions here, that constitutional questions-even when
properly raised and argued-are to be decided only when
necessary for a determination of the rights of the parties
in controversy before it. Thus, in the Charles River
Bridge case, 11 Pet. 420, the Court said (p. 553): "Many
other questions, of the deepest importance, have been
raised and elaborately discussed in the argument. It is
not necessary, for the decision of this case, to express our
opinion upon them; and the Court deem it proper to
avoid volunteering an opinion on any question involving
the construction of the constitution where the case itself
does not bring the question directly before them, and
make it their duty .to decide upon it." And see Davidson
v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 103, et seq. Hauenstein v.
Lynham, 100 U. S. 483, 490. Blair v. United States, 250
U. S. 273, 279. Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U. S.
525, 544.
The record wholly fails to reveal that petitioners have
been deprived of any right guaranteed by the Federal
Constitution,. and I am of opinion that the judgment
should be affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE McREYNOLDS concurs in

this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. SHREVEPORT GRAIN &
ELEVATOR CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 19.

Argued October 19, 1932.-Decided November 7, 1932.

1. Section 2 of the Food and Drugs Act punishes shipment in interstate or foreign commerce of any article of food which is misbranded; and § 8 declares that such an article in package form
shall be deemed to be misbranded if the quantity of the contents be
not plainly and conspicuously marked on the outside of the package,

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellee.

287 U.S.

in terms of weight, measure, or numerical count; with the proviso
"That reasonable variations shall be permitted, and tolerances and
also exemptions as to small .packages shall be established by rules
and regulations made in accordance with section three." Section
three provides that executive officers designated shall make uniform
regulations for carrying out the Act. Held that the executive regulations are to fix the variations allowable, as well as tolerances and
exemptions, hence the statute is not open to the constitutional
objection of uncertainty in defining the offense. P. 82.
2. A statute should be construed- where possible so as to avoid doubt
of its validity. Id.
3. In construing a statute, a court will disregard punctuation, or will'
repunctuate, to show the natural meaning of the w6rds. P. 82.
4. Reports of congressional committees, explaining the bill, may be
considered in determining the meaning of a doubtful statute, but
will not be used to support a construction contrary to the plain
import of its terms. P. 83..
5. Practical and long continued construction of a statute by executive
departments charged with its administration and with the duty
of making"-rules and regulations to carry it out, is to be accepted
where the statute is doubtful, unless there are cogent and persuasive
reasons for rejecting it. P. 84.
6: The provision of the Food and Drugs Act, supra, for defining by
executive regulations the reasonable variations that are permisible,
from the quantities marked on packages, is not an unconstitutional
delegation of legislative power. P. 85.
46 F. (2d) 354, reversed.

APPAL from a judgment quashing an indictment.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General St. Lewis, and Messrs. Erwin N. Griswold
and W. Clifton Stone were on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Yandell Boatner, with whom Mr. Judson M. Grimmet .was on the brief, for appellee.
The statute does not validly define a criminal .offense,
and-by reason of its uncertainty is invalid under the Fifth
and Sixth Amendments. Levy Leasing Co.,v. Siegel, 258
U. S. 241; United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S.

U. S. v. SHREVEPORT GRAIN & EL. COM
77

79

Argument for Appellee.

81; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; United States
v. Brewer, 139 U. S. 278; Todd v. United States, 154 U. S.
282; Cline v. Frink Dairy Co., 274 U. S. 445; Connally v.
General Construction Co., 269 U. S. -385; United States
v. Capital Traction Cb., 34 App. D. C. 592; Champlin
Refining Co. v. CorporationCommn., 286 U. S. 210. Cf.
also, Smith v. Cahoon,283 U. S. 553; Small Co. v. American Sugar Refining Co., 267 U.'S. 233; Yu Cong Eng v.
Triniad,.271 U. S. 500.
The cited cases establish that in criminal statutes it is
necessary that the legislature draw a line clearly distinguishing between what is permissible and what is forbidden.
The infirmity of the Act -is not cured by departmental
regulations. United States v. United Verde Copper Co.,
196 U. S. 205; Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466; United
States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677; Williamson v. United
States, 207 U. S. 426; Burnet v. ChicagoPortrait Co., -285
U. S. 1.
These cases disclose that it is within the power of Congress to vest in executive officers the power to make necessary rules and regulations to enforce the provisions of
the law, but that Congress can not delegate its power
to make laws to an executive department or to an administrative officer, nor confer upon any such officer or the
courts the.power to determine what the rule of law shall
be. In fine, Congress must prescribe the rule; details of
execution may be established by regulation. In no event
can the regulations alter, amend, or go beyond the provisions of the Act. Who is to decide in any given case
'whether the regulations exceed proper bounds? If the
Secretaries have determined upon variations which they
consider reasonable, are such determinations conclusive?
Who is to say whether the regulations are not themselves
unreasonable? In the instant case, a trial by jury must
be had and the question decided by the jury. The jury

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

inust determine as a matter of fact whether the variations of weight in the packages shipped are reasonable under the circumstances. The report of the House
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce is in
agreement with these views.
The ultimate determination as to the reasonableness
of the variations in a given case is for the court. Tolerances established by the regulations are advisory merely,
and are in the nature of directions to the executive officers as regards the standards to be observed by them in
initiating prosecutions under the Act.
The Act also is in conflict with Articles I, II, and III
of the Constitution, separating the Government into legislative, executive, and judicial divisions, if its provisions
in § 3 authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of Commerce to
make regulations are to be given the scope and effect now
contended for by the Government.
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The defendant (appellee) was charged by indictment,
returned in the court below, with misbranding certain
sacks, containing corn meal, an article of food, by labeling
each of the sacks as containing a greater quantity by
weight than in fact was contained therein, contrary to
the provisions of the Food and Drugs Act of June 30,
1906, c. 3915, 34 Stat. 768, U. S. C., Title 21, § 2, which
make it unlawful to ship in interstate or foreign commerce any article of food or drugs which is adulterated
or misbranded, within the meaning of the act. The penalty prescribed is a fine of $200 for the first offense, and
for each subsequent offense, not exceeding $300, or imprisonment not exceeding one year, or both, in the discretion of the court. Section 8, as amended by the act

U. S. v. SHREVEPORT GRAIN & EL CO.
77

81

Opinion of the Court.

of March 3, 1913, c. 117, 37 Stat. 732, provides that an
article of food shall be deemed to. be misbranded"Third. If in package form, the quantity of the contents be not plainly and conspicuously marked on the
outside of the package in terms- of weight, measure, or
numerical count: Provided,however, That reasonable variations shall be permitted, and tolerances and also exemptions as to small packages shall be established by
rules and regulations made in accordance with the provisions of Section three of this Act."
A motion to quash the indictment was interposed by
the defendant upon the grounds that the act of Congress
relied on is unconstitutional, because (1) the offense is
not defined with certainty and therefore the act violates
the due' process clause of the Fifth Amendment, and the
requirement of the Sixth Amendment that the accused
shall enjoy the right "to be informed of the nature and
cause of the accusation "; and (2) it is in conflict with
Articles I, II, and III of the federal Constitution which
separate the government into legislative, executive and
judicial branches.
The court below sustained the motion and dismissed
the proceedings. The case comes here by appeal under
the provisions of § 238 of the Judicial Code, as amended
by the Act of February 13, 1925. U. S. C., Title 28, § 345;
U. S. C., Title 18, § 682.
First. The contention seems to be that the proviso
makes it necessary to read § 8 as substantively prohibiting unreasonable variations in the weight, measure or
numerical count of the quantity and contents of any package from that marked on the outside of the package; and
that the test thereby indicated is so indefinite and uncertain that it fails to fix any ascertainable standard of guilt,
or afford a valid definition of a crime. In support of the
contention United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

81, United States v. Brewer, 139 U. S. 278, Connally v.
General Construction Co., 269 U. S. 385, and other decisions of this Court are relied upon.
We are of opinion that the construction thus sought
to be put upon the act cannot be sustained; and, therefore,
other considerations aside, the cases cited do not apply.
The substantive requirement is that the quantity of the
contents shall be plainly and conspicuously marked in
terms of weight, etc. We construe the proviso simply as
giving administrative authority to the Secretaries of the
Teasury, Agriculture, Commerce and Labor to make
rules and regulations permitting reasonable variations
from the hard and fast rule of the act and establishing
tolerances and exemptions as to small packages, in accordance with § 3 thereof.* This construction avoids the
doubt which otherwise might arise as to the. constitutional
point, and, therefore, is to be adopted if reasonably possible. United States v. StandardBrewery, 251 U. S. 210,
220; United States v. La Franca,282 U. S. 568, 574. We
find nothing in the terms of the act to require a division
of the proviso so that the power of regulation will apply
to the establishment of tolerances and exemptions, but n6t
to reasonable variations. We think both are included.
As to this there would be no room for doubt if it were not
for the presence of a comma after the word "permitted,"
or the absence of one after the word "established."
Inserting the latter, the proviso would read, "That reasonable variations shall be permitted, and tolerances and also
exemptions as to small packages shall be established, by
rules and regulations .. ." Punctuation marks are no
part of an act. To determine the intent of the law, the
court, in construing a statute, will disregard the punctuaSec. 3 provides that the Secretaries named "shall make uniform
rules and regulations for carrying out the provisions of this act . . . ,"
*

U. S. v. SHREVEPORT GRAIN & EL. CO.
77

83

Opinion of the Court.

tion, or will repunctuate, if that be necessary, in order to
arrive at the natural meaning of the words employed.
Hammock v. Loan & Trust Co., 105 U. S. 77, 84-85;
United States v. Lacher, 134 U. S. 624, 628;
United States v. Oregon & CaliforniaR. Co., 1641. S. 526,
541; Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445, 480;
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Voelker, 129 Fed. 522,
526-527.
Our attention is called to the fact that the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, in reporting
the bill which afterwards became the act in question (H.
R. 850, 62d Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 2-4), agreed with the view
that the authority to make rules and regulations was confined to. the establishment of tolerances and exemptions;
and that the Senate Committee on Manufactures (S. R.
1216, 62d Cong., 3d Sess., pp. 2-4) reported to the same
effect. In proper cases, such reports are given consideration in determining the meaning of a statute, but only
where that meaning is doubtful.
They cannot be resorted to for the purpose of construing a statute contrary
to the natural import of its terms.
Wisconsin R. R.
Commn. v. C., B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 588-589;
Penna. 1. Co. v. International Coal Co., 230 U. S. 184,
,199; Van Camp & Sons v. American Can Co., 278 U. S.
245, 253. Like other extrinsic aids to construction their
use is "to solve, but not to create an ambiguity." Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U.. S. 414, 421. Or, as stated in
United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385, 396, "If the language be clear it is conclusive. There can be no construction where there is nothing to construe." The same
•-rule is recognized by the English courts. In King v. Commissioners, 5 A. & E. 804, 816, Lord Denman, applying
the rule, said that the court was constrained to give the
words of a private act then under consideration an effect
which probably was "never contemplated by those who

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S

obtained the act, and very probably not intended by the
legislature which enacted it. But our duty is to look
to the language employed,[and construe it in its natural
and obvious sense." See also United States v. Lexington
Mill Co., 232 U. S. 399, 409; Caminettiv. United States,
242 U. S. 470, 485.
Moreover, the practical and long continued construction of the executive departments charged with the administration of the act and with the duty of making the
rules and regulations therein provided for, has been in
accordance with the view we have expressed as to the
meaning of the section under consideration. The rules
and regulations, as amended on May 11, 1914, deal with
the entire subject in detail under the recital, "(i) The
following tolerances and variations [italics supplied] from
the quantity of the contents marked on the package shall
be allowed: . . ." Then follows an enumeration of discrepancies due to errors in weighing which occur in packing conducted in compliance'with good commercial practice; due to differences in capacity of bottles and similar
containers, resulting from unavoidable difficulties in manufacture, etc.; or in weight due to atmospheric differences
in various places, etc. These regulations, which cover
variations as well as tolerances and exemptions, have been
in force for a period of more than eighteen years, with
the silent acquiescence of Congress. If the meaning of
the statutory words was doubtful, so as to call for a resort to extrinsic aid in an effort to reach a proper construction of them, we should hesitate to accept the committee reports in preference to this contemporaneous and
long continued practical construction of the act on the
part of those charged with its administration. Such a
construction, in cases of doubtful meaning, is accepted
unless there are cogent and persuasive reasons for rejecting it. See, for example, United States v. Johnston, 124
U. S. 236, 253.

U. S. v. SHREVEPORT GRAIN & EL. CO.
77

85

Opinion of the Court.

Second. The contention that the act contravenes the
provisions of the Constitution with respect to the separation of the'governmental powers is without merit. That
the legislative power of Congress cannot be delegated is,
of course, clear. But Congress may declare its will, and
after fixing a primary standard, devolve upon administrative officers the "power to fill up the details" by prescribing administrative rules and regulations. That the authority conferred by the act now under review in this
respect does not transcend the power of Congress is not
open to reasonable dispute. The effect of the provision
assailed is to define an offense, but with directions to those
charged with the administration of the act to make supplementary rules and reguiations allowing reasonable. variations, tolerances and exemptions, which, because of
their variety and need of detailed statement, it was impracticable for Congress to prescribe. The effect of the
proviso is evident and legitimate, namely, to prevent the
embarrassment and hardship .which might result from a
too literal and minute enforcement of the act, without at
the same time offending against its purposes. The proviso does not delegate legislative power but confers administrative functions entirely valid within principles established by numerous decisions of this court, of which
the following may be cited as examples. Buttfield v.
Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, 496; Plymouth Coal Co. v.
Pennsylvania,232 U. S.531, 542; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S.506, and authorities reviewed.
Judgment reversed.
Mi. JUSTICE BI NDEIs, MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR.
JUSTICE CAtUwozo con.cur in the result on the ground that

the statute, as punctuated, reads as its legislative history
shows Congress intended it to read, and that, so read, it

is sufficiently definite to satisfy "constitutional requirements.

