CORTES v. BALTIMORE INSULAR LINE.
358

367

Syllabus.

required to determine, for here there is more, and that
enough to bring the case within a well-recognized exception. The rule, general as it is, does not extend to cases
where the constitutional question, however tardily raised,
is considered and decided (Consolidated Turnpike Co. v.
Norfolk & 0. V. Ry. Co., 228 U. S. 326, 334; Cumberland Coal Co. v. Board, 284 U. S. 23), nor does it apply
where the grounds of the decision supply a new -and
unexpected basis for a claim by the defeated party of
the denial of a federal right. Brinkerhoff-Faris Trust &
Savings Co. v. Hill, 281 U. S. 673, 678; Missouri ex rel.
Missouri Insurance Co. v. Gehner, 281 U. S. 313, 320;
American Surety Co. v. Baldwin, supra. This case is
clearly within the second of these exceptions, if it is not
also withiin the first. We have seen that the assault
upon the judgment is made along two lines. The first
is a challenge to the constitutional validity of the ruling.
in the Doney case, and involves a misconception of the
decision in Arizona Grocery Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F.
Ry. Co., supra. The second is a challenge to the constitutional validity of the ruling in this case whereby the
statute is adjudged to mean one thing for some cases
and another thing for others. This'latter objection the
petitioner could not make in advance of the event.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Montana is
accordingly
_Affirmed.

CORTES, ADMINISTRATOR, U.BALTIMORE INSULAR LINE, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 12. Argued November 16, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.
1. Injury suffered by a seaman in the course of his employment, as
the result of failure of the master of the ship to furnish him care
or cure when stricken by pneumonia, is a "personal injury" from

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Respondent.

287 U.S.

"negligence,"

within the purview of § 33 of the Merchant Marine
Act, supplemented by the Federal Employers' Liability Act, for
which that section gives a right of action, by the' seaman if living
or by his personal representative if the injury result in death.
Pp. 371-373.
2. The fact that the duty of master and of shipowner to furnish care
and cure to a seaman in case of illness is a duty arising from and
attached to the contracfual relation of employment, for the breach
of which the seaman has,, under the general maritime law, a cause
of action ex contractu, is not inconsistent with allowing him also,
at his election, a statutory, action ex delicto when neglect of the
duty results in impairment of body or mind; still less inconsistent
with allowing such an action to his personal representative (who
could not otherwise sue) if the injury causes death. P. 372.
3. After the voyage has begun, with care and cure cut off from an ill
seaman unless furnished by officers and crew, withdrawal from the
relation from which springs the duty is impossible, and abandonment is a tort. Pp. 374.
4. Section 33 of the Merchant Marine Act should be liberally construed in aid of its purpose to protect seamen and those dependent
on their earnings. P. 375.
5. When a duty imposed by law for the benefit of the seaman and
for the promotion of his health or safety has been neglected, to
the damage of his person, his remedy, under § 33 of the Merchant
Marine Act, is the same as though a like duty had been imposed by
law upon carriers by rail. Pp. 376-378.
52 F. (2d) 22, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 285 U. S. 535, to review the reversal of a
judgment for damages, recovered against the steamship
company by the petitioner, as administrator of the estate
of a deceased seaman.
Mr. Basil O'Connor for petitioner.

Mr. Geo. Whitefield Betts, Jr., for respondent.
The contract right of a seaman to maintenance and cure,
whether or not the condition requiring it was caused 1y
the master's negligence, is so different from any right or
,duty of the servant or master on shore that common-law
causes involving master and servant relations on land

CORTES v. BALTIMORE INSULAR LINE. 369
367

Argument for Respondent.

are of little help in the solution of the question here. The
cases hold that there is no general duty at common law
owed by the master to the servant to furnish medical
services, but in some jurisdictions a limited duty to provide emergency relief, and then only while the emergency
lasts.
On the other hand, under the law of the sea, the obligation to furnish maintenance in addition to cure extends for
a reasonable period after the seaman has left the ship and
is on shore. See the case of Reed v. Canfield, 1 Sumner
195, where the obligation was extended to medical treatment and expenses of a seaman for more than a year after
-he had left the ship. When we consider that not only the
cure but the maintenance of the seaman, together with a
lien therefor on the ship, The Montezuma, 19 F. (2d) 355,
are given under the law of the sea for such extended periods after the relationship ends and where the injury to the
seaman was not confiected with any negligence on the part
of the vessel, it is easily understood why Congress did not
intend, when the Jones Act was passed, to add to the
shipowner's burdens by engrafting on the law of maintenance and cure a remedy for loss of life. The difficulties
presented,, even to an intelligent and careful master at sea,
in the case of hidden ailments of his crew, are another reason for leaving the law as it has stood for over a century.
The cause of action for failure to provide cure has been
considered a contractual relation since the decisions of
Judge Story over a hundred years ago. Prior to the passage of the Jones Act, in 1920, no cause of action was
given to a seaman arising out of negligence except in cases
Qf 'unseaworthiness of the vessel. In cases brought after
the Jones Act, no recovery has been granted under that
Act for failure to provide cure, so far as counsel have
been able to ascertain, and this Court, in its opinions, has
clearly intimated that Congress did not intend in the Jones
Act to interfere with the maritime law rules involving the
doctrine of maintenance and cure.

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

The language of the Jones Act itself and the history of
its passage indicate that Congress was endeavoring to
change the maritime law by giving to seamen the rights
then enjoyed by railroad employees in respect to accidents,
namely, in abolishing the fellow servant defense and in
applying the common law rule of respondeat superior.
Congress did not intend, in using the term "personal injury," to embrace cases involving the treatment of an illness and Congress did not intend, in using the word "negligence," to cover cases involving the breach of the implied
contract to provide maintenance and cure.
The reversal and dismissal of the complaint should be
sustained, as the proof failed to show that plaintiff's intestate's death was caused by respondent's negligence.
In no event can the judgment of the District Court be
reinstated without modification, as there was error in including interest on the verdict from the date of the death.
MT.

JusTicE. CARwozo

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Santiago, a seaman, shipped on the respondent's vessel
for a voyage from the harbor of New York to Boca
Grande, Florida, and return. On the home voyage, he
fell ill of pneumonia, and died in a hospital after reaching the home port. His administrator, the petitioner,
sued to recover damages for his death, which was charged
to have been caused by the failure of the master of the
ship to give him proper care. In the District Court there
was a judgment for the petitioner, which was reversed
upon appeal. The reversal was on the ground that the
seaman's right of action for negligent care or cure was
ended by his death, and did not accrue to the administrator for the use of next of kin. 52 F. (2d) 22. The case
is here on certiorari.
By the general maritime law a seaman is without- a
remedy against the ship or her owners for injuries to his
person, suffered in the line of service, with two exceptions

CORTES v. BALTIMORE INSULAR LINE. 371
367

Opinion of the Court.

only. A remedy is his if the injury has been suffered as
a consequence of the unseaworthiness of the ship or a
defect iv her equipment. The- Osceola, 189 U. S. 158;
Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372; Pacific
Co. v. Peterson,278 U. S. 130, 134. A remedy is his also
if the injury has been suffered through breach of the duty
to provide him with "maintenance and cure." The duty
to make such provision is imposed by the law itself as
one annexed to the employment. The Osceola, supra.
Contractual it is in the sense that it has its source in a
relation which is contractual in origin, but given the relation, no agreement is competent to abrogate the incident.
If the failure to give maintenance or cure ha caused or
aggravated an illness, the seaman has his right of action
for the injury thus done to him, the recovery in such
circumstances including not only necessary expenses, but
also compensation for the hurt. The Iroquois, 194 U. S.
240. On the other hand, the remedy for the injury, ends
with his death in the absence -of a statute continuing it
or giving it to another for the use of wife or kin. Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia, 257 U. S. 233, 240; Lindgren v.
United States, 281 U. S. 38, 47. Death is a composer of
strife by the general law of the sea as it was for many
centuries by the common law of the land.
The question then is to what extent the ancient rule
has been changed by modem statute. Section 33 of the
Merchant Marine Act of 1020, commonly known as the
Jones Act 1 (41 Stat. 1007, § 33; 46 U. S. Code, § 688),
""Thatany seaman who shall suffer personal injury in the course
of his eiployment may, at his election, maintain an action for damages at law, with the right of trial by jury, and in such action all
statutes of the United States modifying or extending the common-law
right or remedy in cases of personal injury to railway employees shall
apply; and in case of the death of any seaman as a result of any such
personal injury the personal representative of such seaman may
maintain an action for damages at law with the right of trial by

OCTOBER TERMN,

1932.

Opinion of the.Court.

287 U.S.

gives a cause of action to the seaman who has suffered
personal injury through the negligence of his employer.
For death resulting from such injury it 'gives a cause of
action to his personal representative. We are to determine whether death resulting from the negligent omission to furnish care or cure is death from personal injury
within the meaning of the statute.
The argument is pressed upon us that the care owing
to a seaman disabled while in service is an implied term
of his contract, and that the statute cannot have had in
view the breach of a duty contractual in origin for which
he had already a sufficient remedy under existing rules
of law.
We think the origin of the-duty is consistent with a
remedy in tort, since the wrong, if a violation of a contract, is also something more. The duty, as already
pointed out, is one annexed by law to a relation, and
annexed as an inseparable incident without heed to any
expression of the will of the contracting parties. For
breach of a duty thus imposed, the remedy upon the contract does not exclude an alternative remedy built upon
the tort. The passenger in a public conveyance who has
been injured by the negligence *of the carrier, may sue
for breach of contract if he will, but also at his election
in trespass on-the case. Jackson v. Old Colony Street
Ry., 206 Mass. 477, 485; 92 N. E. 725; Busch v. Interborough R. T. Co., 187 N. Y. 388, 391; 80 N. E. 197;
Rich v. New York Central & H. R. R. Co., 87 N. Y. 382,
390; Neil v. Flynn Lumber Co., 71 W. Va. 708; 77 S. E.
jury, and in such action all statutes of the United States conferring
or regulating the right of action for death in the case of railway employees shall be applicable."
Compare the act of March 30, 1920, c. 111, § 1, 41 Stat. 537, 46
U. S. Code, § 761, "Death on the High Seas by Wrongful Act,"
Which extends to persons other than seamen, but is limited to suits in
admiralty.

CORTES v. BALTIMORE INSULAR LINE. 373
367

Opinion of the Court

324; cf. the cases cited in Pollock on Torts (13th ed.),
p. 557 et seq. The employee of an interstate carrier injured through the omission to furnish him with safe arid
suitable appliances may have a, remedy under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act (45 U. S. Code § 51), or at times
under the Safety Appliance Act (45 U. S. Code, §§ 1
to 6), though the omission would not be actionable in
the absence of a contract creating the employment. So,
in the case at hand, the proper subject of inquiry is not
the quality of the relation that gives birth to the duty,
but the quality of the duty that is born of the relation.
If the wrong is of such a nature as to bring it by fair
intendment within the category of a "personal injury"
that hag been caused by the "negligence" of the master,
it is not put beyond the statute because it may appropriately be placed in another category also.
We are thus brought to the inquiry whether "negligence" and "personal injury" are terms fittingly applied
to the .acts charged to the respondent. The case is helped
by illustrations. Let us suppose the case of a seaman
who is starved during the voyage in disregard of the
duty of maintenance with the result that his health is
permanently impaired. There is little doubt that in the
common speech of men he- would be said to have suffered a personal injury, just as much as a child in an
orphan's home who had been wronged in the same way.
Cf. Queen v. Intan, [1893] 1 Q. B. 450. Let us suppose
the case of a seaman slightly wounded through his own
fault, 'but suffering grievous hurt thereafter as a consequence of septic poisoning 'brought about by lack of
ftreatment. The common speech of men would give a
like descriptiori to the wrong that he had suffered. The
failure to provide maintenance or cure may be a personal
injury or something else according to the consequences.
If the seaman has been-able to procure his maintenance
and cure out of his own or his friendi' money, his remedy

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

is for the outlay, but personal injury there is none. If
the default of the vessel and its officers has impaired
his bodily or mental health, the damage to mind or body
is none the less a personal injury because he may be free
at his election to plead it in a different count. Cf. Pacific
Co. v. Peterson, supra, pp. 137, 138. Nor is liability
escaped by appeal to the distinction between acts of omission on the one hand and those of commission on the
other. Moch Co. v. Rensselaer Water Co., 247 N. Y.
160, 167, 168; 159 N. E. 896. A division is sometimes
drawn between the termination of a relation at a time
when it is still executory or future, and its termination
when performance has gone forward to such a point that
abandonment of duty becomes an active agency of harm.
Moch Co. v. Rensselaer Co., supra. The respondent is
not helped though its treatment of the seaman be subjected to that test. Here performance was begun when
the vessel started on her voyage with Santiago aboard
and with care and cure cut off from him unless furnished
by officers or crew. From that time forth withdrawal
was impossible and abandonment a tort. Given a relation involving in its existence a duty of care irrespective
of a contract, a tort may result as well from acts of
omission as of commission in the fulfilment of the duty
thus recognized by law. Moch Co. v. Rensselaer Water
Co., supra, citing Pollock on Torts, (13th ed.), p. 567;
Kelly v. Metropolitan Ry. Co., [1895] 1 Q. B. 944.
We are told, however, that the personal injury from
negligence covered by the statute must be given a narrow
content, excluding starvation and malpractice, because
for starvation and malpractice the seaman without an
enabling act had a sufficient remedy before. The seaman
may indeed have had such a remedy, but his pbrsonal
representative had none if the wrong resulted in his
death. While the seaman was still alive, his cause of
action for personal injury created by the statute may have

CORTES v. BALTIMORE INSULAR LINE. 375
367

Opinion of the Court.

overlapped his cause of action for breach of the maritime
duty of maintenance and cure, just as it may have overlapped his cause of action for injury caused through an
unseaworthy ship. Pacific Co.v. Peterson, supra,p. 138;
Baltimore S. S, Co. v. Phillips, 274 U. S. 316, 321, 324.
In such circumstances it was his privilege, in so far as
the causes of action covered the same ground, to sue indifferently on any one of them. The overlapping is no
reason for denying to the words of the statute the breadth
of meaning and operation that would normally belong to
them, at all events when a consequence of the denial is
to withhold any remedy whatever from dependent next
of kin. A double remedy during life is not without a
rational office if the effect of the duplication is to carry"
the remedy forward for others after death. The argument for the respondent imputes to the lawmakers a
subtlety of discrimination which they would probably
disclaim. There was to be a remedy for the personal
representative if the seaman was killed by the negligent
omission to place a cover over a hatchway or to keep the
rigging safe and sound. There was to be none, we are
told, if he was killed for lack of food or medicine, though
the one duty equally with the other was attached by law
to the relation. This court has held that the act is to
be liberally construed in aid of its beneficent purpose to
give protection to the seaman and to those dependent on
his earnings. Jamison v. Encarnacion, 281 U. S. 635.
An assault by one member of the crew upon another with
a view to hurrying up the work has been brought within
the category of "negligence," and hence in a suit against
the owner becomes an actionable wrong. Jamison v.
Encarnacian,supra; Alpha S. S. Corp. v. Cain, 281 U. S.
642. Approaching the decision of this case in a like
spirit of liberality, we put aside many of the refinements
of construction that a different spirit might approve.

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

The failure to furnish cure is a personal injury actionable
at the suit of the seaman during life, and at the suit of
his personal representative now that he is dead. Cf. U. S.
Shipping Board E. F. Corp. v. Greenwald, 16 F. (2d) 948.
We are warned, however, that in giving this content to
the statute we are omitting to give heed to its reference
to the act regulating the remedies of railroad employees,
and are ignoring the standards of duty thus carried over
and adopted. The Employers' Liability Act for the protection of the employees of common carriers by railroad
gives a remedy to such employees "for injury or death
resulting in whole or in part from the negligence of any
of the officers, agents or employees of such carrier," or by
reason 6f any negligent defect in its roadbed or equipment. 35 Stat. 65, § 1; 45 U. S. Code, § 51. True indeed
it is that a, common carrier by land is not subject to a
duty, except in special circumstances, to give maintenance
or cure to sick or disabled employees. We say except in
special circumstances, for it would be hazardous to assert
that such a duty may not rest upon the representative of
a railroad as well as upon the master of a ship when the
servant, exposed by the conditions of the work to extraordinary risks, is helpless altogether unless relief is given
on the spot. Ohio & Missigsippi Ry. Co. v. Early, 141
Ind. 73, 81; 40 N. E. 257; Shaw v. Chicago, M. & St. P.
Ry. Co., 103 Minn. 8; 114 N. W. 85; Raasch v. Elite
Laundry Co., 98 Minn. 357; 108.N. W. 477; Hunicke v.
Meramec Quarry Co., 262 Mo. 560, 581, 597; 172 S. W.
43* The result, however, will not be different though we
assume that the servant of a railroad company, if he has
been injured without fault, may never call for help as due
to' him of right, however pressing the emergency and im-.
-The authorities are brought together and carefully discriminated
by.Prof. Francis H. Bohlen, in an article "Moral Duty to Aid Others
as Basis of Tort Liability," in 56 University of Penn. L. Rev. 217, 316,
reprinted in his "Studies in the Law of Torts," pp. 290, 315.

CORTES v. BALTIMORE INSU-LAR LINE. 377
367

Opinion of the Court.

perative the need. We do not read the act for the relief
of seamen as expressing the will of Congress that only the
same defaults imposing liability upon carriers by rail shall
impose liability upon carriers by water. The conditions
at sea differ widely from those on land, and the diversity
of conditions breeds diversity of duties. This court has
said that "the ancient characterization of seamen as
'wards of admiralty' is even more accurate now than it,
was formerly." Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, 287.
Another court has said: "The master's authority is quite
despotic and sometimes roughly exercised, and the conveniences of a sbip out upon the ocean are necessarily narrow and limited." Scarff v. Metcalf, 107 N. Y. 211, 215;
13 N. E. 796. Out of this relation of dependence and submission there emerges for the stronger party a corresponding standard or obligation of fostering protection. There
is doubt, and that substantial, whether the administrator
of a railroad engineer who by misadventue has fallen
from his locomotive while the train is on a bridge has a
cause of action under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act because of the failure of the crew of the train to come
to, the rescue of their comrade. Harris v. Penn. R. R.
Co., 50 F. (2d) 866, 868.1 There is little doubt that rescue
is a duty when a sailor falls into the sea, United States v.
Knowles, 4 Sawy. 517, and that a liability to respond in
damages is cast upon the shipowners if he is abandoned
to his fate. Harrisv. Penn. R. R. Co., supra.
The act for the protection of railroad employees does
not define negligence. It leaveq that definition to be
filled in by the general rules of law applicable t6 the conditions in which a casualty occurs. Cf. Murray v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. 62 Fed. 24, 31; Ward v. Erie R. Co.,
230 N. Y. 230, 234; 129 N. E. 886; Michigan-v. Michigan
Trust Co., 286 U. S. 334, 343. Congress did not mean
'Compare again the authorities collected by Bohlen in his "Studies
in the Law of Torts," p. 312.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

that the standards of legal duty must be the same .by
land and sea. Congress meant no more than this, that
the duty must be legal, i. e., imposed by law; that it shall
have been imposed for the benefit of the seaman, and for
the promotion of his health or safety; and that the
negligent omission to fulfill it shall have resulted in damage to his person. When this, concurrence of duty, of
negligence and of personal injury is made out, the seaman's remedy is to be the same as if a like duty had been
imposed'by law upon carriers by rail.
The Court of Appeals in its reversal of the District
Court assumed without deciding that the care of the seaman had been negligent and that there was a causal
relation between the negligence and the death. The
correctness of that assumption is challenged by counsel
,for the shipowner. These issues of fact being still open
and undecided should be disposed of by the court below.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to
the Court of Appeals for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
STERLING, GOVERNOR OF TEXAS, ET AI. v. CONSTANTIN ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

Nos. 11 and 453. Argued November 15, 16, 1932.-Decided Decem-

ber 12, 1932.
1. The Governor of a State is subject to the process of the federal
"courts for the relief of private persons when by his acts under color

of state authority he invades rights secured to them by the Federal
Constitution. P. 393.
2. The suit is not a suit against the State. Id.
3. In a suit to restrain a state official from violating federal constitutional rights by action under color of state law, the fact that it may
appear that, he exceeded his authority under that law does not
deprive the District Court of jurisdiction. Id.

