SORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
430

435

Syllabus.

661. And see In re Keasbey & Mattison Co., 160 U. S.
221-230. Section 48 relates to venue. It confers upon
defendants in patent cases a privilege in respect of the
places in which suits may be maintained against them.
And that privilege may be waived. Lee v. Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 653. Gulf Smokeless Coal Co. v.
Sutton, Steele & Steele, 35 F. (2d) 433, 438. The section
does not, as to counterclaims, purport to modify the rule,
prevailing prior to its enactment. The setting up of a
counterclaim against one. already in d court of his own
choosing is very different, in respect to venue, from hailing
him into that court. Section 48, taken according to the
meaning ordinarily given to the words used, applies only
to the latter, and we find no Warrant for a construction
thai would make it include the former. This Court has
recently declared that one who sues in a federal court of
equity to enjoin the infringement of his patent, thereby
submits hirhself to the jurisdiction of the court with respect to all the issues of the case, including those pertaining to a counterclaim praying that he be restrained from
infringing a patent of the defendant. Leman v. KrentlerArnold Co., 284 U. S. 448, 451. And that rule applies
here.
Affirmed.
S.ORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 177. Argued November 8, 1932.-Decided December 19, 1932.

1. Where application of a penal statute according to its literal meaning would produce results contrary to the plain purpose and policy
of the enactment, and flagrantly unjust, another construction should
be adopted if possible. P. 446.
2. The National Prohibition Act, though denouncing generally as

criminal the sale of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes, was

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argunient for Petitioner.

2S7 U.S.

not intonded to apply where the sale is instigated by a prohibition
agent for the purpose of luring a person, otherwise innocent, to the
commission of the crime so that he may be arrested and punished.
P. 44S.
3. The defense of entrapment can not be attributed to any power in
the. courts to grant immunity or defeat prosecution when a penal
statute has bepn violated; it depends upon the scope of the statute
alleged to have been violated, i. c.. whether the statute should be
construed as intending to apply in the particular case. P. 449.
4. That the issue of entrapment will involve collateral inquiries as to
the activities of government agents and ias to the conduct and purposes of the defendant previous to the alleged offense, is not a
valid reason for rejecting entrapment as a defense. P. 451.
5. Entrapment is available as a defense under a plea of not guilty; it
need not be set up by a special plea in bar. P. 452.
6. Evidence of entrapment in. this case held such that it should have
been submitted to the jury. P. 452.
57 F. (2d) 973, reveised.

CERTIORARI * to review the affirmance of a sentence for
violation of the Prohibition Act. The certiorari was limited to the question whether evidence on the issue of entrapment was sufficient to go to the jury.
M11r. John Y. Jordan,Jr., with whom 3/r. A. Hall John-

ston was on the brief, for petitioner.
The court should have directed a verdict in favor of
the defendant upon the resting by the Government of
its case because the evidence showed entrapment. Peterson v. United States, 255 Fed. 433 - Butts v. United States,
273 Fed. 35; Newman v. United States, 299 Fed. 126;
Silk v. United States, 16 F. (2d) 568; see also 18 A. L. R.
143, 149, 164, and Casey v. United States, 276 U. S. 413.
If the evidence on the question of entrapment is in
conflict, it presents an issue of fact which the court should
have submitted to the jury on proper instructions. Jarl
v. United States, 19 F. (2d) 891, and cases supra.
*See

Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

SORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
435

Argument for the United States.

Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Messrs. Whitney
North Seymour and John J. Byrne were on the brief, for
the United States.
Since the defendant has intentionally committed all
the acts constituting thecrime charged against him, there
is logical force in the view of the court below that the
courts may not absolve him from guilt because an officer
of the Government instigated the crime. We submit this
view upon the opinion of the court below.
This posit*ion, however, is not supported by decisions in
other federal courts, which hold that the "defense" of
entrapment is maintainable if the crime was induced by
Government agents under circumstances which open the
Government's action to condemnation upon grounds of
public policy. We believe that there undoubtedly are
cases where conduct on the part of Government officers
is so plainly the provocation for violation of law that
public policy requires that the courts should not permit
a prosecution for such violation to continue. However,
such conduct does not give rise to a defense, but rather
calls into operation, the courts' power to prevent official
abuses.
Where the defendant's act has not been deprived of its
criminality by conduct of the officer, the issue of entrapment can not properly be raised under a plea of
not guilty, for inquiry regarding the actions of Government officials leads to examination of collateral and sometimes extremely prejudicial matters (such as suspicions
of defendant's past criminality, his reputation in the
community, and evidence of other crimes) and prevents
orderly inquiry by the same jury as to the defendant's
guilt or innocence of the act charged. We submit, therefore, that the issue should be raised in advance of trial
of the general issue, by a special plea in bar, since the
defendant does not contend that he is not guilty, but

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

that, for reasons of public policy he should not be prosecuted. The procedure we duggest is supported by the
rules of pleading in analogous situations, and will prevent
the intrusion of confusion and prejudice. If, as we contend, the issue of entrapment could be raised only by a
special plea in bar, the District Court did not err in
declining to submit the question to the jury.
If it be said that, although the defense of entrapment
is not open to the defendant upon a plea of not guilty,
the court may nevertheless, on its own motion and at any
stage of the proceedings, decline to proceed with the case
for reasons of public policy, then we submit that- the
question whether the officer's conduct was proper must
be decided by the judge, and not by the jury, whether it
be one" of fact or of law. In this view of the matter the.
decision below should be affirmed, on the ground that the
District Judge concluded that the evidence did not sustain the defense; or, if it be thought that the Judge did
not determine the questions of fact, the case should be
remanded to the District Court for adjudication by:the
court of the issue whether defendant was entrapped.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Defendant was indicted on two counts (1) for possessing and (2) for selling, on July 13,- 1930, one-half gallon
of whiskey in violation of the National Prohibition Act.
He pleaded not guilty. Upon the trial he relied upon the
defense of entrapment. The court refused to sustain the
defense, denying a motion to direct'a verdict in favor of
defendant and also refusing to submit the issue of entrapment to the jury. The court ruled that "as a matter of
law" there was no entrapment. Verdict. of guilty followed, motions in arrest, and to set aside the verdict as
.contrary to the law and the evidence, were denied, and
defendant was sentenced to imprisonment for eighteen

SORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
435

Opinion of the Court.

months. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment, 57 F. (2d) 973, and this Court granted a writ of
certiorari limited to the question whether the evidence
was sufficient to go to the jury upon the issue of entrapment.
The Government, while supportifig 'the conclusion of
the court below, also urges that the defense, if available,
should have been pleaded in bar to further proceedings
under the indictment and could not be raised underthe
plea of not guilty. This question of pleading appropriately awaits the consideration of the nature and grounds
of the defense.
The substance of the testimony at the trial as to entrapment was as follows: For the Government, one Martin,
a prohibition agent, testified that having -resided for a
time in Hlaywood County, North Carolina, where he posed
as a tourist, he visited defendanOs home near Canton, on
Sunday, July 13, 1930, accompanied by thre6 residents of
the county who knew the defendant well. He was introduced as a resident of Charlotte who was stopping for a
time at Clyde. The witness ascertained that defendant
was a veteran of the World War and a former member of.
tfie 30th Division A. E. F. Witness informed defendant
that he was also an ex-service man and a former member
of the same Division; which was true. Witness asked
defendant if he could get the witness some liquor and
defendant stated that he did not have any. Later, there
was a second request without result. One of those present, one Jones, was also an "ex-service man and a former
member of the 30th Division, and the conversation turned
to the war experiences of the three. After this, witness
asked defendant for a third time'to get him some liquor,
whereupon defendant left his home and after a-few minutes came back with a half gallon of liquor for which the
witness paid. defendant five dollars. Martin also testified
that he was " the first and only person among those pres-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

ent at the time who said anything about securing some
liquor," and that his purpose was to prosecute the defendant for procuring and selling it. The Government rested
its case on Martin's testimony.
Defendant called as witnesses the three persons who had
accompanied the prohibition agent. In substance, they
corroborated the latter's story but with some additions.
Jones, a railroad employee, testified that he had introduced the agent to the defendant "as a furniture dealer
of Charlotte," because the agent had so represented himself; that witness told defendant that the agent was "an
old 30th Division man" and the agent thereupon said to
defendant that he "would like to get a half gallon of
whiskey to take back to Charlotte to a friend of his that
was in the furniture business with him," and that defendant replied that he "did not fool with whiskey "; that the
agent and his companions were at defendant's home "for
probably an hour or an hour and a half and that during
such time the agent asked the defendant three or four or
probably five times to get him, the agent, some liquor."
Defendant said "he would go and see if he could get a
half gallon of liquor" and he returned with it after an
absence of "between twenty and thirty minutes." Jones
added that at that time he had never heard of defendant
being in the liquor business, that he and the defendant
were" two- Id buddies," and that he believed "one former
war buddy would get liquor for, another."
Another witness, the timekeeper and assistant paymaster of the Champion Fibre Company at Canton, testified
that defendant was an employee of that company and
had been "on his job continuously without missing a
pay day since March, 1924." Witness identified the time
sheet showing this employment. This witness and three
others who were neighbors of the defendant aid ha4
known him for many years testified to his good character..

SORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
435

Opinion of the Court.

To rebut this testimony, the Government called three
witnesses who testified that the defendant had the general reputation of a rum-runner. There was no evidence
that the defendant had ever possessed or sold any intoxicating liquor prior to the transaction in question.
It is clear that the evidence was sufficient to warrant
a finding that the act for which defendant was prosecuted
was instigated by the prohibition agent, that it was the
creature of his purpose, that defendant had no previous
disposition to commit it but was an industrious, lawabiding citizen, and that the agent lured defendant,
otherwise innocent, to its commission by repeated and
persistent solicitation in which he succeeded by taking advantage of the sentiment aroused by reminiscences of their
experiences as companions in arms in the World War.
Such a gross abuse of authority given for the purpose of
detecting and punishing crime, and not for the making
of criminals, deserves the severest condemnation, but the
question whether it precludes prosecution or affords a
ground of defense, and, if so, upon what theory, has given
rise to conflicting opinions.
It is well settled that the fact that officers or employees
of the Government merely afford opportunities or facilities for the commission of the offense does not defeat
the prosecution. Artifice and stratagem may be employed
to catch those engaged in criminal enterprises. Grimm v.
United States, 156 U. S. 604, 610; Goode v. United States,
159 U. S. 663, 669; Rosen v. United States, 161 U. S. 29,
42; Andrews v. United States, 162 U. S. 420, 423; Price v.
United States, 165 U. S. 311, 315; Bates v. United States,
10 Fed. 92, 94, note, p. 97. United States v. Reisenweber,
288 Fed. 520, 526; Aultman v. United States, 289 Fed.
251.1 The appropriate object of this permitted activity,
frequently essential to the enforcement of the law, is to
:See, also, Regina v. Williams, 1 Car. & K. 195; People v. Mills, 178
N Y. 274; 70 N. E. 786; People v. Ficke, 343 IlM. 367; 175 N. E. 543.

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

reveal the criminal design; to expose the -illicit traffic, the
prohibited publication, the fraudulent use of the mails,
the illegal conspiracy, or other offenses, and thus to disclose the would-be violators of the law. A different question is presented when the criminal design originates with
the officials of the Government' and they implant in the
mind of an innocent person the disposition to commit the
alleged offense and induce its commission in order that
they may prosecute.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reached the conclusion
that the defense of entrapment can be maintained only
where, as a result-of inducement, the. accused is placed in
the attitude of having committed a crime which he did
not intend to commit, or where, by reason of the consent
implied in the inducement, no crime has in fact been committed. 57 F. (2d) p. 974. Aยง illustrating the first class,
reference' is made to the case of a sale of liquor to an
Indian who -was disguised so as to mislead the accused as
to his identity. United States v. Healy, 202 Fed. 349;
Voves v. UnitedStates, 249 Fed. 191. In the second class
are found .cases such as those of larceny or rape where
want of consent is an element of the crime. Regina v.
Fletcher, 8 Cox C. C. 131; Rex v. McDaniel, Fost. 121,
127, 128; Connor v. People, 18 Colo. 373; 33 Pac. 159;
Williams v. Georgia, 55 Ga. 391; United States v. Whittier, 5 Dill. 35; State v. Adams, 115 N. C. 775; 20 S. E.
722. There may also be physical conditions which are
essential to the offense and which do not exist in the case
of a trap, as, for example, in the case of a prosecution for
burglary where it appears that by reason of the trap there
is no breaking.2 Rex v. Egginton, 2 Leach C. C. 913;
Regina v. Johnson, Car. & Mar. 218; Saunders v. People,
38 Mich 218; People v. McCord, 76 Mich. 200; 42 N. W.
1106; Allen v. State, 40 Ala. 334; Love v. People, 160 IlL
*See note of Francis Wharton to Bates v. United States, 10 Fed.

97-99.

SORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
435

Opinion of- the Court.

501; 43 N. E. 710. But these decisions applying accepted
principles to particular offenses, do not reach, much less
determine, the present question. Neither in reasoning
nor in effect do they prescribe limits for the doctrine of
entrapment.
While this Court has not spoken on the precise question (see Casey v. United States, 276 U. S. 413, 419, 423 1),
the weight of authority in the lower federal courts'is decidedly in favor of the view that in such case as the one
before us the.defense of entrapment is available. The
Government concedes that its contention, in supporting
the ruling of the Circuit Court of Appeal, is opposed by
decisions in all the other Circuits except the Tenth Circuit, and no decision in that Circuit suggesting a different
view has been brought to our attention. See Capuano v.
United States (C. C. A. 1st), 9 F. (2d) 41, 42; United
States v. Lynch (S. D. N. Y., Hough, J.), 256 Fed. 983,
984; Lucadamo v. United States (C. C. A. 2d), 280 Fed.
653, 657, 658; Zucker v. United States (C. C. A. 3d), 288
Fed. 12, 15; Gargano v. United States (C. C. A. 5th),
24 F. (2d) 625, 626; Cermak v. United States (C. C. A.
6th), 4 F. (2d) 99; O'Brien v. United States (C. C. A.
7th), 51 F. (2d) 674, 679, 680; Butts v. United States
(C. C. A. 8th), 273 Fed. 35, 38; Woo Wai v. UnitedStates (C. C. A. 9th), 223 Fed. 412. And the Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Fourth Circuit, in the instant
case, was able to reach its conclusion only by declining to
follow the rule which it had laid down in its earlier decision in Newman v. United States, 299 Fed. 128, 131V It
'Compare Olmstead v. United States, 277 U. S. 438.

"See, also, United States v. Adams, 59 Fed. 674; Sam Yick v.
United States, 240 Fed. 60, 65; United States v. Echols, 253 Fed. 862;
Peterson v. United States, 255 Fed. 433; Billingsley v. United States,
274 Fed. 86, 89; Lutermani v. United States, 281 Fed. 374, 377;
United States v. Pappagoda,288 Fed. 214; Ritter v..United States,
293 Fed. 187; Di Salvo v. United States, 2 F. (2d) 222; Silk v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

should be added that in many cases in which the evidence
has been found insufficient to support the defense of entrapment the availability of that defense, on a showing
of such facts as are present here, has been recognized."
The federal courts have generally approved the statement
of Circuit Judge Sanborn in the leading case of Butts v.
United States, supra, as follows: "The first duties of the
officers of the law are to prevent, not to punish crime. It
is not their duty to incite to and create crime for the sole
purpose of prosecuting and punishing it. Here the evidence
strongly tends to prove, if it does not conclusively do so,
that their first and chief endeavor was to cause, to create,
crime in order to punish it, and it is unconscionable, contrary to public policy, and to the established law of the
land to punish a man for the commission of an offense of
the like of which he had neVer been guilty, either in
thought or in deed, and evidently never would have been
guilty of if the officers of the law had not inspired,
incited, persuaded, and lured him to attempt to comUnited States, 16 F. (2d) 568; Jarl v. United States, 19 F. (2d) 891;
Corcoran v. United States, 19 F. (2d) 901; United States v. Washington, 20 F. (2d) 160; Cline v. United Sta~tes, 20 F. (2d) 494;
United States ex rel. Hassel v. Mathues, 22 F. (2d) 979; Driskill v.
United States, 24 F. (2d) 525; Ybor v. United States, 31 F. (2d) 42;
Robinson v. United States, 32 F. (2d) 605; Vaccaro v. Collier, 38 F.
(2d) 862; Patton v. United States, 42 F. (2d) 68; and cases collected
in n6te in O'Brien v. United States, 51 F. (2d) 674, 678, including
decisions of state courts. Compare Rex v. Titley, 14 Cox C. C. 502;
Blaikie v. Linton, 18 Scottish Law Rep. 583; London Law Times,
July 30, 1881, p. 223; People v. Mills, 178 N. Y. 274; 70 N.,E. 786;
State v. Smith, 152 N. C. 798; 67 S.E. 508; Bauer v. Commonwealth,
135 Va. 463; 115 S.E. 514; State v. Gibbs, 109 MAinn. 247; 123 N. W.
810; State v. Rippey, 127 S.C. 550; 122 S. E. 397. See, also, 18 A. L.
R. Ann. 146; 28 Col. L. Rev. 1067; 44 Harv. L. Rev. 109; 2 So.
Cal. L. Rev. 283; 41 Yale L. J. 1249; 10 Va. L. Rev. 316; 9 Tex.
L. Rev. 276.
'See cases cited in note 4.

SORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
435

Opinion of the Court.

mit it." The judgment in that case was reversed because of the 'fatal error' of -the trial court in refusing
to instruct the jury to that effect. In Newmanr.v.
United States, supra, the applicable principle was thus
stated by Circuit Judge Woods: "It is well settled that
decoys may be used to entrap criminals, and to present
opportunity to one intending or willing to commit crime.
But decoys are not permissible to ensnare the innocent
and law-abiding into the commission of crime. When
the criminal design originates, not with the accused, but is
conceived in the mind of the government officers, and the
accused is by. persuasion, deceitful representation, or inducement lured into the commission of a criminal act,
the government is estopped by sound public policy from
prosecution therefor." These quotations sufficiently indicate the grounds of the decisions above cited.
The validity of the principle as thus stated and applied
is challenged both upon theoretical and practical grounds.
The argument, from the standpoint of principle, is that
the court is called upon to try the accused for a particular
offense which is defined by statute and that, if the evidence shows that this offense has knowingly been committed, it matters not that its commission was ihduced by
officers of the Government in the manner and circumstances assumed. It is said that where one intentionally
does an act in circumstances known to him, and the particular conduct is forbidden by the law in those circumstances, he intentionally breaks the law in the only sense
in which the law considers intent. Ellis v. United States,
206 U. S. 246, 257. Moreover, that as the statute is designed to redress a public wrong, and not a private injury,
there is no ground for holding the Government estopped
by the conduct of its officers from prosecuting the offender.
To the suggestion of public policy the objectors answer
that the legislature, acting within its constitutional au-

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court

287 U.S.

thority, is the arbiter of public policy 8 and that, where
conduct is expressly forbidden and penalized by a valid.
statute, the courts are not at liberty to disregard the law
and to bar a prosecution for its violation because they are
of the opinion that the crime has been instigated by government officials:
It is manifest that these arguments rest entirely upon
the letter of the statute. They take no account of the
fact that its application in.the circumstances under consideration is foreign to its purpose; that such an application is so shocking to-the sense of justice that it has been
urged that it is the duty of the court to stop the prosecution in the interest of the Government itself, to protect it
from the illegal conduct of its officers and to preserve the
purity of its courts. Casey v. United States, supra. But
can an application of the statute having such an effectcreating a situation so contrary to the purpose of the law
and so inconsisteht with its proper enforcement as to invoke such a challenge-fairly be deemed to be within its
intendment?.
Literal interpretation of statutes at the expense of the
reason of the law and producing absurd consequences 6r
flagrant injustice has frequently been* condemned.- In
United States v. Palmer,3 Wheat. 610, 631, Chief Justice
Marshall, in construing the Act of Congress of April 30,
1790, ยง 8 (1 Stat. 113) relating to robbery on the high eas,
found that the words "any person or persons" were
"broad enough to comprehend every human being," but
he concluded that "general words must not only be
limited to cases within the jurisdiction of the state, but
also to those objects to .which the legislature intended to
apply them." In United States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482,
the case arose under the Act of Congress of March 3, 1825
'.See Chicago B. & Q. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549,-565;
Green v. Frazier, 253 U. S. 233,124.

SORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
435

Opinion of the Court.

(4 Stat. 104) providing for the conviction of any person
who "shall knowingly and willfully obstruct or retard
the passage of the mail, or of any driver or carrier..
carrying the same." Considering the purpose of the statute, the Court held that it had no application to the obstruction or retarding of the passage of the mail or of its
carrier by reason of the arrest of the carrier upon a warrant issued by a state court. The Court said: "All laws
should receive a sensible construction. General terms
should be so limited in their application as not to lead to
injustice, oppression, or an absurd consequence. It will
always, therefore, be presumed that the legislature intended exceptions to its language which would avoid results of this character. The reason of the law in such
cases should prevail over its letter." And the Court supported this conclusion by reference to the classical illustrations found in Puffendorf and Plowden. Id., pp. 486,
487.
Applying this principle in Lau Ow Bew v. UnitedStates,
144 U. S. 47, the Court decided that a statute requiring
the permission of the Chinese government, and identification by certificate, of "every Chinese person other than
a laborer," entitled by treaty or the act of Congress to
come within the Linited States, did not apply to Chinese
merchants already domiciled in the United States, who
had left the country for temporary purposes, animo revertendi, and sought to reenter it on their return to their
business and their homes. And in- United States v. Katz,
271 U. S. 354, 362, construing ยง 10 of the National Prohibition Act so as to avoid an unreasonable application
of its words, if taken literally, the Court again declared
that 'Igeneral terms. descriptive of a class of persons made
subject to a criminal statute may and should be limited
where the literal application of the statute would leal to
extreme or absurd results, and where the legislative pur-

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court

287 U.S.

pose gathered from the whole Act would be satisfied by
a more limited interpretation," 7 See, to the same effect,
Heydenfeldt v. Daney Gold Mining Co., 93 U. S. 634, 638;
Carlisle v. United States, 16 Wall. 147, 153; Odtes v. National Bank, 100 U. S. 239; Chew Heong v. United States,
112 U. S. 536, 555; Holy Trinity Church v. United States,
143 U. S. 457, 459-462; Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S.
197, 212-214; Jacobsonv. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 39;
United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, 402; Baender v. Barnett, 255 U. S.224, 226; United States v. Chemical Foundation,272 U. S.1, 18.
We think that this established principle of construction is applicable here. We are unable to conclude that
it was the intention of the Congress in enacting this
statute that its processes of detection and enforcement
should be abused by the instigation'by government officials of an act on the part of persons otherwise innocent
in order to lure them to its commission and to punish
them. We are not forced by the letter to do violence
to the spirit and purpose of the statute. This, :we think,
has been the underlying and controlling thotight in the
suggestions in judicial opinions that the Government in
such a case is estopped to prosecute or that the courts
should bar the prosecution. If the requirements of the
highest public policy in the maintenance of the integrity
'In Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197, 214, the Court referred with
approval to the following language of the Master of the Rolls (afterwards Lord Esher) in Plumstead Board of Works v. Spackman, L. R.
-13 Q. B. D. 878, 887: "If there are no means of avoiding such an
interpretation of the statute," (as will amount to a great hardship,)
"a judge must come to the conclusion that the legislature by inadvertence has committed an act of legislative injustice; but to my
mind a judge ought to struggle with aUlthe -intellect that he has,
and with all the vigor of mind that he has, against such an interpretation of an act of Parliament; and, unless he is forced to come
.to a contrary conclusion, he ought to assume that it is impossible
that the legislature could have so intended."

SORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
435

Opinion of the Court.

of administration would precludq the enforcement of the
statute in such circumstances as are present here, the same
considerations justify the conclusion that the case lies
outside the purview of the Act and that its general words
should not be construed to demand a proceeding at once
inconsistent with that policy and abhorrent to the sense
of justice. This view does not derogate from the authority
of 'the court to deal appropriately with abuses of its
process and it obviates the objection to the exercise by the
court of a dispensing power in forbidding the prosecution
of one who is charged with conduct assumed to fall within
the statute.
We are unable to approve the view that the court, although treating the statute as applicable despite the entrapment, and the defendant as guilty, has authority to
grant immunity, or to adopt a procedure to that end. It
is the function of the court to construe the statute, pot
to defeat it as construed. Clemency is the function of
the Executive. Ex parte United States, 242 U. S. 27, 42.
In that case, this Court decisively denied such authorit'y
to free guilty defendants, in holding that the court had
no power to suspend sentences indeffifitely. The Court,
speaking by Chief Justice White, said--" if it be that the
plain legislative command fixing a specific punishment
for prime is subject to be permanently set aside by an
implied judicial power upon considerations extraneous
to
the legality of the conviction, it would seem necessarily
to follow that there could be likewise implied a discretionary authority to permanently refuse to try a, criminal
charge because of the conclusion that a particular act made
criminal by law ought not to be treated as criminal. And
thus it would come to pass that the possession by the
judicial department of power to permanently refuse to
enforce a law would result in the destruction of the conceded powers of the other -departments and hence leave
no law to be enforced." And while recognizi'g the hu-

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
. Opinion of the Court

287 U.S.

mane considerations which had led judges to adopt the
practice of suspending sentences indefinitely in certain
cases, the Court found no ground for approving the practice " since its exercise in the very nature of things
amounts to a refusal by the judicial power to perform a
duty resting upon it and, as a consequence thereof, to an
interference with both the legislative and executive authority as fixed by the C6nstitution.". Id. pp. 51, 52.
Where defendant has been duly indicted for an offense
found to be within the statute, and the pir.per authorities
seek to proceed with the prosecution, the court cannot
refuse to try the case in the constitutional method because
it desires to let the defendant go free.
Suggested analogies from procedure in civil cases are
not helpful. When courts of law refuse to sustain alleged
causes of action which grow out of illegal schemes, the
applicable law itself denies the right to recover. Where
courts of equity refuse equitable relief because complainants come with unclean hands, they are administering the
principles of equitable jurisprudence governing equitable
rights. But in a criminal prosecution, the statute defining
the offense is necessarily the law of the case.
To construe statutes so as to avoid absurd or glaringly
unjust results, foreign to the legislative purpose, is, as we
have seen, a traditional and appropriate function of the
courts. Judicial nullification of statutes, admittedly valid
and applicable, has, happily, no place in our system. The
Congress by legislation can always, if it desires, alter the
effect of judicial construction of statutes. We conceive it
to be our duty to construe the statute here in question
reasonably, and we hold that it is beyond our prerogative
to give the statute an unreasonable construction, con-fessedly contrary to public policy, and then to decline to
enforce it.
The conclusion we have reached upon these grounds
carries its own limitation. We are dealing with a statu-

SORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
435

Opinion of the Court.

tory prohibition and we are simply concerned to ascertain
whether in the light of a plain public policy and of the
proper administration of justice, conduct induced as stated
should be deemed to be within that prohibition. We have
no occasion to consider hypothetical cases of crimes so
heinous or revolting that the applicable law would admit
of no exceptions. No such situation is presented here.
The question in each case must be determined by the
scope of the law considered in the light of what may fairly
be deemed to be its object.
Objections to the defense of entrapment are also urged
upon practical grounds. But considerations of mere convenience must yield to the essential demands of justice.
The argument is pressed that if the defense is available it
will lead to the introduction of issues of a collateral character relating to the activities of the officials of the Government and to the conduct and purposes of the defendant
previous to the alleged offense. For the defense of entrapment is not simply that the particular act was committed at the instance of government officials. That is
often the case where the proper action of these officials
leads to the revelation of criminal enterprises. Grimm v.
United States, s pra. The predisposition and criminal
design of the defendant are relevant. But the issues
raised and the. evidence adduced must be pertinent to the
controlling question whether the defendant is a person
otherwise innocent whom the Government is seeking to
punish for an alleged offense which is the product of the
creative activity of its own officials. If that is the fact,
common justice requires that the accused be permitted to
prove it. The Government in such a case is in no position to object to evidence of the activities of its representatives in relation to the accused, and if the defendant seeks
acquittal by reason. of entrapment he cannot contplain of
an appropriate and searching inquiry into his own conduct
and predisposition as bearing upon that issue. If in con-

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court

287 U.S.

sequence he suffers a disadvantage, he has brought it upon
himself by reason of the nature of the defense.
What has been said indicates the answer to the contention of the Government that the defense of entrapment
must be pleaded in bar to further proceedings under the indictment and cannot be raised under the plea of not
guilty. This contention presupposes that the defense is
available to the accused and relates only to the manner in
which it shall be presented. The Government considers
the defense as analogous to a plea of pardon or of autrefo4
convict or autrefoisacquit. It is assumed that the accused
is not denying his .guilt but is setting up special facts
in bar upon which he relies regardless of his guilt or innocence of the crime charged. This, as we have seen, is
a misconception. The defense is available, not in the
view that the accused though guilty may go free, but
that t he Government cannot be permitted to contend that
he is guilty of a crime where the government officials are
the instigators of his conduct. The federal courts in sustaining the defense in such circumstances have proceeded
in the view that the.defendant is not guilty. The practice
of requiring a plea in bar -has not obtained. Fundamentally, the question is whether the defense, if the facts bear
it out, takes the case out of the purview of the statute
because it cannot be supposed that the Congress intended
that the letter of its enactment should be used to support such a gross perversion of its purpose.
We are of the opinion that upon the evidence produced
in the instant case the defense of entrapment was available and that the trial court was in error in holding that
as a matter of law there was no entrapment and in refusing to sibmit the issue to -the jury.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.

SORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
435

Opinion of ROBERTS,. J.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of

the opinion that the

judgment below should be affirmed.
Separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS.
The facts set forth in the court's opinion establish that
a prohibition enforcement officer instigated the commission of the crime charged. The courts below held that
the showing was insufficient, as matter of law; to sustain
the claim of entrapment, and that the jury were properly
instructed to ignore that defense in their consideration. of
the case. A conviction resulted. The Government maintains that the issue of entrapment is not triable under
the plea of not guilty, but should be raised by plea in bar
or be adjudicated in some manner by the court rather than
by the jury, and as the trial court properly decided the
question, the record presents no reversible error. I think,
however, the judgment should be reversed, but for reasons
and upon grounds other than those stated in the opinion
of the court.
Of late the term "entrapment" has been adopted by
the courts to signify .instigation of crime by officers of
government. The cases in *hich such incitement has been
recognized as a defense have grown to an amazing total.'
The increasing frequency of the assertion that the defendant was entrapped is doubtless due to the creation by
statute of many new crimes, (e. g., sale and transportation
of liquor and narcotics) and the correlative establishment
of special enforcement bodies for the detection and panishment of offenders. The efforts of members of these
forces, to obtain arrests and convictions have too often
been marked by reprehensible methods.
Society is at war with the criminal classes, .and courts
have uniformly held that in waging tl~is warfare the forces
of prevention and detection may use traps, decoys, and
'See O'Brien v. United States, 51 F. (2d) 674, footnote 1, p. 678.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

287 U.S.

deception to obtain evidence of the commission of crime.
Resort to such means does not render an indictment thereafter found a nullity nor call for the exclusion of evidence
so procured.2 But the defense here asserted involves more
than obtaining evidence by artifice or deception. Entrapment is the conception and planning of an offense by an
officer, and his procurement.of its commission by one who
would not have perpetrated it except for the trickery,
persuasion, or fraud of the officer. Federal and state
cowrts have held that substantial proof of entrapment as
thus defined calls for the submission of the issue to the
jiiry and warrants an acquittal. The reasons assigned hi
support of this procedure have not been uniform. Thus it
has been held that the acts of its officers estop the government to prove the offense. The result has also been
justified by the mere statement of the rule that whera entrapment is proved the defendant is not guilty of the
crime charged. Often the defense has been permitted upon
grounds of public policy, which the courts formulate by
saying they will not permit their process to be used in aid
of a scheme for the actual creation of a crime by those
whose duty is to deter its commission.
This court has adverted to the doctrine,3 but has not
heretofore had occasion to determine its validity, the basis
on which it should rest, or the procedure to be followed
when it is involved. The present case affords the opportunity to settle these matters as respects the administration of the federal criminal law.
There is common agreement that where a law officer envisages a crime, plans it, and activates its commission by
one not theretofore intending its perpetration, for the sole
purpose of obtaining a victim through indictment, conviction and sentence, the consummation of so revolting a plan
'Compare Olmstead v. United States, 277 U. S. 438.
*Casey v. United States, 276 U. S. 413.

SORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
435

Opinion of

ROBERTS, J,

ought not to be permitted by'any self-respecting tribunal.
Equally true is this whether the offense is one at common
law or merely a creature of statute. Public policy forbids
such sacrifice of decency. The enforcement of this policy
calls upon the court, in every instance where alleged entrapment of a defendant is brought to its notice, to ascertain the facts, to appraise their effect upon the administration of justice, and to make such order with respect to
the further prosecution of the cause as the circumstances
require.
This view calls for no distinction between crimes mala
in se and statutory offenses of lesser gravity; requires no
statutory construction, and attributes no merit to a guilty
defendant; but frankly recognizes the true foundation of
the doctrine in the public policy which protects the purity
of government and its processes. Always the courts refuse their aid in civil cases to the perpetration and consummation of an illegal scheme. Invariably they. hold a
civil action must be abated if its basis is violation of the
decencies of life, disregard of the rules, statutory or common law, which formulate the ethics of men's relations to
each other. Neither courts of equity nor those administering legal remedies tolerate the use of their process to
consummate a wrong." The doctrine of entrapment in
criminal law is the analogue of the same rule applied in
civil proceedings. And this is the real basis of the decisions approving the defense of entrapment, though in
statement the rule is cloaked under a declaration that the
government is estopped or the defendant has n6t been
proved guilty.
A new method of rationalizing the defense is now asserted. This is to construe the act creating the offense by
'See Hannay v. Eve, 3 Cranch 242, 247; Bank of United States v.
Owens, 2 Pet. 527, 538; Bartle v. Nutt, 4 Pet. 184, 188; Hanauer v.
Doane, 12 Wall. 342, 349; Trist v. Child,21 Wall, 441, 448; Hazelton

v. Sheckells, 202 U. S. 71; Crocker v. United States, 240 U. S. 74, 78.

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

287 I.S.

reAding in a condition or proviso that if the offender shall
have been entrapped into crime the law shall not apply to
him. So, it is said, the true intent of the legislature will
be effectuated. This seems a strained and unwarranted
construction of the statute; and amounts, in fact, to judicial amendment. It is not merely broad construction, but
addition of an element not contained in the legislation.
The constituents of the offense are enumerated by the
statute. If we assume the defendant to have been a person of upright purposes, law abiding, and not prone to
crime,-induced agaihst his own will and better -judgment
to become the instrument of the criminal purpose of another,-his action, so induced, none the less falls within
the letter of the law and renders him amenable to its
penalties. Viewed in its true light entrapment is not a
*defense to him; his act, coupled with his intent to do the
act, brings him within the definition of the law; he has no
rights or equities by reason of his entrapment. It cannot
truly be said that entrapment excuses him or contradicts
thd obvious fact of his commission of the offense. We
cannot escape this conclusion by saying that where need
arises the statute will be read as containing an implicit
condition that it shall not apply in the case of entrapment.
The effect of such construction is to add to the words of
the statute a proviso which gives to the defendant a double
defense under his plea of not guilty, namely, (a) that what
he did does not fall within the definition of the statute,
and (b) entrapment. This amounts to saying that one
who with full intent commits the act defined by law as an
offense is nevertheless by virtue of the unspoken and im-:
plied mandate of the statute to be adjudged not guilty by
reason of someone's else improper conduct. It is merely
to adopt a form of words to justify action which ought to
be based on fhe inherent right of the court not to be made
the instrument of wrong.
It is said that this case warrants such a construction of
the applicable act,-but that the question whether a similar

SORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
435

457

Opinion of RoBErS, J.

construction will be required'in the case of other or more
serious crimes is not before the court. Thus no guide or
rule is announced as to when a statute shall be read as
excluding a case of entrapment; and no principle of statutory construction is suggested which would enable us to
say that it is excluded by some statutes and not by others.
The doctrine rests, rather, on a fundamental rule of
public policy. The -protection of its own functions and
the preservation of the purity of its owh temple belongs
only to the court. It is the province of the court and of
the court alone to protect itself and the government from
such prostitution of the criminal law. The violation of
the principles of justice by the entrapment of the unwary
into crime should be dealt with by the court no matter by
whom or at what stage of the proceedings the facts are
brought to its attention.' Quite properly it may discharge
the prisoner upon'- a writ of habeas corpus.' Equally well
may it quash the indictment or entertain and try a plea
in bar.7 But its powers do not end there. Proof of entrapment, at any stage of the case, requires the court to stop
the prosecution, direct that the indictment be quashed,.
and the defendant set at liberty.8 If in doubt as to the
facts it may submit the issue of entrapment to a jury for
advice. But whatever may be the finding upon such submission the power and the duty to act remain with the
court and not with the jury.
'Compare Gambino v. United States, 275 U. S. 310, 319.
'See United States ex rel. Hassell v. Mathues, 22 F. (2d) 979.
"Compare United States v. Pappagoda,288 Fed. 214; Spring Drug
Co. v. United States, 12 F. (2d) 852.
'In United States v. Echols, 253 Fed. 862, upon the tender of a
plea of guilty, the court of its own motion examined the prisoner
and the officers concerned in his arrest; and being satisfied'that these
officers had instigated the crime, declared that public policy required
that the plea be refused and the case dismissed. In United States v.
Healy, 202 Fed. 349, a judgment and sentence were set aside and
the defendant discharged upon the court's ascertaining that the conviction was procured by entrapment.

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of ROBERTS, J.

287 U.S.

Such action does not grant immunity to a guilty defendant. But to afford him as fiis right a defense founded
not on the statute, but on the court's view of what the.
legislature is assumed to have meant, is to grant him
.unwarranted immunity. If the court may construe an
act of Congress so as to create a defense for one whose
guilt the act pronounces, no reason is apparent why the
same statute may not be modified by a similar process of
construction as to the penalty prescribed. But it is settled
that this-may not be done. Ex parte United States, 242
U. S. 27. The broad distinction between the -refusal to
lend the aid of the court's own processes to the consummation of a wrong and the attempt to modify by judicial
legislation the mandate of the statute as to the punishment to be imposed after trial and conviction is so obvious
as not to need discussion.
.Recognition of the defense of entrapment as belonging
to the defendant and as raising an issue for decision by
the jury called to try him upon plea of the general issue,
results in the trial of a false issue wholly outside the true
rule which should be applied by the courts. It has been
generally held, where the defendant has proved an entrapment, it is permissible for the government to show in
rebuttal that the officer guilty of incitement of the crime
had reasonable cause to believe the defendant was a person disposed- to commit the offense. This procedure is
approved by the opinion of the court. The proof received
in rebuttal usually.amounts to no more than that the
defendant had a bad reputation, or that he had been previously convicted. Is the statute upon which the indictment is based to be further construed as removing the
defense of entrapment from such a defendant?
Whatever may be the demerits of the defendant or his
previous infractions of law these will not justify the Instigation and creati6in of a new crime, as a means to
reach him and p'unish him for his past misdemeanors. He
has committed the crime in question, but, by supposition,

JOHNSON &-HIGGINS v. UNITED STATES. 459
435

Syllabus.

only because of instigation and inducement by a government officer. To say that such conduct by an official of
government is condoned and rendered innocuous by'the
fact that the defendant had a bad reputation or had previously, transgressed is wholly to disregard the reason for
refusing the processes of the court to consummate an abhorrent transaction. It is to discard the basis of the doctrine and in effect to weigh the equities as between the
government and the defendant when there are in truth
no equities belonging to the latter, and when the rule of
action cannot rest on any estimate of the good which
may come of the conviction of the-offender by foul means.
The accepted procedure, in effect, pivots conviction in such
cases, not on the commission of the crime charged, but
on the prior reputation or some former act or acts of the
defendant not mentioned in the indictment.
The applicable principle is that courts must be closed
to the trial of a crime instigated by the government's own
agents. No other issue, no comparison of equities as between the guilty official and the guilty defendant, has
any place in the enforcement of this overruling principle
of public policy.
The judgment should be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court with instructions to quash
the indictment and discharge the defendant.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS
in this opinion.

and MR. JUSTICE STONE concur

JOHNSON & HIGGINS OF CALIFORNIA v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 166.

Argued December 9, 1932.-Decided December 19, 1932.

Cargo, while being carried free on an Army transport, was damaged
by water used to put out a fire. Insurers of the cargo having
claimed contribution from the Government, and the Judge Advocate

