206

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Petitioner.

287 U.S.

SGRO v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 55.

Argued October 10, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

1. The provisions of the Fourth Amendment relative to search warrants, and of legislation regulating that process, should be liberally
construed in favor of the individual. P. 210.
2. Under § 25 of the National Prohibition Act and the provisions
of the Act of June 15, 1917 (Espionage Act), to which that section refers, a warrant to search for intoxicating liquor becomes
void at the expiration of ten days from the date of its issuance
and can not then be revived by the magistrate merely by redating
and reissuing it solely on the basis of the affidavit upon which it
was issued originally. Pp. 210, et seq.
3. The issue of a new warrant is a new proceeding and must be
supported by proof that probable cause then exists.* P. 211.
54 F. (2d) 1083, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 286 U. S. 539, to review the affirmance of

a judgment on conviction under the Prohibition Act.
Evidence seized under a search warrant was used against
the defendant at the trial after a petition for its return
to him, on the ground that the search was illegal, had
been made and overruled.
Mr. Irving K. Baxter for petitioner,
The ruling that, after the lapse of ten days without.its
execution, the commissioner may by changing the date
extend the search warrant, is in direct conflict with the
Act of June 15, 1917, c. 30, Title XI, § 11, 40 Stat. 229.
This would be substantially to repeal the statute.
Since there was no proof of probable cause before the
commissioner at the time, such redating or reissuing is in
direct violation of the Fourth Amendment.
A search warrant is the most drastic weapon known to
the law. Strict compliance with the Constitution and

SGRO v. UNITED STATES.
206

Argument for the United States.

statutes respecting search warrants, is necessary, to safeguard the rights of citizenship.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, and Messrs. John J. Byrne and
W. MarvinSmith were on the brief, for the United States.
The act of the Commissioner in changing the date and
reissuing the warrant was, in effect, the issuance of a new
warrant.
The only doubt that can arise respecting the validity
of the new warrant would be whether probable cause had
ceased to exist because twenty-one days elapsed between
the issuance of the old and the new.
This question is unaffected by the requirement of. § .11
of the Espionage Act that the warrant. must be executed
within ten days after its issue. This was obviously designed to prevent undue delay in the execution of the
warrant and to require, after, the expiration of the statutory period, a new warrant based upon a new finding by
a judge or commissioner that probable cause then existed
in order to justify a search. But it has been often held,
in effect, that Congress did not intend by this provision
to prescribe ten days as' the maximum period during
which the condition shown by the affidavit as justifying
a search could be presumed to continue. United States v.
McKay, 2.F. (2d) 257; United States v. Fitzmauri.e, 45
F. (2d) 133; United Stat~s v. Callahan, 17 F. (2d)'937;
Hawker v. Queck, 1 F. (2d) 77, clrt. den., 266 U. S, 621;
Hefferman v. United States, 50 F. (2d) 554; Dandrea v.
United States, 7 F. (2d) 861,
'In the case at bar, the affidavit alleged the purchase of
beer in a hotel from the person in charge on June 29, 1926.
Assuming that this showed probable cause for belief that,
intoxicating liquor was possessed on the premises on July
6, 1926, when the original warrant issued, we submit that
it would not be unreasonable to infer that liquor was pos-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

sessed there three weeks later, when the new warrant
issued.
The affidavit sufficed to show probable cause.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHEs delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The petitioner was charged with violating the National
Prohibition Act by possessing and selling intoxicating
liquor at the Bouckville Hotel. The District Court denied.
his request to restrain the use of evidence procured by
federal officers while searching the hotel under a warrant
alleged to be invalid. This evidence was introduced at
the trial over his objection. Ho was found guilty and
the judgment against him was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 154 F. (2d) 1083.] This Court
granted certiorari. The only question presented is as to
the validity of the warrant.
Subject to petitioner's contention, the parties entered
into a stipulation of facts which so far as pertinent to
the question is as follows:
"That on or about the sixth day of July, 1926, William Arthur, United States Commissioner, at Rome, New
York, issued a search warrant based upon an affidavit
introduced in evidence in this case, of C. G. Dodd, in
which Dodd swore that he made a purchase of beer of
the defendant; that on the twenty-seventh day of July,
1926, the said search warrant not having been executed
in the interim and ten days from the date of the search
warrant having expired, the search warrant was taken
by the prohibition agents to whom it was directed back
to the commissiofier -and by him, or by someone in his
office under his direction and control, the date of the
search warrant was changed from July sixth to July
twenty-seventh, 1926, and thus reissued; that acting
under the color of such search warrant," the search in
question was made.

SGRO v. UNITED STATES.
206

209

Opinion of the Court.

The record also contains a certificate by the United
States Commissioner, under date of December 20, 1926, as

follows:
"I hereby certify that the complaint or affidavit, upon
which the search warrant was issued in the above entitled
matter, was made before me on the 6th day of July, 1926.
That the search warrant was issued on or about said 6th
day of July, 1926, but was not executed within the ten
days prescribed by statute, and was returned to me by
Albert Vandiver, Prohibition Agent in Charge of the
Syracus3 office requesting that same be reissued or-redated, and my docket book shows that same was reissued
on the 27th day of July, 1926, and mailed back to said
Vandiver."
The National Prohibition Act, § 25, 41 Stat. 305, 315,
U. S. C., Tit. 27, § 39, authorizes the issue of warrants to
search for intoxicating liquors as provided in Title XI of
the Act of June 15, 1917, 40 Stat. 228.1 Section 11 of the
last mentioned Act has the following requirement:
The following are among the provisions of the Act of June 15, 1917,
Tit. XI,-40 Stat. 228:
"Sec. 3. A search warrant can not be issued but upon probable
cause, supported by affidavit, naming or describing the person and
particularly describing the property and the place to be searched.
"Sec. 4. The judge or commissioner must, before issuing the warrant, examine on oath the complainant and any witness he may produce, and require their affidavits or take their depositions in writing
and cause them to be subscribed by the parties making them.
"Sec. 5. The affidavits or depositions must set forth the facts
tending to establish the grounds of the application or probable cause
for believing that they exist.
"Se6. 6. If the judge or commissioner is thereupon satisfied of the
existence of the grounds of the application or that there is probable
cause to believe their existence, he must issue a search warrant signed
by him with his name of office, to a civil officer of the United States
duly auithorized to enforce or assist in enforcing any law thereof, or
to a person so duly authorized by the President of the United States,
stating the particular grounds or probable cause for its issue and the

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

"SEC. 11. A search warrant must be executed and returned to the judge or commissioner who issued it within
ten days after its date; after the expiration of this time
the warrant, unless executed, is void."
As the original warrant was issued on July sixth and
was not executed within ten days, it became void under
this explicit provision. But the Government contends
that the warrant could be redated and reissued, and that
in this form it should be regarded as a new warrant under
which the search could lawfully be made.
With this argument we cannot agree. The proceeding
by search warrant is a drastic one. Its abuse led to the
adoption of the Fourth Amendment, and this, together
with legislation regulating the process, should be liberally
construed in favor of the individual. Boyd v. United
States, 116 U. S. 616, 635; Byars v. United States, 273
U. S. 28, 32; Marron v. United States, 275 U. S. 192, 196,
197; United States v. Lefkowitz, 285 U. S. 452, 464. The
statute requires that the judge or commissioner issuing a
search warrant for intoxicating liquors must be satisfied
"of the existence of the grounds of the application or that
there is probable cause to believe their existence." Act of
June 15, 1917, Tit. XI, § 6. He must take proof to that
end. Id., §§ 4, 5. The warrant must state "the particular grounds or probable cause for its issue and the
names of the persons whose affidavits have been taken in
support thereof." Id., § 6. While the statute does not
fix the time within which proof of probable cause must be
taken by the judge or commissioner, it is manifest that
the proof must be of facts so closely related to the time of
the issue of the warrant as to justify a finding of probable
cause at that time. Whether the proof meets this test
names of the persons whose affidavits have been taken in support
thereof, and commanding him forthwith to search the person or place
named, for the property specified, and to bring it before the judge
or commissioner."

SGRO v. UNITED STATES.
206

Opinion of the Court.

must be determined by the circumstances of each case.
It is in the light of the requirement that probable cause
must properly appear when the warrant issues that we
must read the provision which in explicit terms makes a
warrant void unless executed within ten days after its
date. That period marks the permitted duration of the
proceeding in which the warrant is issued, There is no
provision which authorizes the commissioner to extend its
life or to revive it.
The issue of a second warrant is essentially a new proceeding which must have adequate support. The fact
that it is a second warrant gives the commissioner no
privilege to dispense with the statutory conditions.
These cnnot be escaped by describing the action as a
reissue.' If the warrant is the old one, sought to be revived, the proceeding is a nullity, and if it is a new warrant, the commissioner must act accordingly. The statute
in terms requires him before issuing the warrant to take
proof of probable cause. This he must do by examining
on oath the complainant and his witness and requiring
their affidavits or depositions. The proof supplied must
have appropriate relation to the application for the new
warrant and must speak as of the time of the issue of
that warrant. The commissioner has no authority to rely
on affidavits which have sole relation to a different time
and have not been brought down to date or supplemented
so that they can be deemed to disclose grounds existing
when the new- warrant is issued. The new warrant must
rest upon a proper finding and statement by the com-.
missioner that probable cause then exists. That determination, as of that time, cannot be left to mere inference or conjecture. The purpose of the statute would be
thwarted if by the simple expedient of redating, without
more, the time for the execution of a warrant could be
extended.

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of McREYNOLDS, J.

287 U.S.

Applying these principles to the instant case, the warrant cannot be sustained. The proceeding for the warrant issued on July sixth had terminated and tlat warrant was dead. On the new application of July twentyseventh the commissioner took no proof to show that
probable cause then existed and. he made no finding of
probable cause at that time. It is impossible by any
process of reasoning to obscure or alter what he actually
did. He simply changed the date of the old warrant and
it was "thus reissued." Such action was unauthorized.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUsTIcE STONE, and MR. JusTIcE CARDozo think that
the Commissioner, by redating the warrant, in effect,
issued a new warrant, which was adequately supported by
facts disclosed in the affidavit, then before him, on which
the first warrant had been issued.
Separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS.

I concur in the conclusion that the judgment below
should be reversed.
An information charged that Petitioner Sgro had violated the National Prohibition Act by keeping intoxicating liquor at an hotel. In due time and manner he unsuccessfully asked the District Court to prohibit the use of
all evidence procured by federal officers while searchirig the
hotel under color of a warrant alleged to be invalid. At
the-trial this evidence was introduced over his objection.
A verdict of guilty followed; judgment thereon was affirmn~ed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. If the challenged
search warrant was invalid, this judgment must be
reversed.
By stipulation it appears"That on or about the sixth day of July, 1926, William
Arthur, United States Commissioner, at Rome, New York,
issued a search warrant based upon an affidavit introduced
in evidence in this case, of C. G. Dodd, in which Dodd

SGRO v. UNITED STATES.
206

Opinion of McRrmous, J.

swore that he made a purchase of beer of the defencjant;
that, on the twenty-seventh day of July, 1926, the said
search warrant not having been executed in the interim
and ten days from the date of the search warrant having
expired, the search warrant was taken by the prohibition
agents to whom it was directed back to the commissioner
and by him, or by someone in his office under his direction and control, the date of the search warrant was
changed from luly sixth to July twenty-seventh, 1926,
and thus reissued; that acting under the color of such
search warrant, Prohibition Agents Henry E. March, Bernard J. Dwyer and B. G. Silvernail went to the premises
described in the search warrant, namely the Bouckville
Hotel, qf which the defendant is the proprietor, at Bouckville, Nhw York, in the Northern District of New York,
and there, ihe defendant being present, searched the
premises and found one pint of gin, a pint of beer in the
bar room of the said premises, and also found in the cellar
of said premises under said bar room three and a half
barrels of liquid, .... "
The Fourth Amendment provides---" The right of the
people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and
effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall
not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon
probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and
particularly describing the place to be searched, and the
persons or things to be seized."
The -National Prohibition Act, § 25, 41 Stat. 305, 315,
U. S.'C. A., Title 27, § 39, authorizes the issuance of warrants to search for intoxicating liquors under the circumstances specified by Title XI, Public Laws No. 24, 65th
Congress (Espionage Act), approved June 15, 1917, 40
Stat. 228. The following are among the provisions of the
latter Act"Sec. 2. A search warrant may be issued under this
title upon either of the following grounds:

214

OCTOBER TERI, 1932.
Opinion of ICREYXOLDS, J.

287 U.S.

"3. When the property, or any paper, is possessed, controlled, or used in violation of section twenty-two of this
title; in which case it may be taken on the warrant from
the person violating said section, or from any person in
whose possession it may be, or from any'house or other
place in which it is concealed.
"Sec. 3. A search warrant can not be issued but upon
probable cause, supported by affidavit, naming or describing the person and particularly describing the property
and the place to be searched.
"Sec. 4. The judge or commissioner must, before issuing the warrant, examine on oath the complainant and
any witness he may produce, and require their affidavits
or take their depositions in writing and cause them to be
subscribed by the parties making them.
"See. 5. The affidavits or depositions must set forth
the facts tending to establish the grounds of the application or probable cause for believing, that they exist.
Sec. 6. Tf the judge or conmissioner is thereupon
satisfied of the existence of the grounds of the application
or that there is probable cause to believe their existence,
he must issue a search warrant, signed by him with his
name of office, to a civil officer of the United States duly
authorized to enforce or assist in enforcing any law thereof, or to a person so duly authorized by the President of
the United States, stating the particular grounds or probable cause for its issue and the names of the persons whose
affidavits have been taken in support thereof, and commanding him forthwith to search the person or place
named, for the property specified, and to bring it before
the judge or commissioner.
"Sec. 11. A search warrant must be executed and returned to the judge or commissioner who issued it within
ten days after its date; after the expiration of this time
the warrant, unless executed, is void."

SGRO v. UNITED STATES.
206

215

Opinion of McRL-YNOLDS, J.

Counsel for the United States submit that while under
the Espionage Act (§ 11) a search warrant not executed
within ten days becomes invalid, the statute does not
inhibit utilization of an outlawed warrant as a mere
form or blank when preparing a new one based upon the
original affidavit; that here the act of the Commissioner
in changing the date upon the July sixth warrant and
then reissuing it under date of July twenty-seventh was
to all intents and purposes the issuing of an entirely new
and valid warrant supported by the Dodd affidavit of July
sixth. This argument is pertinent and should be
answered.
It fairly may be assumed that the Commissioner who
issued the warrant on July twenty-seventh relied upon the
original (July sixth) affidavit which remained before him;
and if this was permissible, the new warrant, of course,
was good-just as good as if no earlier one had been issued
upon the same affidavit. But if the original affidavit had
become stale by the passage of time, then the new warrant
lacked adequate support and was invalid. Manifestly, it
is important that there should be some definite rule by
which to determine when such an affidavit is impotent;
otherwise, the matter is left at large--dependent upon
varying views of reasonableness.
The proceeding by search warrant is a drastic one. Its
abuse led to the adoption of the Fourth Amendment, and
this, together with legislation regulating such process,
should be liberally construed in favor of the individual.
Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 635; Adams v. New
York, 192 U. S. 585; Byars v. United States, 273 U. S.
28; Marronv. United States, 275 U. S. 192, 196, 197.
The statutes require that a warrant to search for intoxicating liquors shall rest upon duly established probable cause to believe that at the time it issues the liquor is
unlawfully possessed. The supporting affidavit must re-

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

late to facts. which tend to show an unlawful situation
actually or probably existing at the moment. Section .11,
Espionage Act, declares that after ten days a warrant not
fully executed shall be void. That is the prescribed period during which the circumstances existing when it
issued can be supposed to continue.
Considering the whole statute, and especially the evident purpose of C6figress to protect against unnecessary
delays and uncertainties, I think no search warrant should
issue upon an affidavit more than ten days old. After
attaining that age statements therein cannot properly
indicate presently existing conditions. In practice the
contrary-view would permit results which the prescribed
ten days' limitation was intended to prevent. The disclosed unlawful situation is not presumed to continue
more than ten days after a wairant issues and it seems
entirely reasonable to conclude that Congress did not intend to sanction a less rigid limitation upon the supporting affidavit.
It follows that the Commissioner's warrant of July
twenty-seventh was invalid, even if it be assumed that
he then actually relied upon the original supporting affidavit dated three weeks earlier.
BURNS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 378.

Argued November 15, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

Defendant, while serving a prison sentence under one count of an
indictment and while at the same time on probation as to an
independent sentence imposed under another count, was guilty of
repeated abuses of a liberty to leave the jail, granted to him for
a particular purpose. Upon a summary hearing before the District Judge, the facts of these abuses were proved by witnesses

