BURNET v. HARMEL.

103

Syllabus.

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE,v. HARMEL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT oF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 26. Argued October 20, 21, 1932.-Decided November 7, 1932.
1. The income received by the lessor from an oil and gas lease,
whether by way of an initial bonus or as royalties on the oil 'and
gas subsequently produced by the lessee, was taxable, under the
Revenue Act of 1924, not as gain from the "sale" of capital assets,
but as ordinary income. Pp. 105, 112.
2. In prescriing a lower rate upon gain derived from sale of capital
assets than upon income generally, the object of the statute was
to relieve taxpayers from hardships resulting when long-time increases of capital value are taxed in the year of their realization
at high surtax rates, and to remove the deterrent effect of those
hardships on conversions of capital investments. P. 106.
3. Taxation of the lessor's receipts from an oil and gas lease, as income, does not ordinarily result in this hardship, aimed at 13y the
statute; nor, would such a lease be generally described ad a "sale"
of the mineral content of the soil, tsing the term either in its technical sense or as commonly understood. Pp. 106-107.
4. The statute should be construed in the light of earlier rulings of
this Court classing payments under mining leases as income, like
payments of rent. P. 108.
5. Although by the law of the State where the land is situate the
execution of an oil and gas lease is deemed to pass immediately to
the lessee the title to the oil and gas, in place, the bonus payments
are not therefore to be regarded as receipts from a sale of capital
assets within the meaning of the Revenue'Act, supra. Group No.

1 Oil Corp. v. Bass, 283 U. S. 279, distinguished. P. 109.
6. A federal income tax act is an exercise of a plenary power of
Congress and is to be given a uniform construction of nation-wide
application except in so far as Congress, expressly or by necessary
implication, makes its operation dependent on state law. P. 110.
7. Section 208 of the Revenue Act of 1924 neither says nor implies
that the determination of "gain from the sale or exchange of
capital assets" is to be controlled by state law. In determining
the applicability of the section to payments received under an oil
and gas lease, the economic consequences of the leases are to be

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

considered rather than any particular characterization of the payments in the local law. As the present leases do not differ in this
respect from those where title to the oil and gas is said to pass
only on severance by the lessee, it is immaterial that under the
local law title is deemed to pasg before severance. P. 110.
8. In computing income of the lessor from an oil and gas lease, the
depletion allowance of the Revenue Act of 1924, § 214a (9) is
applicable to bonus payments. Pp. 111-112.
56 F. (2d) 153, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 286 U. S. 536, to review the reversal of an
order of the Board of Tax Appeals, 19 B. T. A. 376, which
had sustained a deficiency assessment with respect to the
respondent's income from oil and gas leases.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and M1"essrs. Whitney North Seymour, Sewall Key, and A. H. Conner were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Messrs. Robert Ash and A. H. Britain,with whom Mr.
Harry C. Weeks was on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Walter E. Barton, by leave of Court, filed a brief
as amicus curiae.
MR. JusTICE STOP, delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent, the owner in fee of Texas oil lands, executed oil and gas leases of the lands for three years and
as long thereafter as oil or gas should be produced from
them by the lessee, in return for bonus payments aggregating $57,000 in cash, and. stipulated royalties, measured
by the production of oil and gas by the lessee. In making
his income tax returns under the Revenue Act of 1924
for the years 1924 and 1925, respondent reported the cash
payments as gain from a sale of capital assets, taxable
under the applicable section of the statute at a lower rate
than other income. The Commissioner treated the pay-

BURNET v. HARMEL.
103

Opinion of the Court.

ments as ordinary income taxed at the higher rate, and
gave respondent notice of assessment for the deficiency.
The order of the Board of Tax Appeals upholding the
assessment, 19 B. T. A. 376, was reversed by the Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, 56 F.. (2d) 153, following its earlier decision in Ferguson v. Commissioner, 45
F. (2d) 573. It was held that because Texas law, unlike
that of other states, regards an oil and gas lease as a
present sale of the oil and gas in place, the gain resulting
from the cash payment received as consideration for the
leases was taxable only as gain from the sale of capital
assets. This Court granted certiorari, 286 U. S. 536, to
resolve a conflict of the decision below with that of the
Court of Claims, under corresponding provisions of the
Revenue Act of 1921, in Hirschi v. United States, 67 Ct.
Cls. 637.
The Revenue Act of 1924, c. 234, 43 Stat. 262, like
that of 1921, c. 136, 42 Stat. 232, taxed certain income derived from capital gains at a lower rate than other income. By § 208 (a) (1) "The term 'capital gain'
means taxable gain from the sale or exchange of capital
assets consummated after December 31, 1921." By-§ 208
(a) (8) "capital assets" means property held by the taxpayer for more than two years but does not include property "which would properly be included in the inventory
of the taxpayer if on hand at the close of the taxable
year, or property held by the taxpayer primarily for sale
in the course of his trade or business." Related provisions of the section define "capital loss" and '" capital
deductions" which, in some circumstances, are allowed
as deductions frorA capital gain in order to arrive at the
net gain taxed at the' lower rate. The only question
presented here is whether the bonus payments to the
respondent, after allowed deductions, if any, are "gain
from the sale or exchange of capital assets" within the
meaning of the taxing act.

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

Before the Act of 1921, gains realized from the sale of
property were taxed at the same rates as other income,
with the result that capital gains, often accruing over long
periods of time, were taxed in the year of realization at
the high rates resulting from their inclusion in the higher
surtax brackets. The provisions of the 1921 revenue act
for taxing capital gains at a lower rate, reenacted in 1924
without material chinge, were adopted to relieve the taxpayer from these excessive tax burdens on gains resulting
from a conversion of capital investments, and to remove
the deterrent effect of those burdens on such conversions.
House Report No. 350, Ways and Means Committee, 67th
Cong., 1st Sess. on the Revenue Bill of 1921, p. 10; see
Alexander v. King, 46 F. (2d) 235.
It is an incident of every oil and gas lease, where production operations are carried on by the lessee, that the
ownlership of the oil and gas passes from the lessor to the
lessee at some time and the lessor is compensated by the
payments made by the lessee for the rights and privileges
which he acquires under the lease.. But notwithstanding
this incidental transfer of ownership, it is evident that the
taxation of the receipts of the lessor as income does not
ordinarily produce the kind of hardship aimed at by the
capital gains provision of the taxing act. Oil and gas may
or may not be present in the leased premises, and may or
may not be found by the lessee. If found, their abstraction from the soil is a time-consuming operation and the
payments made by the lessee to the lessor do not normally
become payable as the result of a single transaction within
the taxable year, as in the case of a sale of property. The
payment of an iiitial bonus alters the character of the
transactioti no more than an unusually large rental for the
first year 'alters ,the character of any other lease, and the
taxation of the one as ordinary income does not act as a
deterrent upon, conversion of capital assets, any more than
the taxation of. the other.

BURNET v. HARMEL.
103

Opinion of the Court.

Moreover, the statute speaks of a-" sale," and these
leases would not generally be described as a "sale" of the
mineral. content of the soil, using the term either in its
technical sense or as it is commonly understood. Nor
would the payments made by lessee to lessor generally
be denominated the purchase price of the oil and gas.
By virtue of the lease, the lessee acquires the privilege of
exploiting the land for the production of oil and gas for
a prescribed period; he may explore, drill, and produce oil
and gas if found. Such operations with respect to amine
have been said to resemble a manufacturing business carried on by the use of the soil, to which the passing of title
of the minerals is but an ificident, rather than a sale of
the land or of any interest in it or in its mineral content.
Stratton's Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, 414,
415; see Von Baumbach v. Sargent Land Co., 242 U. S.
503, 521.
Long before the enactment of the capital gains provision in the 1921 Revenue Act, this Court had to determine
whether'a mining lease was to be regarded as a sale. In
interpreting the Corporation Tax Law -of 1909, it 'had
occasion to consider the nature*of the proceeds derived
by the owner of mineral land from his own mining
operations or from payments made to him by the lessee
under a mining lease. That Act imposed an excise tax
on corporations, measured by their income. Unlike the
later revenue acts, it made no provision for a depletion
allowance to be deducted from the proceeds of mining in
order to arrive at the statutory income. It was argued
that since the net result of the mining operation is a conversion of capital investment as upon a sale, the money
received by the corporate owner or lessor, being its capital
in a changed form, could not rightly be deemed to be income. But that argument was rejected, both with respect
to the proceeds of mining operations carried on by the
corporate owner on its land, Stratton's Indepeiidence v.

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

Howbert, supra; Goldfield Consolidated Mines Co. v.
Scott, 247 U. S. 126; see Stanton v. Baltic Mining Co.,
240 U. S. 103, 114, and with respect to payments made
by the lessee to the corporate lessor under the provisions
of a mining lease. Von Baumbach v. Sargent Land Co.,
242 U. S. 503, 521, 522; United States v. Biwabik Mining
Co., 247 U. S. 116.
Although these cases arose under the Act of 1909, before the enactment of the capital gains provision in the
1921 Act, they established, for purposes of defining "income" in a tax measured by it, that payments by lessees
to lessors under mining leases were not a conversion of
capital, as upon a sale, of capital assets, but were income
to the lessor, like payments of rent. And before the 192.1
Act this Court had indicated (see Eisner v. Macomber,
252 U. S. 189," 207), what it later held, that "income,"
as used in the revenue acts taxing income, adopted since
the Sixteenth Amendment, has the same meaning that
it had in the Act of 1909. Merchants Loan & Trust Co.
v. Smietanka, 255 U. S. 509, 519; see Southern Pacific Co.
v. Lowe, 247 U. S.330, 335.
'Congress legislated itf the light of this history, cf.
United States v. Merriam, 263 *U. S.179, 187; and, in the
absence of explicit language indicating a different purpose,'it'cannot be taken to have intended that an. oil and
gas ioase under the capital gains provision, any more
than a mineral lease under the earlier acts, should be
treated like an ordinary sale of land or chattels, resulting
in a conversion of capital assets. Such a construction
would have disregarded legislative and judicial history
of persuasive force; it would have adopted a distorted,
rather than the common meaning of the term "sale,"
see Old Colony R. Co. v. Commissioner, 284 U. S. 552,
561, and would have tended to defeat rather than further
the purpose of the Act.

BURNET v. HARMEL.
103

Opinion bf the Court.

The respondent does not challenge the correctness of
the construction of the statute which we adopt,1 when
applied to oil and gas leases.under which the title to the
oil and gas passes to the lessee only on severance from
the leasehold. But it is argued that the section cannot
be so applied to the bonus payments received by the lessor
in the present case, because, under Texas law, an oil and
gas lease operates immediately upon its execution to pass

the title of the oil and gas, in place, to the lessee, and it
is thus a sale of the oil and gas and a conversion of )capital
assets within the precise terms of § 208.
In Group No. 1 Oil Corp. v. Bass, 283 U. S. 279, this
Court recognized that oil and gas leases have been characterized, in the decisions of the Texas courts, as present
sales of the oil and gas in place, and we applied the rule
of those decisions that ownership of the oil and gas passes
from lessor to lessee on execution of the lease. There the
question was not one of the interpretation of a federal
statute, but of the power of the federal government to
levy a tax upon the income of a lessee of state lands, derived from the sale of oil and gas abstracted by him from
the land. It was objected that the tax-was not within the
power of fhe federal government because imposed on
income derived from an .instrumentality of the state. If
the oil and gas had ceased to be property of the .state before its removal by the lessee, it had, under the decisions
of this Court, ceased to be an instrumentality of the state,
and the income derived from it was within the taxing
power of the national government. Whether the title
'The capital gins provision of the 1921 Act (§ 206) was held not
to embrace receipts of the lessor from an oil and gas lease in Burkett v.
Commissioner, 31 F. (2d) 667; Berg v. Commissioner, 33 F. (2d) 641;
Hirschi v. United States, 67 Ct. Cl. 637; Ferguson v. Commissioner,
59 F. (2d) 891; and in Alexander v. King, 46 F. (2d) 235, a similar

construction was placed upon the like provisions of the 1924 Act.

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

had so passed was a question of state law, and the affirmative answer of the state courts necessarily led to the conclusion that the lessee's income was not immune from federal income tax. Compare Burnet v. Coronado Oil Co.,
285 U. S. 393, 399.
Here we are concerned only with the meaning and
application 'of a statute enacted by Congress, in the
exercise of its plenary power under the Constitution,
to tax income. The exertion of that power is not subject
to state control. It is the will of Congress which controls, and the expression of its will in legislation, in the
absence of language evidencing a different purpose, is to
be interpreted so as to give a uniform application to a
nationwide scheme of taxation. See Weiss v. Weiner, 279
U. S. 333, 337; Burk-Waggoner Oil Assn, v, Hopkins, 269
U. S. 110; United,States v. Childs, 266 U. S. 304, 309.
State law may control only when the federal taxing act,
by express language or necessary implication, makes its
own operation dependent upon state law. See Crooks
v. Harrelson,282 U. S.55; Poe v. Seaborn, 282 U. S.101;
United States v. Loan & Building Co., 278 U. S. 55; Tyler
v. United States, 281 U. S. 497;, see. Von Baumbach v.
Sargent Land Co., supra, 519.
But § 208 neither says nor implies that the determination of "gain from the sale or exchange of capital
assets" is to be controlled by state law. For the purpose of applying this section to the particular payments
now under consideration, the Act of Congress has its own
criteria, irrespective of any particular characterization of
tho payments in the local law. See Weiss v. Weiner,
supra, 337. The state law creates legal interests but the
federal statute determines when and how they shall be
taxed. We examine the Texas law only for the purpose
of ascertaining whether the leases conform to the standard
which the taxing statute prescribes for giving the favored
treatment to capital gains. Thus tested we find in the

BURNET v. HARMEL.
103

Opinion of the Court.

Texas leases no differences -from those leases where the
title to the oil and gas passes only on severance by the
lessee, which are of sufficient consequence to call for any
different application of § 208. The fact that title, to the
oil and gas is said to pass before severance, rather than
after, is not such a difference. The economic consequences to the lessor of the two types of, lease are the
same. Under both, the payments made by the lessee are
consideration for the right which he acquires to enter
upon and use the land for the purpose of exploiting it, as
well as for the ownership of the oil and gas; under both
the bonus payments are paid and retained, regardless of
whether oil or gas is found and despite the fact that all
which is not abstracted will remain the property of the
lessor upon termination of the lease.
Title to the oil and gas likewise passes from the land
owner when he conducts mining operations on his own
land. But, as was pointed out in Stratton's Independence v. Howbert, since that is only an incident to' the use
of his land for oil production, the operation, considered
in its entirety, cannot be viewed as a sale or a conversion
of capital assets. Like considerations govern here.
The court below thought that the bonus payments, as
distinguished from the royalties, should be treated as
capital gain, apparently because it assumed that the statute authorizes a depletion allowance upon the royalties
alone. See Fergusonv. Commissioner,45 F. (2d) 573, 577.
But bonus payments to the lessor have been deemed to be
subject to depletion allowances under § 214a (9), Revenue Act of 1924, by Art. 216; Treasury Regulations 65, as
'well as under earlier acts. § 214 a '(10), Revenue Act of
1921, Art. 215, Treasury Regulations 62. Cf. Murvhy Oil
Co. v. Burnet, 55 F. (2d) 17. The distinction, so far as
we are advised, has not been taken in any other case. See
Alex4ander v. King, supra; Ferguson v. Commissioner, 59
F. (2d) 891; Appeal of Nelson Land & Oil Co., 3 B. T. A.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

112

Syllabus.

287 U.S.

315; Burkett v. Commissioner,31 F. (2d) 667, and see the
same case before the Board of Tax Appeals, 7 B. T. A.
560; Berg v. Commissioner, 33 F. (2d) 641; Hirschi v.
United States, supra. We see no basis for it. Bonus and
royalties are both consideration for the lease and are in.come of the lessor. We cannot say that such payments
by the lessee to the lessor, to be retained by him regardless of the prioduction of any oil or gas, are any more to
be taxed as capital gains than royalties which are measured by the actual production. See Work v. Mosier, 261
U. S. 352, 357-358.
Reversed.
GEBARDI

ET AL. v.

UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 97. Argued October 10, 1932.-Decided November 7, 1932.
1. Section 2 of the Mann Act imposes a penalty upon "Any person
who shall knowingly transport or cause to be transported, or aid or
assist in obtaining transportation for, or in transporting in interstate or foreign commerce . . .any woman or girl for the purpose

of prostitution or debauchery or for any other immoral purpose . .

."

Held:

That a woman who is the willing object of such transportation,
but who does not aid or assist otherwise than by her consent, is not
guilty of the offense. P. 119.
2. A woman merely acquiescing in her transportation by a man, for
immoral conduct between them, in violation of § 2 of the Mann
Act, does not thereby commit the crime of conspiring to commit
the substantive offense of which by the transportation he alone
becomes guilty. P. 123.
So held, upon the ground that as Congress set out in the Mann
Act to deal with cases which involve consent and agreement on
the part of the woman in every case in which she is a voluntary
agent at all, the failure of the Act to condemn her participation
in transportation effected with her mere consent evinces an
affirmative legislative policy to leave her acquiescence unpunished,

