SUPREME COURT.

MARTIN PICKETT's HEIRS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. SAUEL
LEGERWVOOD ET AL.
The court refused to quash a writ of error on the ground that the record
was not filed with the clerk of the court until the month of Tune 1832,
the writ having been retuenable to January term 1832. The defendant
m error might have availed himself of the benefit of the twenty-ninth
rule of the court, wich gave him the right to docket and dismiss the
cause.
The appropriate use of a writ of error, coram vobis, is to enable a court to
correct its own errors, those errors which precede the rendition of the
judgment. In practice the same end is now generally attained by motion, sustained, if the case require it, by affidavits; and the latter mode
has superseded the former in the British practice.
In the circuit court for the district of Kentucky, a judgment n favouf of
tne plantiff in an 'ejectment was entered m 1798, and no proceedings on
tne same until 1830 ; when the period of the demise having expired, the
court, on motion, and notice to one of the defendants, made an order inserting a demise of fifty years. It having been afterwards shown to the
court that the parties really interested in the land when the motion to
amend was niiade, had not been noticed of the proceeding, -the court
issudd a writ of error coram vobis, and gave a judgment sustainmg the
s ,me, anri
that the order extending thedemise should be set aside. From
this judgment a writ of error was prosecuted to this court, and it was
held that the judgment on the writ of error coram vobis, wa4 not such a
judgment as could be brought up by a writ of error for decision to this
court-.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Kentucky.
In the circuit court of Kentucky, at November term 1831,

the defendants in error, Samuel Legerwood, Hugh Roseberry,
William Henderson, William Jlitchell and John Graves, filed
a petition, stating that m 1796 a certain Martin Pickett brought
his action of ejectment m the district court of the United States
of the Kentucky distnct, against William Mitchell and William

Maxwell.

That the petitioner, Samuel Legerwood, under

whose father -and testator William Legerwood, the said defendants who were tenants claimed, was, with the said tenants,
made defendant, and m 1798 a judgment was.obtained in the

said court m favour of Pickett, ]jut no writ of possession was

JANUARY TERM 18.q
[Pickett's Heirs v. Legerwood et al.]

executed in favour of Pickett. The demise in the declaration
was laid at ten years, and expired in 1806, and remained dead
and inoperative for nearly twenfy-five years, when, before the
spring term of the court in 1830, a notice was served .by the
attorney for the dqvisees of Martin Pickett on William 'Witchelli that the court would be moved to amend the demise by
inserting, a new one; and on the sixth day of the term he procured an order to.be made, inserting a demise of fifty years,
without the knowledge of any person interested in the said
land at that time, which ex parte order was not discovered
until one year after. That a writ of possession was then, at
the time of ling the petition, in the hands of the marshal,
and he was about to take possession of the said land.
The petition proceeds to set forth the title under whicn
William Legerwood, the father of Samuel Legerwood, claimed
the land, against the title set up by Martin Pickett. That
William Mitchell, one- of. the defendants m the suit, was a
tenant of part of the land, that the tract of Legerwood was,
several years after the judgment in ejectment, sold by an execution-in favour of the devisees of Pickett, and was bought by
Thomas Starke, to whom.the sheriff conveyed the same, to
whom also William Mitchell, the said defendant, sold out
his interest in the land, and moved away nearly one hundred
miles from the land, and has not for many years been a tenant
of it. This fact is alleged to have been well known to the attorney for the devisees of Pickett, and that Mitchell, having
no interest in the same,, gave no information of the intended
motion to the rest of the petitioners, who are terre tenants.
The petition proceeds to state sundry conveyances and devises
of the land under which the parties to the petition all became
owners or claimants of the same, or possessors thereof, before
the said motion to amend the demise, and the notice of the
same to William Mitchell.
The petitioners Henderson, Graves and Roseberry say they
are exclusive terre tenants, and, as such, were entitled to notice, even if the judgment was to be revived by scire facias;
and that Mitchell had not been a terre tenant for upwards of
ten or twelve years, and had no interest therein. That Samuel Legerwood has neve' been a terre tenant, but was entered
VOL. VII.-T

SUPREME COURT.
[Pickett's Heirs v. Legerwood et al.]

defendant for those claiming under the title of his deceased
father, and that ,Maxwell has abandoned the possession, and
has been dead for many years.
The petition prays the court to award a writ of error corain
vobis, to reverse and annul the order extending the demise, and
to quash the impending writ of habere facias possessionem,and for such dther relief as tht case requires.
The circuit court ordered an injunction to stay proceedings
on the habere facias and on the 26th November 1831 the
following judgment was entered
"The courtbemg now sufficiently advised of and concerning the premises, do consider that the plaintiff's writ of error
coram vobis, be sustained, that the order extending the demise in the declaration of Seekright, on demise of Pickett
against Mitchell, &c. be set aside, and the habere facias which
issued thereon be quashed, and that the plaintiffs recover of
the defendants their costs herein expended."
From this judgment the plaintiffs in error, on the 28th of
November 1831, prosecuted a writ of error to this court. The
citation is dated of the 28th November 1831, and required the
defendants in error to appear at the January-term 1832 of this
court.
The record brought up by-the writ of error, was filed in June
1832.
Mr Loughborough, for the defendants m error, moved to
quash the writ of error on the following grounds.
1. Because, although the writ of error was returnable to
January term 1832 of this court, the record was not-filed until
June 1832, the term of January 1832 having thus intervened.
2. Because the proceedings of the circuit court on the writ
of error corain vobis, were not of such a nature as to admit of
revision in this court, it being no more than a different form
or mode of exercising the power the circuit court had over its
acts, and therefore subject to the rules which this court have
estaiblished against revising the interocutory-acts or orders of
inferior courts.
The motion was opposed by Mr Wickliffe, for the plaintiffs
in-error.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Pickett's Heirs v. Legerwood et al.]

Mr Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was a motion to quash the writ of error upon two
grounds.
The first was because the record was not filed with the clerk
of this court until the month of June 1832, whereas the writ of
error was duly served, returnable to the January term 1832.
It was contended that the case was out of court by lapse of
time, and the filing at that late day could not reinstate it.
But on this ground we are of opinion that the motion cannot
be sustained, since the defendant in error might have availed
himself of the benefit of the rule of court, which gave him the
right to docket and dismiss the cause. This court decided in
the case of Wood and Lide, that provided the service be before
the return day of the writ, a return at a subsequent day will
be sustained. 4 Cranch, 150, 2 Peters's Cond. Rep. 76The second ground is one which required more examination.
The judgment below was rendered on a writ of error coram
vobis sued out in the same court, for the purpose of correcting
an error committed at a previous term, and into which it was
contended that the court had been surpnsed. We are not now
called upon to decide on the merits of the cause below, nor
whether it was a case proper for the application of that remedy.
The motion here is to quash tht writ of error, upon the ground
that it is an exercise of jurisdiction in the court below which
does not admit of revision in this tribunal, that it is but a different form or mode -ofexercising the power of the court of.the
first resort over its own acts, and is therefore subject to the
same exceptions which have always been sustamed in this
court, against revising the interlocutory acts and orders of the
inferior courts.
It cannot be questioned that the appropriate use of the writ
of error coram vobis, is to enable a court to correct its own
errors; those errors which precede the rendition of judgment.
In prActice the same end is now generally attained by motion,
sustained, if the case require it, by affidavits; and itis observable, that so far has the latter mode superseded the former in
the British practice, that Blackstone does not even notice this
suit among his remedies. It seems, it is still in frequent use In
some of the states; and upon points of fact to which the remedy

SUPREME COURT.
[Pickett's Heirs v. Legerwood et al]

extends, it might, perhaps, be beneficially resorted to as the
means of submitting a litigated fact to the decision of a jury;
an end which, under the mode of proceeding by motion, might
otherwise require a feigned issue, or impose upon a judge the
alternative of deciding a controverted point upon affidavit, or
opening a judgment, perhaps to the material prejudice of the
plaintiff, in order to let in a plea.
But in general, and in the practice of most of the states, this
remedy is nearly exploded, or at least superseded by that of
amending on motion. The cases in which it is held to be the
appropriate remedy will show that it will work no failure of
justice, if we decide that it is not one of those remedies over
which the supervising power of this court is given by law.
The cases for error coram vobis, are enumerated without
any material variation in all the books of practice, and rest on
the authority of the sages and fathers of the law. I will refer
to the pages of Archbold for the following enumeration. (Ist
Vol. 234, 276, 277, 278, 279.) "Error in the process, or
through default of the clerk; error in fact, as where the defendant being un er age sued by attorney, in any other action
but ejectment, that either plaintiff or defendant was a married
woman at the commencement of the suit, or died before verdict
or interlocutory judgment, and the like."
But all the books concur in quoting the language of Roll's
Abndgement, p. 749, "that if the error be in the judgment
itself, and not in the process, a writ of error does not lie in the
samecourt, but must be brought in another and superior court."
The writ of error in this case was but a substitute for a motion to.the court below, to correct an error of its own, in grantmg improvidently a motion for leave to amend. Many years
had elapsed since entering a judgment in ejectment; tlhe term
declared ot had long since expired, the terre tenant was
changed, only one of the original defendants survived, and he
had removed to a great distance from the prenmses recovered,
on him alone notice of the motion was served; and the court,
unaware of these facts, granted leave to amend the declaration
in the original suit by extending the term more than twenty
years, so as to enable the plaintiffs to sue out a writ of possession. This writ of error was sued out to enable the court

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Pickett's Heirs v. Legerwood et al.]

below to correct that error; they have ordered that it shall be
corrected, and from that order to set aside their former order
and quash- the writ of possession, is the appeal now made to
the reversing power of this court.
We think the case comes precisely within the rule laid down
by this court in the case of Waldon v. Craig, 9 Wheat. 576,
with this difference, that the latter was a case in which the
court thought so favourably of the claim of the plaintiff in
error, that they would have sustained the suit if it had been
possible. The court there express themselves thus. "There
is peculiar reason in this case, where the cause has been protracted, and the plaintiff kept out of possession beyond the term
laid in the declaration, by the excessive delays.practised by the
opposite party. But the course of this court has not been in
favour of the idea that a writ of error will lie to, the opinion of
a circuit court granting or refusing a motion like this. No,
judgment in the cause is brought up by the writ, but merely a
decision on a collateral motion, which may be renewed."
In that case, as in this, the motion was to extend a term in
ejectment, after judgment, but where the plaintiff's delay in
proceeding with his writ of possession, was not attributable to,
his own laches. He had been arrested in his course by successive injunctions sued out by the defendants. This court
did there recognize the case of delay by injunction as one in
which, in that action, the court might exercise the power to
enlarge the term even after judgment, and the particular case
as one which merited that exercise of discretion, but dismissec
the writ of error because it was a case proper for the exercise
of that discretion, and not coming within the description of an
error in the principal judgment.
On consideration of the motion made to dismiss this writ of
error to the circuit court Qf the United State- for the district of
Kentucky, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that this writ of error to the said circuit court be, and the same
is hereby dismissed with costs.

