JANUARY TERM 1833.

JOHN MINOR,.PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. SHURBAL TILLOTSON.

What will be deemed sufficient evidence of diligent and sufficient search
for a lost or mislaid original paper, to permit a copy to be read as secondary evidence.
The rules of evidence are adopted for practical purposes in the administration ofjustice. And althoukh it is laid down in the books as a general
rule, that the best evidence the nature of the case will admit of, must be
given; yet it is not understood that this rule requires the strongest possible assurance of the matter in question. The exteht to which the rule
is to be pushed is governed, in some measure, by circumstances. If any
suspicion hangs over the instrument, or that it is designedly withheld, a

more rigid mquiry should be made into the reasons foits non-production. 'But where there is no such suspicion, all that ought to be required is reasonable diligence to obtain the original.

ERROR to the district court of the eastern district of Louimana.

This case came before the court, and was argued by Mr
Clay, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr Webster, for the
defendant.
The only point decided by the court,- with the facts which
presented it for consideration, are fully stated in the opinion of
the court. Other questions in the case, in relation to the
admission of testimony, were argued by the counsel for the
parties, but the court considered them so imperfectly stated,
as to require that another trial of the cause should take place
in the court below.
Mr Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
On the trial of this cause, in the district court of the-United"
States for the .eastern district of Loumana, a bill of exceptions
was taken to the ruling of the court in rejecting certain evidence offered by the plaintiff in support of the title set up by
him, and the case is brought here by writ of error.
The bill of exceptions states that the plaintiff, having set' up
title to the premises in dibpute by virtue of a~sale fr- general

SUPREME COURT.
[linor v. Trnotson.]

Wade Hampton, dated the 5th of April 1819, then offered m
evidence another paper purporting to be a copy of the grant,
under which said Hampton claimed, which copy had been
duly presented and registered by the land commissioners of
this district, in the year 1806, having first proved that many of
the ordinances-of the Spanish governors of Louisiana had been
deposited in the notarial office of Pedro Pedescloux, the notary,
who certified the said paper under his hand and notarial seal;
and who is now dead, and also having first proved -that the
original grant was once in the -possession of general Wade
Hampton, but that he had, by ins attorney, applied to said
Wade Hampton for it, who gave him a bundle of papers, sayrag,they were all the titles ol his Houmas lands in his possession, but which bundle did not contain the original of the
paper sought after the plaintiff also offered in evidence the
translation of said document, published by congress in the
book called the Land Laws of the United States, pp. 954, 955,
956, published in the year 1828. These papers were objected
to on the ground that they were not the best evidence, and
that due diligenc had not been used to procure the originals.
And the court sustained the objection.
The document offered and rejected by the court, is to be
considered as secondary evidence, and there can be.no doubt
that the plaintiff was bound to account for the non-production
of the original. This is a document wich the law does not
presume to be in the possession of the plaintiff; it is the grant
under which Wade Hampton claimed, a small part of which
only was in question in this suit. The presumption of law
therefore is, that the original deed was in the possession of
Wade Hampton, and the plaintiff could not be bound'to search
for it elsewhere, there being no law in Louisiana requiring
deeds to be recorded. And it was proved, as matter of fact,
that it was once in his possession, at what time, however, is
not stated, and the question is, whether suh. search was.
made for it as to justify the admission of secondary evidence.
The rules of evidence are adopted for practical purposes in the
administration of justice, and although it is laid down in the
books as a general rule, -that the best evidence the nature of
the case will admit of, must be given, yet it is not under-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Minor v. TiUotson.]

stood that this rule requires the strongest possible assurance of
the matter in question. The extent to which the rule is to be
pushed in a cqse like the present, is governed m some measure
by circumstances. If any suspicion hangs over the instrument,
or that it is designedly withheld, a more rigid inquiry should
be made into the reasons for its non-production. But when
there is no such suspicion, all that ought to be required is reasonable diligence to obtain the original. Has that been shown.
in this case Q The exception states, that it wasproved to have
been m the possession of Wade Hampton, and that on application to him, by the plaintifPs attorney, for it, he gave him
a bundle of papers, saying, they were all the titles to his Houmas lands (the premises in question being a part of that. tract);
but which bundle, on examination, did not contain the original
deed in question. There was no other place to which the
law pointed where search could be made, and nothing more
could be required, unless it was necessary to have the oath of
Wade Hampton that the deed was not in his possession. But
this we do not think, under the circumstances of this case, was
necessary. There'do not appear any grounds for supposmg
the deed -was designedly withheld, and the circumstances
under which the search was made, were equivalent to the
witnesses having had free access to all Wade Hampton's papers, and proving that the deed could not be found-among
chem. The examination was made by the witness under allthe advantages and prospect of finding the deed that could
have been afforded to Hampton himself. He was, for this
purpose, in the possession of all his papers, and not finding it,
the inference was very strong that it was lost. And the antiquity of the deed, being dated in the year 1777, rendered its
loss the more probable.
The case of Caufman v. Congregation of Cedar Spring,
6 Binney, 59, decided in the supreme court of Pennsylvama,
goes very fully to establish that it was -not necessary to have
the testimony of Wade Hampton, under the circumstances of
this case. In that case a written agreement was placed- in
the hands of a common friend, who, upon his removal to another place, had put the paper into the hands of Ins father,
who died. After proofs of these facts, a witness swore that,

SUPREME COURT.
[rmor v. Tillotson.]

after the father's deati, he,'together with the son-in-law, to
whom all his papers came, made diligent search among the
father's papers, but could not find the writing. It was held
that this was sufficient proof of the loss to lay the foundation
for proving the contents of the paper, without the oath of the
son-in-law himself, as to the search and not finding the paper.
We think the proof of the loss of the original deed was sufficient to let in.the secondary evidence. We forbear, however,
expressing any opinion upon the legal effect and operation of
that deed.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed, and the
.cause sent-back with directions to award a venire de novo.
There were several other exceptions taken to the ruling of
the court, m relation to the admission of testimony, which we
do not notice. They are so imperfectly stated, that it is difficult to understand what the real point of objection is, and
no opinion can be expressed that will aid the court below on
another trial.
Judgment reversed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the district court of the United States for the eastern
district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. on consideration whereof it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said- district court m this cause be, and the
same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be, and the same
is hereby remanded to the said district court with directions to
award a venire facias de novo.

