SUPREME COURT.

WILLIAM TYRELL'S HEIRS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. ANDREW
ROUNTREE AND OTHERS.
Ejectment. On the 12th of February 1807, an attachment was regularly
issued by the court of Williamson county, Tennessee, alid was, on the
13th of the same month, levied on a tract of land, the property of the defendant in the suit. Judgment by default was entered on the 15th-of
October 1807; the property was on motion condemned, and awritofven.
ditioni exponas issued on the 24th, which came into the hands of the sheriff
on the2 8th ofOctober who sold the propertyunder it, on the 2dof.January
1908. The county of Williamson was divided on the 16th of November
1807, and that part of the land for which this ejectment was brought,
lay in the new county called Xaury. Held, that the process of execution
for the sale of the land, under which it was sold by the sheriff, was a direction to the sheriff to sell the specific property, which was already in
his possession, by virtue of the attachment, and-was already condemned
by the competent tribunal. The subsequent division of the county could
not divest his vested interest, or deprive the officer of the power to finish
a process which was already begun.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the district of West Tennessee.
An ejectment was brought by the plaintiffs in error to September term 1830, in the circuit court'of West Tennessee, for
the recovery of a tract of land, which, in the life time of the
ancestor of the plaintiffs, had been taken m'execution, and sold
by the sheriff, to satisfy a debt for which judgment had been
obtained in Williamson . county, in the state of 'Lennessee.
The suit was commenced by attachment, and the land for
which this ejectment was instituted, was attached on the 13th
of February 1807, the sheriff having made the following return

to the writ of attachment.

"Came to hand the 13th of Feb-

ruary 1807, about nine o'clock, and levied Immediately on an
undivided half of three thousand eight hundred and forty acres
of land, on both sides of Sugar Creek;" &c., being William
Tyrell's right and interest therein.
On the 15th of October 1807, the plaintiff obtamed judgment
for Ins debt, and, on motion, the property attached was condemned, and a writ of venditiom exponas was ordered on

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[TyreU's Henrs v. Rountree and others.)
the same day, The writ was issued on the 24th of October
1807, and-the property was sold on the 2d of January 1808.
The def adants in error derived their title under this sale.
On the trial of the ejectment in the dircuit court, evidence was
given which proved, that, at the time the attachment was laid
on the land, it was situated in Williamson county; and that on
the 16th of November 1807, the legislture of Tennessee passed an act dividing the county of Williamson, and erecting part
of the same into a separate county, denominated Maury county; and that a portion of the land in controversy was situated
in Maury county, when the same was sold by the sheriff of the
county of Williamson.
The counsel for the plaintiffs requested the court to .charge,
that, whether the said judgment of the court of pleas and quarter
sessions of Williamson county was void or not, the sale under it
was void as to that part of the land which was situated in the
countyof Maury at the time of the sale; and that the sale and
conveyance of the sheriff of the county of Williamson did
not transfer that portion of the land.
The charge of the court was, that neither the judgment nor
the proceedings in Williamson county were void, for any thing
appearing or not appearing on the face bf said judgment and
the record thereof.
The court also charged the jury, that, if a portion of the
land in controversy was.situated in the county of Maury at the
time of the sale'thereof by the sheriff of Williamson, under the
judgment of Molloy's executors, yet that such sale was good,
and vested the title in the purchasers, as the land was all
situated in Williamson at the time of the levy, where public
notice of the sale was given, until within a few days of the
sale, and that the sale was good by relation to the levy.
The counsel for the plaintiffs excepted to the charges of the
court thus given, and a bill of exceptions was sealed by the
court. Judgment having been rendered for the defendants,
the plaintiffs prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Coxe, for the plaintiffs in error,
and by MrBel,, for the defendants.
VOL. VII.-3 I

SUPREME COURT.
[Tyrell's Heirs v. Iountree and others.]

Mr Coxe, for the plaintiffs, contended, that after the division
of the county, by the act of the legislature of Tennessee, in
which act there was no saving clause as to the matter before
the court, all the right of the sheriff of Williamson county to
sell that part of the land which fell within the county of Maury,
terminated.
The sheriff does not take possession of the land against
which the process of execution issues, and under a writ of venditioni exponas he sells no.more than the right and interest of
the defeildant in the same. He cannot deliver possession of
the property he sells to the purchaser.
This shows that the sheriff has but a naked power to sell the
lien of the plaintiff, which he has acquired by his judgment,
and that it is co-extensive, and no more, with the limits of the
county in which he can exercise the authority of a sherif. As
soon as any part of the property of the defendant is by law separated fiom the county of which he is the sheriff, all his authority to dispose of the rights over it acquired by the plaintiff
in the judgment, are at an end.
By the Jaws of Tennessee of 1794, a judgment is a lien on
all the lands of the defendant in the state, and execution may
issue from the court in which the judgment is obtained, to the
sheriffof the particular county in which the land of the defendant may be situated. As therefore the lien of the plaintiff in
the suit under which the land in controversy in this case was
sold was not affected by the division of the county, the plaintiff
might have had ptocess of execution to the sheriff of Maury
county, and have thus sold the land of the defendant: Instead
of this, he employed the original execution. Cited, Bacon's
Abr. Execution.
Mr Bell, for the defendants in error, argued, that by tne
attachment the sheriff of 1Williamson county became fully
invested with such a possession and control -over the land
attached as authonsed him:when judgment should be obtained,
and process of execution issued, to dispose of it. The attachment issued on the 13th of February 1807, and before the act
dividing the county was passed, every thing to complete and

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[TyreU's HEmrs v. Rountree and others.]

secure the rights of the plaintiff over the'land attached, and to
empower the sheiiff to dispose of it, was done.
As the sheriff does not deliver possession of the land he sells
under an execution, his powers under the process were not
affected by the'act dividing the county. After the sale, the
rights of the purchaser could be enforced in an-ejectment, and
did not require any further act.of the sheriff to complete them.
The sheriff is not by the law of Tennessee required to. o to
the land be takes in execution, and he sells it at such place as
he may tlunk proper.
The rights of the -plaintiff under the attachment, the
judgment and the execution, were fully vested and secured
before the act for the division of the county was passed,
and those rights could not be affected by the same. He
could not be interrupted or delayed in, the use and, enloyment of those rights; nor could they be postponed. To demde
that he must have resorted to new proceedings, would be to
say that he could be deprived of the rights thus obtained, by
a law passed after they hdd been acquired and- completed.
Such a law would impair rights protected by the constitution
of the United States, and that of the state of Tennessee.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In this case the i~intiffs in error contend that the circuit
court misdirected the jury; in consequence of which, the verdict
ought to be set aside, the judgment reversed, and a venire
facias de novo awarded.
They had brought an ejectment for a tract of land, the title
to which was shown to have been in their ancestor; but which
the defendants claimed under a conveyance thereof made by
the sheriff of Williamson county, in West Tennessee, in pursuance of a sale made by him under a writ of venditiom exponas,
issued on a judgment rendered in a suit commenced by attachment.
•-On the 12th day of February 1807, the attachment was
regularly issued, and was levied on the 13th of the same
month on the land in controversy. The defendants in the
attachment did not appear, or replevy the property, but made

SUPREME COURT.
[Tyrell's Heimrs v. Rountree and othem.]

default, on which judgment was rendered on the 18th of
October 1807. On motion; the property attached was condemned, and a writ of venditiom exponas awarded, which
issued on, the, 24th, and ,came to the bands of the officer on
the 28th of October 1807, who sold on the 2d of January
1808.
The plaintiffs proved that the county of Williamson was
divided on the 16th of November 1807, and that part of the
land for which the ejectment was brought lay in the new
county called Maury. He therefore moved the court to instruct the jury that the. sale was void as to that part of the
land which was situated in the county of Maury, at the time
of the sale; and that the conveyance of the sheriff did not
transfer that portion of it.
The court instructed the jury that the sale was good by
relation to the levy. To this instruction a bill of exceptions
*was taken, and the cause is brought up by writ of error.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error has argued the cause
as if the rrocess under -which the sale was made had been the
usual executfon awarded on a judgment rendered against a
person- brought into court by regular process. Without inquiring whether his objections to the charge would have been
well founded, had that been the character of the case, it is
sufficient to observe that, in the actual cause, the land itself
was attached. Not having been released, it remained in the
custody of the officer suliject to the judgment of the court.
An interest was vested in hun for the purposes of that judgment. The judgment did not create a general lien on it, but
was a specific appropriation of the property itself to the satisfaction of that particular judgment. The process which issued
did not direct the officer to levy it on the property of the
defendants, but to sell that specific property which was already
m his possession by virtue of the attachment and was already
condemned by the judgment of the competent tribunal. The
subsequent division of the county could not divest this vested
interest, or deprive the officer of the power to finish a process
which was rightly begun.
There is no error in the charge, and the judgment is affirmed
with costs.

