SUPREME COURT

THE UNITED STATES V. SXMUEL BREWSTER.
Indictment founded on the eighteenth section of the act of congress, passea
on the 15th day of April 1816, entitled "an act to incorporate the subscribers to the Bank of the United States."
The indictment charged the defendant with uttering and forging "a counterfeit bill in imitation of a bill issued by the president," &c. of the bank.
The forged paper was in these words and figures:
(5) F 745
F 745 (5)
Cashier
of the
Baik of the United States,
Pay to C. W Earnest, or order, five dollars
Office of Discount and Deposit m Pittsburgh, the 10th day of Dec. 1829.
A. BRACKENRIDGE, Pres.
J.Coaary, Cash.
Falrman, Draper, Underwood & Co.
(Indorsed)
Pay the bearer,
C. W EARNEST.
Held, that a genuine instrument, of which the forged and counterfeited"
instrument is an imitation, is not a bill issued by order of the president,
&c. of the Bank of the Uaiited States, according to the true intent and
meaning of the eig Lteenth section of the act incorporating the bank.

ON a certificate of division of opinion from the circuit court of
the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
At the circuit court in October 1832, an indictment was
found against the defendant, containing two counts.
The first, that on the 8th day of May 1832, he unlawfully
and feloniously did sell, utter and deliver a false, forged and
counterfeited bill, in imitation of, a bill issued by order of the
president and directors of the Bank of the United States, which
said false, forged, and counterfeited bill, partly written and
partly printed, is in the words and figures following, to wit.
(5) F 45
Cashier

F 745'(S)
of the

Bank of the United States,
.May to C. W- Earnest, or order, five dollars
Office of Discount and Deposit in Pittsburgh; the 10th day of Dec. 1829.
A. BRACKENRIDGE, Pres.
J.Coitxa, Cash.
Pairman, Draper, Underwood'& Co.
tIndorsed)
Pay the bearer,
C. -W -EARNEST.

JANUARY TERM 1&33.
Vditned States v. Brewster.]

with intent to defraud the president, directors and company of
the- Bank of the United States; he, the said'Samuel Brewster,
otherwise called Samuel B. Brewster, at the time hq so sold,
uttered and delivered the said falsei forged and counterfeited
bill as aforesaid, then and there well knowing the same to be
false, forged and counterfeited, contrary to the form of the act
of congress in such case made and provided, and against the
pea, and dignity of the United States of America.
The second count charged that the defendant did sell, uttei
and deliver, and did c.nuse to be sold, uttered and delivered, a
false, forged and counterfeited note, m imitation-of and purporting to be a note issued by order of the president and directors
of the Bank of the United States, which said last mentioned
false, forged and counterfeited note, partly written and partly
printed, was in the words and figures following, to wit [describing-it m the same form as in the first count] with mtent to defraud the president, directors and company of the
Bank of the United States; he, the said Samuel Brewster,
otherwise called Samuel B. Brewster, at the time he so sold,
uttered and delivered the said false, forged and counterfeited
note as aforesaid then and there well knowing the same to, be
false, forged anycounterfeited, cqntrary to-the form of the act
of congress in such case made and provided, &c.
To, this indictment, the prisoner pleaded not guilty; and,
upon. the trial, the following question occurred, upon which the
opinions of the judges of the circuit court were opposed.
Whether the genuine instrument of which the said false,
forged and counterfeited instrument is m imitation, is a bill
issued by order of the president .and directors of the said bank,
according to the true intent and meaning of the eighteenth
section of the act of congress, passed on the 1.6th day of April
in the year of our 'Lord 1816, entitled "an act to incorporate.
the subscribers of the Bank of-the United States."
'And the said judges being so opposed m opimon upon the
question aforesaid, the same was then and'there, at the request
of' the district attorney for the United States, stated-under the
direction of the judges, and ordered by the court to be certified,
under the seal of the court, to the supreme court, at their-next
session to be held thereafter, to be finally decided by the said

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Brewster.]
supreme-court, and the court being further of opinion that
further proceedings could not be had m said cause without
prejudice to the merits of the same cause, did order that the
jury empannelled as aforesaid to try said cause, be discharged
from giving any verdict thdrem.
The case was presented to the consideration of the court by
Mr Taney, attorney-general. The defendant did not appear

by counsel.
Mr Taney said
The indictment was found under the provisions of the act of
April 10th, 1816, sect. 18, incorporating the Bank of the United
States. The offence charged in the first count is selling "a
counterfeit ]bill;" in the second count the offence alleged is
selling "a counterfeit note."
Under the provisions of the law the "note" or "bill" counterfeited, must be one issued "by order of the president and
directors of the bank;" but tins is not such a bill. It is drawn
by the president and cashier of the branch bank of Pittsburgh
on the mother banic at Philadelphia.
The attorney-general submitted the case to the court, after
stating the sections of the bank charter which refer to ,"bills,"
"notes," and "bills of exchange," thus showing that 'the
"notes" of the bank, aAd "bills of exchange" are not the same;
while upon other words used in the eighteenth -section, the
offence charged against the defendant night have been the
foundation of an indictment, the court would decide whether
in this case as a "bill" or "note," the draft set forth in the
indictment was properly described. He also cited 10 Petersd.
44, 2 East's Cr. Law, 876, 10 Petersd. 51.
The following certificate was directed to be issued to the
circuit court.
On a certificate of division in opimon of the judges of the
circuit court of the United States for the eastern district of
Pennsylvania.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the eastern

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Brewster.]
district of Pennsylvania, and on the question and point on
which the judges of that court were opposed in opunon, and
which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably' to
.the act of congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. on consideration whereof, this court is of
opinion, that the genuine instrument, of which the said false,
forged and counterfeited instrument, in the certificate of division mentioned, is in imitation, is not a bill issued by order
of the president, directors and company of the Bank of the
United States, according to the true intent and meaning of the
eighteenth section of the act of congress, passed on the 16th
day of April in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixteen, entitled, e'
an act to incorporate the subscribers of the Bank of the- United States:" whereupon it is
ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be certifiedto the
said circuit court of the district of Pennsylvania, that the
genuine instrument, of which the said false, forged and counterfeited instrument in the certificate of division mentionea is
in imitation, is not a bill issued by order of the president,-directors and company of the Bank of the United States, according
to the true intent and meaning of the eighteenth section of
the act of congress, passed on the 16th. day of April in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixteen,
entitled, "an act to incorporate the subscribers ot the Bank of
the United States."

