JANUARY TERM 1833.

GEORGE W WARD, AND RICHARD K. CALL, REGISTER AND
RECEIVER (U. S.), APPELLANTS V. LEWIS GREGORY.
SAME, APPELLANTS V. JACOB ROBINSON AND

F

SWEARINGEN.

A mandamus was issued by the superior court o appeals of the eastern middle district of Florida, directed to the register and receiver of the west'era Jand district of Florida, commanding them to permit the entry and
purchase of certain lands. From this proceeding, the register and receiver appealea to this court. The appea was disnussed; the proceeding at mandamus being at common law, an therefore the removal to this
court should have been by writ of error.

APPEALS from -thecourt of appeals for the territory of Florida.
Mr White moved to dismiss these cases, 6n the grounds that
the proceedings were at law m the courts of the United States
for .the territory of Florida, and that they had been brought
up from the court of appeals of that territory, by appeals instead of by writs of error.
On thd 13th December 1826, on. the application of the appellees to the superior court of, appeals for the middle district
of Florida, a mandamus-was issued directed to George W
Ward, the register, of the western land district of Florida, and
to Richard K. Call, receiver of public moneys ii said district,,
commanding them to permit the persons praying for the mandamus to enter and purchase certain sections of land, described
in the writ, under the provisions of the act of congress of the
22d of April 1826, which gave rights of pre-emption in
the purchase of land to certain settlers in the states of Ala.bama and Mississippi, and the territory of Flonda. From the
superior court, the case was removed by a writ of error, to the
court of 'appeals for the territory of Florida, and, on the 21st
of January 1831, the order of the superior court was affirmed
by the court of appeals. From this judgment the United
States appealed to this court.
The court ordered the appeal to be dismissed, the proceedings by mandamus being at common law, and therefore the
cases should have been brought up by writs of error.
VOL. VII.-4 E

