JANUARY TERM 1833.

113

JAMES S. DOUGLkSS AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN- ERROR V.
REYNOLDS, BYRNE AND CMPA 'f', DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

Action upon the following letter of guarantee, written by the defendants and
delivered to the plaintiffs
"Fort Gihson, Dozember 1827
"Messrs lizxzor.s, Byn.m & Co.
"Gentlemen Our friend, Mr Chester Haring, to assist hun m business,
may requre your aid, from time to time, either by acceptance or indorsement of his paper, or advances in cash, m order to save you. troiw harm
by so doing, we dolhereby bind ourselves, severally and jointly, to be responsible to you, at any time, for a sum not exceeding eight thousand
dollars, should the said Chester Haring &l to do so.
"Your obedient servants,
",JAxsS. DOUGT-AU6.
"JOHN (. SINGLErgTOIN.

"TuosrAs GOING."

One ount m the declaration was for money lent, and money had and received. Heldj that upon a collateral undertaking of tis sort, no such
suit is maintainable.
The depositions of several witnesses, clerks in the coun'ang-house of the
plaintifs, were admitted on the trial of the cause, in which the witnesses
stated that they knew that theletter of credit was considered by the plaintiffs as covering any balance due by C. H. to them for advances from time
to time, tothe amount of eight thousand dollars; that advances were raade,
andmoneys paid by them on account of C. H. from the time of receiwng
the said letter, predicated on the letter always protecting the plaintiffs to
the.'amount of eight thousand dollars; and that it was considered in the
counting-honse as a continuing letter of credit, and so acted upon by the
plaintiffs. Held, that this evidence was rightly admitted to establish
that credit had been given to (. H. on the faith of it, from time to time.
and thata; was treated by the plaintiffs as a continuing guarantee; so that
if, n point of law, it was entitled, to that character, the plaintiffs' claim
might not be open to the suggestion that no such advances, acceptances,
or indorsements had been made upon the credit of it The evidence was
not open to the, objection, that it was an attempt by parol evidence to
explain a'written contract.
Nothing can be clearer, upon principle, than that if a letter of credit is
given, but in fact no advances are made upon the faith of it, the party is
not entitled to recover for any debts due by im from the debtor in whose
favour it was given, which have been incurred subsequently to the guarantee, and witbnut any reference to it.
The guarantee given by the-defendants covered successive advances, acceptances and indorsements msi by the plaintiffs, to the amount of eight

VOL. VII.-P

SUPREME COURT
[Douglass and others v. Reynolds and others.]
thousand dollars at any subsequent times, toties quoties, whenever the antecedent transactions were discharged. It was a continuing guarantee.
Every instrument of tis sort ought to receive a fair and reasonable interpretation according to the true import of its terms. It being an efag%ment for the debt of another, there is certainly no reason for giving it
an expanded signification or liberal construction, beyond the fair import
of its terms.
The cases of Russell v. Clarke's Executors, 7 Cranch's Rep. 69. 2 Peters's
Condensed Reports, 417, and Drummond v. Prestman, 12 Wheat. Rep.
515, cited.
A party giving a letter of guarantee has a right to know whether it is accepted tnd whether the person to whom it is addressed, means to give
credit on the footing of it, or not. It maybe most material not only as to
"- responsibility, but as to future rights and proceedings. It may regulate, m a great measure, is course of conduct, and his exercise of vigtlance in regard to tie party in whose favour it is given. Especially itis
important in the case of a continuing guarantee; since it may guide his
judgment in recalling or suspending it.
If this had been the case of a guarantee limited to a single transaction, it
would have been the duty of the plaintiffs to have given notice of the
advances, acceptances or indorsements made under it, within a reasonable
time after they were made. But this being a coptinumg guarantee, in
which the parties .ontemplate a series of transactions, and as soon as the
defendants had received notice of the acceptance, they must necessarily
have undepstood that there would be tuccessive advances, acceptances,
and indorsements which would be renewed and discharged from time to
time; there is no general principle upon which to rest, that notice of
each successive transaction, as it arose, should be given. All that could
be required would be, that when all the transactions under the guatantee
were closed, notice of the amount for which the guarantors were responsible, should, within a reasonable time afterwards, be commumcated to
them.
A demand of payment of the~sum advanced under the guarantee, should be
made of the person to whom the same was made, and in case of non-%yment by him, notice of such demand and non-payment should have
been given in a reasonable time to the guarantors, otherwise they would
he discharged from the guarantee. By the very terms of this guarantee.
as well as by the general principles of law, the guarantors are only collaterally liable upon the failure of the principal debtor to pay the debt.
A demand upon him, and afa ure on is part to perform his engagements,
ar. indispensable to constitute a casus fiederis. The creditors are not
bousA to institute legal proceeding- against the debtor, but they are
ound to use reasonablediligence to mike demand and to give notice of
non-payment.
An account was stated betuween the plaintiffis and Chester Harin&g showihg
an apparent balance against Haring of twenty-two thousanu five hundred
and seventy-three dollars; and at the Toot of the account the plauntiff.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Douglass and others Y. Reynolds and others.]
gave a receipt for several promissory notes, payable at distant periods,
latea on the same day,with the account. The notes were drawn by C.
Haring, and indorsed by Danel Greenleaf The receipt itated that
"the notes, when discounted, the proceeds to go to the credit of this
account." The notes were discounted, and the proceeds received by
the plaintiffs, but, being unpaici, they were, r-tested; notice of their nonpayment was given to the indorsers, and they were afterwards taken up
by the plaintiffs as indorseis thereof. Held. if the plaintffs below, by
their indorsements, were compellable to pay, and -fid afterwards pay the
notes upon their dishonour by the maker, and these notes fell within the
scope of the guarantee, they mignt, without question, recover the amount
from the guaraItors.
He who receives any note -pon which third persons are responsible, a a
conditional payment ot it debt due to himself, is bound to use iue diligence to collect it of the parties thereto af maturity, otherwise by his
laches the debt will be discharged.

IN error to the district court of the United States for the distnct oi Mississippi.

This was an action on the case instituted in the district
crnurtby Reynolds, Byrne and Company against the defendants,
9D a letter of credit or guarantee, signed by them, and ad-

dreaged to the plaintiffs in the following terms

SPort Gibson, December 1827.
"Messrs REYNOLDS, BYRNE & Co.

"Gentlemen .- Our friend, Mr Chester Haring, to assist
him in business, may require your aid, from time to tine, either
by acceptance or mdorsement of his paper, or advances in cash;

m order to save you. from harm by so doing, we do hereby
bind ourselves, severally and jointly, to be responsible to you
at any time, for a sum not exceeding eight thousand dollars,

should the said Chester Haring fail to do so.
"Your obedient servants,
"JAMES S. DOUGLASS.
"JOHN G. SINGLETON.
"1THOMAS GOING."

This letter 9f credit was-delivered to the plaintifs; and, upon
they were in the habit of accepting and indorthe faith of it.
sing bills and making advances for Chester Hanng; and they
fjomn time to time received partial payments and consignments
of cbtton, to be sold by tlm and the proceeds placed to his
credit.

SUPREME COURT.
[Douglass and others v. Reynolds and others.]

The transactions between Chester Hanng and the plaintiffs
commenced after, the receipt of the letter of gualantee, and
continued until March or April 1829.
The first count in the declaration, after setting out the letter
of credit, charged that the plaintiffs did, on the faith of that
letter, "acmept and indorse the drafts or paper of said C.
Haring, to a large amount, to wit the sum of eight thousand
dollars, upon certain terms, and payable at the times expressed
in said drafts and paper of the said C. Haring, which said
drafts and paper of the said C. Haring, so accepted and
indorsed bv the plaintiffs as aforesaid, they, the plaintiffs. became liaole to pay, and, in consequence of their said acceptances
and indorsements, did take up, pay, and discharge the same.
at the maturity thereof." The count then charged the failure
of Haring to discharge or pay the paper so indorsed ana accepted by the plaintiffs, &c., and concludes with a general
breach of the guarantee of the defendants, &c.
.The second count was indebitatus assunpsit, for money lent,
had and received, &c., and the defendants pleaded the general
issue.
'The evidence upon which the questions of law arose, and
which were decided by the court, is fully stated in the opinion
of the court.
The case was argued by Mr Jones, for the plaintiffs in error;
and by Mr Taney, for the defendants.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error cited in the argument,
12 East, 227, 2 Camp. 214, 3 Camp. 220; Coburn v. The
Duke of Marlborough, 2 Maule and Selw. 18; 3 Barn. and
Aid. 93, 8 John. 119; 1 Mason, 323, 324, 3 Wheat. 150,
154, 1 Mason, 368; 2 Peters's Cond. Rep. .428, 2 Taunton,
306, 7 Wheat. 13, 1 Mason, 323, '9 Wheat. 720; 1 Stark.
Rep. 111, 2Ves. Jun. 540; 18 Yes. Jui. 20; 3 Menvale, 211,
1 Pothier on Obligations, 236, 260; 1 Domat. Civil Law, 205;
Civil Code of Louisiana, 954, 1. Cranch, 181, 3 Cranch,.311,
6 Cranch, 253, Peters's C. C. Rep. 262, 1 Mason, 368. 4
Greenleaf's Rep. 525; 2 len. Black. 613, 1 Bos. and Pul.
419; 2 Cranch, 92, 16 John. 67, 17 John. 134, 3 Peters's

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Douglass and others v. Reynolds and others.1

Cond. Rep. 438; 2 Taunt. 306, 3 John. 68, 248, 8 John,
384, 109; 7 Mass. 449; 11 John. 449; 11 John. 180 5 Mass.
170; 1 Serg. and Rawle, 334.
Mr Taney, for the defendants in error, cited, 2 Cranch's R.
413, 12 East, 227 2 Camp. 29; 3 Camp. 220; 12 Wheat.
518; 1 Mason, 324, 325, 336, 368, 370; 7 Cranch, 69; 5 Peters's Rep. 626, 627, 1 Bos. and 1 all. 418, 3 Wheat. 101,
20 John. 365, 366, 3 Wheat. 154, 12 Wheat. 186, 5 Cranch,
253, 1-Bos. and Pull. 421, 8 John. 389, 8 Serg. and Low.
Eng. Com. Law Rep. 10, 78, 1 Desaussure's Rep. 315, Fell
on Guarantee, 262, 12 Mass. 154, 3 Kent's Com. 78, 9
Greenleaf's Rep. 207, 210, 1 Wheat. 186, 12 Wheat. 186,
556, 11 Wheat. 75, 76.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes before us upon a writ of error to a judgment
of the district court of the distrct of Mississippi, in which the
plaintiffs in error are defendants in the court below.
The original action is founded upon a guarantee, given by
Douglass and others in favour of one Chester Haring, by the
following letter"Port Gibson, December 1807.
"Messrs REYNOLDS, BYRNE & Co.
"Gentlemen. -Our friend, Mr Chester Haring, to assist
him in business, may require your aid from time to time, either

by acceptance or indorsement of his paper, or advances in cash.
In order to save you fromihari. by so doing, we do hereby bind
ourselves, severally and jointly, to be responsible to you at any
time for.a stun not exceeding eight thousand dollars, should
the said Chester Harng fail to do so.
"Your obedient serv-ants,
"JAMES S. DOUGLASS.
THOMAS G. SINGLETON.
"THOMAS GOING."

The declaration contains two counts. The first alleges that,
upon the faith of the letter, the original plaintiffs accepted and
indorsed drafts or paper of Haring to the amount of eight thousand dollars, wbich they were obliged to pay, and did pay at

SUPREME COURT.
[Douglass and others v. Reynolds and others.]

the maturity thereof; and of which they gave due notice to the
defendants. The second count is for money lent, and money
had and received. But this may be laid entirely out of the
case, since it is very clear, that, upon a collateral undertaking
of this sort, no such suit is maintainable.
At the trial upon the general ssue and the plea of payment,
the plaintiffs, who are resident merchants at New Orleans,
offered evidence to prove the payment of five promissory notes,
dated on the 1st of May 1829, payable to Daniel Greenleaf or
order, and mdorsed by him, viz.. one note due on the 20th of
November 1829 for four thousand dollars; one due on the 20th
of December 1829.for four thousand five hundred dollars one
due on the 20th of January 1830 for five thousand five hundred
dollars; one due on the 20th of February 1830 for five thousand
five hundred dollars; and one due on the 20th of March 1830
for five thousand five hundred dollars, in the whole amounting
to twenty-five thousand collars; and that the notes had been
discounted witl the plaintiffs' indorsement thereon, and were
taken up by them at maturity.
It also appeared in evidence, that soon after the letter of
gu, rantee had been received, acceptance had been made of the
drafts of Haring by, the plaintiffs to the amount of eight thousand dollars; and that other large transactions of debt and
credit took place between them, upon which, on the 1st of May
1829, there was a balance of principal of twenty-two thousand
,five hundred and seventy-three dollars and twenty-three cents,
besides interest, due to the plaintiffs, and credits to a larger
amount than eight thousand dollars had come into possession
of the plaintiffs. And on that day the foregoing notes were
received, and the followmg-reeeipt written on the account contaimng the balance.
"Received, Port Gibson, May 1, 1829, in part and on account of the above account, and interest that may be due
thereon, the following notes, to wit, [enumerating them]
amounting in all to twenty-five thousand dollars, which notes,
when discounted, the proceeds to go to the credit of this account.
"REYNOLDs,

BIRNE & Co."

There was a good deal of othex evidence in the catise. but it

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Douglass And others v. Reynolds and others.]

does not seem necessary to state it at large, since no part of it
becomes important to a just understanding of the merits of the
controversy, as it now stands before us.
In, the progress of the trial the depositions of several witnesses who were clerks in.the counting house of the plaintiffs
were read, in which they staf -d, that they knew that the letter
of credit was considered by the plaintiffs as covering any balance
-due by Chester Haring to the plaintiffs, for advances from that
time to the extent of eight thousand dollars; and that advances
were made, and moneys paid by them on account of Harng
from the time of receiving the said letter of credit, predicated
on the said letter always protecting the plaintiffs to the amount
of eight thousand dollars, whenever the said amount or less
might be uncovered, and that it was considered in the said
counting house of the plaintiffs as a continuing letter of credit,
and so acted upon by the plaintiffs. To the admission of this
part 'f the depositions the defendants -objected, but the court
overruled the objection, and permitted the evidence tor be read
to the jury as evidence of the reliance of the plaintiffs upon.the
letter of credit to the amount of the eight thousand dollars, for acceptances, payments, advances and indorsements made to
Haring. The defendants excepted to this admission of the
evidence; and the propriety of this ruling of the court, constitutes the first question in the case.
We are of opinon that the evidence was rightly admitted
in th. view, and for the purposes stated by the court below.
It was ilot 9ffered to explain or establish the construction of
the letter of credit (See Russell v. Clarke, 3 Dall. 415, S. C.
7 Cranch's Rep. 69), whether it constituted a limited or a continumg guarantee, and was not thus open to the objection
which has been relied on at the bar, that it was an attempt by
parol evidence to explain awritten contract. It was admitted
simply to establish that credit had been given to He-Ing upon
the faith of it from time to time, and that it was treated by the
plaintiffs as a continuing gumarntee, so that if, in pant of law,
it was entitled to that character, the plaintiffs' claim might not
be open to the suggestion, that no such advances, acceptances
or indorsements had in fact been made upon the credit of it.
an objection which, if founded in fact, might have been fatal

SUPREME COURT.
[Douglass and others v. Reynolds and others.]
to their claim. Nothing can be clearer upon principle, than
that if a letter of credit is given, but in fact no advances are
made upon the faith of it; the party is not entitled to recover
for any debts due to him from the debtor, in whose favour it
was given, which have been incurred subsequently to the
guarantee, and without any reference to it.
The other exceptions are to certain nstructions prayed bv
the -defendants, and refused by the court.
They are as follows:
1. That the said 'letter of credit sued on is not a continuing
guarantee, but is a limited one, and that when an advance or
advances, acceptance or acceptances, indorsement or indorsements had been made by the plaintiffs on the faith of said
letter of credit to the amount of eight thousand dollars, the
guarantee became functus officio, and ceased to operate upon
any future advances, acceptances or indorsements, made by
said plaintiffs for Chester Hating. And that if the said plaintiffs received from said Hanng, in payment of their advances,
acceptances or indorsements, made on account of said guarantee, the amount of eight thousand dollars, it was a discharge
of said letter of guarantee; and that any future advances, acceptances or indorsements, cannot be charged against and
recovered from the defendants, by virtue of said letter of credit.
2. That to entitle the plaintiffs to recover on said letter of
guar'antee, they must. prove that notice had been given, in a
reasonable time after said letter of guarantee had been accepted
by them, to the defendants that the same had been accepted.
3. That to entitle the plamtiffs to recover on said letter nf
credit, they must prove that, in d reasonable time atter they
had made advances, acceptances or indorsements for said
Haring on the faith of said letters of guarantee, they gave notice to said defendants of the amount and extent thereof.
- 4. That to entitle the plaultiffs to recover on said- letter of
credit, they must prove that a demand of payment had been
made of Chester Haring, the principal debtor, of the debt sued
for; and in case of non-payment by him, that notice of such
demand and ncn-payment should have been given in a reasonable time to the defendants; and in failure of such proof, the
defendants are in law discharged.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(Douglass and others v. Reynolds and others.]

5. That the promissory notes, drawn by C. Haring, the
principal debtor, and indorsed by Daniel Greenleaf, and received
by the plaintiffs on the 1st of May 1829, as expressed in the
said receipt of that date at the end of their said account, and
the discounting the same in New Orleans by the plaintiffs after
they had indorsed the same for that purpose, the same being
discounted before they fell due, and the receipt of the net pro.
ceeds arising from the discounting, carned to the credit -of
Chester Hanng's account on the books of the plaintiffs, was a
discharge of the guarantors on said guarantee, provided the
debt now sued for was inclhded -in the sum total of said account, on account of which said promissory notes were taken
and receipted for.
6. That if the said notes,. mentioned in said receipt, were
received as conditional payments of said debt, the defendants
are discharged, unless it be proved that due diligence has-been
used to recover theamount called for by said notes from the
individuals responsible thereon, and that the same could not
be obtained.
7. That the plaintiffs, by accepting said notes on account of
said debt, from C. Haring, the principal debtor, with D. Greenleaf as mdorser, on account of said debt, the same being at
that time due, and receiving the money on the same by discounting them, and the passing said notes away by mdorsement, could not have sued Haring for the original debt, before
said notes fell due, dishonoured and returned, to the plaintiffs;
and that, therefore, they by their own act placed it out of their
power to proceed against said Haring, to recover said debt,
before said notes fell due and were returned to the plaintiffs,
which, in law, discharge the guarantors.
There was another exception, but it was withdrawn from the
cause by the defendants; and that, as well as another respecting the refusal of the court to sign the bill of exceptions, without incorporating in it the evidence given at the trial, may be
dismissed without commentary. It is proper to add, however,
that the conduct of the court in relation to the bill of excepSions constitutes no just matter of error revisable in tlus form of
proceeding; and if it did, we see no reason-to question the propriety of its conduct upon the present occasion. It is niamVOL. VII.--Q

SUPREME COURT
[Douglass and others v. Reynolds and others.)

festly proper for the court to require that all the evidence which
is explanatbry of the true points of the exceptions should be
brought before the appellate court, to assist it in forming a correct judgment.
The question involved in the first instruction is, whether the
guarantee contained in the letter is a limited or a continuing
guarantee; or, in other words, whether it covered advances,
acceptances and indorsements, in the first instance to the
amount of eight thousand dollars, and terminated when these
were discharged, or whether it covered successive advances,
acceptances and indorsements made to the same amount at
any future times, toties quoties, whenever the antecedent transactions were discharged. Upon deliberate consideration, we
are of opinion, that it is a continuing guarantee; and we found
ourselves upon the language, and the apparent intent and
object of the letter. Every instrument of 'this sort ought to
receive a fair and reasonable interpretation, according to !he
true import of its terms. It being an engagement for the debt
of another, there is certainly no reason for giving it an expanded signification, or liberal construction beyond the fair
import of the terms. It was observed by this court in Russell
v. Clarke's Executors, 7 Cranch, 69, S. C. 2 Peters's Cond.
Rep. 417, that "the law will subject a man, having no interest in the transaction, to pay the debt of another only when
his undertaking manifests 'a clear intention to bind hinmself for
that debt. Words of doubtful import ought not, it is conceived,
to receive that construction." On the other hand, as these
instruments are of extensive use in the commercial world, upon
the faith of which large credits and advances are made, care
should be taken to hold the party bound to thea full extent of
what appears to be Ins engagement, and for this purpose it
was recognized by this court in Drummond v. Prestnian, 12
Wheat. Rep. 515, as a rule in expounding them, that the
words of the guarantee are to be taken as strongly agahst the
guarantor as th6 sense will admit, Fell on Guarantee, ch. 5,
p. 129, &c.. and the sane rule was adopted in the kuig's bench
in Mason v. Pritchard, 12 East's Rep. 227.
If we examine the language or object of the present letter,
we think it is difficult to escape from the conclusion, that it

JANUARY TERM 1833
[Douglass and others v. Reynolds and others.

was intended, and was understood by all the parties as a continuing guarantee. There is no doubt that it was so inter,preted by the plaintiffs. The object is to assist Haring m
business: " our friend Mr Chester Haring," to assist him "in
business, may require your aid." It was not contemplated to
be a single transaction, or an unbroken series of transactions
for a limited period. The aid required was to be "from time
to time,, either by acceptance or indorsement of is paper, or
advances in cash." The very nature of such negotiations,
with reference to the business of the party, iless other controlling words accompanied them, would seem to indicoto a
succession of acts at different periods, having no definite ternination, or necessary qonnemon with each other. The language
of the letter then proceeds: "in order to save yot from harm
in so doing we do hereby bind ourselves, &c. to be responsible
to you at any time, for a sum not excbeding. eight thousand
dollars, should the said Chester Haring fail so to do." It is
difficult to satisfy this language without giving to the guaranfee a continuing operation. The parties agree to be responsible at any time for a sumi not exceeding eight thousand dollars; and if so, is not the natural, nay necessary'inport, that
the acceptances, indorsements and advances are not limited, m
duration, but that whenever made, and at whatever future
times, the same responsibility shall attach upon them, no. exceeding eightlthousand dollarsQ *We think that it would be
difficult to gtve any other interpretation to the language; without subjecting mercantile papers to refinements and subttleu.
which would betray innocent men into the most severe losses,
by an unsuspecting confidence in them. That the language,
fairly admits of, if it does not absolutely require this coustruco-,
tion, cannot be doubted. If it does so, it is but commoi. justace
that it should receive this construction, in favour of innoceat
parties, who have made acceptances, indorsements -and advances upon the faith of it; according to the rule already staled,
that the words shall be taken as "strongly against the party
using them as the sense will admit.
It is rare, that in cases of guarantee the language of the
instruments is such as to make the decision upon one an exact
authority for that of another The wlole words and clauses

SUPREME COURT.
[Douglass and others v. Reynolds and others.]

are to be construed together, and that ense is to be given to
each, which best comports with the general scope andi£ntent
of the whole. So far as authorities. go, however, we think they
are decidedly in favour of the interpretation which we have
ado pted. In Mason v. Pritchard, 12 East's Rep. 227, S. C.
2 Camp. 436, the words of the guarantee were, "to be responsible for any goods he hath or may oupply my brother with to
the amount of one hundred poulnds;" and the court were of
opinion that it was a continuing or standing guarantee to the
extent of one hundred pounds, which might at any time become due for goods supplied until the credit was recalled.
That case was certainly founded upon words less expressive
and cogent than those of the cae before us. In Merle v.
Wells, 2 Camp. Rep. 413, the guarantee was, 11I consider
myself bound to you for any debt he (my brother) may contract for is business as a jeweller, not exceeding one hundred
pounds, after this date. Lord Ellenborough held it a continuing guarantee for any debt not exceeding one hundred pounds,
which the brother might from time to time contract with the
plaintiffs in the way of Ins business; and that the guarantee
was not confined to one instance, but applied to debts successively renewed. The case of Sansom v. Bell, 2 Camp. Rep.
$9, before the same learned judge, is to the same effect. The
case of Barton v. Bennet, 3 Camp. Rep. 220, was upon words
far less stringent. There the guarantee was, "1Ihereby undertake and engage to be answerable to the extent of three hundred pounds for any tallow or soap supplied by B. to F and B.,
provided they shall neglect to pay in due time." Lord Ellenborough yield it a continuing guarantee, principally upon the
force of the word any; but the case went off upon another
point.
'The cases cited on the other side are all distinguishable.
.IKirby v. iPhe Duke of Marlborough, 2 Maule and Selw. 18,
turned upon the ground that the whole recital of the bond
showed that a limited guarantee, for advances to a definite
amount, when they were made the. guarantee, became functus
officio. In Melville v. Hayden, 3 Barn. and Ald. 593, the
guarantee was, "I engage to guaranty the payment of A. to
the extent of sixty pounds-at quarterly account, bill two months,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(Douglass and others v. Reynolds and others.]

for, goods to be purchased by him of B. ;" and the court held,
that it was not a continuing guarantee, as the words "quarterly account" imported only the first quarterly account, and
relied on the word "any" in Mason v. Pritchard, as distingushmg that case from the one before them. The case of
Rogers v. Warner, 8 Johns. Rep..119, was on a guarantee in
these words. "If A. and B., our sons, wish to take goods of
you on credit, we are willing to lend our names as security for
any amount they may wish;" and the court held it to be a
limited guarantee for a single credit. It is observable, that here
no words of continuing credit, such as "from time to time," or
"at any time" are used, so that the whole language is satisfied
by one transaction. It is, therefore, strongly distinguishable
from that before this court.
We cannot admit, therefore,. as has been contended at'the
bar, that the courts have inclined to vary the rule of construction of instruments of this nature, and to held them to be
strictissun juns, as to their interpretation. And we are well
satisfied, that the authorities in no degree interfere with the
construction which we have given to the terms of the present
letter. The court below were, then, right in refusing the first
instruction.
The second instruction insists, that to entitle the plaintiffs
to recover on the guarantee, they must prove that notice had
been given to the defendants of that fact in a reasonable time
after the guarantee had been accepted. Whether there was
not evidence before the jury sufficient to have justified them in
drawing the conclusion that there was such notice, we do not
inquire. It is sufficient for us to declare, that in point. of
law, the instruction asked was correct, and ought to have been
given. A party giving a -letter of guarantee has a right to
know whether it is accepted, and whether the person to whom
it is addressed means to give credit on the footing of it, or not.
It may be most matenal, not only as to his responsibility, but
as to future rights and proceedings. It may regulate, in a
great measure, his course of conduct and his exercise of vigilance in regard to the party in whose service it is given. Especially is it mpQrtant in the case of a continuing guarantee, since
it may guide his judgment in recalling or suspending-it.

SUPREME COURT
[Douglass and others v. Reynolds and others.]

The third instruction insists, that to entitle the plaintiffs to
recover on the guarantee, they must prove that, in a reasonable
time after they had made advances, acceptances or indorsements for Haring on the faith of the guarantee, they gave
notice to the defendants of the amount and extent thereof. If
this had been the case of a guarantee limited to a single trainsaction, there is no doubt that it would have been the duty of
the plaintiffs to have given notice of the advances, acceptances
or indorsements made to Haring, within a reasonable time after
they were made. But this being a continuing guarantee, in
which the parties contemplated a series of transactions, and as
soon as the defendants had received notice of the acceptance,
they must necessarily have understood that there would be
successive advances, acceptances and indorsements, which
would be renewed and discharged from time to time, we cannot per eive any ground of principle or policy, upon which to
rest th doctrine that notice of each successive transaction, as
it arose, should be given. All that could be required would
be, that when all the transactions- between the plamntiffs and
Haring under the guarantee were clesed, notice of the amount
for which the guarantors were held responsible, should, within
a reasonable time afterwards, be commumcated to them. And
if the instruction had asked nothing more than this, we are of
opinion, upon principle, as well as upon the authority of Russell v. Clarke's Executors, 7 Cranch, 69, S. C. 2 Peters's
Cond. Rep. 417, and Edmondston v. Drake, 5 Peters's Rep.
624, that it ought to have been given. Oxley v. Young, 2 H.
Bl. 613, Peet v. Tatlock, 1 Bos. and Pull. 419. But it goes
much further, and requires, in the case of a continuing guaran.tee, that every successive transaction under it should be communicated from time to time. No case has been cited which
lustifies such a doctrine, and we can perceive no principle of
law Wich requires it. The instruction was therefore properly
refused.
The fourth instruction inists, that a demand of payment
should have been made of Haring, and, in case of non-payment
by him, that.notice of such demand and non-payment should
have been given in a reasonable time to the defendants, otherwise the defendants would be discharged from their guarantee.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Douglass and others v. Reynolds and others.]

We are of opinion that this instruction ought to have been
been given. By the very terms of-this guarantee, as well as
by the general principles of law, the guarantors are only collaterally liable upon the failure of the principal debtor to pay
the debt. A demand upon him, and a failure on his part to
perform his engagements are indispensable to constitute a casus
fcadens. The creditors are not indeed bound to institute any
legal proceedings against the debtor, but they are required to
use reasonable diligence to make demand, and to give notice
of the non-payment. The guarantors are not to be held to
any length of indulgence of credit which the creditors may
choose; but have a right to insist that the risk of their responsibility shall be fixed, And terminated within a reasonable time
after the debt has become due(a). The case of Allen v. Rightmere, 20 Johns. Rep. 365, is distinguishable. There the note
was payable to the defendant himilf or order, at a future day,
and he indorsed it with a special guarantee ofits due payment;
and the court held his engagement absolute, and not conditional.
The fifth instruction insists that the pronussory notes mentioned in the receipt of the let of May 1829, when discounted,
and the proceeds carried to the account of Haring, operated a
discharge of the guarantors, provided the debt sued for was
included in the sum total of the accQunt for which those notes
were'received. We think that the court were not bound under
the circumstances to give this instruction. It proceeds upon
the ground, that the notes were necessarily received as an
absolute payment, a fact which the court had no right to
assume, and that, by indorsing the notes and procuring the
same to be discounted and credited in the account, the guarantee was, per se, discharged. This is not correct in point of
law; for if the plaintiffs, by their indorsements, were compellable to pay, and did afterwards pay the notes upon their dishonour by .the maker, and these notes fell within the scope of
the guarantee, they might, without question, recover the
amount from the guarantors.
(a) See on this subject Ar Wheaton's noteto Lanusse v. Barker, 3 Wheat.
Rep.- 154, 155.

-SUPREME COURT.
[Douglass and others v. Reynolds and others.]

The sixth instruction asserts, that if the notes mentioned in
.the receipt, were received as conditional payments of the said
debt, the defendants are discharged, unless it is proved that
due diligence hd been used to recover the amount of them
from the individuals responsible thereon, and that the same
could not be obtained. If, by the word "recover," were here
intended a reoovery by a suit at law, the proposition could not
be maintained. Bfit if, as we suppose, it is used in the sense
of collect or obtain, its correctness, as a general proposition m
cases of conditional payments of debts by notes, is admitted.
He who receives any note upon which third persons are responsible, as a conditional- payment of a debt due to himself, is
bound to use due diligence to collect it of the parties thereto
at maturity, otherwise by his laches the debt will be discharged. The difficulty is in applying the doctrine to the
circumstances of the present case in the actual form in which
it is propounded in the instruction. It assumes, as matter of
fact, what*the court cannot intend, that the notes were received as conditional payment. It does nut asseit what the
debt is to which it alludes; though it probably refers to the
debt stated in the account connected with the receipt. Now,
that account is not in terms sued for, but certain drafts
amounting to eight thousand dollars, accepted and indorsed,
and paid by the plaintiffs and whether they were included in
the account or not, was matter of evidence and not matter of
law. Although then the instruction asserted a proposition
generally true in point of law, it is not clear, that, in the very
terms in which it is propounded, with. reference to the case in
judgment, the court were bound to give it, since it involved
matters of fact.
The seventh instruction is open to a similar objection. It
manifestly assumes, as its basis, general questions -of.fact,
upon which the -court had no right to pronounce judgment.
It also supposes that the debt sued for is wholly confined to
the account, and that the notes referred to were not within the
scope of the guarantee, and, if paid by the plaintiffs, could not
be recovered by the defendants; which is far from being admitted. Indeed, this, and several of theprecedinginstructions
proceed upon thL ground, that the guarantee was a limited

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(Douglass and others v. leynolds and others.]

and not a continuing guarantee, which. construction has been
already overturned.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the court below
erred in refusing the seconl and fourth instructions prayed by
the defendants, and that for these errors the judgment must
be reversed, and the cause remanded to the district court of
Mississippi with directions to award a venire facias de novo.

This cause came on to be hearidon the transcript of the record from the district court of the United States for the district
of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel, on consideration
whereof, it is the opinion of this court that the court below
erred in refusing the second and fourth instructions prayed by
the defendants, and that for these errors the judgment must be
reversed. Whereupon, it is adjudged and ordered by this
court, that the judgment of the said district court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby remanded to the said district court with
directions to award a venre facias de novo.

VOL. VII.-R

