608

SUPREME COURT.

WALTER BRASHEAR, APPELLANT V. FRANCIS WEST, THOMAS
M. WILLING AND HENRY NIXON, EXECUTORS OF JOHN NIXON DECEASED, AND HENRY NIXON, SAMUEL MIFFLIN AND
JOHN LAPSELEY, ASSIGNEES OF FRANCIS WEST, APPELLEES.
FRANCIS WEST, HENRY NIXON, SURVIVING EXECUTOR OF JOHN
NIXON DECEASED, AND HENRY NIXON, SAMUEL MIFFLIN
AND JOHN LAPSELEY, ASSIGNEES OF FRANCIS WEST, APPELLANTS V. WALTER BRASHEAR, APPELLEE.
It is not necessary to the validity of a deed of assignment for the benefit of
creditors, that creditors should be consulted; though the propriety of
pursuing such a course will generally suggest it, when they can be conveniently assembled. But be this as it may, it cannot be necessary that
the fact should appear on the face of the deed.
That a general assignment of all a man-sproperty is per se fraudulent, has
never been allegedin this country. The right to make it results from the
absolute ownership which every man claims over that which is his own.
An assignment was made by Francis West, to certain trustees of all his
property, giving a preference to particular creditors; who were to be paid
their claims in full, before any portion of the property assigned was to be
divided among his other creditors. By the court the preference given
in this deed to favoured creditors, though liable to abuse, and perhaps to
serious objections, is the exercise of a power resulting from the ownership-of property which the law has not yet restrained. It cannot be
treated as a fraud.
The assignment excluded from the benefit of its provisions, all creditors
who should not within ninety days, execute a release of all claims ano
demands on the assignor of any nature or.kind whatsoever. By the court:
This stipulation cannot operate to the exemption of aby portion of a
debtor's property, from the payment of his debts. If a surplus should remain after their extinguishment, that would be rightfully his. Should the
,fund not be adequate, no part of it is relinquished. The creditor releases
his claim only to the future labours ofhis debtor. If this release were voluntary, it would be unexceptionable. But it is induced by the necessity
arising from the certainty of being postponed to all those creditors who
shall accept the terms, by giving.the release. It is not therefore vohintary. Humanity and policy both plead so strongly in favour of leaving
the product of his future labours to the debtor, who has surrendered all
his property, that in every commercial country known to the court, except
our own, the principle is established by law. This certainly furnishes a
very imposing argument against its being denied. The objection is pertamly powerful, that it tends to delay creditors. If there be a surplus,
the surplus is placed in some degree out of the reach of those who do

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Brashear v. West and others.]
not sign the release, and thereby entitle themselves under the deed. But
the property is not entirely locked up. A court ofequity, exercising chancery jurisdiction, will compel the execution of the trust, and decree what
may remain to those creditors who have not acceded to the deed. Yet
the court are far from being satisfied, that upon general principle, such a
deed ought to be sustained.
Whatever maybe the mtrinsic weight of objections to such assignments, they
seem not to have prevailed m Pennsylvania. The construction which the
courts of that state have put on the Pennsylvama statute of frauds, must
be received in the courts of the United States.
The assignment transferred to the assignees a debt due to the assignor bythe
complainant. The complainant filed a bill against the assignees, claiming
to set off against the-debt assigned to them, the amount of ajudgment obtained by him against the assignor, after the assignment. By the court: if
subsequent to the assignment being made, and before notice of it, any
counter claims be acquired by a debtor to the assignor, these claims may,
unquestionably, be sustained. But if they be acquired after notice, equity.
will not sustain them. If it were even true that they miglt have been
offered in evidence in a suit at law brought in the name of the assignor, he
who neglected to avail himself of that advantage, cannot, afterjudgment,
avail himself of such discount as plaintiff in equity.
To deprive a party of the fruits of a jddgment at law, it must be against
conscience that he should enjoy them. The party complaiping, must
show that he has more equity than the party m whose favour the law has
decided.
Construction of the laws of Pennsylvania relative to foreign attachments.

APPEALS from the circuit court of the United States for th
district of Kentucky.
These cases were argued by Mr Bibb for the appellant,
Walter Brashear; and by Mr Sergeant and Mr Peters, for the
appellees.
Mr Chief Justice MARSUALL deliverea the opinion of the
Court.
These are appeals from a decree pronounced in the court of
the United States for the seventh circuit and district of Kentucky, on a bill filed by Walter Brashear, on which an injunction was awarded to stay proceedings on two judgments obtained against him in that court, by Francis West. The final
decree perpetuated the injunction as to the sum of four thousand and eleven dollars ;and sixty-eight cents, the supposed
VOL. VII.-4 B

SUPREME COURT.
[Brashear v. West and others.]

amount of a judgment obtained against the complainant as
special bail for West, and disrms~ed the bill as to the residue,
with ten per cent damages thereon. Both parties have appealed to this court.
Francis Brashear, the plaintiff, a resident of Kentucky, being
in Philadelphia, executed two notes on the 28th of February
1807, to Francis West, a citizen of Philadelphia, for three thousand five hundred and twenty-seven dollars and eighty-two
cents each, payable fifteen months after date. On the 13th of
July 1808, he executed a paper writing, m Kentucky, acknowledging the balance of an account due from himself to West,
amounting to two thousand one hundred and forty-seven dollars and seventy-six cents.
The two notes, executed in February 1807, were assigned
soon after their date to John Nixon of Philadelphia. as collateral security for a debt due from West to him.
On the 21st of April 1807, West assigned all his estate to
trustees to be sold, and the money paid, first to certain preferred
creditors, and afterwards to his creditors generally; with a proviso that no creditor should be entitled to receive any dividend
who should not, within ninety days from the date of the deed,
execute a release of all claims and demands upon the said
Francis West, of any nature or sort whatsoever.
The plaintiff was also indebted to James Latimer of Philadelphia, to whom he consigned a quantity of ginseng with
instructions to pay the proceeds, after discharging his own
debt, to certain other creditors of the consignor, pro rata.
On the 10th of December 1808, James Latimer, to prevent
other creditors, as he alleges, from obtainig a prior lien on the
property in his hands, sued out a foreign attachment against
the effects of Brashear, summoning himself as garishee, and
requiring bail in the sum of eight thousand dollars. He gave
immediate notice of this proceeding to Brashear.
Early in the year 1809, he took a large part of the ginseng
to himself, as purchaser, at six months credit, which he shipped
on his own account to China, in March of that year. In the
following May he shipped the residue, on account of himself
and William Redwood.
On the 11th of March 1809, Frarncis West'sued out a foreign
attachment to the use of his assignees, against Brashear, and

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Brashear v. West and others.)

summoned Latimer as garnishee. The process was executed
the 7th of April.
On the 23 of September 1809, an attactment was sued out
by Nixon's executors, which was returned executed on the 9th
of October.
The attachments sued out in the name of West, by his
assignees, and by Nixon's executors, were prosecuted to judgment.
In August 1811, James Latimer became insolvent, and
assigned all his property for the benefit of his creditors. His
debt to Brashear amounted to four thousand nine hundred and
eighty-five dollars and thirty-five cents; no part of which could
be collected, his whole estate being absorbed by preferred

creditors.
Suits were instituted, in the name of Francis West, on the
notes assigned to John Nixon, and on the acknowledged
account herein before mentioned, in the circuit court of the
United States for the district of Kentucky, and judgments obtained thereon. A billwas filed by Walter Brashear to be
relieved from these judgments.
The bill alleges that the assignment to Nixon, and also that to
Miffin and others, trustees for general creditors, are fraudulent
and void. It also alleges, that in September 1808, the plain.
tiff had become special bail for the said Francis in a suit instituted against him in one of the courts of Kentucky, by a certain
George Anderson, in which judgment was obtained against
him, and afterwards against the plaintiff as his special bail, for
the sum of four thousand and eleven dollars and sixty-eight
cents. That on the 3d day of November 1808, the said Francis West received for the plaintiff one hundred -and twenty
dollars, from the commissioner of loans-in the city of Philadelphia, on account of the claim of William Bush, to which the
plaintiff was entitled. And that the said Francis West was
responsible for the money lost by the plaintiff in the hands of
James Latimer; that loss having been caused by tbe attachments sued out to attach his effects in the hands of the said
Latimer, and by the negligent and illegal manner in which the
said attachments were prosecuted.
The answers admit that the assignment to Nixon was made
for the purpose of securing a debt due to him, amounting to

SUPREME COURT.
[Brashear v. West and others.]

rather more than two thousand dollars. They insist that the
assignment to Mifflin and others, for the benefit of the creditors
of West, was fair and legal, and that Brashear had notice of it
before he became special bail for West at the suit of Anderson.
They contend that the attachments were legal, and were
conducted regularly, and without fraud.
James Latimer, who was sworn as a witness, deposes that
he shipped part of the ginseng on his own account, before the
attachments were laid by the assignees of West, and that he
shipped the residue after the attachment sued out by Mifflin
and others, trustees for the creditors, had 'been served. He
says there was not any collusion, agreement or consent between the executors of Mr Nixon, or the assignees of Mr West
and himself, that the property or money attached should remain in his hands, should be shipped abroad, or used or disposed of in any way; other than the consent of the assignees of
Mr West, that the ginseng might be sold, which consent was
after their attachment, and before that of Mr Nixon's executors; nor was there any consent on the part of the said assignees
or executcfs to any delay or procrastination of payment on his
part.
The court admitted and allowed the claim to a set off for
the money paid by the plaintiff as special bail for West, at the
suit of Anderson, but rejected.the other claims.
It is admitted that Nixon's executors have no interest in the
notes assigned to their testator, beyond the debt intended to be
secured, and to that extent their claim cannot be controverted.
The suggestions made in the bills against it, are unsupported,
and are denied in the answer.
The first inquiry is into the validity of the general assignment to Mifflin and others, trustees for the creditors of West.
This instrument conveys to Samuel- Mifflin, John Lapseley
and Henry Nixon, all his estate, real, personal and mixed, in
trust to sell the same as soon as conveniently may be, and to
collect all debts due to the said West, and to pay and discharge
the debts due from hun, first to certain preferred creditors, and
afterwards to creditors generally, "provided, nevertheless, that
none of the above described creditors shall be entitled to receive
any part or dividend of the property hereby conveyed, or its
proceeds, who shall not, within ninety days from The date

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Brashear v. West and others.]
hereof, sign and execute a full and complete release of all
claims and demands upon the said Francis West, of any nature or sort whatsoever."
This deed was executed on the 21st day of April 1807, was
acknowledged before the mayor of the city of Philadelphia on
the 22d, and was recorded in the proper office of the city and
county on the 27th of the same month. Its validity appears
never to have been questioned in the state of Pennsylvama.
The objections made to it in argument are,
1. That the creditors were not consulted.
2. That they do not appear to have assented to the deed.
3. That possession was not delivered.
4. That the assignment is in general terms.
5. That it excludes all creditors who shall not, within ninety
days, execute a release of all claims and demands on the said
Francis West, of any naf,ure or sort whatsoever.
1. It is not necessary to the validityof a deed of assignment
that creditors should be consulted, though the propriety of
pursuing such a course will generally suggest it, where they
can be conveniently assembled. But be this at it may, i cannot be necessary that the fact should appear on the face of the
deed. Had it been material, it ought to have been suggested
in the bill. The fact would then have been put in issue, and
might have been proved.
2. The same answer may be given to the second objection.
The bill does not' allege the refusal of the creditors to assent
to the deed of assignment. That fact is not put in issue.
The acceptance of the trust by the trustees, and the acquiescence of the creditors for more than twenty years, afford presumptive evidence in favour of their assent and that is sufficient, in a case in which it is not made a subject of direct
inquiry by the pleadings.
3. The real estate passed by delivery of the deed. The
claims on Brasbear were not objects of delivery. -They could
be assigned only in equity, and notice, when given, consummated the assignment. The question of deliveryis not made
in the proceedings. It is not alleged that West retained' possession of any part of the property conveyed in the deed.
Fraud may be given in evidence, but is not to be presumed.

SUPREME COURT.
[Brashear v. West and others.]

4. It is also objected that the assignment is in general terms,
and that no schedule of the, property.is annexed.
That a general assignment of all a man's property is, per se,
fraudulent, has never been alleged in this country The right
to make it results from that absolute ownership which every
man claims over that which is his own. That it is a circumstance entitled to consideration, and in many cases to weighty
consideration, is not to be controverted. If a man were. to
convey his whole estate, and afterwards to contract debts,
there would be much reason, to suspect a secret trust for his
own benefit. The transaction would be closely inspected, and
a sweeping conveyance of his whole property would undoubtedly form an important item m the testimony to establish
fraud. So, in many other cases which might- be adduced.
But a conveyance of all his property. for the payment of his
debts, is not of this description. It is not of itself calculated to
excite suspicion. Creditors have an equitable- claim on all the
property of their debtor; and it is his duty, as well as his right,
to dev6te the whole of it to the satisfaction of their claims.
The exercise of this right by the honest performance of this
duty cannot be deemed a fraud. If transferring every part of
his property, separately. to individual creditors in payment ot
their several debts, would be not only fair but laudable, it cannot be fraudulent to transfer the whole to trustees for the
benefit of all.
In England such an assignment could not be supported, because it is by law an act of bankruptcy, and the law takes possession of a bankrupt's estate and disposes of it. But, in the
United States, where no bankrupt law exists for setting aside a
deed honestly made for transferring the whole of a debtor's
estate, for the payment of his debts; the preference given m this
deed to favoured creditors, though liable to abuse, and perhaps
to serious objections, is the exercise of a power resulting from
the ownership of property, which the law has not yet restrained.
It cannot be treated as a fraud.
5. The fifth and most serious objection is, that the deed
excludes all creditors who shall nQt within ninety days execute
a release of all claims and demands on the said Francis West,
of any nature or kind whatsoever.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Brashear v. West and others.]

The stipulation cannot operate to the exemption of any portion of a debtor's property from the payment of his debts. If a
surplus should remain after their extinguishment, that would
be rightfully his. Should the fund not be adequate, no part
of it is relinquished. The creditor releases his claim only to
the future labours of his debtor. If this release were voluntary, it would be unexceptionable. But it is induced by the
necessity arising from the certainty of being postponed to all
those creditors who shall accept the terms by giving the release.
It is not therefore voluntary. Humanity and policy however
both plead so strongly in favour of leaving the product of his
future labour to the debtor, who has surrendered all his property, that, in every commercial country known to us, except
our own, the principle is established by law. This certainly
furnishes a veryimposing argument against its being deemed
fraudulent.
The objection is certainly powerful, that its tendency is to
delay creditors. If there be a surplus, this surplus is placed,
in some degree, out of the reach of those who do not sign
the release, and thereby entitle themselves under the deed.
The weight of this argument is felt. But the property is
not entirely locked up. A court of equity, or courts exercising chancery jurisdiction, will compel the execution of the
trust, and decree what may remain to those creditors who have
not acceded to the deed. Yet we are far from being satisfied
that, upon general principles, such a deed ought to be sustained.
But whatever may be the intrinsic weight of this objection,
it seems not to have prevailed in Pennsylvania. The construction which the courts .of that state have put on the Pennsylvania statute of frauds must be received in the courts of the
United Siates.
In Lippincott and Annesly v. Barker, .2 Binney, 174, this
question arose, and was decided, after elaborate argument, in
favour of the validity of the deed. This decision was made in
1809, and has, we understand, been considered ever since as
setfted law.
In Pierpoint and Lord v. Graham, 4 Wash. Rep. 232, the
same question was made, and was decided by Judge Washington in favour of the validity of the deed. This decision was

SUPREME COURT.
[Brashear v. West and others.]

made in 1816. We are infc.ned of no contrary decision in
the state of Pennsylvama, and must consider it as the settled
construction of their statute. The validity of the deed cannot
now be controverted, no actual fraud being imputed to it.
2. The assignment.of the debt due from Brashear to West
being valid in equity, has Brashear a right to set off, in equity,
against judgments obtained for the use of the assignees in the
name of West, his claims against West for the money paid to
Anderson, and for the money received on Bush's claimQ
The, question, whether he might have availed himself of
these offsets at law, dozs not now arise. Can he avail himself
of them as plaintiff in equity"
That a chose in action is assignable in equity, is not controverted. Equity will protect and enforce the assignment. If
subsequent to its being made, and, before notice of it, any counter claims be acquired by the debtor, these claims may unquestionably be sustained. But if they be acquired after notice,
equity will not sustain them. If it were even true that they
might have been offered in evidence in a suit at law brought
in the name of the assignor, he who has neglected to avail
himself of that advantage, cannot, after the. judgment, avail
himself of such discounts as plaintiff in equity. To deprive a
party of the fruits of a judgment at law, it must be against
conscience that he should enjoy them. The party complaining must show that he has more equity than the party in
whose favour the law has decided. This cannot be done in
a case like the present, unless the equity of the debtor accrued
before notice of the assignment. The right to these discounts
then depends on the fact of notice.
The assignment was made on the 21st of April 1807. In
September 1808, Brashear became special bail for West in a
suit instituted by George Anderson. The bill alleges that at
the time of becoming special bail, Brashear had no notice of the
assignment. The answer avers that he had notice.
It is contended, in argument, that the fact of notice is not
sufficiently proved by the answer. This cannot be admitted.
The defendant has a judgment at law, and the plaintiff comes
into court to set aside that judgment by his superior equity.
He must show that equity
A circumstance apnears in evidence which has some ten-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
Brashear v. West and others.]

dency to support the answer. In July 1808, the account was
settled between Brashear and West, and the balance acknowledged. This account calculates interest up to the 21st of
April 1808, the. day on which the assignment was made; and
strikes the balance on that day. The coincidence -countenances the belief that the calculation of interest stopped on
that day, because the account was then transferred, and increases the probability that West, who acknowledged the
account, was informed of the reason.
We think then that r rashear, having had notice of the
assignment when he became special bail for West, cainot be
permitted to set off the money paid on that account against
the judgment, unless he was induced to trust 'rest by the
conduct of the assignees. Of this we find no evidence in the
record.
The money received by West for Bush's claim is a still
later transaction, and is consequently subject to the same rule.
5. The last point to be considered is the claim of Braslbear
to compensation for the loss of the money attached in the
hands of Latimer.
The bill charges that this money would have been paid by
Latimer, had he not been restrained by .the attachments; that
those suits were wilfully or negligently procrastinated by the
plaintiffs, whose duty it was to have brought them to a conclusion, an *to have obtained the money which ought to have
been adjudged to them, before Latimer became insolvent, and
farther, that the effects attached ought to have been secured
by measures Ahich the law'authorized, but which were totally
omitted.
The answers deny these charges, and aver that the suits
were prosecuted with diligence, and every step taken to secure
the debts which the law prescribed.
The first impVession would be that the creditors who sued out
their attachments were desirous of obtaining their money, and
would not intentmonally interpose obstacles to the accomplishment of their object. It may-also be stated with some confidenge, that those who sue out process authoizcd by law, are
not Csponsible for the loss corsequent'from that process, unless
that loss is produced by the improper use made of it. . The
charges made. iii the bill and dcnied in the-answers, must be
VOL. VII.-4 C

SUPREME COURT.
fBrashear v. West and others.]

supported by evidence, or the plaintiff cannot prevail. He
relies on the proceedings in the attachment as furnishing thi's
evidence.
The writ sued out by the assignees of Francis West, in his
name, was returnable to June term 1809. The defendant not
appearing,judgmentwas rendered against him at the third term,
on the 20th of January 1810; which was as soon as by the
course of the court it was attainable. No further step appears
to have been taken in this cause. The court is net satisfied
that, had a scire, facias been sued out against the garnishee,
judgment could have been obtained before lie became insolvent.
Nixon's executors sued out their attachment in October
1809, and obtained judgment at the third term by default.
A writ of inquiry of damages was awarded in March and
executed in June term 1811, and final judgment rendered for
eight thousand three hundred and twenty-eight dollars and
thirty cents, the damages assessed by the jury A scire facias
was immediately sued out against Latimer, the garnishee, returnable to September court. In the preceding August, Latimer became insolvent.
The only delay with which Nixon's executors can be chargeable is the interval between the rendition of the judgment and
the awarding of the writ of inquiry.
Is this delay so culpable as to charge the executors with the
loss resulting from the insolvency of Latimerl In pursuing
this inquiry, the situation of the parties and of the cause must
be taken into view
When this attachment was sued out, no property on which
it could be served was in the hands of the garnishee. The ginseng had been all shipped by Latimer, and the money in his
hands had been attached by himself and by the assignees ol
West, both of which had a right to prior satisfaction. Had
they proceeded with as much expedition as the course of the
court would admit, to ascertain the amount of their damages,
and to sue out upon the judgment for those damages, a scire
facias against the garnishee, there must have been some complexity and delay in ascertaining the amount of the prior claims
of the attachments of Latimer and of West's assignees, both of
which had priotity to theirs. It is not shown that a judgment
against the garnishee could have been obtained before he
became insolvent. At any rate, there was much reason to

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Brashear v. West and others.]

believe that the affair would be more expeditiously as well as
more satisfactorily arranged by the parties themselves.
In. November 1809, Nixon's executors addressed a letter to
Walter Brashear, informing him of their attachment, as well
as of that issued by West's assignees, and urging him to make
provision.for the sum which would remain due after exhausting the fund in the hands of Latimer. The letter concludes
with saying, "we think a direction from you to Mr Latimer
to pay over the balance due oii your ginseng on the attachments would save you int ch interest, as many months must
elapse before the law will possess either the assignees or us of
our legal claims."
The record shows that the proceedings of the executors were
embarrassed by the claims of West's assignees, on account of
the surplus due on the notes assigned to John Nixon after payment of his debts. In a letter of the 7th of March -1810, to the
assrgnees, they say, "enclosed is'our reply of the 28th ultimo
to Mr West's oblections to the account of the late Mr Nixon,
as rendered on his assignment. You will oblige us by considering our remarks, and withdrawing all -opposition to our
attachment on Dr Brashear's property in the hands of Latimer.
You certainly can demand of us a settlement, and we must
pay over to you any thing recovered beyond what will satisfy
the just demand of Mr Nixon's estate." The letter referred to
is also in the record. It shows that Mr West made snecific
objections to their claims.
After judgnent against Latimer, the executors consulted
counsel, whose opinion was that the garnishee might safely
pay the money in his hands into court. The letter communicating this opinion is in the record. Mr Latimer states the
fact in his deposition, but says that his counsel thought differently.
Late in 1810, or early in 181-1, Dr Brashear was in Philadelphia. The executors addressed a letter to hun of the 2d of
February, in which they say, "we beg leave to call your
attention to the following letter, and to state, your funds in
Mr Latimer's hands must lie.without interest under tile attachment. until they are divided, unless you order him to pay over
the same in the proportions that are due, first to Mr We.qt's
assignees for the balance of your account as settled with
Mr West when in Kentucky; and what remains on the two

SUPREME COURT
[Brashear v. West and others.]

notes in our possession, as stated in our letter of the 4th of
November last, together seven thousand and fifty-five-dollars
sixty-three cents."
In a letter to Dr Brashear, after the failure of Latimer, they
say, "it was our hope that before your departure for Kentucky
an arrangement would have been made by you with Mr Latimer, which would have enabled us to have received from your
effects in his hands the amount of your notes in our possession.
In this expectation we were disappointed. Being left to legal
remedy under the attachment, judgment has been had, &c."
It appears that Dr Brashear had full knowledge of the
attachments, and might have directed Mr Latimer to bring the
money into court.
ie was himself in Philadelphia, and might
then have arranged the business according to his own judgment. He does not appear to have taken any step to facilitate
its termination. He might have given special bail, and have
released the attached effects. He has not done so.
We think the delay of Nixon's executors to proceed with the
execution of tife writ of inquily to assess damages, is accounted
for; and that it is by no means certain that had they proceeded
with'the utmost despatch, they could have forced the money
out of the hands of the garnishee before his failure. We think
that more blame attaches to Doctor Brashear than to the executors, and that the loss is to be ascribed to himself in a greater
degree than to them.
The attachment sued out by the assignees of Mr West, in
his name, is attended by different circumstances, and presents
a question of more difficulty The interval between their
.judgment and the failure of Latimer, was nineteen months.
Their claim on the fund due from Latimer to Brashear, had
priority to that of any other creditor. Mr Brashear states in
his deposition, that a part of the ginseng, more than one third,
was in his possession when the attachment for the use of the
assignees was served. This ginseng was soon afterwards shipped by himself and another on their own account, and thc sale
was made with the consent of the assignees.
The act "about attachments" directs that the manner of
executing the writ "shall be by the officer's going to the house,
or to the person in whose hands or possession the defendant's
goods or effects are supposed to be, and then and there declaring in tle presence of one or more credible persons in the

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(Brashear v. West and others.]

neighbourhood, that he attacheth the same goods or effects.
From and after which declaration, the goods, money or effects,
so attached, shall remain in the officer's power, and be by him
secured, in order to answer and abide the judgment of the
court in that case, unless the garnishee will give security therefor."
The language of the act seems to require that the specific
property attached should be taken into possession by the officer,
unless the garnishee will give security therefor. At all events
the law provides positively -that they shall remain in his power. The reasonable construction of the act would seem to be,
that if the officer leaves them in possession of the garnishee
without security, he is himself surety for their forthcoming,
and in the mean time he retains the power to remove them.
The possession of the garnishee must be virtually his possession.
and thus that power of the officer over the attached effects
which the law requires would be preserved.
Mr Sergeant, in his Treatise on Attachment, p. 14, 15, says,
"there can be no difficulty in the service of-the writ in this case
where the property is shown to the officer, and is admitted by the
person in possession to be the property of the defendant in the
attachment as alleged or supposed by the plaintiff. But the
garnishee may conceal the alleged property, or contest the
ownership, liability, &c. And of these and other circumstances, the officer cannot judge, but they are subsequently to be
examined into and decided upon by interrogatories or by evidence on trial." In these cases the officer would not be bound
to take possession or security from the garnishee, unless indemnified by the plaintiff.
In consequence of these and other difficulties, Mr Sergeant
continues, "'the usual practice is, where there is a garnishee,
merely to serve a copy of the writ of attachment on the person named as garnishee with notice annexed :by the officer,
that by virtue of the writ of which that is a copy, he attaches
all and singular the goods and chattels of the defendant in his
hands or possession, and summons him as garnishee in' which
case the return of the officer is in the same general terms;
leaving the existence, nature, extent, and liability of the pronerty to be developed in the subsequent proceedings by interrogatory or by evidence on the trial.
-In the case at bar the officer proceeded in what Mr. Ser-

SUPREME COURT.
[Brashear v. West and others.]

geant says, is the usual manner. The service and the return
were general, and the property remained in the possession of
the garmishee. Yet there was. no concealment of the property,
nor contest about the ownership. The difficulties which
caused the practice stated by Mr Sergeant did not arise. We
are not informed whether this practice is understood in Pennsylvania to have so far changed the law, that no responsibility
is in any case incurred by the officer who leaves the attached
effects in the hands of the garnishee without security nor
are we informed whether these effects are supposed to remain
in the power of the officer.
They must undoubtedly be to a certain extent in the custody of the law. If, under this modem practice, they are u4derstood to be confided by the law to the garnishee, still he
must keep them safely; and he is not at liberty to change them,
to convert them into money, or to exercise any act of ownership over them.
The attachment for the use of the assignees was served in
April 1809, and before the attached effects were shipped to China by the garnishee on account of himself and William Redwood. The assignees, as is stated by tfle garnishee, consented
to the sale. They have then, by their own acts, aided the
garnishee in violating the confidencu reposed in him by the law,
and the duty growing out of that confidence. If the goods
were, in legal contemplation, still in the power of the officer,
they have combined with the garnishee to take them out of
his power. By this act a total loss has been produced. By
converting this ginseng into a debt due from the garnishee
they have made it his interest, if in declining circumstances, to
interpose obstacles to the regular course of the law, and to delay the proceedings as far as might be in his power. He refused to bring the money into court when urged to do so by
Nixon's executors. It is not probable that he would have refused to produce the ginseng. The plaintiff, on the most reasonable presumption, has lost the value of the ginseng which
was attached in the name of West for his assignees, by this
unjustifiable interference. We think them legally responsible
for this loss.
The counsel for West's assignees contend that-the testimony
of Latimer ought not to be regarded, because, supposing the
fact to be as charged in the bill, it is not proved as charged. The

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Brashear v. West and others.]

allegation of the bill is that the attaching creditors "permitted
the whole fund to remain subject to the managemerit of Latimer, even assenting and encouraging its export." Latimer
says, "there was not any collusion, agreement or consent
between the executors of Mr Nixon, or the assignees of Mr
West and myself, that the property or money attached should
remain in my hands, should be shipped abroad or should be
used or disposed of in any way, other than the consent of the
assignees of.Mr West that the ginseng might be sold, which
consent was after their attachment and before that by Mr Nixon's executors.
At a time then when the ginseng was placed in the custody
of the law, and withheld from the control of Brashear by thd
attachment of West's assignees, they consented to its being
taken out of the custody of the law and sold. The loss of
the article, so far as we can judge, is the consequence of this
consent. That they did not mention its exportation, in terms,
is we think unimportant. The place of sale was not prescribed.
The foreign was the ultimate and the best market for the article. An unlimited power to sell, given to a person in the
habit of exporting it to China, without mentioning the place
of sale, iieluded, and must -have been understood to include. a
power to dispose of it in the usual manner.
The assignees also insist that the accounts furnish cause for
believing that the witness is mistaken, in supposing that part
of the ginseng was shipped after their attachment was levied.
If any obscurity exists in the testimony, the diwculty may
be removed by leaving the fact to be investigated in the circuit
court.
The assignees also insist on the fact that Latmer was the
agent of Brashear for the purpose of selling his ginseng; and
must still be considered as his agent in the. sale itself. He
must therefore be understood as selling with the consent of
Brashear, as well as with that of the assignees.
But the attachment suspended all power of selling under the
authority given by Brashear. To implicate him in this transaction, some actual'interference on his part must be shown.
None is even alleged. It is not to be presumed; for Latimer
could not have paid the proceeds of the ginseng to Brashear
while the attachment. remained.
The counsel have. insisted that the attaching creditors couLd

SUPREME COURT.
[Brashear v. West and others.]

not have taken the property out of the hands of the garnishee.
Admitting them to state the law of Pennsylvania correctly, and
we cannot doubt it, still the property was in the custody of the
law, and would have remained safely m its custody, so far as
we are informed by the testimony, had not the assignees consented to the removal of that protection.
We are of opinion that the plaintiff ought to have been
allowed.a credit for the amount of the ginseng sold by the
garnishee with the consent of the assignees of West, and shipped by Latimer, for himself and Redwood. But that he ought
not to have been allowed a credit for the money paid by him
as special bail for George Anderson. The decree is to be reversed and the cause remanded to the circuit court with directions to reform the said decree according to this opimon. The
parties to bear their own costs in this court.

On consideration of this cause, this court is of opinion that
there is error in the decree of the said circuit court, in allowing to the said Walter Brashear, credit for the money paid by
him a§ special bail for Francis West, at the suit of George
Anderson, and also in refusing to allow the said Walter l1rashear credit for the value of the ginseng, shipped and sold by
the said James Latimer, with the assent of the assignees of
Francis West, after the same had been attached in his hands,
by the said assignees. It is therefore decreed, and ordered,
that the decree pronounced in this cause by the court of the
United States, for the seventh circuit%in the district of Kentucky, be reversed and annulled, and that the cause be remanded to that court, with instructions to perpetuate the
ijunction as to the sum which shall be equal to the amount
of the ginseng shipped and sold by the said James Latimer,
after the attachment sued out by Francis West for the use of
Samuel Mifflin, James Lapseley, and Henry Nixon, assignees
for the benefit of his creditors, was levied, and to dismiss the
bill as to the residuc.
And it is further ordered, that the parties pay their own costs
in this court.
The same decree was entered in the case of West and others
v. Brashear.

