SUPREME COURT.

HOLLINGSWORTH MAGNIAC AND OTHERS, PLAIN'TIFFS IN ERROR

v. JOHN R. THOMPSON.
The whole charge of the circuit court was brought up with the record.
By the court. This is a practice which this court have uniformly discountenanced, and which the court trusts a rule made at last term will
effectually suppress.
This court have nothing to do with comments of the judge of the circuit
court upon the evidenpe. The case of Carver v. Jackson, 4 Peters, 80,
81, cited upon this point
The question now before the court is, whether the charge to the jury in the
circuit court contains any erroneous statement of the law. In examimng
it for the purpose of ascertaining its correctness, the whole scope and
bearing of it must be taken together. It is wholly inadmissible to take
up-single and detached passages, and to decide upon them without attending to the context, or without incorporating such qualifications and
explanations as naturally flow from the language of other parts of the
charge. The whole is to be construed as it must have been understood,
both by the court and the jury, -atthe tite it was delivered.
Upon principle and authority, to make an antenuptial settlement void as a
fraud upon creditors, it is necessary that both parties should concur in,
or have cognizance of the intended fraud. If the settler alone intend a
fraud, and the other party have no notice of it, but is innocent of it, she
'is not, and cannot be affected by it. Marriage, in contemplation of the
law, is not only a valuable consideration to support such a settlement, but
is a consideration of the highest value, and from motives of the soundest
policy, is upheld with a strong resolution. The husband and wife, parties to such a contract, are therefore deemed, in the highest sense,
purchasers for a valuable consideration, and so that it is bona fide, and
without notice of fraud, brought home to both sides, it becomes unimpeachable by creditors.
Fraud- may be imputed to the parties, either by direct co-operation in the
original design, at tfietirne of its concoction, or by constructive co-operation from. notice of it, and carrying the design upon such notice into
operation.
Among creditors equally meritorious, a debtor may conscientiously prefer
one to another; and it can make no difference that the preferred creditor
is his own wife.
Marriage articles or settlements are not required by the laws of New Jersey
to be recorded, but only conveyances of real estate: and as to conveyances of real estate, the omission to record them avoids them only as to
purchasers and creditors, leaving them in full force between the parties.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magniac arid others v. Thompso':.]

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the eastern
district of Pennsylvania.
In the circuit court of Pennsylvania, at October sessions
1826, a feigned issue was made up between the plaintiffs and
the defendant, to try the question of the ability of the defendant to pay a debt acknowledged to be due to the plaintiffs, and
for which judgments had been obtained in then" favour. The
competency of the defendant to satisfy the debt, depended on
the validity of a certain marriage settlement, made m contemplation of marriage between the defendant and Miss Anms
Stockton, daughter of Richard Stockton, Esq., late of New
Jersey, to which instrument Mr Stockton was a party, he being,
by its provisions, the trustee of his daughter. The marriage
settlement was as follows:
"Articles of agreement and covenant made and executed this
nineteenth day of December, in the year of our'Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, by and between John R.
Thompson, Esq., late of the city of Philadelphia, of the first.
part, Annis Stockton, daughter of Richard Stockton; Esq., of
the second part, and Richard Stockton, of the county of Somerset and state of New Jersey, father and trustee of the said
Annis Stockton, of the third-part.
"Whereas a marriage is intended to be shortly had and
solemnized between the said John . Thompson and the said
Annis Stockton; and whereas the said Richard Stockton has
promised to give unto his said daughter a certain lot or tract
of land, belonging to hun, situate in the county of Middlesex
and state of New Jersey, directly opposite the mansion house
of the said Richard Stockton, between the old road to Trenton
and the turnpike road, which consists of between four and five
acres of land, be the same more or. less, and is bounded on the
north and south by the said roads, on the west by lands of Dr
John Vanclave, and the east by a line to be run from the
north east comer of the garden now in the possession of Mrs
Abigail Field, to the said turnpike road, upon which said lot
the said John R. Thompson has begun to build a house. Now,
it is hereby agreed between the parties aforesaid,- and the said
Richard Stockton, for himself and hs heirs, doth hereby covenant and agree to and with the parties of the first and second

SUPREME COURT.
[Aagniac and others v. Thompson.]

parts, their heirs,. executors,, and admmistrators,in consideration of the said marriage, and of the love and natural affection
he hath for his said daughter, that from the time of, and immediately after,,the,said marriage shall be solemnized, he, the
said Richard Stockton, shall and will stand seised of the said
lot and ?premises, and of all and singular the buildings and
improvements which shall be erected and made thereon by the
said.party of the first part, to uses, trusts, and purposes hereinafter mentioned, and to none other, that is to say* m trust to
permit the said John R. Thompson, and Anms his Wife, dung
the time of their joint lives, to possess, live in, and occupy the
,said lot, house, and premises, with the appurtenances, free and
clear of all demands; and in case the said parties of the first
and gecond parts do not think proper to inhabit and reside m
the said premises, that he, the said RichaTd Stockton, will let
out upon lease the said premises, and receive the rents, issues
and profits thereof, and pay over the same to the said Annis,
party of the second, during the joint lives of the parties of the
first and second parts. And if the said John R. Thompson
shouldcsurvive the-said Annis Stockton and have issue by her,
then in trust to permit the said John R. Thompson, dunng Ins
life, to inhabit and occupy the said premises, if he elect so to
do, free and clear as aforesaid, and pay over the said rents and
profits, as he shall receive the same, to the said John R.
Thompson, for the maintenance and support of him and Is
family, without he, the said John R. Thompson, being at any
time thereafter accountable to any person or persons for the
said rents and profits. And after the death of the said John
R. Thompson, in trust for the child or children of the said
marriage, in equal shares as tenants in common, in fee simple;
and if there shall be.no child or children of the said marriage,.
then, upon the death of either of the said parties of the first
and second parts, in trust to convey the said premises to the
survivor m fee simple. And the said John R. Thompson, for
himself, his heirs, executors and-admimstrators, doth covenant
and agree to and with the parties of the second and third parts,
that if the sad marriage shall take effec , and in consideration
thereof, he will, with all convement speed,'build and furinsh
the said house in a suitable manner, as he shall judge fit and

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magnam and others v. Thompson.]

proper; and that the said erections, improvements and furmture, together with the changes and additions which -shall be
from time to time made, shall be subject to and included in
the said trusts, as far as the same are applicable to each-species of property. And further, that he will, in the space of.
one year from the time the said marriage shall take effect,
place out on good security, in stock, or otherwise, the sum of
forty thousand dollars, and hand over and assign the evidences
thereof to the said party of the third part, who shall hold the
same in trust to receive the interest, profits, or dividends thereon, as they shall from time to time arise, to the said party of
the second part during the joint lives of -he parties of the first
and second parts, and that her receipts for the same, and also
for what may be produced under the before mentioned trusts,
shall be good and valid, notwithstanding her coverture. If
the said party of the second part should die before the said
party of the first part, and there should be issue of the said
marriage, then in trust to receive the said interest, profits and
dividends, and pay the same over from tune to time to the said
party of the first part, during his life, for the support of himself,
and the maintenance and education of his children, without
his being subject to any accoufit as aforesaid, and after his
death, m trust for any child or children of the said mamage in
equal shares; and if the said Annis should survive the said
John, and there be issue of the said marriage, then to pay over
the same to the said Annis, dunng ber life, for her maintenance, and the support and"education.of the said children, and
without her being liable to any account for the same; and after
her death, in trust for the child or children of the said marnage
in equal shares; and if there shall be no child or children of
the said marriage, then upon the death of the -said John R.
Thompson, -or Annis -his wife, in trust, to assign and deliver
the said securities, and all moneys remaining due, to the one
who shall survive, to his or her own uses. And it is further
agreed and covenanted by and between the parties aforesaid,
that it maybe lawful for the said John R. Thqripson-to act as
the agent of the parties aforesaid, in all the m&tters aforesaid,
by the permission and under the control, if need be. of the caid
trustee. and to change, and from time to time altet the sad

SUPREME COURT.
[Magmad and others v. Thompson.]'

securjtits, as occasion may require, and take new securities in

their stead, so as that the fund as aforesaid settled shall always
be kept good. And itis-'also hereby further agreed and covenanted by and between all the said parties, that the said trustee shall not be held gulity of breach of trust, although he does
not act personallyin the premises, unless he be expressly desired and requested so to do by one of the other parties hereto,
or those claiming under them;. and that he shall not in any
manner be held liable as trustee, unless for acts of wilful neglect or misconduct,"
The plaintiffs and the defendant were merchants residing
in Canton, m China, previousi to the 25th of March 185, when
the defendant returned to the United States, leaving an agent,
Rodney Fisher, in Canton, with full powers to transact his
business, and to bind hun by commercial contracts, and who
was introduced to the plaintiffs as his agent by the defendant.
Very large loans were made to the agent of the defendant by
the plaintiffs, which were.employed 'in loading the -vessels of
"Edward Thompson, the goods being pledged to pay.the loans
*at Philadelphia, and the shipmentsso made being for the use of
Edward Thompson. Edward Thompson was without credit
or friends in Canton, and the credit of his son'John R. Thompson was thus employed by his. agent to lead the ships, the
defendant's compensation consisting of the commissions on the
transactions.
On the 22d of November 1825, Mr Fisher, as the agent of
the defendant, borrowed of the plaintiffs thirty thousand dollars on the pledge of an invoice of goods valued at about fortytwo thousand dollars, and on the 2d of December 1825, thirtythree thousand dollars more were borrowed on the pledge of
another invoice vblued at upwards of forty-four thousand
dollars, together exceeding more -than sixty-three thousand
dollars on pledges. of goods exceeding, in invoice =mnount,
eighty-six thousand dollars.
Besides.these loans, the ddi'endant obtained others in China,
where he also owed some other debts, mconsiderable m amount,
and after Ins return home, he signed his father's respondentia
bonds for two hundred thousand dollars. OA all these loans
and respondentia, there were large sums lost: the goods pledged

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magma and others v. Thompson.]

to the plaintiffs did not sell for half the invoice prices; and the
defendant lost moreover upwards of twenty thousand dollars by
his father's failure. He was not possessed of any real-estate,
mortgages, public stock or other productive property, and
whatever he was worth, if any thing, was involved re-his father's affairs.
On the 19th of November 1825, Edward Thompson's msolvency was made public. On the 19th of December 1825, the
defendant, having arrived from Canton in this country on the
I t of June of that year, and soon after made an engagement
to be marred with Annis, the daughter of Richard Stockton,
Esq., submitted a statement of his affairs to Mr Stockton, with
a view to the marriage settlement before stated,. which was
executed the same day.
Statement by John R. Thompson, made previous to settlement
"I have no personal debts except to a smill amount, in common course of business and living. I am surety for my father
in a respondentia bond to Messrs Schott and Lippincott, ii-a
penal sum of two hundred thousand dollars. If the goods
which are pledged sell reasonably well, there can be no loss,
for the freight on these goods, the commissions in China, and
thepremium on dollars on the outward investment, all tend to
enhance the security, and such is the opinion of Mr Schott
expressed to me in a conversation on thig subject, -there can,
therefore, be no demand on-me.
"Upon no fair principle of calculation could the loss, if it
should happen, be more than tweity thousand dollars, and I
consider myself worth that amount, if not more, m addition to
the sum proposed to be settled.
"JoiN R. THoMPsoN.
"December 19, 1825."
Indorsed by Richard Stockton, "Statement made to the
trustee by J. R. Thompson as the bais of the settlement, and
upon which it was made.
"R. S."

The marriage took place the 28th December 1825. But
during the life of Richard Stockton, the settlement was never
acknowledged or registermd, nor has the forty thousand dollars
VOL. VII.-2 U

SUPREME COURT
[Magniac and others v. Thompson.]

in productive stock, ever been provided, as the settlement stipulated, by the defendant, who pleads inability to do so, from
insolvency. After Mr Stockton's death, and shortly before
judgment confessed by the defendant, for the balance remaining
due to the plaintiffi, the defendant delivered to Robert Stockton, the eldest son of Richard Stockton, deceased, two proinissory notes, together, for nine thousand five hundred dollars,
one of which, for four thousand five hundred dollars, is of
doubtful worth.
Of the sixty thousand dollars and upwards, due by the defendant to the plaintiffs, a principal sum of about twelve thousand dollars remaining due. Suits were brought for the same
against him in Pennsylvania, where he resided, and in New
Jersey, where he settled at the time of hIs marriage, in both of
which suits judgments were confessed for the sum claimed.
On the 3d of June 1830, the following agreements reiative
to the case were entered into by the counsel for the plaintiffs
and for the defendant.
Whereas the above named plaintiffs did recover, on the 26th
day of November 1827, against the said John R. Thompson,
the sum of twenty thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine
dollars and seven cents damages, besides costs of suit, and
whereas the said plaintiffs allege that the said John R. Thompson has the means of satisfying said judgment and costs, and
the said John R. Thompson denies his ability to pay the same,
and requires that the proof thereof may be tried by a jury, and
an issue for the trial thereof has been agreed upon between the
parties, in the circuit court of the United States for the eastern
district of Pennsylvania, to April sessions 1830; it is hereby
ordered and agreed, that the action as above statea be entered,
and- that the said John R. Thompson cause an appearance to
be entered for him to the same, and that said plaintiffs declare
of the said term of a discourse had and inoved between the
said plaintiffs and the sdid defendant, of and concerning whether the said defendant has the means, by the property in his
marriage settlement or otherwise, of satisfying the-judgment
aforesaid; and that the said defendant, in consideration of a
mutual promise on the part of the said plaintiffi to hun made,
did promise to pay Eo the said plaintiffs the sum of twenty-five

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magniac and others v. Thompson.]

thousand dollars, in case he, the said defendant, has the means
or ability of satisfying the judgment aforesaid, so that this said
issue may be tried by the country. And it is further ordered
and agreed, that the circumstances of the said mutual promises, and of the affirmations and assertions laid in the declaration shall be confessed, so that the said issue may be tried on
the merits, and that the costs of the suit shall follow the verdict, but that the said verdict shall give no title to either party
to recover from the other the sum laid m the declaration. The
merits to be tred'without regard to form, and either party to
be at liberty, under the direction of the court, to modify or
change the pleadings,so as to facilitate such trial on the

merits."
"Whereas a feigned issue has been agreed upon between
the parties in this case, for the purpose of ascertaining by law
whether the defendant, John R. Thompson, has the means, by
the property in his marriage settlement, or otherwise, .of satisfying the judgment -recovered against, him in this court to
October sessions 1826, No. 18, now, it is hereby agreed to'be
the unaderstanding of the parties to this suit, that if' the plaintiffs
recover, that the liability of the secuity from said defenoant shall. be to the extent of the property actually settled by
,said defendant on Ins then intended wife, by virtue of a marnage settlement, dated the day of December 1825.
-And if judgment shall be for the defendant, that the said.
property contained in said settlement shall be entirely discharged, and the security entered as above stated entirely'at
an end, either party to be at liberty to carry the case, according to established regulations, to the supreme court of the
United States for determination."
The case was tried at the April term of the.circuit' court in
1831, under these agreements, and a verdict under the charge
of the court, wa$ rendered for the defendant. ,The plaintiffs
excepted to this charge and prosecuted this writ of error. The
whole of the charge of the.court was inserted in the bill of exceptions, and brought up wilh the record.
The facts -ofthe case as made out in evidence, according to
the views of the court, are stated particularly in the charge to
the jur.

SUPREME COURT.
[Magniac and others v. Thompson.]

The charge was as follows
"The nomnal parties are the plaintiffs and the defendant.
The real parties are the plaintififs and the defendant's wife.
"The nominal question is whether the defendant has any
property. The real question is whether the property he owned
in December 1825, passed to Richard Stockton, father and
trustee of Mrs Thompson, for her use, or whether it remdined
in the defendant on account of the legal inefficacy of the marriage agreement to divest him of it, and vest it according to
that agreement. If it was operative in law, the house furmture and fund in hands of Robert Stockton belong to him in
trust for the uses ok the agreement.
"If not, then the law deems J. R. Thompson to be the legal
owner in trust for his creditors, of whom the plaintiffs seem to
be the only ones.
"He remains the owner, not because the agreement is not
binding on him, but because, under the circumstances of the
case, his indebtedness to the plaintiffs put it out of his power
to so divest himse f of it as to prevent his creditors from considermg it his so far as to be a fund for the payment of their
debt, and this is the only question we have to settle. From
the evidence, the plaintiffs' debt is a fair and valid one, as between them and defendant, between him and Mr Fisher it is
not our province to inquire ,. that depends, perhaps, on the evidence of authority which the latter can produce, but his
evidence 18 sufficient for the plaintiffs to show a debt existing
at the time of the marriage agreement. The judgments confessed by Thompson are evidence not only against him, but as
they may affect the interest of his wife in the property in question. to show the indebtedness of Thompson at the time of the
agreement. (Hinde v. Longworth, 11 Wheat. 210.) Taking
the judgment in connexion with the testimony of Mr Fisher,
you will probably think the plaintiffs' case so far made out as
to estab ish the existence of a valid legal debt due plaintiffs by
defendant at the time of the marriage settlement, and no evidence being given to impeach the claim, we think, in point of
law, it is so, unless you feel at liberty to discredit Mr Fisher,
though Mrs Thompson is no party to the judgment, it is evidence to affect her claun.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magmac and others v. Thompson.]

"This brings us to the main question of the validity of the
marriage settlement, on winch the cause must turn.
"It isgood between the parties, and good as to all the world,
unless ir is liable to impeachment for fraud, which is of two
kinds, fraud in fact, and fraud in law.
"The'first is an intention or design to defraud, delay, injure
or prevent creditors-from receiving their just debts, by a sale,
deed, settlement or agreement, by which the property of a
debtor is withdrawn, or attempted to be withdrawn, from their
reach. The English statute of 13 Eliz. declares all such acts
null and void as to creditors; this statute is in force here, and
you will consider it as having the same effect in this cause as
a law of New Jersey, the common law makes the- aame declaration, and, if the evidence brings this case within it, your
verdict must be for the plaintiff. Proof of fraud may be made
out ny direct evidence, or may be inferred from such circumstances as will justify that inference, but a jury ought never
to presume it without either, you ought to be satisfied that
the facts before you indicate and.reasonably prove ihe'existence
of that dishonest fraudulent intention, which brings the case
within the true spirit and meaning of the law. A mere doubt
or suspicion of the fairness of the transaction -ought not to.be
sufficient to lead to the finding of any act to be fraudulent,
unless the conduct and situation- of the parties, and the effects
intended tp be produced by the act, appear inconsistent with
their integrity, and admit of no reasonable interpretation but
meditated fraud, to be effected by the agreement, sale or deed,
on this subject the law does not -remain to be settled lby-this
court, it is laid down by Judge WasHington, and adopted by
the supreme court in the case of -Conard v. Nicholls, 4 Peters,.
295, 296, 297, and must be considered as binding on court and
jury in deciding on this part of the case.
"To taint a transaction with fraud, both parties must concur
in the illegal design, it is not enough to prove fraud in the
debtor, he may lawfully sell his property with the direct intention of defrauding his creditors, or prefer one creditor to
another, but unless the,purchaser or preferred creditor receives
the property with the same fraudulent design, the contract-is

SUPREME COURT.
[Magniac and others v. Thompson.]

valid against other-creditors or purchasers who may be mjured
by the transaction. The declarations or admissions of the
debtor, as to the object intended-to be effected, are evidence to
contradict his answer to a bill in chancery, b'ought to annul
the act alleged to be fraudulent, but not to defeat the title of
the grantee or person claiming under it, or to have a bearing
on the whole case. 2 Peters, 119, 120, Venable et al. v.
Bank of the United States, 2 Halst. 173, 174, S.P Before
you can pronounce this marriage agreement void and inoperative, on the ground of' actual fraud, you must be satisfied not
only that the defendant made it with design-to defraud his
creditors, but also that Mrs Thompson, and her father and
trustee, Mr Richard Stockton, participated and concurred in
the fraud intended, if they were innocent of the combination,
it would be harsh and cruel in the extreme to visit on her the
serious consequences of her intended husband's acts, and as
inconsistent with law as justice.
"The facts of the case are neither complicated or contradictory, affording evidence much more clear and satisfactory than
usually appears in such cases, it appears that John R. Thompson, after residing some time in Canton, l6ft it in March 1825,
and returned .to this plecp in June following, that he paid his
-addresses to Miss Stockton during the summer, contracted an
engagement of marriage with her, and contemplated making
a settlement upon her as early as September. That the marriage articles were executed on the 19th December, and the
marriage solemnized a few days afterwards, or perhaps sooner;
he built a house on the lot mentioned m the agreement at an
expense of thirteen. thousand dollars, furmshed it at the expense of-five thousand dollars, but, invested no part of the forty
thousand dollars during the lifetime of Mr Stockton. In September 1829, he put into the hands of. Captain Robert Stockton, who succeeded his father.in the trust, securities to the
amount of nine thousand five hundred dollars, on account of
the sum to be invested pursuant to the settlement. From the
evidence of Mr Fisher and Mr Maclhe, it appears that Mr
Thompson was worth, say in December 1825, about eighty or
ninety thousand dollars in money and personal property, and

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magnmac and others v. Thompson.)

owed seventy thousand five hundred dollars, of which seven
thousand five hundred dollars were on his ownaccount due in
Canton, and paid b:y Mr Fisher. The residue was the sixtythree thousand dollars borrowed by Mr Fisher on the 22d November and the-2d December 1825, from the plaintiffs on the
credit and on the alleged authority of Mr .Thompson, but entirely for the use of his father, Edward Thompson,-m order to
complete the cargoes of his ships then at Canton short of funds.
We have no evidence of any other debts.which would matenally diminish the sum which he was estimated to be worth.
This large debt was contracted; ndt by any specific, but general
directions or orders., it was unknown to him till the spring of
1826 that such a debt existed, and therefore could not have
been-m his contemplation when the marriage articles were
executed, they could not have been entered into for the purpose of defrauding the plaintiffs, and he appears to have had no
other creditors unless those who were paid by Mr Fisher, in
Canton, out of Thompson's funds in his hands. The security
given to the plaintiffs exceeded the amount of the respondentia
bond twenty-three thousand three hundred dollars, which may
fairly ba.presumed to have -been invested in the invoices
pledged to the plaintiffs out of his own funds, as there is no
evidence that this suii was raised by loan on. the goods purchased dh credit. This-added to 'the other debts, amounting
to seven thousand five hundred and forty-eight dollars, makes
thirty thousand'seven hundred and( forty-eight dollars, wnch
would seem to have been raised without -contracting a dett.
Defendant pledged twenty-three thousand three hundred dol"lars of thlsto secure-,he pluntiffs for a loan made for the use
of Edward Thompson;. and made, Thompson personally liable
in the bond.. If the contractfig a"debt in this manner, by
which there could be no profit but commission, and might be
attended -with'heavy loss, was intentional fraud, then you will
judge whom it could have been intended to defraud, Magniac
or Thompson, if there was any part of the debt lost, it must
fall on the latter; the former could not suffer unless the proceeds of the two invoices produced less than sixty-Three thousand dollars, and Thompson became -isolvent, if, under such
circumstances, you-fiO that there was meditated fraud, it-will

SUPREME COURT.
[Magniac and others v. Thompson.]

be hatd to discover a motive wich could operate on the mind
of the defendant to his own benefit, or injury of the plaintiffs.
"Tins debt not being contracted personally by Mr Thompson
or his special directions, it would be difficult to infer any fraud
in him in borrowing the money, and still more so in hi§ agent,
Mr Fisher; it cannot well be doubted that it was the intention
of the one, in confernng the authority, and of the other, in.
executing it, to comply with every stipulation for repayment,
or that in entering into this agreement of marriage, all parties
were ignorant,of the existence of the debt. The mortgages of
the invoices of eighty-six thousand dollars for security, is most
powerful evidence to negative fraud of any kind, these are the
most matenal, and probibly all the facts of the case, necessary
for your consideration of the question of fraud in fact, you will
apply the law as read and stated to you to the evidence, and
decide according to your convictions of the justice of the case.
As a question of fact, it.is for your exclusive decision, the
court, however, think proper to say, that in their opinion, an
inference of intentional fraud would-be a~very severe comment
on the conduct of the parties.
"If, however, you should be of opinion that there was such
fraud attending this transaction as -brings it within the legal
principles laid down for your guide, you will find accordingly
a verdict for the plaintiffs.
"Anotherpart of the issuewhich you are to decide is, whether
the defendant has concealed, and has in his possession, disposal or command, any part of the property he owned in 1825,
amounting to eighty or. ninety thousand dollars, winch has
been accounted f6r as by statement-of Mr Fisher and Mackie,
leaving the sum of twenty-five or twenty-six thousand dollars,
which has been shown to be invested in the house furniture
and securities inthe :hands of captain Stockton,. connecting
this with the evidence of Mr Norrs, you will be able to decide
whether, defendant has any means of paying the plaintiffs'
debt, of which he has not given an account, or whlch remain
in his hands.
"Ih tracing through the evidence the conduct of the defendant
towards the plaintiffs in relation to tins debt, you will discriminate between the deliberate design to defraud by secreting pro-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[B.bgn

and others v. ThQmpson.]

perty for his own use, and losses mcIWre

by casualties and
want of prudence or discretion, on tJis part of the'issue you
are to inquire only as to the property which he actually has in
his possession or control, not into what be paight to have had,
or what he has disposed of for any other use than -his own,
and will not take into consideration what has been expended
or applied towards the marriage contract, that being the subject of the first inquiry, which is altogether distinct from this.
"The next and most important question is, whether the marnage contract is fraudule.t in law, and for that reason void as
against the plaintiffi; that is, although the intention of the
parties was fair and honest, and the act done without any deagn to defraud, the policy of the law forbids its execution, and
takes from it -all legal efficacy as to the creditors of John R.
T'hompson. The deeds, gifts, grants or other contracts, which
the law avoids, are those made with intent to defraud, binder,
delay or injure creditors; and in order to avoid them, both the
party giving, and the party receiving, must be participating in
the fraud. On this subject, the law is written and cannot be
misunderstood. The sixth soction of statute Eliz..ch. 13, pro,
vides that the act shall not extend to any interest in lands or
goods and .chattels made on good consideration, bona fide lawfully conveyed or assured to any person not having, at the time
of such conveyance or assurance to them .made, any manner
of notice or knowledge of such fraud, covin or collusion.
"The words of the law require that both parties mulst concu
in the fraud, in order to bring the case within its provisions.
and such has been its settled judicial exposition for two hun.
dred and sixty years.
"There are in law two kinds of considerations; good, which
is natural love and affection, and valuable, whidh is money or
marriage. The word good is used in this law as applied to cases
which it does not mean to embrace; but from the evident
meaning and object of the law, to protect creditors from the
disposition by debtors of their property with intent to defraud
them, and from dispositions which might produce that effect
by conveying it to their wives, children, relations or friends;
all courts, both of law and equity, have considered the word
good as meaning valuable consideration.
VOL. VI1.-2 V

SUPREME COURT.
[Mapgac and others v. Thompson.]

"You will perceive that the law, as thus expounded, embraces three kinds of conveyances:
" 1. Those made with the intention in both parties to defraud
creditors; these are void, whetherz made with or without con.sideration, good or-valuable, not only on account of the covin
or collusion, but as exempted from the saving of the sixth section, not -being bona fide.
11 R. Voluntary, made for good consideration, but tending to

defraud creditors; if they are permitted to have a legal operation to,vest the property conveyed, the policy of -the law makes
them void for legal f'aud-though there is no fraud in fact, the
fraud in law. being deemed equivalent to it.
113. For valuable consideration, in good faith, without notice
by the person receiving the conveyance of any fraud, covin or
collusion by.the grantor to defraud his creditors; these axe
excepted from the operation of the law before referred to; they
are good and valid at common law to pass the property conveyed, and purchasers under such conveyances are entitled to,
and receive the protection of all courts of justice. From what
has already been given you in charge on the subject of actual
fraud you will be enabled to decide whether this 'case comes
within the first class of case of intentional fraud in-both parties to the marriage contracts if you are not satisfied that this
contract is of this character, then it cannot fall within the
second class of voluntary conveyances. If it was made in
conteii~plation of -narnage, i was made on a valuable consideration, and puts the intended wife on the footing of a purchaser for money, and not of a voluntary grantee or donee for
the mere consideration of love and affection. She is not to be
considered in any court as a volunteer, but comes into -court at
least on an equality, both in law and equity, with -any other
partiss whose claims are founded in money. You will not
fo'get the difference between a provision -for a wife and children before and after marriage; when there is no portion or
money paid, it is the difference between a purchaser and a
volunteer, for the former the consideration is as valuable as the
debt due a creditor, or the money received from a purchaser in
the latter; it is, from its nature, merely voluntary; there can
be no -other than ta good considerationt for making it; there

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magnrac and others v. Thompson.]

eists, it is true, a moral obligation to provide for their support
and comfort, but that moral obligation must' yield to the legal
one, which every man must observe towards those who have
just claims on his property. In dispositions of property which
take effect in the disposer's lifetime, as well as after his death,
there is a golden rule which applies to all-a man must be
just before he is generous; this applies to all cases between
volunteers or those claiming merely by a voluntary disposition,
made by deed or will to those who have no legal claims on the
person who makes it on the one hand, and' creditors and purchasers on the other. But where conflicting claims between
creditor and creditor, purchaser and purchaser, or pur ii..,
and creditor, arise in court, they axe settled by other rules.
The first inquiry as to them is, whether one class has a legal
,right to the debt claimed, or the other to the thing claimed to
be purchased, such as is recognized in a court of law; the
second- 'is, whether that right has been so acquired as to be
attended with such circumstances of fraud, accident, mistake,
trust, inadequacy of price, or unfairness, as will annul or modifyit m a court of chancery, accrdihg-to-the established principles
of courts of equity.
"Creditors have, as between them and the debtor, an undoubted right to so much of his estate as will pay their -debts;
but the debtor has a right, equally undoubted, of preferring
one creditor to another, or giving all his property to one; 'this
is neither fraud in law or fact in the absence of covin or collusion. A debtor may sell his whole estate, turn it into money,
and distribute it among his creditors at his pleasure, those only
who have liens on it, can, in either case, have any resort to the
property in the' hands of a bona fide purchaser or creditor, who
has fairly received it, in payment of his debts. These are
known principles of law, long settled and established by umversal consent and, adoption in our system of jurisprudence,
they form rules of property and title on which the peace of
society and security of rights essentially depend, they cannot
be shaken by courts or juries without producing endless confusiun, uncertainty, and want of confidence in the admm istration
of the laws of the land.
"We will then apply them to the case. under our considera-

SUPREME COURT
[Magmac and others v. Thompson.]

tion, in order to ascertain, by their bearing on its merits
whether it comes within the third class of cases, which, we
have seen, are excepted from the provisions of the statute.
".A. contract in consideration of a future marriage, is of that
nature which creates a legal and equitable obligation on the
parties to perform it, in good faith, according to its stipulations;
the consideration is good apd valuable in contemplation of the
law, as if it was made on the loan or payment of money; if the
contract is executed, the parties become purchasers; if it remains executory till after the marrage, they become creditors
on its consummation, or assume pro tanto the character and
acquire the rights of both, if executed only in part. They are
entitled to the protection of all courts in the enjoyment of what
is granted, and to their aid in enforcing the performance of
-what has been stipulated to be done, and where either party
can rightfully call on a court of law or equity to compel the
other to perform an act necessarT to the execution of the contract, and the judgment or decree of the court would be given
in his favour, a voluntary performance of the legal or equitable
obligation would be equally valid. The consideration being
valuable if the contract, whether executed or executory, Is
made in good faith with one having no notice or knowledge of
any fraud, covin, or collusion to defraud creditorsperformance
may be enforced or voluntarily made, and the contract carried
ito execution at any. time, either in the whole or in part, as is
in the power 'of the party; And whatever is so done, will be as
valid and binding between the parties and in relation to third
persons, as if the execution had been completed on its date.
The law is express in referring to the time of the conveyance
and assurance, and embraces not only perfect grants or gifts,
but any estate or Interest in lands, goods and chattels, made,
conveyed or assured. On these principles it is tfe .opinion of
the court, that the evidence in this case brings the marriage
contract within the sixth section of the law, excepting itfrom
the operation of the first section, unless you shall find that it
was made, not bona fide, or with notice or knowledge of a
fraud in John R. Thompson in enteringinto it, brbught home
to his intended wife, and that Thompson actually entered into
it with such fraudulent, covinous or collusive intention,

JANUARY TERM 1833
[HMgnm= and others*'. Thompson.]

"If you do not find such want of good faith or existence of
notice, then Mr Richard Stockton must be considered at law
as a purchaser for valuable consideration, bona fide, and without notice, so far as the contract has at any time been proved
to have been. executed by Thompson. and his creditor, so far
as remains to be executed, and Mrs Thompson as having the
same character m equity, and captain Stockton as invested
with all the rights and standing, m all respects, m the situation
of his father.
"The aspect in which these considerations present the cfse,
is a contest between Mr Stockton and Mrs Thompson, the one
the legal, and the other the equitable purchaser of the house,
curniture and securities from John R. Thompson, by the contract and in consideration of the marriage, and the lot as the
marriage portion, and the plaintiffs. his sole creditor. Thus
they stood at the commencement of this suit, and as creditor
at the time of the contract and consummation of the marriage,
they having performed their stipulation, had a perfect right to
call on Thompson, both at law and equity, to perform his. If
Mrs Stockton is a purchaser, she is one of the most favoured
class; the consideration she has given is as valuable and as
much to be valued as money; it is not necessary to consider it
as more so; if she is invested with, the acknowledged rights of
a money purchaser, a conveyance of real or personal property
made to her before marriage, by her intended husban:i, of real
or personal estate, would be as valid and effectual although he
was in debt as if he was not. If he had the legal title to the
thing conveyed and power to sell, the interest and beneficial
use would vest in her and her trustee, by the deed, as fully
and completely, if the property had been held in trust for
others, as if Thompson htd a right as perfect in equity as at
law, provided she had no notice of the-trust. This is a universal principle never questioned, and protects all bona fide
purchasers for valuable consideration without notice, before the
money paid'or the condition of the grant performed.
"The application of-this well known and acknowledged rule
of law -toMrs Thompson does not make her a prerogative or a
privileged purchaser, it only puts her on the footing of every
other purchaser, from one who has the legal title. subject lo

SUPREME COURT.
[Magnmac and others v. ThompsQn.]
an unknown trust, for the use of a third person.

This case

is of the strongest kind against the cestui que trust, if the

plaintiffs can be so 6onsidered, and they cannot be placed in
any attitude wlch can give them better rights than m that,
for the debt was contracted with them but a few days before
the date of the marriage articles, and in a quarter of.the world
so distant as to preclude the possibility of notice to other parties. In the common case of a trustee, conveying the legal
estate to the injury of cestul que trust, the trust exists at the
time of the conveyance, it is necessarily known to the trustee,
and notice may be brought home to the purchaser by direct or
circumstantial evidence, as in all other cases, but in this it
could be done by no possibility.
"1Whenthe law is so well settled, as in the case of a conveyance by a trustee to one having no.notice of the trust, it can
have no effect to urge any arguments of-hardship on the person injured, we could not change the law on the subject if
we-would, and should violate our duty not to so declare it. It
is a bardship on a widow or an orphan who has been defrauded by-her tustee, in selling what is not his own, but theirs,
but it is great, if not a greater hardship on the widow or orphan to be deprived of property -which they have purchased
and paid for by money earned by their industry, and deprived
of that on the faith of which they have devoted their lives to a
husband, and placed at his disposal their future happiness and
last cent. A loss must fall on one of two innocent sufferers,
whose claims may be supposed equal in justice aid equity; in
such case the law leaves the property with the one who has
acquired the legal title by fair purchase in good faith and wVithout notice, and a creditor of a fraudulent debtor, who sells or
settles on his intended wife property which he is bound both in
law and equity to apply to pay his debts, can on no principle
le more favoured'in any court than the person whose property
is unjustly conveyed by a trustee to pay his own debts, to rob
one-family in order to save another, or secure a provision for an
expected one of his own. A creditor is no where more favoured than the infant, the ward, the widow or orphan, whose
property is in the hands of trustees, without lien or security,
and subject to his disposition by deed or bill of sale.

JANUARY TERM 183S;
[Magmacnd

others -v. Thompsop.]

creditor of-a deceased debtor has the same right to the
payment of his debt out of. his property as - living one ;. yet a
sale of the personal property of a deceased,, by an-executor,
administrator or trustee,. to pay his own debt, is good against
creditors, the widow and next of kin, if made without notice
or collusion, and no court of chancery will annul it,. yet it is
as much a breach of faith, as deep a vlation of moral honesty,
as to-settle the ,same property on an intended wife, to whom
he was under as high and imposing obligations to perform his
contract of marriage, by paying the promised consideration on
which it was solemnized, as to discharge a bond given for
money lent or property purchased.
"These are general principles and rules of law which; we
feel confident,. are the pre-existing law. of this. case, and, as
such, lay them-down to you as-the legal rule -for your verdict;
we should make, instead of expounding the law, act as legislators of new rules,,and not 'as judges, expositors and adinmistrators of old and well established ones, in declaring- that Mrs
Thompson is, in this case, to be, viewed in a less favoured
light than a purchaser iii consideration of money or property.
"The. consideration of the contract on which this cause depends, -isboth marnge and property, the value of the one
-cannot be, and the other ,has not-been ascertained in dollars,
but we think the, justice of this case can be attained without
doing either, considered as- a purchase, niade in good fpith,
and the purchase money paid without notice of any fraud by
the intended husband, we know of no principle by which it
can be declared void in a court of law, we. know of no case
in which a conveyance of real or personal property so made,
has ever been, or, agreeably to legal" principles, could be annulled and set aside on tny reason founded on mere madeqnacy of consideration. All that is required to render-a, conveyance valid at law in that respect is, that there be some
consideration, the.amount is not matenal and cannot be in-quired into either as respects the grantor, his creditors, or subsequent purchasers oL the same -property, in the absence of
actual and legal fraud in the- grantor, ornotice of- it to the
grantee. The only resort of the parties.who complain.of any
equitable fraud,..or other circum tanc which would .mvaliCThe

• UPREME COURT
[(lagtic ana others v. Thompior.]
date it in equity, is to those courts they only ean decide upon
the inadequacy of a pecuniary fund, or the equality of mar.
nage to a.given sum of money, or value in property, under the
circumstances of the case. Cases may exist in which a court
of chancery would compare and estimate them, for the relief
of a creditor, a purchaser,, or perl~aps the party, in a strong and
dlear case of injustice, when such a case occurs it will be
time to give an opinion on it, as yet we J now of no instance
in which a court of chancery have set aside a purchase for a
valuable consideration, or a marriage contract, when made
bona fide, and without notice of fraud or defect of title, those
claiming under them have ever been the peculiar favourites of
such courts, and their rights can never be disturbed, unles in
some extreme case of such a nature as to call for the application of old rules and principles to a new state of facts, which
have never yet been presented to a chancellor. Truth is not
to be elicited by fbrced comparisons and extravagant suppositions, or extracted from extreme cases of rare and barely possible occurrence, the rules of law have been settled to meet
the common and ordinary occurrences of life, which come
withib the cognizance of courts of justice, extreme cases may
arise, and though necessity may have no law, yet there are
rules for all exigences, but they are only to be app ted when
they arise, they differ much from those which regulate and
govern the ordinary common contracts of society. The court
perceives nothing in the one now under our examination,
which gives it any unusual features. At the time-it was entered into, if you view the evidence as we do, Mr Thompson,
so far as he could judge, was aeundantly able to make the
stipulated provisions for his intended Wife, without doing any
mjury to the plaintiffs or any other petson, he has given evidence of losses enough to account for his inability to coinply
either with his cohtract with his w1fe or plaintiffs, but they
were unforeseen at the time, they happened not by his dishonesty or even imprudence. An investment was made by
his agent without,his knowledge, ,the money was borrowed;
the purchase-and shipment made by Mr Fisher, in good faith,
and in the exercise of sound discretion. But what cot eightysix thousand three hundred dollars in Canton) produced less or

JANUARY TERM 1833.
Magi axud others Y.Thompson.)
not more than forty thousand dollars m Philadelphia, it h"n
been a calamity by which the defendant has suffered and must
suffer, is wife must lose thlrty thousand dollars of her settlement, or the. plaitiff lose tWelve thousand dollars of his debt;
even admitting their equities to be equal, she has a legal advantage which no court.can take from her, unless her conduct
can be impeached for actual or legal fraud, it would be as
unjust as illegal and inequitable,to visit alone on her the nsfortunes which attended her husband's affairs. Considering
Mrs Thompson then as a purchaser under the marriage arti.
cle, we are decidedly of opinion, that there is no legal fraud
attending the transaction which would ihvalidate it in a court
of law, or any matter given in evidence which would impair
its obligation in a court of equity, the nature of the iseue
seems to us to require both views to be taken. If Mrs Thomp.
son: cannot be viewud .as the purchaser -of the property contracted to be.invested for her use, she A certainly a fair and
honest creditor from the -time of its execution, if not from the
time of the proposed settlement in August, after the engage.
ment of marriage was made, if she was a'creditor on the 19th
December, Thompson had a right to prefer her in preference
to any other creditor to the extent of his whole property, whenever he codld realize or reduce it into possession. The. mere
priority of the plaintiff's debt, in poMt of time, gave him no
such legal or equitable priority of payment as to prevent the
mdrnage agreement f oma having a legal efficacy on the parties, though Mr Fisher had a previous authority to contract
it, it could not cut out the inchoate rights of Mrs Thompson,
by the engagement and proposed settlement in the summer of
1825, which, you may fairly infer from the agreement, was M
the course of execution, by Thompson having begun to build
a house on the lot of which Mr Stockton was to stand seised
in trstA before the date of- the articles, and the deposition of
Captain Stockton is, that it was built in 1825 and 1826.
These circurmstances may be thrown out of view on both sides,
and the rights of the respective parties be tested at the time of
the consummation of their respective contracts, that of the
plaitifi
on 22d November -and .2d December, and Mr
Thompson's on the 19th if they were both fair creditors, Mr
VoL. VII.- rW

370-

SUPREME COURT.
[Magniac and others v. Thompson.]

Thompson had a clear undoubted'right to prefer either, and
pay the whole debt out of any property on which the other had
no lien, and we are of opinion, that she might be considered
as a fair creditor to the amount of the promised settlement,
made under circumstances which, we think, wholly insufficient
to justify its being rescinded, in whole or in part, in a court of
law or chancery, unless it was attended with actual fraud. If
it had comprehended his whole estate, and the certain consequence of being carried into effect, or the intention of the parties had been to exclude the plaintiff from the payment of him
debts under cover of the agreement, on the equity side of the
courtwe would give him relief. But this case seems to us to
have no such character; the intervention of unexpected losses
Alone, and neither the effect of the agreement or the intention
of 'the parties have produced the existing state of thmgs, which,
if,not changed by ytur verdict, and our judgment, will leave
the -parties thus. The plaintiff's debt was nominally sixtythree thousand dollars; the sum actually received by Mr Fisher
sixty-one thow and and two dollars, beanng an interest of
per cent, of- wnch he has received all now due, principal and
interest, except about twelve thousand dollars; that of Mrs
Thompson, estimating the house and furniture at eighteen
thousand dollars, amounts to fifty-eight thousand dollars, of
which there is yet due thirty-five thousahd dollars, if Moris's
debt is not good, or thirty thousand five hundred dollars if it is
good, besides interest from December 1825. Though this, in
equality of loss, might and would not betof any importance to
hdr in a' court of law, it would be a powerful circumstance in
-a court of equity,"to which the plaintiff would apply for relief
from, alleged hardship. The time at which the contract was
made, and the circumstances then attending it, connected with
the situation of the parties at that time, furnish the proper ritenon by which to ascertain their respective righis; 'if they
have changed by events happening' since,-and are tb be governed by their situation at the. commencement of tie suit; it Is
unportarit to view the change of the marriage contract. Initedd of withdrawing the forty thousand dollars, to be invested
for the use of Mrs ,Thompson, it has been.reduced to five thousand dollars certain, or nine thousaird five hundred dollars con-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magmws and others v. Thompson.]

tingent, had this been the original stipulation, it would hardly
have been deemed an unreasonable or disproportionate consideration for the marnage, of the sum promised, and inerest,
she-will m no event receive more than one fifth, and possibly
orily'one tenth from the wreck of Mr Thompson's property,
while the plaintiff has received more than the half of what
remained due hJm, after deducting the proceeds, of the. two invoices, of which no partwent-to Thompson or his wife, but the
whole was applied to the plaintiff. It is also an important
matter, ap it affects the character of the two contracts at the
time they were made, that Thompson gave no security, and,
pledged no specific fund for the investment of forty thousand
dollars, but as security for the repayment of an actual loan of
sixty-one thousand and two dollars, the plaintiff received as
security goods of wnich the prime cost was eighty-six thousand,
three .hundred dollars.
" This-mew of the merits of this cause seems to the court to
be'sifficient fort the. decision of,.the points directly at issue;
others have be5bn:mad&; and , ably argded. by counsel onboth
sides, butwe are-not disposed to trouble you with-a discussion
not necessary t6 a correct decision of the question between the
parties. The cause'.as been tedious, and its examination silfficiently laborious; we shall not, therefore, investigate, the doctrine of voluntary conveyances or contracts of mamage made
after it has been consummated, they not partaking of -the
character of purchases in consideration of money or marriage.
In the first class of cases, the existence of. debts due by the
grantor at the time of the deed or contract, has a very important, if not decisive bearing on their validity, as to creditors;
the law is not clearly settled, so as to their effect on subsequent
purchasers. But it has never been decided that' a deed conveying to a bona fide purchaser, or an intended wife, is in any
manner impaired by the mere existence of pre-existing debts,_
and to this class of cases alone it is necessary for .you or. the
court to direct their Attention.
"The rules which we have expounded to you, as controlling,
this cause, are such as are founded on principles which are
assented to by counsel on both sides, they differing only in
their application; there can, mdeed, be iio other cuestion, if

SUPREME COURT
[Magniac and others v. Thompson.]

Mrs Thompson is to be considered as a fair purchaser without
notice, or an honest creditor; her claims can only be affected
by fraud in a court of law, or such a case of equitable junsdic..
tion, as could induce a court to annul a conveyance, made in
consideration of money, or as security for a debt, or enjoin the
assertion of any right accruing or clalniiig under it. The
importance of the prindiple involved in this controversy, made
it our duty to examine it at large, and as the sUm in dispute
authonzes either party to take the cause to the supreme court
for revision, we have given an opinion explicitly, so that the
law may be fairly settled. We conclude, then, with instructing you that a settlement made before marriage, makes the
intended wife a purchaser; if agreed to be made, she is a credi.
tor, and protected in the enjoyment of the thing settled, and
entitled to the means of enforcing what is executory, if the
.ransaction was bona fide and without notice or fraud. The
plaintiffs have made an objection to the operation of this deed
for the want of eAridence of delivery; this is a question for you
to decide, the-evidence is sufficient to prove it, if you believe
the witnesses; the building and furnishing the house are facts
tending very strongly to prove the delivery in a satisfactory
manner; the law on this subject is well settled by the supreme
court, in Carver v. Astor, 4 Peters, 23. 28,82. You will apply
it to this case.
"It has. been said that the contract of settlement has been
abandoned; it is not to be presumed, and we think the facts
given in evidence do not amount to it; every act contemplated
to be done by either party, has been performed, except making
up the investment, the omission to complete it is not in itself
sufficient to authorize you to find that the whole contract has
been rescinded, so far as it has been executed, it is not open to
any presumption of the and, and the allegation of abandonrnent seems to be inconsistent with tha charge of .alleged
fraudulent intention to defraud the plaintiffs. You may find,
if you are satisfied with the fact, that the payment of the balance of the forty thousand dollars has been waived by consent
of the parties, but this can have no effect on the investment
actually made. The non-delivery of the securities for the nine
thousand five -hundred dollars, till near the time when judg-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
wamgnsc and others v, Thompson.]
ment was rendered in New Jersey, and the omission to record
the marriage articles, have been relied on in aid of the presumption of abandonment, but under the circumstances of the
case, we do not think they conduce to prove it, (the case last
referred to seems to settle this point, 4 Peters, 24, 98, 99) and
nothing appears from which an inference can be drawn that
Mrs Thompson, for whose benefit this contract was made, has
done or consented to any act which could impair her rights
under it; the omissions of her trustee to enforce the payment
of the money, or to record the deed, cannot be deemed a waiver
by her. If the trustee had done any acts inconsistent with
the agreement, it could not affect the legal validity of her
rights, and the acts of a parent will not be construed to be so
unless clearly intended. 4 Peters, 93, 95.
" The court have been requested to charge you, that m
point of law, the covenant on the part of Mr Richard Stockton
to stand seised to uses, operated as an immediate conveyance
to his daughter before marriage, and that by the marriage,
Thompson became the owner of the furniture in his own right,
and had the exclusive use of the house and lot unincumbered
with the trusts of the agreement. By the covenant contained
in that agreement, Mr Stockton was not to stand seised to the
use of his daughter till after theMarriage; if it is the understanding,of the plaintiff's counsel that there is any evidence of
any other covenant than this, we are unable to perceive it.
The. deposition of captain Stockton is positive, that his father
did not convey, but covenanted to stand seised of said lot
(prout deed), this does not even conduce to prove there wae
any deed independent of the marriage articles, and evidently
refers to it, which the court instruct and charge you, as matter
of law, does not operate by tha statute of uses, 27 Henry 8, to
pass the legal estate to the lot or any other property referred
to in the agreement to Mrs Thompson or the defendant. It
remained in Richard Stockton during his lifetime, devolved by
his death on his heir at law, Captain Stockton, and now remains in hun on a trust executory; it never was and is not
now one executed by that statute. It is -unnecessaryto explain
to you the reasons of this opinion, as it would perplex your
consideration of the case with a dry detail of abstruse princi

SUPREME COURT.
[Kag@=ia and others v. Thhompson.]

ples, neither amusing or instructing to any persons, except
those whose professional or judicial duty may lead them to the
investigation, as a sheer question of law, you will.probably not
be disposed to investigate it for yourselves.
"Thee court are also requested to charge you on three other
points of law. 1. That the expenditure of five thousand dollars in furnishing the house is per se fraudulent on creditors,
we think not: furniture is part of the marriage contract, to be
provided by Thompson in a suitable manner, as he should
think fit. He. had a discretion which he might exercise in a
reasonable manner, according to their station and associations
in life, proportioned to the kind of house and extent of income,
the trustee or wife could not, in law or equity, compel Thompson to furnish it extravagantly.or at useless and wanton expense, and if he should do it voluntarily, it would not be.within
the true spirit and meaning of the marriage articles, and might
be deemed a legal fraud on creditors as to the excess. But
'before we can say that it is a fraud in law to expend five thousand-dollars -in furnishing a house costing thirteen thousand
dollars, and'the %'tablishmentto be supported by the income
of an invesftmenit of forty thousand dollars m"productive funds,
we mlist le mt
eatfied that it isi at the first blush, an extravagant arid unw&ranted expenditure under all the' circumstances
in evidence, arid to an extent indicating some fraudulent or
other motive unconnected with the fair execution of the contract, of which we are not satisfied, and therthre cannot
harge you as requested by the plaintiff's counsel, there being
no clear abuse of the discretion confided by the contract to Mr
Thompson. A less expenditure on both house and furniture
would have been more prudent and discreet in the situation of
the parties in 1826, when the house was finished, something
could have been saved for investment if less expense had been
ircurred, and eight or ten thousand dollars'een made productive. Had this been done, there could have been little groun
of complaint by a creditor; but as to him it was immaterial
how the money was expended, his only concern was in the
amount, not the objects of the expenditure, so that they were
according to the terms of the agreement; whether a given sum
was applied to one object or the other, or fairly proportioned

JANUARY TERM 1883.
[Magmac and others v. Thompson.]

among them, affected only the parties, not creditors. 2. We
are next asked to charge you that the delivery of the notes to
captain Stockton, m September 1829, was a fraud; if it was
done in order to comply, in part, with the agreement, it was
not so; if it was colourable, made with the intention of covering,and concealing so mucb, under pretence of the marriage
articles for Thompson's use, and so received by the trustee, it
was legally fraudulent as to creditors--but if delivered with
such intention,.and ;not so accepted, then captain Stockton
might not only fairly. apply it to the trust fund, but was bound
to do so. Though it may have been done on the eve of the
judgment confessed in New Jersey, that would.make no difference, it being to carry into effect the agreement of December
1825; had it been to makeoa new settlement after marriage, if
it was in consideration of a portion: or property, it would not
have been fiaudulent per -se; and the time which intervenes
between the making provision for a wife, and the contracting
the debt'or obtaining a judgment against the husband, is not
a matter which per se makes it a fraud, it may or may not be.
suspicious, and connected with other circumstances as evidence
of it. 4 Wheat. 506. 507, 508.
0 The remaining point on which, the charge of the court is
requested, is, that the marriage agreement. is yold, because not
recorded within the time required. by the law of New Jersey
for recording deeds. The covenant to stand seised to the uses
declared would come within this law, if the uses were executed
by the statute so as to make it an actual conveyance or deed
passing the-legal estate, but being executory, it is only a covenant giving an equitable estate-to those for whom the trust
was created and.continues, and not-a deed. But considering
it as a deed, the want of recording does not .make it void as
between the parties, though it would become void as to the
creditors (perhaps) and purchasers from Richard Stockton
without notice; bit the omission to record it is no fraud on
plaintiff, and- cannot affect him, not being void as between
the parties, it giv% to John R. Thompson no other estate or
interest but such asanses from the trust, he cannot be entitled
to any legal estate or interest under it incompatible with the
nature and terms and objects of the trtit;' our instruction,

SUPREME COURT.
[MfgmZcand othera v. Thompson.]
therefore, is, that the marriage contract is not void for want of
being recorded in time.
"CThe principles of law which have been t~hus expounded to
you as the guides to your verdict, are all which are deemed biy
the court or counsel to be applicable to the merits of this case,
or necessary to be understood, in order to decide it correctly;
theyform what, in our judgmenty is the pre-existing law of the
case, and have been extracted from judicial decisions which
Afford to our minds conclusve evidence of their wisdom and
justice. The rules laid down are not new ones, either here or
in that country which is the source of our jurisprudence, and
to whose judicial tribunas thewisest and best judges will look
without any fear of foreign influence; to some with veneration,
And to all with. respect, as the 'expositors of the same common
Itw which originated there, and, adopted in this country, is the
source of national pride to both, as a system equally distinguished for its wisdom and public benefits. It has not been
thought necessary to cite to you all the particular cases in
which judges have established these principles, or refer you to
the time of their application, as the nature of thecases decided
may have led to their development, this is more proper in
courts of error, or in deciding in others, questions referred solely
to the court. The course pursued saves you much-time, and
relieves your imnds from much perplexity; it does not produce
any injury to the'parties; itsaves you from a comparison between the character of .the courts and, judges, who may have
given judgments or opinions, settling and declaring the rules
of the common law or the construction of statutes. Whether
we have, in forming our judgment as to the law of this case,
drawin from the old and pure fountains of our jrisprudence, or
the muddy rivulets which flow from them, need only be decided
by that tribunal to whom none appeal without full confidence
that it will in justice give such judgment as will correct all the
errors of inferior courts. You will not be willing to confide more
in your own judgment to correct any mistakes which this court
may have committed in the instructions they have given you,
than in that of the supreme court, to whom either party. may
submit this cause. Let our judgment be what it may as to
the law, it can do harm to no one without their sanction; with

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magniac and others v. Thompson.]

their approbation a safe rule of titles and property will be established, your judgment might not lead to one so sound or permanent. -Much of what you- have heard, has been repeated
from the adjudication of that ourt,. much from. those of Eng'land, their judges and chancell irs, whose judgments, decrees.
and opinions have been carefully reviewed and' approved by
the pure and eminent jurists who have presided in our own
courts. If, in following the path which they have pursued in
the administration of justice, this court looks abroad-as well -as
at'hoie for light and knowledge to guide our course of legal
investigation, it has been and will continue to be done without
the fear of being misled by example, or the self-reproach of'
adopting in our or inculcating in your minds, principles unsound in law, or dangerous in their moral-tendency."
The case was argued by Mr C;,J. Ingersoll for the plaintiffs
in error, and by Mr Binney for the defendant.

The counsel for the plaintiffs made the following assignment
-oferrors
The charge of the court instructed the jury that under-the
circumstances in evidence, the. law is against the plaintiffi,
that the marnage settlement in question would be valid unless
all the parties thereto were guilty of fraud, that marriage is a
sufficient consideration for settlement, and left to the jury nothing to find by their verdict, but whether the defendant's wife
and father were equally guilty with the defendant in the
alleged contrivance to defeat the plaintiffs, arguing, as thp
charge does thrQughout, that the verdict should be for .the
defendant.
He also submitted in argument the following points of law.
1. .The settlement covenants that the grantor should furnish
the house in a suitable manner as he should judge suitable.
and proper. As he proved insolvent, and unable to comply
with the other terms of the settlement, it was contended for
the plaintiffs that five thousand dollars was a fraudulent investment in furniture ;- on whibh the jury were to pass their
VOL. VIL-2 X

SUPREME COURT.
[Magniac and others v. Thompson.]

verdict. The court rejected this view, assumed to determine
tha the sum was proper, and would not permit the jury to
pass upon it.
2. The settlement covenants that the grantor would. in the
space of one year from the time of the marriage place out on
good security, in stock or otherwise, the sum of forty thousand
dollars, and hand over the evidences thereof to the trustee.
This, covenant was never fulfilled: But some years afterwards, when the trustee was dead, on the eve of the judgment
confessed by the grantbr in New Jersey, lie passed over two
promissory notes for nine thousand five hundred dollars,, together, to the son of the trustee, in performance as was said
of the settlement in part. This was contended for the planfitiffs to.be fraudiulent, and as such to be passed upon by the
jury. The couxt overruled this position, and charged that
unless the notes were both delivered by the grantor and
accepted by Robert Stockton, with fraudulent intentions, the
transfer is good.
3. As the deed of settlement was not registered till after-the
plaintiffs' judgment in Jersey against the defendant, it was
insisted for the plaintiffs, that pursuant to the express provision
of the statute of New Jersey, in that case, the prior judgment.
prevails over the subsequent settlement. The statute of uses,
27 Eliz. ch. 10, annexes the possession to the use, the lot and
house held by Richard Stockton, in trust for his daughter,
became her property, which the husband reduced into his possession, and the plaintiffs' judgment binds it, notwithstanding
the subsequent marriage settlement. This was also overruled
by the court.
Mr Ingersoll contended
Th'i plaintiffs are prior creditors. There was ho contract
for a marriage settlement until a month after the defendant,
through his agent, contracted the debt in question to the plaintiffs. The property settled is enough to pay the debt, so that
the marriage settlement is the only hindrance, and the question
is whether itas an insuperable legal impediment. The philosophy of the law on this subject is simple honesy-to give

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magmae and others v. Thompson.]

every one his own. The English common law, which is our
law, differs from the law of all the rest of 'the civilized world
in identifying the wife with the husband. A married woman
can own nothing, canq lose nothing, can hardly be guilty of a
imsdemeanour if by construction of law it may be imputed to
her husband, whereas in the countries of the civil law,
marriage is like a commercial partnership, a firm in which
the interests of husband and wife axe the same, respecting the joint stock or property. In the great families of
England, says Lord Mansfield, it has been found convenient
to establish marriage settlements, which luxury and chancery
have entrenched behind the principles of the civil law, usurping the free empire of the common law So long ago as the
year 1570, the statute 13 Elizabeth indicates a primitive and
proper repugnance to such a contrivance, and endeavours to
reinstate the common law, impaired by marriage settlements
and other fraudulent conveyances, for which it enacts not
only annihilation, but punishment. In defiance howeyer of
this resistance of the common law, and the statute law, which
is but declaratory of the common law, the English chancellors,
who were always interested parties, have built up a system of
encroachment and exclusiveness ill suited to American manners, fortunes and institutions. The mtate of New Jersey by
an act of assembly re-enacted the statute of Elizabeth, which
itself was but declaratory of the common law, and though
American judges are deplorably prone to follow blindly in the
ruts of British precedent, yet we may at least claim .ir as the
settled law of this court that we are to be governed by English
law before the American revolution, and not to follow them
in all .the enormities which they are chargeable with since.
Cathcart v. Robinson, 5 Peters, 264.
The. case of Campion v. Campion, 17 Vez..262, may be
mentioned as one of those strumpet decisions of the modern
English chancery which it is tobe hoped do not give ihe law
to this country.
The present is the case of a man in trade, with immense
outstanding debts and liabilities, without a particle of real
estate, or even of personal, but in mere speculation, who im.

SUPREME COURT.
[Magmac and others v. Thompson.]
mediately after the marriage declared is inability to settle the
property proniised by the marriage settlement, who has not
and never had any goods, stocks, credit, property, or estate of
any.kind, nothing to pledge even if he wanted to borrow, who
pleads utter insolvency, who settled on his marriage the very
money he borrowed of the plaintiffs, and who now lives upon
it in their despite. Within a month of the crash of his father's
immense failure, with whom he was connected in trade, which
was an affair of such importance as to be published in the
English newspapers, the defendant, by marrage settlement,
set apart and now withholds all he could ever claim, and much
more than he ever was entitled to;
The question is whether such is a valid marriage settlementThat it hinders the plaintiffs who are prior creditors is beyond
all question. In the court below it was insisted for the defendant that by antenuptial settlement the wife is a purchaser,
holding by a consideration equivalent if not superior to the
most valuable. For the plaintiff, conceding this .position, it
'was contended nevertheless that there must be a fair transaction, -as well as a valuable consideration, that fraud. will
vitiate any contract whatever, that even acquittances, bonds,
laws, treaties, may be annulled by fraud, and why not the
contract of marriage settlement! The charge sanctioned both
these positions, the plaintiffs without reserve., carrying it out
in argument ad libitum, and the plaintiffs' position with a
qualification which forms the first exception, to wit, that to
invalidate a marriage settlement the wife and her father must
combine with the settlor or husband, and be equally guilty with
him of premeditated fraud. The charge is explicit that there
must be not only notice or knowledge, or even participation,
but combination and premeditation of all together and alike.
This, it is submitted, is not the law. The jury were misled
in being so instructed. They should, have been advised that
they might find fraud in the husband, and knowledge of or
notice to the wife.or father, and that such a state of things
would vitiate the settlement as a fraudulent transaction. The
charge considers, first, fraud in fact, secondly, the question of
property under the special agreement, and thirdly, fraud in

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magnmc and othemYv. Thompson.]

law, or constructive fraud. The jury supposed, and had reason to suppose, that unless they found the wife and father
equally guilty with the husband, they must affirm the marnage settlement as a fair transaction. It even goes so far as
to say, in an argument much elaborated to support the settlement, that it would be cruel and harsh in the extreme, and
mconsistent with law and justice, to visit the wife with the
husband's fraud, unless she concurred in the intention of it,
and was guilty of the 4combmnation. Now, the law, as expressly enacted by the statute of Elizabeth, and by the act of
New Jersey, the common law, the common sense, the obvious
morality and reason of the case are, that if either wife or father
knew or might have known, or had the least reason to suspect,
the husband's fraud, the transaction is altogether fiauddlent
and void. For it is a question to be determined by the whole
transaction, not a part of it. The argument of the charge to
thejury puts it to,them to ascertain how muih. fraud there was,
whereas it is submitted as the law, the reason and the morality
of the contested principle, that any thU leastparticle of fraud by
either party, with any the least notice to the other party,
vitiates and annihilates the whole proceeding. The proviso
or exception of-the sixth section. (Atherly, 212) is to except
those settlements -wichare made. on good consideration and
bona fide without any manner of notice or knowledge of the
fraud and so are the authorities. Cadogan v. Kennet, Cowp.
434, Doe v. Ruiledge, Cowp. 710, Blanchard v. Ingersoll,
4 Dal. 305, GeigeK v. Welsh, -1Rawle, 353, 1 Roper on Husband and Wife, 298, Dewey v. Baynton, 6 East, 257, Barrow
v. Barrow, 2 Dick. 506, Sexton v. Wheaton, 4 Wheat. 507,
same case, 8 Wheat.. 389, Hinde v. Longwortb, 10 Wheat.
213, Johnston v. Harvey, -2Penn. Rep. 82, Garland v. Rives,
4 Rand. 282, the two last cases are in point.
In all these cases and on all occasions the questionwas and
must be, was it a fair trakwactlot4 not how much fraud -was
there id it. In postnuptial cases the. law infers fraud. In
antenuptial cases it is the question to be tried. It is a. ques.
tion of fact, which -a court cannot compel a jury, to qualify.
The morality which -pervades all -law, and which is the law

SUPREME COURT.
*[Magntac and others v. Thompson.]

itself, prohibits all fraud, not merely a combinationof fraud, and
it considers -the slightest notice .as the fullest participation.
Edward Thompson's enormous failure shortly before the settlement, involving John Thompson, must have excited suspicion
and incuiry; and the fact is, and such was the plaintiff' argument on the trial, that Mr Stockton repudiated the settlement,
satisfied as he must have become of its invalidity. For. the
poignancy of'the misdirection is that it was a complete surprise:.
the fact of combination or participation between husband and
fathernever having been suggested or'intimated-by the plaintiffs' counsel to the jury. On the gontrary, their argument
was that far from combining, Mr Stockton revolted at the settlement, and refused to complete it. This argument was
drawn from the incontrovertible and conclusive facts, that it
aever was either acknowledged or recorded during his life, but
remained a dead letter in family secret, never carried into execution, owing to the settlor's acknowledgement immediately
after the marriage that he was unable to set apart the forty
thousand dollars stipulated by the settlement to be invested
for the use of the wife, or any part of it, being, as he ackniow]edged, utterly insolvent. Thus his immense debts, large
losses, and- overwhelming liabilities, becoming known to Mr
Stockton immediately after the settlement was signed, and the
marriage took place, he did not choose to involve his daughter
and himself in the useless odium of such an illegal- attempt to
deprive creditors of their property. The settlement was there,
fore cast away, never completed while Mr Stockton lived,
never acted upon, and no attempt ever made to realize it, till
by tie settlor .lust on the eve of his confession of judgment to
the plaintiff, when he had it acknowledged and recorded. -All
these circumstances the plaintiff had a right to submit to the
jury as prdof of knowledge or.n6tice, to be inferred, not from
participation in the fraud, but repudiation of it. But the court.
instead of suffering 'this view to be presented to the jury for
their determination, frustrated it by a misdirection as to combination, which left the jury ilothing to find but the fact of
coMbination or a verdict for the defendant.
'Even in the definition of fraud the charge misdirected the

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magmiac and others v. Thompson.]

jury by a reference to the case of Nicol v. Conard, 4 Peters,
296, where Judge W.ashington's attention was fixed on the
instance of fraud by one with notice to another, not that of
fraud by two or more which is defined covin. Co. Litt. 357, b.
defines it as referred to by Judge Washington. But both Littleton in the text, and Coke in the 'ommentary, put instances
of individual fraud in which two or more are concerned, as
contradistingmshed from the fraud of combination, or covin.
So doea Hardwicke in the case of Chesterfield v. Jansen, 2 Yes.
Sen. 155. So. does Mansfield in the case of Cadogan.v. Kennet,
Cowp. 43, where the very case is put of a fraudulent conveyance
to an innocent trustee. Such are the cases of Garland v. Rives
and Johnston v. Harvey before cited. In the case of the Postmaster General v. Reeder, 4 Wash. C. C. Rep. 683, Judge
Washington explains his opinion of fraud actual and constructive; and in the case of Gihan v. The North American Land
Company, 1 Peter's C. C. Rep. 464, he individuates it. The
charge3 it is therefore submitted, annuls the whole law of
notice as to fraudulent conveyances, and makes -every one a
fair purchaser who is not a participator ih the fraud, so that a
.wife or fatherhave only to remain wilfully ignorant of a husband's fraud, and a family settlement will be valid of property
acquired by highway robbery. Oni the part of the plaintiff, it
is submitted that the principle of law is to be found well expressed in the careful language of the sixth section of the
statute of Elizabeth, that entire good faith, besides a valuable
consideration, are indispensable to the validity of every marnage settlement.
Exception was also taken to three distinct errors alleged
against the charge as follows:
First. The s6ttlement -covenants that the grantor should
furnish the.house m a suitable manner. As he proved msolvent.and unable to comply with the other terms of the settlement, it was contended that five thousand dollars was a fraudulent investment in furniture, on which the jury were to pass
their verdict. The court overruled this position, would not
peribit the jury to pass. upon it, but assumed to itself thQ determination that there was no fraud. The case of Campinn

SUPREME COURT.
[Magniac and others Y.Thompson.]

v. Campion,. 17 Yes. 262, the authority of which has been
-drned, sanctions thtn position of the plaintif' counsel, and is
authority-afortiorn when it deteimmes against a family settlement.
Secondly. The settlement covenants that-the grantor would
in the space of a year pace the sum of forty thousand dollars
on good security and 'hand over the evidences, thereof to the
.trustee; which covenant was never fullilled. But several
years afterwards, the trustee having in the. meanwhile died
without the acknowledgement or registry of the conveyance;
the settlor, on the-eve of the judgment he confessed to the
plaintiff, passed over two promissory notes to the trustee's successor, in part performance of the settlement, as it was said.
For the plaintiff it was contended that this was fraudulent, and
as such to.be passed upon by the jury. The court overruled
this position;- and erroneously, as i§ submitted, assumed to
-itself to determine that there was no fraud unless the settlor
and the trustee concurred m it.
Thirdly. The deed of settlement was not recorded till after
the plaintiffs' jidgnent; in which case the act of -assembly of
-New Jersey is explicit that the conveyance is inoperative as
against the judgment. Act of 5th June 1820, Laws of New
Jersey, ed. 1821, page 747. Two cases have been determined
in South Carolina, where the law is similar, that are strongly
in point. Ward v. Wilson,.l" Dessaus. 401. Forrest v. Warrington, 2 Dessaus. 264. The statute of uses, 27Elizabeth, ch.
10, annexes the possession to the use. The house and lot
held by Mr Stockton in trust for his daughter became her property by the express terms of this statute: tlhe husband by
occupation reduced it into.his possession; and the plaintiffs"
judgment binds it notwithstanding the marnage settlement.
The statute is positive that of real estate held for her use the
seisin is in her. 4 Cruise, Dig. 96 (133), 419 (420), tit. xi.
ch. 3, s. 4, 5, 6. The charge is that the marrage article is
not a conveyance, but antexecUtory covenant,. which makes
no difference, for the statute ih terms comprehends that with
all sgnilar cases. It is the very case the statute ihatended to
.provide against.

JANUARY TERM 1533.
[IMarna. and others v. Thompson.]

Mr Binney, for the defendant in error.
There -cannot be. a better introduction to me defendant's
argument, than a reference to Carver v. Jackson, 4 Peters, 80
upon the sweeping exceptions to the charge of.the circuit court,
which this bill of exceptions exhibits. Thq whole charge is set
out, and the whole is excepted to, .the recommendation of this
court to the contrary notwithbtanding; and the, proper- corrective of the practice if persisted in, would seem to be,.to disregard
every exception which any possible interpretation of the charge.
can obviate. A fair interpretation, as it is termed, does not
belong to a practice which, whatever be its motive, is unjust to
the court, the opposite, counsel, and the cause. Nothing, however, is necessary to support this charge but the application of
common rules.
What the plaintiffs' paper book calls the overpowerng argument of the court upon the facts, is not. a ground of exception.
Whether the opimon of the court was- right or wrong, it did
not bind the jury. It may be difficult in some cases, and it
was impossible in this, -to say any thing about the facts, without an overpowernng argument against the plaintiffs' claim. So
far as that claim asserted any intentional wrong m any one of
the parties to the settlement, it was wholly without foundation
or colo ur. The naked question pre~ented bythe case, if question it was, was whether an antenuptial marriage settlement,
a settlement m consideration of marriage, without the -least
suspicion by the intended wife or her trustee of either insolvency or debt on the part of the intended husand, was good
against creditors. The facts-exhibit nothing to.vary tfie terms
of this question. In the autumn of 1825 the-defendantwas
worth from eighty to. ninety thousand dolldis, without any
debt, and-without any responsibility, except for a respondentia
contract, which resulted in no loss. In September he made
proposals of marriage and of settlement, and was accepted.
On the 19th of December the articles in question were executed,
after a statement of his property, set forth in the bill of exceptions. The marriage soon afterwards took place. The-de,
fendant then completed the house upon Mr Stockton's lot, at
a cost of about twelve thousand dollars, and' furz~ished it-at a
cost of about four thousand dollars, and in 1829 he handed to
VOL. VII.--:2 Y

SUPREME COURT.
[Magmac, and others v. Thompson.]
the trustee five thousand dollars of good, and four thousand
five.hundred dollars of doubtful property, on account of the
marriage settlement, and this is all that it has produced. The
plamtifgs'.demand, and the only demand in existence against
the defendant, except a loan for -ersonal expenses. during his
embarrassments, arose out of a contract in Canton, of the 22d
November 1825. It was a loan of sixty-three thousand dollars, made.upon a pledge of all the merchandize which that
sum purchased in Canton, and twenty-three thousand dollars
more, with the additional benefit of coming freight free to the
United States, the intended market of the investment. The
loan was made without the knowledge, and against the expectation of the defendant, but in virtue of a power left behind
hun to meet the contingency, which occurred, of his father's
ships requirmg funds to fill themup; and the commercial disasters of the season not only absorbed the entire pledge, but
left the defendant a debtor to the extent of the judgment in
the circuit court. The peculiar feature of this debt is therefore, that it is the residuum of a mortgage debt, after an onginal
pledge of the entire investment of the money and a third more,
and the specific transaction moreover unknown to the debtor
at the time, and of course to the intended wife. What effect
such a debt would have upon a postnuptial settlement, is a
question'that does not ahse here. It would be a stronger case
for such a settlement, than has ever been held to be insufficient.
The statute 13 Elizabeth does not avoid any settlement
as voluntary, but only as fraudulent. Actual fraud in such a
case could not be suggested upon the evidence, and if the law
would presuTe it, it must do so in every imaginable case in
which the settled property becomes necessary'by subsequent
disaster, to pay the husband's previous debts. This proposition
does not appear to be warranted br the books. The pfesent is,
however, an antenuptial settlement, upon the valuable consideration of marriage, the very highest consideration, as it is in
one instance said, that is known to the law. 2 Eq. Ca. Abr.
585. It- is -alid against purchasers as well as preditors, purchasers even without notice, unlesa they have got the legal
pstgtp; J tlbe wife s a pirchaser, and has pqO.l eqWvy.
Athorly 129, 151, Roberts oi Fraud. Cork. 19,% MP; Rev-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magnac and others v. Thompsoni]

nell v. Peacock, 2 Roll. Rep. 105; Sir Ralph Bovfs case, 1
Ventr. 194, Douglass v. Ward, 1 Cases mi Chan. 99; Ex'parte
Marsh, 1 Atk. 158; Brown v. Jones, 1 Atk. 190; Northv.
Ansell, 2P Wins. 618; Wheler v. Caryl, Ambl. 121, Brown
v. Carter, 5 Ves. Jun. 878, Doe v. Routledge, Cowp. 712,
Nairne v. Prowse, 6 Ves. Jun. 752, East India. Company v.
Clavel, 3 Bac. Abr. 315, Fraud.
Being such a consideration, the statute 13 Eliz. expressly
excepts it from its operation. It excepts deeds upon valuable
consideration, even fraudulently intended by the gratitor to
defeat his creditors, unless the grantee has notice or knowledge
of such covin. The intended wife, and not merely her trustees
must have notice or knowledge that the bounty of the husband
is intended as a fraud upon his creditors. 'Nothing, short ofthis will answer. The fraud and the intended fraud, without
such notiqe, are nothing more than in the case of an ordinary
sale. Barrow v. Barrow, 2 Dick. 504, Champion v. Coiton,
"17 Veg. 263, Tunno'v. Trevisant, 2 Desaus. 264, Preble v.
Boghurst, 1 Swanst. 319.
The plaintiffs' counsel, while he impugned the docttiiie
in the circuit court, admits it here, and objects to the charge
because it goes further. He understands the judge to have
charged that something more is necessary than notice -of
the intended fraud, that there must be combination, concur.
rence, confederacy, preconcert. Supposing this- not to have
been explained or qualified, it means nothing more than what
must exist in every such case as the. plaintiff alleged this to be,
one, namely, in which notice, if brought home at all, was so
to a party witA whom a previous negotiatiot was made for the.
deed, and who, in consummation of the treaty, accepted the
deed. In such a case, all parties are actors in the fraud. The
fraud is perpetrated -with the aid of a party conscious of it, and
assisting at its birth. If A. mdkes a fraudulent deed to B.,
C. may know of it, without combimng or concurring; but if B.
has notice of the fraud before, and at the time of accepting the
deed, he is guilty of combination, .oncurrence, confederacyand
preconcert with the grantor. There is unity of action and
design in both. The statute, in such a case, punishes the

SUPREME COURT.
[Magniac and others v. Thompson.]
grantee by a penalty This,. consequently, was. good law m
reference to the case, as the plaintiff himself stated it.
But the court did not say that something more than notice was
necessary. They simply stated what in every such case notice
to the grantee must amourit to. This meaning is obvious from
manyparts of the charge, and particularly from the concluding
summary, in which the instruction is given to the jury. ' A
settlement made-before marnage, makes the intended wife a
purchaser. If agreed to be made, she is a creditor, and protected inthe enjoyment of the thing settlkd, and entitled.to
the means of enforcing what is executory, if the transaction
was bona fide, and without notice offraud." The facts of fraud
in the husband, and notice to the wife, were left to the jury
The doctrine of the court was, that both must be shown by the
plaintiff; and if this is right, the main exception fails.
The main points adhered to m this court by the learned
counsel, admit of short answers.
1. The paper book reisstates the charge as to the furniture.
The bill of exceptions must be the guide. It shows the plaintiffi' prayer to have been *foran instruction that the expenditure of five thousand dollars in furnmishing the house was per se,
fraudulent, which the court refused. There is no such proposition in law, as that a covenant "to furnish a house m a suitable manner, as the husband shall judge fit and proper," which
is the language.of the covenant, or an actual expenditure to
the extent of five thousand dollars, is per se fraudulent. Thera
must be other circumstances.. These were marriage articles,
rather than a consummate settlement, and chancery will so
mould and control them as to effectuate the intention, annulling the excess of the execution beyond what was lawfully mtended. Atherley, 92, 106, 121. It is a strong proposition
to assert, that an unsuitable expenditure by the husband, contrry-to the express language of Ihs covenant, shall defeat the
wife's settlement for any thing more than .the excess, when
that is made out by evidence. The court expressed an opinion
that the.expenditure, might be bad for the excess when shown,
andwere right m refusing to say that a given expenditure was,,
per se, a-fraud.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magnmc and others Y.Thompson.]
2. The delivery of notes to the trustee, upon the eve of .the
plaintiffs' judgment, was good, if the settlement was so. The
-trusteewas a creditor to a much larger amount, and the debtor
had a right to prefer him. The court were right in saying
that the payment or delivery was good, unless made by the
defendant with the retention of covering the property under
pretence of the articles, and so accepted by the trustee,
3. The New Jersey statute of 5th June 1820, is wholly
misconceived, or rather its effect. If the deed is void by-reason
of the non-registry, the real estate, upon winch alone the
statute bas any bearing, remains the property of R. Stockton,
and is liable to his creditors. The creditors of the grantor, and
not the grantee, are the creditors meant by the statute. It is
difficult to sustain the exception, that the judgment against
Thompson is to prevail over the settlement and defeat it, when
it is only by the validity of the settlement that Thompson can
have any thing m the land for the,judgment to affect. It is a
further mistake. to suppose that any use in the real estate, mthe
settlement, was executed by the statute in the defendant, The
legal estate was intended to remain in R. Stockton, for the
'performance of the trusts. They rould not be performed witn.
out it. He was, in certain events to lease, to receive the
rents, to convey. The execution of a use. in the defendant,
would have been contrary to the whole scope of the articles, and
therefore it is not executed. 1 Saunders on Uses, 246, 206,
208, and the authorities there cited; 1 Shep. Touch. 505.
But if executed in the defendant as to the legal estate, it
could not ,have altered the case, as he would have thereby
become a trustee for the purposes of thb settlement; and, con-sequently, for the separate use of his wife and her children.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court for the district of
Pennsylvama. The .original actionwas a feigned issue between the plamti's, who are creditors, and the defendant,.tc
try the question, whe.t.her he is able to pay the debt due to
.them, and thm depends upon the validiy of certain articles of
settlement, made -i contemplation of a marriage between the
defendant and Miss Annms Stockton, daughter of 'the late Rich-

SUPREME COURT.
[Magmac and others v. Thompson.]

ard Stockton, Esq. stated in the case. The verdict m the court
below was for the defendant, and judgment having been ren.dered thereon accordingly, the present writ of error is brought
to revise that judgment, upon a bill of exceptions taken tW the
charge of the court at the trial.
The whole charge of the court is spread upon the record
(a practice which this court have uniformly discountenanced,
and which, we trust, a rule made at the last term will effectually suppress), and the question now is, whether that charge
contains any erroneous statement of the law; for as to the
comments of the court upon the evidence, it is almost unnecessary to say, after what was said by this court m Carver v.
Jackson, 4 Peters's Reports, 80, 81, that we have nothing-to
do with them. In examining the charge for the purpose of
ascertaining its correctness m point of law, the whole scope
and bearing of it must be taken together. It is wholly madmissible to take up single and detached passages, and to decide
upon them -without attending to the context, or without mcorporating such qualifications and explanations as naturally flow
from the language of other parts of the charge. In short, we
are to construe the whole as it must have been understood,
both by the court and the jury, at. the tne when -it was delivered.
The material facts are as follows: The plaintiffs and the
defendant were resident merchants in China, and the defendant left it in March 1825 to visit America. In the summer of
that year -he paid his addresses to Miss Stockton, then resident
with her father in New Jersey, by whom his addresses were
accepted; and in contemplation of marriage on the 19th of
December of the same year the articles of marriage settlement
referred to were executed. They purport to be articles of
agreement and covenant between the defendant of the first
part, Miss Annis Stockton of the second part, and Richard
Stockton, father and trustee of Miss Stockton, of the third part.
By these articles, after reciting the intended marriage, and
that Richard Stockton, the father, had promised to give a certam lot of land (described in the articles) to his daughter, upon
which the defendant, Thompson, had begun to build a house,
it is stated that R. Stockton covenants, in consideration of the

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magmac and others v. Thompson.]
said marriage, and his love and affegtion for his daughter, that
from the time of the marriage he will stand seised of the lot
and premises in trust to permit the defendant and Annis his
wife to live in and occupy the same; and if they do not think
proper so to do, then to let out the premises on lease, and receive the rents and profits and pay over the same to the said
Annis during the joint lives of herself and her husband (the
defendant), if the defendant should survive his said wife and
have issue by her, then in trust to permit him during his life
to inhabit and occupy the premises, if he iliould elect so to do,
and to pay over the rents and profits to him for the support of
himself and his family, without his (the defendant's) being
accountable therefor; and after his death, in trust for the
child or children of. the marriage in equal shares as tenants m
common, and if no childien, then upon the death of either the.
husband or the wife, to convey the premises to the survivor in
fee simple. By the same instrument the defendant covenants,
that if the marriage should take effect, and in consideration
thereof, he will, with all convenient speed, build and furnish
the house in a suitable manner,', as he shall judge fit and proper, and that the erections, improvements and furniture shalt
be subject to and included in the trusts. And further, that he
will, in the space of a year from the marnage, place- out at
good security, in stock or otherwise, the sum of forty thousand
dollars, and hand over and assign-the evidences thereof to the
trustee, who shall hold the same in trust to receive the interest,
profits and dividends thereof for. the wife, during the jointlives
of herself and her husband. And if she should die before her
husband, and there should be issue of the marriage, then in
trust to receive the interest, profits and dividends, and pay the
same to the husband during his life, for the support and maintenance of himself and children, without any account, and
after his death, in trust for the children of the marriage. A
similar provision is made in case of the surwvorship of the wife;
and if no children, then the trustee is to assign and deliver the
securities and moneys remaining due to the survvor, to his or

her own use.
Such are the most material clauses of the marriage articles.
Before the execution of them, the defendant made out a writ-

SUPREME COURT
,[Magnmac and others v. Thompson.1

ten statement of his pecuniary circumstances, in which he
states that heowes no personal debts except to a small amount,
.m the common course of business; that be is surety for his
father in a bottomrybond to Messrs Schott and Lippincott, in the
penal sum of two hundred thousand dollars, upon which there
was a pledge of goods, supposed to be sufficient to discharge
the bond; and if any loss should accrue, it could not be more
than twenty thousand dollars, and that he considered himself
worth that amount, if not more, in addition to the sun proposed to be settled.
From the testimony in the case, which is .stated in the
-.charge, it appears that the marriage was consummated, that
the defendant built the house on the lot mentioned in the articles at an expense of tburteen thousand dollars, and furnished
it at the expense of five thousand dollars, but invested no part
of the forty thousand dollars during. the life of the trustee. It
also appears, that at the time of executing the articles, he was
worth about eighty or ninety thousand dollars in money and
personal ptoperty; that Ins agent in China, in November and
December 1825, borrowed of the plaintiffs sixty-three thousand
dollars on the pledge and security of property of the invoice
value of eighty-six thousand dollars and upwards, -on the
credit of the defendant, but entirely for the use of the defendant's father, in order to complete the cargoes of his ships, then
at Canton short of funds. The property arrived at a losing
market, and the debt now due to the plaintiffs by the defendant, grew out Qf their transactions, his father having failed on
the 19th of November, 1825; but the existence of the loan contracted with the plaintiffs, was not known to the defendant
(though fully authorized to be made, if necessary) until -the
spring of 1826.
The marriage articles were never recorded in New Jersey,
where the land lies, until May 1830, after the death of the
trustee. In September 1829, shortly before the plaintiffi obtamed a judgment for either debt agaiinst the defendant, the
defendant delivered over to captain Robert Stockton, the son
of the trustee, who succeeded him in the trust, securities to the
amount of nine thousand five hundred dollars on account of
the sum tO be invested pursuant to the marriage articles.

JANUARY. TERM 1833.
.Magniac and others v. Thompson.]

Such are the material facts which appeared at the trial, and
the question was, whether, under all the circumstances,-the
marriage articles were void as a fraud upon creditors. With
reference to this point, the learned judge who delivered the
charge to the jury, made, among others, the following remarks.
"To taint a transaction with fraud, both parties must concur
in the illegal design. It is not enough to prove fraud in the
debtor. He may lawfully sell his property, with the direct
intention of defrauding his creditors, or prefer one creditor to
another. But,:unless tie purchaser or preferred creditor receives the property with the same fraudulent design, the contract is valid against other creditors or purchasers, who may be
injureid by the transaction." "Before you can pronounce this
marriage agreement void' and inoperative on the ground of
actual fraud, you must be satisfied, not only that the defendant
made it with design to defraud his creditors, but also that Mrs
Thompson, and her father and trustee, Mr Richard Stockton,
participated and concurred in the fraud intended. If they
were innocent of the combination, it would be harsh and cruel
in the extreme to visit on her the serious consequences of her
intended husband's acts, and as inconsistent with law as justice." "The deeds, gifts, grants or other contracts, which
the law avoids, are those made with intent to defraud, hinder,
*delayor iiijure creditors; and in order to avoid them, both the
party giving and the party receiving must participate in the
fraud." "The words of the law (the statute of 13 Elizabeth,
ch. 5), require that both parties must concur in the fraud in
order to bring the same within the proisions."
Nothing can be clearer, both. upon principle and authority,
than the doctrine, that to make an antenuptial settlement
void, as a'fraud upon creditors, it is necessary that both parties
should concur in, or have ,cognizance of the intended fraud.
If the settler alone intend a fraud, and the other party have no
notice of it, but is innocent of it, she is not, and cannot be
affected by it. Marriage, in contemplation of the law, is not
only a valuable consideration to support such a settlement, but
is a consideration of the highest value, and from motives of
the soundest policy is upheld with a steady resolution. The
VOL. VII.-2 Z

SUPREME COURT.
[Magmiac and others v. Thompson.]

husband and wife, parties to such a contract, are therefore
deemed in the highest sense purchasers for a valuable consideration, and so that it is bona fide, and without notice of
fraud, brought home to both sides, it becomes unimpeachable
by creditors Fraud may be imputable to the parties, either
by direct co-operation in the original design at the .time of its
concoction, or .by constructive co-operation from notice of it,
and carrying the design, after such notice, into execution.
The argument at the bar admits these principles to be incontrovertible. But it is supposed by the counsel for the plaintiffs
in error, that the charge contains a different and~broader doctine; that it requires active co-operation, pre-concert and participation in the original design of fraud, and that notice of it
is not sufficient to avoid the settlement, although all the parties, after such notice, proceed to execute it.
It appears-to us that this is an entirely enoneous view of the
scope and reasoning of the charge, even m the passages above
cited. But taking them in connexion with other passages in
the same charge, it is beyond doubt that no such distinction
was in the mind of the court, or was m fact uttered to the jury.
The language of the charge has reference to the-actual posture
of the case before the court, and not to any other possible state
of facts. The case was not of a settlement already made and
executed by the settler alone, with a fraudulent intent, to
which settlement the wife or her trustee were not contemplated
to be executing parties, and which was, after notice of the
intent, accepted by them, in which the effect of notice might
have been the very hinge of the cause. But the case was of
marriage articles al4out to be executed by all the parties upon
negotiations then had between them for that purpose, and of
course, if there was a fraudulent design, known to all the parties at the time, th very execution of the articles made them
all equally participators, and parties to the fraud. It necessarily involved combination, and participation, and pre-concert.
It was to this posture of facts that the reasoning of the charge
was addressed, and it met and stated the law truly, as applicable to them. Notice under such circumstances, necessarily
included participation in the fraud. It was- not possible that
the wife and her trustee, with notice of an intended fraud on

JANUARY TEAM 1833.
[Aragnmac and otheryv. Thompson.]

the part of her husband, could execute the instrument without
being, in the sense of the law, participes delicti.
But the charge does, in various other passages, distinctly
point out to the jury the very doctnne which the plaintiffs in
error assume as the basis of their argument, and for which
they contend. Thus, in commenting upon the different classes
of conveyances, to which the statute of 13 Elizabeth is applicable, it is observed, that all conveyances are valid and excepted, which are "for a valuable consideration, in good-faith,
without notice by the person receiving the conveyance of any
fraud, coVin or collusion )y the grantor to- defraud his creditors." Aga i "the consideration being valuable, if the contract, whether executed or executory, is made in good faith,
with one having no notice or knowledge of any fraud, covin or
collusion to defraud creditors, performance may be enforced or
voluntarily made, and the contract carried -into execution at
any time, either in the whole or in part, as is in the power of
the party." Again, "it is the opinion of the court, that the
evidence in this case bnngs the marriage contract within the
sixth section of the law (the act of 13 Elizabeth), excepting it
from the operation of the first section, unless you shall fiffd
that it was made, not bona fide, ox with notice or knowledge
of a fraud in John R. Thompson in entering into it, brought
home to his intended wife, and that Thompson actually entered
into it with such fraudulent, covinous and collusive intention."
And, without dwelling on other passages equally expressive, it
is added in the very close of the charge, "we conclude, then,
with instructing you, that a settlement made before marriage,
makes the intended wife a purchaser for a valuable consideration, if agreed to be made, she is a creditor, and protected in
the enjoyment of the thing settled, and entitled to the means
of enforcing what is executory, if the transaction was bona fide
and without notice or fraud." That these directions are correct in point of law, cannot admit of doubt, and that they
cover the whole ground asserted in the argument for the plaintiffs, seems equally undeniable. We may then dismiss any
further commentary on this part of the case.
The next objection is, to the charge of the court m regard to
the furiture. The court were requested to charge the .jury

SUPREME COURT.
[Magniae and others v. Thompson.]

fhat the expenditure of five thousand dollars in furnishing the
house was, per se, fraudulent. The court refused so to do,
stating, "that furniture is part of the marriage contract, to be
provided by Thompson, in a suitable manner, as he should
think fit. He had a discretion which he might exercise in a
reasonable manner, according to their station and associations
in life, proportioned to the kmd of house and extent of income;
the trustee or wife could not, in law or equity, compel Thompson to furnish it extravagantly, or at useless and wanton expense; and if he should do it voluntarily, it would not be within
the true spirit and meaning of the marriage articles, and might
be deemed a legal fraud on creditors as to the excess. But
before we can say that it is a fraud in law to expend five thousand dollars in furnishing a house costing thirteen thousand
dollars, and the establishment to be supported by the income
of an investment of forty thousand dollars in productive funds;
we must be satisfied that it is, at the first blush, an extravagant and unwarranted expenditure under all the circumstances
in evidence, and to an extent indicating some fraudulent or
other motive -unconnected with the fair execution of the contract,,of which we are not satisfied."
It is difficult to perceive any error in this direction, and it was
going quite as far in favour of the plaintiffs in error as the law
would warrant, for the change of circumstances of the defendantmade no difference in his obligations to perform the stipula.tions of the mariage articles. The court might well have
refused to give the instruction without any explanation, for it
was asking them to decide, as matter of law, what was clearly
matter of fact. The argumetat at the bar has indbed insisted
that the court misumderstood the object and request of the
counsel, but there is no evidence of that on the -record, and
certainly it is not to'be presumed.
The next objection is to the charge of the court respecting
the delivery of the notes to Captain Robert Stockton, in September 1629. The court were requested to charge the jury,
that the delivery of these notes to Captain Stockton was a fraud.
The court directed the jury that "if it was done in order to
comply, in part, with the agreement, itwas not so., If it was
colourable, made with the intention of covering and conceal-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Magmac and others v. Thompson.]

ing so much, under pretence of the marriage artisies, -for
Thompson's use, and so received by the trustee, it was legally
fraudulent as to creditors; but if delivered-with such intention,
and not so accepted, then Captain Stockton might not only
fairly apply it to the trust fund, but was bound so to do.
Though it may have been done on the eve of the judgment
confessed in New Jersey, that would make no difference; it
being to carry into effect the agreement of December 1825.'
We cannot perceive any error in this part of the charge. The
wife became a purchaser and creditor of her husband, in virtue
of the marriage articles, and if the delivery of the notes was
made in part performance of these articles, bona fide, and without fraud, it was a discharge of a moral as well as of a legal
duty Among creditors equally meritorious, a debtor may
conscientiously prefer one to another; and it can make no
difference that the preferred creditor is his wife.
The remaining objection is, that the marriage articles are
inoperative and void, not having been recorded within the time
prescribed by the laws of New Jersey for the registration of
conveyances. To this objection several answers may be given,
eaibh of which is equally conclusive against the plaintifs in
error. In the first place, mamage articles or settlements, as
such, are not required by the laws of New Jersey to be recorded
at all, but only conveyances of real estate; and as to conveyances of real estate, the omission to record them, avoids them
only as to purchasers and creditors, leaving them m full force
between the parties. This is the express provision of the statute
of New Jersey of 1820(a) so that, notwithstanding the nonregistration, the articles were good between the parties. Jn
the next place, as to the personal estate, covenanted on the
part of the defendant to be settled on his wife, whether furniture or money, it is clear that the non-registration of the articles could produce no effect whatever. If the conveyance was
free of fraud, it was as to-the personal estate completely valid,
even against creditors. In the next place, as to the real estate
covered by the articlee, whether these articles are treated as an
actual conveyance, or as an executory contract, it is clear, that
(a) Set the act of 1820.

Laws of New Jersdy, editiquiff.1821, p. 747.

•SUPREME COURT.
[Magntac and others v. Thompson.]

except as to the creditors of the grantor, Mr Stockton, they
were completely valid, and' operative. Viewed as a conveyance, or as a contract for a conveyance, the husband could not,
consistently with the avowed trusts, take any legal estate or
executed use in the real estate. The grantor necessarily remained the legal owner, in order to effectuate the trusts of the
settlement, and the husbapad could entitle himself to the benefit of the trusts provided' in his favour, only m the events and
upon the contingencies which are therein stated. He had no
equitable interest therein capable of a present appropriation by
his creditors. In every view of the circumstances, it is therefore clear, that the non-registration of the articles does not
touch the plamtifis' rights; and the court were correct m their
instruction to the jury, "that the marnage contract is not vold
for want of being recorded in time."
Upon the whole, it is the unanimous opinon of the court
that the judgment of the circuit court ought to be affirmed,
with costs.
Judgment accordingly.

