SUPREME COURT.

HYPPOLITUS JOSEPH. AUGUSTINE ESTHO ET AL. V. BENJAMIN
L. LEAR, ADMINISTRATOR OF THADDEUS KOSCIUSZKO.

A case not being properly prepared m the circuit court for.a hearing, the
decree was reversed,, and the cause remanded, with liberty to the plaintiff
to amend his bill.

AN appeal from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington.
The case was argued by Mr Swann and Mr Sampson, for
the appellants, and 'by Mr Wirt and Mr Dandridge, for the
appellees.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The appellants had filed their bill in the'court of the United
States for the county of Washington, alleging themselves to
be the distributees and next of km ofThaddeus Kosciuszko, deceased, who departed this life intestate, as they allege, with
respect to personal property in the United States. The bill
charges that Thaddeus Kosciuszko, being about to leave America, deposited with Mr Jefferson a paper writing purporting to
be a will which was executed in Virginia, and is in the followIng words
"I, Thadleus Kosciuszko, being just on my departure from
Amenca, do hereby declare and direct, that, should I make no
other testamentary disposition of my property in the United
States, I hereby authorize my fnend Thomas Jefferson, to
employ the whole thereof in purchasing negroes from among
his own, or any others, and giving them liberty in my name,
in giving them an education in trade or-otherwise, andin havIng them instructed for their new condition in the duties of

morality, which may make them good neighbours, good fathers
or mothers, husbands or -wives, in their duty as citizens, teaching them to be defenders of their liberty and' country, and of

JANUARY TERM 1833.
tEstho et al. v. Lear.]
the good order of society, and in whatsoever may make them.
happy and useful, and I make the said Thomas Jefferson
executor of tbis.
"T. Kosciuszo.
"5th May 17981'
After the testator's death, Mr Jefferson proved the will in
the county court of Albemarle, but renounced the executorship,
Letters of administration have since been granted on it in the
county of Washington in this district, to Benjamin L. Lear,
who is in possession of the fund which is referred to in the paper writing. The plaintiffs contend that this paper writing is
not a. will, or if a will, cannot have effect, the bequest contamed in it being one which the law will not sustain. They
therefore contend that, this will being void and inoperative,
they, as the next of kin, are entitled to this fund, there being
no creditors to claim.
The answer insists on the validity of the will, and that the
defendant is ready to carry the trust into execution.
Before the court can decide the intricate questions which
grow out of this.will, we thik it necessary to possess some information which the record does not give.
The domicil ofgeneral Kosdiuszko is not stated. He was a
native of Poland, and died in Switzerland. Whether he was
doniciliated in Switzerland or not does not appear. The law
of domicil, with respect to wills in cases of testacy, or regtlating distribution in cases of intestacy, may be material.
It also appears that the testator made a will in Europe.
From the manner in which the subject is mentioned, we presume that this makes no disposition of his property in the
United States, but, since we- are informed of its existence, it
would be desirable to see it.
We do not think the. case properly prepared for decision,
and therefore direct that the decree be reversed and' the cause
remanded, with liberty to the plaintiff to amend his bill.

