SUPREME COURT.

WILLIAM YEATON AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS V. DAVID LENOX
AND OTHERS.
Motion to disnuss an appeai. A decree was pronounced by the district
,ourt of the United States for the district of Alexandria, in December
1829, from which the defendants appealed, but did not bring up the
record. At January term 1832, the appellees, in pursuance of the rule
of court, brought up the record and filed it, and on motion of their counsel, the appeal was dismissed. On the 9th of March 1832, a citation was
signed by the clhefjustice of the court for the district of Columbia, citing
the plaintiffsin the original action to appear before the supreme court,
an en sesauw, and show cause why the decree of the circuit court should
not be corrected. A copy nf the record was returned with the citation,
"executed" and filed with the clerk. By the court. The record is
brought up irregularly, and the cause must be dismissed.
The act of March 1803, which gives the appeal from decrees in chancery,
subjects it to the rules and regulations which govern writs of error.
Under this act it has been always held that an appeal may be prayed in
court when the decree is pronounced. But if the appeal be prayed after
the court has risen, the party must proceed in the same manner as had
been previously directed in writs of error.
The judicial act directs that a writ of error must be allowed by a judge, and
that a citation h be returned with the record, the adverse party to have
at least twenty days notice. This notice, the court understands, is twenty
days before the return day of the writ.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
county of Alexandria, in the district of Columbia.
Mr Coxe, for the appellees, moved to dismiss this appeal, an
appeal in the same having been dismissed at January term 1832,
and this appeal not having been taken and filed according to
the provisions of the 3udicial act and the rules of this court.
Mr Neale, contra, vho cited the following cases: Reily v.
Lamar et al. 2 Cranch, 344, 1 Cond. Rep. 419; Wood v. Lide,
4 Cranch, 180, 2 Cond. Rep. 76, San Pedro v. Valverde, 2
Wheat. 132; Johnson v. Johnson's Administrators, 2 Mun. 304.
Mr Chief Justice
Court.

MARSHALL

delivered the opinion of the

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(Yeaton and others v. Lenox and others.]

In this case a decree was pronounced by the court of the
United States for the county of Alexandria in December 1829,
from which the defendants in that court appealed, but did not
bring up the record. At January term 1832, the appellees, in
pursuance of a rule of this court, brought in the record, filed it,
and moved that the suit should be dismissed. The court
ordered a dismission. On the 9th day of March 1832, a citation was signed by the chief justice of the court for the district
of Columbia, citing the plaintiffs in the original action to appear
before the supreme court, then in session, and show cause why
the decree of the circuit court should not be corrected.
A copy of the record was returned with this citation "executed," and filed4with the clerk. The appellees move to dismiss
the suit because the record has been irregularly brought up.
The act of March 1803, which gives the appeal from decrees in chancery, subjects it to the rules and regulations
which govern writs of error. Under this act'it has been always
held that a decree may be prayed in court when the decree is
pronounced, but if the appeal be prayed after the court has
risen, the party must proceed in the same manner as had been
previously directed in writs of error.
The judicial act directs that a writ of error must be allowed.
by a judge, and that a citation shall be returned with the
record, the adverse party having at least twenty days notice.
This notice, w6 understand, is twenty days before the return
day of the writ of'error.
In .this case the appeal 'is not allowed by the judge, and the
citation is to appear before the court th-an sitting. The record
is brought up irregularly, and the cause must be dismissed.

On consideration of the rule. granted in this cause, and of
the arguments of counsel, as well -for the appellants as for the
appellees, thereupon had, after mature deliberation, it is the
opinion of this court that the record is brought up irregularly,
and that this appeal should be dismissed: whereupon, it is
ordered and decreed by tis court, that the appeal be, and the
same is hereby dismissed with costs.

