SUPREME COURT.

JOSHUA SCHOLEFIELD AND JOHN TAYLOR, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. JESSE EICHELBERGER, SURVIVING PARTNPD t .TOHN
CLEDIM , DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
Action of assumpsit to recover the balance of an account current for merchandize purchased in England by order ofthe defendants. The defence
was, that the contract was made during the war, and therefore void. By
the court: the doctrine is not to be questioned at this day, that during a
state of hostility, the citizens of the hostile states are incapable of contracting with each other.
To say that this rule is without exception, would ]beassuming too great
latitude. The question has never yet been examined whethera contract
for necessaries, or even for money to enable the individual to get home,
could not be enforced; and analogies familiar to the law, as well as the
influence of the general rule, in international law, that the severities of
war are to be diminished by all safe and practical means, might be appealed to in support of such an exception. But at present, itmay be
safely affirmed that there is no recognized exception, but permission of
a state to itsown citizens; which is also implied in any treaty stipulation
to that effect, entered into with a belligerent.
There is no doubt that the liability of a deceased co-partner, as well as his
inte'est in the profits of a concern, may, by contract, be extended beyond
his death; but without such a stipulation, even in the case of a co-partnership for a term of years, it is clear that death dissolves the concern.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Maryand.
In the circuit court, an action of asurnpsit was brought by
the plaintiffs in error for the recovery of one thousand tuid one
poundt Ibur shillings and eight pence sterling, with interest,
asserted to be due to them by the defeitants in error, for inerchandize sold and dlivered. The declaration was in the
usual form.
OD the trial of the cause, the planitilts, to maintai the issue

on their part, olered ;n evidence two aicoujtit heade as follows " Dr. Messes Eichelberger and Clciam in account with
Scholefield, Redfern anwd. Co."
In these account,,, the first of which commences on the 20th
of July 1813, the defendants are charged on that day, and at
subsequent dates, with suns as -due for goods, postages, exp-nmses and interest, and are credited with several payments

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Scholefield v. Eichelberger.]

in 1814, 1815, 1816 and 1817 the balance stated to be due to
the plaintiffs on this account, on the 1st of January 1818, appears to be two thousand five hundred and seventy-rune pounds,
sixteen shillings. The second account commences January 1,
1818, and contains a credit of eight thousand dollars under
date of February 14, 1819; leaving the balance of one thousand and one pounds four shillings and eight pence due on the
1st day of July 1819, the sum for which the action was instituted.
The plaintiffs proved that these accounts were delivered to
the defendants for settlerient some time in 1819, and that no
objections were made to them, and the defendant acknowledged the balance of the accounts to be due, and promised
payment of the same.
It was also in evidence, that the plaintiffs were British subjects and merchants, and had been such s-nce the year 1807,
and bad always resided in England.
The defendant, to support the issue on his part, offered in
evidence the correspondence of the late firm of Eichelberger
and Clemm, and J. and W.- Eichelberger with the plaintiffs,
commencing on the 2d of February 1813, and terminating on
the 20th of May 1816. The letter of 2d February 1813, from
the defendants' late firm, received by the plaintiffs in error on
the 17th June 1813, after stating to the plaintiffs that every
thing indicated a determination on the part of the government
of the United States to continue the war then existing with
England, proceeds to say
".As such a conviction may reduce the prices of your manufactures considerably, we have prepared ain order (which is
hereto annexed) for some articles which are only to be pirchased
in the event of such a reduction. You will perceive that the
investment of our money in this way is an uncertain speculation, whatever may be the reduction of priccs, for we can form
no opinion as to the time,when they can be imported into this
country;, and you will therefore insure the goods, when bought,
against fires. So soon as we are favouied with the invoice,
we.will transmit a bill of exchange for the amoumt. This you
may calculate on with certainty
The subsequent letters of he 13th April 1813, and of the
18th June 1814, contain further orders for the purchase of

SUPREME COURT
[Scholefield v. Eichelberger.]

goods; and by that of the 18th June remittances were made,
and expectations of peace are expressed. "Should this desirable event take place," the defendants say, "we shall calculate on receiving the goods amongst the first that arrive, under
full insurance against sea risk."
By a letter of the 22d February 1815, the flim of Eichelberger and Clemm conunumicated the ratification of the treaty of
peace, express their expectations of uninterrupted correspondence with the plaintiffs; and they also say, "the pnncipal object of this'letter is, to confirm our former orders, and to assure
you that nimediate arrangements vill be made to remit largely
on account of them, with a full reliance that they have been
executed on the most favourable terms, andwith the largest
discount."
On the 20th of May 1816, they comnunicated to the plaintiffs .the.losses which they have sustained, and their expectations of greater losses by the goods which had been purchased
for them during the war not having been sent out in the
spring of 181.5, and they offer to Feturn to the agent of the
plaintiffs the packages of those goods which remain unsold.
They 'say, in that letter, "We are anxious to make you payment;" and they ask that-the plaintiffs may be satisfied with
the interest on the balance due to them, as the same may be
afterwards remitted on more -advantageous terms than at that
date, in consequence of the high rate of exchange.
The correspondence of the plaintiffs with Eichelberger and
Clemm, from the 9th of Augut 1813 to the 13th of August
1816, was also given in evidence to show the periods in which
the transactions between the parties were carried on.
The invoices of the merchandizes shipped by the plaintiffs.
to the defendant,' late firm, were headed in the- following
terns
"Biminghant, ,ugust 20, 1814.
"Invoce of sundry merchandizes bought of Scholefield,
Redfem and Co. ort account and risk of Messrs Eichelberger
and Clemm, of Baltimore, marked and nunbered as follows,
and consigned to care of Messrs Hughes and Duncan, LiverpooW"
"Bimnmghani, Jllarch 10, 1815.
"Invoice of suidrv inerchandize botight bv Scholefield,

JANUARY TERM 1833
tScholefield v. Eichelberger.]

Redfern and Co. on account and risk of Messrs Eichelberger
and Clemm, of Baltimore, citizens of the United States of America, marked and numbered as follows, and consigned- to the
care of Messrs Hughes and Duncan, Liverpool."
The defendarlts also gave in evidence the deposition of William Eichelberger, which stated, "That sometime in the sprng
or summer of the year 1815, the exact period deponent does
not recollecty he, this deponent, associated in the hardware
business with his brdther Jesse Eichelberger, who had previously conducted- the same business in company with his
brother-in-law, the late Mr John Clemm That sometime in
the autumn of the said year 1815, goods and merchandize
arrived in the pprt of' Baltimore from England, which goods
and'merchandize, this deponent entered at the custom house
for Jesse and William Eichelberger the said Jesse at the
time of the arrival of the said goods being absent from the
city on an excursion to the country That the said goods and
merchandize were the first that had been received since the
death of Mr Clemm, and that the said goods and merchandize
were entered in the books of Jesse and William Eichelberger,
as their own goods, and were not at any time afterwards considered or disposed of as the goods of Eichelberger and Clemm.
This deponent further saith, that all the goods and merchandize which were received subsequently to the death of Mr
Clemm, were disposed of as if all the orders in relation to them
had been given by Jesse and William Eichelberger, and that
no part or portion of the proceeds of said goods and merchandize ever went to the credit of Eichelberger and Clemm, or to
the individual estate of Mr Clemm."
The plaintiffs also gave in- evidence, by John S. Skinner,
that packets sailed; as carrels, between America and England
frequently during the war That cartels for a time sailed
from Annapolis to Falmouth, in England-and that witness
was appointed by the president of the United States to superintend the said cartels, and did superintend them from December 1812, until they ceased to run from Annapolis, which
happened in about a year after the time abovementioned.
A multitude of letters on commercial subjects were sent by
the said cartels-that all letters sent by them were examined

SUPREME COURT.
(Scholefield v. Eichelberger.]

by the witness, that lie never detained any letters on commercial subjects merely, but all letters of that description were
suffered to go without interruption-that the practice of witness, as above stated, was known to the secretary of state, and
approved by him.
Upon which evidence the defendant, by his counsel, prayed
the court to instruct the jury, that upon the whole evidence,
the contract upon which this action is founded, is utterly void,
upon principles of public policy, and that the plaintiffs were
not entitled to recover. Which instruction the court accordingly gave.
The plaintiffs excepted to the charge of the court, and prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Donaldson and Mr Taney, for
the plaintiffs in error, for the defendant, a printed argument
was submitted to the court by Mr R. Johnson and Mr R. B.
Magruder.
For the plaintiffs in error it was contended, that the contract,
as set.forth in the bill of exceptions, was a valid contract, on
which the plaintiffs were entitled to recover, and that the
court below erred in instructing the jury on the prayer of the
defendant, that said contract was utterly void upon principles
of public policy.
It was argued that the facts of the case do not bring the
contract within the principle upon which the court charged the
jury, against the plaintiffs; and which is insisted upon by the
counsel for the defendants in error.
2. The intercourse between the parties was under the view
and permission of the government of the United States, was
not contrary to public policy, nor was it such as was inconsistent with the actual hostilities then existing between the two
nations.
The rule that there shall be no trading with the enemy, is
admitted, but this rule is applicable only to contracts made, and
to be executed and completed during a war. While quch
contracts are acknowledged to be forbidden and to be void, a
contract like that upon which this suit was founded partakes
of no features which can bring it into censure. There was no

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Scholefield v. Eicielbergeroj

intention to bring the goods into the United States until
peace should be re-established: -the goods were ordered to be
purchased with this view and with.no other, and they were to
remain in England waiting that event. The expected demand
for the goods on the return of peace furnished the only inducement to their purchase.
The evidence in the case shows that the first invoice, comprehending a part of the goods purchased, was paid for. The
second invoice, dated March 10th, 1815, was after the war
was ended, and was legal
If the contract m the first invoice was illegal, it was closed
and paid for. The debt due upon the second invoice was
acknowledged after the war; and payment of it was promised.
If there was any intention to trade with the enemy, it was
not carried into effect, an intention to trade with the enemy,
and at the time when the trading is actually carried on, peace
exists, no offence is committed. The Saunders, 2 Gallison,
210, 214. The principles of that case fully apply to the case
before the court. The trading which was condemned by the
court of New York in the case of Griswold v. Waddington, 16
Johns. 438, was a trading during the war. Intercourse inconsistent with actual hostility is the offence against which the
operation of the rule is directed, 8 Cranch, 163.
The evidence in this case shows that commercial letters
were allowed by the government to be transmitted to England.
That commercial letters were transmitted under the inspection
of the government agent, and this was known to, and approved
by the president. This practice was known to exist by the
secretary of state, and was approved. This was equivalent
to a license. If certain acts are permitted, their incidents are
legalized. 8 East, 273, 290, 5 Taunton, 679, Eng. Coin.
Law Reports, 231. A citizen of the United States may during
I Paine, 166.
war draw bills on the subjects of an enemy
For the defendant in error it was argued, that the judgment
of the circuit court should be affirmed on the following grounds.
1. Therontract upon which the suif is brought, having been
made at a tune -when Great Britain and the United States of
America were at open war with each other, and the plaintiffs
dad defendants in this cause being then respectively citizens of

SUPREME COURT
[Scholefield v. Eichelberger.]

Iie two belligerent nations, is utterly void on principles of public policy, acknowledged by all the civilized communities of
the world. It would be a waste of time to multiply authorities
for so clear a proposition. The whole subject is fully discussed
in the case of Griswold v. Waddington, reported in 16 Johns.
Rep. 438, and the authorities there cited by the chancellor;
who, in page 472, reviews the American decisions.
2. If the orders for goods given by Eichelberger and Clemm,
during the war, never afforded a ground of action for the plaintiffs against them, then it is conceived that the present suit
cannot possibly be sustained. It is, in form, a suit against
Jesse Eichelberger as surviving partner of John Clemnn, and
cannot be supported by any evidence of a subsequent reception
of the goods, and a promise to pay by Eichelberger after the
dissolution of the partnership by the death of Mr Clemm. The
goods having been received by J. and W Eichelberger, and a
promise made to pay for them, it may possibly be true that J.
and W Eichelberger were responsible for them, but the suit
should have been brought against them, and not in its present
form, which supposes an ultimate liability of the representatives of Mr Clemm, who was never himself liable, and whose
estate never was in point of fact benefited by the goods furnished by the plaintiffs. The attention of the court is particularly
called to the form of the present action, which it is confidently
conceived cannot be sustained, unless the contract, in its inception, was valid and obligatory upon Eichelberger and
Clemin. There can be no relation back, from the subsequent
reception of the goods, to make the estate of Clemm in any
event liable. Any right of action, if existing at all, could only
have sprung up from the subsequent receipt and appropnation
of the goods, and this was by the new firm of J. and W Eichelberger, and lcng after the dissolution of the partnership of
Eichelberger and Cleim.
Mr Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the Court.

The action here is assumpsit to recover the balance of an
account current against Eichelberger, survivor of Eichelberger
and Clemm, the latter having died during the war. The defence is, that the contract was rnade during war, and therefore
void.

JANUARY TERM 1833
[Scholefield v. Eichelberger.j

The doctrine is not at this day to be questioned, that during
a state of hostility, the citizens of the hostile states.are incapable of contracting with each other. For near twenty years this
has been acknowledged as the settled doctrine of this court,
and in a case which proves it to be a rule of very general and
rigid application (The Rapid). Even the exception commonly quoted of ransom bonds, has been shown, I. think, in the
case of Potts v. Bell, to be no exception, since it grows out of
a state of war; is, ex vi termini, a contract between belligerents;
and from its nature carries with it the evidence of the fidelity of
the parties to their respective governments. To say that the
rule is without exception, would be assunung too great a latitude. The question has never yet been examined, whether a
contract for necessaries, or even for money to enable the individual to get home, would not be enforced, and analogies familiar to the law as well as the influence of the general rule in
international law, that the severities of war are to be diminished by all safe and practical means, might be appealed to in support of such an exception. But at present, it may le safely
affirmed that there is no recogmzed exception but permission
of a state to its own citizen, which is also implied in any treaty
stipulation to that effect entered into by the belligerents.
Nor do the learned gentlemen who argued this cause controvert the general rule; they only attempt to except this case
from its application. First, byan imputed permission on behalf of
the United States., Second, by shifting the creation of the contract from the. date, which appears on its face, to the time of
delivery of the goods, which, in point of time, were not shipped
.until after the peact.
On the first of these grounds of exception there is a very
strong case on record, to show that such a relaxation of the
laws of war is not to be inferred from ordinary circumstances,
if indeed it may be inferred at all, it is the case of the Count de
Wohrenzoff, decided by the lords of appeal, in the year 1781.
It was the case of an importation of French wines from Bourdeaux into Ireland, during the war of our revolution, and the
evidence to.justify it was, that the trade in wines between Dublin and Bourdeaux had been going on from the commencement
of the war, openly and without interruption from the officers of
the customs, nay, that an additional duty had been imposed
VoT,. VII.--3 Z

SUPREME COURT
LScholefield v. Eichelberger.]

upon their importation since the commencement of the war.
Yet they were condemned, and their condemnation affirmed.
These circuiistances are infinitely stronger than those relied
on in this case, since the permit to carry on commerial correspondence during the war, cannot reasonably imply more than
to sanction an innocent correspondence; a correspondence leading only to legal results, not having for its objects any unpermitted acts. or acts inconsistent with the relation of members
of hostile states.
It will be perceived here that the court does not deny the
power of belligerent states, so to modify the relations of a state
of war as to permit commercial intercourse or other intercourse
according to their will. They who give the law may modify
it, and except from its operation whatever ground they choose
to declare neutral. The language of jurists is uniform on this
subject, and reason, policy and humanity, sustain the exercise
of such a power.
The second ground of exception relied on by the plaintiffs,
suggests several considerations.
It is insisted, that the goods having been shipped subsequent
to the war, and coming to possession of the survivor of Eichelberger and Clemm, constituted a sufficient ground of contract,
without reference to the time of purchase, the delivery raising
the contract for payment, and the receipt by the survivor being
the receipt of the fin to which it was shipped.
1. Had the articles of copartnership, or the terms of it, if
entered into without written artiles, appeared upon the bill of
exceptions, the court would have been called upon to consider
this exception, with reference to the terms of those articles.
There is no doubt that the liability of a deceased copartner, as
well as his interest in the profit of a concern, may by contract
be extended beyond his death, but.without such stipulation,
even in case of a copartnership for a term of years, 3 Madd.
245 it is clear that death dissolves the concern. In the absence of proof to the contrary,, we can only take this as the
case of a general association, without articles extending it beyond the life of Clemm, and then the shipment having been
made after his death, and no part of the proceeds having ever
come to his use, the case furnishes no ground for charging his
estate.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Scholefield v. Vchelberger.]

2. But this is not the true ground on which to place this
question. The consideration fatal to the claim of the plaintiffs, that the letter on which these advances were made, was
in itself a nullity, and could not be made the basis of a contract, on which this court would entertain a suit, the purchases
made under it could add nothing to its validity, nor were these
goods ever the property of these plaintiffs, for they were purchased for these defendants, and finally shipped to them as
their goods, not those of the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs advanced
the money; with .them the contract was for money paid and
expended, but in the purchase and sale of the goods they were
but the agents, carrying into effect a contract between the
seller and these defendants. Hence the insurance against fire,
No. 1, for the, loss would have been that of defendants, not of
plaintiffs.
These considerations leave no doubt upon the mind of this
court, that the decision of the court below was correct.
The judgment is affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. on consideration
whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

