SUPREME COURT

THE UNITED STATRS V. ABEL TURNER.
Indictment in. the circuit court ot North Carolina for the forgery of, and an
-attempt to pass, &c. a certain paper writing in imitation of, and purporting to be a bill or note issued by the president, directors and company of
the Bank of the United States, founded on ,the eighteenth section of the
act of 1816, establishing the Bank of the United States. The note was
signed -with the name of John Huske, who had not been at any time president of the Bank of the United States, but who, at the time of the date
of the counterfeit, was the'president of the office of discount at Fayetteville; and was countersigned by the name of JohnW Sandford, who at
no time was cashier of the mother bank, but was at the said date cashier
of the said office of discount and deposit. Held, that this wasan offence
within the provisions of the law.
It is clear that the policy of the act extends tp the case. The object
is to guard the public from false and counterfeit paper, purporting
on its face to be issued by the bank. It could not be presumed that
persons in general could he cognizant of the fact who, at particular penods, wer the president and cashier of the bank. They were officers
liable to I e removed at the pleasure of the directors, and the times of
their appointment or removal, or even their names, could not ordinarily
be within, the knowledge of the body of the citizens. The public mischief would be equally great, whether the names wcre those of the
genuine officers, or of fictitious or unauthorized persons, and ordinary
diligence would not protect them against imposition.

ON a certificate of division from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of North Carolina.
The defendant, Abel Turner, was indicted at May term
1832, in the circuit court, under the eighteenth section of the
-act, incorporating the Bank of the United States, passed in
April 181*6.
The indictment contained fou. counts.

The first count charged the defendant with having forged
and counterfeited a bill or note nsued by the orders of the
president, directors- -nd company of the Bank of the United
States, the teAor of which said false, forged and counterfeited
paper writing is as follows, to -wit, "the president, directors
and company of the Bank of the United States promise to pay
twentv dollars. on. demand,'at their office of discount and de.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Turner.]

Posit, in Fayetteville, to the order of D. Anderson, cashier
thereof, Philadelphia, the 4th of July 1827, John W Sandford, cashier, John Huske, president," with intent to defraud the
president, directors and company.of the Bank of - United
States, against the form of the act of congress, &c.
The second count charged the defendant with an attempt to
pass the said note, describing itin the same form, knowing it to
be forged, with intent to defraud the Bank of the United States.
The third count charged the offence of passing, uttenng and
publishing the same note, with intent to defraud the bank.
The fourth and fifth counts charged the defendant with an
attempt to pass, and with having passed the note to one Elliott,
with intent to defraud hun. The note was described in these
counts in the same form and terms -as in the first count.
The jury found the defendant guilty on the fourth and fifth
counts, and not guilty as to the residue.
Upon the trial of the cause it occurred as a question, whether
the attempt to pass the counterfeit bill, in the indictment mentioiiel, knowing the same to be counterfeit, the said bill being
signed with the name of John Huske, who had not, at any
time, been president of the Bank of the United States, but at
the time of the date of the said counterfeit bill was the president of the office of discount and deposit of the Bank of the
United States at - Fayetteville, and countersigned with the
name of John W Sandford, who at no time was cashier of the
Banc of the Umted States, but was, at the date aforesaid; cashier of the said office of discount- and deposit, was an offence
within the provisions of the act entitled an act to incorporate
the subscribers to the Bank of the United States: upon which
question, the judges, being divided in opinion, ordered that the
same should be certified to the supreme court of the United
States for the opinion of that court.
The case was argued by the attorney-general, for the United States, no counsel appeared for the defendant.
The attorney-genetal stated that the note described in the
indiclirent, wws in a]l respects the same as a note of the 11other bank, excepting the signatures or the president and cash-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Turner.]

ier of the bank. Instead of those signatures,.the names of the
president and cashier of the branch bank at Fayetteville were
affixed to the note. The question is, whether this bill came
within the description in the eighteenth section of the act incorporating the bank, which punishes the offence charged as
counterfeiting a bill or note issued by order of the bank. The
question turns upon the interpretation of the word "purport"
in the section. If the paper purports to be a bill or note of the
bank it is enough, although it may not be signed by the proper
officers of the bank.
The cases which have been decided in England fully maintain this position. They are found in 2 Russell on Crimes,
338, 340, 342, 344, 345, 346, 363, 365, 366, 456, 470, 471,
and in 10 Petersdorf's Abridg. 55, 56.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause comes before the court upon a certificate of division of opinion of the judges of the circuit court for the distnct
of North Carolina. The defendant, Abel Turner, was indicted for the forgery of, and an attempt to pass, &c. a certain
paper writing in imitation of, and purporting to be a bill or
note issued- by the president, directors and company of the
Bank of the United States. The indictment contained several
counts, all founded upon the eighteenth section of- the act-of
the 10th of April 1816, ch. 44, establishing the Bank of the
United States. Upon the trial of the cause it. occurred as ,a
question, whether the /attempt to pass the counterfeit bill in
the indictment mentioned, knowing the same -o be counterfeit,
the said bill being signed with the name of John Huske, who
had'not at any tune been president of the Bank of the United
States, but at the time of the date of the said counterfeit bill
was the president of the office of discount and deposit of the
Bank of the United States at Fayetteville, and countersigned
by the name of John W Sandford, who at no time was cashier
of the Bank of the United States, but was, at the date aforesaid, cashier of the said office of discount and deposit, was an
offence within the provisions of the act. Upon this guestion
the court, being aivided in opinion, ordered the same to be certified to lhis cotirt.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Turner.]

The bill or note itself is not set forth in haec verba, except
in the count on which the question arose, and which charges
that the defendant, with force and arms. &c. "felomously did
attempt to pass to one S. E. as and for a true and good bill or
note, a certain false, forged and counterfeit paper writing, the
tenor of which, &c. is as follows, ' the president, directors and
company of the Bank of the Umted States promise to .p y
twenty dollars on demand, at their office of discount and deposit in Fayetteville, to the order of D. Anderson, cashier thereof,
Philadelphia, the 4th of July 1827, John W Sandford, cashier,
John Huske, president,' with intent to defraud the president,
directors and company of the Bank of the United States." The
bill therefore purports on its face to be signed by persons who
are respectively president and cashier of the bank.
One of the fundamental articles of the charter (sect. 11,
art. 12) declares that the bills and notes which may be issued
by order of the corporation, signed by the president and countersigned by the cashier, promising the payment of money to
any person or persons, is, her or their order, or to bearer, shall
be binding and obligatory on the same. So that -the present
counterfeit bill purports to be signed by officers, who were
the proper officers to sign the genuine bills of the bank.
The persons named in the counterfeit bill not being in fact
the president and cashier, although so called, the question
arises, whether the party is liable t6 indictment for an attempt
to pass it, under the eighteenth section of the act of 1816.
We are of opinion, that he is, within the words- and true
intent and meaning of the-act. The words of the act are, "ifany person shall falsely make, &c., or cause or procure to be
falsely made, &c., or willingly aid or assist in falsely making,
&c., any bill or note in imitation of, or purporting to be a bill
or note issued by order of the president, directors And company
6f the said bank, &c. 4c., or shall pass, utter or publish, or
attempt to pass, utter or publish as true any false, &c. bill or
note, purporting to be a bill er note issued by the order of the
president, directors and company of the said bank, &c., knowing the same to be falsely forged or counterfeited, &c., every
such person, &c. &c." The case, therefore, falls directly
within the terms of the act. It is an attempt to pass a false

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Turner.]

bill or note as true, purporting to, be a bill or note issued by
the order of the president, directors and company; for the
word 5'purport" imports what appears on the face of the instrument. Jones's Case, Douglas, 802, 2 RussE1 on Crimes,
b. 4, ch. 32, sec. 1, p. 345, 346, 2d edition, Id. 363 to 367.
The preceding clause of the section very clearly shows tis to
be the sense of the word in this connexion; It is there said,
if any person shall falsely make, &c. any bill "in unitation of
or purportingto be a bill," &c. where the words "in imitation
of" properly refer to counterfeiting a genuine bill, made by the
proper, authorized officers of the bank; and the words "or purporting to be," properly refer to a counterfeit bill, which on its
face appears to be signed by the proper officers. In the view
of the act then, it is wholly imrnatenal whether the bill attempted tcr be passed br .Agnedln the name of real or fictitious
persons, or whether it would, if genuine, be binding on the
bank or not.
And it is equally clear, that the policy of the act extends to
the case. The object is to guard the public from false and
counterfeit paper, purporting on its face to be issued by the
bank. It could not be presumed that persons in general would
be cognizant of the fact, who at particular periods were the
president and cashier of the bank. They were officers liable
to be removed at the pleasure of the directors; and the times
of their appointment or removal, or even their names, could
not ordinarily be within the knowledge of the body of the citizens. The public mischief would be equally great, whether
the names were those of the genuine officers, or of fictitious or
unauthorized persons; and ordinary diligence could not protect
them against imposition. 2 East's P C. ch. 19, see. 44i p. 950;
2 Russell on Cimes, b. 4, ch. 32. see. 1, p. 341, 2d edition.
Upon exarnning the English authorities upon the subject of
forgery and the utterance of counterfeit paper, they appear to
us fully to justify and support a similar doctrine. It is, for
instance, clearly settled.that the making of a false instrument,
which is the sub1ect, of forgery, with a fraudulent intent,
although in the name of a, non-existing person, is as much a
forgery as if it had been made in the name of a person known
to exist. and to whom ciedit was. due. 2 Russell on Crimes,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Turner.]

b. 4, oh. 32, sec. 1, 2d edition, p. 327 to 333, and the caseE
there cited, Id. 470,474, 2 East, P Cr. ch. 19, see. 38, p. 940.
Nor is it material whether a forged instrument-be made re.such
a manner, as that if in truth it were such as it is counterfeited
for, it would be of validity or not. This was decided as long
ago as Deakins's case, 1 Siderf. Rep. 142, 1 Hawk. P1. Cr. oh.
70, see. 7, 2 East, P C. ch. 19, sec. 43, p. 948. Nor is it any
answer to the charge of forgery, that the -instrument is not
available, by reason of some collateral objection not appearing
upon the face of it. 2 Russell on Crimes, b. 4, ch. 32, sec. 1,
2d edition, p. 397"to 341, Id. 470 to 474.
So that upon the words and policy of the act itself, as well
as upon the footing of authority, we are of opinion, that the
offence stated in the division of opinion is within the act of
1816. And we shall accordingly certify this -to the circuit
court.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of North Carolina, and on the question and point on which the
judges of the said circuit court were opposed in opinion, and
which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to
the act of congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this court, that the attempt to pass the counterfeit bill in the
indictment in the proceedings mentioned urier the circumstances in the said certificate of division of opinion mentioned,
is an offence within the provisions of the act of congress stated
in the same certificate: whereupon, it is adjudged and ordered
by the court, that it be certified to the said circuit cnlurt for the
district of North Carolina, that the attempt to pass the counterfeit *bill in the indictment in the proceedings mentioned
under the circumstances in the said certificate of division of
opinion mentioned, is an offence within the provisions of the act
of congress stated in the same certificate.

VOL. VII.-S

