JANUARY TERM 1833.

WILLIAM

S.

NICHOLS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V.
FEARSON ET AL.

SAMUEL J.

A promissory note, payable at.a future day, gtwn for a bopa fide business
transaction, and which note was not made for the purpose of raising
money in the market, was sold by the drawee and indorser for a sum so
much less on its face, as exhibited a discount beyond the legal rate.of
interest, no stipulation having been made against the liability of the indorser; is not per se an usurious contract between the indorser and indorsee, and an action can be maintained upon the note aganst the indorser
who sold the same, by the purchaser.
The courts of New York have adjudicated, that whenever the note or bill
in its inception was a real transaction, so that the payee or promissee
might at maturity maintain a suit upon it, a transfer by mdorsement,
though beyond the legal rate of interest, shall be regarded asa sale of the
note or bill, and a valid and legal transaction. But not so where the
paper, in its origin, was only a nominal negotiation.
There are two cardinal rules in the doctrine of usury which we think must
be regarded as the common place to wich all reasoning and adjudication
unon the subject should be referred. the first is, that to constitute usury,
there must be a loan in contemplation by --he parties, .and the second,
that a contract which in its inception is unaffected by usury, can neverz
be invalidated by any subsequent usurious transaction.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the district of Columbia, in the county of Washington.
The plaintiff in error mstituted a suit on a promissory note
dated at Georgetown, October 22d, 1821, for the sum of one
hundred and one dolars, payable to the order of S. and J.
Fearson, the defendants, and oy them indorsed. The evidence
m the case showed, that on the 96th of October 1821 the defendants came intothe store of the plaintiff with the note, and
told the plaintiff'they had obtained the -note from the drawer
for goods they had sold him at their store, and asked the plamtiff what he would give for it. the plaintiff said he would give

ninety-seven d6llars for it) which the defendants agreed to
take; and thereupon the plamtiffrec6ived the note, which was
indorsed by the defendants before it was brought to the store,

and ninety-seven dollars were paid to the defendants for it.

SUPREME COURT.
[Nichofs v. Pearson et al]

When the i ote became due, and being unpaid by the drawer,
the defendants promised to pay it.
Upon this evidence the counsel for the defendants prayedthe court to instruct the jury"That if they believe from the said evidence that the plaintiff received the note upon which this suit is brought of defendants, with their indorsement upon it, and without an understanding that the defendants were ndt to be responsible on said
indorsement, and that the plaintiff paid or agreed to pay
therefor only the sum of ninety-seven dollars, the transaction
is usurious, and the plaintiff isnot'entitled to recover; which
the court gave as prayed. To which the plaintiff, by his counsel, excepted, and then prayed the court to instruct the jury.:
"If they should believe, from the evidence aforesaid, that
the defendants, having the note in question, and wishing to
part With it in order to avoid suing the drawer, and, not having
occasion or desire for a loan of money, offered to sell it to the
plaintiff, and that the plaintiff having some accounts with the
drawer, against which he expected to be able to' set off the

said note, and not with any other design, agreed to buy it, and
did buy it, for ninety-seven dollars; and that noloan for usunous interest, norany loan, nor anyevasion of the laws against
usury was in the contemplation of -either.of the said parties,
then plaintiff is entitled to recover;" which the court refused.
The plaintiffs counsel prayed the court to instruct the jury*
"If they believe, from the evidence aforesaid, that this note
was sold, and not received by plaintiff, by way of discount or
loan, plaintiff is entitled to recover;" wnch also was refused.
The plaintiff excepted to the instructions of ihe court given
to the jury on the prayers of the defendants, and also to the
refusal of the court to give the instruction asked by them.
The jury having found for the defendants, this writ of error
was prosecuted to reverse the judgment of the court on the
same.
The case was argued by Mr Key for the plaintiff in error;
and by Mr*Coxe for the defendants.
Mr Key, for the plaintiff in error, contended, that the ques

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Nichols v. Fearson et al]

tion of usury was one depending entirely on the transaction
out of which it Was said to arise. If a loan was the object of
the dealing between tihe parties, it might be usury; but if it
was only the sale of a note already made, it was not so.
Why should not a person who has claims upon hun purchas.
a note to set it off against such demands2 Why should not
the holder of a note sell it for what he may consider it worth:
The reason that such a sale of a note is said to be usurious is,
that the mdorser who disposes of it is liable; and yet the sale of
a bill of exchange, the payment of 'which is guarantied by the
seller, is valid. Cited, Scot v. Lloyd, 4 Peters, 205 ; 1 Starkie,
385; 2 Barn. & Ald. 588, 2 Mumford, 36, 8 Cowen, 369; 3
Bos: & Pul. 154, 1 Call, 66, 70.; 1 Dall. 217, 2 Strange, 1243.
Mr Coxe, for the defendants in error, argued, that the sale
of the note by the defendants, they being mdorsers upon it,
was a borrowing of money on usury. While it is admitted
that promissory notes may be sold for less sums than their
nominal amount, and with larger deductions than the regular
discount; yet in no such cases avv the seller continue liable
for the repayment of the money by indorsing the note. The
indorsement of the note made it a direct contract between the
plaintiff and the defendant for the loan of-money, on a usurious
consideration. There was nothing therefore to leave to the
jury; the fact was admitted, and the law was properly applied
to it by the court. Cited, 13 Johns. 52; 15 Johns. 44, 2 Johns.
Cases, 60; 15 Mass. 96, 2 Connecticut Reports, 175.
Mr Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was an action by the indorsee against the mdorser of a
promissory note, m which the plaintiff here was plaintiff in the
court below. It comes up upon exceptions taken to certain
'instructions gmven at the instance of the defendant, and to the
refusal of other instructions prayed for by the plbintiff.
On the motion of the defendants, the court instructed the
jury, "that if they believed, from the evidence, that the plaintiff received the note in question from the defendants, with
their indorsement upon it, and without any understanding that
the defb 1.dants were not to be responsible upon their indorseVOL. VII.-O

SUPREME COURT.
[Nichols v. Fearson et al]

ment" at a discount beyond the legal rate of interest, then the
transaction was usurious, and he could not recover.
The plaintiff then moved the court to instruct the jury to
ths effect: "that if they believed the evidence made-out a
case in which there was no loan contemplated, nor any evasion
of the laws against usury, but siunly a sale of the note in
question, then the transaction was not usurious, and the plaintiff was entitled to recover ;" which instruction the court refused.
The case makes out the note to have been a bona fide business transaction, not suspected of usury in its origin, or made
up for the purpose of raising money in the market, and the
decision of the court below of course affirms this proposition,
"that in the sale of such a note, for a sum so much less than
that on its face, as will exhibit a discount beyond the legal
rate of interest, the guarantee or indorsement of the note, without a stipulation against the mdorser's liability, makes out a
case of usury, that it is, per se, an usurious contract between
the mdorsee and indorser; and no action can be maintained
upon it against the indorser.. And since the rule is uiversal,
that there can be no usury where there is'no loan, it followS,
that their decision implies the affirmance of the proposition that
such a Auarantee or indorsement necessarily implies a loan.
It is necessary to bear in mind that we are not now called
upon to consider a case occurring upon the transfer of a note
which is, in its origin, a mere nominal contract, one on which,
as the test is very properly established in the New York courts,
no course of action arose between the original parties. 15 John.
44, 55. The present is a case of greater difficulty, for the
principle affirmed in the decision under review, operates indirectly upon a contract not affected by usury, since by leaving
the possession of the note in the mdorsee who has no cause of
action, and the cause of action, if anywhere, in the indorser,
who has parted with the possession of the note4 it virtually
discharges the promissor from liability, although his contract,
in its inception, may have been wholly unimpeachable. Yet
the rule of law is every where acknowledged, that a contract,
-free from usury in its inception, shall not be invalidated by
any subsequent usurious transactions upon it.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
rnjichols v. Fearson et a .]
l

It will nardly be contended that, although the indorsemenb
gave no cause of action against the mdorser, yet it did operate
to give a right of action against the maker of the note. The
statute declares an usurious contract to be invalid to all intents
and purposes whatever., a valid indorsement is a contract as
well of transfer as of provisional liability; and if invalid to tne
one purpose, it must be equally so to the other.
The courts of New York have got over these difficulties by
adjudicating, that whenever the note or bill, in its inception,
was a real transaction, so that the payee or promissor might at
maturity maintain a suit apon it, a transfer by indorsement on
a discount, though beyond the legal rate of interest, shall be
regarded as a sale of the note or bill, and a valid and legal
transaction. But not so where the paper, in its origin, was
only a nominal negotiation. Such is the result of the . decisions in Jones v. Haik, 2 Johns. Cases, 60, Wilkie v. Roosevelt, 3 John. Cases, 66, and Munn v. The Commission
Company, 15 John. Rep. 44.
It has been argued that the Massachusetts courts maintain
the contrary doctrine. But the cases cited will not be found
sufficient to bear out the argument. The case of Churchill
v. Suter, 4 Mass. 156, was the case of a nominal contract, a
note made to be sold in the market, as is admitted in the case
stated, the point of usury was not argued, and the opinion
expressed by the learned judge, was, at best, but an obiter dictum. However, let that opinion be confined to the res subjecta, and there can be no reason for controverting it in this
case. It was the case of ahommal sale, a loan with the disguise of a sale thrown over it.
The case of Bridge et al. v. Hubbard, 15 Mass. 96, was one
of a different character, and decided in conformity with another
class of cases. It was the case of the substitution of a new
contract for a note given for usurious interest due upon previous transactions. The note passed into the hands of innocent
indorsees, and the question was, whether it was affected with
the taint of the original usury, or only with the want of consideration. And the majority of the court held it to be a
security for aloan of money obtained upon usmuy, and therefore

SUPREME COURT.
[Nichols v. Fearson et al.]

void in the hands of the present holders. This, of course, is
not an adjudication in point.
The-case of Lloyd v Keach, Connecticut Rep. 175, cited
from the adjudioa.tons of Connecticut, is in point but-it is an
authority against the decision under review The note was
given in the course of business; and in a suit brought upon it
by the indorsee against the drawer, the inferior court decided
that the sale of such a note by th:imdorser on a discount exceeding the legal rate of interest, was rendered usurious by his
indorsement and guarant6e, and that the plea of usury was a
good bar to a suit instituted against the drawer. But, on an
appeal to the supreme court of errors, although there was a
considerable diversity of opinion among the judges, a new trial
was granted upon the ground that such a transaction was not,
per se, usurious; but that its validity must depend upon the
bona fides of the transaction, as being a pure unaffected sale
or merely a colour for a loan.
Upon a-subject of such general mercantile interest, we must
dispose of the question according to our own best judgment of
the law And it becomes necessary first to review some of
our own decisions which have a bearng upon it.
The first was the case of Levy v. Gadsby, which was an
action by indorsee against indorser, upon a note whith would
seem to have originated in a real transaction, and the defence
was usury. But the distinction between that case and the
present is, that the defence was not set up in that case upon
any interest or discount taken for the transfer of the note, but
upon an usurious negotiation for a loan or forbearance with
reference to a pre-existing debt, in consideration of which,
Gadsby's note was indorsed to the plaintiff; and thus came
within the description of "an assurance for forbearance," which
is made void by the statute, as well as the contract secured
(3 Cr. 180, 1 Condensed Reports, 486); and the usury there
was proved not inferred from the guarantee by indorsement.
The case of Gaither v. The Farmers and Mechamcs Bank,
I Peters, 37, was one precisely of the same character with that
of Levy v. Gadsby, except that the suit was instituted by the
indorvee against the drawer,, the cause was decided upon the

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Nichols v. Fearson et al.]

invalidity of the mdorsement to transfer the right of action to
that mdorsee, not to any other holder, the plaintiff being the
party to the usury. An usurious loan had been negotiated,
and Gaither's note to Corcoran, the borrower on usury, indorsed
m blank by Corcoran, and left with the plaintiff to collect, in
payment of the money borrowed. It was therefore a clear
case of an assurance given for money borrowed on usury; and
in no way could a court permit the borrower to avail himself
of the indorsement without violating the statute.
We recollect no other case in which this court has been
called upon to consider the effect of usury upon the contracts
of parties to negotiable paper. We are therefore uncommitted
upon the question now before us; and free to decide it, as well
upon reason and principle, as upon what appears to us to'be
the weight of authority.
There are two cardinal rules in the doctrine of usury which
we think must be regarded as the common place to which all
reasoning and adjudication upon the subject should be referred.
The first is, that to constitute usury there must be a loan in
contemplation by the parties; and the second, that a contract,
which, in its inception, is unaffected by usury, can never be
invalidated by any subsequent usurious transaction.
It is true with regard to the first of these canons, that there
are cases which necessarily import a loan, and no disguise, no
affectation of sale or barter can divest them of that charactersuch, for instance, as a man's selling his own bond or note,
executed, say in blank: and when these cases occur, the law
puts the stigma upon them without further inquiry The instrument having had no virtual existence until the loan or sale
was negotated, could in no wise be regarded as a transfer of
property. But he who selt his lands or stock, and takes a note
in payment, holds in his hands the representative of property;
an entity to which the improvements of society have attached
nearly all the rights and characteristics, in equity at least,
which were the acknowledged attributes of the property for
which it was received. A promise to return the money borrowed, is indeed one among the ordinary indications of a loan;
and upon the idea that the contract of an mdorstr could not be
distinguished from a general engagement to repy, have the

SUPREME COURT.
[Nichols v. Fearson et al.]

decisions in the Connecticut case and in the court below, in the
case at bar, been rendered. But the grounds of distinction are
material, for the contract between indorser and mdorsee is at
best but a conditional or provisional contract; the indorsement
of a business note produces a real transfer of interest, and the
indorsement may well be regarded in the light of a guarantee
against the insolvency of the promissor. In the case of an assignment of a bond, with a guarantee against insolvency; which
every assignment in Virginia and Kentucky imports; it has
been adjudged in both those states that usury does not avoid
the effect of the assignment. That the transfer of the right of
action on the bond is complete; and if valid for one purpose, it
is presumed it must be so to every one. Littell v. Herd,
Hardin, 81, Hansborough v. Baylor, 2 Munf. 36.
These observations are made to show that the indorsement
of this note did not necessarily import a loan. But we are not
to be understood as intimating, that if in a treaty for, or conclusion of a loan, the indorsement be. expressly stipulated for as
secmjty for repayment, the contract being usurious may not
invalidate the indorsement under the character of a security or
assurdnce. 'Such was the decision in Gaither's case in this
court; and these -emarks only go to show that an indorsement,
without a stipulation against ultimate liability, does not necessarily imply a case of usury.
And in this we.are sustained by the argument ab mconvementi, or ducitur in absurdum, which would result from the
contrary doctrine, if considered with relation to the second
canon or general rule respecting usury, as before laid down, to
wit:
That a contract free from usurious taint in its inception, is
not to be invalidated by any subsequent usurious transaction;
since, as has been- shown, by converting a sale on a discount
into a loan on usury, and thus rendering null and void the act
of indorsing it, a contract wholly innocent m its origin., and
binding and valid upon every legal principle, is rendered at
least valueless in the hands of the otherwise legal holder: and
a party to whom the provisions of the act against usury could
never heve been intended to extend, wbuld be discharged'o.a
debt which he iustly owes to some one.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Nichols v. Fearson et aL]

Such inconsistencies are not to be lightly incurred; it is
enough to submit to them when they become unavoidable: but
it is easy to assign other and adequate motives for selling a
note and then indorsmg it, without imputing to the transaction the negotiation of a loan, and it is enough if the imputa,
tion be not unavoidable. The acts against usury were intended
to protect the needy; but the holder of a note may be wealthy,
may be the lender, not the borrower of money, and yet find an
adequate motive both for selling a note and guarantying it.
Suppose the debtor absconds, or removes to the Arkansas or
the Oregon. the very wealth of the holder may make it no
object to follow him or prosecute a suit against him; his freedom from necessity may.be the holder's motive for partingwith
the note to another at a moderate sacrifice, his indorsing it will
diminish that sacrifice; and, although removing, the debtor may
be wealthy, and the inducement for the indorsement may be
tha conviction that the debt is safe,-that he will never have to
repay what he has received. There could be inferred no treaty
for a loan from such a transaction, nor .any device to evade the
statute. It is a plain contract of bargain and sale, with a warranty of the soundness of the property.
We have not had leisure fully to explore the decisions of the
states on the question, but, as far as we have gone, the great
weight of authority is certainly in favour of the validity of the
contract under review.
The courts of Kentucky have recognized the validity of such
a transfer in a case. of admitted usury between the assignor
and assignee of a bond. Littell v. Herd, Hardin, 82. The
courts of Virgina have given validity both to the assignment
of a bond and the mdoisement of a note, expressly created for
sale, and sold at an usurious discount, where there was no
proof of a negotiation for aaIoan. 2 Mumf. 36, and 5 Rand. 33.
Those of Maryland also have lent their sanction to the doctrine
in the case of Kennerv. Herd, 2 Hen. &Mumf., and in South
Carolina such has long been the established doctrine. 1 Bay.

456; 3 M'Cord, 365.
On the question whether the plaintiff may recover the whole
amount of the note, or only according to the value of-the con-

SUPREME COURT.
[Nichols v. Fearson et al.]

sideration paid, it will be observed, we are not called upon to
express an opinion.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, t'hat upon both reason
and authority the law is in favour of the plaintiff; and that the
court below erred, both in the instructions given for the defendants, and in refusmg those prayed by the plaintiff.
Judgment reversed, and a venire de novo awarded.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit.court of the United States for the district
of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is adjudged and ordered by this court, that the judgment of the said
circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed
and annulled, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby
remanded to the said circuit court with directions to award a
vemre facias de novo.

