JANUARY TERM 1833.

UNIoN BANK OF GEORGETOWN V; GEORGE B. MAGRUDER.

Whether certain facts in reference to an alleged notice to the indorser, and
demand of payment of a promissory note by the drawer, amounted to a
waiver of the objection to the wafit of demand and notice, is a question
of fact, and not matter of law for the tonsideration of the jury.
The court are entirely satisfied with their former decision in the case of the
Union Bank of Georgetown v. Magruder, 3 Peters's Rep. 87.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States-for the county of.Washigton, in the district of Columbia.
The case is fully stated m the opinion of the court.
For the 111rntiffs m error, Mr Key cited, Wynn v. Thornton, 12 Whoat- 183, Lonsdale v. Brown, 4- Wash. C. C. R.
149; 4 Dal]. 109; 3 Peters, 187, 7 East, 231, Chitty on
Bills, 234, 202, 211, 236, 1 Esp. Rep. 303, 15 East, 222,
2 Greenleaf's Rep. 207.
Mr Coxe, for the defendant m error, cited, I Dane's Abridg.
118; Bell v. Morrison, 1 Peters, 360, 12 Wheat. 186, 2 T.
R. 713, 3 Bibb, 102, 1 Saunders on Plead. and Ev.-117, 118,
119, 141, 3 T. R. 635.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause was formerly before the court upon a writ of
error to the circuit. court of the district of Columbia, sitting for
the county of Washington. The judgment then rendered was
reversed (Magruder v. Union Bank of Georgetown, 3 Peters's
Rep. 87); and a vemare facias de novo awarded, upon which
a new trial having been had, the cause is again before us upon
a bill of exceptions taken by the plaintiffs at the last trial.
The action is brought by the plaintiffs, as indorsers, to recover
the contents of a pronissory-notb made on the 8th of November
1817, by George Magruder, deceased, whereby he proried,
seven years after date, tb paytoGeorge B. Magruder, the defendant, six hundred and forty-three dollars and .twenty-one centq.
with interest, for value received, and which-was mdormed before
it became due by the defendant to the plaitiffs,

'288

SUPREME COURT.
[Union Bank of'Georgetown v. Magruder.]

There are several counts inthedeclaration. Thefirstisfounded ohx the liability of the defendant as mdorser, and avers that
the. maker of the note died before the note became due, and the
defendant t6ok administration on his estate , and after the note
became due, to wit, on the 11th day of November 1824, due
demand of payment was made of the defendant as administrator, who refused to pay the same, and, having 'due notice, be-eame liable to pay the same. The second count alleges, thaC
when the note became due,.the same not having been demanded of the maker, nor protested, for non-payment, and
nQtice not haing been given to the defendant (the defendant
being before, and when the same became due, the administrator of the maker), and the defendant, well knowing that the
same had not been paid, afterwards,.on the 15th of November
1824, m consideration thereof, and in further conqideration
that the plaintiffs would not bring suit on the note against
him as indorser, but would give time to hun for the payment
thereof (not saying for what time, or for a reasonable time),
the defendant promised that he would ultimately, and m a
reasonable time pay the ane to the plauitiffs. Then follow
the common money counts.
The bill of exceptions isin the following words
"&In the trial of this cause the plamtiffs, to support the issues
on their part, offered a competent witness, Alexander Ray,
who proved, that two or three days after the note fell due, he
had a conversation with defendant, asked him if he could arrange the note, that if he did not, probably the officers of the
bank would be blamed, he said no officer should lose any
thing by him, and that there was some property on Cherry
street, which witness understood that George Magruder m his
.lifetime owned that ihe would repair it, and that it would
become valuable. Mr Thompson had had a previous conversation with him, the defendant had not been informed by me
that the note was over due, and not demanded. Also James
Thompson, who proved that as soon as it was discovered that
the note was over, he and the cashier conversed about it, and
- about three or four days after it was over due, he determined
to call on defendant, and request him to arrange it, and state

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Union Bank of Georgetown v. Magrader.]

the circumstances attending the note, that he then called
on-defendant, anud found him from home, left word he wanted
him, and a day or two after defendant called at bank, he went
aside with him, told him the circumstances attending the
neglect in relation to the note, and requested him to tAke time
and determine what he would do as to arranging the note;
telling him that he did not wish defendant to say a word -to
him to commit himself, but to consider whether, if he did not
arrange it, the bank might not do hinm'a greater injury than
the amount of the note that some time after this conversation, he had another with defendant, that the defendant asked
him, if the debt was lost,, whose loss would it be, .would it fall
on any of the officers of the bank I Witness replied that he
did not know how that would be, that he could not answer
that question, that the bank would, perhaps, look to the,officers, and the defendant then said, no officer of the Union
Bank should lose any thing. by him that he afterwards had
another conversation with defendant in Mr Wharton's store,
that defendant said "he meant to -pay the note, but would
take his own time for it; that he would not put himself in the
power of the bank." He thinks this last conversation was
about three or four months after the note fell due. That just
before the .suit- was brought, the witness was desired by the
president of the bank, to call on the defendant, and know what
he meant to do with the note, that he did so, and that defendant then said, "I will pay that note now, if the bank will
take the- house on Cherry street for what it cost me." Witness reported the answer to the president, who said the bank
did not want the house, and shortly afterwards suit was
brought. Plaintiffs further prved that the defendant, when
the note fell due, and before, was administrator of the drawer
of the*note; George Magruder who had died before the note
fell due, and who, it is also admitted, was insolvent.
'"Whereupon, the plaintifis, on the aforegomg evidence,
prayed the court to instruct the jury as follows
".That if the jury believe.the defendant held the above conversations as stated by the witnesses, such conversations
amount to a waiver of the objectio, of the want of demand and
notice, and the defendant & liable on the note, if the jury should
VOL. VII.-2 M

SUPREME COURT.
[Union Bank of Georgetown v. Magruder.]

believe that the defendant made the acknowledgements and
declarations stated in the conversations in referene to the claim
of the bank upon him as mndorser of the note, which the court
refused.
"And the plaintiff then prayed the court to mitruct the
jury as follows:
"That if the jury believe, from the evidence aforesaid, that
the defendant, after knowing of his discharge from liability as
indorser of the said note, by the neglect to demand and give
notice, said, "that he meant to pay the note, but- should take
his own time for it, and would not put himself in the power of
the bank," and that the bank forbore bringing suit, from the
time of said conversation, about three or four months after the
note fell due, until the date of the writ issued in this cause,
then the plaintiffs are entitled to recover on the second count
of the declaration, which also the court refused to give, to
which refusal to give the said instructions, the plaintiffs excepted."
The qfuestion s, whether these instructions thus propounded
were rightly refused by the court. And we are of opinion
that they were. The first requests thet-court to instruct the
jury upon a mere matter of fact, deducible from the evidence,
and which it was the proper province of the jury to decide. It
asks the court to declare that the conversations stated (sufficiently loose and indeterminate m themselves), amounted to a
waiver of the objection of the want of demand and notice.
Whether these did amount to guch a waiver, was not matter
of law, but of fact, and the sufficiency of the proof for this
purpose was for the consideration of the jury.
The second instruction is open to the same objection. It
'calls upon the court to decide upon the sufficiency of the proof,
to establish that there was a forbearance by the plaintiffs to
sue the defendant upon the note, and of the promise of the
defendant, in consideration of the forbearance, to pay the same.
That wa the very matter upon which the jury were to respond,
as matter offact. It is also open to the additional objection,
that' it asks the court to decide this pomt,,not -upon the whole
,evidence, but upon a single sentence. of the conversations
sfated; without the slightest reference to the manner in which

JANUARY TERM 1838.
lUnien'Bank of Gporgetown v. Magruder.)

the meaning and effect of that sentence was, or might be, controlled by the other points of the conversations, or the attendant circumstances. In either view it was properly refuged.
The court have also been called, upon to review their former.
decision in this case. (3 Peters's Rep. 87;) To this it might
be a sufficient answer to say, thatno case. is made out upon
the record, calling for such a review, and if it were, we are
entirely satisfied with that decision.
The judgment of the circuit court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. on consideration whereof, it is ordered
and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed
with costs.

