SUPREME COURT.

JOSEPH BARLOW,

CLAIM'ANT- OF EIGHTY-FIVE

HOGSHEADS

OF

SUGAR, APPELLANT V. THE UNITED STATES.

Construction of the acts of congress relative to drawback on refined sugar.
The legislature did not in the enactments in reference to drawback intend
to supersede the common principle of the criminal as well as the civil
jurisprudence of the country, that ignorance of the law will not exempt
,its violation.

ON appeal from the circuit court of the United States for the
southern district of New York.
In the district court of the United States for the southern
district of New York, a libel was filed by the United States, for
the forfeiture of eighty-five hogsheads of sugar, alleging them
to have been entered for the benefit.of drawback under a false
denomination, viz, as refined sugars, with intent to defraud the
revenue.
The answer of the claimant, Joseph Barlow, denied that the
sugars were entered by a false denomination, or with intent to
defraud the revenue, and insisted they were refined sugars
within the meaning of the act of congress. Testimony was
taken in the district court by the parties to the proceedings,
and that court decreed as follows
"1The sugars mentioned in the pleadings in this cause is not
refined sugar within the meaning of the act of congress of January 21, 1829, and that entry was made. of the said sugar in
the office of the collector of the port of New York for exportation by a false denomination, the same being entered by the
owner-for the benefit of drawback or bounty, under the denomination of refined sugar. But it is further considered and decreed, that it has been made to appear, to the satisfaction of this
court, that such false denomination happened by the mistake
of the claimant, the owner, in b6lievmg bastard sugar to -be refined sugar, entitled to the drawback provided by the said act
of congress. And it is further considered and decreed by this
court, that the forfeiture of the said sugar so entered has not
been incurred by the owner. It is further ordered and decreed

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Barlow v. The United States.]

by this court, that the said claimant pay the taxable costs of
the libellants and of the officers of this court in this cause; and
that, therefore, the libel filed in tins cause be dismissed, and
that-the said sugar be delivered up on demand, at reasonable
times, to the said claimant, and it is further ordered, that a
certificate of probable cause of seizure be given to the collector.
or officer of the customs, by whom the seizure of the said sugar
may have been mad&."
From this decree both parties appealed to the circuit court
for the gouthern district of New York. On the 4th January
1831, the circuit court made the following decree.
This cause having been brought to a hearing upon the pleadings and proofs therein, and counsel having been heard upon
the, appeal by the United States of America, as well as upon
the appeal by Joseph Barlow, the claimant of the sugars mentioned i the pleadings in the cause, and the court having taken
time to advise as to its decision, due deliberation being -had, it
is now ordered, adjudged, and decreed by the court, and ins
honour, Smith Thompson, judge of this court, doth order, adjudge, and decree, that the appeal of the said Joseph Barlow,
claimant as aforesaid, be dismissed, with costs.
And it is further, m like manner, ordered,. adjudged, and decreed, that the decree of the district court of the United States
for the southern district of New York, so far, as the'same acquits the said sugars from forfeiture, for the causes in the libel
in this cause mentioned, be reversed, with costs.
And it is further, in like manner, ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the said sugars are not refined sugars, entitled to
the benefit of drawback or bounty, within the meaning of the
act of congress of the 21st 6f January, anno dommi eighteen
hundred and twenty-nine, and that the same were entered in
the office of the collector for the port of New York, for the benefit of drawback or bounty, under a false denommation, and
with intent to defraud the revenue of the United States.
And it is accordingly, in like manner, further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said sugars be, and the same are
condemned, as forfeited to the use of the United States, and
that the said United States do recover their costs of sni4

SUPREME COURT.
(Barlow v. The United States.]

to be taxed against the said Joseph Barlow, claimant as aforesaid.
The claimant appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr Morton and Mr Ogden for the
appellant, and by Mr Taney, attorney-general, for the United
States.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a libel of seizure instituted in the district court for
the southern district of New York, wuch comes before. this
court upon an appeal from a decree of the circuit court of that
ditnct, conflemning the property, viz. eighty-five hogsheads
of sugar, as forfeited to the United States.
The charge in the libel is, that the sugars were entered m
the office of the collector of the customs for the district of New
York for the benefit of drawback or bounty upon the exportation thereof by a false denomination, with an intent to defraud
the revenue. The claimant in his claim admits-that he made
the entry for the benefit of the drawback on the exportation,
gut 'he denies that the entry was made by a false denomination, and he asserts, that the sugars are truly refined sugars,
as they are denominated in the entry
The eighty-fourth section of the duty collection act of 1799,
ch. 128, upon which the libel is founded, provides, that if any"
goods, wares, or merchandize, of which entry shall have been
made in the office of a collector for the benefit of drawback or
bounty upon exportation, shall be entered by a false denomination, or erroneously as to the time when, and the vessel in
which they were imported, or shall be found to disagree with
the packages, quantities, or qualities, as they were at the time
of the original importation, &c. &c., all such goods, wares, and
merchandizes, &c., shall be forfeited, provided, that the said
forfeiture shall not be incurred, if it shall be made appear to the
satisfaction of the collector, &c., or of the court, in which a
prosecution for the forfeiture shall'be had, that such false denomination, error, or disagreement, happened by mistake or
accident, and not from any intention to defraud the revenue.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Barlow v. The United States.]

The language of this section is certainly sufficient to include
the case -at bar, if all the material facts are established. The
sugars were entered for the benefit of drawback, or bounty, in
the office of the collector; and if the entry was by a-false denomnnation, the forfeiture is incurred, unless the claimant can.
avail himself of the proviso, or -some other matter in defence.
It has, however, been contended at the bar, that in the case
of refined sugars exported for the benefit of drawback and
-bounty, no entry is required by law to be made at the office of
the collector; but that a system of regulations has been specially provided for such exportations, which supersedes or controls
those of the eighty-fourth section. And an support of this argument it has been urged, that the eighty-fourth. section applies only to articles which have been previously imported and
subjected to duties.
It appears to us upon full consideration, that this argument
Is not well founded. Sugars have-been made subject to duties
upon their importation from the first establishment of the
government down to the present.time in every tariff law; and
it is notorious, that until after the acquisition of Louisiana in
1803, no sugars were grown in the United States, and, consequently, all which were used or refined within the United
States must have been of foreign growth and importation.
,So, that if an entry under the eighty-fourth section were
required only upon the exportation of dutiable articles which
had been imported, all sugars, whether refined or not, might
have been within the provisions of that section. This is rendered- still more obvious by the terms of the act of the 5th of
June 1794, ch. 51, 'which first gave a drawback upon refined
sugars. That act laid a duty of two cents per pound upon all
sugar which should be refined, in the.. United States; and
declared, that the duties thereby laid upon such sugar, should
and might be drawn back upon such sugar refined within the
United States after the 30th of. September then next, which
-after that day should be exported from the United States to
anyforeign port or power, "and adding to the drawback upon
sugar so exported three cents per pound on account of duties
patl upon the %mportationof raw sugar" This act was continued in force until March 1801, and then was permitted to

SUPREME COURT.
(Barlow v. The Unit.ed States.]

expire. It contains however, substantially the same provisions in regard, to the proceedings to be had by the exporter
upon the exportation of refined sugar, as are contained in the
subsequent acts, by which the system of drawbacks upon
refined sugar was revived, and especially the act of 24th of
July 1813, ch. 21, which still remains in full force.(a) So that
it is clear, that the regulations prescribed on the subject of the
drawback upon refined sugars by the act of 1794 were not supposed by the legislature to interfere ln any manner with the
provisions of the eighty-fourth section of the act of 1799; but
were deemed auxiliary to the same general object, the prevention of frauds upon the revenue. They are quite compatible with each other, and aim at the same result. The terms,
however, of the eighty-fourth section are not confined to
cases of drawback upon imported goods (though from what
has been already stated all sugars at that period must have
fallen under that predicament); but they applyto any goods,
wares and merchandize, of which entry shall be made for
.the benefit of drawback or bounty. Other provisions of the
act of 1799, ch. 128, demonstrate this intent in the fullest
manner. The bounty given by the eighty-third section of
the same act, on, pickled fish and salted provisions, would
be strongly in point. But the seventy-sixth section of the
same act speaks directly to the purpose; and after prescribing the notice to be given by the exporter to entitle himself -to the benefit of the drawback, it provides that he shall.
make entry of the particulars thereof at the custom house,
&c., and if wmported articles, the name of the vessel, &c. and
the place from which they were imported. So that the form
of the entry contemplated cases of non-imported, as well as of
imported articles. The act of 20th of February 1819, ch. 447,
manifestly contemplates the same system of entries in such
cases as then fully in existence; for it provides, that "in addition to the forfeitures and penalties heretofore provided bylaw
for making a false entry with the collector of any district of
any goods, &c. for the benefit of drawback or bounty on ex(a) See actof 4th of July 1813, ch. 21, actof 30th April 1816, ch. 172,
act of 20th April 1818, ch. 365, sect. 11, act of 20th January 1829, ch. 11.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Barlow y. The United States.]

portation, the person making such false entry shall, except
in the cases heretofore excepted by law, forfeit and pay to
the United States a sum equal to the value of the articles
mentioned or described in such entry." It is impossible to
give any rational interpretation to this enactment, unless by
referring it back to the eighty-fourth section -of the act of
1799, as one then operative in its fullest extent on all subjects
of drawback. And the circumstances of tis case abundantly
establish, that such has been the practical construction of
these acts by the government, as well as of the custom house
department. We think, then, that this objection cannot be
sustained.
The next question is, whether the sugars were in this case
entered by a false denomination. They were entered by the
name of "refined -sugars." They were, in fact, sugars known
by the appellation of ba-star, or bastard sugars, which are a
species of sugars of a very inferior quality, of less value
than the raw material, they are the residuum or refuse of
clayed sugars, left in the process of refimng, after taking
away the loaf and lump sugar, which results from that process. The queetion is, whether this species of sugar is, in
the sense of the acts of congress, "refined sugar." These
acts allow a drawback "on sugar refined within the United
States."
It has been contended in argument, that all sugars which
have undergone ihe full process of refining, after they have
arrived at the point of granulation, are properly to be deemed refined sugars, whether they have been clayed or not.
In a certain sense, they may certainly be then deemed to
be refined; that is, in the sense of being then clarified and
freed from their feculence. But the question is, whether this
is the sense in which the words are used in the acts of congress.
The acts of congress on this subject, are regulations of commerce and revenue; and there is no attempt in any of them to
define the distinguishing qualities of any of the conmodities
which are mentioned therein. "Congress must be presumed to
use the words'in their known and habitual commercial sense;
VoL. VII.-3 B

SUPREME COURT
[Barlow v. The United States.).

not indeed in that of foreign countnes, if it should differ from
our own, but in that known in our own trade, foreign and domestic. If in a loose signification among refiners, sugars
should'sometimes be spoken of as being refined, without having
undergone the further process of claying; or if the whole mass
resulting from that process should sometimes indiscriminately
,acqure among them that appellation in a like loose signification , still, if among buyers and sellers generally in the course
of -trade and business, the appellation "refined sugars," is exclusively limited to the products called lump and loaf sugar,
and never includes bastard sugar, the acts of congress ought
to be construed in this restrictive sense, as that peculiarly belonging to commerce.. This was the doctrine of this court
asserted in the. case of Two Hundred Chests of Tea, Smith,
claimant, 9. Wheaton's Reports, 438, 439 iand there is not the
slightest inclination 'on the part of this court to retract it.
Now, without minutely sifting the evidence in this case,
we think that there is a decisive and unequivocal preponderance of evidence to establish, that bastard sugar is not
deemed, in a commercial sense, "1refined sugar." The appellation is exclusively limited to such os have assumed at
some time the form of white refined loaf or lump sugars.
This is established, not merely by the testimony of merchants
and grocers, and persons in the custom hobse, but by the
testimony of sugar refiners. A sale of refined sugars would
be deemed jby them not complied, withi by a delivery of bastard sugars. If this be so, it puts an end to the question,
whether the sugars in controversy were entered by a fidse
denomination.
If they were entered by a false denomination, then they
are subject to forfeiture, unless the party can bring himself
within the exceptions of the proviso of the eighty~-fourth section. And here the onus probandi rests on him to extract the
.case from the penal consequences of an infraction of the law.
*Were these sugars entered l y a false denomination, happening
by mistake or accident, and not from any intention to defraud
Ahe revenuel There was no accident in the case; there was
no mistake m point of fact, for the party knew what the article
was whon lie" entered it. The only mistake, if there has been

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Barlow v. The United States.]

any, is a mistake of law. The party in the present case has
acted, indeed, with is eyes open, against the known construeLion given tQ the acts by the government and the officers of the
customs. He has not been misled, and his conduct in the
course of making the shipment, if it be entirely compatible
with good faith, is not wholly free from the suspicion of an
intention to overreach, and evade the vigilance of the custom
house department. He has made every effort in ins power to
obtain the drawback, by passing off, as refined sugars, what he
well knew were not admitted to be such by the Igher government officers.
But we do not wish to put this case upon any ground of this
sort. It presents the broader question, whether a mistake of law
will excuse a forfeiture in cases of this description. We think it
will not. The whole course of the jurisprudence, criminal as
well as civil, of the common law, points to a different conclusion. It is a common maxim, familiar to all nnds, that ignorance of the law will not excuse any person, either civilly or
crimmaUy; and it results from the extreme difficulty of ascertaming what is, bona fide, the interpretation of the party, and
the extreme danger of allowing such excuses to be set up for
illegal acts to the detriment of the public. There is scarcely
any law which does not admit of some ingenious doubt, and
there would be perpetual temptations to violations of the laws,
if men were not put upon extreme vigilaice to avoid them.
There is not the least reason to suppose that the legislature,
in this enactment, bad any intention to supersede the common
principle. The safety of the revenue, so vital to the governmient, is essentially dependent upon upholding it. For nis.takes of fact, the legislature might properly indulge a beingnant policy, as they certainly ought, to accidents. The very
association of mistake and accident, in this connexion, furnishes a strong ground to presume that the legislature had
the same classes of cases in view; accident, which no prudence could foresee or guard aa-amst, and mistakes of fact,
consistent witlh entire innocence of intention. They may both
be said, in a correct sense, to happen. Mistake. in the construction of' the law, seem as little, intended to be excepted

412

SUPREME COURT.
[Barlow v. The UnIted'States.]

by the proviso, as accidentsim the construction of the. law.
Without going more at large into the circumstances of the
case, it is the opinion of the court that the judgment of the
circuit court ought to be affirmed, with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcnpt of the record'from the circuit court of the United States for the southern
district of New York, and was argued by counsel. on consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said circuit court m this cause be, and
the same is hereby afflrmed, with costs.

