SUPREME COURT.

GEORGE MORRIS AND DAVID GWYNNE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR
V. THE LESSEE OF JOSIAH HARMER'S HEIRS.

Ejectment for a lot of ground in the city of Cincinnati.
A question as to the admission of evidence of the declaration of a deceased
person, as to boundary.
Historical facts of general and public notoriety may be proved by reputation, and that reputation may be established by historical works, of known
character and accuracy. But evidence of this sort is confined in a great
measure to ancient facts which do not'pre-suppose better evidence in
existence and where, from the nature of the transaction, or the remoteness of the period, or the public and general reception of the facts, a just
foundation is laid for general confidence.
The work of a living author who is within the reach of the process of the
court, can hardly be deemed of this nature. He may be called as a
witness; he may be examined as to the sources and accuracy of his information; and especially if the facts which he relates are of a recent date,
and may be fairly presumed to be within the knowledge of many living
persons, from whom he has derived his materials; there would seem to be
cogent reasons to say that his book was not, under such circumstances,
the best evidence within the reach of the parties.
Special.circumstances, which were considered as exempting the evidence
contamea in a book, called the 1'Picture of Cincinnati," of the date of
the survey of the city and laying out lots in part of the same, from the
common rule, which justified its admission.
The plat of the lots in the city of Cincinnati, which had been recorded, and
on which the streets and alleys in the same were designated, and which
had been generally recogized and used in the surveys of the lots laid
down in the sane, was properly admitted m evidence.
The legal title to lands in Ohio can only be passed by a proper conveyance
by deed, according to the laws of that state.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the district of Ohio.
This was an action of ejectment prosecuted by Eliza Harmer, Josiah Harmer and Wiiliam Harmer, children and heirs
at law of Josiah Harmer, deceased, against George Morrs and
David Gwynne, to recover possession of a part of a town lot m
the city of Cincinnati.
On the trial of the cause, the defendants excepted to the admission of certain evidence, and to the instructions given by the
court to the jury upon matters of law.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Morrms v. The Lessee of Harmer's Heirs.]

To reverse the judgment in favour of the plaintiffs, they prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was was argued by Mr Ewing, for the plaintiffs in
error, and by Mr Caswell, for the defendants.
The facts of the case, and the questions of law which were
presented for decision, are fully stated in the opinion of the
court.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of erro. to revise the judgment of the circuit
court for the district of Oio, rendered against the plintiffs in
error, who were the original defendants in an action of ejectment, commenced in that court in 1828.
The original suit is for a lot of land situate in Cincinnati.
The original plaintiffs are the heirs of Gen. Josiah Harmer,
and claim title to the premises under a deed executed by John
Cleves Symmes, then proprietor of the lands, including t-he
whole city, on the 6th of May 1791, acknowledged on the
28th of November 1804, and recorded on the 30th of the same
month. The boundaries stated in the deed are as follows
"on the south on the front or river street, lying directly in
front of fort Washington, being -twelve rods wide on the street,
including two lots, and extending northerly from the said.
front street twenty rods to the -south side of the second street
from the Ohio, and adjoining the said second street twelve
rods from east to west, and on the east bounded by the lands
of his excellency governor St Clair." These lots were without
the original bounds of the citv. At the time when this deed
was executed, Symmes had 'not procured a legal title thereto
under his contract with the United States for his purchase.,
but he subsequently obtained it in 1794.
The defendants, at the trial, set up title to the premises derived under one Ethan Stone, who purchased the lands mentioned in the deed from Syinmes to Harnmer, at a sheriff's sale,
on an -execution by one Lanuna against Symnies, and as his
property, in March 1803.
At the trial there was a good deal of evidence as to the location and boundaries of the lots conveyed bythe deed of Symmes
to Harmer, and comprehending the premises, and this consti-

SUPREME COURT
[Morrs v. The Lessee of Hamer's Heirs.]

tuted one of the points in controversy The defendants also,
to rebut the plaintiffs' title, gave in evidence the record of the
proceedings in a suit in chancery, prosecuted by Harmer against
Stone in the supreme court of Ohio in 1811, the object of
which was to procure a decree against Stone for a release and
surrender of his title to these lots, under the sheriff's sale, upon
the ground expressly stated in the bill, that the deed of conveyance from Symmes to Harmer, m 1791 (the former having
then acquired no legal title), conveyed only an equitable title
to Harmer, and that Stone had fll notice thereof at the time
of his purchase under the sheriff's sale. Pending the proceedings, Harmer died, and the suit was revived in behalf of the
widow and heirs of Harmer, all of whom, except one, were
then under age, and prosecuted their suit by their mother as
their next friend. Afterwards, in 1817, a decree was made m
favour'of the plaintiffs, directing Stone to release all his title
to the land according to the boundaries contained in the deed
from Symmes to Harmer, and to yield up the possession accordingly The heirs of Harmer did not all amve at age until
1825. After the rendition of this decree, one George W Jones
was employed by Mrs Harmer to procure a release from Stone
pursuant to the decree. He testified that he came to Cincinnati in 1821. That before leaving the city of Philadelphia,
Mrs Harmer requested him to take the agency of their claim
in Cincinnati, then in the hands of Jesse Hunt, and to receive
a conveyance from Stone of the lands decreed to the heirs of
Harmer, and take possession of the same. That, at that time,
all the heirs except one were minors, and with her who was
of full age, he had no conversation respecting the matter, nor
had he any written authority to act as agent for any of them.
That after his arrival at Cincinnati he applied to Stone for a
conveyance, and after some difficulty and delay, he got him
to go upon the ground in company with Mr Este, the attorney
at law for Harner's heirs, and Mr Gest; a surveyor, and the
land was set off, by Stone, as he (Stone) claimed was correct.
The surveyor handed him a plan of survey, and Stone executed a release of the same to Harmer's heirs. That the witness knew nothing of the situation of the town, or the true
locality of the lots. He had no agency in, nor did he ever
know of the additional description of the four town lots as men-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[forris v. The Lessee of Harmer's Heis.]

tioned in the deed of release made by Stone, nor did ne know
that it conveyed other or different ground than was described
in the deed made by Symmes to Harmer.
It was also proved on the part of the plaintiffs, that in 1824
an execution was issued against Stone, and levied upon a triangular piece of ground at the junction of Ludlow and Front
streets (part of the premises mcluced in the deed of release of
Stone, and contended to be not included in the deed of Synimes
to Harmer), as Stone's property, and bought at the sheriff's
sale, in February 1825, by one Timothy Kirby, who afterwards,
in June 1827, conveyed the same to Jones, and Stolle afterwards, in August of the same year, upon a representation that
it was bought by Jones- for Harmer's heirs, to quiet their title,
executed a release thereof to Kirby.
It was also proved that Harmer's heirs have always been in
the undisturbed possession of the land released by Stone to
them, under the decree. That about the year- 1821 or 1822,
Josiah Harmer, one of the heirs, then a minor, but who came
of age in 1823, came to Cincinnati, and wishing to erect a
house on the corner of the triangular piece of ground above
referred to, contracted for the building of the same, which was
erected thereon, and has ever since been in the possession and
occupancy of persons holding under Harmer's heirs, and paying rent to them.
This statement of facts is necessary to understand the instructions prayed of the court, which will hereafter comeunder
consideration. Before proceeding to consider them, it will be
proper to dispose of some minor exceptions taken to certain
evidence, which was admitted at the trial.
It has been already stated, that one of the points of controversy at the trial was as to the true location and boundary of
the lots conveyed by Symmes to Harmer. One Thomas Henderson, a witness, among other things, testified that "he had
heard a number of the old citizens of Cincinnati, now dead,
speak of the situation of the lots sold by Symmes to Harmer,
and named.particularly Joel Williams, one of the old proprietors of the other part of the town, and David Zeigler, who, lie
said, was the reputed agent of Gen. Harmer, and m the conversation spoken of, warmly censured-Ethan Stone for attempting to take from Harmer his property." The defendants ob-

-SUPREME COURT.
[Morrs v. The Lessee of Harmer's Heirs.]

jected to the admission of Zeigler's declaration, as to the location
of said lots; which objection was overruled by the court, and
the statement of said Zeigler, as testified by said witness, was
admitted in evidence to the jury. The defendants excepted
to the admission of this evidence.
It is observable that the exception is not general to the declarations of Zeigler, but only to that which. respected the
location of the lots. Nor does it appear that any declaration
of Zeigler was given in evidence, except what is above stated.
Now, if Zeigler made no other declaration, or the plaintiffs
waived giving any other declaration in evidence, notwiths tanding the court ruled it to be admissible, it is diflicult to perceive
how this exception can be maintained, .or how the defendants
have been prejudiced. As far as Zeigler's declaration is in
evidence, it is merely introductory, that he spoke '1 of the situation of the lots;" and it no where appears that any further declaration, except in this general way, was in evidence. Such
a statement, so utterly inconsequential, cannot form any proper
matter of exception. It proves nothing; and can be considered
in no other light than as the -introductory language of the witness himself.
The plaintiffs then offered to read from Dr Drake's work,
called a picture of Cincinnati, the date of the surveying and
laying out lots in that part of Cincinnati which lies east of the
garrison reservation. To the admission of this book in evidence,
the defendants objected, the author being (as was agreed)
alive, and his deposition, as to other matters, taken in the
cause. The court overruled the objection, and admitted the
evidence to go to the jury To this decision, also, the defendants excepted.
If this exception were to 'be considered solely upon the
general principles of the law.of evidence, we should think that
it was well taken. All eNndence of this sort must be considered
as mere hearsay; and certainly, as -hearsay, it is of no very
satisfactory character. Historical facts, of general and public
notoriety, may indeed be proved by reputation, and that reputation may be established by historical works of known character and accuracy. Btt evidence of this sort is confined in a
great measure to ancient facts, which do not presuppose better
evidence in existence, and where, from the nature of the trans-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Moms v. The Lessee of Harmer's Heis.]

actions, or the remoteness of the period, or the public and
general reception of the fats, a just foundation is laid for general confidence. See 1 Starkie's Evid. pl. 1, sect. 40 to 44, p.
60 to 64, 1 Starkie's Evid. pl. 2, sect. 55, p. 180, 181. But
the work of a living author, who is within the reach of process
of the court, can hardly be deemed-of this nature. He may
be called as a witness. He may be examined as to the sources
and accuracy of his information, and especially if the facts
which he relates are of a recent date, and may be fairly presumed to be within the knowledge of many living persons, from
whom he has -derived his matenals; there would seem to be
cogent reasons to say, that his book was not, under such circumstances, the best evidence within the reach of the parties.
But we think there are special circumstances in tins case
which exempt the evidence from the common rule, and justify
its adnssion. Doctor Drake had been already used by the
defendants as a witness in the cause, on th6 point as to location and boundary of the lots. He stated, among other things,
that he was present when Joseph Gest, the city surveyor, made
a survey of the foundation of old fort Washington, a plat and
description of which, by Gest, was then before him, and was
in the case: and after stating his belief of its accuracy, and his
reasons for so believing, he added, "finally, m preparing a plat
of the town for the picture of Cincinnati m 1814, 1 took great
pains to lay down the site of the fort correctly, and I find that
the plat made by Mr Gest corresponds almost exactly with itv,
And in answer to a further question of the defendants, what
would be the location of four lots, the calls for which were
directly in front of fort Washington, nie stated, "they must all
lie between Ludlow street and Broadway, that is,. west of Ludlow street." Now, these'answers, which were brought out
upon the defendants' own inquiries of their own witness, seem
to us to justify the admission of the book of Doctor Drake, fox
the purpose of explaining, qualifying, or controlling his evidence. The remarks of Dr Drake in his book, as to the date
of the surveying and laying out lots in that part of Cincinnati
wich lies east of 'the garrison reservation, (and which was
comprehended in the scope of his testimony,) might have been
important for this purpose: and at all events, the plaintiffs
might properly refer to this book to show statewents? which

SUPREME COURT.
[Mforris v. The Lessee of Harmer's Hes.]

might affect the results of his testimony. In this view we
think the evidence was admissible; and its bearing in any other
view is not shown to have been in the slightest degree material
to the cause;
The defendants subsequently offered in evidence a maD contained in the same book, it being a plan of. the town of Cincinnati, exhibiting the same plan of the town as that offered
by the plaintiffs, except that the four first lots were not numbered. The plaintiffs then produced another plat marked No.
3, and again called Henderson, who testified that he saw the
plat for the first time in 1809, while the depositions in perpetuum used in this cause were taking. That the said plat
was shown to him by John C. Symmes, in the presence of
Daniel Symmes. That the writing thereon, and the lines, but
not the numbers, were then put upon it in the hand writing of
J. C. Symmes. That m 1811 the said plat was again shown
to him, at which time the figures numbering the lots wereupon it, and he recognized these figures as being in the hand
writing of Daniel Symmes. That he, then, at the request of
the proprietors and several of the old citizens of the town,
copied the plat, protracting it on a larger scale, and placed his
copy on the records of the county; and that the same has
since governed him, and all other surveyors, as far as he has
known, in surveys made in that part of the town, now city of
Cincinnati. That this plan was recorded for the purpose of
preserving the original plan of that part of the town which
was laid out by J. C. Symmes; and the inhabitants of Cincinnati have since recognized it as the true plan of the said part
of the town, except Ethan Stone, then in possession of the block
in which the land in controversy is situated, who denied its
correctness. That this was the only plan of that part of the
city known and recognized by the citizens of Cincinnati, that
the size and number of the streets and alleys were determined
with reference to that plan, that all the surveys of the lots,
streets and alleys in that part of the city were made with ieference to that plan, so far as lie knows; that he never knew of
any other plan, and no other was ever adopted as the plan of
the upper part of the town. The plaintiffs thereupon offered
the said plat in evidence to the jury, for the purpose of showimg the original plan of that part of the city. The defendants

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Morris v. The Lessee of Harmer's Heirs.]

objected to its admission. The court overruled the objection,
and admitted the plat m evidence, directing the jury to disregard any thing written on it by J. C. Symmes. An exception
was taken to this decision of the court, and the question now
is upon its correctness.
We are of opinion that the plat, upon this evidence, was
rightly admitted. It is to be considered, that J. C. Symmes
was the original proprietor of the whole city when it was laid
out, and that the plat was in his possession, and held out by
him as the original plat. It was traced back to that possession
more than twenty-two years before the trial, and was the
oldest and only original plat known to be in existence. It
was a publicly recognized plat by which the corporate authorities and citizens ascertained, and regulated their surveys,
lots, streets, and alleys. And having been so long and go
publicly recognized, it was the ighest species of evidence of
reputation as to the location and boundaries of the lots, streets,
and alleys, and not the less so because it was contested by
a single 'individual, whose interests might be affected by it. It
was not conclusive upon his rights, but it was admissive as the
best proof then known to the plaintiffs of the general laying
out and boundaries of the lots and streets of the city, recognized by the original proprietor, and those who had succeeded
to his rights, as well as by the public. But if this were even
doubtful (which we do not admit), it would still be admissible,
since it is not even pretended, that it differed in any material
circumstance from other plats then laid before the jury by
both parties, except as to the figures numbering the lots, and
these the court directed to be disregarded. The question,
therefore, made at the bar as to the admission of hearsay, post
litem motam, does not arise, and may well be left for decision,
until it constitutes the very point for judgment. It has, indeed, been suggested at the bar, that Symmes produced the
plat after Stone had obtained his title to the premises, and
therefore had an interest to .maintain the title of Harmer, in
order to escape friom his warranty to the latter under his deed
of 1791. But no such interest could exist, for whatever was
the true location of the lots conveyed by that deed, Symmes
undoubtedly had the title at the time and Stone, -not being a
second purchaser by deed from Symmes, but a mere purchaser
VOL. VII.-3 V

SUPREME COURT.
[(Moms v. The Lessee of Harmer's Heirs.]

at a sheriff's sale on execution, could take only such title as
Symmes then possessed .in the premises. And the not recording of the deed to Harmer until after Stone's purchase, will not
affect Harmer's title (it being clearly good between the parties),
as it might have done if Stone had been a subsequent purchaser from Symmes by deed, without notice. The plat, then,
came from Symies's possession at a time when he had not
even a semblance of interest in the controversy.
We now come to that which constitutes the main hinge of
the present. suit, and by which its ultimate merits are to be decided, and that is, the instructions given and refused by the
court.
The first instruction was prayed for by the plaintiffs, and is
as follows. "The counsel for the plaintiffs move the court to
instruct the jury that inasmuch as they claim title to the
premises in dispute under the deed from Synmes to Harmer,
and not under the deed of release made by Stone, they cannot
be divested of their title to the lots which that deed conveyed
to Harmer, by the possession of these premises for the period of
five or six years, which they supposed to be a part of these
lots, though embraced in the deed of release, but not in the
decree ;" which instruction the court accordingly gave. It
does not appear upon the record, that this instruction so given
was in express terms excepted to by the defendants, the exception being stated in the following terms, after the instructions asked by the defendants. "The court charged the jury
as requested by the defendants upon the first instruction asked
by them, but refuse the residue of the instructions in manner
and form as the same were prayed for, to which several opinions
of the court in delivering their charge as aforesaid, the defendants
except, &." But we think, that the fair import of these last
words embraces the instruction asked by the plaintiffs, for
that was an opinion delivered by the court in its charge to the
jury.
That the deed of Symmes to Harmer, in 1791, passed a
legal title to Harmer, which became consummated in the latter when Symmes obtained his patent from the United States
m 1794, is not controverted. The question is, whether the
subsequent proceedings under the bill in equity, in which that
title is asserted to be equitable, and the release given by Stone

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Morris v. The Lessee of Harmer's-Henrs.J

under that decree, and the subsequent possession of the heirs
of Harmer of thedands so released, do, under the circumstances,
estop them from setting up their legal title against the defendants. We are of opinion that they do not.
It is very clear that Mrs Harmer could not, as prochein ami,
during the minority of the heirs, authorize any release to be
taken, which did not conform to the decree, so as to make it
binding upon them. In point of fact, if the evidence is to be
believedi the agent never intended to take any release which
did not conform to the decree; and he received it -upon Stone's
representation that it did so conform. And itno where appears
from the evidence, that the heirs had any knowledge of their
rights, and of the mistake in the release, until the present suit
was brought. Unless the heirs had full knowledge of their
rights, and of the mistake in the release, and with that knowledge held possession of the premises in the release after they
arrived of age, they could not be deemed to have confirmed the
transaction, or to have accepted the release as full satisfaction
and performance of the decree.
We give no opinion what under such circumstances would
'have been the effect of such acquiescence or confirmation upon
the rights of the plaintiffs derived from the decree, or whether
afterwards* they would be permitted to repudiate the wlhle
transaction, and compel a new execution of the decree. Here,
the title, set up by the plaintiffs, is not derived from or under
the decree or rplease, but is a legal title paramount to both.
Are the plaintiffs then estopped ii law to. set, up that .title I
We think not. The bill in equity does not estop them, for
that bill stated the derivation of title correctly, and the decree
conforms to it. Neither the title set up in the bill, nor the decree, asserts any claim repugnant to the present claim. The
decree requires Stone to convey the very land in controversy.
The only difficulty is, that the bill avers the title of the plaintiffs to be an equitable instead of a legal title. But as all the
facts are stated truly in the bill, it is nothing more than a
mistake of 'law. If the defendants could rely Alpon that b}ill
and decree as an estoppel, it must be becau.s the facts therein
stated are repugnant to tie present title atserted by them.
But such Yva
not the posture of the case.
The plaintiffs then; having a legal title to the premises,

SUPREME COURT.
[Morris v. The Lessee of Harmer'sHeirs.]

which they have never parted with by a proper conveyance.
they are entitled to the instruction prayed for, unless their
possession of the land under the release, not included in the
decree, amounts in law to an extinguishment of their title.
We know of no principle of law, on which this can be maintamed.
The legal title to land in Ohio can be passed only by a
proper conveyance, by deed, according to the laws of that
state. The present is an attempt to set up a parol waiver
of title by acts in pals , a parol acceptance of other land,
in lieu of that belonging to the plaintiffs. As an extinguishment, or an estoppel, it is equally inadmissible. The question is quite a different one, what would be the effect of
such an acceptance and acquiescence under it by the parties
for a long time, as matter of evidence upon a point of disputed
boundary. The instruction given involves no such consideration. It prevents the more general question whether the possession of the released premises, precluded the plaintiffis from
asserting their legal title to the land sued for. We concur
with the c Jurt below in thinking that it did not.
The first instruction asked by the defendauts, having been
given by the court, may be passed over without notice. The
second, third, fourth and fifth instructions are as follows:
2. If, upon the whole evidence, the jury believes that Mrs
Harmer, the next friend of the minors, in prosecuting the bill
in chancery, and obtaining the decree given in evidence, authorized George W Jones to obtain the deed of release, under
the decree, and to take possession of the lands, and that George
W Jones, under this authority, as agent for the complainant
obtaining the decree, and, in conjunction-with the attorney
for the complainants that: obtained the decree, assented to the
location of the.ground, and George W Jones, as such agent,
accepted a deed, and took possession of the land according to
the boundaries described in the deed: the lessors of the plaintiff
are concluded by his acts, and the plaintiffs cannot recover.
3. If, upon the whole evidence, the jury believe that Mrs
Harmer, the next friend of the minors in prosecuting the bill in
chancery, and obtaining the decree given in evidence, authorized George W Jones to obtain the deed of release, under the
decree, and to take possession of the lands, and that George

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Horns v. The Lessee of Harmer's Hews.]

W Jones, under this authority, as agent for the complainants
obtaining the decree, and, in conjunction with the attorney for.
the complainants in obtaining the decree, assented to the location of the ground, and George W Jones, as such agent, accepted a deed, and took possession of the land according to the
boundaries described in such deed, and continued that possession, exercising acts of ownership as agent after all the lessors
of the plaintiff obtained their full age; and the defendants purchased before the lessors of the plaintiffs disavowed the acts of
George W Jones, and without any notice or knowledge of an
intention of the lessors of the plaintiffs to disavow the acts of
said Jones, public sale of the adjacent lands being made. with
the knowledge of said Jones, and no notice given by him that
the lessors of the plaintiffs (he continuing their agent) had
disavowed, or intended to disavow, his acts in locating the
lands, and taking a deed for and possession thereof: the plaintiffs cannot recover.
4. That the deed of release from E. Stone to T. Kirby, and
the decree from'the sheriff to T. Kirby, given in evidence in this
cause, for part of the lands previously released by E. Stone to
the lessors of the plaintiffs, under the decree, in execution of a
contract paramount to the original title of E. Stone, and decreed to be executed, did not, in law, divest the title of the lessors of the.plaimtiffs, previously acquired to the lands so released
by E. Stone to Kirby, and conveyed by the sheriff to Kirby, and
the continuance of the lessors of the plaintiff in possession of
all the land released to them, under the decree, and taken possession of by George W Jones, and retaihing the title thereto,
is, in law, a continued affirmance of the acts of George W
Jones as their agent, which cannot be disavowed without releasing to E. Stone, and restoring to him the possession of that
fraction of the land, released under the decree which the location claimed in the first does not cover.
5. That the relation in which the defendants are proved to
stand to those under whom they claim title, does not warrant
the" jury to infer that.the defendants had knowledge that the
lessors of the plaintiffs had disavowed, or intended to disavow,
the location as accepted by George W Jones.
The second instruction proceeds upon the ground, that the
authority given by Mrs Ilarmer to Jones, ins assenting to ac-

SUPREME COURT.
(Morris v. The Lessee of Harmer's Heirs.]

cept the release of Stone, and taking possession of the land released, concluded the plaintiffs from a right to recover; although
they were mnnors, and never personally assented thereto. From
What has been already said, this instruction was properly refused. Mrs Harmer had no authority to bind the heirs by the
acceptance of any release, not conforming to the decree.
The third instruction proceeds upon the ground, that the
acceptance of the release by Jones, under the authority of Mrs
Harmer, and the possession of the land by Jones as agent, and
continuing that possession after the plaintiffs attained tull age,
and until after the defendants had made their purchases
of the land, without any disavowal or notice of disavowal by
the plaintiffs of the acts of Jones, would preclude the plaintiffs
from a right to 'ecover. We think, for reasons already given,
the law is otherwise, and therefore the instruction was rightly
refused.
The fourth instruction affirms, that the release of Stone to
Kirby for part of the land included in the prior release of Stone,
under the decree, did not divest the legal title of the plaintiffs
to. the lands so released to them. So -far the instruction prayed
wag undoubtedly correct. But it did not stop here, but proceeded to declare that the continuance of the plaintiff in possession of the land so released by Stone, under the decree, was
a continued affirmance of the acts of Jones as their agent, which
could not be disavowed without releasing to Stone, and restoring to hn the possession of that fraction of the land released,
which the decree did not cover. To this instruction there are
two objections. The first is, that if the release to Kirby .by
Stone, and the conveyance by Kirby to Jones, were for the exclusive benefit of the heirs of Harmer, and to quiet their title
to that fraction of land, (as the evidence in the case asserts,) no
such release could be now reuired, since the plaintiffs would
be entitled to it by an independent title. But the other is
equally decisive. If the plaintiffs possess a legal title to the
land in controversy, not founded on that release, it can furnish
no bar to their right to recover, that there exists an equitable
claim against them to surrender other land taken under that
release, to which ex zquo et bono, they are not entitled. The
instruction was, therefore, properly refused.
The fifth and last instruction proceeds upon the ground, that

JANUARY TERM 1833.

567

[Morris v, The Lessee of Harmer's Heirm.]

knowledge on the part of the defendants, that the plaintiffs had
disavowed, or intended to disavow, the location as accepted by
Jones, might vary the right of-the plaintiffs to recover, and
that the relation in which the defendants are proved to stand
to those under whom they claim title, did not warrant the jury
to infer, that the defenuants had that knowledge. This instruction is open to the objection, that it asks the court to decide upon a matter of fact, as to what the relation was, in
which the defendants were. proved to stand, to those under
whom they claimed title. But the decisive answer is, that it
asks an instruction upon a point of law, not shown to have any
legal bearing upon the case. It could have no influence upon
the cause, if given, and might have had a tendency to mislead
the jury. It was, therefore, properly refused by the court.
The judgment of the circuit court is affirmed, with costs.

