OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The judgments below are reversed, and the cause is remanded to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District qf Kansas with directions to remand the cause to
the District Court qf flarvey County, Kansas.
MR. JusTIcE HARLAN dissented.

CROSS v. EVANS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 268.

Argued and submitted April 2, 1897. - Decided May 10, 1897.

Under the judiciary act of 1891 a Circuit Court of Appeals has no power to
certify the whole case to this court, but can only certify distinct questions or propositions, unmixed with questions of fact or of mixed law
and fact; and the questions certified in this case are clearly violative of
this settled rule.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. James Hagerman, Mr. F. C. Dillard and Mr.
Miller for plaintiffs in error submitted on their brief.

. S.

Mr. Rush Taggart for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The action below was commenced in September, 1890, by
Evans in a Texas state court against Cross and Eddy as
receivers of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, a corporation of the State of Kansas, to recover damages for personal injuries sustained within the State of Texas
while acting as brakeman upon a train running over a branch
line of said railway system while it was being operated by
the receivers. On the petition of the'receivers, the cause was
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the

CROSS v. EVANS.
Opinion of the Court.

Eastern District of Texas. Subsequently the railway properties were returned to the Kansas company, and in the fall
of 1891 that company transferred its lines of railroad to a new
corporation, styled the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway
Company of Texas. The receivers were finally discharged in
the month of July, 1892. In August, 1893, service was had
on the Texas company under a second amended petition, in
which the Texas company was made a co-defendant with the
receivers, its liability to the plaintiff being asserted to arise
from the terms of the order of the Circuit Court directing the
receiver to surrender the property to the Kansas company,
and upon the provisions of a special act of the legislature of
Texas authorizing the sale by the Kansas company of its
properties and subjecting the purchaser to the payment of
all the liabilities of the Kansas company. Demurrers to the
jurisdiction as also to the merits of the amended petition were
filed and overruled, and an answer was interposed by the
Texas company, which was adopted by the receivers, by way
of amendment, the latter then setting up for the first time
their discharge in bar of further proceedings.
The cause was tried upon the issues made .by the second
amended petition and the answers thereto, and a verdict was
returned against the Texas company for the sum of $7500.
By direction of the court, the jury found in favor of the
receivers. The cause was then taken by writ of error to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and, on
the hearing, that court certified to this court, under the
judiciary act of 1891, a statement, declared to consist of
matter appearing in the transcript of record filed in that
court, and the instructions of this court were requested upon
four propositions of law, as being desired "for the proper
disposition of the questions arising herein." Following the
questions. propounded was a direction that "certified copies
Of the printed record and briefs on file in this case be transmitted with this certificate to the honorable the Supreme
Court of the United States."
What may be termed the statement of facts embraces a
recital of the various steps in the litigation, and what pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

ports to be the substance of the contents of the various pleadings filed in the cause, and the assignments of error (ten
in number) filed by the defendants in error in the Circuit
Court of Appeals, the latter document being set out in
extenso, and being followed by the recital that "all of the
questions presented by the assignments of error were duly
made in the Circuit Court, and the adverse rulings thereon
are duly shown by exceptions made and saved on the trial."
In the statement, attention is called to the fact that the
plaintiff in his original petition asserted that the wreck which
occasioned his injury was caused by a defective drawhead,
while in the amended petition, filed more than a year after
the injury was sustained, it was alleged that the roadbed and
track at the place and time where and when the derailment
happened were in a defective and unsafe condition.
It was also specifically stated that the pleadings of the
plaintiff contained no allegation that any betterments had been
put upon the road by the receivers while they were in charge,
and that at the trial no evidence was offered on the subject.
The assignments of error reiterated in various ftrms the
objections taken prior to the trial to the sufficiency of the
second amended complaint, also the objections taken to
the refusal of the trial court to sustain exceptions to its
jurisdiction based upon the fact that the plaintiff and the
Texas company were citizens of the same'State, and that
the action had abated by the discharge of the receiver, and
objections raised by the plea of the statute of limitations.
The fifth assignment of error was to the refusal of the court
to return a verdict for the defendants, among other reasons,
because the plaintiff did not allege or prove that earnings
had been applied by the receivers to betterments upon the
road, or that the road had been returned to the Kansas company enhanced in value by said betterments. The questions
propounded read as follows:
"I. Under the facts of the case, as shown by the pleadings
and hereinbefore recited, was the Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Railway Company of Texas properly made a co-defendant
with the receivers Cross and Eddy?

CROSS v. EVANS.
Opinion of the Court.

" II. Under the facts of the case, as shown by the pleadings and hereinbefore recited, had the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Texas jurisdiction
and authority to try and determine the issues arising on the
record between the plaintiff Evans and the defendant the
Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company of Texas, and
give judgment accordingly?
"III. If the first and second questions or either of them
are answered in the negative, has this court, under the writ
of error jointly sued out by the receivers Cross and Eddy,
and the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company of
Texas, jurisdiction and authority to reverse in toto the judgment of the Circuit Court and direct a dismissal of the case
as against the Missouri, Kknsas and Texas Railway Company
of Texas and award a new trial as against Eddy and Cross,
receivers?
"IV. In case this court is without authority to reverse
the judgment of the Circuit Court in favor of Cross and
Eddy, receivers, the same not having been complained of by
the defendant in error, and in case the first two questions
herein certified shall be answered in the negative, has this
court authority to reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court
and remand the cause with instructions to remand the whole
cause back to the state court from which it was originally
removed? "
In Graver v. Faurot, 162 U. S. 435, it was held that a Circuit Court of Appeals has no power under the judiciary act
of 1891 to certify the whole. case to this court, but can only
certify distinct questions or propositions of law, unmixed with
questions of fact or of mixed law and fact. The questions
certified in the case at bar are clearly violative of this rule,
as, in effect, the entire record is sent up, and, by the general
questions propounded, the labor is imposed upon this court
of determining the whole case and all questions of law which
may be lurking in the record.
Thus, in the briefs filed in this court and in the court below,
counsel discuss the effect of sections 2 and 6 of an act of the legislature of Texas approved March 19, 1889, which it is claimed

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

affected pending receiverships, whether created by a court of
the State of Texas or by a Federal court, and absolutely fixed
the liability both of the Kansas company and the Texas company to pay any valid claims which might be asserted against
the receivers, and also authorized the joinder of the Texas company as a co-defendant with the receivers in any pending suit.
Whether such was the effect of the statute would seem to be
a question or proposition .of law entering into a consideration
of the general questions propounded. The certificate, however, contains no allusion to the point. So, also, in briefs
filed here and below, the question is presented of the effect of
a general statute of Texas enacted in 1891, which authorized
the formation of corporations for the purchase of railroads,
under which statute the Texas company was organized. It is
argued in the briefs that upon a proper construction of that
law it imposed upon the Texas company a liability to the
plaintiff irrespective of any order of the Federal court in the
foreclosure suit, and it is further contended that this statute
was competent authority for the joinder of the Texas company in the pending suit against the receivers. This is clearly
a separate and distinct proposition of law, essential to be passed
upon in considering the general questions certified, though the
point is not expressly referred to in the certificate. So, also,
there is no mention in the statement of facts that plaintiff in
his second amended petition averred that the Texas company
was liable to pay plaintiff's claim, by reason of the order of
the Federal court in the foreclosure suit directing the surrender of the property by the receivers to the Kansas company. That order is not set out in the statement, but the
sections of the order upon which the plaintiff relied below
were introduced in evidence at the trial and appear in the
record filed in the Circuit Court of Appeals. Thus another
distinct proposition of law, viz., as to the legal meaning and
effect of that order, is plainly latent in the record. So, also,
the general questions certified might call for a consideration
of whether in the event that a liability was not imposed upon
the Kansas company by the order of the Federal court, a liability resulted by reason of the character of the claim of plain-

-SPOKANE FALLS &c. RAILWAY v. ZIEGLER.

65

Syllabus.

tiff, and the fact that the property of the Kansas company
was returned to it by its procurement without actual foreclosure, irrespective of the fact whether or not betterments had
been put upon the property with moneys earned during the
operation of the road by the receivers. Again, a distinct
proposition of law results from the record, dependent upon an
affirmative answer to the last proposition, as to whether the
cause of action against the receivers abated by their discharge,
and whether the claim against the Texas company was a new
and independent cause of action to be tried and disposed of in
a distinct action, or was a claim in the nature of a demand
against a purchaser pendente lite, and a mere continuance of
the pending action.
These illustrations clearly show that the questions propounded are general in their nature, and amount simply to
submitting the whole case upon the entire record to-this court
for decision, and therefore that the questions certified can in
no sense be treated as stating distinct propositions of law.
Fi'om this conclusion it follows that the certificate does not
comply with the rules of law controlling the subject, and it
must, therefore, be dismissed, and
It is so ordered.
MR., JUSTICE BROWN dissented, and MR. JUSTICE BREWER,
not having heard the argument, took no part in the decision
of this case.

SPOKANE FALLS AND NORTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. ZIEGLER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 211.

Submitted March 12, 1897. -Decided

May 10, 1897.

A complaint which alleges that the plaintiff was preemptor of public land
in Washington Territory under the laws of the United States, on which
he had lived sufficient time to entitle him to a patent, and that the defendant railroad company, a corporation organized under the laws of
VOL. CLXVII-5

