OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Defendant, in Error.

received or recorded on Sunday. While many cases hold
that a judgment entered on Sunday is absolutely void, the
receiving and entering of a verdict cannot be questioned
upon the ground that those things occurred on Sunday. It
was substantially so held in Ball v. United States, 140 U. S.
118, 131, citing Mackalley's case, 5 Reports, 111; Swann v.
Broome, 3 Burrows, 1595; Baxter v. People, 3 Gilman, 368,
386; and Chapman v. State, 5 Blackford, 111. See also
Pearce v. Atwood, 13 Mass. 324; Frost v. Hull, 4 N. H.
153, 156; Nabors v. The State, 6 Alabama, 200, 201; Story v.
Elliot, 8 Cowen, 27; Ex parte White & Pergue, 15 Nevada,
146; Hoghtaling v. Osborn, 15 Johns. 119.
Having noticed all the matters in the record that we deem
important, and perceiving no error of law to the prejudice
of the substantial rights of the defendant, the judgment is
Affirmed.

TWIN CITY BANK v. NEBEKER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 202.

Argued and submitted April 21, 1897.-Decided May 10, 189T.

Section 41 of the National Banking Act imposing certain taxes upon the
average amount of the notes in circulation of a banking association, now
found in the Revised Statutes, is not a revenue bill within the meaning
of the clause of the Constitution declaring that "all bills for raising
revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives, but the Senate
may propose or concur with amendments as on other bills."
Whether in determining such a question the courts may refer to the journals of the two Houses of Congress for the purpose of ascertaining
whether the act originated in the one House or the other Is not decided.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John J. Crawford for plaintiff in error.
XrA: Soliditor General filed a brief for defendant in error,
but the court refused to hear further argument.

TWIN CITY BANK v. NEBEKER.

197

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action by the plaintiff in error to recover from
the defendant in error the sum of seventy-three dollars and
eight cents alleged to have been paid by the former under
protest to the latter, who was at the time Treasurer of the
United States, in order to procure the release of certain bonds,
the property of the bank, which bonds, the declaration alleged, were illegally and wrongfully withheld from the plaintiff by the defendant.
The plaintiff went into liquidation in the manner provided
by law on the 23d of June, 1891, and on the 25th of August,
1891, deposited in the Treasury of the United States lawful
money to redeem its outstanding notes, as required by section
5222 of the Revised Statutes of the United States. After making such deposit, the bank demanded the bonds which had been
deposited by it to secure its circulating notes, and of which defendant had possession as Treasurer of the United States. The
defendant refused to deliver them, unless the bank would make
a return of the average amount of its notes in circulation for
the period from January 1, 1891, to the date when the deposit of money was made, viz., the 25th of August, 1891, and
pay a tax thereon. The bank then made a return of the
average amount of its notes in circulation for the period
from January 1 to June 30, 1891, and paid to the defendant
$56.25, protesting thai he had no authority to demand the
tax, and delivered to him a protest in writing setting forth that
in making the return and in paying the tax it did not admit
the validity of the tax or defendant's authority to exact or
collect it, but made the return and payment solely for the purpose of procuring the possession of the United States bonds
belonging to it, which defendant had refused to release until
such return and payment were made, and further protesting
that it was not liable to the tax or any part of it. The bank's
agent then made another demand upon defendant for the
bonds; but he refused to deliver them until a return should
be made of the average amount of its notes in circulation for
the period from July 1 to August 25, 1891, and a tax paid

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

thereon. Its agent then delivered such return to defendant
and paid him $16.83, at the same time delivering a written
protest in the same form as the one above mentioned. These
transactions were with the defendant himself, and the money
was paid to him in person.
The journals of the House of Representatives and Senate of the United States for the first session of the 38th
Congress were put in evidence by plaintiff. The bank claims
that these journals show that the National Bank Act originated as a bill in the House of Representatives; that when it
passed the House it contained no provision for a tax upon the
national banks, or upon any corporation, or upon any individual, or upon any property, nor any provisions whatever for
raising revenue ; and that all the provisions .that appear to
authorize the Treasurer of the United States to collect any
tax on the circulating notes of national banks originated in the
Senate by way of amendment to the House bill.
A witness on behalf of the defendant testified, against the
objection of plaintiff, that the money paid by it to him was
covered into the Treasury, and applied to the payment of the
semi-annual duty or tax due from the bank. But it did not
appear whether this was done before or after the present action
was brought.
At the close of the evidence counsel for the bank moved the
court to direct the jury to return a verdict in its favor, which
motion the court overruled, and counsel for the bank excepted.
On motion of the defendant the court instructed the jury to
return a verdict for him. To that ruling of the court counsel
for plaintiff excepted.
Such is the case which the bank insists is made by the
record.
The taxing provisions contained in the National Bank Act
are found in its forty-first section. That section is as follows:
"The plates and special dies to be procured by the Comptroller of the Currency for the printing of such circulating
notes shall remain under his control and direction, and the
expenses necessarily incurred in executing the provisions of
this act regpecting .the procuring of such notes, and all other

TWIN CITY BANK v. NEBEKER.
Opinion of the Court.

expenses of the bureau, shall be paid out of the proceeds of
the taxes or duties now or hereafter to be assessed on the circulation, and collected from associations organized under this
act. And in lieu of all existing taxes, every association shall
pay to the Treasurer of the United- States, in the months of
January and July, a duty of one half of one per centum each
half year from and after the first day of January, eighteen
hundred and sixty-four, upon the average amount of its notes
in circulation, and a duty of one quarter of one per centum
each half year upon the average amount of its deposits, and a
duty of one quarter of one per centum each half year, as aforesaid, on the average amount of its capital stock beyond the
amount invested in United States bonds; and in case of
default in the payment thereof by any association, the duties
aforesaid may be collected in the manner provided for the collection of United States duties of other corporations, or the
Treasurer may reserve the amount of said duties out of the
interest, as it may become due, on the bonds deposited with
him by such defaulting association. And it shall be the duty
of each association, within ten days from the first days of
January and July of each year, to make a return, under the
oath of its president or cashier, to the Treasurer of the United
States, in such form as he may prescribe, of the average amount
of its notes in circulation, and of the average amount of its
deposits, and of the average amount of its capital stock, beyond the amount invested in United States bonds, for the six
months next preceding said first days of January and July as
aforesaid, and in default of such return, and for each default
thereof, each defaulting association shall forfeit and pay to the
United States the sum of two hundred dollars, to be collected
either out of the interest as it may become due such association on the bonds deposited with the Treasurer, or, at his option, in the manner in which penalties are to be collected of
other corporations under the laws of the United States; and
in case of such default the amount of the duties to be paid to
such association shall be assessed upon the amount of notes
delivered to such association by the Comptroller of the Currency, and upon the highest amount of its deposits and capital

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

stock, to be ascertained in such other manner as the Treasurer
may deem best: Provided, That nothing in this act shall be
construed to prevent all the shares in any of the said associations, held by any person or body corporate, from being included in the valuation of the personal property of such person
or corporation in the assessment of taxes imposed by or under
state authority at the place where such bank is located, and not
elsewhere, but not at a greater rate than is assessed upon other
moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of such
State: Provided,further, That the tax so imposed under the
laws of any State upon the shares of any of the associations
authorized by this act shall not exceed the rate imposed upon
the shares in any of the banks organized under authority of
the State where such association is located: Provided, also,
That nothing in this act shall exempt the real estate of associations from either State, county or municipal taxes to the same
extent, according to its value, as other real estate is taxed." 13
Stat. 99, 111, c. 106.
The provision relating to taikation which, it is alleged, was
inserted by way of amendment in the Senate, appears as section 5214 of the Revised Statutes. Other provisions of the
act of 1864 are reproduced in sections 5217 and 5218 of the
Revised Statutes.
By section 5222 of the Revised Statutes it is provided:
"Within six months from the date of the vote to go into
liquidation, the association shall deposit with the Treasurer
of the United States lawful money of the United States sufficient to redeem all its outstanding circulation. The Treasurer
shall execute duplicate receipts for money thus deposited, and
deliver one to the association and the other to the Comptroller of the Currency, stating the amount received by him,
and the purpose for which it has been received; and the
money shall be paid into the Treasury of the United States
and placed to the credit of such association upon redemption
account."
In Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 672,- in which the constitutionality of the act of Congress of October 1, 1890, 26
Stat. 567, c. 1244, was questioned upon the ground that a

TWIN CITY BANK v. NEBEKER.

201

Opinion of the Court.

certain provision which was
in it upon its final passage
was
omitted when the bill was
signed by the Speaker of
the,
House of Representatives and
the President of the Senate,this court'said: " The signing
by the Speaker of the House
of
Representatives and by the
President of the Senate, in open
session, of an enrolled bill, is
an official attestation by the two
houses of such bill as one that
has passed Congress. It is a
declaration by the two houses,
through their pl'esiding officers, to the President, that a
bill, thus attested, has received,
in due form, the sanction of
the legislative branch of the
Government, and that it is
delivered to him in obedience
to the constitutional requirement
that all bills which pass
Congress shall be presented
to him. And when a bill, thus
attested, receives his approval
and is deposited in the public
archives, its authentication as
a bill that has passed Congress
should be deemed complete
and unimpeachable.
As, the
President has no authority
to approve a bill not passed
by
Congress, an, enrolled act in
the custody of the Secretary
of
State and having the official
attestations of the Speaker
of
the House of Representatives,
of the President of the Senate
and of the President of the
United States, carries on its
face
a solemn assurance by the
legislative and executive departments of the Government,
charged, respectively, with
the
duty of enacting and executing.
the laws, that it was passed
by Congress. The respect due
to coequal and independent
departments requires the judicial
department to act upon that
assurance and to accept, as
having passed Congress, all
bills
authenticated in the manner
stated, leaving the courts to
determine, when the question
properly arises, whether the
act,
so authenticated, is in conformity with the Constitution."
Referring to the above case,
it was said in Itarwood v. Wentworth, 162 U. S. 547* 560, that
if the principle announced in
-Fieldv. Clark involves any danger
to the public, it was competent for Congress to meet
it by declaring under what
circumstances, or by what kind
of evidence, an enrolled act
of
Congress or of a territorial
Legislature, authenticated as
required by law, and in the hands
of the officer or department
to whose custody it was committed
by statute, may be shown

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

not to be in the form in which it was when passed by Congress or by the territorial Legislature.
The contention in this case is that the section of the act of
June 3, 1864, providing a national currency secured by a
pledge of United States bonds, and for the circulation and
redemption thereof, so far as it imposed a tax upon the average amount of the notes of a national banking association in
circulation, was a revenue bill within the clause of the Constitution declaring that "all bills for raising revenue shall
originate in the House of Representatives, but the Senate
may propose or concur with amendments as on other bills,"
Art. I, ยง 7; that it appeared from the official journals of the
two Houses of Congress that while the act of 1864 originated
in the House of Representatives, the provision imposing this
tax was not in the bill as it passed that body, but originated
in the Senate by amendment, and, being accepted by the
House, became a part of the statute; that such tax was, therefore, unconstitutional and void; and that, consequently, the
statute did not justify the action of the defendant.
The case is not one that requires either an extended examination of precedents, or a full discussion as to the meaning of
the words in the Co~stitution, "bills for raising revenue."
What bills belong to that class is a question of such magnitude
and importance that it is the part of wisdom not to attempt, by
any general statement, to cover every possible phase of the
subject. It is sufficient in the present case to say that an act
of Congress providing a national currency secured by a pledge
of bonds of the United States, and which, in the furtherance of that object, and also to meet the expenses attending
the execution of the act, imposed a tax on the notes in circulation of the banking associations organized under the statute,
is clearly not a revenue bill which the Constitution declares
must Originate in the House of Representatives. Mr. Justice
Story has well said that the practical construction of the Constitution and the history of the origin of the constitutional
provision in question proves that revenue bills are those that
levy taxes in the strict sense of the word, and are not bills
for other purposes which may incidentally create revenue.

TWIN CITY BANK v. NEBEKER.
Opinion of the Court.

1 Story on Const. ยง 880. The main purpose that Congress
had in view was to provide a national currency based upon
United States bonds, and to that end it was deemed wise to
impose the tax in question. The tax was a means for effectually accomplishing the great object of giving to the people a
currency that would rest, primarily,, upon the honor of the
United States, and be available in every part of the country.
There was no purpose by the act or by any of its provisions
to raise revenue to be applied in meeting the expenses or
obligations of the Government.
This interpretation of the statute renders it unnecessary to
consider whether, for the decision of the question before us,
the journals of the two Houses of Congress can be referred
to for the purpose of determining whether an act, duly
attested by the official signatures of the President of the
Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the
President, and which is of record in the State Department
as an act passed by Congress, originated in the one body or
the other. And for the reasons stated, it is not necessary to
inquire whether, in any view of the case, the defendant would
have been personally liable for the tax collected by him pursuant to the act of Congress, and subsequently covered into
the Treasury.
Judgment afirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE concurs, in the result.

LUMBERMAN'S BANK V. HUSTON. Error to the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia. .No. 203. Argued and submitted
April 21, 1897. Decided May 10, 1897
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The most favorable view of this case for the plaintiff in error is
to regard it as presenting the same question that was determined

