OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

question, and that the plaintiff has no legal right to complain
of its action. The decree of the Supreme Court of Ohio is,
therefore,
Affirmed.

BRYANT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT FOR THE

SOUTHERN

DISTRICT

OF NEW YORK.
No. 779. Argued April 26, 1897, -Decided

May 10, 1897.

Ornelas v. Ruiz, 161 U. S. 502, followed, to the point that if, in extradition
proceedings the committing magistrate had jurisdiction of the subjectmatter and of the accused, and the offence charged is within the terms of
the treaty of extradition, and the magistrate, in arriving at a decision to
hold the accused, has before him competent legal evidence on which to
exercise his judgment as to whether the facts are sufficient to establish
the criminality of the accused for the purposes of extradition, such decision cannot be reviewed on habeas corpus.

THIS was an appeal from a final order of the Circuit Court
for the Southern District of New York, dismissing writs of
habeas corpus and certiorari sued out by the appellant to
obtain his release from the custody of the marshal of that
district, and the. warden of the jail of the city and county of
New York.
The proceedings were originally instituted by a complaint
made before a commissioner of the Circuit Court, duly.authorized to act in cases of extradition, by Her Britannic Majesty's
consul general at the city of New York, who charged the appellant with the crimes of forgery, larceny, embezzlement and
false entries, committed in the city of London, and demanded
his extradition under article X of the treaty of November 10,
1842, and article I of the treaty supplemental thereto of
March 25, 1890.
The commissioner held that the evidence clearly showed
that the appellant had been guilty of a crime specifically
mentioned in the treaty stipulations between the two countries, and accordingly held him to await the action of the Sec-

BRYANT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

retary of State and the final warrant of delivery. Appellant
thereupon sued out from the Circuit Court writs of habeas corpus and certiorari; but that court, holding that there was
legal evidence upon which the commissioner could properly
exercise his judgment as to the guilt or innocence of the
accused, dismissed the writs and remanded the prisoner to the
custody of the marshal for the Southern District of New York.
From that order petitioner appealed to this court.
Mr. Lorenzo Semple for appellant.
on the brief.

Mr. T. D. Semple was

IMr. Charles Fox for appellee.
MR. JU'STIcE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The question before the commissioner in this case was
whether, in the language of the treaty of 1842, article X, 8
Stat. 572, 576, there was "such evidence of criminality as,
according to the laws of the place where the fugitive or person so charged shall be found, would justify his apprehension
and commitment for trial if the crime or offence had been
there committed."
In other words, whether, according to
our laws, there was probable cause to believe him guilty of
the crimes charged. Rev. Stat. § 5270; Benson v. Jfc.Mahon,
127 U. S. 457, 462. The question before us is even narrower
than that, viz.: Whether there was any legal evidence at all
upon which the commissioner could decide that there was evidence sujfloient to justify his commitment for extradition; or,
as stated in Ornelas v. Ruiz, 161 U. S. 502, 508, "if the committing magistrate has jurisdiction of the subject-matter and
of the accused, and the offence charged is within the terms of
the treaty of extradition, and the magistrate in arriving at a
decision to hold the accused has before him competent legal
evidence on which to exercise his judgment as to whether the
facts are sufficient to establish the criminality of the accused for
the purposes of extradition, such decision cannot be reviewed on
habeas corpus."

See also In re Oteiza, 136 U. S. 330.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The evidence before the commissioner tended to show that
Bryant was employed by the firm of Morrison & Marshall of
London as bookkeeper and assistant cashier from January
to October, 1896, at a salary of £104 per annum; that he
had under his control the cheque books of the firm and the
paid cheques returned from the bank, although he was not
authorized to sign the firm's name to cheques; that the firm
kept an account with the London office of the Commercial
Bank of Scotland, and that such account was charged with
the three following cheques, viz.: June 23, £500; August 14,
£500; September 1, £720. These cheques purported to be
drawn on the bank and to be signed by Morrison & Marshall,
and were presented for payment by the Provincial Bank of
England, and were paid and debited to Morrison & Marshall.
It further appeared that Bryant kept an account with the
Provincial Bank, in which he deposited on June 22 a cheque
Sor £500; on August 13, a cheque for £500; and on September 9, a cheque for £720, which were credited to his account.
It appeared that the three cheques paid by the Commercial
Bank were abstracted from two cheque books which were
not in use at the time, and were accessible to Bryant. No
entry was made upoil the counterfoils, or, as they are called
in this country, the "stubs," of the cheque books from which
they were taken; nor was any memorandum of such cheques
anywhere entered; nor were these cheques among those, received back from the bank in the ordinary way.
It further appeared that Morrison & Marshall had a sum
exceeding £5000, carried to the credit of a "suspense account" in their ledgers, with-which account, however, Bryant
had no authority to interfere. He did, however, bring a
credit of £2000 from such "suspense account" to a fictitious
account, which he opened in the ledger in the name of T. H.
North. Against this credit of £2000 he debited two items
of £780 and £1220. The £780 was posted in the ledger
from the cash book, and :consisted of £280 and the £500
represented by the first cheque paid June 23. The £1220
was represented by the cheques paid August 14, £500, and
September 10, £720. These amounts Bryant did not carry

BRYANT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

out in the cash column of the cash book, but in order that
the balances of the cash book, ledger and banker's pass book
should agree, he added the sum of £1220 to the total at the
bottomi of the page, notwithstanding that amount was not
in the column, nor was there any entry in the cash book
relating to the £1220, which could be posted to North's
fictitious account.
Upon this evidence the appellant contended, first, that
there was no testimony befcre the commissioner tending to
show that he had been guilty of forging the three cheques;
second, that if it were shown that he had made false entries
upon the books of Morrison & Marshall, this would not constitute an offence for which he could be extradited, for the
reason that when the treaty of 1842 was executed, the making of false entries was not forgery; third, that as to the
additional sum of £280, which the relator was charged with
embezzling, there was no evidence of criminality; fourth, that
if there were evidence sufficient to hold appellant upon the
charge of forgery of the three cheques, he could not be held
as for larceny or embezzlement, and that if he were held for
embezzlement from Morrison & Marshall he could not be also
held for obtaining the same money from the bank upon the
forged cheques; fifth, that, as he could only be tried for the
particular offence for which he is surrendered, the demanding
government and the commissioner should have elected, and
if the latter deemed the evidence sufficient to commit upon
the one charge, he should not have been committed upon
the other.
We think there was legal evidence against the prisoner
upon which the commissioner was authorized to act, and
that is sufficient for the purposes of this case. If it were
true that three cheques were missing from the cheque books
of Morrison & Marshall to which the prisoner had access,
and no corresponding memoranda were made on the stubs;
that three cheques were presented to the Commercial Bank
by a bank at which the appellant kept a personal account,
and this account showed a credit of three cheques, which
upon the following day were presented and paid by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

Commercial Bank, and that the appellant had no authority
to sign cheques for Morrison & Marshall, the inference is at
least a reasonable one that these cheques were forged by the
.appellant. The commissioner was of opinion that, if the
moneys of the firm were not actually obtained by forgery,
they were obtained by embezzlement or larceny, or, at least,
there was probable cause to believe that they were so obtained. So long as the prisoner is tried upon the facts which
appeared in evidence before the commissioner, and upon the
charges or one of the charges for which he is surrendered,
it is immaterial whether the indictment against him shall
contain counts for forgery, larceny or embezzlement. That
is a matter of practice with which we have nothing to do.
While the original treaty of 1842 authorized the surrender
only for the crime of forgery, or the utterance of forged
paper, the supplemental treaty of March 25, 1890, 26 Stat.
1508, included both embezzlement and larceny.
The order of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

ENTERPRISE MINING COMPANY v. RICO-ASPEN
CONSOLIDATED MINING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO

THE COURT

No. 267.

OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Argued April 7, 8, 1897. -

Decided May 10, 1897.

The clear import of the language of Rev. Stat. § 2820 is to give to a tunnel
owner, discovering a vein in the tunnel, a right to appropriate fifteen hundred feet in length in that~veln; which right arises upon the discovery of
the vein in the tunnel; dates by relation back to the time of the location
of the tunnel site; may be exercised by locating the claim the full length
of fifteen hundred feet on either side of the tunnel, or in such proportion
thereof on either side as the locator may desire; and is not destroyed or
impaired by the failure of the owner of the tunnel to adverse a previous
application for a surface patent before the discovery of the vein.

THIs case involves the construction of Rev. Stat. § 2323,
which reads as follows:

