WALKER v. COLLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon the whole, we are of opinion that, giving to the
plaintiff's evidence its utmost effect, it did not make a case
which should have been submitted to the jury.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed;
the judgment of the Circuit Court is likewise reversed, and
the cause is remanded to that court with directions to set
aside the verdict and award a new trial.

WALKER v. COLLINS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS
No. 59.

FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Argued and submitted March 3, 189T. - Decided May 10, 1897.

Chappell v. Waterworth, 155 U. S. 102, affirmed to the point that a case not
depending on the citizenship of the p'arties nor otherwise specially provided for, cannot be removed from a state court into the Circuit Court
of the United States, as one arising under the Constitution, laws or
treaties of the United States, unless that appears by the plaintiff's own
statemen; and, if it does not so appear, the want cannot be supplied by
any statement In the petition for removal or in the subsequent pleadings.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. E. Brown for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. A. P. Jetmore for defendants in error, Mr. C. S. Bowman and Mr. Charles Bucher were on his brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The action below -was commenced in April, 1890, in the
District Court of Harvey County, Kansas, by Collins and
Bretch, to recover damages from the present plaintiffs in
error for an alleged unlawful seizure of goods and chattels,
the property of the plaintiffs. In their answer the defendants averred that during the times mentioned in the complaint the defendant Walker was the marshal of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

States for the District of Kansas, and the other defendants
were his deputies, and that the seizure complained of was
made under the authority of an order of attachment issued
out of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Kansas, in an action therein pending, in which E. H. Van
Ingen & Co. were plaintiffs and ff. Cannon was defendant,
and it was averred that the goods were liable to be seized by
virtue of said order of attachment as the property of said Cannon. Thereafter the defendants made. application for the removal of the cause'into the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Kansas, upon the ground that the action
and the defence thereto arose under the laws of the United
States. The application was denied, but subsequently, on
application of the plaintiffs, the court reconsidered its decision, rescinded its former action, and allowed the application,
the order entered reciting "the plaintiffs interposing no objection thereto."
On June 4, 1890, after the removal of the cause into the
Federal court, a motion was filed by the attorneys'for plaintiffs to remand the cause to the District Court of Harvey
County, Kansas, for the reason that the record and petition
for removal showed no sufficient ground for such removal,
and that the record and petition did not set up and show
sufficient facts and allegations to give the Federal court
jurisdiction over the cause by removal. The record does
not show that any action was taken by the court upon this
motion.
A judgment recovered by the plaintiff was reversed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. 4 U. S.
App. 406. Upon a second trial, in November, 1892, the plaintiff again recovered judgment, which, on error, was affirmed
by the appellate court. 19 IT. S. App. 307. A writ of error
was allowed, the cause was brought to this court, and it is
now sought to obtain a reversal of the judgment of affirmance
rendered by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Various specifications of error are assigned in this court.
We need, however, only consider the first specification discussed in the brief of counsel for the plaintiff in error, to wit,

WALKER v. COLLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

that the Circuit Court and Circuit Court of Appeals were
without jurisdiction over the controversy, and the judgments
rendered were erroneous, by repson of the fact that the cause
was improperly removed from the state court. This objection
must be sustained upon the authority of Chappell v. Waterworth, 155 U. S. 102. That was an action of ejectment
brought in a state court, both plaintiff and defendant being
residents of the same State, the declaration merely describing
the land and alleging an ouster of the plaintiff by the defendant. The cause was removed into a Circuit Court of the
United States upon the petition of the defendant setting
forth that the United States owned and held the land for a
light-house, and that the defendant was holding possession
as the keeper thereof under the authority of the United
States. This court declined to consider the question presented by the record and argued at the bar, because the
cause was removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States without authority of law, holding that under the acts
of March 3, 1887, c. 373, and August 13, 1888, c. 866, a case
(not depending on the citizenship of the parties, nor otherwise specially provided for) cannot be removed from a state
court into the Circuit Court of the United States, as one arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United
States, unless that appears by the plaintiff's statement of his
own claim, and, if it does not so appear, the want cannot be
supplied by any statement in the petition for removal or in
the subsequent pleadings.
As in the complaint in the case at bar there are no facts
averred showing that the controversy was one arising under
the laws of the United States, and it was not essential to the
statement of the cause of action that such facts should be
averred, the case comes directly within the operation of the
ruling cited. In reversing the judgments, however, as the
cause was removed from the state court upon the application of the present plaintiffs in error, all the costs from the
time of such removal must be borne by them. Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Alabama, 155 U. S. 482, 488, and cases
cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The judgments below are reversed, and the cause is remanded to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District qf Kansas with directions to remand the cause to
the District Court qf flarvey County, Kansas.
MR. JusTIcE HARLAN dissented.

CROSS v. EVANS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 268.

Argued and submitted April 2, 1897. - Decided May 10, 1897.

Under the judiciary act of 1891 a Circuit Court of Appeals has no power to
certify the whole case to this court, but can only certify distinct questions or propositions, unmixed with questions of fact or of mixed law
and fact; and the questions certified in this case are clearly violative of
this settled rule.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. James Hagerman, Mr. F. C. Dillard and Mr.
Miller for plaintiffs in error submitted on their brief.

. S.

Mr. Rush Taggart for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The action below was commenced in September, 1890, by
Evans in a Texas state court against Cross and Eddy as
receivers of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, a corporation of the State of Kansas, to recover damages for personal injuries sustained within the State of Texas
while acting as brakeman upon a train running over a branch
line of said railway system while it was being operated by
the receivers. On the petition of the'receivers, the cause was
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the

