LOUISIANA v. NEW ORLEANS.
Counsel for Appellants.

zen8' Bank, recognizing and enforcing its non-liability
to taxation, state, parochial and municipal, on its capital
stock, its banking house andfurniture acquired and used
for the purposes of its banking business, and on a tax on
its shareholders eo nomine, accompanied with a legal
obligation on the bank to pay the tax. Second, rejecting
the claim of the bank to non-liability of its shareholders
for taxation, without prejudice to the rights of the shareholders to resist an assessment for taxation against the
shares owned by them unaccompaniedwith an obligation on
the part of the bank to pay, in case such tax should be levied
by the laws of Louisiana. Third, rejecting the claim of
the bank to non-liability to taxation on the property acquired by it under foreclosure of mortgage - the whole
without prejudice to the right of the state and municipal
authorities to claim a license tax, should such be imposed
by law on the bank, amd without prejudice to the right of
the bank to assert any legal defences which it may have to
the payment of such license tax.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, MR. JUSTICE BROWN and MR.

dissented on the ground that the judgments
are not res judicata,although in all
appellee
the
by
on
relied
other respects they concurred.
JUSTICE PECKHAM

LOUISIANA v. NEW ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 488. Argued January 15, 18, 1897. - Decided May 24, 1897.

New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 871, affirmed and followed.

THE case is stated in the opinion. The case was argued
with New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, ante, 371, as one case.
.Mr.M. J. Cunningham, Attorney General of the State of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Louisiana for appellants. Mr. F. C. Zacharie and Mr. Alexander Porter .Morse were on his brief.
ffr. William A. Maury for appellee. Mr. tfenry Denis and
.Mr.Branch K. Miller were on his brief.
Mr. Samuel L. Gilmore for' appellant.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The reasons given for our decree in the case of New Orleans
v. Citizens' Bank, just decided, are decisive of this cause,
which comes on error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Louisiana. The controversy presented to that court was
whether property bought in by the Citizens' Bank under foreclosure of its stock and stock loan mortgages became a part of
its capital and as such was not liable to taxation. The Supreme Court of Louisiana held, conceding, arguendo, the nontaxability of the capital that the real estate so purchased was
taxable. State ex rel. Citizens' Bank v. Board of Assessors,
48 La. Ann. 35.
The theory on which the writ of error was prosecuted is
that this decision of the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana constitutes an impairment of the obligations of the contract arising from the charter of the bank.
As, in the case just decided, we have held that the property
bought in by the bank under foreclosure of its stock mortgages was not the capital of the bank, and therefore was not
covered by the estoppel of the thing adjudged, the conclusions
there expressed are in all respects applicable and decisive
of the controversy here presented, and the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana is, therefore,
Affrmed.

