OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Decree of the Court.

this case.

We see no error in the decision of the Court of

Appeals, and its decree, dismissing the bill, is

Affirm ed.

MR.JUSTIcE HARLAN dissented.
MR.JUSTICE GRAY and MR. JUSTICE BROWN were not present

at the argument, and took no part in the decision.

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
ORIGINAL.
No. 2. Original. Final decree announced May 24, 1897.

'The report of the commissioners for permanently marking the boundary
line established between the States of Indiana and Kentucky by the decree
of May 18, 1896, 163 U. S. 520, is approved by this court.

MR.CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER

announced the decree of the court.

Tis cause coming on to be heard on the report of Amos Stickney, Gustavus V. Menzies and Gaston M. Alves, commissioners,
hereinbefore appointed to ascertain and run the boundary line
between the States of Kentucky and Indiana, and continued
by the decree of this court herein entered May 18, 1896, for
the purpose of permanently marking said line as set forth in
their then report which was approved by this court on that
date, and to make report thereon to this court; which report
now made is as follows:
To the Honorable Melville WF. Fuller, Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court of the United States:

The undersigned Commissioners, appointed by this honorable court, in the above-entitled cause, respectfully report, that,
pursuant to the order made in said cause at the October term,
1895, continuing the commission for the purpose therein stated,
they gave notice for bids for the stone monuments and iron
posts and setting of the same to mark the boundary line as
established by the order of this court. The commission met
at the custom house in the city of Evansville, Indiana, on the

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY
Decree of the Court.

ninth day of April, 1897, and received and opened the bids for
the above-named material and work. The casting of the iron
posts was let to the Heilman Machine Works of Evansville,
Indiana, for the sum of one hundred and twenty dollars
($120.00), it being the lowest and best bidder; the making
and setting in place of the three stone monuments was let to
F. J. Scholz & Son of Evansville, Indiana, for the sum of two
hundred and forty-five dollars ($245.00), said firm being the
ldwest and best bidder; the setting of the sixteen iron posts
was let to Eb. Cross of Evansville, Indiana, for the sum of
one hundred and ninety-seven dollars ($197.00), he being the
lowest and best bidder. That contracts were made with each
of said parties and bonds taken for the honest and faithful
performance of the contracts. That on the 7th day of May,
1897, after the engineer in charge of the work had reported
that the monuments had been erected, and posts placed in
position, in conformity to the order of the court, and the location on the established line of each monument and post had
been verified by accurate observations and measurements, the
Commission, accompanied by the engineer, visited the line,
and by observations and measurements satisfied themselves of
the accuracy of locations, and that the work of making and
placing the boundary marks had been well done, and in accordance with the order of the court.
We herewith attach, as a part of this report, the report of
the engineer in charge of the works. Also a statement of
expenses incurred and compensation of the Commissioners
since making the former report, which we recommend be adjudged as cost equally against the parties to the suit. We
further recommend that upbn the confirmation of this report,
a certified copy of the same be sent to the Governor of the
State of Indiana, and one to the Governor of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
Your Commissioners therefore pray that this report be confirmed and they be discharged.
AMos

STIKNEY,

GUSTAVUS V. MENZIES,
GASTON

M.

ALVES,

Commissioners.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Decree of the Court.

To the Honorable Commissionerson the Andiana and Kentucky
Boundary Line at Green River Island.
GENTLEMEN: In accordance with your instructions, I made
plans and detailed drawings for stone and iron monuments, to
permanently mark the line between the States of Indiana and
Kentucky at Green River Island, to replace the cedar posts
as placed on it during the winter of 1896. Upon your approval
of the plans. and letting the contracts for the monuments, I
proceeded to verify the line and angles to satisfy myself that
no post had been moved On the completion of the monuments I superintended the work of setting them.
The three monuments of stone are of sawed Green River
limestone, 18 inches in cross section and 6 feet in length. At
the starting point on the section line between sections 14 and
15, town 7 south, range 10 west, the monument has the word
"Initial" on the side next section 14, on the north side the
word "Indiana," and on the south side the word "Kentucky"
cut horizontally in the stone near the top, in Egyptian letters.
Near the midway distance along the line, and near the line
between sections 8 and 9, the second stone monument is set,
with the word "Indiana" cut on the northerly side, and the
word "Kentucky" cidt on the southerly side, similar to the
first monument.
At the terminal point going down the Ohio River, the third
stone monument is placed. The word " Indiana" is cut on the
northeasterly side, the word "Kentucky" on the southwesterly
side, and the word "Terminal" on the northwesterly side in
the same style as the first monument.
For each of these monuments there was an excavation made
six feet square and four feet deep, in the bottom of which one
foot in thickness of concrete was placed and well rammed. On
this the stone was placed on end and filled around with concrete, well rammed to the surface of the ground, leaving three
feet of the stone above the ground.
At each of the 16 intermediate angles, iron monuments were
placed. These are of cast iron, round, six inches in cross section, the top closed and a square pedestal cast on the lower
end, the casting being three quarters of an inch thick. The

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Decree of the Court.

and the word "Kentucky"
word " Indiana" on the one side
on the other, were cast in raised letters, the words reading
downward.
square
An excavation was made for each of these, three feet
concrete
of
inches
six
and
deep,
feet
and three and one-half
set and
well rammed in the bottom, on which the post was
leavground,
the
of
surface
the
to
filled around with concrete
had
silt
where
places
four
In
ing three feet above ground.
ground,
the
in
accumulated rapidly on account of a depression
case the
the excavation was made more shallow, but in each
earth
the
and
depth,
in
feet
concrete bed is three and one-half
banked around it to protect the concrete.
monuGreat care was taken in having centres cut in each
line
the
on
point
ment, and placing them on the exact angle
as originally located.
my own
lEvery monument was set and completed under
personal supervision.
Respectfully submitted, C. C. Gxxuxo, C. E.
EVANSVILLE, IND.,

ifay 5th, 1897.

of the ComStatement of exrpenses incurred and compensation
report.
former
making
since
missioners
C. C. Genung, Civil Engineer. - Services of himself and assistants, making plans, specifications,
writing contracts, verifying lines, angles and
points on boundary line; laying out and superintending work, expenses of teams for self and
Commissioners at various times for supervising
$195 50
and inspecting work ........................
typeKeller Printing Company, for printing and
12 50
w riting . ...................................
00
120
Heilman Machine Works, ib iron posts ..........
00
245
F. J. Scholz & Son, 3 stone monuments, placed...
00
197
Eb. Cross, placing 16 iron posts in concrete ......
Expenses of Lt.-Col. Amos Stickney, Commis$34 50
sioner ............................
134 50
100 00
....
commission
of
Services as. member
50
$904
Forward
VOL CLXVI-lS

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

Brought forward
Expenses of Gustavus V. Menzies, Com10 00
m issioner ............................
Services as member of commission ....

$904 50

100 00

110 00
Expenses of Gaston M. Alves, Commissioner ...............................

7 50

Services as member of commission.... 100 00

107 50
$1122 00

Total .............................

It is ordered, adjudged and decreed that their said report
hereby, affirmed.
this day filed be, and the same is
It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the compensation of the commissioners and expenses attendant
upon the discharge of their duties in permanently marking said line as directed by the decree of May 18, 1896, be,
and the same are hereby, allowed at the sum of one thousand
one hundred and twenty-two dollars($1122), in accordance
with their report, and that said charges and expenses and
the costs of this suit to be taxed be equally divided between
the parties hereto.
And it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the
clerk of this court do forthwith transmit to the Chief
Magistrates of the States of Kentucky and Indiana copies
of this decree, duly authenticated, under the seal of this
court.

TLA-KOO-YEL-LEE

v. UNITED STATES.

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 516. Submitted March 1, 1897. - Decided May 24, 1897.

Tak-Ke and the plaintiff were indicted for murder. On tile separate trial of
the plaintiff in error, Tak-Ke's wife was a witness against him. On
cross-examination the following questions were put to her: Who are yo.%

