THE J. P. DONALDSON.
Syllabus.

owners," clearly means, by the words "the proceedings," all
the proceedings, not merely the award of damages, but also
the assessment of benefits, for if the award of damages is void,
there remains no sum to be assessed for benefits. The phrase
"and the land shall revert to the owners," is not happily
chosen, for, the damages not having been paid, the title in
the land has never passed out of them; but the clear meaning is that the title to the land shall be held to have remained
in the owners as if no proceedings for condemnation had bedn
had. This provision secures the owners from being compelled to part with their lands without receiving just compensation, and is within the constitutional authority of the legislature. Baltimore & Susquehanna Railroad v. Nesbit, 10
How. 395 ; Garrison v. New York, 21 Wall. 196.
The result is that there is nothing in the act of March 2,
1893, c. 197, inconsistent with the Constitution, and therefore
the judgments of both of the courts of the District of Columbia must be reversed. So far as the cases are disclosed by the
records sent up, it would seem that judgment should be
entered upon each of the verdicts as originally returned. But
the appellate jurisdiction conferred upon this court being
restricted to the determination of th8 question whether the
act of 1893, or any part thereof, is unconstitutional, the safer
and more proper form of judgment appears to this court to be
Judgments of the Court of Appeals and of the Supreme Court
of the'Districtof Columbia reversed, and cases remanded
for furtherproceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

THE J. P. DONALDSON.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 29.

Argued April 1, 1896. -

Decided May 24, 1897.

No contribution in general average, can be had against a steam tug for the
casting off and abandonment, by her master, of her tow of barges, with
the intention and the effect of saving the tug.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr.F

. .Masten for appellant.

JMr. Harvey D. Goulder filed a brief for appellant, upon
Which were also .Mr.FrancisJ.Wing and .Mr.S. Holding.
Mr.Frank H. Canfield for appellee.

Mr. George L. Can-

field was on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

Two libels in admiralty in the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Michigan, against the propeller J. P. Donaldson, by the owners of the barges Eldorado
and George W. Wesley, for the loss of the barges, having been
consolidated and dismissed in that court; and its decree having been reversed by the Circuit Court upon the ground that
the libellants were entitled to recover against the propeller
for the loss of the barges as a general average contribution,
and a decree accordingly having been rendered for the libellants; and the causes having been taken by appeal from the
Circuit Court to the Circuit Court of Appeals; that court,
desiring the instruction of this court as to the right of the
owners of the barges to recover against the propeller upon
the principles of general average contribution, certified to
this court the question whether they could so recover upon
the following facts:
"The J. P. Donaldson was towing the said barges Eldorado
and George W. Wesley from Buffalo, New York, to Bay City,
Michigan, having no other connection with them than that
she was to tow them, and to receive for her services a portion
of freight which the said barges would earn on the trip, according to the custom and usage which prevails upon the Great
Lakes. By a violent storm, and without negligence on the
part of the J. P. Donaldson, she, with her tow, were driven
on a lee shore, and all were in imminent, if not certain, peril
of being blown ashore and lost. The J. P. Donaldson strug-

THE J. P. DONALDSON.
Opinion of the Court.

gled against the storm to the last moment she could with
safety to herself; and then, in order to prevent her from
going ashore and being lost, her master, after first giving
notice with her steam whistle of his intention to do so, and
without negligence on his part, cut the tow-line connecting
said barges to her, and the said barges were driven on shore
and were wrecked and lost, and the J. P. Donaldson, by reason of being thus disencumbered of her tow, was enabled to
reach a port of safety."
By the order of that court there were transmitted to this
court, together with the above certificate, copies of the pleadings and decrees, and of the opinions of the District and Circuit
Courts, reported in 19 Fed. Rep. 264, and 21 Fed. Rep. 671.
This case presents a novel question in the law of general
average, which, briefly stated, is whether a contribution in
general average can be had against a steam tug for the casting off and abandonment, by her master, of her tow of barges,
with the intention, and with the effect, of saving the tug.
The decision of this court in the recent case of Ralli v.
Troop, 157 U. S. 386, and the reasons upon which that decision was based, go far towards determining this question.
In that case, upon full review of the authorities, it was held
that the right of contribution in general average, whether
considered as resting upon natural justice, or upon implied
contract, or upon a rule of the maritime law, known to and
binding upon all owners of ships and cargoes, could only arise
out of the exercise of the power of the master, or of one occupying his place, as the agent by necessity of the owners of
ship and cargo, and charged by law with the duty, in case of
emergency, of sacrificing part of the property for the safety
of the rest. This court there said: "Whether the master is
considered as acting under an implied contract between the
owners of the vessel and the shippers of the cargo, or as the
agent of all from the necessity of the case, or as exercising a
power and duty imposed upon him by the law as incident to
his office -whatever may be considered the source of his authority-the power and the duty of determiningwhat part
of the common adventure shall be sacrificed for the safety of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the rest, and when and how the sacrifice shall be made, appertain to the master of the vessel, magister navis, as the person
entrusted with the command and safety of the common adventure, and of all the interests comprised therein, for the
benefit of all concerned, or to some one who, by the maritime
law, acts under him, or succeeds to his authority." 157 U. S.
400. "There can be no general average, unless there has
been a voluntary and successful sacrifice of part of the maritime adventure, made for the benefit of the whole adventure,
and for no other purpose, and by order of the owners of all
the interests included in the common adventure, or the authorized representative of all of them. The safety of any
property, on land or water, not included in that adventure,
can neither be an object of the sacrifice, nor a subject of the
contribution." 157 U. S. 403. It was likewise shown that
by the general law, unless modified by local statute or custom, the right of contribution is limited to the particular ship
and cargo, and the sacrifice of one ship for the safety of another does not give rise to any claim of general average. 157
U. S. 404, 406, 408.
The question then is whether the steam tug and her tow of
barges were so connected by the contract of towage, as to
make the tug and the tow, while navigated under and in
accordance with that contract, a single maritime adventure;
to entrust the master of the tug with the authority, in case of
unforeseen emergency, of sacrificing any of the barges, or the
whole or part of the cargo of any of them, for the safety of
the rest of the barges and their cargoes, or of the tug, or of
her cargo, if any; and, if such safety is thereby secured, to
give the owners of the interest sacrificed a right of contribution in general average against the interests saved, or their
owners.
While the tug is performing her contract of towing the
barges, they may indeed be regarded as part of herself, in the
sense that her master is bound to use due care to provide for
their safety as well as her own, and to avoid collision, either
of them or of herself, with other vessels. The Syracuse, 9
Wall. 672, 675, 676.; The Civilta, 103 U. Si 699, 701.

THE J. P. DONALDSON.
Opinion of the Court.

But the barges in tow are by no means put under the control of the master of the tug to the same extent as the tug
herself, and the cargo, if any, on board of her.
A general ship carrying goods for hire, whether employed
in internal, in coasting or in foreign commerce, is a common
carrier; and the ship and her owners, in the absence of a
valid agreement to the contrary, are liable to the owners of
the goods carried as insurers against all losses, excepting only
such irresistible causes as the act of God and public enemies.
Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 437.
But a tug and her owners are subject to no such liability to
the owners of the vessels towed, or of the cargoes on board of
them. The owners of those vessels or cargoes cannot maintain any action for the loss of either against the tug or her
owners, without proving negligence on her part. As was
said by Mr. Justice Strong, and repeated by the present
Chief Justice, "An engagement to tow does not impose
either an obligation to insure, or the liability of common
carriers. The burden is always upon him who alleges the
breach of such a contract to show either that there has been
no attempt at performance, or that there has been negligence
or unskilfulness to his injury in the performance. Unlike the
case of common carriers, damage sustained by the tow does
not ordinarily raise a presumption that the tug has been in
fault. The contract requires no more than that he who
undertakes to tow shall carry out his undertaking with that
degree of caution and'skill which prudent navigators usually
employ in similar services." The Webb, 14 Wall. 406, 414;
The Burlington, 137 U. S. 386, 391. See also The L. P.
Dayton, 120 U. S.337, 351.
The master of a vessel is appointed by her owners, and is.
their agent, and they are responsible for injuries caused to
third persons by his negligence in navigating the vessel. The
master of the tug is appointed by and is the agent of the
owners of the tug; he is not appointed by the owners of
the vessels towed; and if, by mismanagement of the tug,
without any negligence on the part of the tow, the tow is
brought into collision with another vessel, the tug and not

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the tow is responsible. Te John .Fraser,21 How. 184; The
ttector, 24 How. 110. As was said by this court in The
Hector: "By employing a tug to transport their vessel .from
one point to another, the owners of the tow do not necessarily constitute the master and crew of the tug their agents
in performing the service. They neither appoint the master
of the tug, nor ship the crew; nor can they displace either
the one or the other. Their contract for the service, even
though it was negotiated with the master, is, in legal contemplation, made with the owners of the vessel, and the
master of the tug, notwithstanding the contract was negotiated with him, continues to be the agent of the owners of
his vessel, andthey are responsible for his acts in her navigation." 24 How. 123.
In Transportation Line v. Hope, 95 U. S. 297, in which the.
owner of a barge maintained an action against the owner of
a tug for negligence of the master of the tug, by which the
barge was totally lost, this court, while holding that the tug
"had the supreme control of the barge, so far as it was necessary to enable it to fulfil its contract to tow the barge," recognized that the tug "did not occupy the position of a common
carrier, and did not have that exclusive control of the barge
which that relation would imply; it did not employ or pay
the master and the men in charge of her; nor did it exercise
that internal control of her cargo, its storage, its protection,
and the like, which belonged to a bailee." 95 U. S. 300.
It is solely for the purpose of performing the contract of
towage, that the vessels towed are put under the control and
management of the master of the tug. In all other respects,
and for all other purposes, they remain under the control of
their respective masters; and, in case of unforeseen emergency, it is upon the master of each that the duty rests of
determining what shall be done for the safety of his vessel
and of her cargo. If the question arises whether it is safer
for one of the barges to continue in tow, or to cut loose and
anchor, the decision of that question ultimately belongs to her
own master, and not to the master of the tug. And if the
question presented is either whether the barge should be run

THE J. P. DONALDSON.
Opinion of the Court.

ashore for the purpose of saving her cargo, or else whether a
part or the whole of the cargo of the barge should be sacrificed in order to save the rest of her cargo, or the barge herself, the decision of the question whether such stranding or
jettison should or should not be made is within the exclusive
control of the master of the particular barge, and in no degree
under the control of the master of the tug; and, in either
case, any right of contribution in general average cannot
extend beyond that barge and her cargo.
The suggestion of the counsel for the libellants, that the
barges had no means of self-propulsion and were powerless
for any purpose of navigation, is unsupported by the statement of facts in the certificate of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and is inconsistent with the allegations of the libellants
themselves. Each of the libels alleged that the barge was "in
every respect well manned, tackled, apparelled and appointed."
One of the libels alleged that the George W. Wesley was a
schooner barge, and on the night before the loss "carried her
mainsail, foresail and staysail," and that early in the morning
"said sails were taken in," because "the sails would not draw
in the course that they were then running." And the other
libel alleged that on the day after the loss the master and
crew of the Eldorado returned on board of her, and proceeded
to strip the wreck "and save from it all that could be saved
of her sails, rigging, etc." And each answer alleged that
after the storm began the master of the tug signalled the
barges "to make sail and get their anchors ready."
The master of the tug, having no authority to decide, as
between a barge and her cargo, what part shall be sacrificed
for the safety of the rest, and thereby to subject what is
saved to contribute in general average for what is lost, can
surely have no greater authority, by abandoning all the
barges with their cargoes, to subject the tug to a general
contribution.
average
I The fact that the sum to be paid to the tug for towing each
barge was measured by a certain proportion of the freight to
be earned by that barge is immaterial. It did not create a
partnership between the owners of the tug and the owners of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

the barges. Meehan v. Valentine, 145 U. S. 611. Nor could
it have the effect. of combining the tug and the barges into a
single maritime adventure, within the scope of the law of
general average.
For the reasons above stated, this court concurs in the
opinion expressed in this case by Mr. Justice Brown, when
District Judge, that "the law of general average is confined
to those cases wherein a voluntary sacrifice is made of some
portion of the ship or cargo for the benefit of the residue,
and that it has no application to a contract of towage." 19
Fed. Rep. 272.
Question certified answered in the negative.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN took no

part in this decision.

THE GLIDE.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 39. Argued May 1, 1896. -Decided

May 24, 1897.

The enforcement in rem of the lien upon a vessel, created by the Public
Statutes of Massachusetts, c. 192, §§ 14-19, for repairs and supplies in
her home port, is exclusively within the admiralty jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States.

THIs was a petition to the Superior Court of the county of
Suffolk and State of Massachusetts, under section 17 of chapter
192 of the Public Statutes of Massachusetts (the material provisions of which are copied in the margin 1) by the Atlantic
1 SECT. 14. When by virtue of a contract, expressed or implied, with the
owners of a vessel, or with the agents, contractors or sub-contractors of
such owners, or with any of them, or with a person who has been employed
to construct, repair or launch a vessel, or to assist therein, money is due
for labor performed, materials used, or labor and materials furnished in the
construction, launching or repairs of, or for constructing the launching
ways for, or for provisions, stores or other articles furnished for or on account of such vessel in this Commonwealth, the person to whom such money

