OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.
in Twin City National Bank v. Nebeker, just decided.
reasons stated in the opinion in that case the judgment is

For the
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE concurred in the result.
Mr. John J. Crawford for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Solicitor General for defendant in error.

TINDAL v. WESLEY.
CERTIORARI

TO THE COURT
No. 231.

OF APPEALS FOR THE

Argued March 25, 1897. -Decided

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

May 10, 1897.

This was a suit by citizens of New York against citizens of South Carolina to
recover the possession of certain real property in that State, with damages
for withholding possession. One of the defendants in his answer stated
that he had no personal interest in the property, but as secretary of
state of South Carolina, had custody of it, and was in possession only
in that capacity. The other defendant stated that he was watching,
guarding and taking care of the property under employment by his
co-defendant.
Both defendants disclaimed any personal interest in
the property, and averred that the title and right of possession was in
the State. Held, That the suit was not one against the State within the
meaning of the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitation of the United
States declaring that "the judicial power of the United States shall
not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced
or prosecuted against one of the United States by citizens of another
State, or by citizens or subjects of a foreign State." Whether a particular suit is one against the State within the meaning of the Constitution
depends upon the same principles that determine whether a particular
suit is one against the United States.
United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, and other cases, examined and held to
decide that a suit against individuals to recover the possession of real
property is not a suit against the State simply because the defendant
holding possession happens to be an officer of the State and asserts that
he is lawfully in possession on its behalf. The Eleventh Amendment
gives no immunity to officers or agents bf a State in withholding the
property of a citizen without authority of law; and when such officers or
agents assert that they are in rightful possession, they must make that
assertion good, upon itsappearing, in a suit against them as individuals,
that the legal title and right of possession is in the plaintiff.

TINDAL v. WESLEY.
Opinion of the Court.
The judgment in this case does not conclude the State unless it becomes
a party to the suit. Not having submitted its rights to the determination of the court, it will be open to the State to bring any action that
Will be appropriate to establish and protect whatever claim it has to the
premises in dispute.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
3Xr. William A. Barberfor plaintiffs in error. Mr. Samuel
W. Melton and Mr. Itenry _. Obear were on his brief.
Mr. William H. lyles for defendant in error.
W. Shand was on his brief.

Mr. Robert

M . JUSTIcE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
Wesley, a citizen of New York, brought this action in the
Circuit Court of the United States against Tindal and Boyles,
citizens of South Carolina, to recover the possession of certain
real property in the city of Columbia, South Carolina, with
damages for withholding such possession, as well as the value
of the use and occupation of the premises.
The complaint alleged that on the 16th day of February, 1892, the plaintiff purchased from the commissioners of
the sinking fund of South Carolina two certain parcels of
land in the city of Columbia in that State, on one of which
is a building known as Agricultural Hall -the lots being the
same conveyed to the State by deed of J. B. Johnston, dated
April 9, 1883, and duly recorded;
That on the day of the purchase, the premises, by the direction and appointment of the plaintiff, were conveyed by the
commissioners to J. W. Alexander, to hold the same "in trust
for the use of. the plaintiff, his heirs and assigns forever, and
to permit the plaintiff to have and possess the same and to
enjoy the profits,. and in trust to convey the same to the plaintiff, his heirs and assigns, or such person as he might direct
and appoint'";
That upon the request of the plaintiff, J. W. Alexander by
deed .dated the 11th day of February, 1893, conveyed the premises in fee simple to the plaintiff;

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

That the plaintiff "being so possessed thereof, the defendants, on the 20th day of February, 1892, wrongfully entered
into said premises and ousted the plaintiff, and that the
defendants are, and ever since the said 20th day of February, 1892, have been, in possession of said premises and have
been and still are withholding the same from the plaintiff,
although plaintiff has demanded from the defendants the possession thereof, to the damage of the plaintiff ten thousand
dollars" ; and
That the value of the use and occupation of the premises
was at least twenty-five hundred dollars per annum.
The plaintiff demanded judgment against the defendants
for the possession of the premises; for ten thousand dollars,
as damages for withholding the same; for the value of the
use and occupation of the premises after February 20, 1892,
at the rate of twenty-five hundred dollars per annum; and for
the costs and disbursements of the action.
The defendant Tindal answered, and for his first defence
denied each and every allegation of the complaint. For a
second defence he alleged that on the 20th day of February, 1892, he was, and thereafter continued to be, and was at
the bringing of this 'action, the secretary of state of South
Carolina; that the premises described in the complaint on the
above date were, and thereafter continued to be, and now are,
the property of the State, in its possession, and in actual publie use; and that he "has no right, title, interest or estate to
or in the said premises, of any kind whatever, but that in pursuance of law the same is in the custody of this defendant as
said secretary of state."
The defendant Boyles made the same defences as his codefendant Tindal, and further alleged that he had "no right,
title, interest or estate of any kind to or in the said premises,
but that by the employment of the said J. E. Tindal as secretary of state, this defendant has been and now is engaged,
on behalf of the said State, in watching, guarding and taking
care of the said premises."
The jury found for the plaintiff the possession of the land
described in the complaint and judgment for such possession

TINDAL v. WESLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

was entered in his favor. This was followed by an execution
commanding the United States marshal or his deputies to
deliver possession of the property to the plaintiff.
That judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. Tindal v. Wesley, 25 U. S. App. 124. The case
is in this court upon writ of certiorari directed to that
court.
1. The bill of exceptions shows that W. H. Lyles was a
witness on behalf of the plaintiff, and while under crossexamination gave the following testimony:
"Q. You and Mr. Muller went out of the state treasurer's
office and almost immediately returned. Now what occurred
between the state treasurer on the one hand and Mr. Muller
and yourself on the other? A. We returned within five
minutes, I think within two minutes. We called the state
treasurer's attention to the fact that the bond, which had
been delivered by us for Alexander, contained a clause which
authorized him to anticipate it at any time, and we told him,
on behalf of Mr. Alexander, we desired to pay that bond
and mortgage immediately. We then drew out the revenue
bond scrip, known as the Blue Ridge Railroad scrip, which
we counted out to the amount of a few cents or dollars in
excess of the amount due on the bond and mortgage from its
date up to the date of this transaction, and we told Dr. Bates
we tendered him that in payment of the bond and mortgage.
We demanded no receipt, we demanded nothing. Q. And
it was refused? A. Yes, the advertisement was not referred
to. Q. Was it not the purpose of the transaction to create
an issue in the United States court, in order to test the validity of the revenue bond scrip, was not that the object of the
purchase? A. The object of the purchase from the beginning was to create an issue as to the validity of the revenue
bond scrip, but as to the United States Circuit Court we
were not
Q. Then when you bought it you did not intend
to pay for it in good money? A. We did, and considered the
scrip as good money. Q. When you made the purchase, you
made it with a view of compelling the State to take the
deferred payment of it in revenue bond scrip? A. Yes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Q. Did you happen to know whether the revenue bond scrip
had any value in the market? A. I don't know. Q. It has
not? A . I don't know that it has. Q. Very little if any?
A. Yes. Q. You know Alexander? A. Yes, I have never
seen him personally. Q. Do you know him as a poor man?
A. Yes. Q. He and Mr. Wesley had no use for this property that you know of except to create the issue to which you
have referred? A. That was the sole object for which it
was purchased. Mr. Wesley regarded the property as worth
the money, and even if he had to pay he would not lose the
money. Q. Mr. Wesley holds a large block of revenue bond
scrip? A. Yes."
The court excluded this testimony and the defendants duly
excepted to its ruling. That ruling is the subject of one of
the assignments of error.
It is'claimed that the excluded testimony tended to show
that Alexander and Wesley intended, from the outset, to
make the payment of the deferred instalments of purchase
money in "revenue bond scrip, known as Blue Ridge Railroad
scrip"; that by the terms of the contract the purchaser was
entitled to anticipate the payment of the deferred purchase
money; and that as soon as Alexander receiveQ, the alleged
conveyance from the commissioners of the sinking fund he
attempted to discharge the bond and mortgage given to secure
the unpaid purchase money by tendering in payment "revenue
bond scrip." But all this Was immaterial under the issue in
this case as to the right of possession of the premises. If the
legal title passed by a valid deed from the commissioners of
the sinking fund then the right of the grantee to possession
was not impaired by the circumstance that he intended to
insist upon paying the deferred instal'ments of purchase money

in revenue bond scrip. Whether he was entitled to make payment in such scrip was a question to be finally determined
when suit was brought to foreclose the mortgage given to
secure the payment of the balance of the purchase price.
But the possibility or even certainty that such a dispute
would arise constituted no reason for refusing possession if
the conveyance to Alexander was valid and passed the legal

TINDAL v. WESLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

title, without any reservation by the grantors of the right to
retain possession until the whole purchase price was paid.
Throughout the argument of counsel for defendants it is
assumed that the purpose on the part of both Alexander and
Wesley to tender revenue bond scrip in payment of the deferred instalments was, in itself, a fraud that entitled the commissioners of the sinking fund to withhold possession after
conveying the legal title. We cannot concur in this view.
If under the law of the State the scrip referred to could be
used in meeting any obligations due to it, how could it be
regarded as a fraud to do what the law allowed to be done?
Nor was it, in any legal sense, a fraud for Alexander or Wesley to form the purpose of tendering such scrip in payment
in order that there might be a judicial determination of the
question of its validity. If the deed had been obtained under
assurances that the deferred instalments of purchase price
should be paid in money and not in revenue bond scrip, it
may be that the commissioners, in a proper proceeding, could
have obtained a rescission of the contract.
But upon that
point it is unnecessary to express an opinion, as no such case
is presented by the record. The case here is one in which the
excluded testimony does not tend to show anything more than
that Alexander and, perhaps, Wesley, did not during the negotiations for the property or before the deed was obtained,
disclose to the commissioners their purpose to use revenue
bond scrip, if it could be done, in paying the deferred instalments of purchase money.
The plaintiff insists that the question of fraud or no fraud
in the alleged purchase from the commissioners of the sinking fund is not a question in which the defendants have any
concern, and could only be raised by the State in a proceeding
to which it was a party. We need not stop to consider this
question, because we are of opinion that in no view of the case
arising upon this record was error committed in excluding so
much of the testimony of Lyles as is set forth in the bill of
exceptions.
2. At the close of the testimony in the Circuit Court the
defendants raised the question whether this suit was not, in
voL. CLXVII-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

effect, one against the State, of which the court was prohibited
from taking cognizance by the clause of the Constitution declaring that "the judicial power of the United States shall
not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States by
citizens of another State, or by citizens or subjects of any
foreign State." Eleventh Amendment. The Circuit Court
held that the suit was not one against the State, and that
view was approved by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
It is not claimed, nor could it be claimed, that the commissioners of the sinking fund were without authority to
sell the lands in controversy. By an act of the general assembly of the State, approved December 24, 1890, the commissioners were authorized to sell and convey all the right,
title and interest of the State (the same being a title in fee
simple) in the building in the city of Columbia, with the lot
on which it stands, known as Agricultural Hall; and by the
General Statutes of South Carolina it was made their duty to
sell and convey, for and in behalf of the State, all such real
and personal property of the State as was not in actual public
use, the sales to be made from time to time, in such manner,
and upon such terms, as they may deem most advantageous
to the State. Acts of S. C. 1890, 707; Gen. Stat. S. C. 1882,
28, c. 5, ยง 63; 1 Rev. Stat. S. C. 35, ยง 85. It is true that by
an act approved December 24, 1892, the above act of December 24, 1890, was repealed so far as it authorized and provided
for the sale of the lot and building known as Agricultural
Hall and the appropriation of the proceeds to Clemson College, and it was provided that if that property had not then
been sold and conveyed it should remain unsold, and if sold
that the proceeds of sale should be covered into the treasury
for the benefit of the State. Acts S. C. 1892, 88. But, as
already stated, the sale and conveyance by the commissioners
occurred before the passage of the repealing act, and were,
therefore, not affected by it.
The parties stipulated that the testimony to be printed in
the record should be the evidence given by W. ff. Lyles,
W. T. C. Bates and J. E. Tindal. But no part of the testi-

TINDAL v. WESLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

mony is made a part of the record by a bill of exceptions,
except the above questions and answers in the testimony of
Lyles. It must therefore be assumed from the record that
the plaintiff prior to the bringing of this action had acquired
from the commissioners the legal title to the premises in dispute, and was entitled to possession. The bill of exceptions
presents no question as to the genuineness or the execution
and delivery of the deed to Alexander conveying the premises
in trust for Wesley; and in support of the verdict it must be
taken that the conveyance referred to in the complaint as
having been made by the commissioners of the sinking fund
to Alexander was, in fact, properly executed and delivered to
the grantee, and that, as alleged in the complaint, Alexander
conveyed to Wesley in 1893.
But it appears from the statutes of South Carolina that the
secretary of state has charge of all the property of the State,
the care and custody of which is not otherwise provided for
by law. Gen. Stat. S. C. 1882, 27, c. 5, ยง 60; 1 Rev. Stat.
S. C. 34, ยง 82. He admits in his answer that the property in
controversy is in his custody. Boyles, under the employment
of the secretary of state, watches, guards and takes care of
it. They are, therefore, in possession within the meaning of
the general rule that ejectment will not lie against a person
out of possession. Tyler on Ejectment, 411; Pope v. Pendergrast, 1 A. K. Marsh. 122. The defendants are the actual
occupants of the premises. The contention, therefore, of the
plaintiffs in error is that the Circuit Court erred in not holding, as it was asked to do, that, they, having no personal interest in the property and being only custodians of it on
behalf of the State, a suit to dispossess them and to give possession to the plaintiff was, in effect, a suit against the State.
Of course, it was competent for the defendants to prove
that the lots in question belonged to the State, and in that way
defeat the present action. So it would have been competent
for the State, if it claimed the property, to have intervened,
and, submitting, to the jurisdiction of the court, to have
obtained a judicial determination of the claim asserted for
it by the defendants. But it did not intervene. It refused to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

do so. It appears from South Carolina v. Wesley, 155 U. S.
542, 545, that the State, by its attorney general, suggested to
the court that these lands were held, occupied and possessed by
the State through and by its officer and agent, and were used
for public purposes; and "without submitting the rights of
the State to the jurisdiction of the court, but respectfully
insisting that the court has no jurisdiction of the subject in
controversy," it moved that the proceedings be dismissed.
That motion was overruled and a writ of error sued out by
the State was dismissed, the Chief Justice observing: "The
State does not complain that it was refused leave to intervene,
but that the Circuit Court, without the intervention of the
State, refused merely upon suggestion to dismiss the complaint against the defendants who were sued as individuals.
The State was not a party to the record in the Circuit Court
and did not become a party by intervention, pro interesse suo
or otherwise, but expressly refused to submit its rights to the
jurisdiction of the court. This being so, the motion to dismiss
may well be sustained on that ground. United States v. Lee,
106 U. S. 196, i97; Georgia v. Jesup, 106 U. S. 458."
So that the question is directly presented, whether an action
brought against individuals to recover the possession of land
of which they have actual possession. and control, is to be
deemed an action against the State within the meaning of
the Constitution, simply because those individuals claim to
be in rightful possession as officers or agents of the State, and
assert title and right of possession in the State. Can the court,
in such an action, decline to inquire whether the plaintiff is,
in law, entitled to possession, and whether the individual
defendants have any right, in law, to withhold possession ?
And if the court finds, upon due inquiry, that the plaintiff is,
entitled to possession, and that the assertion by the defendants of right of possession and title in the State is without
legal foundation, may it not, as between the plaintiff and the
defendants, adjudge that the plaintiff recover possession?
We are of opinion that the principles announced by this
court in cases heretofore decided furnish an answer to these
questions.

TINDAL v. WESLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

The leading case upon the subject is United States v. Lee,
106 U. S. 196. It is true that the question there presented
was whether the suit was one against the United States within
the recognized rule that the Government without its consent
cannot be sued directly in any court by original process as a
defendant. But it cannot be doubted that the question whether
a particular suit is one against the State, within the meaning
of the Constitution, must depend upon the same principles
that determine whether a particular suit is one against the
United States.
What was the case of United States v. Lee ? By direction
,of the Executive Department of the Government proceeding,
as was supposed, under legislative authority, Kaufman and
Strong, as officers and agents of the United States, held pos,session of certain real estate in Virginia known as Arlington,
and constituting a National Cemetery in which were interred
the remains of Union soldiers. An action was brought by
Lee in a Circuit Court of the United States against Kaufman
and Strong to recover possession. The action proceeded upon
the ground that the legal title and right of possession were in
the plaintiff. The Attorney General of the United States,
without submitting the rights of the Government to the jurisdiction of the court, suggested in writing that the property
in dispute was held, occupied and possessed by the United
States as a military station, through its officers and agents
having actual possession for the Government, but without
any personal interest in it; and, therefore, that the court had
no jurisdiction of the subject of the controversy. Upon these
grounds he moved that all further proceedings be stayed and
dismissed. The motion was denied. The same question was
raised by the answers of Kaufman and Strong. There was a
verdict and judgment against the defendants.
Although the result of the trial of that case was to show
that the -plaintiff had title to the premises, and that what was
set up by the defendants on behalf of the United States was
no title at all, it was contended that the court could render
no judgment against the defendants. That there may be no
doubt as to what was determined, we give the language of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the court stating the question presented for its consideration:
"The case before us is a suit against Strong .-and Kaufman as

individuals, to recover p 6 ssession of property. The suggestion
was made that it was the property of the United States, and
that the court, without inquiring into the truth of this suggestion, should proceed no further; and in this case, as in that
[United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115], after a judicial inquiry had made it clear that the property belonged to plaintiff
and not to the United States, we are still asked to forbid the
court below to proceed further, and to reverse and set aside
what it has done, and thus refuse to perform the duty of deciding suits properly brought before us by citizens of the
United States."
After a full examination of the principles upon which rested
the exemption of Government from suit by individuals, and
observing that in view of the essential differences between
the American and English Governments, in respect' of the
source and depositaries of power, the decisions of the English
courts on this subject were entitled to but little weight, this
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said That an "examination of the cases in this court establishes
clearly this result: that the proposition that when an individual is sued in regard to property which he holds as officer or
agent of the United States, his possession cannot be disturbed
when that fact is brought to the attention of the court, has
been overruled and denied in every case where it has been
necessary to decide it, and that in many others where the
record shows that the case as tried below actually and clearly
presented that defepce, it was neither urged by counsel nor
cqnsidered by the court here, though, if it had been a good
defence, it would have avoided the necessity of a long inquiry
into plaintiff's title and of other perplexing questions, and
have quickly disposed of the case. And we see no escape
from the conclusion that during all this period the court has
held the principle to be unsound, and in the class of cases like
the present, represented by Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498;
Brown. v. iluger, 21 How. 305, and Grisar v. McDowell, 6
Wall. 363, it was not thought necessary to reexamine a propo-

TINDAL v. WESLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

sition so often and so clearly overruled in previous wellconsidered decisions"; and
That, "conceding that the property in controversy in this
case is devoted to a proper public use, and that this has been
done by those having authority to establish a cemetery and
a fort, the verdict of the jury finds that it is and was the
private property of the plaintiff, and was taken without any
process of law and without any compensation. Undoubtedly
those provisions of the Constitution are of that character
which it is intended the courts shall enforce, when cases involving their operation and effect are brought before them.
The instances in which the life and liberty of the citizen have
been protected by the judicial writ of habeas corpus are too
familiar to need citation, and many of these cases, indeed
almost all of them, are those in which life or liberty was invaded by persons assuming to act under the authority of the
Government. Ev parte -lilligan,4 Wall. 2. If this constitutional provision is a sufficient authority for the court to
interfere to rescue a prisoner from the hands of those holding
him under the asserted authority of the Government, what
reason is there that the same courts shall not give remedy
to the citizen whose property has been seized without due
process of law, and devoted to public use without just compensation ?."
Upon the general proposition that the possession by officers,
on behalf of the United States, of property claimed by a citizen, is sufficient of itself to protect those officers against suit
by that citizen to recover possession, the court said: "Looking at the question upon principle, and apart from the authority of adjudged cases, we think it still clearer that this branch
of the defence cannot be maintained. It seems to be opposed
to all the principles upon which the rights of the citizen, when
brought in collision with the acts of the Government, must be
determined. In such cases there is no safety for the citizen,
except in the protection of the judicial tribunals, for rights
which have been invaded by the officers of the Government,
professing to act in its name. There remains to him but the
alternative of resistance, which may amount to crime. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

position assumed here is that, however clear his rights, no
remedy can be afforded to him when it is seen that his opponent is an officer of the United States, claiming to act under
its authority; for, as Mr. Chief Justice Marshall says, to examine whether this authority is rightfully assumed is the exercise of jurisdiction, and must lead to the decision of the merits
of the question. The objection of the plaintiffs in error necessarily forbids any inquiry into the truth of the assumption
that the parties setting up such authority are lawfully pos,,sessed of it; for the argument is that the formal suggestion
of the existence of such authority forbids any inquiry into the
truth of the suggestion. But why should not the truth of the
suggestion and the lawfulness of the authority be made the subject of judicial investigation? In the case supposed, the court
has before it a plaintiff capable of suing, a defendant who has
no personal exemption from suit, and a cause of action cognizable in the court -a case within the meaning of that term,
as employed in the Constitution and defined by the decisions
of this court. It is to be presumed in favor of the jurisdiction
of the court that the plaintiff may be able to prove the right
which he asserts in his declaration. What is that right as established by the verdict of the jury in this case? It is the
right to the possession of the homestead of the plaintiff. A
right to recover that which has been taken from him by force
and violence, and detained by the strong hand. This right
being clearly established, we are told that the court can proceed no further, because it appears that certain military officers,
acting under the orders of the President, have seized this estate and converted one part of it into a military fort and
another into a cemetery.' Assuming, upon the record before
the court, that the President had no lawful authority to place
o.fficers of the Government in possession of the property in
.question, and that Congress could not give him any such authority except upon making just compensation, the court said:
"The defence stands here solely upon the absolute immunity
from judicial inquiry of every one who asserts authority from
the executive branch of the Government, however clear it may
be that the executive possessed no such power. Not only no

TINDAL v. WESLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

such power is given, but it is absolutely prohibited, both to
the executive and the legislature, to deprive any one of life,
liberty or property without due process of law, or to take private property without just compensation. These provisions
for the security of the rights of the citizen stand in the Constitution in the same connection and upon the same ground, as
they regard his liberty and his property. It cannot be denied
that both were intended to be enforced by the judiciary as one
of the departments of the Government established by the Constitution. As we have already said, the writ of habeas corpus
has been often used to defend the liberty of the citizen, and
even his life, against the assertion of unlawful authority on
the part of the executive and the legislative branches of the
Government. See Ew parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2; Kilbourn v.
Thompson, 103 U. S. 168. No man in this country is so high
that he is above the law. No officer of the law may set that
law at defiance with impunity. All the officers of the Government, from the highest to the lowest, are creatures of the law,
and are bound to obey it." Again : "Shall it be said, in the
face of all this, and of the acknowledged right of the judiciary
to decide in proper cases statutes which have been passed by
both branches of Congress and approved by the President to
be unconstitutional, that the courts cannot give a remedy
when the citizen has been deprived of his property by force,
his estate seized and converted to the use of the Government
without lawful authority, without process of law and without
compensation, because the President has ordered it and his
officers are in possession? If such be the law of this country,
it sanctions a tyranny which has no existence in the monarchies
of Europe, nor in any other government which has a just
claim to well-regulated liberty and the protection of personal
rights. It cannot be, then, that when, in a suit between two
citizens for the ownership of real estate, one of them has established his right to the possession of the property according
to all the forms of judicial procedure, and by the verdict of a
jury and the judgment of the court, the wrongful possessor
can, say successfully to the court, Stop here, I hold by order
of the President, and the progress of justice must be stayed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

That, though the nature of the controversy is one peculiarly
appropriate to the judicial function, though the United States
is no party to the suit, though one of the three great branches
of the Government to which by the Constitution this duty has
been assigned has declared its judgment after a fair trial, the
unsuccessful party can interpose an absolute veto upon that
judgment by the production of an order of the Secretary of
War, which that officer had no more authority to make than
the humblest private citizen."
We have made these extracts from the opinion of the court
in the Lee case because the reasons there assigned for the conclusion reached control the determination of the present case.
If a suit by an individual against individuals to recover the
possession of property is not a suit against the United States
merely by reason of possession being held by the defendants
as agents of the United States and under title asserted to be
in the Government, we cannot perceive how the present suit
can be regarded as one against the State merely because the
defendants assert a right of possession in the State through
them as its officers and agents.
The essential principles of the Lee case have not been departed from by this court, but have been recognized and
enforced in recent cases.
In Cunningham v. -lMacon & Brunswick Railroad,109
U. S.
446, 452, the court, referring to the cases in which an individual, sued for tort committed upon person or property,
defends upon the ground that he acted as an officer of the
Government, and in which he must show that his authority
was sufficient in law to protect him, said: "To this class of
cases belongs also the recent case of United States V. Lee,
106 U. S. 196, for the action of ejectment in that case is, in
its essential character, an action of trespass, with the power
in the court to restore the possession to the plaintiff as part
of the judgment. And the defendants, Strong and Kaufman,
being sued individually as trespassers, set up their authority
as officers of the United States, which this court held to be
unlawful, and therefore insufficient as a defence. The judgment in that case did not conclude the United States, as the

TINDAL v. WESLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

opinion carefully stated, but held the officers liable as unauthorized trespassers, and turned them out of their unlaw.ful possession."
Stanley v. Schwalby, 147 U. S. 508, 518, was an action of
trespass to try title brought in a state court against individuals to recover possession of certain lands. The defendants
asserted a right of possession in themselves as officers of the
United States which, they alleged, had title and right of possession. Referring to the cases in which an individual was
sued in tort for some act injurious to another in regard to
person or property, in which the defence was that he acted
under the orders of the Government, this court, speaking by
the Chief Justice, said: "In these cases he is. not sued as an
officer of the Government, but as an individual, and the court
is not ousted of jurisdiction because he asserts the authority
of such officer. To make out that defence he must show that
his authority was sufficient in law to protect him. In this
class is included United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, where
the action of ejectment was held to be in its essential character an action of trespass, with the power in the court to
restore the possession to the plaintiff as part of the judgment,
and the defendants, Strong and Kaufman, being sued individually as trespassers, set up their authority as officers of
the United States, which this court held to be unlawful,
and therefore insufficient as a defence." See also Stanley v.
Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255, 271; Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S.10.
The cases in this court in which it has been necessary to
consider the meaning and scope of the Eleventh Amendment
are quite numerous. In Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S.
1, 10, the opinion in which case was delivered by Mr. Justice
Lanr, the cases previously decided were examined, and were
held to belong to two classes. The first class, he said, "is
where the suit is brought against the officers of the State,
as representing the State's action and liability, thus making
it, though not a party to the record, the real party against
which the judgment will so operate as to compel it to specfiIn re Ayres, 123 U. S.
cally perform its contracts" -citing
443; Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U. S.711; Antoni v. Greenhow,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

107 U. S. 769; Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick Railroad,
109 U. S. 446, and Hlagood v. Southern, 117 [J. S. 52. The
other class, the court said, "is where a suit is brought against
defendants who, claiming to act as officers of the State, and
under the color of an unconstitutional statute, commit acts
of wrong and injury to the rights and property' of the plaintiff acquired under a contract with the State. Such suit,
whether brought to recover money or property in the hands
of such defendants, unlawfully taken by them in behalf of
the State, or for compensation in damages, or, in a proper
case where the remedy at law is inadequate, for an injunction to prevent such wrong and injury, or for a mandamus,
in a like case, to enforce upon the defendant the performance
of a plain, legal duty, purely ministerial -is not, within the
meaning of the Eleventh Amendment, an action against the
State " - citing Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738;
Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203; Tomlinson v. Branch, 15 Wall.
460; Litchfield v. Webster County, 101 U. S. 773;.Allen v.
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 114 U. S.311; Board of Liquidation v. iiIo Comb, 92 U. S. 531; Poindexter v. Greenhow,.
114 U. S. 270.
And in in re Tyler, 149 U. S.164, 190, the Chief Justice,
referring to the review in Pennoyer v. McConnaughy of previous cases, said: "The result was correctly stated to be that
where a suit is brought against defendants who claim to act
as officers of a State and, under color of an unconstitutional
statute, commit acts of wrong and injury to the property of
the plaintiff, to recover money or property in their hands unlawfully taken by them in behalf of the State; or, for compensation for damages; or, in a proper case, for an injunction
to prevent such wrong and injury; or, for a mandamus in a
like case to enforce the performance of a plain, legal duty,
purely ministerial; such suit is not, within the meaning of
the amendment, an action against the State." In the recent
case of Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58, 68, the principle was
again announced, Mr. Justice Shiras delivering the opinion,
that a suit against individuals, ".who claim to act as officers of
a State, and, under color of an unconstitutional statute, corn-

TINDAL v. WESLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

mit acts of wrong and injury to the property of the plaintiff,.
to recover money or property in their hands unlawfully taken
by them in behalf of the State, or for compensation for damages, is not, within the meaning of the Constitution, an action
against the State."
The adjudged cases, in principle, determine the one before
us. The settled doctrine of this court wholly precludes the
idea that a suit against individuals to recover possession of
real property is a suit against the State simply because the
defendant holding possession happens to be an officer of the
State and asserts that he is lawfully in possession on its behalf.
We may repeat here what was said by Chief Justice Marshall,
delivering the unanimous judgment of this court in United
States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115, 139: "It certainly can never be
alleged that a mere suggestion of title in a State to property,
in possession of an individual, must arrest the proceedings of
the court, and prevent their looking into the suggestion, and
examining the validity of the title." Whether the one or the
other party is entitled in law to possession is a judicial, not an
executive or legislative, question. It does not cease to be a
judicial question because the defendant claims that the right
of possession is in the Government of which he is an officer or
agent. The case here is not one in which judgment is asked
against the defendants as officers of the State, nor one in
which the plaintiff seeks to compel the specific performance
by the State of any contract alleged to have been made by it,
nor to enforce the discharge by the defendants of any specific
duty enjoined by the State. Nor is it one, like Cunningham
v. Macon & Brunswick Railroad,above cited, in which the
plaintiff seeks to enforce a lien upon real estate in the actual
possession of and claimed by the State, where a decree of sale
would be fruitless, as no title could be given to the purchaser
without the presence of the State as a party to the proceeding.
It is a suit against individuals - a case in which the plaintiff
seeks merely the possession of certain real estate once belonging to the State, but which the complaint alleges has become
his property, and which, according to the verdict of the jury
and the judgment of the court thereon must, on this record,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

be taken to belong absolutely to him. The withholding of
such possession by defendants is consequently a wrong, but a
wrong which, according to the view of counsel, cannot be
remedied if the defendants chose to assert that the State, by
them as its agents, is in rightful possession. The doors of the
courts of justice are thus closed against one legally entitled to
possession, by the mere assertion of the defendants that they
are entitled to possession for the State. But the Eleventh
Amendment gives no immunity to officers or agents of a
State in withholding the property of a citizen without authority of law. And when such officers or agents assert that they
are in rightful possession, they must make good that assertion
when it is made to appear in a suit against them as individuals that the legal title and right of possession is in the plaintiff. If a suit against officers of a State to enjoin them from
enforcing an unconstitutional statute, whereby the plaintiff's
property will be injured, or to recover damages for taking
under a void statute the property of the citizen, be not one
against the State, it is impossible to see how a suit against
the same individuals to recover the possession of property
belonging to the plaintiff and illegally withheld by the defendants can be deemed a suit against the State. Any other
view leads to this result: That if a State, by its officers, acting under a void statute, should seize for public use the property of a citizen, without making or securing just compensation
for him, and thus violate the constitutional provision declaring
that no State shall deprive any person of property without due
process of law, Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroadv. Chicago,
166 U. S. 226, 236, 241, the citizen is remediless so long as the
State, by its agents, chooses to hold his property; for, according to the contention of the defendants, if such agents are sued
as individuals, wrongfully in possession, they can bring about
the dismissal of the suit by simply informing the court of the
official character in which they hold the property thus illegally
appropriated. It is true that even in such a case the citizen
may, if he choose, rely upon the good faith of the State in the
matter of compensation. But he is not compelled to part with
his property for public use except upon the terms prescribed

TINDAL v. WESLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

by the supreme law of the land, namely, upon just compensation made or secured.
It is said that the judgment in this case may conclude the
State. Not so. It is a judgment to the effect only that, as
between the plaintiff and the defendants, the former is entitled
to possession of the property in question, the latter having
shown no valid authority to withhold possession from the.
plaintiff; that the assertion by the defendants of a right to
remain in possession is without legal foundation. The State
not being a party to the suit, the judgment will not conclude
it. Not having submitted its rights to the determination of
the court in this case, it will be open to the State to bring any
action that may be appropriate to establish and protect whatever claim it has to the premises in dispute. Its claim, if it
means to assert one, will thus be brought to the test of the
law as administered by tribunals ordained to determine controverted rights of property ; and the record in this case will
not be evidence against it for any purpose touching the merits
of its claim. It was insisted in United States v. Lee, in support of the contention there made, that a judgment in favor
of Lee against the persons who, as agents of the United States,
held possession of Arlington would be in effect a judgment
against the United States. But this court said: "Another
consideration is, that since the United States cannot be made
a defendant to a suit concerning its property, and no judgment
in any suit against an individual who has possession or control
of such property can bind or conclude the Government, as is
decided by this court in the. case of Carr v. United States, 98
U. S. 433, already referred to, the Government is always at
liberty, notwithstanding any such judgment, to avail itself of
all the remedies which the law allows to every person, natural
or artificial, for the vindication and assertion of its rights.
Hence, taking the present case as an illustration, the United
States may proceed by a bill in chancery to quiet its title, in
aid of which, if a proper case is made, a writ of injunction
may be obtained. Or it may bring an action of ejectment,
in which, on a direct issue between the United States as
plaintiff and the present plaintiff as defendant, the title of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

United States could be judicially determined. Or, if satisfied
that its title has been shown to be invalid, and it still desires
to use the property, or any part of it, for the purposes to which
it is now devoted, it may purchase such property by fair negotiation, or condemn it by a judicial proceeding, in which a
just compensation shall be ascertained and paid according to
the Constitution." 106 U. S. 222.
We are of opinion that this suit is not one against the State
within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment; and as the
record before us shows that the plaintiff owns the premises
and is entitled to possession as against the defendants, the
judgment must be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN BELL TELEPHONE

COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 344. Argued November 9, 10, 11, 1896. -Decided

May 10, 1897.

If an application has been made for a patent for an invention, and the applicant has once called for action, he cannot be deprived of any benefits
which flow from the ultimate action of the tribunal, although that tribunal may unnecessarily, negligently or even wantonly, if that supposition
were admissible, delay its judgment.
Maxwell Land Grant case, 121 U. S. 325, affirmed and followed to the point
that a suit between individuals to set aside an instrument for fraud can
only be sustained when the testimony in respect to the fraud is clear,
unequivocal and convincing, and cannot be done upon a bare preponderance of evidence which leaves the issue in doubt; and that if this be
the settled rule in respect to suits between individuals it is much more
so when the Government attempts to set aside its solemn patent: and if
this is true when the suit is to set aside a patent for land, which conveys
for all time the title, a fortiori it must be true when the suit is one to set
aside a patent for an invention which only grants a temporary right.
The case which the counsel for appellant presents may be summed up in
these words: The application for this patent was duly filed. The Patent
Office after the filing had full jurisdiction over the procedure; the applicant had no control over its action. We have been unable to offer a syllable of testimony tending to show that the applicant ever in any way
corrupted or attempted to corrupt any of the officials of the department.

