PARSONS v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y.

447

Statement of the Case.

want of power in the courts of the District of Columbia to
suppress an answer of parties defendant, and after so doing to
render a decreepTro confesso as in case of default for want of
an answer, we must not be considered as implying that we
think the purchasers of the bonds under the circumstances disclosed by the record took them subject in any way to the lis
pendens created between the actual parties to the controversy
arising from the suit, or that such purchasers were or could
be in any way bound by the result of that litigation.
Judgment afirmed.

PARSONS v. CHICAGO AND NORTHWESTERN
RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 198. Argued March 8, 9, 1897.- Decided May 24, 189T.

The right of a shipper of goods over a railway, who pays to the railroad
company reasonable rates for the transportation of the goods to the place
of destination, to recover from such company the excess of such payment
over the rates charged to shippers of similar goods to the same destination
from another place of shipment of the same or greater distance from it,
is a right growing out of the interstate commerce act; and, being in the
nature of a penalty, can be enforced only by strict proof, showing clearly
and directly the violations complained of.
The portion of a through rate received by one of several railway-companies
transporting the goods as interstate commerce, may be less'than its local
rate.
The only right of recovery given by the interstate commerce act to the
individual, is to the ." person or persons injured thereby for the full
amount of damages sustained in consequence of any of the violations of
the provisions of this act" ; and before any party can recover under the
act, he must show, not merely the wrong of the carrier, but that that
wrong has operated to his injury.

THIs was an action commenced by the plaintiff in error,
plaintiff below, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Iowa to recover of the defendant
fifteen hundred and fifty dollars on account of alleged vio-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

lations of the interstate commerce act. An amended and
substituted petition was filed which, in five counts, stated
plaintiff's causes of action. To this the defendant demurred,
and the demurrer having been sustained judgment was entered
in its favor. The plaintiff took the case to the Court of
Appeals of the Eighth Circuit, by which court the judgment
was affirmed. 27 U. S. App. 394. Thereupon the case was
brought here on writ of error.
The first count alleged facts which, as claimed, show that
the defendant had such relations to the Fremont, Elkhorn
and Missouri Valley Railroad Company and the Sioux City
and Pacific Railroad Company that the lines of those railroads, together with that of the defendant, were under a
common control and management, and therefore that the defendant was to be treated for all practical purposes as the
owner of a single line from the points in Nebraska, hereinafter
mentioned, to Chicago. It stated the distances from those
points to Chicago, and also from the places in Iowa along the
lin of defendant's road from which th6 plaintiff made his shipments, these latter distances being substantially less than the
former. Then after a general averment that the Nebraska
rates to Chicago had always theretofore been greater than
the Iowa rates, it alleged that on December 30, 1887, the defendant, for the purpose of giving unlawful preference to the
shippers of corn and oats in Nebraska, and to unlawfully
discriminate against the plaintiff and other shippers of corn
and oats in Iowa, put in force from Nebraska points a certain
freight tariff upon corn and oats, in words and figures following:
"C. & N. W., G. F. D. No. 2927, superseding G. F. D. No.
2724, F., E. & M. V. and S. C. & P. G. F. D. 949 and G. F. D.
No. 859 of 1887.
"Chicago and North Western Railway, Fremont, Elkhorn
and Missouri Valley and Sioux City and Pacific Railway.
"Joint tariff on corn and oats in carloads, taking effect
December 30, 1887, to Rochelle, Ill., when destined to New
York, Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore.

PAIRSONS v. CHICAGO & NOR THWESTERN R'Y.

449

Statement of the Case.
From

B lair, N eb ............................
K ennard, N eb .........................

Per 100 lbs.

11
11

[IHere follow rates from many other Nebraska points, which
are omitted as immaterial in the case.]
"Prepaid. Way bill through to Rochelle, Ill., via Missouri
Valley, at rates given above. For rates from Rochelle to
Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York and Boston see C. & N.
W. G. F. D. No. 2604, November 25, 1878, amendments or
subsequent issues.
"II. R. McCULLOUGH,
. F R.
"G. I' A., C.&
"K. C. MOREfOUSE,
" G. F. A., S. C. & P. and F. Ec6 M. V. R.'s."
After this it continued :
"Plaintiff avers that said freight tariff was never printed in
type and was never circulated or published at any of the
stations on defendant's road in the State of Iowa, and no copy
thereof was ever filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, as required by law, and the existence of the same was
concealed from the knowledge of plaintiff and of shippers in
the State of Iowa upon the line of defendant's road, and the
benefits and advantages of the rates specified in such tariff
were denied to plaintiff and shippers on the line of defendant's
road in the State of Iowa.
"Plaintiff avers that said special tariff remained in force at
the several stations named therein upon the line of the Fremont, Elkhorn and Missouri Valley Railroad in the State of
Nebraska from December 30, 1887, up to the 1st of February,
1888, and large quantities of corn and oats were shipped during said time upon and over the several roads aforesaid, to
Turner and Rochelle, and thence to Chicago, Ill., at the rates
therein specified, to wit, the sum of 11 cents per 100 pounds
from the stations of Blair and Kennard, Neb.
"Plaintiff avers that between the 30th day of December,
VOL. CLXVII-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case

1887, and the 1st day of February, A.D. 1888, and at the
several dates named in the Schedule No. 2 attached to original petition and made a part of this petition, plaintiff had for
shipment at Correctionville, Iowa, aforesaid, the number of
pounds of corn and oats in said schedule specified, and plaintiff was prevented and deprived by reason of the matters
herein alleged, of the right to ship the same upon the terms
and at the rate given, as aforesaid, to the shippers in the State
of Nebraska; and plaintiff then and there was compelled to
ship and did ship said corn and oats on and over the road of
defendant from said station of Correctionville to Chicago, Ill.,
and defendant then and there demanded and received for said
service the sum of 21. cents per 100 pounds for the transportation of said corn and oats a distance of only 475 miles, the
same being a less distance, and for a like and contemporaneous service over the same line in the same direction,, under
substantially similar circumstances, as the transportation of
corn and oats, as aforesaid, from Blair and Kennard and other
points in Nebraska to Chicago, Ill.
"Plaintiff avers that the fixing of said points of Turner and
Rochelle as the pretended terminus of the shipment of corn
and oats under said special tariff of December 30, 1887, was a
mere device to evade the law. That Turner and Rochelle were
not grain markets and had no elevators or facilities for handling grain, and said grain was intended to be, and was, in fact,
transported by defendant to Chicago, Ill., and was then sold
on the market or delivered' to connecting roads for eastern
seaboard points.
"Plaintiff avers that the charges so made, demanded,
received and collected from plaintiff as aforesaid were unlawful, unreasonable and unjust, and contrary to the provisions of
an act of Congress entitled ' An act to regulate commerce,'
approved February 4, 1887, in that an unlawful preference and
discrimination was practised by defendant in favor of shippers
of grain in the State of Nebraska and against this plaintiff, a
shipper of grain in the State of Iowa, and in that defendant
charged, demanded and received a greater compensation for a
short than for a longer haul in the same direction, over the
A.D.

PARSONS v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y.

451

Statement of the Case.

same line, the shorter being included in the longer haul,
and being for a' like and contemporaneous service in the
transportation of a like traffic under substantially similar
circumstances.
. "Plaintiff avers that the price and value of corn and oats at
the dates of said shipment was at Chicago the price at New
York and other seaboard points, less the freight, and the price
at - in Iowa, was the Chicago price, less the freight, and that
plaintiff was damaged by reason of the premises, in a sum
equal to the difference in the price charged and received by
the defendant and the rate given from Kennard and Blair,
Neb., to wit, the sum of 10 cents per hundred pounds upon
241,710 pounds of corn' and oats, to wit, the sum of 241.71
dollars, for which sum he asks judgment on this count of
his petition, with 6 per cent interest per annum from February 1, 1888."
The next three counts were, so far as any question is involved
in this case, substantially like the first.
The fifth count alleged that the defendant was a common
carrier, engaged in the business of transporting freight over
its line of road in Iowa, Illinois and Nebraska, "and in connection with other railroads in Chicago, east to New York,
Philadelphia, Boston, Baltimore and other seaboard points."
Then, after stating facts showing plaintiff's interest in the
matter, it averred that the defendant "on the 17th day of
February, 1888, at all the stations on the said Fremont, Elkhorn and Missouri Valley Railroad in Nebraska between Blair
and Skull Creek and each of said points, put in force a certain
tariff on corn and oats destined for New York and other seaboard points, whereby it proposed to transport, and did, on
and between said 17th day of February and the first day of
March, A.D. 1888, transport corn and oats from Blair and
other points in Nebraska, on the line of said road, to New
York for 36J cents per 100 pounds, and to Boston for - cents
*per 100 pounds, and to Philadelphia for 34J cents per 100
pounds, and to Baltimore for 331 cents per 100 pounds.
Plaintiff avers that all of said points on the Fremont, Elkhorn and Missouri Valley road were a greater distance from

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

Chicago and from New York and other seaboard points aforesaid than the stations on the defendant's road in the State of
Iowa." It alleged a failure to publish such rates, substantially
.as in the first count, and "that the only rate on corn and oats
made known during February, 1888, to shippers at Iowa points
on defendant's road was a local rate to Chicago and a rate of
27i from Chicago to New York, and a correspondingly high
rate from Chicago to other seaboard points. That said local
rate from Carroll to Chicago was 19 cents per 100 pounds."
And concluded as follows:
"Plaintiff avers that between the 17th day of February
and the 1st day of March, A.D. 1888, and at the several dates
named in Schedules No. 4 attached to original petition and
made a part of this petition, plaintiff had for shipment at
Carroll, Iowa, aforesaid, the number of pounds of corn and
oats in the said schedule described, and plaintiff was prevented and deprived, by reason of the matters herein alleged,
of the right to ship the same upon the terms and at the rates
given to shippers in the State of Nebraska, and plaintiff then
and there was compelled to ship and did ship said corn and
oats on and over the road of defendant from said station
of Carroll to Chicago, Ill., and defendant then and there
demanded and received for said service the sum of 19 cents
per hundred pounds for the transportation of said corn and
oats to Chicago, and subjected said plaintiff to a further
charge of 271 cents per 100 pounds to transport the same
to New York and a like local charge to other seaboard points,
or dispose of the same at Chicago at 27J less per hundred than
the price at New York.
"Plaintiff avers that the charges so made, demanded and
received and collected as aforesaid were unlawful, unreasonable and unjust, and contrary to the provisions of an act of
Congress entitled ' An act to regulate commerce,' approved
February 4, 1887, in that an unlawful preference and discrimination was practised by defendant in favor of shippers
of grain in the State of Nebraska, and against this plaintiff,
a shipper of grain in the State of Iowa, and in that defendant charged and demanded a greater compensation for short

PARSONS v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y.

453

Opinion of the Court.

than for a longer haul in the same direction over the same
line, the shorter being included in the longer haul and being
for a like and contemporaneous service in the transportation
of a like traffic under substantially similar circumstances.
"Plaintiff avers that the price and value of corn and oats
at the dates of said shipments was, at Chicago, the New York
or other seaboard price less the freight, and the price at Carroll,
Iowa, was the Chicago price less the freight, and that plaintiff
was damaged by reason of the premises in a sum equal to the
difference between the aggregate of the two local rates from
Carroll to Chicago and from Chicago to New York, to wit,
46 cents,' and the said sum of 361 cents, the rate given from
said Nebraska points to New York, which difference was the
sum of 10 per 100 pounds on 107,750 pounds of corn and oats
named in Schedule No. 4 aforesaid, for which the plaintiff asks
judgment on this second count of his petition."
Mr. C. C. Nourse for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Lloyd W. Bowers for defendant in error.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney filed a brief on
behalf of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Some preliminary matters deserve notice. The wrongs
charged against the defendant took place in the winter of
1887-1888, and affected other Iowa shippers than the plaintiff. Several actions were brought by such shippers on account thereof, and brought by the counsel for this plaintiff.
Two of such actions were tried before juries, and resulted in
judgments for the plaintiffs. Osborne v. Chicago & Northwestern Railway, 48 Fed. Rep. 49. These judgments were
taken to the Court of Appeals, and in October, 1892, were
reversed and the cases remanded for new trials. 10 U. S.
App. 430. The plaintiffs then applied to this court for a

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

certiorari, 146 U. S. 354, which, on December 5, 1892, was
denied on the ground that there had been no final judgment.
See Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S. 506, 514. Thereafter,
and on December 28, 1892, this amended and substituted petition was filed.*Now it is contended that the Court of Appeals
read into this petition the facts disclosed by the records in
the former cases, and so decided some other case than the one
presented. This is a mistake, though it may be that the court
construed the allegations of this petition in the light of those
facts. And it is not strange that it did so. For, while this
being an action in behalf of a different plaintiff, he is not concluded by the evidence introduced on those trials, can state
other and different facts, and recover on other and distinct
grounds, yet the same acts on the part of the defendant are
made in all the cases the basis of relief. Hence, allegations
in this petition, which are doubtful in their meaning and susceptible of two constructions, may not unfairly be taken as
intended to mean that which the testimony in the former cases
showed were the facts. The course of the litigation makes it
apparent that the purpose was not simply to present a new
case to the same court, but to obtain from a higher court a
construction of the law applicable to the facts. The brief of
counsel, while it points out what is alleged are differences
between the case made in this petition and that established in
the prior cases, also discloses that in his judgment the views
expressed by the Court of Appeals in those cases were wrong,
and that he is seeking the judgment of this court thereon. It
was easy, if counsel intended to present an entirely different
case, to make the averments so positive and distinct as to
clearly distinguish it.
We remark again that there is no averment in this petition
that the rates charged to and paid by the plaintiff were, in
themselves, unreasonable; that is, it is not claimed that the
rates charged for shipping corn from points in Iowa to
Chicago were not fair and reasonable charges for the services
rendered. The burden of the complaint is the partiality and
favoritism shown to places and shippers in Nebraska. The
plaintiff is not seeking to recover money which inequitably

PARSONS v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y. 455
Opinion of the Court.

and without full value given has been taken from him. le
is only seeking to recover money which he alleges is due, not
because of any unreasonable charge, but on account of the
wrongful conduct of the defendant.
Again, his cause of action is based entirely on a statute,
and to enforce what is in its nature a penalty. Suppose that
the officials of the defendant company had charged the plaintiff only a reasonable rate for his personal transportation from
his home in Iowa to Chicago, and at the same time had, without any just occasion therefor, given to his neighbor across
the street free transportation, thus being guilty of an act of
favoritism and partiality- an act which tended to diminish
the receipts of the railroad company, and to that extent the
dividends to its stockholders - such partiality on their part
would not, in the absence of a statute, have entitled the plaintiff to maintain an action for the recovery of the fare which
he had paid, and thus to reduce still further the dividends to
the stockholders. So, but for the provisions of the interstate
commerce act, the' plaintiff could not recover on account of
his shipments to Chicago, if only a reasonable rate was charged
therefor, no matter though it appeared that through any misconduct or partiality on the part of the railway officials shippers in Nebraska had been given a less rate.
It was, among other reasons, in order to avoid the public
injury which had sprung from such conduct on the part of
railway officials that the interstate commerce act was passed,
and violations of its provisions were subjected to penalties of
one kind or another. But it is familiar law that one who is
seeking to recover a penalty is bound by the rule of strict
proof. Before, therefore, the plaintiff can recover of this
defendant for alleged violations of the interstate commerce
act he must make a case showing not by way of inference but
clearly and directly such violations. No violation of statute
is to be presumed. Now, the tariff set out in the first four
counts appears on its face to have been a joint tariff, and
stated the rates to be charged from points of shipment to
Rochelle or Turner on corn shipped to the four cities of New
York, Boston, Philadelphia and Baltimore. It does not pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Cqurt.

port to be the local rate on grain shipped to Rochelle or
Turner, or even to Chicago- the eastern limit of the defendant's road. Nowhere in these counts is there an allegation
as to the through rates from Nebraska or*Iowa points to the
four above-named eastern cities, or to any other place beyond
the eastern terminus of defendant's road. There is nothing,
therefore, to show that the local rate charged plaintiff from
the Iowa place of shipment to Chicago was greater than the
through rate charged from Nebraska to the four places on the
seaboard, or greater than that charged for like shipments from
his place of shipment to the same four places. No figures as
to the through rate are given ; no averments as to its relation
to the local rates on the detendant's road, whether from
Nebraska or Iowa to Chicago. So that if we regard this
tariff as being (what on its face it purports to be) a joint tariff,
there is no violation of the fourth section of the interstate
commerce act, the one containing the long and short haul
clause.
But it is said that there is an averment that the fixing or
naming of Turner and Rochelle as the pretended termini of the
shipments of corn and oats under the special tariff was a mere
device to evade the law; that they were not grain markets,
and had no elevators or facilities for handling grain, and that
the grain was intended to be, and was in fact, transported by
the defendant to Chicago, and there sold on the market or
delivered to connecting roads for eastern points. It is this
averment which introduces some uncertainty into the case.
For if there had been no agreement between the defendant
and. eastern companies, and no through rates established
thereby from Nebraska to the four places named, and this
putting forth of the so-called joint tariff was a mere device,
under color of which the defendant was shipping grain over
its own lines from Nebraska to Chicago only, at less rates
than were charged to the nearer points in Iowa, there would
have been a violation of the long and short haul clause. But
the trouble is the pleader does not distinctly make such a case.
He does not allege that there was not such an agreement
between the defendant and eastern roads, that there was

PARSONS v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y.

457

Opinion of the Court.

not such a joint tariff established, that the grain shipped from
Nebraska was not shipped on such tariff, or that the tariff
was itself a pretence. He does say that the naming of, the
points Turner and Rochelle, as termini of the shipment, was
a mere device to evade the law, but what evasion, or how it
operated to make the evasion, is not indicated. It is true he
says that the grain was intended to be, and was in fact, transported by the defendant to Chicago. But it must have been
so transported if it was shipped- to the termini named in the
joint tariff. It is true also that he alleges that when transported to Chicago the grain was sold on the market or delivered to connecting roads for eastern seaboard points. But
which, he does not advise us. If the former, that might
happen by the shipper's intercepting at Chicago a shipment
made under the joint tariff through to one of the four eastern
points; if the latter, it would necessarily occur if the shipment was under such tariff. So the former is consistent with
and the latter implies the joint tariff. Neither makes certain
any violation of the long and short haul clause. On the contrary, the plain implication of the averments of these counts
is that there was such a joint tariff (indeed, it is alleged that
it was never printed in type, was not circulated or published
at any of the stations on defendant's road in Iowa, and no
copy thereof filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission,
as required by law ; and also that it remained in force up to
February 1, 1888, and that the corn shipped from Nebraska
was shipped on that tariff); and further, that the ground of
complaint is not that it did not exist, but that it was not
published in Iowa; that plaintiff was not informed and did
not know of its existence, and therefore did not get the benefit of it, but shipped his corn at local rates to Chicago instead
of at through rates to the eastern points. That the portion
of a through rate received by one of the companies party
thereto may be less than its local rate, is not questioned. The
Interstate Commerce Commission, which has filed a brief in
this case, and which has criticised some of the views expressed
in the opinion of the Court of Appeals in the Osborne case,
concedes this, and also that the judgment in that case was

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

right. All that it contends for is that the total through rate
shall be greater than the local rate, so as not to violate in
this respect the long and short haul clause.
We pass, therefore, to consider the allegations as to the
non-publication of this tariff. It is alleged that it was never
printed in type, was never circulated or published at any of
these stations on defendant's road in Iowa, that no copy
thereof was ever filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, and that the existence of the same was concealed from
the knowledge of the phifitiff and other shippers in Iowa,
and the benefits and advantages of the rates therein specified
were denied to plaintiff and such other shippers. The burden
of this is the ignorance of the plaintiff, through failure to.
publish this tariff at Iowa stations. The interstate commerce
act, in section 6, requires the railroad company to post in
every station along the line of its road its local tariffs. It
also requires such carrier to file with the commission copies
of all contracts, agreements or arrangements with other common carriers, and also copies of any joint tariffs made with such
common carriers, and adds that "such joint rates, fares and
charges on such continuous lines so filed as aforesaid shall be
made public by such 'common carriers when directed by said
commission, in so far as may, in the judgment of the commission, be deemed practicable; and said commission shall from
time to time prescribe the measure of publicity which shall
be given to such rates, fares and charges, or to such part of
them as it may deem it practicable for such- common carriers
to publish, and the places in which they shall be published."
In the former cases it was shown that the commission had
made a general order requiring the publication of joint tariffs
"at every depot or station upon the line of the carriers uniting
in such joint tariff, where any business is transacted in competition with the business of a carrier whose schedules are
required by law to be made public as aforesaid," and it was
there held that the places of shipment in Iowa were not competing points within the scope of this order, and that, therefore, no publication of this tariff at the points named was
necessary. Counsel contends that this fact only appeared in

PARSONS v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y.

459

Opinion of the Court.

the evidence on the part of the defendant and is not disclosed
or suggested in the petition in this case, and that the Court of
Appeals improperly based its decision upon the supposed existence of this order. We do not so understand the scope of
its opinion. No reference is made to any such order, and the
case is discussed upon simply the averments in the petition.
The allegation is that this joint tariff was not filed with the
commission, and not published at the Iowa stations from which
plaintiff made his shipment, and that in consequence thereof
he was ignorant of its rates. His argument practically is that
if the tariff had been filed with the commission it might have
made an order, either general or special, requiring that it be
posted at the Iowa stations; that if it had been so posted he
might have examined the rates and might have determined
to ship his corn, not to Chicago, but to one of the four eastern
points -named in such tariff. But these "might be's" interfere
very materially with the line of sequence. le does not show
that he had not already contracts with some consignee in
Chicago, New Orleans or some place other than the four
eastern points named in the tariff, for shipment to him of all
grain at his command. He does not allege that he had or
would have made any arrangement with any consignee in any of
those points for the receipt and sale of his corn, or even that the
extra commissions there would not more than make the difference in rates. In short, he does not allege, either directly or
indirectly, that if he had known of these rates he would have
shipped his corn, under this tariff, to either of those points, but
rests his contention upon the suggestion that the mere difference
in the prices would naturally have caused him to ship to one
or the other of them, and thus to take advantage of the joint
tariff. Every fact which he alleges might be absolutely and
fully true, and yet he, with knowledge of the joint tariff, with
the privilege of shipping under it, have never offered or sought
to forward a single pound of corn to any other place than
Chicago. Surely it needs but the statement of this to show
that he comes far short of that rule of strict proof which
enables one to enforce a penalty for wrong; for, if he would
not under any circumstances have shipped to New York, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

compelled by his contracts or any other consideration to ship
to Chicago, he cannot say that he was injured by his ignorance of the rate to New York. The only right of recovery
.given by the interstate commerce act to the individual is to
the "person or persons injured thereby for the full amount of
damages sustained in consequence of any of the violations
of the provisions of this act." So, before any party can recover under the act he must show not merely the wrong of
the carrier, but that that wrong has in fact operated to his
injury. If he had shipped to New York and been charged
local rates he might have recovered any excess thereon over
through rates. He did not ship to Now York and yet seeks
to recover the extra sum he might have been charged if he
had shipped. Penalties are not recoverable on mere possibilities. We think, therefore, without attempting to take judicial knowledge of the general order made by the Interstate
Commerce Commission in reference to the publication of joint
tariffs, the plaintiff has failed in that full and clear showing
of injury which is necessary in order to justify a recovery
under the interstate commerce act.
With reference to the fifth count, little need be said. In
that it is disclosed that the through rates to the four eastern
points were largely in excess of the local rate charged by
the defendant for shipment to Chicago. Of course, therefore,
within any view of the scope of the fourth section -the one
containing the long and short haul clause -there
was no
violation of its provisions.
With reference to the matter of publication, nothing more
need be said than has been in reference to such allegations in
Ahe prior counts, and as to the complaint of an unlawful preference and discrimination forbidden, by the third section of
the act, it is sufficient to refer to the fact heretofore noticed
of the failure of the plaintiff to show a certain injury to him.
These are all the matters that call for consideration. We
see no error in the judgment of the Court of Appeals, and itis
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTIcE

BRowS took no part in the decision of this case.

