ST. JOSEPH & GRAND ISLAND R'D v. STEELE.

659

Statement of the Case.

preceding corporation, we mean subject to them as existing
legal obligations, in manner and form as they would have
been enforceable had there been no change of organization.
The judgment of the Cirguit Court isreversed, aid the cause
is r6mandedfor further proceedingsnot inconsistont with
this opinion.

ST. JOSEPH AND GRAND ISLAND RAILROAD
COMPANY v. STEELE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 256. Argued March 31,April 1, 189T. - Decided May 24, 1897.

No Federal question is presented in this bill, on which the Circuit Court
could base the exercise of jurisdiction, and such jurisdiction cannot be
found in the character of the controversy as one existing between citizens
of different states.
A railroad company, owning and operating a line running through several
States, may receive and exercise powers granted by each, but does not
thereby become a citizen of every State it passes through, within the
meaning of the jurisdiction clause of the Constitution of the United
States.

THE St. Joseph and Grand Island Railroad Company, describing itself as a corporation created and subsisting under
and by virtue of the laws of Kansas and Nebraska, and as a
common carrier operating a railroad as a continuous line from
the city of Grand Island, in the State of Nebraska, to the city
of St. Joseph, in the State of Missouri, which railroad passes
through Doniphan County, in the State of Kansas, filed, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Kansas, a bill of complaint against R. M. Steele, sheriff, of
said Doniphan County, and a citizen of the State of Kansas,
seeking to restrain the said Steele, as sheriff of Doniphan
County, from levying upon and selling the complainant's
property situated in said county, for taxes assessed and levied
against the same for the year 1892 by the assessing authorities
of Doniphan County.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant answered; an agreed statement of facts was
filed; and, after argument, a decree was entered dismissing
the bill at plaintiff's costs. Thereupon an appeal was taken
by the complainant to the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, where the decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed. 27 U. S. App. 436. The case was
then brought to this court on appeal.
Mr. John M. Thurston, with whom was Mr. John F. Dillon
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. P. L. Soper and Mr. J. H. Gillpatrick for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs delivered the opinion of the court.

The St. Joseph and Grand Island Railroad Company, in its
petition filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas against R. M. Steele, sheriff of Doniphan
County, Kansas, alleged that the controversy in the case involved the construction of an act of Congress approved July 14,
1870, granting to the St. Joseph and Denver City Railroad
Company the right to build a bridge and maintain the same
across the Missouri River at or near St. Joseph, Missouri; and
also of an act of Congress approved March 5, 1872, authorizing and empowering the St. Joseph Bridge Building Company
to construct a bridge across the Missouri River at or near
St. Joseph, Missouri; that said bridge was built under these
acts, and that all of its revenue-producing facilities were derived therefrom, and that the controversy was over the right
to tax this bridge.
. But the other allegations of the bill disclose the case of a
dispute arising under the taxing laws of the State of Kansas.
One half of said bridge is within Doniphan County. On
May 16, 1892, the railroad company returned to the auditor
of the State a list and schedule of its property and railroad,
including that part of said bridge. Thereupon the state board
of railroad assessors for the State of Kansas duly assessed, for
the purposes of taxation for the year 1892, all the property of

ST. JOSEPH & GRAND ISLAND R'D v. STEELE. 661
Opinion of the Court.

said railroad company; the county commissioners of Doniphan
County, in pursuance of law, duly fixed and determined the
amount of the tax which the railroad company was to pay
for the year 1892; and the company duly paid the same to
the treasurer of Doniphan County. Subsequently one George
Manville, as trustee and assessor of Washington township in
Doniphan County, made an assessment of that part of said
bridge lying within said township, claiming that the same was
subject to taxation in said township as an independent structure and as a toll bridge. Thereupon the county commissioners of Donipban County, at their regular meeting in the
month of June, 1892, acted upon said assessment, and, against
the protest of the railroad company, levied upon said portion
of the bridge lying within Washington township a tax for the
year 1892.
The railroad company alleges in its bill that neither the
county nor township authorities of Doniphan County have or
had any authority or jurisdiction to assess and levy any taxes
whatever upon the bridge property of the company in Doniphan County, but that the said state board of railroad assessors
of Kansas had exclusive jurisdiction for assessing the said
property of the company in said county, and asks for an
injunction restraining the sheriff of said county from selling
or offering for sale the said bridge property for the taxes so
assessed against the same for the year 1892 by the local
authorities of Doniphan County.
It thus appears that the railroad company does not claim
that, by virtue of any provisions of the several acts of Congress
undbr which the bridge was built, the company is exonerated
from paying taxes on the same within the jurisdiction of the
State of Kansas, but its contention is that the bridge is to be regarded as a component part of its railroad, and as such is only
taxable by the state board of railroad assessors, and that the
county and township authorities cannot legally tax the bridge
as a toll bridge for local purposes. The question thus presented,
as we understand it, is one to be decided by and under the laws
of the State of Kansas. The power of that State to tax the
bridge property is not-denied, but the argument is made that

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the theory and true meaning of the state taxing laws is to restrict the exercise of that power to the state board of railroad
assessors. The contention on the other side is that under the
taxing laws of the State of Kansas it was proper for the state
board to assess the railroad as an entirety, and for the county
authorities to assess the bridge as an independent structure or
toll bridge. This position is based on the dual character of
the bridge, used, as it is, for both carrying the trains of the
railroad company and vehicles and passengers who pay tolls.
To give a Federal aspect to this question it is urged that the
franchise to exact tolls was conferred on the original builders
of the bridge by act of Congress. But this would not raise a
Federal question unless it were claimed that, by reason of such
grant, the bridge was exempted from state taxation. But the
bill and argument of the railroad company, as we have seen,
concede the right of the State to tax the bridge, but find fault
with the method by which the taxing authorities, state and
county, assessed the taxes for 1892, a question to be decided
under the laws of Kansas.
We cannot accede to the proposition that, because the acts
of Congress, which authorized the construction of the bridge
in question, gave the right to bpild a railroad and toll bridge,
the conceded power of the State to tax did not extend to the
bridge in both aspects. Nor can we agree that the making of
such a contention raised a Federal question of a character to
confer original jurisdiction in the Circuit Court of the United
States. Not every mere allegation of the existence of a Federal question in a controversy will suffice for that purpose.
There must be a real substantive question, on which the case
may be made to turn. Nor can jurisdiction be inferred argumentatively from the averments in the pleadings, but the
averments should be positive. Hanford v. Davies, 163 U. S.
273, 279.
Finding no Federal question actually presented in the bill
on which the Circuit Court could base the exercise of jurisdiction, we are now to inquire whether such jurisdiction can
be found in the character of the controversy as one existing
between citizens of different States.

ST. JOSEPH & GRAND ISLAND R'D v. STEELE.

663

Opinion of the Court.

The allegations of the bill in that respect were as follows:
"The St. Joseph and Grand Island Railroad Company is a
corporation created and subsisting under and by virtue of the
laws of Kansas and Nebraska." "The defendant is the duly
elected, qualified and acting sheriff of Doniphan County,
Kansas, and a citizen thereof."
There is no allegation in the bill as to the nature of such
corporation - whether it originated in special laws or under
general laws of those States. Nor does it appear in which
State the company was first incorporated. Our examination
of the state statutes has led us to suppose that this company
was formed by proceedings under general laws providing for
consolidating railroad companies in adjoining States.
However this may be, such an allegation as we have here
does not show that the railroad company complainant was a
citizen of a different State than that of which the defendant
was a citizen. Indeed, the allegation is, in effect, that the
railroad company and the defendants were citizens of the
State of Kansas.
Such a state of the record brings the case directly within
Ohio & -MississippiRailroad v. Wheeler, 1 Black, 286,. where
it was held that a corporation, endowed with its capacities and
facilities by the coi5perating legislation of two States, cannot
have one and the same legal being in both States; that
neither State can confer on it a corporate existence in the
other, nor add to or diminish the powers to be there exercised; and that two corporations deriving their powers from
distinct sovereignties, and exercising them within distinct
limits, cannot unite as plaintiffs in a suit in a court of the
United States against a citizen of either of the States which
chartered them.
While a railroad company, owning and operating a line
running through several States, may receive and exercise
powers granted by each, and may, for many purposes, be regarded as a corporation of each, such legislation does not
avail to make the same corporation a citizen of every State it
passes through, within the meaning of the jurisdiction clause
of the Constitution of the United States. Memphis & Charles-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

ton Railroad v. Alabama, 107 U. S. 581; St. Louis & San
Francisco Railway v. James, 161 U. S.545.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed; the
debree of the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas
is likewise reversed, and the cause is remanded to that
court with directions to dismiss the bill of comolaint for
'want of jurisdiction. The costs in this court to be paid
by appellant.

UNITED STATES v. REED.
UNITED STATES v. REED.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE SECOND

CIR-

CUIT.
Nos. 189, 190. Argued March 10, 11, 189T. -Decided

May 24, 1897.

The act of June 19, 1886, c. 421, 24 Stat. 19, did not repeal the provisions
of the act of June 26, 1884, c.121, 23 Stat. 59, as respects expenditures
by shipping commissioners other than for clerks.

THE SE were suits brought by James C. Reed, shipping commissioner of the United States at the port of New York, to
recover, respectively, the amount expended by him for rent of
office and storage rooms for his official use from March 1,
1891, to April 1, 1893, and the amount of certain expenses
which he incurred between July 1, 1886, and March 1, 1891,
in maintaining his office and discharging his duties, including
rent of the said rooms from April 1, 1890, to March 1, 1891.
The petition in No. 189, asking judgment for the sum of
$3125, was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York on April 7, 1893. The
Government filed a general answer on June 21 of the same
year, and the case was referred, by consent, to a referee, who
took the evidence presented by the parties and reported the
same, together with his ppinion, to the court. Upon the com-

