MENOTTI v. DILLON.
Syllabus.

.McGregor, 13 Allen, i82, 185. Any other decree will make
the disaffirmance by the infant ineffectual, if the property,
upon being sold, does not bring more than the debt attempted
to be secured. If the property, in its improved condition, does
not bring enough to pay the whole debt due the appellees, they
will be without remedy for the deficiency. If any balance
should remain after satisfying the above claims in the order
mentioned, it will belong to Mrs. MacGreal.
The decree is reversed, and the cause remanded for further

proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and

AIJR. JUSTICE

BROWN are of opinion

that the judgment should be affirmed.

MENOTTI v. DILLON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 809. Submitted April 28, 1897. - Decided May 24,19T.

The land in controversy, being 240 acres situated in California, was settled
upon and improved in good faith by H., in 1858, with the intention of
taking, at the proper time, the necessary steps to acquire the title thereto
from the United States, by procuring its location in part satisfaction of
the grant made by the United States to the State of California of 500,000
acres of land; and then of purchasing the land in question from the State.
In June, 1864, H., in proper form, made application to the State, under the
act of California approved April 27, 1863, fbr the sale of certain lands, to
locate this land as a "lieu school land location," and to purchase it from
the State. This application and offer to purchase were approved bF the
State's locating agent upon the condition that "if said location should
be made and approved by the United Stirtes, it should be for the use and
benefit of said applicant upon his complying with all the conditions and
provisions of tho said act of April 27, 1863." Subsequently, February 28,
1865, the State's agent, proceeding under the state law, located this land in
lieu of a portion of those which had been lost to the State, at the request
and for tle use of H., by filing an application fot the same in the United
States land office at San Francisco. This application to purchase was completed, so that on the 31st day of August, 1865, H. received from the State a
certificate of purchase in due form. Menotti, the plaintiff in error, claims
under H. At the time the above application was filed in the land office at

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.
San Francisco, the lands in controversy were withdrawn from preemption,
private entry and sale, by order of the Land Department, for the benefit
of a railroad company which had filed its map of general route under the
acts of Congress of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, c. 120, and July 2, 1864,
13 Stat. 356, c. 216, granting lands to aid in the construction of a railroad
and telegraph line from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean. By the
act of Congress of July 23, 1866, 14 Stat. 218, c. 219, quieting land titles
in California, it was provided that "in allcases where the State of California has heretofore made selections of any portion of the public domain
in part satisfaction of any grant made to said State by any act of Congress, and has disposed of the same to purchasers in good faith under
her laws, the lands so selected shall be, and hereby are, confirmed to said
State." This act excepted from its operation "lands to which any adverse preemption, homestead or other right has, at the date of the passage of this act, been acquired by any settler under the laws of the United
States, or to any lands which have been reserved for naval, military or
Indian purposes by the United States, or to any mineral land, or to any
land held or claimed under any valid Mexican or Spanish grant, or to any
land which, at the time of the passage of this act, was included within
the limits of any city, town or village, or within the county of San
Francisco." The railroad company filed its map of definite location in
1870. In 1872 the plaintiff in error, claiming under the purchaser from
the State, made application to the proper officers of the United States
Land Department for a confirmation of the right of said State to said
land so selected by said State for his benefit, under the provisions of the
above act of Congress July 23, 1866, and thereupon, and upon due notice
to the railroad company and the parties claiming under it, such proceedings were regularly had in said department and such proofs submitted,
and such a hearing had, that on the 15th day of May, 1874, the Commissioner of the General Land Office, under the direction and with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, listed over and certified to said
State this 240 acres of land "as confirmed to said State of California."
In 1875, Menotti received a patent from the State. The railroad company
received a patent from the United States in 1872, but this was after the
above proceedings under the act of 1866 were initiated. Held,
(1) That the act of July 1, 1862, as amended by the act of July 2, 1864,
did not grant to the railroad company any lands which had been
-sold, reserved or dispdsed of by the United States, nor impair
any existing " lawful claim," at the time the line of railroad was
"definitely fixed."
(2) The act of 1866 did not except from its operation lands within the
exterior lines of the general route of the railroad, and which, for
the benefit of the railroad company, had been withdrawn by executive order from preimption, private entry and sale. The
withdrawal order of 1865 did not stand in the way of the passage
of the act of 1866; first, because the acts of 1862 and 1864 by
necessary implication recognized the right of Congress to dispose

MENOTTI v. DILLON.
Opinion of the Court.
of the odd-numbered sections, within certain limits on each side
of the road, or any of them, at any time prior to the definite location of the line of the railroad; second, both acts. reserved to
Congress the power to alter, amend or repeal them; third, the
filing of the map of general route gave the raihoad company no
claim to any specific lands within the exterior limits of such route
on either side of the road, the rule being that a grant of public
lands in aid of the construction of a railroad is, until its route is
established, in the nature of a " float," and title does not attach to
any specific sections until they are identified by an accepted map
of definite location of the line of the road. The railroad company
accepted the grant subject to the possibility that Congress might,
in its discretion, and prior to the definite location of its line, sell,
reserve or dispose of enumerated sections for other purposes than
those originally contemplated. Consequently, at the date of the
definite location of the railroad in 1870, there was a "lawful
claim" upon these lands based on the act of 1866, which confirmed to the State, for the benefit of those who had purchased
from it in good faith, lands embraced by its provisions.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. S. F. Loib for plaintiff in error.
.M'. A. L. Rhodes for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE 1ARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was commenced in the District Court of the
third judicial district of California.
The complaint alleged that on the 23d day of April, 1873,
the original plaintiff, Charles McLaughlin, became the owner
in fee simple and entitled to the possession of the south half
of section twenty-one, in township seven.south, of range three
west, of the Mount Diablo base and meridian, according to
the United States survey ; that thereafter he continued to be
the owner and was entitled to the possession of said land;
but that on the above, date the defendant Menotti entered
into possession, ousted him and continued to hold possession,
to his damage in the sum of one thousand dollars.
The answer of the defendant denied each allegation of the
complaint. McLaughlin died, and his estate was distributed
to the present appellees who were substituted as plaintiffs.
VOL. CLxvii-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

There have been two trials of the case, each time by the
court without the intervention of a jury. The first judgment,
which was for the defendant, was reversed by the Supreme
Court of California because of the insufficiency of the finding
of facts bearing upon the question of title. 89 California, 354.
The last judgment was also for the defendant; but it was reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to enter judgment in favor of the plaintiffs for the lands in controversy, and
for rents and profits. -Medaug/linv. Menotti, 105 California,
572. From that decree a writ of error was sued out to this court.
The case made by the agreed statement of facts, and
by the evidence introduced at the trial, was substantially as
follows:
The Central Pacific Railroad Company of California executed, October 31, 1864, an assignment to the Western Pacific
Railroad Company of the right to construct its road between
San Jos6 and Sacramento, and of its .right accruing to it by
virtue of the acts of Congress of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489,. c.
120, and July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 856, c. 216, to the land in controversy in this action. This assignment was ratified by Congress March 3, 1865. 13 Stat. 504, c. 88.
On the 8th day of December, 1864, the Western Pacific
Railroad Company filed in the office of the Secretary of the
Interior a map designating the general route of its road. A
copy of that map was received at the United States land
office at San Francisco on the thirtieth day of January, 1865,
accompanied by an order from the Secretary reserving from
preemption, private entry and sale for the benefit of the railroad company the odd-numbered sections of land within
twenty-five miles on either side of the line of such general
route. This reservation was in force from the day last mentioned..
On February 20, 1870, the Central Pacific Railroad Company filed in the Department of the Interior the map of the
definite location of its railroad between San Jos6 and Sacramento; but the road opposite the land in controversy, between San Jos6 and Niles, was completed about the first day
of September, 1866.

MENOTTI v. DILLON.
Opinion of the Court.

On June 2, 1870, the Central Pacific Railroad Company
of California and the Western Pacific Railroad Company consolidated under the name of the Central Pacific Railroad
Company.
The official map of township seven south, range three west,
Mount Diablo base and meridian was filed by the United
States surveyor general for California in the United States
land offiQe at San Francisco on February 27, 1865. Prior
to fhat date, and on or'about the 10th day of June, 1864, a
.survey was made by a deputy United States surveyor for California of the part of that township embracing the land in controversy; but that survey was not made by authority of the
Government of the United States. No actual survey of any
portion of that township had ever been made before June,
1864, and up to that time no attempt had been made by any
person, or by the Government, to have its boundaries ascertained, or to establish the lines of sections in that township.
The land in controversy in this action is within twenty
miles of the line of definite location of the Central Pacific
Railroad Company, and within twenty-five miles, but not
within ten miles, from the line of the general route of the
railroad.
On the thi.rd day of April, 1872, the United States duly executed and delivered to the Central Pacific Railroad Company
a patent for the land in controversy, with other lands. It was
in the usual form of patents issued under the Pacific railroad
acts. And on the third day of April, 1873, that company executed to McLaughlin a deed conveying to him all its right,
title and interest in this land.
At the commencement of this action the defendant was in
the possession of the south half of the southeast quarter, and
the southwest quarter of section twenty-one, of township seven
south, range three west, Mount Diablo meridian, being two
hundred and forty acres of the land described in the complaint, and of no more. No part of these lands are or were
mineral lands, or were returned or denominated as mineral
lands.
It was found that one Philip Hirleman settled upon and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

improved this land as early as 1858; that it was "then used
for pasturage, had a house upon it and was enclosed partly
by a post and rail fence, and for the balance by gulches forming a natural enclosure"; that in June, 1864, and until December 6, 1866, it was occupied by him, and he had on the land
during that time a house, barn, corrals, a small field of wheat
and potatoes, and cows and horses. The finding states that
he "was there all the time; had possession of about 1000
acres of land, including the land in controversy, which was
enclosed by two fences and two gulches; each fence at each
end thereof connecting with the gulches; the gulches and
fences constituting an enclosure of the tract of about 1000
acres, including the land in controversy. The fences ran east
and west; the northerly fence was between a half a mile to a
mile in length and ran partly across section 21, and the south
fence was upon a section lying south of section 21."
It was also found that "on January 30, 1865, the said Ilirleman was, and had been prior thereto, and during the year
1864, and was, subsequent to the said 30th day of January,
1864, tip to the time of the execution by him of the deed to
Jean Peter, a settler in good faith on the land involved in
this action, to wit, said 240 acres; and that the improvements hereinabove designated were made on the said land by
hini in good faith, and that such settlement by him, and the
said improvements, were made with the intention in good
faith of taking, at the proper time, the necessary steps to
acquire the title to said land from the Government of the
United States, by procuring its location in part satisfaction
of the grant made by the Government of the United States
to the State of California of 500,000 acres of land, by act of
Congress of date -; and then of purchasing the land involved in this aetion from the State of California."
During the years 1864 and 1865 Hirleman was a naturalized
citizen of the United States; was then and had been since
1858 a resident in good faith of California and of the county
of Santa Cruz, in which county the land involved in .this action
was then located; and was the head of a family, possessing
all the qualifications necessary to enable him to acquire the

MENOTTI v. DILLON.
Opinion of the Court.

title from the Government of the United States to the land in
controversy.
It also appears from the finding of the court that under
and by virtue of the act of the legislature of the State of California of April 27, 1863, entitled "An act to provide for the
sale of certain lands belonging to the State of California,"
Hirleman, on June 13, 1864, "in due and proper form, made
application to Leander Ransom, who was then and there the
duly appointed, qualified and acting locating agent of the
State of California, under said act, to locate as a lieu school
land location; and to purchase from said State, the said 240
acres of land involved in this action ; which said application
was accompanied with the affidavit of said applicant, in due
and proper form, required by the act of April 27, 1863, and
also with the affidavit of loyalty, in due and proper form,
required by the act of April 27, 1863, and also the affidavits
of three disinterested witnesses as to the character of said
land, and the fact that no Valid claim existed thoreto adverse
to said applicant's claim, as required by said act of April 27,
1863; and that said locating agent on June 16, 1864, duly
accepted said application and affidai'its and offer to purchase,
upon the condition that if said location should be made and
approved by the United States, it should be for the use and
benefit of said applicant upon his complying with all the conditions and provisions of said act of April 27, 1863; and that
said locating agent on February 28, 1865, in conformity with
the provisions of said act, located in lieu of a portion of the
lands of said State, which had been lost to said State, the said
240 acres of land involved in this action, at the request, and
for the use of said Ilirleman, by filing an application for the
same in the name and for the State of California, in the United
States land office at San Francisco, said land being within the
San Francisco land district, with the consent of John F. Swift,
who was then the duly appointed, qualified and acting register of said district; which said location made upon said Hirleman's application was filed in the state land office of the State
of California on April 4, 1865, and was, by the surveyor general of said State, approved May 13, 1865 ; and that the treas-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

urer of Santa Cruz County, within which county said land was
then included, was, in the said order of approval, directed to
receive in payment of said location, within fifty days from the
recording of said approval, twenty per cent of the purchase
money and one year's interest on the balance in advance, at
the rate of ten per cent per annum, from the date of the location in the locating agent's office."
On the fourth day of June, 1865, and within fifty days after
the recording of the approval of Hirleman's location of June,
1864, payment was made by him to the treasurer of Santa
Cruz County, in all respects as directed; and on the thirtyfirst day of August, 1865, a certificate of purchase, in due form,
covering the land, was issued to him by the State of California upon his application.
On December 6, 1866, Hirleman conveyed by deed all his
right, title and interest in and uo these 240 acres of land to
Jean Peter, who thereupon took and held possession of the
same until March 9, 1867, when he conveyed, by deed, all his
right, title and interest to the defendant Menotti, who thereupon entered into possession, and ever since has been and still
is in possession.
The finding further states that after the twenty-third day
of July, 1866,- the date of the passage of the act of Congress
quieting land titles in California, - to wit, about the thirteenth
day of March, 1872, "the defendant made application to the
propel' officers of the United States Land Department for a
confirmation of the right of said State to said land so selected
by said State for his benefit, under the provisions of the act
of Congress entitled 'An act to quiet land titles in California,'
approved July 23,1866, 14 Stat. 218, c. 219; and thereupon,
and upon due notice to said Western Pacific Railroad Company and the parties claiming under it, such proceedings were
regularly had in said department and such proofs submitted,
and such a hearing in said department had, that on the fifteenth
day of May, 1874, the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
under the direction and with the approval of the Secretary of
the Interior, listed over and certified to said State the 240
acres of land as confirmed to said State of California."

MENOTTI v. DILLON.
Opinion of the Court.

On December 31, 1874, full payment upon this location was

made to the State, through the proper county treasurer, by
Menotti as assignee of Hirleman. And on February 25, 1875,
the State issued to him, as such assignee, its letters patent,
granting the 240 acres of land in question upon the application above mentioned.
It appears from the above statement that Menotti and those
under whom he claims title have been in actual possession of
the lands in controversy since 1858. Of Hirleman's good faith
in settling upon, improving and purchasing them, no question
can be made under the findings of fact. Nor is any question
made as to the good faith of those claiming under him. It
.may also be stated that fifteen years had expired after Hirleman settled upon the land and commenced improving it before
McLaughlin, the original plaintiff, obtained a deed from the
Central Pacific Railroad Company.
The case is, therefore, one that appeals strongly to the
court for the protection of the defendant who claims under
an actual settler-who in good faith purchased these lands from
the State, and whose right thereto, as a claimant under the
State, has been confirmed by the action of the Land Department.
It is necessary to a clear understanding of the precise question to be determined that reference be made to certain legislation by the United States and California.
By the act of Congress of March 3, 1853, entitled "An act
to provide for the survey of the public lands in California, the
granting of prebmption rights therein, and for other purposes,"
10 Stat. 244, 246, c. 145, it was provided "that all the public
lands in the State of California, whether surveyed or unsurveyed, with the exception of sections sixteen and thirty-six,
which shall be and hereby are granted to the State for the
purposes of public schools in each township, and with the
exception of land's appropriated under the authority of this
act, or reserved by competent authority, and excepting also
the lands claimed under any foreign grant or title and the
mineral lands, shall be subject to the preemption laws of
September fourth, eighteen hundred and forty-one, with all

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the exceptions, conditions and limitations therein, except as
is herein otherwise provided." § 6. By the same act it was
provided "that where any settlement, by the erection of a
dwelling house or the cultivation of any portion of the land,
shall be made upon the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections,
before the same shall be surveyed, or where such sections
may be reserved for public uses or taken by private claims,
other land shall be selected by the proper authorities of the
State in lieu thereof, agreeably to the provisions of the act
of Congress, approved on the twentieth of May, eighteen hundred and twenty-six, entitled 'An act to appropriate lands for
the support of schools in certain townships and fractional
townships, not before provided for,' and which shall be subject
to approval by the Secretary of the Interior." § 7.
The act of Congress of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, c. 120,
relating to the construction of a railroad and telegraph line
from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, contained a
grant of the odd-numbered sections of public lands (excluding
mineral lands) on each side of the road within certain limits
"not sold, reserved or otherwise disposed of by the United
States, and to which a preemption or homestead claim may
not have attached, at the time the line of said road is definitely
fixed." (§ 3.) It provided that "Congress may, at any time,
having due regard for the rights of said companies named herein,
add to, alter, amend or repeal this act." (§ 18.) And by the
act of July 25, 1864, 13 Stat. 356, c. 216, the above grant was
enlarged, and it was provided (§ 4) - using the words of the
act as published by the authority of Congress -that any
lands granted by it, or by the above act of July 1, 1862, of
which it was amendatory, "shall not defeat or impair any
prebmption, homestead, swamp land, or other lawful claim,
nor include any government reservation or mineral lands, or
the improvements of any bona ftde settler, or any lands returned and denominated as mineral lands, and the timber
necessary to support his said improvements as a miner, or
agriculturalist, to be ascertained under such rules as have been
or may be established by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, in conformity with the provisions of the pre~mp-

MENOTTI v. DILLON.
Opinion of the Court.

tion laws." That act provided that "Congress may, at any
time, alter, amend or repeal this act." (§ 22.)
The legislature of California by the act of April 27, 1863,
entitled "An act to provide for the sale of certain lands
belonging to the State," Stat. Cal. 1863, c. 397, p. 591, made
provision, among other things, for the sale of "the unsold
portion of the 500,000 acres granted to the State for school
purposes," 1 and "the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections
granted for the use of the public schools, or lands in lieu
thereof." § 2.
The same act of California (April 27, 1863) (§ 4) provided:
"Whenever any resident of this State desires to purchase any
portion of a sixteenth or thirty-sixth section of any township
in this State, or lands in lieu thereof, if the lands sought to
be purchased have not been surveyed by authority of the
United States, he shall file in the office of the county surveyor of the county-in which said lands are situate, an application for a survey and plat and field notes of the lands sought
to be purchased, which, when obtained, he shall file with the
locating agent of the district, together with an affidavit that
he is a citizen of the United States, or has filed his intentions
to become a citizen, that he is of lawful age, and is a resident
of the State, that the lands sought to be purchased are unoccupied except by the applicant, and that there are no improvements on said lands other than his own, and that to the
best of his knowledge and belief there is no valid claim existing to said land adverse to his own, and if the applicant be a
I This reference was no doubt to the act of September 4, 1841, 5 Stat.
453, c. 16, by which Congress granted to each of certain States named, and
to each new State, as it was admitted into the Union, five hundred thousand
acres of land for purposes of internal improvement, "the selections in all
of said States to bemade within their limits respectively in such manner as
the legislatures thereof shall direct," § 8; and to the act of the California
legislature of May 3, 1852, which authorized the issue of land warrants to
be sold and the proceeds invested in bonds to be kept as a special deposit
to the credit of the "school fund," and which act also provided that I the
parties purchasing such warrants and their assigns are hereby authorized
in behalf of this State to locate the same upon any vacant and unappropriated land belonging to the United States within the State of California
subject to such location," etc. -Laws of California, 1852, p. 41, c. 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
opinion of the Court.

female, that she is entitled to purchase and hold real estate
in her own name under the laws of this State; all of
which shall be verified by the affidavit of three disinterested
witnesses."
By another section (§ 5) it is provided: "Whenever a settlement is or has been made by occupation or improvement
upon any portion of a sixteenth or thirty-sixth section of any
of the public lands in this State, the locating agent of the district in which such land is situated shall, if such occupant has
not acquired a preemption right to such land, notify such occupant or claimant of the fact that he is upon lands belonging
to the State, and that he must make application to purchase
the same of the State within sixty days, or forfeit all rights
to the land. If such occupant or claimant shall neglect or
refuse to make such application to purchase within the sixty
days above named, such -land shall be subject to location and
sale in the manner provided for the sale of other sixteenth
and thirty-sixth sections, with the exception that the affidavits in regard to occupancy and improvement may be
omitted, in all of which cases the application to purchase
shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the locating agent of
the district, that he has duly notified the occupant or claimant. of the land as provided by this section, and that for a
period of sixty days after such notice the occupant or claimant has refused or neglected to apply for said lands."
We have seen that before the passage of this act of Congress, namely, on the 13th day of .June, 1864, Hirleman made
application in proper form to the State, under the act of April
27, 1863, "to locate as a lieu school land location and to purchase from said State, the said 240 acres of land involved in
this action." That application and offer to purchase were
accepted by the State's agent on the 16th of June, 1864, upon
the condition that if the location was made and was approved
by the United States it should be for the use of the applicant
upon his complying with the conditions of the act of April
27, 1863. The location was made by the State's locating
agent on the 28th day of February, 1865, by filing an application in its name in the land office at San Francisco. The

MENOTTI .v. DILLON.
Opinion of the Court.

application was approved by the surveyor general of California on May 13, 1865. And on August 1, 1865, Hirlenan,
having made payment as required, a certificate of purchase
covering the lands was given to him by the State. These
things all took place before the railroad company filed its
map of definite location, and before the passage of the act to
be presently referred to quieting land titles in California.
As Congress expressly declared that neither the act of 1864
nor that of 1862 should defeat or impair "any preemption,
homestead, swamp land or other law'ful claim," the controlling question in the case is whether, within the meaning of
that act, Hirleman's claint ever became a "lawful claim"
upon these lands? In determining this question, the words in
the act of 186 , "not sold, reserved or otherwise disposed of
by the United States . .
at the time the line of said
road is definitely fixed," must be taken in connection with the
words in the amendatory act of July 2, 1864, "!shall not
defeat or impair any . . . other lawful claim." Construing those acts together it is clear that no lands were embraced
by the grant to which any "lawful claim" had attached at
the time the line of railroadwas definitely fixed on the 20th
day of February, 1870. By the express terms of the granting
act, as we have seen, only odd-numbered sections were granted
which, at the date of the ,definite location of the road, were
not sold, reserved or otherwise disposed of by the United
States, and to which no pregmption, homestead or other lawful claim had attached. Kansas Pacifie Railway v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629, 639, 644.
What, then, was the situation at the time of the definite
location of the road?
By the act of Congress of July 23, 1866, 14 Stat. 218, c.
219, entitled "An act to quiet land titles in California," it was
provided (§ 1) that "in all cases where the State of California
has heretofore made selections of any portion of the public
domain in part satisfaction of any grant made to said State
by any act of Congress, and has disposed of the same to purchasers in good faith under her laws, the lands so selected
shall be, and hereby are, confirmed to said State: Provided,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

That no selection made by said State contrary to existing
laws shall be confirmed by this act for lands to which any
adverse preemption, homestead or other right has, at the
date of the passage of this act, been acquired by any settler
under the laws of the United States, or to any lands which
have been reserved for naval, military or Indian purposes by
the United States, or to'any mineral land, or to any land held
or claimed under any valid Mexican or Spanish grant, or to
any land which, at the time of the passage of this act, was
included within the limits of any city, town or village, or
within the county of San Francisco: And provided further,
That the State of California shall not receive under this act a
greater quantity of land for school or improvement purposes
than she is entitled to by law." The second section related
to selected lands that had been surveyed by authority of the
United States; the third section to selected lands that had
not been surveyed by authority of the United States, but
which had been surveyed by authority of and under the laws
of the State, and sold to purchasers in good faith under the
laws of the State.
This act was passed several years before the railroad company filed its map of definite location. Its object is manifest
upon its face. It was a statute of repose in respect of land
titles in California. Referring to the provisions of the act of
March 3, 1853, 10 Stat. 244, 246, c. 145, requiring surveys of
the public lands as a means of extending to California the
system of surveys, sales and preemptions provided for other
States and Territories, this court, speaking by Mir. Justice
Miller, in Hqff v. Doyle, 93 U. S.558, 559, said: "The State
of California, impatient of the delay of the United States
authorities in making these surveys, undertook to perform
that duty herself; and, assuming from data furnished by her
own surveys, that a great many acres of the sixteenth and
thirty-sixth sections were within one or the other of the
exceptions of the granting clause, for which the State was to
select other lands, the legislature authorized selections and
locations to be made in lieu thereof, according to state surveys.
The land in controversy was so selected by the State and sold

MENOTTI v. DILLON.
Opinion of the Court.

to the plaintiff, who settled on it in 1865, and received from
the State a certificate of sale. The officers of the Land
Department, when the matter was brought to their attention,
refused to recognize the surveys made by the State, or to acknowledge the validity of selections and locations made under
settlethe state laws; and as many such selections and actual
embarand
hardships
the
made,
been
ments under them had
government
rassments growing out of the action of the state
In Rowe's
1866."
23,
July
of
act
caused the passage of the
1866, is
23,
July
of
act
"The
case, the Land Department said:
liberally.
construed
be
remedial in its character and should
aiid was
It is entitled an act to quiet land titles in California,
irregularities
of
curative
be
evidently intended by Congress to
and to
in selections made by the State under various grants,
notwithState
the
confirm titles in innocent purchasers from
standing irregularities in selections." 7 L. D. 397, 399.
of
While guarding the rights of settlers "under the laws
proits
the United States," and taking care to exclude from
or
visions all lands previously reserved for naval, military
lands
Indian purposes by the Government; mineral lands;
and
held or claimed under valid Mexican or Spanish grants;
village,
or
town
city,
any
within
lands which at the time were
that
or within the county of'San Francisco; Congress intended
purhad
faith
good
in
who
justice should be done to those
State
the
which
lands
laws,
its
chased from the State, under
of
had selected from the public domain in part satisfaction
used
it
.result,
that
grants by Congress. In accomplishing
all cases
in the act of 1866 language that clearly covered
from
excepted
was
of that character. No case of that kind
that
to
belongs
the operation of the act. The present case
State
the
by
class. The lands in controversy were selected
And
in part satisfaction of a grant to it of public lands.
good
in
they were disposed of by the State to a purchaser
faith under its laws. All this occurred, as we have seen,
under
before the passage of the act of 1866; for Hirleman,
1st
the
on
State,
the
from
received
whom Menotti claims,
Menotti
And
purchase.
of
certificate
day of August, 1865, a
act of
made application to the Land Department, under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

July 23, 1866, for the confirmation of the right of the State
tQ the land so selected by it for his benefit; and upon due
notice to the Western Paciflo Railroad Company and the
parties claiming under it, such proceedings were had in that
department, such proofs submitted, and such hearing had,
that on the 15th day of Mlay, 1874, the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, under the direction and with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, listed over and certified to the State the 240 acres of land "as confirmed to said
Thereupon Menotti, as assignee of
State of California."
Hirleman, on the 31st day of December, 1874, made full payment upon such location to the State, and on the 25th day of
February, 1875, the State issued to him its letters patent,
based upon the original application in 1864 for the lands in
question.
In Wilkinson v. Merrill, 52 California, 424, 426, the Supreme Court of California said: "Under the act of Congress
of July 23, 1866, it was a question for the Land Department
-first, whether the State had selected the land in controversy
in part satisfaction of any grant made to the State by any act
of Congress; second, whether the State had disposed of the
land to a purchaser in good faith under her laws; third,
whether the land was within any of the exceptions by which
lands are reserved from the validating effect of the act;
fourth, whether the defendant had proved up his claim before
the register and receiver in the manner and within the time
required by the validating act. These were questions in
which no one but the United States and the defendant were
interested; and the act of Congress confers upon the Land
Department the jurisdiction to determine them. On deciding
these questions in favor of the applicant claiming as a purchaser from the State, it is made the duty of the Comiissioner of the General Land Office to certify the lands over
to -the State for the benefit of the purchaser. The case
shows that the selection by the State for the use of the defendant was approved by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office and by the Secretary of the Interior after proper
investigation, and thereupon the land was duly listed to the

MENOTTI v. DILLON.
Opinion of the Court.

State. Up to this point the rights of no third person had
intervened, and the Land Department, to whom the decision
of all the questions of law and fact pertaining to the proceeding were specially confided, having decided in favor of their
regularity and validity, the decision was conclusive as against
the United States, and is conclusive as against the plaintiff,
who subsequently attempted to acquire the title from the
State." In Huffv. Doyle, above cited, this court said that
it admitted of grave doubt whether in a suit at law the
validity of the action of the Land Department confirming
lands to the State under the act of 1866 could be impeached,
and that it certainly could not be impeached on any other
ground disclosed by the record of that case than that it confirmed lands to the State which were expressly excepted from
confirmation. We are of opinion that while the decision of
the Land Department was conclusive as to all facts upon
which it necessarily rested, it was not conclusive as to the
question of law involved in it, namely, whether the act of
1866 confirmed to the State any lands which, at the time,
were withdrawn by executive order from "preemption, private
entry and sale" for the benefit of the railroad company.
It is said that the railroad company filed its map of general
route on the 8th day of December, 1864, and thatthese lands
having been withdrawn from preemption, private entry and
sale by -the executive order of January 30, 1865, they were
not embraced by the act of 1866. In our opinion this is not
a -proper interpretation of that act. The proviso of the first
section distinctly indicates certain cases to which the act
should not apply; and, distinctly excluding those cases, but
no others, from its operation, the act, in express words, confirmed to the State,. "in all cases," lands which the State had
theretofore selected in satisfaction of any grant by Congress
and sold to purchasers in good faith under its laws. No exception is made of lands which, at the date. of the passage of
the act, were withdrawn from preemption, private entry and
sale pursuant to the filing by the railroad company of its map
of general route. And the court should not construe the act
as excluding lands in that condition, unless it is prepared to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

hold that Congress had no power to confirm to the State
lands which, at the time, were simply withdrawn from preemption, private entry or sale for railroad purposes. We
cannot so adjudge. The withdrawal order of January 30,
1865, did not, in our judgment, stand in the way of the passage of such an act as that of 1866; first, because the acts
of 1862 and 1864 by necessary implication recognized the
right of Congress to dispose of the odd-numbered sections,
or any of them, within certain limits on each side of the road,
at any time prior to the definite location of the line of the
railroad; second, Congress reserved the power to alter, amend
or repeal each act; third, the filing of the map of general
route gave the railroad company no claim to any specific
lands within the exterior limits of such route on either-side
of the road, the rule being that a grant of public lands, in aid
of the construction of a railroad, is, until its route is established, in the nature of "a float," and title does not attach to
specific sections until they are identified by an accepted map
of definite location of the line of road to be constructed. The
railroad company accepted the grant subject to the possibility
that Congress might, in its discretion, and prior to the deftnits location of its line, sell, reserve or dispose of enumerated
sections for other purposes than those originally contemplated.
Kansas Pacific Railway v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629, 639, 644;
United States v. Southern Pacific Railroad, 146 U. S. 570,
593. In Northern Pacific Railroad v. Sanders, 166 U. S.

620, 634, we said: "The company acquired, by fixing its
general route, only an inchoate right to the odd-numbered
sections granted by Congress, and no right attached to any
specific section until the road was definitely located, and the
map thereof filed and accepted. Until such definite location
it was competent for Congress to dispose of the public lands
on the generial route of the road as it saw proper."
It is true, as said in many cases, that the object of an executive order withdrawing from pregmption, private entry and
sale, lands within the general route of a railroad is to preserve
the lands, unencumbered, until the completion and acceptance'
of the road. But where the grant was, as here, of odd-

MENOTTI v. DILLON.
Opinion of the Court.

numbered sections, 'within certain exterior lines, "not sold,
reserved or otherwise disposed of by the United States, and
to which a preemption or homestead claim may not have
attached, at the time the line of said road is definitely fixed,"
the filing of a map of general route and the issuing of a
withdrawal order did not prevent the United States, by
legislation, at any time prior to the definite location of the
road, from selling, reserving or otherwise disposing of any of
the lands which, but for such legislation, would have become,
in virtue of such definite location, the property of the railroad
company. Especially must this be true, where the grant is
made subject to the reserved power of Congress to add, to,
alter, amend or repeal the act containing such grant. The act
of 1866 did not take from the railroad company any lands to
which it had then acquired an absolute right. The right it acquired, in virtue of the act making the grant and of the accepted
map of its general route, was to earn such of the lands, within the
exterior lines of that route, as were not sold, reserved or disposed
of, or to which no preemption orhomestead claim had attached,
at the time of the definite location of its road. That act did
not violate any contract between the United States and the
railroad company, for the reason that the contract itself
recognized the right of Congress at any time before the line
of road was definitely located, to dispose of odd-numbered
sections granted. It was one that disposed of the lands in
question before the definite location of the road. It dedicated
these and like lands, part of the public domain, to the specific
purposes stated in its provisions, and to that extent removed
the restrictions created by the withdrawal order of 1865,
leaving that order in full force as to other lands embraced
by it. Bullard v. Des .Moines & Fort Dodge Railroad,122
U. S. 167, 174. That order took these lands out of the public
domain as between the railroad company and individuals, but
they remained public lands under the full control of Congress,
to be disposed of by it in its discretion at any time before
they became the property of the company under an accepted
definite location of its road.
We cannot doubt that the act of 1866 was a legal exertion
VOL. cLxvii-46

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of the power of Congress over the public domain; and as its
.provisions embraced the present case, it must be adjudged that,
at the date of the definite location of the line of the railroad
referred to, there was a "lawful claim" upon the lands in controversy, based on the act of 1866; in other words, that act
confirmed to the State, for the benefit of those who had purchased from it in good faith, all lands embraced by its provisions, and not expressly excepted therefrom. The subsequent
definite location of the line of the railroad did not withdraw
from its operation any lands confirmed to the State. This
doubtless was the view taken by the Land Department, which,
after due notice to all parties interested, confirmed these lands
to the State. The circumstance that the railroad company
had, before that action of the Land Department, obtained a
patent covering these with other lands, is not material, for the
reason that they had been segregated from the public domain
by the act of 1866,and were thereby. excluded from the grant
of 1862, notwithstanding they were within the exterior lines of
the general route of the railroad. Besides, Menotti's proceedings under the act of 1866 were instituted in that department
before the railroad company obtained its patent.
Without considering other aspects of the case, we are of
opinion that the defendant was entitled, upon the findings of
fact, to a judgment in his favor. A judgment in favor of the
plaintiffs was a denial of rights secured to the defendant by
the laws of the United States.
As the views we have expressed' determine the case for the
plaintiff in error, it is unnecessary to consider whether, as
held by the Supreme Court of the State, the words in the'
fourth section of the printed act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 356,
c. 216, "the improvements of afny bona fide settler, or any
lands returned and denominated as mineral lands," should
read "the improvements of any bonafide settler on any lands
returned and denominated as mineral lands."
The judgment is reversed, and the case remanded to the Supreme Court of Calforiafor farther proceedings not 'inconsistent with this opinion.

DOMINGUEZ DE GUYER v. BANNING.

723

Syllabus.

DOMINGUEZ

DE GUYER v. BANNING.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 24. Argued January 8, 1897. -Decided

May 24,1897.

The Board of Commissioners appointed under the act of Congress of March
3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, c. 41, confirmed to Manuel Dominguez and others,
claimants under a Mexican grant, a certain tract of land known as the
Rancho San Pedro. Upon appeal to the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of California, the action of the Board
was approved, and it was- adjndged, February 10, 1857, that the claimants
had a valid title to that ranchef the decree giving the boundaries to the
lands so confirmed. In execution of the decree, the lands were surveyed
under the direction of the United States surveyor general of California.
The survey upon its face excepted, reserved and excluded from the claim
surveyed the inner bay of San Pedro. Within the exterior lines of that
bay is Mormon Island, containing at mean low tide 18.88 acres, and at
mean high tide, about one acre. The survey having been filed in the Land
Department, a patent was issued February 19, 1858, to the claimants under
the decree of confirmation, conveying lands that were outside the exterior lines of the inner bay of San Pedro, and containing eight square
leagues more or less. The patent followed the survey, and did not inelude that bay or any lands within its exterior lines. The present action
was brought by various parties, asserting title under the decree of confirmation, to recover possession of the above 18.88 acres. The defendant claimed under a patent issued to him by the United States in 1881.
No application was ever made to the District Court of the United States
to correct any error in the decree of 1857, nor was any step taken to have
a new survey or to obtain a patent conveying all the lands apparently
embraced by that decree: Held,
(I) If the surveyor general misinterpreted the decree of confirmation,
and made a survey which excluded from the surveyed claim any of
the lands within the lines given by that decree, it was within the
power of the District Court to have its decree properly executed,
and to that end to order a new survey;
(2) While it may be true, in some cases, that an action to recover possession of lands confirmed to a claimant under the act of 1851 can
be maintained before a patent is issued, a patent issued avowedly
in execution of a decree passed under that act, was conclusive
between the United States and the claimants, and until cancelled,
such patent alone determines, in an action to recover possession,
the location of the lands that were confirmed by the decree;
(3) The patent in question having been accepted by the patentees, and

