OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

Viejo de Cochiti." The burden of proving the larger grant is
upon the claimants. So long as the description is reconcilable
with the smaller grant, and with a pueblo located upon the
mesa of Cochiti, the Government is entitled to the benefit of
that construction. The location of that pueblo seven miles to
the northeast is supported by testimony too shadowy to be a
safe basis for a legal adjudication in favor of the claimants.
While we agree with the court below upon the main question involved, the different view we have taken regarding the
western boundary requires that its decree be
Reversed, and the case remandedfor furtherproceeding8 in
conformity with this opinion.

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
ROSS v. BAUMAN.
ABBOT v. ROSS.
ROSS v. ARMES.
APPEALS

FROM THE COURT OF

APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
Nos. 631, 682, 683 634.

Argued December 16, 17, 1896.-Decided May 10, 1897.

Under the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which
declares "nor shall private property be taken for public use without
just compensation," Congress may direct that, when part of a parcel of
land is appropriated to the public use for a highway in the District of
Columbia, the tribunal vested by law with the duty of assessing the
compensation or damages due to the owner, whether for the value of
the part taken, or for any injury to the rest, shall take into consideration,
by way of lessening the whole or either part of the sum due him, any
special and direct benefits, capable of present estimate and reasonable
computation, caused by the establishment of the highway to the part
not taken.
By the Constitution of the United States, the estimate of the just compensation for property taken for the public use, under the right of eminent

BAUMAN

v. ROSS.

Names of Counsel.
domain, is not required to be made by a jury; but may be entrusted to
commissioners appointed by a court or by the executive, or to an inquest
consisting of more or fewer men than an ordinary jury.
Congress, in the exercise of the right of taxation in the District of Columbia, may direct that half of the amount of the compensation or damages
awarded to the owners of lands appropriated to the public use for a highway shall be assessed and charged upon the District of Columbia, and
the other half upon the lands benefited thereby within the District, in
proportion to the benefit; and may commit the ascertainment of the lands
to be assessed, and the apportionment of the benefits among them, to the
same tribunal which assesses the compensation or damages.
If the legislature, in taxing lands benefited by a highway, or other public
improvement, makes provision for notice, by publication or otherwise, to
each owner of land, and for hearing him, at some stage of the proceedings, upon the question what proportion of the tax shall be assessed upon
his land, his property is not taken without due process of law.
The recording by public authority of a map of a proposed system of highways within certain territory, without restricting the use or improvement
of lands before the commencement of proceedings for their condemnation for such highways, or limiting the damages to be awarded In such
proceedings, does not of itself entitle the owners of lands to compensation or damages.
An act of Congress, providing for the estimate of damages for taking lands
for highways in the District of Columbia, and for the assessment of such
damages, with interest, upon lands benefited by the highways, is not invalidated by a provision that the proceedings shall be void if Congress,
after being six months in session, shall make no appropriation for the
payment of the damages.
The act of March 2, 1893, c. 197, entitled " An act to provide for a permanent system of highways in that part of the District of Columbia lying
outside of cities," is constitutional and valid.

THESE were appeals in proceedings commenced by petition
of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia for the condemnation of a permanent right of way for the public over
certain subdivisions of lands in the District of Columbia, outside the limits of the cities of Washington and Georgetown,
under the act of March 2, 1893, c. 197. 27 Stat. 532. The
cases involved the constitutionality of that act. They were
argued. together, and are stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. S. MVor.thinfton for the Commissioners of the District of Columbia. Mr. S. T. Thomas, fr. A. B. Dusvall
and Hr. Samuel Maddox were on his brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Cpurt.

.Mr.Nathaniel Wilson and -Mr.Chapin Brown for Bauman
and others, and Abbot. -Mr.A. E. O'Connorwas on their brief.
.Mr. W. L. Cole for Armes.
brief.

Xr. C. 11. Armes was on his

MR. JusTiCE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The original plan of the city of .Washington, established in
1791, under the direction of President Washington, and by
authority of Congress, with its symmetrical arrangements of
squares and lots, streets, avenues, circles and public reservations, did not extend north of Boundary street, or affect the
roads and highways in the rest of the District of Columbia.
By an act of 1809, the proprietor of any lot or square in
the city of Washington was authorized to have it subdivided
upon submitting a plat thereof to the surveyor of the District
of Columbia, to be certified and recorded in his office upon his
being satisfied that its dimensions corresponded with the original lots. Act of January 12, 1809, c. 8; 2 Stat. 511; Rev.
Stat. D. C. §§ 477-481.
At a comparatively recent period, owners of lands outside
the northern boundary of the city of Washington, from time
to time, laid out streets over their lands, and made and recorded subdivisions thereof, as they pleased, often not conforming to each other, or to the general plan of the city of
Washington; and Congress, at last, found it necessary, to take
measures to have the streets throughout the District of Columbia laid out upon a uniform plan.
Congress accordingly, by the act of August 27, 1888, c. 916,
entitled "An act to regulate the subdivision of land within
the District of Columbia;" authorized the Commissioners of
the District of Columbia to make and publish general orders
regulating the platting and subdividing of all laids and
grounds in the District, and required any plat of subdivision
made in pursuance of such orders to be approved by them
before being admitted to record in the office of the surveyor;
and, in section 5,, provided that "no future subdivision of land

BAUMAN

v. ROSS.

Opinion of the Court.

District of Columbia, without the limits of the cities
in
of the
Washington and Georgetown, shall be recorded in the surveyor's office of the said District, unless made in conformity
with the general plan of the city of Washington." 25 Stat.
451; Comp. Stat. D. C. c. 58, §§ 39-43.
It was in order the more completely to carry out the same
object, that Congress passed the act of March 2, 1893, c. 197,
entitled "An act to provide a permanent system of highways
in that part of the District of Columbia lying outside of cities,"
the constitutionality of which is now impugned. 27 Stat. 532.
The parts of the act chiefly attacked are sections 11 and 15.
But the record discloses such differences of opinion in the
courts below, and the solution of the questions involved depends so much upon a view of the act as a whole, that it
will be convenient to state its various provisions somewhat
fully.
The first five sections of the act relate to the making, the
recording and the effect of plans for the extension of a permanent system of highways, in conformity, as nearly as practicable, with the general plan of the city of Washington, over
all that part of the District of Columbia which lies outside
the cities of Washington and Georgetown.
The act begins by enacting that "the Commissioners of the
District of Columbia are hereby authorized and directed to
prepare a plan for the extension of a permanent system of
highways over all that portion of said district not included
within the limits of the cities of Washington and Georgetown.
Said system shall be made as nearly in conformity with the
street plan of the city of Washington as the Commissioners
may deem advisable and practicable."
By section 2, "the said plans shall be prepared from time
to time in sections, each of which shall cover such an area
as the Commissioners may deem advisable to include therein;
and it shall be the duty of the Commissioners, in preparing
such plans by sections, as far as may be, practicable, to select
first such areas as are covered by existing suburban subdivisions not in conformity with the general plan of the city of
Washington.. The Commissioners, in making such plans, shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

adopt and conform to any then existing subdivisions which
shall have been made in compliance with the provisions of
the act" of August 27, 1888, c. 916, "or -which shall, in the
opinion of the Commissioners, conform to the general plan
of the city of Washington." "Whenever the plan of any
such section shall have been adopted by the Commissioners,
they shall cause a map of the same to be made, showing the
boundaries and dimensions of and number of square feet in
the streets, avenues and roads established by them therein;
the boundaries and dimensions of and number of square feet
in each, if any, of 'the then existing highways in the area
covered by such map; and the boundaries and dimensions of
and number of square feet in .each lot of any then existing
subdivisions owned by private persons; and containing such
explanations as shall be necessary to a complete understanding of such map. In making such maps, the Commissioners
are further authorized to lay out, at the intersections of the
principal avenues and streets thereof, circles or other reservations corresponding in number and dimensions with those now
existing at such intersections in the city of Washington." A
copy of such map, duly certified by the Commissioners, is to
be delivered to a commission created by this act, composed
of the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Interior and
the Chief of Engineers, for the time being, who may adopt
or alter it, or make a new map instead; and the map which
that commission shall adopt and approve in writing is to be
delivered to the Commissioners of the District of Columbia,
and be at once filed and recorded in the office of the surveyor
of the District of Columbia.
The same section proceeds: "And after any such map shall
have been so recorded, no further subdivision of any land included therein shall be admitted to record in the office of the
surveyor of said district, or in the office of,the recorder of deeds
thereof, unless the same be first approved by the Commissioners, and be in conformity to such map. Nor shall it be
lawful, when any such map shall have been so recorded, for
the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, or any other
officer or person representing the United States or the District

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

of Columbia, to thereafter improve, repair or assume any responsibility in regard to any abandoned highway within the
area covered by such map, or to accept, improve, repair or
assume any responsibility in regard to any highway that any
owner of land in such area shall thereafter attempt to lay out
or establish, unless such landowner shall first have submitted
to the Commissioners a plat of such proposed highway, and
the Commissioners shall have found the same to be in conformity to such map, and shall have approved such plat, and
caused it to be recorded in the office of said surveyor."
The section concludes with a provision that the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, "in order to enable the
said Commissioners to proceed speedily and efficiently to carry
out the purposes of this act," may, with the approval of the
commission before named, appoint two civilian assistants to
the engineer commissioner, who, with him, under the direction
of the Commissioners, shall have immediate charge of the
work to be done under this act.
Section 3 provides that "when any such map shall have
been recorded as aforesaid in the office of the surveyor of the
District, it shall be lawful for the owner of any land included
within such imal) to adopt the subdivision, thereby made, by a
reference thereto and to this section in any deed or will which
he shall thereafter make; and when any deed or will containing any such reference shall have been made and recorded in
the proper office, it shall have the same effect as though the
grantor or grantors in such deed, or the maker of such will,
had made such subdivision and recorded the same in compliance with law."
By section 4, "for the purpose of making surveys for such
plans and maps, the Commissioners, and their agents and
employ6s necessarily engaged in making such surveys, are
authorized to enter upon any lands through or on whiclh any
projected highway or reservation may run or lie." And by
section 5, "the Commissioners of the District of Columbia are
authorized to name all streets, avenues, alleys and reservations
laid out or adopted under the provisions of this act."
Then follow sections 6 to 14 inclusive, containing provisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

for the condemnation of a permanent right of way for the
public, and for the assessment of compensation or damages to
the owners of lands by a jury of seven men, as follows:
By section 6, " within thirty days after any such map shall
have been recorded as aforesaid, which shall alter any highway
or highways in any then existing subdivision in the area included in such map, or which shall dispense with any highway
or highways, or any part thereof, in any such subdivision, the
Commissioners of the District of Columbia shall make application to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, holding
a special term as a district court of the United States, by
written petition, praying the condemnation of a permanent
right of way for the public over all the land lying within the
limits of such subdivision, not already owned by the United
States or the District of Columbia or dedicated to public use
as a highway, which shall be included within the highways or
reservations laid out by the Commissioners and indicated on
such map. Upon the filing of such petition, the said court in
special term shall proceed to condemn a permanent right of
way for the public over said land, in the manner hereinafter
proVided."
By section 7, "as t6 any highway or highways, or part of
any highway or highways, laid down upon any such map,
which shall not lie within the limits of any existing subdivision, the Commissioners at any time thereafter, when in their
judgment the public convenience shall require the opening of
the same, or of any part thereof, may make application as
aforesaid to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
holding a special term as aforesaid, for the condemnation and
opening of the same; and said court in special term as aforesaid shall thereupon proceed, in the manner hereinafter provided, to condemn a permanent right of way for the public
over all the land, not already owned by the United States or
the District of Columbia or dedicated to public use as a highway, included within the highway or highways, or part of a
highway or highways, described in such application: Provided, that in such case the court, after public notice shall
have been given as hereinafter directed, shall first hear evi-

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

dence as to whether the public convenience does in fact
require the immediate opening of. the highway or highways,
or part of any highway or highways, described in such application, and shall determine that question on the evidence submitted to it; and if the court shall, as to any part of the land
sought to be condemned, decide such question in the negative,
it shall proceed no further as to such part at that time. And
if the court, after such notice and hearing, shall determine
that the public convenience does not in fact require the immediate opening of any highway or highways or any part thereof
described in such application, no further proceedings shall be
had under such application."
Section 8 provides that "when any application shall have
been filed in said court in special term under the preceding
sections of this act," the court shall cause public notice of not
less than thirty days to be given of such application, "which
notice shall warn all persons having any interest in the proceedings to attend the court at a day to be named in said
notice, and to continue in attendance until the court shall
have made a final order in the premises"; and, "after such
notice shall have been given, shall take no further step until
the time limited thereby shall have expired, and shall afford
all parties in interest a reasonable opportunity to be heard
during the proceedings"; and shall, whenever it is practicable to do so, cause a similar notice to be served upon each
of the owners of the land sought to be condemned, and
upon the attorney of the United States for the District of
Columbia.
Section 9 provides that "when the object of any such application to said court shall be, in whole or in part, to rectify or
change an existing subdivision, the court, immediately after
the expiration of the time limited in such notice, shall proceed
without delay to make the required condemnation, so far as it
shall relate to any lands within such subdivision; and as to any
lands not lying within the limits of an existing subdivision
which is sought to be rectified or changed, the court shall
proceed in like manner only after it shall have determined, as
hereinbefore provided, that the public convenience requires

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the condemnation, and then only to the extent which the
public convenience shall require."
Section 10 is as follows: "When any right of way is
to
be condemned under this act, said court in special term shall
cause a jury of seven judicious, disinterested men, not related
to any person interested in the proceedings, and not in the
service or employment of the District of Columbia or of the
United States, to be summoned by the marshal; and shall
administer to the jury an oath or affirmation that they will,
without favor or partiality to any one, to the best of their
judgment, determine such questions as may be submitted to
them by the court during the proceedings. The court, before
accepting the jury, shall hear any objections that may be
made to any member thereof, and shall have full power to
decide on all such objections, and to excuse any juror, and to
cause any vacancies in the jury to be filled. When the jury
shall have been organized, the court and the jury shall hear
and receive such evidence as may be offered or submitted on
behalf of the District of Columbia, or on behalf of the United
States, or by any person having any interest in the proceedings; and the proceedings shall be conducted, as nearly as
may be, as civil caseg triable by jury are now conducted in
said district; but the order of proof shall be in the discretion
of the court. Upon the motion of any party ininterest, the
court may direct the jury to view the premises under consideration, under such regulations as the court may prescribe.
When the hearing is concluded, the jury, or a majority
thereof, shall render a written verdict in such form as may be
prescribed or submitted to the jury by the court, which verdict shall be signed by the jurors, or by a majority of them,
and filed in the court. The court shall have power to set
aside such verdict, when satisfied that the same is unjust or
unreasonable. One jury may be sworn, and one trial had, as to
all or any of the parcels of land involved in the proceeding,
at the discretion of the court ; and where the jury shall have
rendered a verdict as to more than one parcel of land, the
court may set aside the verdict as to one or more parcels, and
confirm it as to the others. When the verdict of the jury, in

BAUMAN

v. ROSS.

Opinion of the Court.

whole or in part, shall have been so set aside, a new jury
shall be summoned, and the proceedings continued, until the
court shall have confirmed a verdict as to all the land involved
in the proceeding."
Section 11 provides that " where the use of a part only of
any parcel or tract of land shall be condemned in such a proceeding, the jury, in assessing the damages therefor, shall
take into consideration the benefit [that] the purpose for
which it is taken may be to the owner or owners of such tract
or parcel by enhancing the value of the remainder of the same,
and shall give their verdict accordingly; and the court may
require, in such case, that the damages and the benefits shall
be found and stated separately."
Section 12 provides that no'trial under this act shall fail by
reason of the death or disability of any juror during the proceedings, provided the verdict is "concurred in by a majority
of a complete jury."
Section 13 is as follows: "No evidence shall be offered or
received by the jury as to the persons who will be entitled to
receive -the compensation that may be awarded as to any parcel of land. If any question shall arise as to whether any
person claiming a right to be heard is in fact interested in the
proceedings, the court shall hear and determine the question
in a summary way, and in cases of doubt shall permit the
party to be heard. The verdict of the jury shall state, as to
each parcel of land involved in the proceeding, only the
amount of compensation, less thQ benefits, if any, which it
shall award in respect thereof, and shall not contain any finding as to the ownership of the land, or the persons entitled to
the compensation."
Section 14 fixes the compensation of each juror at five dollars
a day.
Section 15 provides for assessing and charging the amount
awarded as damages, one half upon the lands benefited, and
other half upon the District of Columbia, as follows: "That
the amount awarded by said court as damages for each highway or reservation, or part thereof, condemned and established under this act, shall be one half assessed against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

land benefited thereby, and the other half shall be charged
up to the revenues of the District of Columbia; that one half
of the amount awarded by said court as damages for each
highway or reservation, or part thereof, condemned and established under this act, shall be charged upon the lands benefited
by the laying out and opening of such highway or reservation, or part thereof, and the remainder of said amount shall
be charged to the revenues of the District of Columbia. The
same jury which shall assess the damages caused by the opening of any highways or reservation, or part thereof, or by the
.abandonment of an existing highway or part thereof, shall
ascertain and determine what property is thereby benefited,
and shall assess against each parcel which it shall find to be
so benefited its proper proportional part of the whole of said
one half of the damages: Provided, that in making such
assessment for benefits the jury shall, as to any tract a part
of which shall have been taken for such highway or reservation, or part thereof, make due allowance for the amount, if
any, which shall have been deducted from the value of the
part taken, on account of the benefit to the remainder of
the tract. The proceedings of the court and the jury, in
making assessments for benefits under this section, shall conform as nearly as is practicable to the foregoing provisions of
this act relating to the assessment of damages; and the verdict
of the jury, making an assessment under this section as to any
parcel of land, shall not be conclusive until the same shall
have been confirmed by the court. When confirmed by the
court, the assessment so made shall be a lien upon the land
assessed, and shall be collected as special improvement taxes
in the District of Columbia have been collected since February
twenty-first, eighteen hundred and seventy-one" (that is to
say, as all other taxes are collected; act of February 21, 1871,
c. 62, § 37; 16 Stat. 427; Rev. Stat. D. C. § 151); "and shall
be payable in five equal annual instalments, with interest at
the rate of four per centum per annum from the date of the
confirmation of the assessment by the court. That no expense for the improvement of any street, circle, reservation or
avenue laid out under the provisions of this act, outside the

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

cities of Washington and Georgetown, shall be chargeable to
the Treasury of the United States, but such expense shall be
paid solely out of the revenues of the District of Columbia."
Section 16 prescribes the mode of ordering the payment
and distribution of the compensation or damages to and
among the persons entitled to receive the same, as follows:
"When said court shall have assessed the damages to be paid
as to any parcel of land the use of which shall have been condemned, or which shall have been injured by the abandonment of a previously existing highway, and there shall be no
controversy as to the persons who are entitled to receive, the
same, or as to the distribution of the same among them, said
court shall decree such payment to be made; and upon presentation of a duly certified copy of such decree to the Treasurer of the United States he shall report the same to Congress
for consideration and action, and shall make such payment to
the person or persons appearing by such decree to be entitled
thereto, as Congress may provide. But where any such controversy shall exist, or where there shall be any doubt as to
the proper disposition of the compensation awarded, the court
shall order that the damages assessed by it, involved in such
controversy or doubt, shall be paid into the registry of the
court; and upon the presentation of a duly certified copy
of such order to the Treasurer of the United States he shall,
when the necessary money is appropriated, pay the amount
therein mentioned to the clerk of said court; and -the claims
of. the respective parties thereto shall thereupon be heard and
decided by the court as in interpleader suits in equity, under
such general rules as may be prescribed by said court in
general term."
Section 17, as originally passed, provided for appeals from
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia in special
term to the same court in general term; but, as amended
by the act of January 21, 1896, c. 5, provides that any party
aggrieved may appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia, upon questions of law only, from "the final
order 6r decree of said court in special term, fixing the
amount of damages, or the assessment for benefits, as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

any parcel of land"; and, upon questions both of law and

of fact, "from a final judgment of said court in special term
under this act, distributing the damages among contending
.claimants"; and further provides that "from any judgment
or order of said Court of Appeals, involving any question as
to the constitutionality of this act, or of any part thereof,"
any party aggrieved may appeal to this court, and this
court "shall determine only the question of constitutionality
involved in the case." 29 Stat. 2.
Section 18 makes payment of the damages to the parties,
or into court, an absolute condition of the taking possession
of the land by the Commissioners, and of the validity of the
proceedings, and is as follows: "Whenever any final decree
shall have been made by said court, under the provisions of
this act, for the payment of the damages to the parties, or
into the registry of the court, and when the money has been
appropriated and paid, the Commissioners shall be entitled to
take immediate possession of the parcel of land in regard to
which said order of payment shall have been made, and the
court shall enforce such right of possession by proper order,
and by process addressed to the marshal of the United States
for the District of C61umbia. In case the court shall enter
judgment of condemnation in any case, and appropriation is
not made by Congress for the payment of such award within
the period of six months, Congress being in session for that
time after such award, or for the period of six months after
the meeting of the next session of Congress, the proceedings
shall be void, and the land shall revert to the owners."
The nineteenth and concluding section requires the Commissioners of the District of Columbia to include in their
annual report a full statement of their action, and an estimate of necessary expenditures, under this act.
Pursuant to sections 1 and 2 of the act of 1893, a plan, in
sections, was prepared and adopted by the Commissioners of
the District of Columbia, and a map thereof was approved by
the commission named insection 2, and was filed and recorded
in the surveyor's office, for the extension of a permanent system of highways in so much of the area of the District of

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

Columbia as is bounded on the east by North Capitol street,
on the west by Rock Creek, on the north by the boundary
line of the District, and on the south by Florida avenue,
formerly Boundary street, and containing forty-seven existing suburban subdivisions.
On September 27, 1895, within thirty days after the recording of the map, the Commissioners presented to, the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia a separate petition, under
section 6, for the condemnation of a permanent right of way
for the public over all the land lying within the linits of each
of those subdivisions, among which were one known as Dennison and Leighton's subdivision of a part of Mount Pleasant
and Mount Pleasant Plains, and through which Sixteenth
street, if extended, would pass; and another known as the
Ingleside subdivision, through parts of which would pass extensions of Seventeenth, Eighteenth and Nineteenth streets.
Upon the petition relating to each of these two subdivisions,
due publication of notice was made, as required by section 6,
and some owners of lands appeared and filed answers, alleging
that the act was unconstitutional.
Upon the petition relating to the Dennison and Leighton
subdivision, a jury of seven was summoned and organized,
pursuant to section 10 ; and, after a trial before Justice Cox,
and the introduction of evidence by the petitioners and by the
respondents, rendered a verdict, in the form prescribed by the
court, setting forth a description of each parcel of land affected; the number of square feet in the parcel; the number
of square feet taken; the number of square feet not taken;
the compensation for land taken; the compensation for buildings taken; the damages to the remainder of the parcel, including damages to the buildings; the benefits to the remainder
of the parcel; and the award, being for compensation and
damages, less benefits.
On February 5, 1896, on motion of the respondents, Jistice
Cox ordered and adjudged that the verdict be set aside, and
the petition dismissed, on the ground that the act of 1893 was
unconstitutional and void, for the reasons stated in his opinion
filed on the same day. In that opinion, the learned judge
VOL. CLXVII-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Coart.

admitted it to be established by the weight of authority that,
under the right of eminent domain, the special benefits to an
individual lot, of which a. part was condemned, could properly
be set off against or deducted from the amount found due as
the value of the land appropriated and as special damage
to the remainder of the tract or parcel; and that, under the
legislative power of taxation, an assessment might be laid
upon such remainder and other lands in the neighborhood, for
the general benefits derived from the existence of the new
street. But he held that either a deduction for special benefits,
or an assessment for general benefits, should be for benefits
which, if not immediately realized, should be at least so far
present as to be certain and presently ascertainable; that the
act of 1893, in a proceeding (such as this was) under section
6, relating to a highway through an existing subdivision, simply required a condemnation of the right of way, and did not,
as in a proceeding under section 7 relating to'lands not within
an existing subdivision, also require an immediate opening of
the highway; that the act authorized the taking of private
property for public use, and attempted to pay for it partly in
future and contingent benefits, and failed to provide for the
just compensation required by the Constitution to be made,
and was therefore an unconstitutional appropriation of private
property, which the courts could not carry out; and consequently that section 11, as applied to the case, was unconstitutional and void, and the whole proceeding must be set aside.
He further suggested, although not deciding, that section 15,
providing for an assessment of half the damages upon the
lands deriving a general benefit from the highway, could not
be carried out, because, while committing that assessment to
the same jury, it fixed neither the taxing district, nor the rule
of apportionment; and also observed that "the recording of
the map by the Commissioners, if nothing is done in pursuance
of this step, is only a less injury to the lot-owners than taking
their property without paying for it." 24 Washington Law
Reporter, 65-71.
From that judgment, the Commissioners appealed to the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, which, in an

BAUMAN

v. ROSS.

Opinion of the Court.

opinion delivered by Justice Shepard, Justice Morris concurring, reached the following conclusions:
1st. That under the last clause of the Fifth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States, "nor shall private property be taken for public use without just compensation," this
just compensation means "the actual value of the property
taken, payable in money, and without diminution on account
of benefits general or special," although special benefits might
be considered in respect of a -claim for damages done to the
adjacent land not actually taken; and therefore that "so
much, at least, of section 11, as provides for the diminution of
the just compensation for the value of the land taken'to the
extent of benefits accruing to the remainder, is beyond the
power of Congress, and therefore void."
2d. That, "in so far as the general principle of the assessment established by section 15 of this act is concerned, there
can be no substantial objection;, it is fair, liberal and regular";
but that "section 15 is inoperative by failure to conform to the
necessary operation of sections 6 and 7. To accomplish the
object of speedy condemnation and rectification of streets in
localities, where important, some provision should have been
made for the creation of definite taxing districts, including
one or several subdivisions and sections adjacent, where it
might appear to be expedient and just, so that the work of
condemnation, laying off, and assessment of expenses of
streets could take place promptly without complication with
others. Another defect is that the assessments, when confirmed by the court, shall bear interest from date of such confirmation, notwithstanding the fact that Congress may not
accept them, if at all, for a year, possibly, under the provisions of section 18."
3d. "That Congress has made no appropriation for the immediate payment of the compensation that may be assessed
does not render the act invalid."
4th. That the invalidity of sections 11 and 15 does not
make the act as a whole inoperative and void.
5th. That the record of the maps, provided for in the act,
does not amount to "a taking of the land, in the sense that it

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

interferes with the enjoyment thereof by the owners to an
injurious extent, beyond the power of Congress, without a
provision for compensation."
The result was that the judgment was reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to modify the judgment in so
far as it dismissed the petition, and to reinstate the cause for
further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of the
Court of Appeals. 8 App. D. C. 393.
Chief Justice Alvey filed a separate opinion, holding section
11 to be constitutional and valid, and in this respect dissenting
from his associates; but substantially concurring in the rest
of their opinion, and holding section 15 to be "impossible of
execution," and "nugatory for the want of certainty," in the
following 'respects: "This power of assessment for benefits,
as given in this section of the act, is without territorial limitation, and may extend into other subdivisions, and the same
lots or parcels of land may be subject to assessments by other
juries thereafter called upon to make assessments upon land
benefited." "It entirely fails to define or prescribe the district or territory within which the benefits may.be assessed.
Whether confined to the particular subdivision in which the
highway or street may be condemned and established, or
whether such benefits may be assessed against land beyond
the limits of such subdivision along the line of such improvement, as extended into or through adjoining subdivisions, the
act is entirely silent. Nor is there any provision conferring
authority upon commissioners, or upon the court, to define
such taxing district. And the act wholly fails to provide how
the assessment shall be apportioned - whether with reference
to the existing value of the land, or to the amount of benefit
only that may be derived from the improvement when made."'
8 App. D. C. 427-429.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, upon receiving the mandate of the Court of Appeals, set aside the verdict,
so far as it allowed or assessed any benefits, and gave judgment thereon, so far as it awarded compensation and damages
to the owners of lands. From this judgment the Commissioners, as well as one of the land-owners, appealed to the

BAUMAN

v. ROSS.

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals, which affirmed the judgment. Both parties
took appeals to this court, being Nos. 633 and 634.
Immediately after the original trial of the case of the Dennison and Leighton subdivision, the case of the Ingleside subdivision was submitted to the same jury, and a verdict was
returned in similar form, which, after the first decision of the
Couit of Appeals, above mentioned, and in accordance with
that decision, was partly set aside, and partly affirmed, by a
final judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. The Commissioners, as well as some of the land-owners,
appealed to the Court of Appeals, which affirmed the judgment; and both parties took appeals to this court, being Nos.
631 and 632.
The effect of the decision of the Court of Appeals is that
the owner of a parcel of land, a right of way over part of
which is condemned under this statute, is entitled to recover
the full value of the part taken, free of any deduction for
special benefits -o the remainder, or of any assessment for the
general benefits received by it in common with other lands in
the neighborhood.
In entering upon the c(vusideration of the correctness of that
conclusion, the precedents ia the District of Columbia, bearing upon the subject, are significant, especially as showing
the practical construction by Congress of the constitutional
provision.
In the city of Washington, the lines of streets and avenues
and public squares and reservations were defined and established by the original plan of the city; and the absolute and
unqualified title in fee in the lands within those lines was
vested in the United States by deeds of conveyance from the
proprietors of the lands, or by proceedings of condemnation
under statutes of Maryland, upon the original laying out of
the city. Burch's Digest, 217-224, 330, 337; Comp. Stat.
D. C. pp. 654-660; Van NAess v. Washington, 4 Pet. 232;
Potomac Steamboat Co. v. Upper Potomac Steamboat Co., 109
U. S. 672, 680, 681; -Districtof Columbia v. Baltimoreic&
Potomac Railroad, 114 U. S. 453, 460-. Congress, therefore,
had little or no occasion to provide for the taking of lands,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

under the right of eminent domain, for streets and high ways
within the city of Washington.
But Congress early began to legislate on the subject of laying out streets and highways in other parts of the District of
Columbia, and to provide both for taking into consideration
benefits as well as injuries in the assessment of damages sustained by owners of lands, and for assessing and charging upon
the persons and lands benefited the amount of such damages.
Georgetown was incorporated under the statute of Maryland of 1789, c. 23, amended by the statute of 1797, c. 56. 2
Kilty's Stat. Two early acts of Congress, amending the
charter of Georgetown, contained provisions for the opening
and extension of streets, as follows:
By the act of Congress of March 3, 1805, c. 32, § 12, the
corporation of Georgetown was empowered, in general terms,
"to open, extend and regulate streets within the limits of said
town; provided they make to the person or persons, who may
be injured by such opening, extension or regulation, just and
adequate compensation, to be ascertained by the verdict of an
impartial jury, to be summoned and sworn by a justice of the
peace of the county of Washington, and to be formed of
twenty-three men, who shall proceed in like manner as has
been usual in other cases where private property has been
condemned for public use." 2 Stat. 335. The usual manner,
under the statutes of Maryland, thus referred to, of estimating
the compensation or damages to be awarded to the owners of
land for opening or extending a street, had been by inquiring what damages they would "actually suffer from the
passing of the road over the land," "taking into consideration
all conveniences and inconveniences, advantages and disadvantages, arising thereby," or "all benefits and inconveniences." Hierty's Digest, (1799) p. 459; Maryland Stats. 1790,
c. 32, § 8; 1798, c. 77, § 4; 1799, c. 32,,§ 2; 1792, c. 27, § 3;
1798, c. 19, § 3; 2 Kilty's Stat.
The supplementary act of March 3, 1809, c. 30, after defining anew the limits of Georgetown, provided in section 4 as
follows: "The said corporation shall have power to lay out,
-open, extend and regulate streets, lanes and alleys, within the

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

limits of the town, as before described, under the following
regulations, that is to say: the mayor of the town shall summon twelve freeholders, inhabitants of the town, not directly
interested in the premises, who, being first sworn to assess
and value what damages would be sustained by any person or
persons by reason of the opening or extending any street, lane
or alley, (taking all benefits and inconveniences into consideration,) shall proceed to assess what damages would be sustained
by any person or persons whomsoever, by reason of such
opening or. extension of the street, and shall also 'declare to
what amount in moiey each individual benefited thereby shall
contribute and pay towards compensating the person or persons injured by reason of such opening and extension; and
the names of the person or persons so benefited, and the sums
which they shall respectively be obliged to pay, shall be returned under their hands and seals to the clerk of the corporation, to be filed and kept in his office; and the person or
persons benefited by opening or extending any street, and
assessed as aforesaid, shall respectively pay the sums of money so
charged and assessed to them, with interest thereon at the rate of
six per cent per annum, from the time limited for the payment
thereof until paid; and the sums of money assessed and charged
in manner aforesaid to each individual benefited in manner
aforesaid shall be a lien upon and bind all the property so benefited to the full amount thereof: Provided always, that no
street, lane or alley shall be laid out, opened or extended, until
the damages assessed to individuals in consequence thereof,
shall have been paid, or secured to be paid." 2 Stat. 537., 538.
That provision of that act, in its leading features,-was singularly like the act of 1893 now in question. Like this act, it provided that the jury, in assessing the damages sustained by any
person by reason of the opening or extension of a street, should
take into consideration the benefits to him; that the same
jury, which assessed the damages, should also ascertain what
landowners were benefited by the opening or extension, and
what sums they should respectively pay towards the damages;
that these sums should be a lien on the property benefited,
and should bear interest until paid; and that the street should

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

not be laid out, opened or extended, until the damages were
paid or secured. The act of March 3, 1809, has more than
once been brought before this court, without a doubt of its
constitutionality being expressed.
Goszler v. Georgetown,
(1821) 6 Wheat. 593; ttannewinkle v. Georgetown, (1872) 15
Wall. 547.
In later acts authorizing the laying out of highways, or the
construction of other public improvements, in the District of
Columbia, Congress has repeatedly made provision for the
deduction of benefits in estimating the compensation to be
paid to an owner of land, whether for the value of the part
taken, or for damages to,the rest, even if the result should be
to leave nothing payable to the owner.
The act of Congress of July 1, 1812, c. 117, § 13, authorized
the corporations of Washington and Georgetown, or either of
them, to build a bridge across Rock, Creek; and the mayor to
summon a jury of twelve disinterested freeholders, each of
whom should be sworn to '.'justly, faithfully and impartially
value all the ground held as private property and intended
and required to be used or occupied by reason of the contemplated erection of the permanent bridge, and the amount of
damages the proprietor or proprietors of said ground will sustain, (taking into view at the same time the benefits which
the said proprietor or proprietors will derive- from the erection of the said bridge,) according to the best of his skill ande
judgment ; and the inquisition and valuation thereupon taken
shall be signed by the mayor and seven or more of the said
jury, and shall be binding and-conclusive upon all parties concerned." , 2 Stat. 773, 774.
A statute of Virginia of January 27, 1824, incorporating
the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, approved and
accepted by a statute of Maryland of January 31, 1825, and
ratified and confirmed, for the purpose of enabling the corporation to carry into effect the provisions thereof in the District of Columbia, by 'the act of Congress of March 3, 1825,
c. 52, provided, in section 15, that a jury of not less than
twelve, out of eighteen summoned for the purpose, should
"value the land and all damages the owner thereof shall sus-

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

tain by cutting the canal through such land, or the partial or
temporary appropriation, use or occupation of such land";
and that, "in every such valuation and assessment of damages," the jury should be "instructed to consider, in determining and fixing the amount thereof, the actual benefit which
will accrue to the owner from conducting the said canal
through, or erecting any of said works upon his land, and to
regulate their verdict thereby; except that no assessment
shall require any such owner to pay or contribute anything
to the said company where such benefit shall exceed, in the
estimate of the jury, the value and damages ascertained as
aforesaid." 4 Stat. 101, 793, 798, 801.
An inquisition under that act, condemning land in Georgetown for the use of the canal, having been returned into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, was objected to by the owner of the land, upon the
ground that no provision had been made for just compensation, as required by the Constitution. Chief Justice Craneh,
in overruling the objection, said:
"It is contended, that the Constitution provides a positive,
not a conjectural compensation; that under the provisions of
this charter, it may happen that no compensation at all may
be made; that the expected benefits which the jury shall have
estimated may never arrive; and that, therefore, the jury
should not have been required, by the charter, to consider
them in their estimate of value and damages.
"But the Constitution only provides for the general principle. The means of ascertaining the just compensation were
left to be decided by the public authority which should give
the power to take the private property for public use. All
the States, prior to the adoption of the Constitution, exercised
this right, and still continue to exercise it where it is necessary
to condemn land for roads and other public uses; and they
have generally provided for compensation through the intervention of a jury.
"It is impossible for the legislature to fix the compensation
in every individual case. It can only provide a tribunal to
examine the circumstances of each case, and to estimate the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

just compensation. If the jury had not been required by the
charter to consider the benefit, as well as the damage, they
would still have been at liberty to do. so, for the Constitution
does not require that the value should be paid, but that just
compensation should be given. Just compensation means a
compensation that would be just in regard to the public, as
well as in regard to the individual; and if the jury should
be satisfied that the individual would, by the proposed public
work, receive a benefit to the full value of the property taken,
it could not be said to be a just compensation to give him the
full value. If the jury would have a right to consider the
benefit, as well the damage, without the provision of the charter which requires them to do so, the same objection would
still exist, namely, that under the. provisions of the charter it
might happen that no compensation at all, or, at most, a nominal compensation, would be made. The insertion, therefore,
of that provision in the charter which requires the jury to do
what they would be competent to do without such a provision,
and which, in order to ascertain a compensation which should
be just towards the public as well as just towards the individual, they ought to do, cannot be considered as repugnant to the
Constitution."
Chesapeake & Ohio Canal v. Key, (1829) 3
Cranch C. C. 599, 601.
A year later, a similar inquisition returned into the same
court was objected to, because the jury had not found the
value of the land and the damages separately, but had included both in one sum. To which Chief Justice Cranch,
after reading the provision of the statute, above quoted, answered: "The benefits to be derived, therefore, may be as
well set off against the value of the land as against the damages, and we see no reason why the jury may not find the
result in one entire sum." Chesapeake & Ohio Canal v.
Union Bank of Georgetown, (1830) 4 Cranch C. C. 75, 80.
The very words of that provision were repeated in section
13 of the act of Congress of May 26, 1830, c. 104, incorporating the Alexandria Canal Company. 6 Stat. 419, 424.
This legislation of Congress, and these decisions of the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, authorizing the setting

BAUMAN

v. ROSS.

Opinion of the Court.

off of benefits against the value of land taken, as well as
against additional damages, for the construction of a canal,
are in accord with the statement of Chief Justice Waite,
speaking for this court, in 1881, that the construction of a
canal " might confer benefits that would be a just compensation for the private property taken for its use." Kennedy v.
Indianapolis,103 U. S. 599, 605.
From 1812 to 1890, a period of more than three quarters of
a century, the general acts of Congress, authorizing the laying out or altering of public roads in the District of Columbia,
outside the cities of Washington and Georgetown, expressly
provided for the deduction of benefits in the assessment of
damages to the owners of lands.
By section 2 of the act of July 1, 1812, c. 117, the levy
court of the county of Washington was authorized to lay out,
straighten and repair such public roads ; and by section 3 a
warrant might be issued to the marshal of the District of
Columbia to summon a jury of twelve disinterested freeholders, and to administer to each of them an oath to "justly,
faithfully and impartially value the land and all damages the
owner thereto will sustain by the road passing through the
same, having regard to all circumstances of convenience, benefit or disadvantage, according to the best of his skill and judgment; and the inquisition thereupon taken shall be signed by
the marshal and seven or more of the said jury, and shall be
conclusive." 2 Stat. 771, 772. Like proceedings for the condemnation of lands were provided for in the similar act of
May 3,1862, c. 63, § 5; 12 Stat. 384.
In 1863, the same court, whenever it should "deem it conducive to the public interests, to open a new road, or change
the course of an old one," was authorized to order the route
to be surveyed, and the road to be recorded and opened; and
to direct the marshal "to summon a jury of seven judicious
disinterested men, not related to any party interested, to be
and appear on the premises on a day specified to assess the
damages, if any, which each owner of land through which
the road is to pass may sustain by reason thereof" ; "but in
doing this they shall take into consideration the benefit it

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

may be to him or her by enhancing the value of his or her
land, or otherwise, and give their verdict accordingly," signed
by the jury, or by a majority of them, and attested by the
marshal. If the court or any land-owner was dissatisfied
with that verdict, the matter might be submitted to a jury
of twelve, proceeding as before, the verdict of whom, or of
a majority of whom, was final. Act of March 3, 1863, c. 106,
§ 8; 12 Stat. 801, 802.
By the act of May 9, 1866, c. 76, empowering the levy court
"to declare and locate as public highways such roads known
and used as military roads in said district during the rebellion, as said court may deem advisable," "the damages which
the owners of the land over which said roads pass shall sustain by reason of said roads being declared public highways"
were to be assessed as provided in the act of July 1, 1812,
c. 117, § 3, above quoted. 14 Stat. 45.
In 1871, upon the creation of a government for the District
of Columbia, with a governor and a legislative assembly, the
levy court was abolished, and its powers over public roads
under the act of 1863 were vested in the board of public
works. Act of February 21, 1871, c. 62, §§ 1, 18, 40; 16 Stat.
419, 423, 428; Laws of D. C. of 1871, c. 76, § 2. In 1874, When
all provisions of law providing for a governor, a legislative
assembly and a board of public works in the District of
Columbia were repealed, the provisions of the act of 1863
upon the subject of highways were substantially reenacted,
substituting "the proper authorities" for the levy court, in
the Revised Statutes of the District of Columbia, chapter 11,
§§ 252-265; it being provided in section 260 of these statutes
that the jury should "decide what damages, if any, each
owner may sustain by reason of running the road through
his premises," and in section 261 that "in making their decision the jury shall take into consideration the benefit such
road may be to each owner by enhancing the value of his
land, or otherwise, and shall give their verdict accordingly."
'By subsequent acts, the powers of the board of public works
have been vested in the Commissioners of the District of
Columbia. Acts of June 20, 1874, c. 337, §§ 1, 2; 18,Stat.

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

116; June 11, 1878, c. 180, § 2; 20 Stat. 103; Comp. Stat.
D. C. c. 29.
Again, by the act of April 15, 1886, c. 50, § 4, authorizing
the construction of the Congressional Library Building, the
damages occasioned by the taking of land for that purpose
were to be ascertained and assessed "in the manner provided
with reference to the taking of land for highways in the District of Columbia," that is to say, according to chapter 11 of
the Revised Statutes of the District. 24 Stat. 13.
By the act of August 30, 1890, c. 837, § 3, it was provided
that "the value of the interests of all persons, respectively,"
in land taken for the enlargement of the Government Printing Office, should be appraised by three commissioners appointed by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
upon the application of the special board created by the act;
and it was further provided that thereafter, "in all cases of
the taking of property in the District of Columbia for public
use," the like proceedings should be had upon the application
of the proper officers. 26 Stat. 413. But the object of these
provisions would appear to have been to make a change only
in the persons who should assess the compensation, not in the
rule of assessment, And by the act of August 7, 1894, c. 232,
it was enacted that section 3 of the act of 1890 should "not
be construed to apply to the condemnation of land for public
highways, nor to repeal chapter 11 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States relating to the District of Columbia, in
regard to public highways, roads and bridges." 28 Stat. 251.
The power of Congress, exercising the right of eminent
domain within the District of Columbia, to provide for the
deduction of benefits from the compensation or damages for
taking part of a parcel of land and injuring the rest, does not
appear ever to have been judicially questioned until it was
denied by a majority of the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia within the last two or three years. District of
Columbia v. Prospect Hill Cemetery, 5 App. D. C. 497; -Maryland & Washington Railway v. Hiller, 8 App. D. C. 289; District of Columbia v. Armes, 8 App. D. C. 393.
The position thus assumed by the majority of that court is

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

not only against the uniform course of previous legislation
and decision in the District of Columbia, but it is opposed to
the great preponderance of the authorities elsewhere.
In the Fifth Article of the earliest amendments to the
Constitution of the United States, in the nature of a Bill of
Rights, the inherent and necessary power of the Government
to appropriate private property to the public use is recognized,
and the rights of private owners are secured, by the declaration, "nor shall private property be taken for public use without just compensation."
The right of eminent domain, as was said by this court,
speaking through the Chief Justice, in a recent case, "is the
offspring of political necessity, and is inseparable from sovereignty unless denied to it by its fundamental law. It cannot
be exercised, except upon condition that just compensation
shall be made to the owner; and it is the duty of the State,
in the conduct of the inquest by which the compensation is
ascertained to see that it is just, not merely to the individual
whose property is taken, but to the public which is to pay for
it." Searl v. Lake County School -District,133 U. S. 553, 562.
The just compensation required by the Constitution to be
made to the owner is to be measured by the loss caused to him
by the appropriation. He is entitled to receive the value of
what he has been deprived of, and no more. To award him
less would be unjust to him; to award him more would be
unjust to the public.
Consequently, when part only of a parcel of land is taken
for a highway, the value of that part is not the sole measure
of the compensation or damages to be paid to the owner;
but the incidental injury or benefit to the part not taken is
also to be considered. When the part not taken is left in
such shape or condition, as to be in itself of less value than
before, the owner is entitled to additional damages on that
account. When, on the other hand, the part which he
retains is specially and directly increased in value by the
public improvement, the damages to the whole parcel bythe appropriation of part of it are lessened. If, for example,
by the widening of a street, the part which lies next the

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

street, being the most valuable part of the land, is taken for
the public use, and what was before in the rear becomes the
front part, and upon a wider street, and thereby of greater
value than the whole was before, it is neither just in itself,
nor required by the Constitution, that the owner should be
entitled both to receive the full value of the part taken,
considered as front land, and to retain the increase in value
of the back land, which has been made front land by the
same taking.
Of the overwhelming nuinber of decisions in the courts
of the several States, which support this view, a few of the
most important may conveniently be referred to.
By the Declaration of Rights prefixed to the constitution
of Massachusetts, established in 1780, "whenever the public
exigencies require that the property of any individual should
be appropriated to public uses, he shall receive a reasonable
compensation therefor." Mass. Const. pt. 1, art. 10. By the
statute of Massachusetts of 1786, c. 67, § 4, the court of sessions, upon determining it "to be of common convenience or
necessity " that a new highway or common road should be
laid out, or an old one altered, was authorized to appoint "a
committee of five disinterested sufficient freeholders, in the
same county, to lay out such highway or road," "according
to their best skill and judgment, with most convenience to
the public, and least prejudice or damage to private property"; and it was provided that "if any person be damaged
in his property, by the laying out or altering such highway,"
the town in which the way was should make him "reasonable
satisfaction, according to the estimation of the committee, or
the major part of them"; and any person "aggrieved by the
doings of the said committee, in locating said way, or in estimating damages," might have their doings, in both respects,
reviewed by a sheriff's jury. Although that statute made no
mention of benefits, the Supreme Judicial Court of the State,
in 1807, speaking by Chief Justice Parsons, and laying down
"the principles of law which ought to direct these proceedings," said: "In estimating the damages, the committee are
not confined to the value of the land covered by the road,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

and the expense of fencing the ground. The owner may
suffer much greater damage by the road depriving him of
water, or by otherwise rendering the cultivation of his farm
inconvenient and laborious; or it may happen that the new
highway may essentially benefit his farm, and that he may
suffer very little or no injury by the location. The estimation
ought, therefore, to be according to the damage which the
owner will, in fact, sustain In his property by the opening
of the road." CommonwealtU4 v. Coombs, 2 Mass. 489, 491.
The same rule was recognited in Commonwealth v. Norfolk Sessions, 5 Mass. 435, and in Commonwealth v.

iiddlesew

Sessions, 9 Mass. 388; and, after being constantly acted on
in Massachusetts, was embodied in the Revised Statutes of
1836, in this form: "In estimating the damages sustained
by any person in his property, by the laying out, altering or
discontinuing of any highway, the jury shall take into consideration all the damage done to the complainant, whether
by taking his property, or by injuring it in any manner; and
they shall also allow, by way of set-off, the benefit, if any,
to the property of the complainant, by reason of such laying
out, alteration or discontinuance." Those statutes also provided that damages occasioned by the laying out and maintaining of a railroad should be estimated in the manner
provided in the case of laying out highways. Mass. Rev.
Stat c. 24, § 31; c. 39, § 56. And both provisions have been
reenacted in successive revisions of the statutes. Gen. Stat.
of 1860, c. 43, § 16; c. 63, § 21; Pub. Stat. of 1882, c. 49,
§ 16; c. 112, § 95.
In 1849, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in
an opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Dewey, with the concurrence of Chief Justice Shaw and Justices Wilde, Metcalf and
Fletcher, held that, in estimating the damages for the taking
of land for a railroad, any direct and peculiar benefit, or
actual increase of value, thereby caused to land of the same
owner, adjoining or connected with the land taken, and forming part of the same parcel or tract, was to be considered and
allowed by way of set-off, and in reduction of damages; but
not any general benefit or increase of value to be occasioned

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

to shch land, in common with all the lands in the neighborhood, by the establishment of the railroad and the facilities
connected therewith. The conclusion of the court was summed
up as follows: "The respondents are not to have the benefit
of any increase in value of the petitioner's adjacent land, so
far as he has been benefited by the railroad, merely in common with all the citizens of the neighborhood or village, by
the anticipated general rise of property, by reason of the railroad's passing through the town and in the vicinity of their
lands. It is only the increased value of the land of the petitioner, arising from the location of the road over some part of
it, which is to be taken into consideration. If such location
over the land of the petitioner has raised the value of his adjacent lands, then a reduction or offset is to be allowed the
respondents on that account. It is the increase of value occasioned by the location, and of course has reference to the 9tate
of things existing at the time when the land is taken by the
location." J1leacham v. Fitchburg Railroad,4 Gush. 291, 298,
299. The rule as thus qualified has ever since been applied
in Massachusetts to highways. Allen v. Charlestown, 109
Mass. 243; HIilbourne v. Suffolk, 120 Mass. 393; Cross v.
Plymouth, 125 Mass. 557.
In iNew York, the courts have gone beyond this in allowing
benefits to be taken into consideration in diminution of compensation or damages for land taken for a highway. The constitution of 1821, art. 7, sect. 7, declared, in the very words of
the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,
"nor shall private property be taken for public use without
just compensation." The Court of Errors, in 1831, affirming
a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State, held that the
benefit accruing to the owner of land taken for a street in the
city of New York, by the increased value of adjacent lands
belonging to him, might be set off against the loss or damage
caused to him by the taking, and, if equal to such loss or damage, was a just compensation for the land taken; and Chancellor Walworth, delivering the leading opinion, said: "The
owner of the property taken is entitled to a full compensation
for the damage he sustains thereby; but if the taking of his
VOL. CLXVl-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

property for the public improvement is a benefit rather than
an injury to him, he certainly has no equitable claim to damages. Besides, it is a well settled principle, that where any
particular county, district or neighborhood is exclusively benefited by a public improvement, the inhabitants of that district
may be taxed for the whole expenses of the improvement,
and in proportion to the supposed benefit received by each.
In this case, if the whole value of the property taken for a
street in the city of New York is allowed to the individual
owner, the proprietors of the adjacent lots must be assessed
for the purpose of paying that amount, and if the individual
whose property is taken is the owner of a lot adjacent, that
lot must be assessed ratably with others. It therefore makes
no difference whether he is allowed the whole value of the
property taken in the first instance, and is assessed for his
portion of the damage, or whether the one sum is offset
against the other in the first place, and the balance only is
allowed." Livingston v. New York, 8 Wend. 85, 101, 102.
That decision appears to have since been considered as establishing that both special and general benefits from the laying
out of a street may be set off against the value of the part
taken, as well as against the damages to the remainder. li re
Furman Street, 17 Wend. 649, 659, 671; People v. Brooklyn,
4 N. Y. 419, 435; Granger v. Syracuse, 38 How. Pract. 308;
Genet v. Brooklyn, 99 N. Y. 296, 305; Eldridgev. Binghampton, 120 N. Y. 309, 313; Bohm v. Metropolitan Railroad, 129
IN. Y. 576, 586.
In INew Jersey, in a very recent case, a statute authorizing
the taking of land for a highway, and directing the commissioners "to make a just and equitable estimate and appraisement of the compensation and damages each owner of the
real estate and land to be taken will sustain by reason of
such taking, considering in such appraisal the condition in
which each owner's parcel will be left after taking so much
thereof as will be necessary for said opening, and the benefits
that will result from such road to the owner or owners of
such land and real estate," was held by the Supreme Court,
in an opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Dixon, to be consistent

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

with the provision of the constitution of 1844, art. 1, sect. 16,
that "private property shall not be taken for public use,
without just compensation," for these reasons: "Just compensation for taking part of an entire tract of land for public
use cannot, we think, be ascertained without considering all
the proximate effects of the taking. These are the withdrawal of the part taken from the dominion of the former
owner, the damage done to the residue by the separation, and
the benefit immediately accruing to the residue from the
devotion of the part taken to a certain public use. Just compensation is ascertained by combining the pecuniary value of
all these facts; if any be excluded, what is given is more or
less than is just. The value of the land taken is no more
essential to just compensation than is satisfaction for the
damage done to the residue, nor is it more exempt from
diminution on account of benefits conferred. There is, however, a possibility of benefit to accrue from certain public
uses for which land is taken, like the opening of highways,
which should not be considered, for two reasons: first, because
this benefit is to arise, if at all, in the indefinite future, while
the compensation must be such as is just at the time of the
taking; second, because it is so uncertain in character as to
be incapable of present estimation. Such benefit is that
which may spring from the growth of population, if it should
be attracted by the public improvement for which the land
is taken, and from similar sources. It is usually styled general benefit, because it affects the whole community or neighborhood. But any benefit, which accompanies the act of
taking the land for the contemplated use, and which admits
of reasonable computation, may enter into the award." 'Aanqles v. Hudson Freeholders, 26 Vroom (55 N. J. Law), 88, 92.
The like rule has been upheld by the Court of Errors in the
case of a railroad. Packard v. Bergen Neck Railway, 25
Vroom (54 N. J. Law), 553.
In Pennsylvania, the constitution of 1790,'art. 9, sect. 10,
declared, "nor shall any man's property be taken or applied
to public use," "without just compensation being made"; and
that provision, without material change, has been retained in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the constitution of 1838, art. 9,sect. 10, and in that of 1873,
art. 1, sect. 10. The rule of compensation was tersely stated
by Chief Justice Gibson, in 1821, as follows: "The jury are to
consider the matter just as if they were called on to value the
injury at the moment when compensation could first be demanded; they are to value the injury to the property, without
reference to the person of the owner, or the actual state of
his business; and in doing that, the only safe rule'is, to inquire
what would the property unaffected by the obstruction have
sold for, at the time the injury was committed? What would
it have sold for as affected by the injury? The difference is
the true measure of compensation." Schuylkill Navigation
Co. v. Thoburn, 7 S.& R. 411, 422, The rule, as thus stated,
was recognized by Mr. Justice Strong in Watson v. Pittsburgh
& Connellsville Railroad,37 Penn. St. 469, 481; and in accordance therewith it has been uniformly held that when part of
a parcel of land is taken, direct and special benefits to the rest
of the same parcel, beyond the general increase in the value
of property in the neighborhood, are to be deducted. Plank
Road Co. v. Rea, 20 Penn. St. 97; Railway Co. v. McCloskey,
110 Penn. St. 436 ; Setzler v. Pennsylvania &c.Railroad, 112
Penn. St. 56; Long v. Harrisburg &c. Railroad, 126 Penn.
St. 143.
In Ohio, under the constitution of 1802, art. 8, sect. 4,
which declared, ":private property ought and shall ever be
held inviolate, but always subservient to the public welfare,
provided a compensation in money be made to the owner,"
the Supreme Court of the State, in 1846, held that, in assessing
the compensation for the taking of part of a lot of land for
widening a street, benefits resulting from the improvement to
the residue of the lot, might be set off; and said: "That just,
full and adequate compensation must be made, and in money,
is certain; more cannot be required; but if, in appropriating
property of the value of $4000, when, by the same appropriation, the value of what remains is increased $2000, and the
value of the property taken is the rule of damages, the owner
actually takes $2000 without the least consideration, and receives more than the constitution enjoins to be paid, because

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

it is more than a compensation. The word compensation imports that a wrong or injury has been inflicted, and which
loney must be paid to the
must be redressed in money.
or less than the value of
more
whether
injury,
the
of
extent
is the language of the
view,
our
in,
then,
and
the property;
in our opinion of
confirmed
are
We
constitution satisfied.
on the word
place
we
construction
the correctness of the.
the fact
from
constitution,
the
compensation, as employed in
in,
acquiesced
that such construction has obtained and been
state
the
of
from a period not far short of the organization
government. In the opening of roads, constructing turnpikes
and appropriating lands for canals, benefits conferred have
been constantly and unceasingly deducted from the value
Long
of the property, or damages otherwise sustained.
contemporaneous construction of an instrument is seldom
erroneous, and is always deserving of great consideration,
when the meaning of the instrument is obscure." Symonds
v. Cincinnati, 14 Ohio, 147, 174, 175. The same rule was
followed so long as the constitution of 1802 was in force.
Brown v. Cincinnati, 14 Ohio, 541; Kramer v. Cleveland c6
Pittsburgh Railroad, 5 Ohio St. 140; Columbus &c. Railroad
v. Simpson, 5 Ohio St. 251.
The rule upon the subject was expressed by Mr. Justice
Brewer, when a member of the Supreme Court of the State
of Kansas, as follows: "Outside of any special constitutional
or statutory restrictions, the right of the State to take private
property for public use, and the corresponding right of the
individual to receive compensation for the property thus taken,
may be assumed." "But this compensation is secured if the
individual receive an amount which, with the direct benefits
accruing, will equal the loss sustained by the appropriation.
We of course exclude the indirect and general benefits which
result to the public as a whole, and therefore to the individual as one of the public; for he pays in taxation for his share
of such general benefits. But if the proposed road or other
improvement inure to the direct and spe6ial benefit of the
individual out of whose property a part is taken, he receives
something which none else of the public receive, and it is just

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

that this should be taken into account in determining what is
compensation. Otherwise, he is favored above the rest, and,
instead of simply being made whole, he profits by the appropriation, and the taxes of the others must be increased for his
special advantage. Upon general principles, then, and with
due regard to right and justice, it should be held that the
public may show what direct and special benefits accrue to
an individual claiming road damages, and that these special
benefits should be applied to the reduction of the damages
otherwise shown to have been sustained." "The word 'damages' is of general import, and is equivalent to compensation.
It includes more than the mere value of the property taken,
for often the main injury is not in the value of the property
absolutely lost to the owner, but in the effect upon the balance
of his property of the cutting out of the part taken. He is
damaged, therefore, more than in the value of that which is
taken. Conversely, the appropriation of the part taken to
the new uses for which it is taken may operate to the direct
and special improvement and benefit of that not taken.
Surely, this direct increase in value, this special benefit resulting from the improvement the public is making, and for
which it must be taxed, reduces the damages he has sustained."
JPottawatomie Commissioners v. O'Sullivan, 17
Kansas, 58-60. And the rule has been applied where the
special benefits equalled or exceeded the damages, so that the
owner of the land received nothing. Tobie v. Brown Commissioners, 20 Kansas 14; Trosper v. Sabine Commissioners,
27 Kansas, 391.
Nothing inconsistent with this view was decided or intimated in the opinion of this court, delivered by Mr. Justice
Brewer, in MonongahelaNavigation Co. v. United States, 148
U. S. 312. All that was there said upon this subject was as
follows: "The ' just compensation' is to be a full equivalent
for the property taken. This excludes the taking into account, as an element in the compensation, any supposed benefit that the owner may receive in common with all from the
public uses to which his private property is appropriated; and
leaves it to stand as a declaration that no private property

BAUMAN

v. ROSS.

Opinion of the Court.

shall be appropriated to public uses unless a full and exact
equivalent for it be returned to the owner. We do not in this
refer to the case where only a portion of a tract is taken, or
express any opinion on the vexed question as to-the extent to
which the benefits or injuries to the portion not taken may be
148 U. S. 326. And on the
brought into consideration."
next page the opinion of the Supreme Court of Mississippi in
Isom v. ississippi Central Railroad,36 Mississippi, 300, was
referred to and quoted from, not by way of endorsing the
peculiar views expressed by that court in another part of its
opinion upon the subject of benefits, but only in support of
the general proposition that, while the question what property
is needed for public purposes is to be determined by the legislature, the ascertainment of what is just compensation is a
judicial inquiry. See Marchant v. Pennsylvania Railroad,
153 U. S.380, 385; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad
v. Chicago, 166 U. S.226.
The case, just decided, of Spokane Falls & Northern Railway v. Ziegler, ante, 65, in which the owner of a tract of land,
part of which was taken for a railroad, and the rest thereby
injured, was allowed to recover against the railroad corporation the full value of the land taken, and also the difference in
market value of the part left, "irrespective of the effect on
the market value by reason of the building of the road," was
governed by the express provision of § 2456 of the Code of
Washington Territory, afterwards embodied in art. 1, sect. 16,
of the constitution of the State of Washington, requiring, in
such a case, compensation to be made, "irrespective of any
benefit from any improvement proposed by such corporation."
See Spokane Falls & Northern Railway v. Ziegler, 15 U. S.
App. 472, 478; Enoch v. Spokane Falls & Northern Railway,
6 Wash. St. 393.
The careful collection and classification of the cases upon
this subject in Lewis on Eminent Domain, §§ 465-471, shows
that in the greater number of the States, unless expressly forbidden by constitution or statute, special benefits are allowed
to be set off, both against the value of the part taken, and
against damages to the remainder; that in some of those

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Cpurt.

States general benefits also are allowed to be thus set off ; that

in comparatively few States both kinds of benefits, or at least
special benefits, are allowed to be set off against damages to the
remainder, but not against the value of the part taken; and that
in Mississippi alone benefits are not allowed to be considered
at all. See also Cooley Const. Lim. (6th ed.) 697-702; 2
Dillon Mun. Corp. (4th ed.) §§ 624, 625 ; Randolph on Eminent
Domain, §§ 254-273.
The Constitution of the United States contains no express
prohibition against considering benefits in estimating the just
compensation to be paid for private property taken for the
public use; and, for the reasons and upon the authorities above
stated, no such prohibition can be implied; and it is therefore
within the authority of Congress, in the exercise of the right
of eminent domain, to direct that, when part of a parcel of
land is appropriated to the public use for a highway in the
District of Columbia, the tribunal vested by law with the duty
of assessing the compensation or damages due to the owner,
whether for the value of the part taken, or for any injury to
the rest, shall take into consideration, by way of lessening the
whole or either part of the sum due him, any special and direct
benefits, capable of present estimate and reasonable computation, caused by the establishment of the highway to the part
not taken.
The suggestion, made at the bar, that section 11 of the act in
question, as applied to a proceeding under section 6 relating
to an existing subdivision, allows the jury to deduct contingent
and speculative benefits to arise in the future from the actual
opening and improvement of the highways, may be best met
by recurring to the general scope of the act.
In the first section, Congress directed the Commissioners of
the District of Columbia to prepare a plan for the extension of
a permanent system of highways, throughout that part of the
District lying outside of the cities of Washington and Georgetown, in conformity, as nearly as practicable, with the general
plan of the city of Washingtofi.
But Congress evidently recognized the importance, for the
efficient execution of its scheme, and for the avoidance of un-

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary expenditures, to begin by dealing with those localities
where subdivisions had been made and streets laid out by the
owners of the land, regardless of the general plan; and to
leave the completion of the system through other parts of the
District, in which the:land had not been subdivided, and comparatively few streets had been laid out, to be dealt with
afterwards.
The Commissioners, therefore, by section 2, were required
to prepare their plan of extension in sections, beginning with
the areas covered by existing suburban subdivisions not ,in
conformity with the general plan of the city of Washington,
and to prepare maps of those sections; and, by section 6, were
required, within thirty days after the record of any such map
which should alter or dispense with any highway in any then
existing subdivision in the area included in the map, to pre
sent a petition to the court for condemnation of a permanent
right of way for the public over all lands within that subdivision, not already owned by the United States or the District of Columbia or dedicated to public use as a highway.
And by section 7, petitions as to lands not within existing
subdivisions might be presented to the court at any time
thereafter.
The only substantial, difference between proceedings for
condemnation of a public right of way over lands within an
existing subdivision, under section 6, and over lands not within
an existing subdivision, under section 7, is that, as to lands
within an existing subdivision, the petition to the court must
be presented within thirty days after the recording of the
map, and the court is then to proceed with the condemnation
-Congress, in effect, itself determining that the public convenience requires the immediate establishment of the new
highways- while, as to lands not within any existing subdivision, the petition to the court may be presented at any
time thereafter, and is not to be presented, nor any condemnation made, until the Commissioners and the court, respectively,
have determined that the public convenience requires the immediate opening of the highways in question. Although the
word "opening" does not occur in section 6, while it is used

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

in section 7, yet the authority of the court, as defined in either
section, is only "to condemn a permanent right of way for
the public" over the lands in question, and does not include
the actual laying out and construction of the new highways.
Condemnation, and nothing more, is likewise mentioned in the
corresponding provisions of section 9.
The provisions of section 8, as to notice to parties interested,
and of sections 10-13, as to the summoning and organization
of a jury of seven, and as to their duties in assessing the compensation or damages to land-owners, including the provision
of section 11 for considering benefits in the assessment of
damages, are in terms applicable alike to proceedings under
section 6 and under section 7.
So are the provisions of section 15, which direct the compensation awarded to be assessed and charged, one half upon
the lands benefited, and the other half upon the District of
Columbia; and which, in- the use of the various phrases,
"highway condemned and established under this act," "laying
out and opening of such highway," or simply "'opening of any
highways," evidently treat condemnation, establishment, laying out and opening of a highway as denoting one and the
same thing, the appr6priation or setting apart of land for a
highway and throwing it open to public travel, and have no
regard to the actual grading or construction of the highway.
The provisions of the act which rglate to the deduction of
benefits in assessing compensation or damages are as follows:
Section 11 provides that, "where the use of a part only of
any parcel or tract of land shall be condemned in such a proceeding, the jury, in assessing the damages therefor, shall
take into consideration the benefit the purpose for which it is
taken may be to the owner or owners of such tract or parcel
by enhancing the value of the remainder of the same, and
shall give their verdict accordingly; and the court may
require, in such case, that the damages and the benefitsshall be found and stated separately."
Section 13 provides that "the Verdict of the jury shall
state, as to each parcel of land involved in the proceeding,
only the amount of compensation, less the benefits, if any,

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

which it shall award in respect thereof." And section 15
speaks of the benefits, so deducted, as "the amount, if any,
which shall have been deducted from the value of the part
taken, Jn account of the benefit to the remainder of the
tract."
Construing section 11 in connection with the rest of the
act, the words "the purpose for which it is taken," in the
provision that, when the use of a part only of any parcel or
tract of land is condemned, the jury, in assessing the damages therefor, shall take into consideration the benefit that
"the purpose for which it is taken may be to the owner or
owners of such tract or parcel by enhancing the remainder of
the same," clearly signify the purpose for which it is condemned, the appropriation of the land for a highway, which
is distinct from, and necessarily antecedent to, the actual construction and completion of the way; and the benefits, as
well as the damages, to be taken into consideration, are to be
estimated as of the date of such appropriation. The damages
assessed as of that date constitute the entire compensation for
such appropriation of land for a highway, including all injuries resulting from any change of the natural grade required
in the actual construction of the highway, and also, it would
seem, unless expressly provided otherwise by constitution or
statute, any which may be caused by a future change of the
grade by the public authorities. Goszler v. Georgetown, 6
Wheat. 593; Smith v. Washington, 20 How. 135, 149; Transportation Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635; Chicago v. Taylor, 125
U. S. 161; Wabash Railroadv. Deiance, ante, 88.
The necessary conclusion is that there is nothing unusual
or unconstitutional in the provision of section 11, requiring
benefits to be taken into consideration in assessing the compensation or damages to be awarded to the owners of lands
affected by the establishment of new highways.
The other principal question in the case is of the constitutionality of section 15, which directs "1the amount awarded
by said court as damages for each highway or reservation, or
part thereof, condemned and established under this act," to
be assessed and charged, one half upon the lands benefited

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

thereby, and the other half upon the District of Columbia;
and, as to the first half, enacts that it "shall be charged upon
the lands benefited by the laying out and opening of such
highway or reservation, or part thereof"; that "the same
jury which shall assess the damages caused by the opening
of any highways or reservation, or part thereof, or by the
abandonment of an existing highway, or part thereof, shall
ascertain and determine what property is thereby benefited,
and shall assess against each parcel which it shall find to be
so benefited its proper proportional part of the whole of said
one half of the damages: Provided, that in making such
assessment for benefits the jury shall, as to any tract a part
of which shall have been taken for such highway or reservation, or part thereof, make due allowance for the amount, if
any, which shall have been deducted from the value of the
part taken, on account of the benefit to the remainder of the
tract"; 'that "the proceedings of the court and the jury, in
making assessments for benefits under this section, shall conform as nearly as is practicable to the foregoing provisions of
this act relatink to the assessment of damages; and the verdict of the jury, making an assessment under this section as
to any parcel of land,' shall not be conclusive until the same
shall have been confirmed by the court"; and that, "when
confirmed by the court, the assessment so made shall be a
lien upon the land assessed," and shall be collected as other
taxes are collected, "and shall be payable in five equal
annual instalments, with interest at the rate of four per
centum per annum from the date of the confirmation of the
assessment by the court."
The provisions of this section are to be referred, not to the
right of eminent domain, but to the right of taxation; and
the general principles applicable to this branch of the case
have been affirmed by a series of decisions of this court.
It was contended by some of the owners of lands that the
public improvement proposed was not of a local character, but
was for the advantage of the whole country, and should be
paid for by the United States, and not by the District of
Columbia, or by the owners of the lands affected by the im-

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

provement. But it is for the legislature, and not for the
judiciary, to determine whether the expense of a public improvement should be borne by the whole State, or by the district or neighborhood immediately benefited. The case, in
this respect, comes within the principle upon which this court
held that the legislature of Alabama might charge the county
of Mobile with the whole cost of an extensive improvement
of Mobile harbor; and, speaking by Mr. Justice Field, said:
"The objection urged is that it fastens upon one county the
expense of an improvement for the benefit of the whole State.
Assuming this to be so, it is not an objection which destroys
its validity. When any public work is authorized, it rests
with the legislature, unless restrained by constitutional provisions, to determine in what manner the means to defray its
cost shall be raised. It may apportion the burden ratably
among all the counties or other particular subdivisions of the
State, or lay the greater share or the whole upon that county
or portion of the State specially and immediately benefited by
the expenditure." Mobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691,
703, 704.
The legislature, in the exercise of the right of taxation, has
the authority to direct the whole, or such part as it may prescribe, of the expense of a public improvement, such as the
establishing, the widening, the grading or the repair- of a
street, to be assessed upon the owners of lands benefited
thereby. -Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Iagar v.
Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701; Spencer v. Merchant,
125 U. S. 345, 355, 356; Walston v. Nevin, 128 U. S. 578, 582;
Lent v. Tillson, 140 U. S. 316, 328; Illinois Central Railroad
v. Decatur, 147 U. S. 190, 198, 199; Paulsen v. Portland,149
U.. S. 30, This authority has been repeatedly exercised in the
District of Columbia by Congress, with the sanction of this
court. Willard v. Presbury, 14 Wall. 676; Mattingly v. District of Columbia, 97 U. S. 687; Shoemaker v. United States,
147 U. S. 282, 286, 302.
The class of lands to be assessed for the purpose may be
either determined by the legislature itself, by defining a territorial district, or by other designation; or it may be left by

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the legislature to the determination of commissioners, and be
made to consist of such lands, and such only, as the commissioners shall decide to be benefited. Spencer v. Merchant, and
Shoemaker v. United States, above cited; Fallbrook District
v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 167, 168, 175, 176 ; Ulman v. Baltimore, 165 U. S. 719. See also the very able opinion of the
Court of Appeals of New York, delivered by Judge Ruggles,
in People v. Brooklyn, 4 N. Y. 419, 430.
The rule of apportionment among the parcels of land benefited also rests within the discretion of the legislature, and
may be directed to be in proportion to the position, the frontage, the area or the market value of the lands, or in proportion to the benefits as estimated by commissioners. Mattingly
v. Districtof Columbia, Spencer v. Meerchant, Walston v. Nevin,
Shoemaker v. United States, Paulsen v. Portland, and Fallbrook District v. Bradley, above cited.
If the legislature, in taxing lands benefited by a highway,
or other public improvement, makes provision for notice, by
publication or otherwise, to each owner of land, and for hearing him, at some stage of the proceedings, upon the question
what proportion of the tax shall be assessed upon his land,
his property is not taken without due process of law. Davidson v. New Orleans, Spencer v. Merchant, Walston v. Nevin,
Lent v. Tillson, Paulsen v. Portland,and Fallbrook District
v. Bradley, above cited.
The whole sum directed by section 15 to be assessed upon
lands benefited is one half of "the amount awarded by said
court as damages for each highway or reservation, or part
thereof, condemned and established under this act." This
fixing of the gross sum to be assessed was clearly within the
.authority of Congress, according to the above cases.
The class of lands to be assessed is defined by directing
that the aforesaid sum "shall be charged upon the lands
benefited by the laying out and opening of such highway
or reservation, or part thereof," and that the jury "shall
ascertain and determine what property is thereby benefited."
And the rule of assessment is defined by the further direction
that the jury "shall assess against each parcel which it shall

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

find to be so benefited its proper proportional part of" the
sum aforesaid, with a proviso that, as to any tract, part of
which only has been taken, due allowance shall be made "for
the amount, if any, which shall have been deducted from the
value of the part taken, on account of the benefit to the
remainder of the tract."
It was argued that section 15 was t ) uncertain to be put
in execution, because it failed to define the district or territory within which the benefits might be assessed, and did not
even specify whether the assessment should or should not be
confined to lands within the particular subdivision in which a
new highway was established. But in either alternative the
assessment could not include lMnds outside of the District of
Columbia; and the section would be equally constitutional
whether the district of assessment was the particular subdivision, or the whole District of Columbia. And there does not
appear to be any uncertainty as to which alternative was in
the contemplation of Congress. The lands to be assessed
being described generally as "the lands benefited" by the condemnation and establishment of the new highway, or by the
abandonment of an existing highway, and again as the "property thereby benefited," and as the lands which the jury "find
to be so benefited," without any words of restriction to lands
in the particular subdivision, the reasonable inference is that
all lands so benefited, lying within the exclusive jurisdiction
of Congress over the District of Columbia, may be included
in the assessment. The question what parcels of lands, within
the district so ascertained, are benefited, and therefore liable
to be assessed, might justly and constitutionally, as appears
by the cases above cited, be committed by Congress to the
determination of the tribunal entrusted with the authority of
making this assessment.
Nor can we entertain any serious doubt as to the rule of
assessment which is to govern. The directions that the jury
"shall ascertain and determine what property is benefited"
by the establishment of the highway, and "shall assess against
each parcel which it shall find to be so benefited its proper
proportional part of" the whole sum directed to be assessed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

making due allowance, when part only of a tract has been
taken, for any deduction already made, in the assessment of
damages for such taking, "on account of the benefit to the
remainder of the tract," reasonably, if not necessarily, imply
that the assessment is to be proportional to the benefit, and
not to the market value or any other test; and are equivalent
to the words in the Rock Creek Park Act, directing lands in
the District of Columbia to be assessed, "as nearly as may
be, in proportion to the benefits resulting to such real estate."
Act of September 27, 1890, c. 1001, § 6; 26 Stat. 493; Shoemaker v. United States, above cited.
In support of the judgment below, much reliance was placed
upon the opinion of the Supreme Court of New Jersey, delivered by Chief Justice Beasley, in State v. Hudson County
Commissioners, 8 Vroom (37 N. J. Law), 12. But the statute
there held unconstitutional left it wholly uncertain whether
the cost of the public improvement, or only an undefined part
thereof, should be assessed upon the owners of lands benefited;
and directed the amount assessed to be apportioned among
several townships, without prescribing or indicating any rule
of apportionment. Some expressions in the opinion, if wrested
from their context, cat hardly be reconciled with the decisions
of this court, above cited, or with the judgment of the Court
of Errors of New Jersey, delivered by Chief Justice Beasley,
in a later case, adjudging a statute to be constitutional, which
directed the expenses of improving certain public roads to be
estimated by commissioners, and to be by them assessed upon
lands found by them to be benefited, in proportion to, and to
the extent of, the benefit received, and the rest of the expense
to be assessed upon, the county.
State v. Road Commissioners, 13 Vroom (42 N. J. Law), 608.
It was objected to the validity of section 15, that it commits
the assessment of benefits upon lands, whether within or without the particular subdivision, benefited by the establishment
of a new highway, to "the same jury " which estimates the
compensation or damages, under the previous sections, for taking lands within the subdivision for the purpose of the highway. Some confusion has perhaps arisen from designating

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

the tribunal of seven men, which is to estimate the damages
and to assess the benefits, as "a jury," when it is in truth an
inquest or commission, appointed by the court under authority
of the act of Congress, and differing from an ordinary jury in
consisting of less than twelve persons, and in not being required to act with unanimity. American Publishing Co. v.
Fisher,166 U. S. 464; Springville v. Thomas, 166 U. S. 474.
By the Constitution of the United States, the estimate of
the just compensation for property taken for the public use,
under the right of eminent domain, is not required to be made
by a jury ; but may be entrusted by Congress to commissioners appointed by a court or by the executive, or to an inquest
consisting- of more or fewer men than an ordinary jury.
Custiss v. Georgetown & Alexandria Turnpike Co., 6 Cranch,
233; Secombe v. Railroad Co., 23 Wall. 108, 117, 118; United
States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513, 519; Shoemaker v. United States,
147 U. S. 282, 300, 301; Long Island Co. v. Brooklyn, 166
U. S.685.
Likewise, in the matter of assessing benefits, under the right
of taxation, it is within the discretion of the legislature, as
shown by the authorities already referred to upon this subject,
to commit the ascertainment of the lands to be assessed, as
well as the apportionment of the assessment among the different parcels, to the determination of commissioners appointed
as the legislature may prescribe. See also People v. Buffalo,
147 N. Y. 675.
Whether the estimate of damages and the assessment of
benefits shall be entrusted to the same or to different commissioners, is a matter wholly within the decision of the legislature, as justice and convenience may appear to it to require.
And there are many precedents for entrusting the performance
of both duties to the same persons. Act of March 3, 1809, c.
30, § 4, above cited, 2 Stat. 538; Cooley on Taxation, (2d ed.)
612; In re PittsburghDistrict,2 W. & S.320; In re Amsterdam Common Council, 126 N. Y. 158.
It was suggested in argument that section 11, authorizing
a deduction of benefits in assessing damages, and section 15,
authorizing an assessment for benefits, both fail to make it
VOL. CLXvii-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

certain what benefits are intended, and may subject the landowner to a double assessment. But, upon a view of all the
provisions relating to these matters, the reasonable construction is that the benefits to be taken into consideration and deducted, in estimating the compensation or damages under
sections 10, 11 and 13, are the special and direct benefits
which the appropriation of part of a tract of land for a highway may cause to the remainder of the tract; and that the
benefits for which an assessment is to be made under section
15, upon such remainders and upon all other lands benefited,
are the general benefits accruing to all lands in the neighborhood from the establishment of the highway; and section
15 carefully guards against the possibility of a double assessment, by directing the jury, in assessing benefits under this
section, "to make due allowance for the amount, if any, which
shall have been deducted from the value of the part taken, on
account of the benefit to the remainder of the tract." Both
the award of damages and the assessment of benefits are to
be made by the jury of seven under the supervision of the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; neither is conclusive upon the parties until confirmed by that court; and
both are subject to revision in matter of law by the Court of
Appeals. The instructions given at the trial upon the proper
elements of benefits. in either stage or aspect of the case have
not been, and could not be, brought before this court for revision - the jurisdiction of this court being limited by section
17 of the act of 1893, as amended by the act of January 21,
1896, c. 5, to the determination of- the question whether the
act of 1893, or any part thereof, is unconstitutional.
All the parties to these proceedings bad due notice of the
assessment of benefits under section 15, as well as of the assessment of damages under the earlier sections, by the publication
of notice, in accordance with section 8, warning them to attend
the court, "and to continue in attendance until the court shall
have made a final order in the premises." If the lands of any
other persons should be sought to be assessed for benefits
under section 15, notice would be required to them by the
provision thereof.that. the proceedings of the court and the

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

jury, in making assessments for benefits under this section,
shall conform as nearly as is practicable to the foregoing provisions of this act relating to the assessment of damages."
The objection that the owners of lands assessed for benefits
under these proceedings will be left liable to be assessed anew
under future proceedings for establishing other highways in
other subdivisions is without force. Whenever it has been
provided by a general law that a part of the expense of establishing any highway shall be assessed upon all lands in the
neighborhood benefited thereby, it may often happen that
the same land may be benefited by each of two highways
laid out at successive periods of time, and be liable to be
assessed accordingly. Take a simple example by way of
illustration: Suppose a highway is laid out from north to
south, increasing the value of the lands through which it runs
and of all other lands in the neighborhood, and assessments
of a portion of the cost are made upon all such lands and collected; and another highway is subsequently laid out from
east to west, crossing the first highway at right angles; it
may well happen that thereby the same, or some of the same,
parcels of land benefited by the first highway, may be further
increased in value, in common with other lands in the neighborhood, by the laying out of the second highway; and, to
the extent to which they are so increased in value, they may
justly and lawfully be subjected to a new assessment. The
like result may take place when a highway, established at
first through one subdivision only, is afterwards extended
through another subdivision.
Objection was made to that part of section 15, which provides that the assessment, when confirmed by the court, shall
be a lien upon the land and be collected like other taxes, and
"be payable in five equal annual instalments, with interest at
the rate of four per centum per annum from the date of the
confirmation of the assessment by the court." But it is within
the commonly exercised and indisputable power of the legislature to make taxes of any kind, assessed upon real estate, payable forthwith, and an immediate lien thereon. In the leading
case of Davidson v. New Orleans, the objection that the assess-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

ment was actually made before, instead of after, the work
was done, was held to be untenable; and Mr. Justice Miller,
speaking for this court, said: "As a question of wisdomof judicious economy- it would seem better in this, as in
other works which require the expenditure of large sums of
money, to secure the means of payment before becoming
involved in the enterprise." 96 U. S. 100.
In coming to the conclusion that both section 11 and section 15 are in all respects constitutional, we do not find it
necessary to invoke the familiar rule of construction, well
expressed in Chief Justice Alvey's opinion in the present case
as follows: "Every reasonable intendment should be indulged
in order to maintain the act in its entirety, and if there be
any reasonable mode of construction by which the entire act,
and every provision thereof, may be sustained, as against a
mere plausible construction tending to a contrary result, the
former mode of construction must prevail. It is only when
no other reasonable construction can be supported, that an
act of Congress, or any part of it, can be declared to be unconstitutional and void, or invalid for any cause." 8 App.
D. C. 421, 422.
The objections taken in argument to the constitutionality of
other parts of the act may be more briefly disposed of.
The recording of the map under section 2 does not constitute a taking of any land, nor in any way interfere with the
owner's use and enjoyment thereof. The provision of that
section that after the map has been recorded, no further subdivision, not in conformity with the map, shall be admitted to
record, goes no farther than the earlier acts of Congress of
January 12, 1809, c. 8, and August 27, 1888, c. 916, cited at the
beginning of this opinion; and is clearly within the athority
of Congress to prevent anything being placed upon the public
records, which may tend to defeat its object of securing uniformity in the entire system of highways in the District. The
provision of section 3, giving to any deed or will, duly recorded,
which refers to the subdivision made by the map, the same
effect as if such subdivision had been made and recorded by
the grantoror testator, tends to promote the same object, and

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

benefits rather than injures owners of lands. The provision
of section 2, forbidding the Commissioners of the District of
Columbia and all other public officers or agents to accept,
improve, repair, or assume any responsibility in regard to
highways not in conformity with the map, does not touch the
rights of owners of lands; but was evidently intended to prevent the District of Columbia from being held responsible to
travellers upon such highways, under the law prevailing in
the District, as declared by this court, and suffered to remain
unchanged by Congress. Barnes v. District of Columbia, 91
U. S. 540; Detroit v. Osborne, 135 U. S. 492, 498; District of
Columbia v. Woodbury, 136 U. S.450, 457. The object of the
recording of the map is to give notice to all persons of the
system of highways proposed to be established by subsequent
proceedings of condemnation. It does not restrict in any way
the use or improvement of lands by their owners before the
commencement of proceedings for condemnation of lands for
such highways; nor does it limit the damages to be awarded
in such proceedings. The recording of the map, therefore,
did not of itself entitle the owners of lands to any compensation or damages. Shoemaker, v. United States, 147 U. S. 282,
321; Prosserv. Northern Pacific Railroad,152 U. S. 59; In
re PittsburghDistrict, 2 W. & S. 320; In re Forbes Street, 70
Penn. St. 125; In re Furman Street, 17 Wend. 649; Forster
v. Scott, 136 N. Y. 577; Steuart v. Baltimore, 7 Maryland,
500, 516.
The act throughout clearly manifests the intention of Congress that, especially with regard to the highways in existing
subdivisions, all the proceedings, from the preparation of a
general plan by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia to the award and payment of damages for lands taken or
injured, the assessment of the amount of those damages upon
lands benefited, the taking possession of the land condemned,
and the actual construction of the highways, shall go on without unnecessary delay. By section 2, the Commissioners
are directed to make the plan in sections, beginning with
areas covered by existing subdivisions, and, as soon as the
map of any section has been approved, to record it; and, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

order to enable them "to proceed speedily and efficiently to
*carry out the purposes of this act," are authorized to employ
assistant engineers to have immediate charge of the work;
and by section 4 the Commissioners and their agents are
authorized to enter upon lands to make surveys. By section
6, within thirty days after a map has been recorded which
changes highways in an existing subdivision, the Commissioners are to present to the court a petition for the condemnation of a permanent right of way, over all lands included
within the highways laid out upon the map. By section 10,
the damages to all the parcels of lands involved in the proceedings may be estimated by one jury; and by section 15
the same jury may be entrusted with the assessment of those
damages upon lands benefited. By section 16, when damages
have been assessed, the court is to order payment thereof to
the parties or into its registry, and a copy of the order is
to be presented to the Treasurer of the United States, to be
reported by him to Congress. And by section 18, as soon as
the damages have been assessed and paid, the Commissioners
are to take immediate possession of the land; but if Congress,
during six months of its session, omits to make the necessary
appropriation, the proceedings are to be void, and the lands to
belong to the owners.
Under the Constitution, and by the express provision of section 18 of this act, the United States are not entitled to possession of the land until the damages have been assessed and
actually paid. The payment of the damages to the owner of
the land and the vesting of the title in the United States are
to be contemporaneous. The Constitution does not require
the damages to be actually paid at any earlier time; nor is
the owner of the land entitled to interest pending the proceedings. Shoemaker v. United States, above cited; Sweet v.
Rechel, 159 U. S. 380.
The last clause of section 18, which provides that if the
court enters judgment of condemnation in any case, and
appropriation for the payment of the award of damages is
not made by Congress, after being six months in session, "the
proceedings shall be void and the land shall revert to the

THE J. P. DONALDSON.
Syllabus.

owners," clearly means, by the words "the proceedings," all
the proceedings, not merely the award of damages, but also
the assessment of benefits, for if the award of damages is void,
there remains no sum to be assessed for benefits. The phrase
"and the land shall revert to the owners," is not happily
chosen, for, the damages not having been paid, the title in
the land has never passed out of them; but the clear meaning is that the title to the land shall be held to have remained
in the owners as if no proceedings for condemnation had bedn
had. This provision secures the owners from being compelled to part with their lands without receiving just compensation, and is within the constitutional authority of the legislature. Baltimore & Susquehanna Railroad v. Nesbit, 10
How. 395 ; Garrison v. New York, 21 Wall. 196.
The result is that there is nothing in the act of March 2,
1893, c. 197, inconsistent with the Constitution, and therefore
the judgments of both of the courts of the District of Columbia must be reversed. So far as the cases are disclosed by the
records sent up, it would seem that judgment should be
entered upon each of the verdicts as originally returned. But
the appellate jurisdiction conferred upon this court being
restricted to the determination of th8 question whether the
act of 1893, or any part thereof, is unconstitutional, the safer
and more proper form of judgment appears to this court to be
Judgments of the Court of Appeals and of the Supreme Court
of the'Districtof Columbia reversed, and cases remanded
for furtherproceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

THE J. P. DONALDSON.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 29.

Argued April 1, 1896. -

Decided May 24, 1897.

No contribution in general average, can be had against a steam tug for the
casting off and abandonment, by her master, of her tow of barges, with
the intention and the effect of saving the tug.

