1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

443 U. S.

LENHARD ET AL., CLARK COUNTY DEPUTY PUBLIC
DEFENDERS, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS NEXT FRIENDS
OF BISHOP V. WOLFF, WARDEN, NEVADA
STATE PRISON SYSTEM, ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY OF EXECUTION

No. A-172.

Decided September 7, 1979

A temporary stay of execution of a death sentence imposed by a Nevada
trial court and affirmed by the Nevada Supreme Court is continued
pending the full Court's consideration of an application by public defenders as "next friends" of the defendant, who disclaimed any effort
to prevent his execution. Although there are doubts concerning the
applicants' standing, particularly in view of the record evidence and
lower-court findings as to the defendant's competency to waive the assertion of any constitutional infirmities in his sentence, and although
the defendant has obtained full review of the death sentence and trial
proceedings by the Nevada Supreme Court, which upheld the constitutionality of the Nevada capital punishment statute, doubts as to the
proper course of action are resolved in favor of continuing the stay
because the Circuit Justice acts as surrogate for the full Court, and
because the Court will have an opportunity to consider the application
at its regularly scheduled Conference the last week of the month.

MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.

On August 25, 1979, I temporarily enjoined respondents
from executing Jesse Bishop, upon whom a death sentence
was imposed by the State District Court for Clark County,
Nev., and affirmed by the Supreme Court of Nevada in July
1979. I issued the injunction so that I would be able to consider the response of Nevada officials and additional information of record which I requested from each of the parties.
In the exercise of what I find to be as difficult a task as must
be performed by any Member of this Court-the obligation
to act as surrogate for the entire Court in deciding whether
to grant or deny extraordinary relief pursuant to 28 U. S. C.
ยง 1651 pending disposition of a petition for certiorari by the

LENHARD v. WOLFF
1306

Opinion in Chambers

full Court-I have determined that it is appropriate to continue the stay of execution pending consideration by the full
Court. Since the State of Nevada is entitled to have the
mandates of its courts enforced unless they offend the laws or
Constitution of the United States, and since Jesse Bishop has
concededly disclaimed any effort either by himself or by others
on his behalf to prevent his execution, I feel obliged to summarize briefly the reasons which lead me to refer the application to the full Court.
The defendafit under sentence of death has wholly disclaimed any effort to seek a stay from this Court or to seek
review of the decision of the Supreme Court of Nevada by
means of certiorari in this Court. The only two comparable
cases which have come before this Court are Gilmore v. Utah,
429 U. S. 1012 (1976), and Evans v. Bennett, 440 U. S. 1301,
in which I granted a stay of execution on April 5, 1979, in
order that the case might be considered by the full Court.
The full Court thereafter vacated the stay. Evans v. Bennett,
440 U. S. 987 (1979). In each of these cases, the defendant under sentence of death had disassociated himself from
efforts to secure review of that sentence.* In Evans, I
entered the stay of execution in recognition of the fact that
four Members of the Court had dissented from the ultimate
denial of the stay in Gilmore, supra. While my Brothers
BRENNAN

and

MARSHALL'S

view of the death sentence as

"cruel and unusual punishment" within the prohibition of the
Eighth Amendment under all circumstances might permit review of any capital case by this Court, the dissenting opinions

of my Brothers

WHITE

and

BLACKMUN

seem more limited in

scope. Those opinions urged plenary consideration of the
application to resolve doubts about the standing of Gilmore's
*In Evans, the Court was informally advised after the date upon which
I granted the stay that Evans had authorized the prosecution of the
federal habeas corpus action in the United States District Court for the

Southern District of Alabama.

1308

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

443 U. S.

mother to prosecute the action without her son's consent when
substantial questions regarding the constitutionality of the
state statute remained unresolved. I therefore concluded in
Evans that a stay until the regularly scheduled Conference of
the Court the following week would be most consonant with
my obligations as Circuit Justice.
In my view, the initial barrier to be overcome in the present
case by applicants Lenhard and Franzen, who with commendable fidelity to their assignment by the trial court have
sought this stay and petitioned for habeas relief in the federal
courts, is the finding of the courts which have passed on the
question that defendant Jesse Bishop is competent to waive
the assertion of any constitutional infirmities in the sentence
imposed upon him by the Nevada courts. A successful attack
on Bishop's competency is the requisite threshold for applicants' standing. Even if standing were not a barrier, a view
some Members of the Court may well subscribe to, applicants
still would have the burden of demonstrating some constitutional deficiency in the proceedings, as I read the views of my
Brother WHITE. For this reason, I have considered the
nature of the judicial review afforded on the merits thus far,
as well as the review afforded the determination of Bishop's
competency.
At the trial court level, both Evans and Bishop pleaded
guilty, whereas Gilmore was tried and sentenced by a jury.
Gilmore declined to seek any appellate review in the Supreme
Court of Utah, and was granted none. Evans' conviction and
sentence were reviewed pursuant to a requirement for mandatory appeal in both the Alabama Court of Appeals and in the
Supreme Court of Alabama. Bishop's case was comprehensively reviewed by the Supreme Court of Nevada. Evans
additionally unsuccessfully sought a writ of certiorari from this
Court to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama, which writ was denied on February 20, 1979. 440
U. S. 930. Thus, each of the three cases had progressed to

LENHARD v. WOLFF
1306

1309

Opinion in Chambers

different levels of review within the judicial system: Gilmore
had neither sought nor obtained any appellate review of the
death sentence imposed upon him by the trial court; Bishop
has obtained full review by the Supreme Court of Nevada of
the death sentence and proceedings which led up to it in the
trial court; Evans not only obtained state appellate review,
but also petitioned this Court unsuccessfully for a writ of
certiorari challenging the affirmance of his death sentence by
the Alabama courts.
In Gilmore, no state or federal court had reviewed the constitutionality of the Utah statute. The Supreme Court of
Nevada in reviewing Bishop's case, however, expressly upheld
the constitutionality of the Nevada capital punishment statute. The court reasoned:
"The Nevada statutes authorizing the imposition of the
death penalty are similar to the Florida statutes which
were found to be constitutional in Proffitt v. Florida,428
U. S. 242 (1976). The Nevada statutes provide for a
consideration of any mitigating factor the defendant
may want to present. NRS 200.035 (7). Cf. Lockett v.
Ohio, [438 U. S. 586 (1978)]. The imposition of the
death penalty in this case offends neither the United
States Constitution nor the Nevada Constitution."
Bishop v. Nevada, 95 Nev. 511, 517-518, 597 P. 2d 273,
276-277 (1979).
Again, in my view, the substantive constitutional arguments
which might be made by defendant Bishop in this Court in
support of review of the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Nevada bear only tangentially on the merits of the application
for stay, since the contentions are not being made by Bishop,
but rather by the public defenders asserting that they act as
"next friends." But since MR. JUSTICE WHITE, joined by MR.
JUSTICE BRENNAN and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL in Gilmore,
stated that "[u] ntil the state courts have resolved the obvious,
serious doubts about the validity of the state statute, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

443 U. S.

imposition of the death penalty in this case should be stayed,"
429 U. S., at 1018, and MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN stated that
"the question of Bessie Gilmore's standing and the constitutional issue are not insubstantial," id., at 1020, it is apparent
that four Members of this Court do not consider the issue of
the "standing" of a relative to assert claims which the convicted defendant refuses to assert and the merits of those
claims to be wholly disassociated from one another. The constitutionality of Bishop's sentence has, in any event, been
subjected to substantially greater scrutiny than the sentence
imposed in Gilmore.
From my view of the controlling legal precepts, the record
evidence of competency is more important to the determination of whether a stay is appropriate than is the merit of the
underlying application. While I do not purport to have extensive knowledge of the concept of "next friend" in a legal
proceeding such as this, it strikes me that from a purely technical standpoint a public defender may appear as "next friend"
with as much justification as the mother of John L. Evans or
of Gary Gilmore. But I do think the contrast between the
position of Bishop's family in this case and that of Gilmore's
mother and Evans' mother in those cases is worth noting.
Here Bishop's family has by no means repudiated him, but
they have at the same time declined to pursue or join in the
pursuit of any further judicial review of the death sentence.
While the familial relationship of the "next friend" to the
defendant may not be relevant to the technical question of
standing, it may provide some inferences as to the issue of
competence. The refusal of the family to seek relief may well
support the finding of the courts which have considered the
question that the defendant is competent to waive additional
proceedings.
Gilmore underwent competency proceedings both prior to

trial and after he announced his intention to waive appellate
review. With respect to the waiver of the latter right, the

LENHARD v. WOLFF
1306

Opinion in Chambers

trial judge appointed a prison psychiatrist to examine Gilmore.
On the basis of a 1-hour interview the psychiatrist submitted a report to the court finding Gilmore competent to
waive appeals. Reports of two prison psychologists were submitted as corroboration, and the trial judge entered a finding
of competency.
Bishop was found competent to plead guilty and represent
himself after an evidentiary hearing at which three examining
psychiatrists reported that Bishop was competent. There has
been no subsequent judicial determination of his competency
to waive further litigation. A state-appointed psychiatrist,
however-the only psychiatrist that Bishop would consent to
see-submitted a report based on a 4-hour interview, concluding that Bishop is competent to waive further review.
The United States District Court for the District of Nevada,
in its opinion in the habeas proceeding dated August 23, 1979,
stated:
"The Court has reviewed the record of the proceedings before the Nevada Supreme Court and the Eighth
Judicial District of the State of Nevada and, based
thereon, finds that Jesse Walter Bishop made a knowing
and intelligent waiver of any and all federal rights he
might have asserted both before and after the Eighth
Judicial District imposed sentence, and, specifically, that
the State of Nevada's determinations of his competence
knowingly and intelligently to waive any and all such
rights were firmly grounded." Application, App. B, p. 5.
On appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, a
panel of that court stated in its opinion:
"Bishop himself has steadfastly maintained that he does
not wish to seek relief in the federal courts and refuses
to authorize any petition for habeas corpus or stay of
execution to be filed on his behalf. Most recently he appeared in open court at the hearing before the district
court on August 23, 1979 and declared that he believes

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

443 U. S.

he has a constitutional right to waive any rights to a
federal appeal and desires to do so. He maintained he
was intelligently and competently exercising his right to
refrain from seeking relief from the federal courts." 603
F. 2d 91, 93 (1979).
The Court of Appeals went on to observe that following
the initial determination of competence to stand trial and
plead guilty:
"[T]here has been no showing of Bishop's incompetence ...
"Bishop was found to be competent at the time of trial
by three psychiatrists; he was observed by the panel of
three judges during the penalty hearing; he was observed
in a subsequent proceeding before the trial court on July
25, 1979; he appeared personally before the United States
District Court on August 23, 1979; and he was examined
by a licensed psychiatrist on August 21, 1979. On none
of these occasions was there an indication to those responsible persons that he was incompetent. We find that
there has been no evidence of incompetence sufficient to
warrant a hearing on the issue." Ibid.
I thus find myself in much the same position in which I
found myself in Evans v. Bennett. If I were casting my vote
on the application for a stay as a Member of the full Court, I
would vote to deny the stay. I am in full agreement with the
per curiam opinion of Judges Wright, Sneed, and Hug of the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. I am
likewise in full agreement with the observations of Judge
Sneed in his concurring opinion suggesting that however
worthy and high minded the motives of "next friends" may
be, they inevitably run the risk of making the actual defendant a pawn to be manipulated on a chessboard larger than his
own case. The idea that the deliberate decision of one under
sentence of death to abandon possible additional legal avenues
of attack on that sentence cannot be a rational decision, re-

LENHARD v. WOLFF
1306

1313

Opinion in Chambers

gardless of its motive, suggests that the preservation of one's
own life at whatever cost is the summum bonum, a proposition with respect to which the greatest philosophers and theologians have not agreed and with respect to which the United
States Constitution by its terms does not speak.
But because I am acting as surrogate for the full Court, and
because the Court will have an opportunity to consider this
application at its regularly scheduled Conference the last week
of this month, I have resolved doubts which greatly trouble
me as to my proper course of action in favor of continuing the
injunction which I previously issued to and including Monday,
October 1, 1979, unless previously modified or vacated by the
Court.

