SPECTOR MOTOR CO. v. McLAUGHLIN. 101
Opinion of the Court.

SPECTOR MOTOR SERVICE, INC. v. McLAUGHLIN, TAX COMMISSIONER (WALSH, SUBSTITUTED DEFENDANT).
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 62.

Argued November 9, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.

Since the answers to the questions of local law involved in this case
may render unnecessary, or may affect, the decision of the questions arising under the Federal Constitution, and since the local
questions have not been passed upon by the state courts though
an appropriate proceeding is available, the cause is remanded to
the District Court with directions to retain the bill pending the
determination of proceedings to be brbught with reasonable promptitude in the state court. P. 105.
139 F. 2d 809, vacated.
CERTIORARI, 322 U. S. 720, to review a judgment which,
on appeal from a decision of the District Court holding a
state tax inapplicable to the petitioner, 47 F. Supp. 671,
held the tax applicable and valid.

Messrs. J. Ninian BeaU and Cyril Coleman, with whom
Mr. Roland Rice was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Frank J. DiSesa, Assistant Attorney General of
Connecticut, with whom Mr. FrancisA. Pallotti,Attorney
General, was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought in a United States district court
to enjoin the enforcement of a State tax and for a declaratory judgment.
The Connecticut Corporation Business Tax Act of 1935,
as amended, imposed on every corporation, not otherwise
specially taxed, carrying on or having the right to carry

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

on business within the State "a tax or excise upon its franchise for the privilege of carrying on or doing business
within the state . . ." Conn. Gen. Stat. Cum. Supp.
1935, § 418c, as amended by Conn. Gen. Stat. Supp. 1939,
§ 354e. Petitioner, a Missouri corporation with its principal place of business in Illinois, is engaged exclusively
in the interstate trucking business. It is neither authorized by Connecticut to do intrastate trucking nor in fact
does it engage in it. It maintains two leased terminals
in Connecticut solely for the purpose of carrying on its
interstate business. At the request of its lessor, it has
filed with the Secretary of State in Connecticut a certificate of its incorporation in Missouri, has designated an
agent in Connecticut for service of process, and has paid
the statutory fee. On this state of facts the State Tax
Commissioner determined that petitioner was subject to
the Act of 1935, as amended, and assessed the tax against
Spector for the years 1937 to 1940. Whereupon petitioner
brought this suit in the United States District Court for
the District of Connecticut to free itself from liability for
the tax. Alleging appropriate grounds for equitable relief, petitioner claims that the "tax or excise" levied by the
Act does not apply to it; and in the alternative that, if it
should be deemed within the scope of the statute, the tax
offends provisions of the Connecticut Constitution as well
as the Commerce and Due Process Clauses of the United
States Constitution.
The District Court construed the statute to be "a tax
upon the exercise of a franchise to carry on intrastate commerce in the state" and therefore not applicable to petitioner. 47 F. Supp. 671, 675. On appeal the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit construed the statute to
reach all corporations having activity in Connecticut,
whether doing or authorized to do intrastate business or,
like the petitioner, engaged exclusively in interstate commerce. It further decided all contentions under the Con-

SPECTOR MOTOR CO. v. McLAUGHLIN. 103
101

Opinion of the Court.

necticut Constitution against the petitioner. And so, the
court below found itself compelled "to face directly the
main issue whether the tax is in fact an unconstitutional
burden on interstate commerce." 139 F. 2d 809, 813. The
dissenting judge thus phrased the issue: "we have before
us in the barest possible form the effort of a state to levy
an excise directly upon the privilege of carrying on an
activity which is neither derived from the state, nor within
its power to forbid." Id. at 822. It was conceded below
that if the Connecticut tax was construed to cover petitioner it would run afoul the Commerce Clause, were this
Court to adhere to what Judge Learned Hand called "an
unbroken line of decisions." On the basis of what it
deemed foreshadowing "trends," the majority ventured
the prophecy that this Court would change its course, and
accordingly sustained the tax. In view of the far-reaching
import of such a disposition by the Circuit Court of
Appeals we brought the case here. 322 U. S. 720.
Once doubts purely local to the Constitution and laws
of Connecticut are resolved against the petitioner there
are at stake in this case questions of moment touching
the taxing powers of the 'States and their relation to the
overriding national interests embodied in the Commerce
Clause. This is so whether the issue be as broad and as
bare as the District Court and Judge Learned Hand formulated it, or whether the Connecticut statute carries a
more restricted meaning. If Connecticut in fact sought
to tax the right to engage in interstate commerce, a long
course of constitutional history and "an" unbroken line
of decisions" would indeed be brought into question. But
even if Connecticut seeks merely to levy a tax on the net
income of this interstate trucking business for activities
attributed to Connecticut, questions under the Commerce
Clause still remain if only because of what the court below
called "ingenious provisions as to allocation of net income
in the case of business carried on partly without the state."
139 F. 2d 809, 812.

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

We would not be called upon to decide any of these
questions of constitutionality, with theirvarying degrees
of difficulty, if, as the District Court held, the statute does
not at all apply to one, like petitioner, not authorized to
do intrastate business. Nor do they emerge until all other
local Connecticut issues are decided against the petitioner. But even if the statute hits aspects of an exclusively interstate business it is for . Connecticut to
decide from what aspect of interstate business she seeks
an exaction. It is for her to say what is the subject matter which she has sought to tax and what is the calculus
of the tax she seeks. Every one of these questions must
be answered before we reach the constitutional issues
which divided the court below.
Answers to all these questions must precede consideration of the Commerce Clause. To none have we an authoritative answer. Nor can we give one. Only the
Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut can give such an
answer. But this tax has not yet been considered or construed by the Connecticut courts. We have no authoritative pronouncements to guide us as to its nature and
application. That the answers are not obvious is evidenced by the different conclusions as to the scope of the
statute reached by the two lower courts. The Connecticut
Supreme Court maydisagree with the District Court and
agree with,the Circuit Court of Appeals as to the applicability of the statute. But this is an assumption and at
best "a forecast rather than a determination." Railroad
Commission v. Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496, 499. Equally
are we without power to pass definitively on the other
claims urged under Articles I and II of the Connecticut
Constitution.' If any should prevail, our constitutional
"For instance, petitioner claims that no standard for' assessment
is'set up in the statute s6' that the executive officer is' acting in a
legislative capacity in violation of Article II; that failure to allow a
deduction for rent violates §§ 1 and 12 of Article I. in addition he

SPECTOR MOTOR CO. v: McLAUGHLIN. 105
101

Opinion of the Court.

issues would either fall or, in any event, may be formulated in an authoritative way very different from any
speculative construction of how the Connecticut courts
would view this law and its application. Watson v. Buck,
313 U. S. 387, 401-402.
If there is one doctrine more deeply rooted than any
other in the process of constitutional adjudication, it is
that we ought not to pass on questions of constitutionality-here the;. distribution of the taxing power as between the State and the Nation-unless such adjudication
is unavoidable. And so, as questions of federal constitutional power have become more and more intertwined with
preliminary doubts about local law, we have insisted that
federal courts do not decide questions of constitutionality
on the basis of preliminary guesses regarding local law.
Railroad Commission v. Pullman Co., supra; Chicago v:
Fieldcrest Dairies,316 U. S. 168; In re Central R. Co. of
New Jersey, 136 F. 2d 633. See also Burford v. Sun Oil
Co., 319 U. S.315; Meredith v. Winter Haven, 320 U. S.
228, 235; Green v. PhillipsPetroleum Co., 119 F. 2d 466;
Findley v. Odland, 127 F. 2d 948; United States v. 150.29
Acres of Land, 135 F. 2d 878. Avoidance of such guesswork, by holding the litigation in the federal courts until
definite determinations on local law are made by the state
courts, merely heeds this time-honored Canon of constitutional adjudication.
We think this procedure should be followed in this
case. The District Court had jurisdiction to entertain
this bill and to give whatever relief is appropriate despite
the Johnson Act 2 and Great Lakes Dredge Co. v. Huffclaims that the tax was assessed under the wrong subsection of the
statute-§ 420c (b) instead of § 420c (a).
2
Act of August 21, 1937, 50 Stat. 738, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1). ".
no district court shall have jurisdiction of any suit to enjoin, suspend, or restrain the assessment, levy, or collection of any tax imposed.
by or pursuant to the laws of any State where a plain, speedy, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

323 U. S.

man, 319 U. S. 293, because of the uncertainty surrounding the adequacy of the Connecticut remedy. See Waterbury Savings Bank v. Lawler, 46 Conn. 243; Wilcox v.
Town of Madison, 106 Conn. 223, 137 A. 742. But there
is no doubt that Connecticut makes available an action
for declaratory judgment for the determination of those
issues of Connecticut law involved here. Charter Oak
Council, Inc. v. Town of New Hartford, 121 Conn. 466,
185 A. 575; Conzelman v. City of Bristol, 122 Conn.
218, 188 A. 659; Walsh v. City of Bridgeport, 2 Conn.
Supp. 88.
We therefore vacate the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals and remand the cause to the District Court
with directions to retain the bill pending the determination of proceedings to be brought with reasonable promptitude in the State court in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK dissents.

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD RICE CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 72.

Argued November 16, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.

1. A contract for the sale of material to the United States contained
the following provision: "Prices bid herein include any federal tax
heretofore imposed by the Congress which is applicable to the material on this bid. Any sales tax, duties, imposts, revenues, excise
or other taxes which may hereafter (the date set for the opening
of this bid) be imposed by the Congress and made applicable to
the material on this bid will be charged to the Government and
entered on invoices as a separate item." Held that the United
States was not entitled to recover from the contractor processing
taxes imposed by the Agricultural Adjustment Act, which taxes
efficient remedy may be had at law or in equity in the courts of

such State."

