OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

323 U. S.

court nor to this one. The purpose of the full faith and
credit clause is to lengthen the arm of the state court
and to eliminate state lines as a shelter from judicial
proceedings. This is defeated by entertaining a plea to
review the support in state law for the judgment as it
has been rendered, which is a delaying inquiry as has
been shown by this case.

KANN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 35. Argued November 7, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.
1. An essential element of the offense under § 215 of the Criminal
Code is that the use of the mails be for the purpose of executing
the fraudulent scheme. P. 95.
2. The fraudulent scheme alleged being one to obtain money, and
participants having obtained the money by cashing checks at
banks which thereupon became holders in due course, the subsequent mailings of the checks by the banks to the drawees were
not "for the purpose of executing such scheme," within the meaning of § 215 of the Criminal Code, and the conviction here can not
be sustained. P. 94.
140 F. 2d 380, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 321 U. S. 761, to review the affiymance of
a conviction of using the mails to defraud in violation of
§ 215 of the Criminal Code.

Mr. Simon E. Sobeloif, with whom Mr. Bernard M.

Goldstein was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William A. Paisley, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, Mr.

Robert S. Erdahl, and Miss Beatrice Rosenberg were on
the brief, for the United States.

KANN v. UNITED STATES.
88

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We took this case because it involves important questions arising under § 215 of the Criminal Code. 1 The section provides that "Whoever, having devised . . . any

scheme or artifice to defraud, or for obtaining money or
property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, . . . shall, for the purpose of exe-

cuting such scheme or artifice or attempting so to do, place,
or cause to be placed, any letter . . . in any post office,
or . . . cause to be delivered by mail according to the
direction thereon . . .any such letter, . . . shall be fined

not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than five
years, or both."
The petitioner and six others were indicted in three
counts for using the mail in execution of a scheme to defraud. Petitioner's co-defendants pleaded nolo contendere. He was tried and convicted on the second and third
counts, and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the
conviction.'
The indictment alleged that Triumph Explosives, Inc.
is a Maryland corporation engaged in the manufacture of
munitions, for the United States, a large amount of whose
stock is held by the general public; that petitioner was
President, and a director, one of his co-defendants was
an officer and director and five of them salaried executive
and administrative employes of the company. The indictment continued that the defendants devised a scheme
to defraud Triumph and its stockholders and obtain
money for themselves by diverting part of the profits
of Triumph on its Government contracts to a corporation known as Elk Mills Loading Corporation and distributing such profits through salaries, dividends, and
1 18 U. S. C. § 338.
2 140 F. 2d 380.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

bonuses to be paid by Elk Mills to the defendants; that,
in pursuance of the scheme, Elk Mills was organized, some
defendants elected officers and directors, and others
elected consultants at substantial salaries, and 49% of its
stock distributed to five defendants, who were administrative employes of Triumph, without consideration;
that Triumph, pursuant to the plan, subcontracted a
Government contract to Elk Mills for 51o of the latter's
stock, on a basis which would yield Elk Mills large profits,
and would involve utilization of the employes and services of Triumph in the performance of the subcontract;
and that the defendants, pursuant to the scheme, received
from Elk Mills salaries and bonuses for which no substantial services were rendered, and dividends, to the detriment of Triumph. It was alleged that the fraudulent
scheme was misrepresented upon the minutes of Triumph
and false reasons for the transaction given. Further, that,
pursuant to the scheme, it was to be represented that some
of the defendants would purchase with their own money,
and convey to Elk Mills, certain lands for the issue to
them of 49% of the stock of Elk Mills, whereas it was not
intended that these defendants should use their own funds
in purchasing the land to be transferred in payment of
the stock, and that this plan was carried out. In summary,
it was charged that the scheme was such that Triumph
should be deprived of the profits rightfully belonging to
it and these profits should be distributed amongst the defendants through the instrumentality of Elk Mills; that
bonuses were to be paid to each of the defendants out of
the profits of Elk Mills, and such bonuses were paid.
In the first count it was charged that the defendants,
for the purpose of executing the scheme, caused to be
delivered by mail a check drawn by Elk Mills on the
Peoples Bank of Elkton, Maryland, in favor of petitioner
The Government abandoned the first count at the trial.

KANN v. UNITED STATES.
88

Opinion of the Court.

In the second, it was charged that, for the same purpose,
the defendants caused to be placed in the post office at
Elkton a check drawn by one Jackson on Industrial Trust
Company of Wilmington, Delaware. In the third, it was
charged that, for the same purpose, the defendants caused
to be delivered by mail a check drawn by Elk Mills on the
Peoples Bank of Elkton in favor of one of the defendants,
Willis.
At the trial the Government proved the corporate
existence of Triumph, proved that Triumph held Government contracts, that Elk Mills was incorporated and became subcontractor of a Government contract, that the
stock of Elk Mills was distributed amongst certain of the
defendants and Triumph, as in the indictment alleged,
that, under the subcontract, Elk Mills was in receipt of
substantial profits and that these profits were used to pay
salaries and bonuses to the defendants, including petitioner. The Government offered evidence tending to
prove that certain of these actions had been concealed
from other directors of Triumph and that the true situation was discovered when a federal officer made an audit of
Triumph's transactions under Government contracts.
The petitioner offered evidence tending to prove that
in order to expand Triumph's business two banks had
loaned large sums to Triumph under written agreements
which restricted the amount it could invest in capital
assets and restricted the salaries and bonuses it could pay;
that the four defendants who were executive employes
were dissatisfied with their compensation and threatened
to leave Triumph unless they should receive increased
compensation; that the directors of Triumph devised the
plan of incorporating Elk Mills and subcontracting with
it to make possible the payment of salaries and bonuses
without violating Triumph's agreements with its banks;
that petitioner had no other motive in participating in
the transactions relating to Elk Mills, and that, upon being

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

advised of the arrangement, Triumph's banks were of
opinion that it did not violate the agreements.
It was proved by the Government that one Jackson
contracted with Triumph for the building of a factory
for Elk Mills on land conveyed to Triumph by several
of the defendants. Some of these defendants informed
the contractor that he might use the timber standing on
the land in the construction of the building. After he
had done so they falsely represented to him that they
owned the timber and that he must pay them some
$12,000 for it. He did so, by a check, to their order, and,
in turn, billed Triumph for the same amount. There
was evidence that the petitioner was asked whether it
was proper to pay the bill and that he stated he did not
see why not. It is not contended that the petitioner
received any of this money, and his evidence tended to
show he had no knowledge of this fraud perpetrated on
Triumph.
The use of the mails proved under count 2 was this:
The check of Jackson, the contractor, for purchase of the
timber, to the order of defendants Deibert, Feldman,
Kann (not petitioner), Prial, and Willis, was by them
endorsed and cashed at the Peoples Bank of Elkton,
Maryland, and was, by that bank, deposited in the mail
to be delivered to the bank in Wilmington, Delaware, on
which it was drawn.
With respect to the third count, the proof was that
Elk Mills delivered its check on the Peoples Bank of Elkton for $5,000 to Willis, one of the executive employes,
as a bonus. It was endorsed by Willis and deposited with
the Farmers Trust Company of Newark, Delaware. The
Newark bank mailed the check to the Peoples Bank of
Elkton.
The petitioner contends, first, that there is no substantial evidence that the transactions involving Elk
Mills' subcontract were other than innocent transactions

KANN v. UNITED STATES.
88

93

Opinion of the Court.

intended to finance the Government contracts held by
Triumph, in conformity to that Company's agreements
with the bank; or, if the transactions were for an improper purpose, there is no proof that he was a party to
any improper use of funds. Secondly, the petitioner urges
that he admittedly received no money from the checks
which are described in counts 2 and 3, and there is no
proof he had knowledge, or reasonable cause to believe,
that the checks would go through the mails and, therefore,
he did not cause them to be sent or delivered within the
intent of the statute. Thirdly, he urges that the mailing
of the checks by the paying banks could not be for the
purpose of executing the scheme since the defendants to
whom those checks were delivered had received the money
represented by the checks and each transaction, after
such receipt, was irrevocable as respects the drawer.
The petitioner strenuously argues his first contention,
but, in the view we take of the case, we find it unnecessary
to review the evidence, if we were otherwise inclined to
do so in the face of the agreement of the courts below that
a case. was made for the jury on the question of the fraudulent nature of the scheme and the petitioner's participation in it.
With respect to the second contention, while there may
be some question as to whether the defendants may be
said to have "caused" the mailing of the checks, we think
it a fair inference that those defendants who drew, or those
who cashed, the checks believed that the banks which took
them would mail them to the banks on which they were
drawn, and, assuming the petitioner participated in the
scheme, their knowledge was his knowledge.'
The remaining contention is that the checks were not
mailed in the execution of, or for the purpose of executing,
the scheme. The check delivered to the five defendants
I Weiss v. United States, 120 F. 2d 472; Steiner v. United States,
134 F. 2d 931; Blue v. United States, 138 F. 2d 351.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

by the building' contractor in payment for timber they
claimed to own was cashed by them at a local bank in
Elkton, Maryland. By cashing it they received the
moneys it was intended they should receive under the
scheme. The Elkton bank became the owner of the
check.' The same is true of the bonus check delivered
to defendant Willis and deposited and credited to his account. The banks which cashed or credited the checks,
being holders in due course, were entitled to collect from
the drawee bank in each case and the drawer had no defense to payment. The scheme in each case had reached
fruition. The persons intended to receive the money had
received it irrevocably. It was immaterial to them, or
to any consummation of the scheme, how the bank which
paid or credited the check would collect from the drawee
bank. It cannot be said that the mailings in question
were for the purpose of executing the scheme, as the
statute requires.'
The case is to be distinguished from those where the
mails are used prior to, and as one step toward, the receipt of the fruits of the fraud, such as United States v.
Kenofskey, 243 U. S. 440.' Also to be distinguished are
cases where the use of the mails is a means of concealment so that further frauds which are part of the scheme
5 This is so under the Uniform Negotiable Instruments Act which
has been adopted in Maryland and in Delaware. Anno. Code of
Maryland 1939, Art. 13, § 76; Revised Code of Delaware (1935),
c. 78, Art. 4, § 57. This Act has adopted the rule announced in
Burton v. United States, 196 U. S. 283, 297; City of Douglas v. Federal
Reserve Bank, 271 U. S. 489, 492; Dakin v. Bayly, 290 U. S. 143, 146.
6 McNear v. United States, 60 F. 2d 861; Dyhre v. Hudspeth, 106
F. 2d 286; Stapp v. United States, 120 F. 2d 898; United States v.
McKay, 45 F. Supp. 1001.
7 See also Shea v. United States, 251 F. 440; Spear v. United States,
228 F. 485; Savage v. United States, 270 F. 14; Stewart v. United
States, 300 F. 769; Tincher v. United States, 11 F. 2d 18.

KANN v. UNITED STATES.
88

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

may be perpetrated. 8 In these the mailing has ordinarily
had a much closer relation to further fraudulent conduct
than has the mere clearing of a check, although it is conceivable that this alone, in some settings, would be enough.
The federal mail fraud statute does not purport to reach
all frauds, but only those limited instances in which the
use of the mails is a part of the execution of the fraud,
leaving all other cases to be dealt with by appropriate
state law.
The Government argues that the scheme was not complete, that so long as Elk Mills remained a subcontractor
the defendants expected to receive further bonuses and
profits and that the clearing of these checks in the ordinary course was essential to its further prosecution. But,
even in that view, the scheme was completely executed as
respects the transactions in question when the defendants
received the money intended to be obtained by their fraud,
and the subsequent banking transactions between the
banks concerned were merely incidental and collateral to
the scheme and not a part of it.
We hold, therefore, that one element of the offense defined by the statute, namely, that the mailing must be for
the purpose of executing the fraud, is lacking in the present case. The judgment must be reversed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK,
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur,
dissenting.
I hardly think we would set this conviction aside if the
collecting bank instead of cashing the checks took them
for collection only and refused to pay the defendants until
the checks had been honored by the drawee. It is plain
"See e. g. United States v. Lowe, 115 F. 2d,596; United States v.
Riedel, 126 F. 2d 81; Dunham v. United States, 125 F. 2d 895.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

that the mails would then be used to obtain the fruits of
the fraud. And I do not see why the fraud fails to become
a federal offense merely because the collecting bank cashes
the checks. That would seem to be irrelevant under these
circumstances. As pointed out in Decker v. United States,
140 F. 2d 378, 379, the object of the scheme was to defraud
Triumph; and the use of the mails was an essential step
to that end. It is true that the collecting bank was a
holder in due course against whom the drawer had no
defense. But that does not mean that the fraudulent
scheme had reached fruition at that point of time. Yet
if legal technicalities rather than practical considerations
are to decide that question it should be noted that the
defendants were payee-indorsers of the checks. They had
received only a conditional credit, or payment as the case

may be. It took payment by the drawee to discharge
them from their liability as indorsers. Not until then
would the defendants receive irrevocably the proceeds of
their fraud.
Moreover, this was not the last step in the fraudulent
scheme. It was a continuing venture. Smooth clearances
of the checks were essential lest these intermediate dividends be interrupted and the conspirators be called upon
to disgorge. Different considerations would be applicable
if we were dealing with incidental mailings. But we are
not. To obtain money was the sole object of this fraud.
The use of the malls was crucial to the total success of the
fraudulent project. We are not justified in chopping up
the vital banking phase of the scheme into segments and
isolating one part from the others. That would be warranted if the scheme were to defraud the collecting bank.
But it is plain that these plans had a wider reach and that
but for the use of the mails they would not have been
finally consummated.

