BATES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

BATES v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 92.

Decided November 6, 1944.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a conviction
of the offense of conspiracy to export gold in violation of Executive
Order No. 6260 (31 C. F. R. 50.6), and other offenses, on grounds
conceded to be erroneous by the Government, is vacated. The
Government's contention that the conviction can be. sustained on
other grounds is not passed upon, and the cause is remanded to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, since it is more appropriate that the
contention be considered in the first-instance by that Court. P. 16.
141 F. 2d 436, vacated.
PETITION for a writ of certiorari, herein granted, to
review the affirmance of a conviction of conspiracy to
commit federal offenses.

Messrs. Charles Bushnell Fullertonand Harold V. Snyder were on the brief for petitioner.
Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General
Tom C. Clark, Messrs. Robert S. Erdahl, W. Marvin
Smith, and Miss Beatrice Rosenberg were on the brief for
the United States.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner asks certiorari to review his conviction upon
an: indictment charging criminal conspiracy to commit
several separate offenses. The indictment charged petitioner, one Smith, and another (who was acquitted by
the jury), and persons unknown, with a conspiracy to
acquire gold bullion without a license in violation of ยง 4
of Executive Order 6260 (31 C. F. R. ยง 50.4); to earmark
for export, and to export to Germany gold bullion without
a license, both in violation of ยง 6 of the Order (31 C. F. R.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

ยง 50.6); and with conspiracy to commit two counterfeiting offenses.
At the trial the evidence showed that petitioner, who
was interested in making a profit from the sale of gold,
was introduced by an informer to one Schaetzel, a Government agent who posed as the owner of a gold mine, interested in disposing of gold. Petitioner told Schaetzel a
story, conceded by the Government to be without foundation, to the effect that petitioner wished to procure gold
for sale to Nazi agents in this country who proposed to
transport it to Germany by submarine. Petitioner, who
was in fact seeking other ways of disposing of gold, tried
without success to negotiate with numerous dealers, some
of whose names were suggested to petitioner by Smith on
petitioner's promise to pay him a commission. When
Schaetzel complained to petitioner of the delay in consummating the proposed arrangement with the supposed
Nazi agents, petitioner induced Smith to pose as such to
reassure Schaetzel.
On the verdict of the jury, finding petitioner and Smith
guilty as charged by the indictment, the district court
gave judgment against them. The Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit reversed the conviction of Smith but
affirmed that of petitioner, 141 F. 2d 436, on the ground
that the jury could have found that petitioner had conspired with unknown Nazi agents to export gold.
The Government, by its brief here, formally concedes
that petitioner's conviction cannot be sustained on this
ground. It admits that petitioner's story of his negotiations with Nazi agents was sham, as he testified at the
trial, and as is shown by other evidence submitted to the
jury and by the failure of the Government to produce
evidence of contacts with Nazi agents although petitioner
was under almost constant surveillance by government
agents. The Government also concedes that it has no evidence and that there is none in the record to support peti-

BATES v. UNITED STATES.
15

Opinion of the Court.

tioner's conviction on any theory of a conspiracy to export
gold. It in effect confesses that the affirmance on that
ground is error. The Government also admits that the
conviction cannot be supported on the counterfeiting
charges.
But the Government argues that there is evidence in
the record sufficient to sustain the conviction of petitioner
and Smith of conspiracy to acquire gold without the prescribed license, notwithstanding the Government's failure
to seek a review of the reversal of Smith's conviction. The
district court's instructions to the jury are not included in
the record on appeal. In this state of the record there can
be no question that this charge of the indictment was not
properly submitted to the jury.
On the Government's concession, which we accept, as
to the charge of conspiracy to export gold and to commit
counterfeiting offenses, the judgment of the Court of Appeals cannot be sustained. We do not consider the merits
of the Government's contention that the conviction can
be sustained on other grounds, since, in the circumstances
of this case, we deem it more appropriate that the Court
of Appeals consider that question in the first instance.
Cf. Manufacture;s'Finance Co. v. McKey, 294 U. S. 442,
453-454, and cases cited; United States v. Malphurs, 316
U. S. 1, 3.
The petition for writ of certiorari is granted, the judgment is vacated and the cause remanded to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for further proceedings in conformity to
this opinion.
So ordered.

