OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

323 U. S.

effect hired for a work week of forty hours, or a five-day
week, and his daily wage was to be determined on that
basis. He has not been paid for the sixth day of each
week and should recover straight time and one-half for
the sixth day. This computation accomplishes this, and
there is authority for resort to it."0
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

The

concurs in the result.

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

and- MR.

dissent.

TILLER, EXECUTOR, v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE
RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 335.

Argued January 5, 1945.-Decided January 15, 1945.

1. Whether the railroad's failure to provide the locomotive with a
light on the rear, as required by rules prescribed by the Interstate
Commerce Commission pursuant to the Boiler Inspection Act, proximately contributed to the death of the decedent in this casethough if the light had been provided it would have been obscured by
the cars which the locomotive was pushing in reverse-was a question for the jury. P. 578.
2. The District Court correctly charged the jury in this case that their
verdict should be for the plaintiff if they found that the back-up
movement was unusual and unexpected, that it was made without
adequate warning to the decedent, and that failure to give adequate
warning was the proximate cause of the injury. P. 579.
3. In a suit against a railroad under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act for a death resulting from negligence, an amendment of the
complaint alleging a violation of the Boiler Inspection Act, held not
barred by the three years' limitation of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. P. 580.
2

See St. John v. Brown; Allen v. Moe, supra,Note 10.

TILLER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
574

575

Opinion of the Court.

4. The claim asserted by the amended complaint arose out of the
same conduct, transaction and occurrence set forth in the original
complaint; there was therefore no departure. Rule 15 (c) of the
Rules of Civil Procedure. P. 581.
5. The District Court properly refused to set aside the verdict for the
plaintiff in this case. P. 581.
142 F. 2d 718, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 689, to review the reversal of a judgment for the plaintiff in a suit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. J. Vaughan Gary for petitioner.
Mr. Collins Denny, Jr., with whom Messrs. Thomas W.
Davis and J. M. Townsend were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner's husband was killed while in the performance
of his duties as an employee of respondent railroad. She
filed suit under the Federal Employers Liability Act, 45
U. S. C. ยง 51 et seq., alleging that her husband's death was
caused by the negligent operation of a railroad car which
struck and killed him, and because of respondent's failure
to provide him a reasonably safe place to work. The District Court directed a verdict in favor of the railroad and
the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 128 F. 2d 420. We
reversed, holding that there was sufficient evidence of the
railroad's negligence to require submission of the case to
the jury. Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 318 U. S.
54, 68, 73. On remand, petitioner amended her complaint
in the District Court, over respondent's objection, by
charging that, in addition to the negligence previously
alleged, the decedent's death was caused by the railroad's
violation of the Federal Boiler Inspection Act, 45 U. S. C.
ยง 22 et seq., and Rules and Regulations prescribed by the
Interstate Commerce Commission pursuant to the provi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

sions of that Act. The jury returned a verdict in favor
of petitioner, and the District Court refused to set it aside.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, 142 F. 2d 718, and
certiorari was granted because of the importance of questions involved relating to the administration and enforcement of the Federal Employers Liability Act and the
Federal Boiler Inspection Act.
Here, as in the Circuit Court of Appeals, respondent
has again argued that the evidence of negligence charged
in the original complaint was insufficient to justify submission of the case to the jury. Slight variations in the
evidence presented at the two trials are said to require a
different conclusion than that which we reached on the
first review of this case.
As to this contention of respondent, the Circuit Court
of Appeals said on the second appeal that
"Since the evidence at the second trial in respect to the
movement of the cars was substantially the same as at the
first, this decision [i. e. our decision in 318 U. S. 54] required the District Judge notwithstanding the opposition
of the defendant to submit the case to the jury. Our duty
upon this appeal to affirm the judgment . . . would have
been equally clear if the plaintiff had been content at the
second trial to rest upon the legal theory outlined in the
opinion of the Supreme Court; but the plaintiff amended
the complaint by specifying a new item of negligence
which was submitted to the jury as an alternative ground
for recovery. Since the verdict for the plaintiff was general and did not specify the ground on which it rested, it
becomes necessary for us to determine whether there was
sufficient evidence to justify the submission of this new
theory to the jury over the defendant's objection."
We reaffirm our previous holding that the evidence justified submission to the jury of the issues raised by the
original allegations of negligence.

TILLER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
574

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court of Appeals, however, held that there
was no evidence that the alleged violation of the Boiler
Inspection Act was "the proximate cause of the accident
in whole or in part," and that the District Court should
therefore have directed that this issue be found in favor
of the railroad. The complaint alleged, in this respect,
that the decedent's death was caused by violation of Rules
and Regulations prescribed by the Interstate Commerce
Commission pursuant to the provisions of the Federal
Boiler Inspection Act. That Act broadly authorizes the
Commission to prescribe standards "to remove unnecessary peril to life or limb." 1 The complaint alleged a violation of Rule 131 of the Commission, which reads as
follows:
"Locomotives used in yard service.-Each locomotive
used in yard service between sunset and sunrise shall have
two lights, one located on the front of the locomotive and
one on the rear, each of which shall enable a person in
the cab of the locomotive under the conditions, including
visual capacity, set forth in rule 129, to see a dark object
such as there described for a distance of at least 300 feet
ahead and in front of such headlight; and such headlights
must be maintained in good condition."
The locomotive which pushed backwards the string
of cars one of which struck and killed the deceased was
operated in violation of the literal words of this Regulation. It was being used in "yard service" at respondent's
Clopton Yards "between sunset and sunrise." There was
no light on the rear of the locomotive, which was moving
in reverse towards the deceased.2
I Lilly v. Grand Trunk Western R. Co., 317 U. S. 481, 486; United
States v. B. & 0. R. Co., 293 U. S.454.
2 The contention is made that since this locomotive was used in
road service as well as yard service the Rule should be held inapplicable to it as a matter of law. Such a narrow interpretation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

It was for the jury to determine whether the failure to
provide this required light on the rear of the locomotive
proximately contributed to the deceased's death. The
ruling of the court below that it was not a proximate
cause was based on this reasoning: The general railroad
practice in yard movements is to push cars attached to
the rear of an engine; no express regulation of the Commission prohibits this; in the instant case the cars attached to the engine necessarily would have obscured any
light on the rear of that engine; the light so obscured
would not have enabled the engineer to see 300 feet backwards so as to avoid injuring the deceased nor would the
light have been visible to the deceased standing at or near
the track ahead of the backward movement. Therefore,
the court concluded, the failure to furnish the light was
not proximately related to the death of Tiller.
Assuming, without deciding, that the railroad could consistently with Rule 131 obscure the required light on the
rear of the engine, it does not follow that, as a matter of
law, failure to have the light did not contribute to Tiller's
death. The deceased met his death on a dark night, and
the diffused rays of a strong headlight even though
directly obscured from the front, might easily have spread
Regulation would be wholly out of keeping with the liberal construction which we have constantly said must be given to this and
the Safety Appliance Act, 45 U. S. C. A., ยง 1 et seq. Lilly v. Grand
Trunk Western 1. Co., supra, 486.
We think the court's charge to the jury on this point was consistent with a proper interpretation of the rule. That charge was:
"If the jury believes from the evidence that the road engine, on the
night Mr. Tiller was injured, in making the movements it made in
said yard was being used by the defendant to classify its cars and
make up its train, then the said engine was then being used in yard
service. On the other hand, if the jury believes from the evidence
that the said road engine was backing into slow siding for the purpose
of getting out of the way of the yard engine so that said yard engine
could classify cars and make up trains, then said locomotive in making
said movement was not being used in yard service."

TILLER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
574

579

Opinion of the Court.

themselves so that one standing within three car-lengths
of the approaching locomotive would have been given
warning of its presence, oif at least so the jury might have
found. The backward movement of cars on a dark night
in an unlit yard was potentially perilous to those compelled to work in the yard. Tennant v. Peoria& P. U. R.
Co., 321 U. Si 29, 33. And "The standard of care must
be commensurate to the dangers of the business." Tiller
v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., supra, 67.
An additional gtound of the reversal of this cause by
the Circuit Court of Appeals was that part of the District
Court's charge to the jury set out in the margin.' It instructed the jury that if they believed that the back-up
movement w s an unusual and unexpected one, and a
departure from the general practice in making up that
particular train, and that Tiller had no reasonable cause
to believe that such a movement would be made, it became the duty of the defendant to give him adequate
warning of that movement and if the jury found that the
defendant failed to perform this duty, and that failure
was the proximate cause of the injuryj its verdict should
be for the plaintiff. The original complaint alleged this
as one of the grounds of negligence. The Circuit Court of
Appeals held that there was substantial testimony to
support a finding that the movement was an unusual one.
3"The Court charges the jury that if you believe, from the evidence
that Mr. Tiller was struck while the engine and cars of the defendant
were making a back-upsmovement on the night of March 20th, 1940;
that such movement was an unusual and an unexpected one and a
departure from the general practice followed in making up train No.
209; that Mr. Tiller on the oceasion in question was working on or
near the slow siding without knowing or having reasonable cause to
believe that such a movement would be made, then it became and
was the duty of the defendant in making such movement to give
adequate warning of the same, and if the jury believe from the evidence that the defendant failed to perform such duty and as a
proximate result of such failure, Mr. Tiller received the injuries from
which he died, then the jury should return a verdict for the plaintiff."

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

Nevertheless, because no railroad rule or custom prohibited such an unusual movement, because some of the
evidence showed that the same movement had been performed on other occasions, and because Tiller was familiar
with the local situation, the Circuit Court of Appeals held
that the railroad owed no duty to warn him of such an
unusual movement. We cannot say that a jury could
not reasonably find negligence from the evidence which
showed such an unprecedented departure from the usual
custom and practice in backing cars, without giving "adequate warning of the movement." Compare Toledo,
St. L. & W. R. Co. v. Allen, 276 U. S. 165, 171.' The
charge of the District Court in this respect was correct.
Respondent seeks to support the Circuit Court's reversal of the cause on the ground that the District Court
erroneously permitted petitioner to amend her original
complaint. The injury occurred March 21, 1940. Suit
was filed under the Federal Employers Liability Act on
January 17, 1941. The amendment alleging violation of
the Boiler Inspection Act was filed June 1, 1943, which was
more than three years after the death. Federal Employers Liability Act, ยง 6, provides that a suit under that
Act must be commenced within three years after injury.
The contention is that the three-year limitation statute
provided in the Federal Employers Liability Act barred
the amendment which rested on the Boiler Inspection
Act.
We are of the opinion that the amendment was properly permitted. Section 15 (c) of the Federal Rules of
4See

Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co. v. De Atley, 241 U. S. 310; Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co. v. Peyton, 253 F. 734 (C. C. A. 4); Ferringerv.
Crowley Oil & Mineral Co., 122 La. 441, 47 So. 763; Louisville &
Nashville R. Co. v. Asher's Adm'r, 178 Ky. 67, 198 S. W. 548; Director
General v. Hubbard'sAdm'r, 132 Va. 193, 111 S. E. 446; 2 Shearman
& Redfield on Negligence (rev. ed.), 566, 607; cf. Davis v. Philadelphia & Reading R. Co., 276 F. 187.

TILLER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
574

581

Opinion of the Court.

Civil Procedure provides that "Whenever the claim or defense asserted in the amended pleading arose out of the
conduct, transaction, or occurrence set forth or attempted
to be set forth in the original pleading, the amendment
relates back to the date of the original pleading." The
original complaint in this case alleged a failure to provide
a proper lookout for deceased, to give him proper warning
of the approach of the train, to keep the head car properly
lighted, to warn the deceased of an unprecedented and
unexpected change in the manner of shifting cars. The
amended complaint charged the failure to have the locomotive properly lighted. Both of them related to the
same general conduct, transaction and occurrence which
involved the death of the deceased. There was therefore
no departure. The cause of action now, as it was in the
beginning, is the same-it is a suit to recover damages
for the alleged wrongful death of the deceased. "The
effect of the amendment here was to facilitate a fair trial
of the existing issues between plaintiff and defendant."
Maty v. Grasselli Co., 303 U. S. 197, 201. There is no reason to apply a statute of limitations when, as here, the
respondent has had notice from the beginning that petitioner was trying to enforce a claim against it because
of the events leading up to the death of the deceased in
the respondent's yard.'
We find no error in the District Court's disposition of
the case. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS are of
the opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be affirmed.
C See Friederichsenv. Renard, 247 U. S. 207; United States v. Memphis Cotton Oil Co., 288 U. S. 62; United States v. Powell, 93 F. 2d
788, 790.

