OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

323 U. S.

STEELE v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD
CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 45. Argued November 14, 15, 1944.-Decided December 18,1944.
1. The Railway Labor Act imposes on a labor organization, acting
by authority of the statute as the exclusive bargaining representative of a craft or class of railway employees, the duty to represent
all the employees in the craft without discrimination because of
their race, and the courts have jurisdiction to protect the minority
of the craft or class from the violation of such obligation. P. 199.
2. The Railway Labor Act imposes on the statutory representative
of a craft at least as exacting a duty to protect equally the interests
of a member of the craft as the Constitution imposes upon a legislature to give equal protection to the interests of those for whom
it legislates. The Act confers on the bargaining representative powers comparable to those possessed by a legislative body both to
create and restrict the rights of those whom it represents, but it
also imposes on the representative a corresponding duty. P. 202.
3. So long as a labor union assumes to act as the statutory representative of a craft, it cannot rightly refuse to perform the duty, which
is inseparable from the power of representation conferred upon it,
to represent the entire membership of the craft. While the statute
does not deny to such a bargaining labor organization the right to
determine eligibility to its membership, it does require the union,
in collective bargaining and in making contracts with the carrier, to
represent non-union or minority union members of the craft without hostile discrimination, fairly, impartially, and in good faith.
Wherever necessary to that end, the union is required to consider
requests of non-union members of the craft and expressions of their
views with respect to collective bargaining with the employer and
to give to them notice of and opportunity for hearing upon its proposed action. P. 204.
4. The right asserted by the petitioner, to a remedy for breach of the
statutory duty of the bargaining representative to represent and
act for the members of a craft without discrimination against
Negroes solely because of their race, is claimed under the Constitution and a statute of the United States; and the adverse decision of the highest court of the State is reviewable here under § 237
(b) of the Judicial Code. P. 204.

STEELE v. L. & N. R. CO.
192

Opinion of the Court.

5. The petitioner here has. no available administrative remedy under
the Railway Labor Act, and the bill of complaint states a cause of
action entitling him to relief. P. 205.
6. The Railway Labor Act contemplates resort to the usual judicial
remedies of injunction and award of damages when appropriate
for breach of the duty imposed by the statute on a union representative of a craft to represent the interests of all its members.
P. 207.
245 Ala. 113, 16 So. 2d 416, reversed.

CERTIORARI,,322 U. S. 722, to review the affirmance of a
judgment sustaining a demurrer to a complaint asserting a federal right.

.Mr. Charles H. Houston, with whom Mr. Arthur D.
Shores was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Charles H. Eyster, with whom Mr. White E. Gibson was on the brief, for the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co.; and Mr. James A. Simpson, with whom Messrs.
Harold C. Heiss, Russell B. Day, and John W. Lapsley
were on the brief, for the Brotherhood of Locomotive
Firemen & Enginemen et al., respondents.
Solicitor General Fahy, Messrs. Robert L. Stern, Alvin
J. Rockwell, Joseph B. Robison, Frank Donner, Marcel
Mallet-Provost and Miss Ruth Weyand filed a brief on
behalf of the United States; Messrs. Thurgood Marshall
and William H. Hastie on behalf of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; and Messrs.

Edgar Watkins, John D. Miller, Arthur Garfield Hays,
R. Beverley Herbert, and T. Pope Shepherd on behalf of
the American Civil Liberties Union, as amici curiae, in
support of petitioner.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question is whether the Railway Labor Act, 48 Stat.
1185, 45 U. S. C. §§ 151 et seq., imposes on a labor organi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

zation, acting by authority of the statute as the exclusive
bargaining representative of a craft or class of railway
employees, the duty to represent all the employees in the
craft without discrimination because of their race, and,
if so, whether the courts have jurisdiction to protect the
minority of the craft or class from the violation of such
obligation.
The issue is raised by demurrer to the substituted
amended bill of complaint filed by petitioner, a locomotive
fireman, in a suit brought in the Alabama Circuit Court
against his employer, the Louisville & Nashville Railroad
Company, the Brotherhood of Locomotive, Firemen and
Enginemen, an unincorporated labor organization, and
certain individuals representing the Brotherhood. The
Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, and the Supreme
Court of Alabama affirmed. 245 Ala. 113, 16 So. 2d 416.
We granted certiorari, 322 U. S. 722, the question presented being one of importance in the administration of
the Railway Labor Act.
The allegations of the bill of complaint, so far as now
material, are as follows: Petitioner, a Negro, is a locomotive fireman in the employ of respondent Railroad,
suing on his own behalf and that of his fellow employees
who, like petitioner, are Negro firemen employed by the
Railroad. Respondent Brotherhood, a labor organization,
is, as provided under § 2, Fourth of the Railway Labor
Act, the exclusive bargaining representative of the craft
of firemen employed by the Railroad and is recognized as
such by it and the members of the craft. The majority
of the firemen employed by the Railroad are white and
are members of the Brotherhood, but a substantial minority are Negroes who, by the constitution and ritual of the
Brotherhood, are excluded from its membership. As the
membership of the Brotherhood constitutes a majority of
all firemen employed on respondent Railroad, and as
under § 2, Fourth the members because they are the ma-

STEELE v. L. & N. R. CO.
192

Opinion of the Court.

jority have the right to choose and have chosen the
Brotherhood to represent the craft, petitioner and other
Negro firemen on the road have been required to accept
the Brotherhood as their representative for the purposes
of the Act.
On March 28, 1940, the Brotherhood, purporting to act
as representative of the entire craft of firemen, without informing the Negro firemen or giving them opportunity to
be heard, served a notice on respondent Railroad and on
twenty other railroads operating principally in the southeastern part of the United States. The notice announced
the Brotherhood's desire to amend the existing collective
bargaining agreement in such manner as ultimately to
exclude all Negro firemen from the service. By established practice on the several railroads so notified only
white firemen can be promoted to serve as engineers, and
the notice proposed that only "promotable," i. e. white,
men should be employed as firemen or assigned to new
runs or jobs or permanent vacancies in established runs
or jobs.
On February 18, 1941, the railroads and the Brotherhood, as representative of the craft, entered into a new
agreement which provided that not more than 50% of the
firemen in each class of service in each seniority district of
a carrier should be Negroes; that until such percentage
should be reached all new runs and all vacancies should
be filled by white men; and that the agreement did not
sanction the employment of Negroes in any seniority district in which they were not working. The agreement
reserved the right of the Brotherhood to negotiate for further restrictions on the employment of Negro firemen on
the individual railroads. On May 12, 1941, the Brotherhood entered into a supplemental agreement with respondent Railroad further controlling the seniority rights
of Negro firemen and restricting their employment. The
Negro firemen were not given notice or opportunity to be

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

heard with respect to either of these agreements, which
were put into effect before their existence was disclosed to
the Negro firemen.
Until April 8, 1941, petitioner was in a "passenger pool,"
to which one white and five Negro firemen were assigned.
These jobs were highly desirable in point of wages, hours
and other considerations. Petitioner had performed and
was performing his work satisfactorily. Following a reduction in the mileage covered by the pool, all jobs in the
pool were, about April 1, 1941, declared vacant. The
Brotherhood and the Railroad, acting under the agreement, disqualified all the Negro firemen and replaced them
with four white men, members of the Brotherhood, all
junior in seniority to petitioner and no more competent
or worthy. As a consequence petitioner was deprived of
employment for sixteen days and then was assigned to
more arduous, longer, and less remunerative work in local
freight service. In conformity to the agreement, he was
later replaced by a Brotherhood member junior to him,
and assigned work on a switch engine, which was still
harder and less remunerative, until January 3, 1942. On
that date, after the bill of complaint in the present suit
had been filed, he was reassigned to passenger service.
Protests and appeals of petitioner and his fellow Negro
firemen, addressed to the Railroad and the Brotherhood, in
an effort to secure relief and redress, have been ignored.
Respondents have expressed their intention to enforce the
agreement of February 18, 1941 and its subsequent modifications. The Brotherhood has acted and asserts the right
to act as exclusive bargaining representative of the firemen's craft. It is alleged that in that capacity it is under
an obligation and duty imposed by the Act to represent
the Negro firemen impartially and in good faith; but instead, in its notice to and contracts with the railroads, it
has been hostile and disloyal to the Negro firemen, has
deliberately discriminated against them, and has sought

STEELE v. L. & N. R. CO.
192,

Opinion of the Court.

to deprive them of their seniority rights and to drive them
out of employment in their craft, all in order to create a
monopoly of employment for Brotherhood members.
The bill of complaint asks for discovery of the manner
in which the agreements have been applied and in other
respects; for an injunction against enforcement of the
agreements made between the Railroad and the Brotherhood; for an injunction against the Brotherhood. and its
agents from purporting to act as representative of petitioner and others similarly situated under the Railway
Labor Act, so long as the discrimination continues, and so
long -as it refuses to give them notice and hearing with
respect to proposals affecting their interests; for a declaratory judgment as to their rights; and for an award of damages against ihe Brotherhood for its wrongful conduct.
The Supreme Court of Alabama took jurisdiction of the
cause but held on the merits that petitioner's complaint
stated no cause of action.' It pointed out that the Act
places a mandatory duty on the Railroad to treat with the
Brotherhood as the exclusive representative of the employees in a craft, imposes heavy criminal penalties for
willful failure to comply with its command, and provides
' The respondents urge that the Circuit Court sustained their demurrers on the ground that the suit could not be maintained against
the Brotherhood, an unincorporated association, since by Alabama
statute such an association cannot be sued unless the action lies against
all its members individually, and on several other state-law grounds.
They argue accordingly that the judgment of affirmance of the state
Supreme Court may be rested on an adequate non-federal ground.
As that court specifically rested its decision on the sole -ground that
the Railway Labor Act places no duty upon the Brotherhood to
protect petitioner and other Negro firemen from the alleged discriminatory treatment, the judgment rests wholly on a federal ground,
to which we confine our review. Grayson v. Harris, 267 U. S. 352,
358; InternationalSteel Co. v. National Surety Co., 297 U.S. 657, 666;
Indiana ex rel. Anderson v. Brand,'303 U. S. 95, 98, 99 and cases
cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

that the majority of any craft shall have the right to determine who shall be the representative of the class for
collective bargaining with the employer, see Virginian R.
Co. v. System Federation,300 U. S. 515, 545. It thought
that the Brotherhood was empowered by the statute to
enter into the agreement of February 18, 1941, and that
by virtue of the statute the Brotherhood has power by
agreement with the Railroad both to create the seniority
rights of petitioner and his fellow Negro employees and to
destroy them. It construed the statute, not as creating
the relationship of principal and agent between the members of the craft and the Brotherhood, but as conferring
on the Brotherhood plenary authority to treat with the
Railroad and enter into contracts fixing rates of pay and
working conditions for the craft as a whole without any
legal obligation or duty to protect the rights of minorities
from discrimination or unfair treatment, however gross.
Consequently it held that neither the Brotherhood nor
the Railroad violated any rights of petitioner or his fellow
Negro employees by negotiating the contracts discriminating against them.
If, as the state court has held, the Act confers this
power on the bargaining representative of a craft or class
of employees without any commensurate statutory duty
toward its members, constitutional questions arise. For
the representative is clothed with power not unlike that
of a legislature which is subject to constitutional limitations on its power to deny, restrict, destroy or discriminate
against the rights of those for whom it legislates and
which is also under an affirmative constitutional duty
equally to protect those rights. If the Railway Labor
Act purports to impose on petitioner and the other Negro
members of the craft the legal duty to comply with the
terms of a contract whereby the representative has discriminatorily restricted their employment for the benefit
and advantage of the Brotherhood's own members, we

STEELE v. L. & N. R. CO.
192

Opinion of the Court.

must decide the constitutional questions which petitioner
raises in his pleading.
But we think that Congress, in enacting the Railway
Labor Act and authorizing a labor union, chosen by a
majority of a craft, to represent the craft, did not intend
to confer plenary power upon the union to sacrifice, for the
benefit of its members, rights of the minority of the craft,
without imposing on it any duty to protect the minority.
Since petitioner and the other Negro members of the craft
are not members of the Brotherhood or eligible for membership, the authority to act for them is derived not from
their action or consent but wholly from the command of
the Act. Section 2, Fourth provides: "Employees shall
have the right to organize and bargain collectively through
representatives of their own choosing. The majority of
any craft or class of employees shall have the right to
determine who shall be the representative of the craft or
class for the purposes of this Act. . . ." Under § § 2,
Sixth and Seventh, when the representative bargains for
a change of working conditions, the latter section specifies
that they are the working conditions of employees "as a
class." Section 1, Sixth of the Act defines "representative"
as meaning "Any person or . . . labor union . . . desig-

nated either by a carrier or group of carriers or by its or
their employees, to act for it or them." The use of the
word "representative," as thus defined and in all the contexts in which it is found, plainly implies that the representative is to act on behalf of all the employees which,
by virtue of the statute, it undertakes to represent.
By the terms of the Act, § 2, Fourth, the employees are
permitted to act "through" their representative, and it
represents them "for the purposes of" the Act. Sections 2,
Third, Fourth, Ninth. The purposes of the Act declared
by § 2 are the avoidance of "any interruption to commerce
or to the operation of any carrier engaged therein," and
this aim is sought to be achieved by encouraging "the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

prompt and orderly settlement of all disputes concerning
rates of pay, rules, or working conditions." Compare
Texas & New OrleansR. Co. v. Brotherhood of Clerks, 281
U. S.548, 569. These purposes would hardly be attained
if a substantial minority of the craft were denied the right
to have their interests considered at the conference table
and if the final result of the bargaining process were to be
the sacrifice of the interests of the minority by the action
of a representative chosen by the majority. The only recourse of the minority would be to strike, with the attendant interruption of commerce, which the Act seeks to
avoid.
Section 2, Second, requiring carriers to bargain with the
representative so chosen, operates to exclude any other
from representing a craft. Virginian R. Co. v. System
Federation,supra, 545. The minority members of a craft
are thus deprived by the statute of the right, which they
would otherwise possess, to choose a representative of their
own, and its members cannot bargain individually on
behalf of themselves as to matters which are properly the
subject of collective bargaining. Order of Railroad Telegraphersv. Railway Express Agency, 321 U. S.342, and see
under the like provisions of the National Labor Relations
Act J. I. Case Co. v. Labor Board,321 U. S.332, and Medo
Photo Supply Corp. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S.678.
The labor organization chosen to be the representative
of the craft or class of employees is thus chosen to represent all of its members, regardless of their union affiliations
or want of them. As we have pointed out with respect to
the like provision of the National Labor Relations Act in
J. I. Case Co. v. Labor Board, supra, 338, "The very purpose of providing by statute for the collective agreement
is to supersede the terms of separate agreements of employees with terms which reflect the strength and bargaining power and serve the welfare of the group. Its benefits
and advantages are open to every employee of the repre-

STEELE v. L. & N. R. CO.
192

Opinion of the Court.

sented unit ... ." The purpose of providing for a representative is to secure those benefits for those who are
represented and not to deprive them or any of them of
the benefits of collective bargaining for the advantage of
the representative or those members of the craft who
selected it.
As the National Mediation Board said in In The Matter
of Representation of Employees of the St. Paul Union
Depot Company, Case No. R-635: "Once a craft or class
has designated its representative, such representative is
responsible under the law to act for all employees within
the craft or class, those who are not members of the
represented organization, as well as those who are

members."

2

Unless the labor union representing a craft owes some
duty to represent non-union members of the craft, at least
to the extent of not discriminating against them as such
in the contracts which it makes as their representative,
the minority would be left with no means of protecting
their interests or, indeed, their right to earn a livelihood
by pursuing the occupation in which they are employed.
2

The Mediation Board's decision in this case was set aside in
Brotherhood of Clerks v. United Transport Service Employees, ,137
F. 2d 817, reversed on jurisdictional grounds, 320 U. S. 715. The
Court of Appeals was of the opinion that a representative is not only
required to act in behalf of all the employees in a bargaining-unit,
but that a labor organization which excludes a minority of a craft
from its membership has no standing to act as such representative of
the minority.
The Act has been similarly interpreted by the Emergency Board
referred to in General Committee v. Southern Pacific Co., 320 U. S.
338, 340, 342-343 n. It declared in 1937: "When a craft or class,
through representatives chosen by a majority, negotiates a contract
with a carrier, all members of the craft or class share in the rights
secured by the contract, regardless of their affiliations with any
organization of employees . . . The representatives of the major-

ity represent the whole craft or class in the making of an agreement
for the benefit of all ......

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

While the majority of the craft chooses the bargaining
representative, when chosen it represents, as the Act by its
terms makes plain, the craft or class, and not the majority.
The fair interpretation of the statutory language is that
the organization chosen to represent a craft is to represent
all its members, the majority as well as the minority, and
it is to act for and not against those whom it represents.'
It is a principle of general application that the exercise of
a granted power to act in behalf of others involves the
assumption toward them of a duty to exercise the power
in their interest and behalf, and that such a grant of power
will not be deemed to dispense with all duty toward those
for whom it is exercised unless so expressed.
We think that the Railway Labor Act imposes upon the
statutory representative of a craft at least as exacting a
duty to protect equally the interests of the members of
the craft as the Constitution imposes upon a legislature
to give equal protection to the interests of those for whom
it legislates. Congress has seen fit to clothe the bargaining representative with powers comparable to those possessed by a legislative body both to create and restrict the
rights of those whom it represents, cf. J. I. Case Co. v.
Labor Board, supra, 335, but it has also imposed on the
representative a corresponding duty. We hold that the
language of the Act to which we have referred, read in the
light of the purposes of the Act, expresses the aim of Congress to impose on the bargaining representative of a craft
8Compare the House Committee Report on the N. L. R. A. (H.
Rep. No. 1147, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 20-22) indicating that
although the principle of majority rule "written into the statute books
by Congress in the Railway Labor Act of 1934" was to be applicable
to the bargaining unit under the N. L. R. A., the employer was required to give "equally advantageous terms to nonmembers of the
labor organization negotiating the agreement." See also the Senate
Committee Report on the N. L. R. A. to the same effect. S. Rep. No.
573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 13.

STEELE v. L. & N. R. CO.
192

Opinion of the Court.

or class of employees the duty to exercise fairly the power
conferred upon it in behalf of all those for whom it acts,
without hostile discrimination against them.
This does not mean that the statutory representative
of a craft is barred from making contracts which may have
unfavorable effects on some of the members of the craft
represented. Variations in the terms of the contract based
on differences relevant to the authorized purposes of the

contract in conditions to which they are to be applied, such
as differences in seniority, the type of work performed, the

competence and skill with which it is performed, are within
the scope of the bargaining representation of a craft, all
of whose members are not identical in their interest or
merit. Cf. Carmichael v. Southern Coal Co., 301 U. S.
495, 509-510, 512 and cases cited; Washington v. Superior
Court, 289 U. S. 361, 366; Metropolitan Casualty Co. v.
Brownell, 294 U. S. 580,583. Without attempting to mark
the allowable limits of differences in the terms of contracts based on differences of conditions to which they
apply, it is enough for present purposes to say that the
statutory power to represent a craft and to make contracts as to wages, hours and working conditions does not
include the authority to make among members of the craft
discriminations not based on such relevant differences.
Here the discriminations based on race alone are obviously
irrelevant and invidious. Congress plainly did not undertake to authorize the bargaining representative to make
such discriminations. Cf. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.
356; Yu Cong Eng v. Trinidad, 271 U. S. 500; Missouri
ex rel. Gaines v. Canada,305 U. S. 337; Hill v. Texas, 316
U. S. 400.
The representative which thus discriminates may be
enjoined from so doing, and its members may be enjoined
from taking the benefit of such discriminatory action.
No more is the Railroad bound by or entitled to take the
benefit of a contract which the bargaining representative

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

is prohibited by the statute from making. In both cases
the right asserted, which is derived from the duty imposed by the statute on the bargaining representative,
is a federal right implied from the statute and the policy
which it has adopted. It is the federal statute which condemns as unlawful the Brotherhood's conduct. "The
extent and nature of the legal consequences of this condemnation, though left by the statute to judicial determination, are nevertheless to be derived from it and the
federal policy which it has adopted." Deitrickv. Greaney,
309 U. S. 190, 200-201; Board of County Commissioners v.
UnitedStates, 308 U. S. 343; Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson
Co., 317 U. S. 173, 176-7; cf. Clearfield Trust Co. v. United
States, 318 U. S. 363.
So long as a labor union assumes to act as the statutory
representative of a craft, it cannot rightly refuse to perform the duty, which is inseparable from the power of representation conferred upon it, to represent the entire
membership of the craft. While the statute does not deny
to such a bargaining labor organization the right to determine eligibility to its membership, it does require the
union, in collective bargaining and in making contracts
with the carrier, to represent non-union or minority union
members of the craft without hostile discrimination, fairly,
impartially, and in good faith. Wherever necessary to
that end, the union is required to consider requests of nonunion members of the craft and expressions of their views
with respect to collective bargaining with the employer
and to give to them notice of and opportunity for hearing
upon its proposed action.
Since the right asserted by petitioner "is . . . claimed
under the Constitution" and a "statute of the United
States," the decision of the Alabama court, adverse to that
contention is reviewable here under § 237 (b) of the Judicial Code, unless the Railway Labor Act itself has excluded
petitioner's claims from judicial consideration. The ques-

STEELE v. L. & N. R. CO.
192

205

Opinion of the Court.

tion here presented is not one of a jurisdictional dispute,
determinable under the administrative scheme set up by
the Act, cf. Switchmen's Union v. National Mediation
Board, 320 U. S.297; General Committee v. M.-K.-T. R.
Co., 320 U. S.323; General Committee v. Southern Pacific
Co., 320 U. S. 338; Brotherhoodof Clerks v. United Transport Service Employees, 320 U. S. 715, 816, or restricted by
the Act to voluntary settlement by recourse to the traditional implements of mediation, conciliation and arbitration. General Committee v. M.-K.-T. R. Co., supra, 332,
337. There is no question here of who is entitled to represent the craft, or who are members of it, issues which have
been relegated for settlement to the Mediation Board,
Switchmen's Union v. National Mediation Board, supra;
General Committee v. M.-K.-T. R. Co., supra. Nor are
there differences as to the interpretation of the contract
which by the Act are committed to the jurisdiction of the
Railroad Adjustment Board.
Section 3, First (i), which provides for reference to the
Adjustment Board of "disputes between an employee or
group of employees and a carrier or carriers growing out
of grievances or out of the interpretation or application
of agreements," makes no reference to disputes between
employees and their representative. Even though the
dispute between the railroad and the petitioner were to
be heard by the Adjustment Board, that Board could not
give the entire relief here sought. The Adjustment Board
has consistently declined in more than 400 cases to entertain grievance complaints by individual members of a
craft represented by a labor organization. "The only way
that an individual may prevail is by taking his case to
the union and causing the union to carry it through to the
Board." Administrative Procedure in Government Agencies, S. Doc. No. 10, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., Pt. 4, p. 7.
Whether or notjudicial power might be exerted to require
the Adjustment Board to consider individual grievances,

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

as to which we express no opinion, we cannot say that
there is an administrative remedy available to petitioner
or that resort to such proceedings in order to secure a possible administrative remedy, which is withheld or denied,
is prerequisite to relief in equity. Further, since § 3, First
(c) permits the national labor organizations chosen by the
majority of the crafts to "prescribe the rules under which
the labor members of the Adjustment Board shall be selected" and to "select such members and designate the division on which each member shall serve," the Negro firemen would be required to appear before a group which
is in large part chosen by the respondents against whom
their real complaint is made. In addition § 3, Second
provides that a carrier and a class or craft of employees,
"all acting through their representatives, selected in accordance with the provisions of this Act," may agree to
the establishment of a regional board of adjustment for
the purpose of adjusting disputes of the type which may
be brought before the Adjustment Board. In this way
the carrier and the representative against whom the Negro
firemen have complained have power to supersede entirely
the Adjustment Board's procedure and to create a tribunal
of their own selection to interpret and apply the agreements now complained of to which they are the only
parties. We cannot say that a hearing, if available, before
either of these tribunals would constitute an adequate
administrative remedy. Cf. Tumey v. Ohio, 273 U. S. 510.
There is no administrative means by which the Negro firemen can secure separate representation for the purposes
of collective bargaining. For the Mediation Board "has
definitely ruled that a craft or class of employees may not
be divided into two or more on the basis of race or color
for the purpose of choosing representatives."'
' National Mediation Board, The Railway Labor Act and the National Mediation Board, p. 17; see In the Matter of Representation
of Employees of the Central of Georgia Ry. Co., Case No. R-234;

STEELE v. L. & N. R. CO.
192

Opinion of the Court.

In the absence of any available administrative remedy,
the right here asserted, to a remedy for breach of the statutory duty of the bargaining representative to represent
and act for the members of a craft, is of judicial cognizance.
That right would be sacrificed or obliterated if it were
without the remedy which courts can give for breach of
such a duty or obligation and which it is their duty to give
in cases in which they have jurisdiction. Switchmen's
Union v. National Mediation Board, supra, 300; Stark v.
Wickard, 321 U. S. 288,306-7. Here, unlike GeneralCommittee v. M.-K.- T. R. Co., supra,and General Committee
v. Southern Pacific Co., supra, there can be no doubt of
the justiciability of these claims. As we noted in General
Committee v. M.-K.-T. R. Co., supra, 331, the statutory
provisions which are in issue are stated in the form of commands. For the present command there is no mode of
enforcement other than resort to the courts, whose jurisdiction and duty to afford a remedy for a breach of statutory duty are left unaffected. The right is analogous to
the statutory right of employees to require the employer
to bargain with the statutory representative of a craft, a
right which this Court has enforced and protected by its
injunction in Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Brotherhood
of Clerks, supra, 556-557, 560, and in Virginian R. Co. v.
System Federation,supra,548, and like it is one for which
there is no available administrative remedy.
We conclude that the duty which the statute imposes
on a union representative of a craft to represent the interests of all its members stands on no different footing and
that the statute contemplates resort to the usual judicial
remedies of injunction and award of damages when appropriate for breach of that duty.
In the Matter of Representation of Employees of the St. Paul Union

Depot Co., Case No. R-635, set aside in Brotherhood of Clerks v.
United Transport Service Employees, 137 F. 2d 817, reversed on jurisdictional grounds, 320 U. S. 715.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY, J.,

concurring.

323 U. S.

The judgment is accordingly reversed and remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JusncE BLACK

concurs in the result.

MR. JusTicE MURPHY, concurring.
The economic discrimination against Negroes practiced
by the Brotherhood and the railroad under color of Congressional authority raises a grave constitutional issue
that should be squarely faced.
The utter disregard for the dignity and the well-being
of colored citizens shown by this record is so pronounced
as to demand the invocation of constitutional condemnation. To decide the case and to analyze the statute solely
upon the basis of legal niceties, while remaining mute
and placid as to the obvious and oppressive deprivation of
constitutional guarantees, is to make the judicial function
something less than it should be.
The constitutional problem inherent in this instance is
clear. Congress, through the Railway Labor Act, has
conferred upon the union selected by a majority of a craft
or class of railway workers the power to represent the
entire craft or class in all collective bargaining matters.
While such a union is essentially a private organization,
its power to represent and bind all members of a class or
craft is derived solely from Congress. The Act contains
no language which directs the manner in which the bargaining representative shall perform its duties. But it
cannot be assumed that Congress meant to authorize the
representative to act so as to ignore rights guaranteed by
the Constitution. Otherwise the Act would bear the
stigma of unconstitutionality under the Fifth Amendment
in this respect. For that reason I am willing to read the
statute as not permitting or allowing any action by the

STEELE v. L. & N. R. CO.
192

MuRPHY, J., concurring.

bargaining representative in the exercise of its delegated
powers which would in effect violate the constitutional
rights of individuals.
If the Court's construction of the statute rests upon this
basis, I agree. But I am not sure that such is the basis.
Suffice it to say, however, that this constitutional issue
cannot be lightly dismissed. The cloak of racism surrounding the actions of the Brotherhood in refusing membership to Negroes and in entering into and enforcing
agreements discriminating against them, all under the
guise of Congressional authority, still remains. No statutory interpretation can erase this ugly example of economic
cruelty against colored citizens of the United States.
Nothing can destroy the fact that the accident of birth
has been used as the basis to abuse individual rights by
an organization purporting to act in conformity with its
Congressional mandate. Any attempt to interpret the
Act must take that fact into account and must realize
that the constitutionality of the statute in this respect
depends upon the answer given.
The Constitution voices its disapproval whenever economic discrimination is applied under authority of law
against any race, creed or color. A sound democracy cannot allow such discrimination to go unchallenged. Racism is far too virulent today to permit the slightest refusal,
in the light of a Constitution that abhors it, to expose
and condemn it wherever it appears in the course of a
statutory interpretation.

