CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMM'R.

141

Counsel for Parties.

CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF 'APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 28 and 29. Argued October 19, 20, 1944.-Decided December
4, 1944.
1. Whether, by virtue of § 276c (3) of the BankruptcyAct, § 270 was
applicable to a proceeding under § 77B in which a final decree had
been entered prior to the effective date of the Chandler, Act
is a question of law in respect of which the doctrine of Dobson v.
Commissioner, 320 U. S. 489, is inapplicable and the determination
of the Tax Court is not final. P. .145.,
2. Section 270 of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended, requiring that for
income tax purposes the.basis of the debtor's property be decreased
in the amount by which the indebtedness of the debtor has. been
canceled or reduced in a Chapter X proceeding, held not made applicable, by § 276c (3), to a § 77B proceeding in which a final decree
had been entered prior to the effective date of the Chandler Act.
P. 159.
3. Retroactive application of a statute, is not favored. P. 164.
4. The findings of the Tax Court in this case.as to the original cost
of the property and the propriety of deductions of certain expenses
were within'the principle of the Dobson case. P. 165.
138 F. 2d 962, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

321 U. S.759, to review the reversal of a

decision of the Tax Court, 1 T. C. 163, setting aside, in
part, deficiency assessments of income and excess profits
taxes.
Mr. John E. Hughes for petitioner.
Mr. Chester T. Lane, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., Messrs.
Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch, and Mrs. Muriel S. Paul
were on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. H. Brian Holland, as amicus curiae, filed a brief
urging reversal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944..'
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

323 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The issues arise out of deficiency assessments made in
respect to petitioner's federal income and excess profits
taxes for the years 1935 to 1938 inclusive. They involve
the applicability of § 270 of the Bankruptcy Act, as
amended,' so as to require reduction of depreciation
allowances claimed.
1 Bankruptcy .Act
-

of July 1, 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544, as amended
22,
1938, c. 575, 52 Stat. 904, and the Act of July
by the Act ofJune
1, 1940, c. 500, 54 Stat. 709, 11 U. S. C. §§ 668, 670. Section 270 is
complementary to § 268, with which originally it was enacted as part
of Chapter X of the Chandler Act. The two sections are as follows,
the italicized portion of 270 constituting the whole of the amendment
made in 1940.
"Sec. 268. Except as provided in section 270 of this Act, no income
or profit, taxable under any law of the United States or of any State
now in force or which may hereafter be-enacted, shall, in respect to the
adjustment of the indebtedness of a debtor in a proceeding under this
chapter, be deemed to have accrued to or to have been realized by a
'debtor, by a trustee provided for'in a plan under this chapter, or by a
corporation organized or made use of for effectuating a plan under this
chapter by reason of a modification in or cancelation in whole or in part
of any of the indebtedness of the debtor in a proceeding under this
chapter."
"Sec. 270. In determining the basis of property for any purposes
of any law of the United States or of a State imposing a tax upon
income, the basis of the debtor's property (other than money) or of
such property (other than money) as is transferred to any person
required to use the debtor's basis in whole or in part shall be decreased
by an amount equal to the amount by which the indebtedness of the
debtor, not including accrued interest unpaid and not resulting in a
tax benefit on any income tax return, has been canceled or reduced in
a proceeding under this chapter, but the basis of any particularprop.erty shall not be decreased to an amount less than the fair market
value of such property as of the date of entry, of the order confirming
the plan. Any determinationof value in a proceeding under this chapter shall not be deemed a determination of fair market value for the
purposes of this section. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with

CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMM'R.
141

143

Opinion of the Court.

The transactions arose in connection with a reorganization proceeding under § 77B, 48 Stat. 912. They consisted
essentially of petitioner's acquisition of all the assets of
the insolvent debtor corporation, by an exchange of its
capital stock without par. value for the latter's bonds then
outstanding. The Commissioner contends that the exchange resulted in a cancellation or reduction of indebtedness within the meaning of § 270, so as to require a corresponding reduction in the basis of the property transferred. Accordingly he now urges that the assessment
should be made, as the section requires, upon the basis of
the fair market value of the property.' The taxpayer's
claim is made on the higher basis of the debtor corporation, in the view that § 270 is not applicable to such a
transaction.
This difference has been the basic one between the
parties in proceedings before .the Tax Court,' the Circuit
Court of Appeals and here. Others include a similar question with respect to the extinction of the debtor's liability
for the accrued unpaid interest on the bonds and whether
§ 270 is made applicable retroactively to the years prior
to 1938, by virtue of the provisions of § 276c (3) of the
Chandler Act.4
the approval of the Secretiry of the Treasury, shall prescribe such
regulations a$ he may deem necessary in order to reflect such decrease
in basis for Federal income-tax purposes and otherwise carry into effect
the2 Cf.
purposes
this section." (Emphasis added.)
note 1of"supra.
Originally the Commissioner contended
that
the taxpayer's basis for depreciation was the market value of the
.property on acquisition in 1935 and this was a major issue before
the Tax Court, cf. 1 T. C. 163. But the Tax Court held petitioner
had acquired the assets in connection with a reorganization as comprehended by'§ 112 (g) of the Revenue Act of 1934, and that therefore its basis was the, adjusted basis in the hands of the debtor corporation. This ruling Was not contested on appeal and is not in
question here.
2
Cf. note 2 supra.
4 The section is set forth in Part. III of the opinion.

144

OCTOBER TERM; 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U.S.

The Tax Court decided the principal issue on the merits
in favor of the taxpayer, except with respect to the accrued
interest. Cf. also Capento Securities Corp. v. Commissioner, 47 B. T. A. 691, affirmed, 140 F. 2d 382. it likewise limited the application of § 270 to the year 1938 and
succeeding years. 1 T. C. 163. The Court of Appeals
reversed the Tax Court's decision in both respects, holding
there was a cancellation of indebtedness with respect to
the unpaid principal 'and that § 270 was applicable retroactively to require the prescribed reduction in basis for
each of the tax years in question. 138 F. 2d 962.- Certiorari was granted, 321 U. S. 759, because of the 'importance of the questions presented and a conflict on the
question of retroactivity. 6 The facts are stated shortly'in
the margin, to give concrete perspective.!
5Consequently it made no ruling with reference to the' accrued
interest, since the amount of the principal held to have been "'cancelled" was more than sufficient to bring the basis down to the fair
market value in 1935.
6 Cf. Commissioner v. Commodore, 135 F. 2d 89 (C. C. A. 6th),
holding that § 276c (3) does not make §§ 268 and. 270 retroactively
applicable to tax years prior to 1938. The importance of the questions for the future has been minimized by repeal of § 270 by § i21 of
the Revenue Act of 1943, c. 63, 58 Stat. 21, 41.
T The property consists of an apartment building, with furnishings,
in Chicago. It was constructed in 1924 by the Claridge Building
Corporation at a cost in excess of $385,000. The corporation at that
time issued its 61/2 per Pent first mortgage bonds for $340,000. By
October 1, 1931, the bonds outstanding amounted to $277,000. In
consequence of defaults, on that date the trustee filed his bill of
foreclosure, took possession of the property, and thereafter collected
the rents. A decree for foreclosure was entered the following February, but there was no sale and the foreclosure proceeding was never
consummated.
On June 16, 1934, the Building Corporation filed its voluntary petition under § 77B. In November of that year a plai of reorganization
was agreed upon, which was confirmed and approved May 14, 1935.
Pursuant to this the taxpayer corporation was organized and the
property was transferred to it. Ninety per cent of its shares were

CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMM'R.
141

145

Opinion of the Court.

I.
Petitioner earnestly argues that the Tax Court's decision,
so far as this was in its favor, should be affirmed on the
authority of Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U. S. 489,
though in other respects it seeks a reversal of that court's
judgment.8 For reasons presently to be stated, we think
the case must be disposed of in its entirety by the application of § 276c (3), which determines the extent to which
§§ 268 and 270 are applicable in point of time. Accordingly, we are not required to pass upon the merits of the
other interesting issues or whether they fall within the
Dobson admonition. On the other hand, the question of
the applicability of §§ 268 and 270, under the terms of
§ 276c (3), to the transactions involved in this case obviously is one of law and of a sort not requiring the specialized experience of the Tax Court to determine. Furthermore, it involves making an accommodation between the
conflicting policies, in part, of the bankruptcy laws and
the revenue enactments. Sections 268 and 270 are integral parts of the former, though related in subject matter
to the latter, and were so placed for purposes relevant
primarily to that legislation. For these reasons the issue
falls beyond the scope of the Dobson case.
issued to trustees for depositing bondholders and to" nondepositing
bondholders, on the basis of one share of stock for each $100 face
amount of bonds; and ten per cent of the stock was issued to the
shareholders in the old corporation. The final decree in the § 77B
proceeding was entered March 1, 1937.
According to findings of the Tax Court, the fair market value of the
building, as of May 14, 1935 (when the plan was confirmed, cf. § 270;
note 1 supra), was not in excess of $141,000. The adjusted basis of
the taxpayer's predecessor in that year was $239,377.33, at which time
the building had a remaining useful life of twenty-five years. The
fair market value of petitioner's stock did not exceed $45 per share in
1935. The Tax Court also found that the Claridge Building Corporation was insolvent throughout the reorganization proceedings.
8
Cf. text infra at note 37.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

146

Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

II.
The question presented by § 2 76c (3) must be determined in the light of the problem created by § § 268 and
270. A statement of their history is necessary to a general
understanding of that problem. It stems basically from
United States v. Kirby Lumber Co., 284 U. S. 1, and subsequent decisions which have applied the principle of that
case. 9 By them a corporation may realize income from
the cancellation or reduction of indebtedness, depending
upon the circumstances in which the transaction occurs.
However, the line between income-producing reductions
and others is not precise or definite and great uncertainty
prevailed concerning it, both in 1934 when § 77B was enacted and in 1938 when Chapter X of the Chandler Act was
adopted. The uncertainty was greatest perhaps in relation to transactions occurring in the course of insolvent
reorganizations. 10
Some of the obscurity has been created by the very legislation enacted to remove it. This has been true of the
successive "reorganization" provisions, including those for
"nonrecognition" and for transfer of "basis," which have
appeared in the various revenue acts from -1918 (cf. 40
Stat. 1057) forward. Closely related, as these have been,
to the problem whether income is realized by the cancellation or reduction of indebtedness in connection with a
reorganization, they have tended to obscure if not to blot
9 Cf., e. g., Helvering v. American Dental Co., 318 U. S. 322; Kraman Dev. Co., 3 T. C. 342; Paul, Debt and Basis Reduction under
the Chandler Act (1940) 15 Tulane L. Rev. 1, 5, and authorities cited
in notes 17, 19.
10

Cf. Paul, op. cit. supra, note 9; Darrell, Discharge of Indebted--

ness and the Federal Income Tax (1940).53 Harv. L. Rev. 977;

Darrell, Creditors' Reorganizations and the Federal Income Tax
(1944) 57 Harv. L. Rev. 1009; Banks, Treatise on Bankruptcy for
Accountants (1939) 80-92.

CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMM'R.
141

147

Opinion of the Court.

out that problem altogether in situations covered by their
terms.1
By and large the provisions are the product of and have
reflected efforts at compromise, none too successful, between the conflicting pulls of policy involved in the revenue acts and in the bankruptcy legislation. They were
drawn and enacted however as parts of the revenue laws
and have reflected increasingly the policy of that legislation. 2 Accordingly, the succession of statutes relating to
this field, prior to §§ 268 and 270, represents a series of
shifts in the legislative pendulum from initial broad tax
relief, to encourage needed reorganizations, toward narrowed exemption, in order to discourage use of reorganization for evasion. of taxes. The general purpose of the provisions, however, was to postpone the tax consequences
which otherwise might ensue upon transactions occurring
in such circumstances that immediate imposition was regarded as economically unjustifiable." This continued in
the 1934 general revision, 4 which remained in effect during
the period of this litigation.
In some respects, as compared with the preexisting
legislation, the 1934 provisions, broadened,- but in others
they restricted, the scope of application of the principles
of nonrecognition and transfer of basis. 5 Nevertheless,
"By assuming the existence of income or other taxable gain, but
providing for nonrecognition, the inquiry whether gain or profit actually has accrued is wholly avoided.
12 Cf. authorities cited note 10 supra.
'3 Cf. Paul, Studies in Federal Taxation, Third Series,
4, 5.
14§§ 112, 113 of the Revenue Act of 1934, c. 277, 48 Stat. 680, 704,
706.
15 E. g., § 112 (g) of the 1934 Act redefined what might be a reorganization under the revenue act. Thus § 112 (g) (1) (A) included
only statutory mergers or consolidations as revenue reorganizations,
but dropped the earlier parenthetical clause; § 112 (g) (.1) (B) required that the acquisition of stock or property of another corpora-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

they were applicable to all exchanges falling within their
terms, whether or not the plan was executed in connection
with a judicial proceeding. Consequently, when in June,
1934, § 77B was adopted, the 1934 revenue provisions became applicable. to reorganizations under that section, but
only if they met the tests prescribed in the revenue acts,
including such judicially interpolated matters as "continuMany 77B
ity of interest" and "business purpose." '
reorganizations did not qualify under these tests or on
substantial grounds were thought not to do so.
The consequence was seriously to clog the use of the
77B procedure. Obstacles were imposed not only by the
differences in the two statutory definitions of "reorganization," but also by ambiguities in each definition which in
themselves created considerable areas of uncertainty. 7
And underlying these remained the mystery of when income would be regarded as realized, which continued to
haunt reorganizers unsure of whether they could bring
themselves within the statutory exemptions. In short, the
necessity of squaring the reorganization .first with § 77B,
then with the different terms of the .revenue provisions,
and the uncertainties involved under each statute in doing
this, added to the puzzle of "realized income," made the
process of. creditors' reorganization under the former act
a highly dubious adventure. To an undetermined extent
tion be. in exchange solely for all or a part of the voting stock of the
acquiring corporation to qualify as a reorganization. Helvering v.
Southwest Consolidated Corp., 315 U. S. 194; cf. § 112 (b) (5);
Helvering v. Cement Investors, 316 U. S. 527.
16 Cf. Helvering v..Alabama Asphaltic Limestone Co., 315 U. S.
179; Palm Springs Holding Corp. v. Commissioner, 315 U. S. 185;
Bondholders Committee v. Commissioner, 315 U. S. 189; Helvering
v. Southwest Consolidated Corp., 315 U. S. 194; Darrell, Creditors'
Reorganizations and the Federal Income Tax (1940) 57 Harv. L. Rev.
1009, 1017-1033.
17

Ibid.

CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMM'R.
141

149

Opinion of the Court.

the effect of the revenue act's provisions was to nullify or.
make impossible of realization the objects of § 77B.
In this setting Congress adopted the Chandler Act in
1938. That statute was a general revision of the provisions for bankruptcy reorganization, including those
previously made under § 77B. One of its principal objects
was to encourage the freer use of. bankruptcy reorganization in order to avoid unnecessary or premature liquidations. By this time Congress had become aware of the
hazardous and hampering effects of the 1934 revenue
provisions upon the operation of bankruptcy reorganizations under § 77B. The objectives of the Chandler Act,
in similar situations, could not be achieved without removal of these impediments. Some provision was essential to prevent them from having the same effects upon
the working of the new legislation. Accordingly § 268 was
devised for this purpose and became a part of the Chandler
Act itself. It had no other object, and there was no other
occasion for its being, than to free Chapter X reorganizations from the tax deterrents, including tax uncertainties,
imposed by the existing revenue act provisions.
The relieving effect of § 268 was confined in three ways,
namely, (1) to transactions occurring in a Chapter X reorganization; (2) to transactions involving a modification
or a cancellation, in whole or in part, of the debtor's
indebtedness; and (3) its benefits were limited to the
debtor corporation, the trustee, if any, provided for in
the plan, and the successor or transferee corporation.
Within these limitations the section provided-that "no
income or profit, taxable under any law . . . shall . . .
be deemed to have accrued to or to have been realized
by . . ." the parties specified, and thus removed Chapter
X transactions from incidence of the uncertainties characterizing the general "reorganization" provisions. One
who followed the procedure could be assured he would

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S,

not thereby run into tax consequences which would be
worse than the economic illness requiring that cure.
I As it was originally considered by the House Committee, the Chandler Act contained no counterpart of the
present § 270. Had § 268 thus been left to stand alone,
with no accompanying provision for "basis," either there
would have been no applicable provision for "basis" or
the general "basis" provisions would have remained applicable to Chapter X reorganizations falling within their
terms, with the result that they would apply to some
Chapter X reorganizations but not to others. The latter
view apparently was generally accepted. Under it much
of the previous uncertainty would have remained, but
with its focus shifted from "realized income" to "basis."
Moreover, it was the view of Treasury officials, apparently
in the assumption of continued transfer of "basis" under
the general provisions, that the effect of § 268 would be
to provide a double deduction in some cases," unless complemented by a corresponding "basis" provision, and thus
be unfair to the revenue.
Accordingly the Treasury, and others, made various
proposals,"9 which eventuated in the adoption of § 270 in
its original form. This provided for transfer of basis, as
did the code provisions, but required that it be decreased
by the amount of the reductionof indebtedness, a measure
at variance with the terms of the code. It was from the
requirement of reduction, and the measure provided for
it, that new difficulties were derived. Although the only
occasion for making a further provision concerning basis
arose from the adoption of § 268 and although the legislative history discloses the purpose of Congress exactly
Hearings before the House Committee on the Judiciary on H. R.
8046, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 352-354; Hearingsbefore Subcommittee
of Senate Committee on the Judiciary on H. R. 8046, 75th Cong., 2d
Sess., 137-139.
'19 See House Committee Hearings, 353-354; Senate Subcommittee
Hearings, 145-146.

CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMM'R.
141

151

Opinion of the Court.

contrary to placing Chapter X reorganizations at radical
disadvantage from others, the literal effect of the original
§ 270 came near if not entirely to wiping out the whole
benefit conferred by § 268.20 Soon it was realized that
literal application of the specified new measure of reduction would require decrease of basis in many instances to
zero or even to a point below zero, because the amount of
the debt cancelled or reduced would equal or exceed the
value of the property or that assigned to-the basis transferred. Thus, any tax benefit derived from § 268, in such
cases, would be more than offset by the higher taxes resulting in later years from the absence of any depreciation
base and in case of sale of the property acquired. And in
cases where no benefit could be derived from § 268, the
effect of applying § 270 was, if not to impose a capital
levy,2 1 then to deny the new owners equal treatment, not
only with other transferees under the code provisions, but
with all other taxpayers.
Congress, in view of its original object in adopting § 268,
could not possibly have intended such consequences for
§ 270. The cure was worse than the disease. 2 The legislative history gives the clear impression that adoption of the
original § 270 was a plain blunder, the consequences of
which were not foreseen, understood or intended by those
who finally gave it the form of law.2"
H. Rep. No. 2372, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., 2-4; S. Rep. No. 1857,
76th Cong., 3d Sess., 1-5; Hearings before a special subcommittee on
bankruptcy and reorganization of the House Judiciary Committee on
H. R. 9864, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., 3, 5-11, 13-14, 16, 18-31, 54; cf.
Paul, Debt and Basis Reduction under the Chandler Act (1940) 15
Tulane L. Rev. 1, 5.
21 Cf. Darrell, Creditors' Reorganizations and the Federal Income
Tax (1940) 57 Harv. L. Rev. 1009, 1016.
22 Paul, Debt and Basis Reduction under the Chandler Act (1940)
15 Tulane L. Rev. 1, 5.
22 Hearings before the House Committee on the Judiciary on H. R.
8046, 75th Cong., 1st $ess., 352--54; Hearings before Subcommittee
20

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the"Court.

323 U. S.

Legislative relief obviously was in order and was forthcoming at the next session of Congress, in the amendment
of § 270 adding the language giving it its present form. 4
The amendment removed some, but not all of the uncertainty confronting Chapter X reorganizers. It placed
a floor to the amount of reduction required. In. no case
would basis be reduced below fair market value. But this
was only partial cure of the original infirmities. Above
the floor, debt cancellation remained the measure of reduction, thus keeping Chapter X reorganizations generally at a disadvantage with those taking place under the
code. But, what was more important, the chief hazard
remained, namely, whether § 270 was intended to operate
only where § 268 was effective to afford actual tax benefit
or, as the Government contends, regardless of whether
such relief was afforded. And in this case the hazard has
been realized in assessment.
III.
With this background we'turn to § 276c (3). By their
own terms- §§ 268 and 270 apply only to transactions
arising in connection with proceedings "under this chapter," that is, Chapter X of the Chandler Act. The instant
transactions arose in proceedings, not under Chapter X,
but under § 77B, which had been closed by final decree
of Senate Committee on the Judiciary'on H. R. 8046, 75th Cong., 2d
Sess., 137-139, '145-146; Hearings before a special subcommittee on
bankruptcy and reorganization of the House Judiciary Committee on
H. R. 9864, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., 52-59, 66-67. • A significant letter
written by Congressman Chandler shortly after the passage of the
Chandler Act was submitted at the 1940 Hearings (Hearings on H. R.
9864, at 52) and was received by the Subcommittee into the record.
For some reason it was not published in the record, although the
Chandler letter was referred to in a letter which was published (Hearings on H. R. 9864, at 56). The Chandler letter may be found in
Banks, Treatise on Bankruptcy for Accountants (1939) 84-85.
24

Cf. note 1 supra.

CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMM'R.
141

153

Opinion of the Court.

March 1, 1937. The Chandler Act became effective September 22, 1938. Accordingly §.§ 268 and 270; of their
own force, are not applicable to these transactions. If
they are so at all it is by virtue of § 276c (3), which the

Government says must be construed to extend their operation retroactively to include these facts. This petitioner disputes.
The language immediately in question is the italicized
part of subdivision (3), as follows:
"(c) the provisions of sections 77A and 77B

. . .

shall

continue in full force and effect with respect to proceedings pending . . . upon the effective date of this amenda-

tory Act, except that"(3) sections 268 and 270 of this Act shall apply to any
plan confirmed under section 77B before the effective
date of this amendatory Act and to any plan which may
be confirmed under section 77B on and after such effective

date, except that the exemption provided by section 268
of this Act may be disallowed if.it shall be made to appear
that any such plan had for one of its principal purposes
the avoidance of income ,taxes, -and except further that
where such plan has not'been confirmed on and after
such effective date, section 269 of this Act shall apply
where practicable and expedient." (Emphasis added.)
52 Stat. 905, 11 U. S. C. §676.
Three constructions have been advanced. Shortly
stated they are that §§ 268 and 270 apply to transactions
involved in 77B proceedings (1) only if the proceedings
were pending September 22, 1938; (2) only
for 1938 and
later tax years, but including transactions in proceedings
closed before September 22, 1938; (3) for all tax years
from 1934 forward as to transactions in all proceedings in
which a plan had been or should be confirmed, regardless
of whether the proceedings were 'pending or had been
closed on September 22, 1938.

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

The petitioner advances the first two views, alternatively; the Government the third. The Government interprets the italicized language as if it were wholly
disconnected from and unrelated to the preceding portions of § 276c, in other words, as an entirely independent
provision unlimited by its statutory context. Petitioner,
on the other hand, regards it as merely a part or phase of
§ 276c,2" and thus reaches the exactly contrary view of its
meaning. The statute, it says, refers in the first paragraph
of "c" to "proceedings pending" under 77B and, to quote

the brief, "exceptions (1), (2) and (3) are keyed into this
first paragraph and refer to pending proceedings also.
They merely except from the pending cases those to which
77B is not to apply. Since (c) deals only with pending
cases and not closed cases, they refer also to pending

cases."

The Government concedes there is force in this

2. Petitioner's statement of the argument does not take account
expressly of the obvious difference between what he calls "exceptions
(1) and (2)," on the one hand, and "exception (3)," on the other.
(1) and (2) are clearly true substantive exceptions to the general
mandate of "c." That is, they provide instances in which §77B shall
not continue to operate, contrary to the general provision of "c" for
its continued effectiveness in pending proceedings. Like effect however cannot be given to (3). It does not purport expressly to provide for nonoperation of 77B. Rather its force is to provide for
an extended operation of §§ 268 and 270, with reference to 77B
proceedings.
The formal difficulty however is more apparent than substantial.
Nothing in (3) is at all inconsistent with its limitation to pending
77B proceedings. And the formal. connection with "e," though awkwardly made, affords some evidence of purpose to limit the effects
of (3) to such proceedings. The same consequence, however, would
seem to be dictated, if the formal connection, as an "exception" to
"e," were disregarded and (3) were treated as a separate subsection,
like the corresponding provisions of other chapters. Cf. note 35
infra. The substantive relationship with the subject matter and purposes of the preceding provisions of the section as a whole would
remain. Cf. text infra Part III.

CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMM'R.
141

155

Opinion of the Court.

view, though it suggests, we think untenably,6 that the
question is doubtfully open. The Court of Appeals accepted the Government's view, the Tax Court the alternative or second view advanced by the taxpayer. We think
neither can be accepted and that the effect of § 276c (3)
is to confine the application of §§ 268 and 270, in 77B
proceedings, to proceediigs pending when the Chandler
Act became effective.
If §§ 268 and 270 were to be applied to all reorganizations completed under § 77B, literally they would cover all
such transactions running back to 1934, when the latter
section was enacted. As to proceedings closed when the
Chandler Act took effect, this would involve disturbance
of tax consequences already settled for five years, unless
cases are excepted where the statute of limitations had
run."7 We have no means of knowing how much resurrection of old claims or generation of new ones in respect to
settled matters this would create. Nor did the authors of
is true petitioner did not present this interpretation in the
Court of Appeals or in the Tax Court. It was advanced as a question
presented on the petition for a writ of certiorari, the matter has been
argued here, and the Government does not claim surprise. The issue
of retroactivity and proper interpretation of § 276c (3) has been a
focal point of the controversy in the Court of Appeals and in the Tax
Court. Petitioner has maintained throughout that there was no tax
deficiency for either 1938 or any prior year. Thus the issue has been
presented at all stages, although a theory to sustain petitioner's position concerning it has been advanced here which was not put forward
in prior stages of the litigation.
27 It may be noted that the terms of § 276c (3) make no provision
concerning the statute of limitations. They apply literally to all prior
77B proceedings. The Commissioner and the Treasury have not
interpreted the section to make §§ 268 and 270 apply beyond the time
when the general statute has run. But this interpretation is not
necessarily controlling, in the face of the breadth of the language
used, if it is taken as unlimited by its context. No assessment was
made in this case for 1934 because the petitioner corporation was not
organized until 1935.
26

It

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

the Chandler Act. But, from the circumstances of the
time and the very necessities which brought about adoption of § 77B, the volume must have been considerable.
To construe § 2 76c (3) to produce such consequences in
no way would further the primary objects of §§ 268 and
270, which were to encourage use of Chandler Act procedures, at the same time preventing their abuse for tax
advantage. Rather it would pervert those sections by
changing their character, to the extent of their retroactive
operation, from relief provisions to purely revenue measures of the worst type.

In adopting them Congress was

not uprooting the whole tax past of reorganized debtors
and their creditors. It was, or purported to be, giving
relief from harsh or uncertain tax consequences to persons
reorganizing presently or in the future."8
The language does not require such unlimited construction. The words are not directed expressly to past tax
years. Nor are they focused upon transactions in closed
proceedings. It is true that § 276c (3), if construed as
though it were entirely independent of the remainder of
§ 276c, does not refer explicitly to pending 77B proceedings, except in its concluding clause. Yet it is part and
parcel of that section, which in all other respects deals only
with pending and future proceedings, not with closed ones.
And the concluding clauses of (3) afford additional evidence that it was intended to apply only to plans confirmed
or to be confirmed in pending proceedings, as does also its
setting in the context of § 276 as a whole."
Cf. Part II of this opinion.
The section comprises the whole of Article XVI of Chapter X,
entitled "When Chapter Takes Effect." It is as follows:
"Sec. 276. a. This chapter shall apply to debtors by whom or against
whom petitions are filed on and after the effective date of this amendatory Act and to the creditors and stockholders thereof, whether their
rights, claims, or interests of any nature whatsoever have been acquired
or created before or after such date;
"b. a petition may be filed under this chapter in a proceeding in
bankruptcy which is pending on such date, and a petition may be filed
2

29

CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMM'R.
141

157

Opinion of the Court.

Thus § 276, in subsections a, b and c (excepting only
§ 276c (3)), deals exclusively with pending or future proceedings. Congress' concern in "a" was that Chapter X
should apply notwithstanding the substantive rights of
debtors, creditors and others had arisen before the effective date of the Act. In "b" it was that the pendency of
bankruptcy and receivership proceedings should not defeat resort to the Chandler Act's provisions; in "c" it was
with an accommodation of the provisions of § § 77A and
77B and those of the Chandler Act as to pending .proceedings. Apart from § 276c (3), therefore, the whole

-

under this chapter notwithstanding the pendency on such date of a
proceeding in which a receiver or trustee of all or any part of the
property of a debtor has been appointed or for whose appointment
application has been made in a court of the United States or of any
State;
"c. the provisions of sections 77A and 77B of chapter VIII, as
amended, of the Act entitled 'An Act to establish a uniform system of
bankruptcy throughout the United States', approved July 1, 1898,
shall continue in full force and effect with respect to proceedings pending under those sections upon the effective date of this amendatory
Act, except that"(1) if the petition in such proceedings was approved within three
months prior to the effective date of this amendatory Act, the provisions of this chapter shall apply in their entirety to such proceedings;
and
"(2) if the petition in such proceedings was approved more than
three months before the effective date of this amendatory Act, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to such proceedings to the extent
that the judge shall deem their application practicable; and
"(3) sections 268 and 270 of this Act shall apply to any plan confirmed under section 77B before the effective date of this amendatory
Act and to any plan which may be confirmed under section 77B on
and after such effective date, except that the exemption provided by
section .268 of this Act may be disallowed if it shall be made to appear
that any such plan had for one of its principal purposes the avoidance
of income taxes, and except further that where such plan has not
been confirmed on and after such effective date, section 269 of this
Act shall apply where practicable and expedient." (Emphasis added.)
52 Stat. 905, 11 U. S. C. § 676.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.,

problem treated in § 276 was to give the Chandler Act as
wide room as possible for future operation, notwithstanding the previous vesting of substantive rights or institution of bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings. Congress was concerned with the Act's future operation, as a
remedial provision, not as a method of creating new and
retroactive substantive rights and liabilities.
This being true, it is difficult to understand why Congress might wish to follow exactly the opposite policy with
reference to newly created substantive tax rights and
liabilities. It would seem wholly incongruous to imply
such a purpose in the absence of language unquestionably
requiring it, both as a matter of general legislative policy
and, more especially, as one of accommodation with the
purposes of the particular legislation. In short, apart
from subdivision (3), relating to tax incidents of reorganization, all of § 276 was devoted entirely to matters
affecting pending and future proceedings. We can find
reason for no other view than that this was true also of
the provisions for application of the new tax features.
This is borne out by the concluding clauses of § 276c
(3) itself, which provide for exceptions to its operation.
The second exception in terms relates only to pending
proceedings. It contemplated future confirmation exclusively. The first exception, standing alone, literally
could be applied in the case of a closed proceeding. But
reaching such cases was not a necessary reason for including it. Such a reason existed, however, in the necessity for covering plans already confirmed in pending
proceedings, unless parties then reorganizing under § 77B
were to be treated differently from others reorganizing at
the same time under Chapter X. The two exceptions thus
dovetailed to provide complete coverage for disallowing
the exemption given by § 268 in pending proceedings.
They comprehended distinct situations and provided dif-

CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMM'R.
141

159

Opinion of the Court.

ferent sanctions,"0 all however consistent with application
only in pending proceedings. Thus the entire language
of § 276c (3) was capable of full and complete application, although confined to pending proceedings. To
give it greater scope, retroactively, is required neither by
the terms nor by the purposes of the specific provision
or others related to it in context or by reference.
That the narrower application was the intended one
seems most apparent when the nature of the problem with
which § 276c (3) sought to deal is considered. There was
no problem, arising from enactment of the Chandler Act,
with reference to closed 77B proceedings. And there was
no reason originally, when § 268 stood alone, for giving the
relief it afforded to taxpayers involved in such proceedings.
Nothing in the legislative history of § 268, or of § 270,
shows any concern, intent or occasion for dealing with
such taxpayers. The whole desire related rather, as has
been shown, to taxpayers who might be adversely affected
by the general revenue provisions in taking advantage
of the Chandler Act.
However, that Act itself created another problem,
namely, how far its terms should apply in pending 77B
proceedings. Congress decided that the Chandler procedure should be followed as far as possible, though not
to the extent of displacing the 77B procedure in reorganiThe same policy was framed for
zations far advanced.'
other chapters. Consequently §§ 276c (1) and (2) were
30 .e., refusal of confirmation where the plan had not been approved (cf. § 269) and disallowance of the tax exemption, if the plan
had been confirmed.. For tax purposes these come to the same result, a fact also indicative that both exceptions were intended to
operate within the general limitation of pending proceedings.
s' S. Rep. No. 1916, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., 39; Hearings before the
House Committee on the Judiciary on H. R. 8046, 75th Cong., 1st
Sess., 375-376, 383; Hearings before Subcommittee of the Senate
Committee on the Judiciary on H. R. 8046, 75th Cong., 2d Sess., 6-7.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

included, as were also comparable provisions in other
chapters." With them in, the problem was presented
whether the Chandler Act's tax relief provisions, including
§§ 268 and 270, should apply also in the pending 77B
proceedings and, if so, to what extent-only to those converted into Chandler Act proceedings by § 276c (1), or also
to those partially converted under § 276c (2) by an exercise of judicial discretion and those falling within 276c (2)
but so nearly completed or otherwise situated that application of the Chandler Act in any respect would be impracticable and therefore 77B would continue exclusively
effective.
Although these pending 77B proceedings, and particularly those nearing completion, having been already begun, were generally without the scope of the encouragement §§ 268 and 270 were intended to give to persons
contemplating reorganization, Congress undoubtedly felt
it would be unfair to give the relief to taxpayers following
the Chandler Act procedure, but deny it to persons following that of 77B at the same time. To make this discrimination might force conversion of pending 77B proceedings
into Chapter X proceedings, solely on account of tax consequences, where but for them such conversion would not
be proper or desirable. Accordingly, by § 276c (3) Congress extended the tax relief provided by §§ 268 and 270
also to pending 77B proceedings in order to put persons
continuing 77B reorganization on the same basis with
others proceeding under Chapter X. There was no other
occasion or object for the extension.
In view of these considerations, both of context and of
consequence, we do not think § 276c (3) can be regarded as
applicable to closed proceedings. The purpose rather, as
in the other provisions of § 276, was to look to the future
and in doing so to make the necessary adjustment, so far
as was possible, between the provisions of the Chandler
82

Cf. note 34 and text infra.

CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMM'R.
141

161

Opinion of the Court.

Act and preexisting laws as to proceedings pending when
the former took effect. Thus construed, § 276c (3) be-

comes consistent, both in form and in the purpose and
effects of applying the new tax provisions, with the other
provisions of § 276 and with the general policy of the
Chandler Act as to applicability of its terms." Any other
view would make § 2 76c (3) a unique provision in the
statute's setting and one inconsistent with, if not also
contradictory to, the Act's general purposes and the lim-

ited objects of the particular provisions immediately in
issue.
Further support for this view would seem to be afforded,
when the consequences of applying it or the contrary one
to similar provisions appearing in other chapters of the
Chandler Act 8" are taken into account. If those pro33 "Except as otherwise provided in this amendatory Act, the provisions of this amendatory Act shall govern proceedings so far as
practicable in cases pending when it takes effect; but proceedings in
cases then pending to which the provisions of this amendatory Act
are not applicable shall be disposed of conformably to the provisions
of said Act approved July 1,1898, and the Acts amendatory thereof
and supplementary thereto." Act of June 22, 1938, c. 575, § 6b,
52 Stat. 940.
34Chapters XI, XII and XIII deal respectively with Arrangements,
Real Property Arrangements. by Persons Other Than Corporations,
and Wage Earners' Plans. Each of these chapters embodies sections
corresponding in principle to §§ 268, 270 and 276. Those comparable
to § 276 are § 399 in Chapter XI, § 526 in Chapter XII, and § 686
in Chapter XIII. Each, like § 276, contains the whole of an article
entitled "When Chapter Takes Effect." Each contains four subsections (with a fifth in § 686), corresponding to subsections a, b and c of
§ 276 and subdivision c (3) of that section. Thus, §§ 399 (4), 526
(4), and 686 (4) correspond to subdivision 276c (3). They differ
from it however in that they are formally independent subsections,
whereas'§ 276c (3) is formally a part of Subsection 276c, dependent
upon its general mandate, and thus perhaps even more clearly limited
by the preceding provisions. Cf. note 25 supra.
Sections 268, 270 and 276, therefore, do not represent isolated instances of legislation peculiar to corporate reorganizations under

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

visions are to be given retroactive application comparable
to what the Government says should be given to §§ 268,
270 and 276c (3), the disruption of settled tax situations,
by virtue of the Chandler Act's adoption, may be multiplied many times over what would follow from giving
such an effect only to §§ 268, 270 and 276c (3). Although
the immediate consequences of decision in this case are
limited to the specific effects of these sections, it is at least
doubtful that they could be given a different construction,
as to retroactive application, from what might be given
to the comparable sections of other chapters. The possibility that uniform interpretation may be required gives
pause, at least, before adopting a view in this case which,
if extended to the other provisions, would open so wide a
door for retroactive taxation.
As against this interpretation, the Government's argument rests primarily on two bases: (1) that the words of
§ 276c (3) require its construction; and (2) that unless
this is given, discriminations as to tax consequences will
be created between taxpayers involved in closed proceedings and those in pending and future ones, with the result
that mere speed in getting the proceedings pending prior
to September 22, 1938, to a final decree would determine
whether taxpayers equally deserving would be afforded
the relief provided by §§ 268 and 270.
The answers are obvious. In the first place, the wording of § 276c (3) does not require the Government's conChapter X. They are rather particular instances of a general pattern
of legislation, relating to a common problem running through Chapters
X, XI, XII and XIII, namely, to what extent the Chandler Act's
terms should be applied to pending reorganizations, arrangements,
Wage earners' plans, etc. Because of detailed differences in the situations affected, the provisions corresponding to §§ 268, 270 and 276
vary somewhat in detail. But the similarities rather than the variations, whether in situation or in terms, are- significant for present
purposes.

CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMM'R.
141

163

Opinion of the Court.

struction. That view can be taken only if subdivision (3)
is torn, formally and substantively, from its context in the
statute and the problems with which these surrounding
provisions, including §§ 268 and 270, undertook to deal.
Thus to treat the provision not only would disregard the
purposes of all these related provisions. It would convert
subdivision (3), in its practical application, into an entirely independent tax measure, solely in the nature of an
amendment to the general revenue legislation, and with
the harshest retroactive tax consequences. This in fact
seems to be the Government's view of the character of
the legislation. 5 But that view wholly disregards the fact
that neither §§ 268 and 270 nor § 276c (3) had any purpose originally or later merely to produce larger revenues
or to operate exclusively as revenue measures. It is true
they modified the preexisting revenue provisions, so far
as they were applicable by their terms to do so. But this
was a function of their primary object, which was to give
relief to parties undertaking reorganization, not simply
to impose new and different taxes upon them, much less
to do so with respect to transactions long since settled
15 Thus, in its brief the Government asserts, concerning petitioner's
argument that §§ 268 and 270 apply only to "pending" proceedings:
"This contention, although plausible, neglects the fact that Sections
268 and 270 are essentially tax provisions." (Emphasis added.)

To

this it may be answered that the sections, in origin, purpose and function were "essentially reorganization provisions" or, to put it differently, "essentially tax relief provisions." The Government's emphasis upon the sections as taxing measures ignores their primary object
and function, which were to provide tax relief for parties undertaking
reorganization and to prevent the clogging effects of the existing tax
laws upon the operation of the Chandler Act. It also fails to note
that retroactive application, in closed proceedings, could have no possible relation to the latter aim. The matter is one of emphasis. But
it is not permissible, in construing provisions designed to encourage
reorganization, by giving relief from taxes, to take them by such an
emphasis as if they were framed exclusively for raising revenue.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

both as to taxes and as to reorganization. The objects of
§276c (3) cannot be ignored or distorted by thus stripping
the provision, formally and substantively, from its statutory setting and the limitations this clearly imposes.
So far as respects the Government's concern over the
possible discriminations which will be created between
taxpayers by acceptance of petitioner's view, it is perhaps enough to say that some such discrimination is inevitable with whatever solution may be accepted; and we
think what follows from applying §§ 268 and 270 only
to "pending proceedings" not only is preferable to any
other but is most consistent with the normal course of
legislation. Retroactivity, even where permissible, is not
favored, except upon the clearest mandate. It is the normal and usual function of legislation to discriminate between closed transactions and future ones or others pending but not completed. The discrimination which the
Government fears will follow from acceptance of the taxpayer's view admittedly will result. But it is one consistent with the normal consequences of legislation in the
drawing of a line between the past or the present and the
future. It also was one necessary for Congress to make
if it were not to make another or others equally bad or
worse. The Government's concern in this case is not that
the taxpayer will suffer harsher discrimination under petitioner's construction than under its own. It is rather that
he will not suffer it. For, as interpreted by the Government, 6 §§ 268, 270 and 276c (3) applied in conjunction
would be much more likely to produce new, and retroactive, tax burdens than tax benefits. The present case is
an illustration. To this the Government might be entitled
if the statutory mandate were clear. It cannot have that
31That is, with § 270 as operating independently of § 268, to require
reduction in basis even though no actual tax benefit has been derived
under 268.

CLARIDGE APARTMENTS CO. v. COMM'R.
141

165

Opinion of the Court.

advantage by dubious construction which ignores so much
of the statute's setting, purpose and history. The letter
does not require this. The consequences forbid it.
There remains for consideration the refusal of the Court
of Appeals to reverse the findings of the Tax Court as to
the original cost of the apartment building and the propriety of deductions claimed in 1937 for decorating expenses. 7 The Tax Court, in arriving at the cost of the
building, refused to allow an alleged ten per cent contractor's commission paid to the debtor company's principal promoter and original sole shareholder because it
was not convinced by petitioner's witness "that any
amount was actually paid by the old company for con"
1 T. C. 163, 175. The Tax Court
tractor's services ...
also concluded, after hearing vague testimony on two
small deductions in 1937 for decorating and repairs, that
these were not properly taken, because the same deductions for the same purposes had been claimed and allowed
in 1936. These issues were well within the principle of
the Dobson case. The Tax Court was upheld in these
respects by the Court of Appeals and we accept these
findings.
Accordingly, the judgments are reversed and the causes
are remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

3T

Cf. text at note 8 supra.

