BARBER v. BARBER.
72

Syllabus.

statement in the Coronado case that the suability of a
trade union is a procedural matter.
But if such a procedural matter may be cast in the form
of a substantive issue for the determination of status, it
would, in this case in any event, be a question of the substantive law of the District and not raise any substantive issue of federal law. If a suit like this were
brought in the District Court for the Southern District
of New York under diversity jurisdiction, no conceivable
question other than that of the procedural or substantive
law of the State of New York could arise. No federal
question is infused into the litigation because such a local
suit was brought in the District of Columbia.
In view of the increase in the volume and the complexity of the business that is coming to this Court, and the
bearing of this increase upon the proper discharge of its
work (see Ex parte Peru, 318 U. S. 578, 602-604), I deem
it important to avoid any encouragement however slight
to futile resort to this Court.

BARBER v. BARBER.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 51.

Argued November .9, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.

1. Upon review here of a judgment of a court of one State refusing
to give full faith and credit to a judgment of a court of another,
the sufficiency of the grounds of refusal is for this Court to determine. P. 81.
2. Upon review here of a decision of a court of one State involving
the law of another, a federal right being asserted, it is the duty of
this Court to determine for itself the law of such other State. P. 81.
3. A duly authenticated judgment of a court of general jurisdiction of
another State is prima facie evidence of the jurisdiction of the court
to render it and of the right which it purports to adjudicate. P. 86.
4. A money judgment of a court of North Carolina for arrears of
alimony, not by its terms conditional and on which execution was
directed to issue, held, under the law of that State, not subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

M.odification or recall; and, under the Federal Constitution and the
Act of May 26, 1790, as amended, entitled to full faith and credit.
P. 86.
180 Tenn. 353, 175 S. W. 2d 324, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

322 U. S. 719, to review the reversal of a

decree in a suit to enforce a judgment of a court of another
State for arrears of alimony.
Mr. C. W. K. Meacham, with whom Mr. J. Y. Jordan,
Jr. was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. Clifford Curry submitted for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question for decision is whether the Supreme Court
of Tennessee, in a suit brought upon a North Carolina
judgment for arrears of alimony, rightly denied full faith
and credit to the judgment, on the ground that it lacks
finality because, by the law of North Carolina, it is subject
to modification or recall by the court which entered it.
In 1920 petitioner secured in the Superior Court of
North Carolina for Buncombe County, a court of general
jurisdiction, a judgment of separation from respondent,
her husband. The judgment directed payment to petitioner of $200 per month alimony, later reduced to $160
per month. In 1932 respondent stopped paying the prescribed alimony. In 1940, on petitioner's motion in the
separation suit for a judgment for the amount of the alimony accrued and unpaid under the earlier order, the
Superior Court of North Carolina gave judgment in her
favor. It adjudged that respondent was indebted to petitioner in the sum of $19,707.20, under its former order,
that petitioner have and recover of respondent that
amount, and "that execution issue therefor."
Petitioner then brought the present suit in the Tennessee Chancery Court to recover on the judgment thus ob-

BARBER v. BARBER.
77

Opinion of the Court.

tained. Respondent, by his answer, put in issue the finality, under North Carolina law, of the judgment sued upon,
and the cause was submitted for decision on the pleadings
and a stipulation that the court might consider as duly
proved the records in two prior appeals in the North Carolina separation proceeding "upon the authority of which
the judgment sued dpon in the present case is predicated,"
and that the opinions of the Supreme Court of North
Carolina upon these appeals, Barber v. Barber, 216 N. C.
232, 4 S. E. 2d 447; 217 N. C. 422, 8 S. E. 2d 204, should
be "admissible in evidence to prove or tend to prove the
North Carolina law."
The Tennessee Chancery Court held the judgment sued
upon to be entitled to full faith and credit, and gave judgment for petitioner accondingly. The Supreme Court of
Tennessee reversed on the ground that the judgment was
without the finality entitling it to credit under the full
faith and credit clause of the Constitution, Art. IV, § 1.
180 Tenn. 353, 175 S. W. 2d 324. We granted certiorari
because of an asserted conflict with Sistare v. Sistare, 218
U. S. 1, and because of the importance of the issue raised.
322 U. S. 719.
The constitutional command is that "Full Faith and
Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts,
Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State."
Article IV, § 1 of the Constitution also provides that "Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which
such Acts, Records and Proceedings shall be proved, and
the Effect thereof." And Congress has enacted that judgments "shall have such faith and credit given to them in
every court within the United States as they have by law
or usage in the courts of the State from which they are
taken." Act of May 26, 1790, c. 11, 1 Stat. 122, as amended,
28 U. S. C. § 687.
In Sistare v. Sistare,supra, 16-17, this Court considered
whether a decree for future alimony, brought to a sister

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

state, was entitled to full faith and credit as to installments
which had accrued, but which had not been reduced to a
further judgment. The Court held that a decree for future alimony is, under the Constitution and the statute,
entitled to credit as to past due installments, if the right
to them is "absolute and vested," even though the decree
might be modified prospectively by future orders of the
court. See also Barber v. Barber, 21 How. 582. The Sistare case also decided that such a decree was not final, and
therefore not entitled to credit, if the past due installments
were subject retroactively to modification or recall by the
court after their accrual. See also Lynde v. Lynde, 181
U. S. 183, 187.
The Sistare case considered the applicability of the full
faith and credit clause, only as to decrees for future alimony some of the installments of which had accrued. The
present suit was not brought upon a decree of that nature,
but upon a money judgment for alimony already due and
owing to the petitioner, as to which execution was ordered
to issue. The Supreme Court of Tennessee applied to this
money judgment the distinction taken in the Sistare case
as to decrees for future alimony. It concluded that by the
law of North Carolina the judgment for the specific amount
of alimony already accrued, was subject to modification
by the court which awarded it, that it was not a final judgment under the rule of the Sistare case, and therefore was
not entitled to full faith and credit.
As we are of opinion that the Tennessee Supreme Court
erroneously construed the law of North Carolina as to the
finality of the judgment sued upon here, it is unnecessary
to consider whether the rule of the Sistare case as to decrees for future alimony is also applicable to judgments
subsequently entered for arrears of alimony. Compare
Lynde v. Lynde, supra, 187, where this Court distinguished
between a decree for arrears of alimony and one for future alimony, some of the installments of which had ac-

BARBER v. BARBER.
77

Opinion of the Court.

crued. See also Audubon v. Shufeldt, 181 U. S. 575, 577578.' For the same reason, it is unnecessary to consider
whether a decree or judgment for alimony already accrued, which is subject to modification or recall in the
forum which granted it, but is not yet so modified, is
entitled to full faith and credit until such time as it is
modified. Cf. Levine v. Levine, 95 Ore. 94, 109-113, 187
P. 609; Hunt v. Monroe, 32 Utah 428, 440, 91 P. 269; and
compare Milwaukee County v. White Co., 296 U. S. 268,

275-276, and cases cited.
We assume for present purposes that petitioner's judgment for accrued alimony is not entitled to full faith and
credit, if by the law of North Carolina it is subject to
modification. The refusal of the Tennessee Supreme
Court to give credit to that judgment because of its nature
is a ruling upon a federal right, and the sufficiency of the
grounds of denial is for this Court to decide. Magnolia
Petroleum Co. v. Hunt, 320 U. S. 430, 443, and cases
cited. And in determining the applicable law of North
Carolina, this Court reexamines the issue with deference
to the opinion of the Tennessee court, although we cannot
accept its view of the law of North Carolina as conclusive.
This is not a case where a question of local law is peculiarly within the cognizance of the local courts in which
the case arose. The determination of North Carolina law
can be made by this Court as readily as by the Tennessee
courts, and since a federal right is asserted, it is the duty
of this Court, upon an independent investigation, to determine for itself the law of North Carolina. See Adam v.
Saenger,303 U. S. 59, 64, and cases cited.
We are thus brought to the question whether, by the
law of North Carolina, the judgment which petitioner has
secured in that state for arrears of alimony is so wanting
in finality as not to be within the command of the Constitution and the Act of Congress. Our examination of
the North Carolina law on this subject must be in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

light of the admonition of Sistare v. Sistare, supra, 22,
that "every reasonable implication must be resorted to
against the existence of" a power to modify or revoke
installments of alimony already accrued "in the absence
of clear language manifesting an intention to confer it."
The admonition is none the less to be heeded when the
debt has been reduced to a judgment upon which execution has been directed to issue.
Section 1667 of the North Carolina Consolidated Statutes (General Stats. of 1943, Michie, § 50-16), under which
petitioner brought her suit for separation and alimony,
provides that "If any husband shall separate himself from
his wife and fail to provide her and the children of the
marriage with . . . necessary subsistence," she may maintain an action in the Superior Court to have a "reasonable
subsistence" allotted and paid to her. It declares that
"the order of allowance . . . may be modified or vacated
at any time, on the application of either party or of any
one interested."
This statute by its terms makes provision only for the
modification of the "order of allowance," not of a judgment rendered for the amount of the unpaid allowances
which have accrued under such an order. Nor does it
state that the order of allowance may be modified retroactively as to allowances already accrued. The original
North Carolina judgment ordering the payment of subsistence installments of alimony is not in the record, and we
are not advised of its terms. Respondent places his reliance not on them, but upon the North Carolina law,
apart from the terms of the decree, as providing for modification of such a judgment. But we are aware of no
statute or decision of any court of North Carolina and
none has been cited, to the effect that an unconditional
judgment of that state for accrued allowances of alimony
may be modified or recalled after its rendition. Indeed,
we find no pronouncement of any North Carolina court

BARBER v. BARBER.
77

Opinion. of the Court.

that before such a judgment is rendered, an order for future
allowances may be modified or set aside with respect to
allowances which have accrued and are due and owing.
The Supreme Court of Tennessee found no support in
North Carolina statutes or judicial decisions for its conclusion that the North Carolina judgment for arrears of
alimony is subject to such modification, other than a single
paragraph of the opinion of the Supreme Court of North
Carolina at an, early stage of the suit which resulted in
the judgment upon which suit was here brought.1 But
these remarks, as their context shows, appear to be addressed, not to the power of the court to modify or set
aside a judgment for arrears of alimony, but to the authority conferred by N. C. Con. Stat. § 1667 upon
the court in the suit for alimony to modify its previous
order for the allowance of subsistence.
1 The language quoted from Barberv. Barber,217 N. C. 422, 427-28,
is as follows:
"It is not a final judgment in the action, since both the plaintiff
and the defendant may apply for other orders and for modifications
of orders already made, which the court will allow as the ends of
justice require, according to the changed conditions of the parties.
The orders made from time to time are, of course, res judicata, between the parties, subject to this power of the court to modify them.
The consolidation of the amounts due, when ascertained in one order
or decree, does not invest any of these orders with any other character than that which they originally had. If the defendant is in court
only by reason of the original service of summons, he is in court only
for such orders as, upon motion, are appropriate and customary in
the proceeding thus instituted. There is no reason why a judgment
should not be rendered on an allowance for alimony, which is a debtand more than an ordinary one. The court below, in its sound discretion, which is not ordinarily reviewable by this Court, under the
motion of plaintiff in this cause can hear the facts, change of conditions
of the parties, the present needs of support of any of the children
and, in its sound discretion, render judgment for what defendant owes under the former judgment and failed to pay and see to it
that such judgment is given to protect plaintiff, and 'give diligence
to make her (your) calling and election sure.'

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

Consistently with Sistare v. Sistare, supra, the passage
points out that such an order is not final in the proceeding
in which it is entered, but is subject to modification by
further orders of, the court. In this respect the North
Carolina court was but following its own pronouncement
in the first appeal in the separation proceeding, Barber v.
Barber, supra, 216 N. C. 232, 234, and in numerous other
decisions of that court. See Crews v. Crews, 175 N. C.
168, 173, 95 S. E. 149; Anderson v. Anderson, 183 N. C.
139, 142, 110 S. E. 863; Tiedemann v. Tiedemann, 204
N. C. 682, 683, 169 S. E. 422; Wright v. Wright, 216 N. C.
693, 696, 6 S. E. 2d 555. But it is quite another matter
to say that past due installments may be modified, or
that a judgment, not by its terms conditional and on which
execution may issue, is subject to modification because
the obligation for accrued alimony could have been modified or set aside before its merger in the judgment. And
in fact the North Carolina Supreme Court has been at
pains to indicate that such is not the case.
In considering whether the decree of another state for
future alimony is entitled to full faith and credit, the
North Carolina court recognizes that such faith and credit
is required as to past due installments when it does not
appear that they may be modified or revoked. And it interprets general provisions for modification of a decree
directing future allowances of alimony as inapplicable to
allowances which have become due and owing. Since its
decision in Barberv. Barber,in the 217th N. C., it has held
in Lockman v. Lockman, 220 N. C. 95, that such a decree
in Florida is entitled to credit in North Carolina with.
respect to arrears in alimony. The court said, at page
103:
"The rule in North Carolina is that a judgment awarding alimony is a judgment directing the payment of money
by the defendant, and by such judgment the defendant
becomes indebted to the plaintiff for such alimony as it
falls due, and when the defendant is in arrears in the pay-

BARBER v. BARBER.
77

Opinion of the Court.

ment of alimony, the Court may judicially determine the
amount due and enter decree accordingly. It has no less
dignity than any other contractual obligation. Barber v.
Barber,217 N. C. 422, 8 S. E. (2d) 204. In Duss v. Duss,
92 Fla. 1081, the obligation of the divorced husband to pay
alimony was stated in language of similar import."
The Supreme Court of. North Carolina thus has assimilated the law of North Carolina to that of Florida, under
which it had just held that past due installments of alimony were not subject to modification. In this state of
the law of North Carolina, we cannot say that past due
installments under a decree for future alimony can be
revoked or modified.
Still less can we say that a judgment for such installments can be so modified. The North Carolina Supreme
Court said in the Barber case, 217 N. C. 422, 428: "There is
no reason why a judgment should not be rendered on an
allowance for alimony, which is a debt-and more than
an ordinary one." And elsewhere in its opinion it said
(page 427):
"A judgment awarding alimony is a judgment directing
the payment of money by a defendant to plaintiff and, by
such judgment, the defendant thereupon becomes indebted to the plaintiff for such alimony as it becomes due,
and when the defendant is in arrears in the payment of
alimony the court may, on application of plaintiff, judicially determine the amount then due and enter its decree
accordingly. The defendant, being a party to the action
and having been given due notice of the motion, is bound
by such decree, and the plaintiff is entitled to all the remedies provided by law for the enforcement thereof."
We do not find in the language on which the Tennessee
court relied any clear or unequivocal indication that the
judgment for arrears of alimony, on which execution was
directed to issue, was itself subject to modification or recall. True, as the opinion of the North Carolina court
states, the judgment for arrears of alimony was not a final

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON, J.,

concurring.

323 U. S.

judgment in the separation suit. As to future alimony
payments not merged in the money judgment, the allotments ordered are, by the terms of the statute, subject to
modification. But it would hardly be consistent with
the court's statements, that accrued alimony is a debt for
which a judgment may be rendered, that the defendant
is bound by the judgment, and that "the plaintiff is
entitled to all the remedies provided by law" for its enforcement, to say that the judgment may be modified or
set aside by virtue of a statute which in terms merely
authorizes modification of the order for payment of
allowances.
The judgment of a court of general jurisdiction of a
sister state duly authenticated is prima facie evidence of
the jurisdiction of the court to render it and of the right
which it purports to adjudicate. Adam v. Saenger, supra,
62, and cases cited. The present judgment is on its face
an unconditional adjudication of petitioner's right to recover a sum of money due and owing which, by the law
of the state, is a debt. The judgment orders that execution issue. To overcome the prima facie effect of the judgment record, it is necessary that there be some persuasive
indication that North Carolina law subjects the judgment
to the infirmity of modification or recall which is wanting
here.
Upon full consideration of the law of North Carolina
we conclude that respondent has not overcome the prima
facie validity and finality of the judgment sued upon. We
cannot say that the statutory authority to modify or recall an order providing for future allowances of installments of alimony extends to a judgment for overdue installments or that such a judgment is not entitled to full
faith and credit.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTIcE JACKSON, concurring.
I concur in the result, but I think that the judgment
of the North Carolina court was entitled to faith and

BARBER v. BARBER.
77

JACKSON, J., concurring.

credit in Tennessee even if it was not a final one. On this
assumption I do not find it necessary or relevant to
examine North Carolina law as to whether its judgment might under some hypothetical circumstances be

modified.
Neither the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution nor the Act of Congress implementing it says anything
about final judgments or, for that matter, about any
judgments. Both require that full faith and credit be
given to "judicial proceedings" without limitation as to
finality. Upon recognition of the broad meaning of that
term much may some day depend.
Whatever else this North Carolina document might be,
no one denies that it is a step in a judicial proceeding,
instituted validly under the strictest standards of due
process. On its face it is final and by its terms it awards
a money judgment in a liquidated amount, presently collectible and provides "that execution issue therefor."
Tennessee should have rendered substantially the same
judgment that it received from the courts of North Carolina. If later a decree is made in North Carolina which
modifies or amends its judgment, that modification or
amendment will also be entitled to faith and credit in
Tennessee.
Of course a judgment is entitled to faith and credit for
just what. it is, and no more. But its own terms constitute a determination by the rendering court as to what
;t is, and an enforcing court may not search the laws of
the state to see whether the judgment terms are erroneous. Of course, if a judgment by its terms reserves power
to modify or states conditions, a judgment entered upon
it could appropriately make like reservations or conditions. No such appear in this judgment unless they are
to be annexed to it by a study of the law of North Carolina. Any application for such relief should be addressed
'to the North Carolina court and not to the Tennessee

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

323 U. S.

court nor to this one. The purpose of the full faith and
credit clause is to lengthen the arm of the state court
and to eliminate state lines as a shelter from judicial
proceedings. This is defeated by entertaining a plea to
review the support in state law for the judgment as it
has been rendered, which is a delaying inquiry as has
been shown by this case.

KANN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 35. Argued November 7, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.
1. An essential element of the offense under § 215 of the Criminal
Code is that the use of the mails be for the purpose of executing
the fraudulent scheme. P. 95.
2. The fraudulent scheme alleged being one to obtain money, and
participants having obtained the money by cashing checks at
banks which thereupon became holders in due course, the subsequent mailings of the checks by the banks to the drawees were
not "for the purpose of executing such scheme," within the meaning of § 215 of the Criminal Code, and the conviction here can not
be sustained. P. 94.
140 F. 2d 380, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 321 U. S. 761, to review the affiymance of
a conviction of using the mails to defraud in violation of
§ 215 of the Criminal Code.

Mr. Simon E. Sobeloif, with whom Mr. Bernard M.

Goldstein was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William A. Paisley, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, Mr.

Robert S. Erdahl, and Miss Beatrice Rosenberg were on
the brief, for the United States.

