UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.

273

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON ET AL., DOING BUSINESS
AS UNITED STATES*DENTAL CO., ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE.

No. 43.

Argued November 8, 1944.-Decided December 18, 1944.

1. A prosecution for using the mails for sending dentures in violation
of the Federal Denture Act-which Act contains no specific provision relative to the venue of prosecutions thereunder-can not be
had in the district to which the dentures were sent but only in the
district from which they were sent. P. 277.
2. Such construction of the Federal Denture Act, though not required
by the compulsions of Article III, § 2 of the Constitution and of the
Sixth Amendment, is more consonant with the considerations of
historic experience and policy which underlie those safeguards in
the Constitution regarding the trial of crimes. P. 275.
3. Questions of venue in criminal cases are not merely matters of
formal legal procedure; they raise deep issues of public policy in
the light of which legislation must be construed. P. 276.
4. Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56, distinguished.
P. 276.
53 F. Supp. 596, affirmed.

under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment quashing an information for violation of the Federal
Denture Act.
APPEAL

Mr. W. Marvin Smith, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark were
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. H. Albert Young, with whom Mr. Alexander Jamison was on the brief, for appellees.
MR.. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This case concerns the construction of the Federal Denture Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 1087, 18 U. S. C. § 420 (f) (g)

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

(h) (Supp. 1943), which provides that "...
it shall be
unlawful, in the course of the conduct of a business of
constructing or supplying dentures from casts or impressions sent through the mails or in interstate commerce, to
use the mails or any instrumentality of interstate commerce for the purpose of sending or bringing into . . ." a
State or Territory any denture the cast of which was taken
by a person not licensed to practice dentistry in the State
into which the denture is sent. An information, filed
October 4, 1943, in the District Court for the District of
Delaware, charged that appellees put into the mails at
Chicago for delivery in Houston, Delaware, dentures in
violation of the Delaware laws pertaining to dental practice, and thereby violated the Federal Denture Act. The
information was quashed on the ground that prosecution
of appellees could only be had where the illegal dentures
were deposited. 53 F. Supp. 596. A second information, adding counts alleging transmission into and delivery in Delaware, was quashed by entry of a formal order
referring to the court's earlier opinion.' The Government
has appealed directly to this Court under the Criminal
Appeals Act. 34 Stat. 1246, as amended, 18 U. S. C.
§ 682 (Supp. 1943).
Must these appellees be tried in the Northern district
of Illinois or may they be tried in the district of any State
through which the dentures were carried including Delaware, the place of delivery? Has Congress authorized
such discretion in the enforcement of this Act? If it has,
there is an end to the matter, for Congress may constitutionally make the practices which led to the Federal Denture Act triable in any federal district through which an
offending denture is transported. Armour Packing Co. v.
1We are concerned only with this latter information, but the court's
opinion, delivered in connection with the first information, gave its
reasons for quashing both informations.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
273

Opinion of the Court.

United States, 209 U. S. 56. An accused is so triable, if a
fair reading of the Act requires it. But if the enactment
reasonably permits the trial of the sender of outlawed dentures to be confined to the district of sending, and that of
the importer to the district into which they are brought,
such construction should be placed upon the Act. Such
construction, while not required by the compulsions of
Article III, § 2 of the Constitution and of the Sixth
Amendment, is more consonant with the considerations
of historic experience and policy which underlie those
safeguards in the Constitution regarding the trial of
crimes.
Aware of the unfairness and hardship to which trial in
an environment alien to the accused exposes him, the
Framers wrote into the Constitution that "The Trial of
all Crimes . . . shall be held in the State where the said
Crimes shall have been committed . . ." Article III, § 2,

cl. 3. As though to underscore the importance of this
safeguard, it was reinforced by the provision of the Bill of
Rights requiring trial "by an impartial jury of the State
and district wherein the crime shall have been committed." Sixth Amendment. By utilizing the doctrine of
a continuing offense, Congress may, to be sure, provide
that the locality of a crime shall extend over the whole
area through which force propelled by an offender operates. Thus, an illegal use of the mails or of other instruments of commerce may subject the user to prosecution
in the district where he sent the goods, or in the district
of their arrival, or in any intervening district. Plainly
enough, such leeway not only opens the door to needless
hardship to an accused by prosecution remote from home
and from appropriate facilities for defense. It also leads
to the appearance of abuses, if not to abuses, in the selection of what may be deemed a tribunal favorable to the
prosecution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

These are matters that touch closely the fair administration of criminal justice and public confidence in it, on
which it ultimately rests. These are important factors in
any consideration of the effective enforcement of the
criminal law. They have been adverted to, from time
to time, by eminent judges; and Congress has not been
unmindful of them. Questions of venue in criminal cases,
therefore, are not merely matters of formal legal procedure. They raise deep issues of public policy in the light
of which legislation must be construed. If an enactment
of Congress equally permits the underlying spirit of the
constitutional concern for trial in the vicinage to be respected rather than to be disrespected, construction should
go in the direction of constitutional policy even though
not commanded by it.
It is significant that when Congress desires to give a
choice of trial, it does so by specific venue provisions giving jurisdiction to prosecute in any criminal court of the
United States through which a process of wrongdoing
moves. Such was the situation in Armour Packing Co.
v. United States, supra. The offense there was under the
Elkins Act for the transportation of goods at illegal freight
rates, and Congress specifically provided for prosecution
in any district "through which the transportation may
have been conducted." 32 Stat. 847, as amended, 49
U. S. C. § 41 (1).
In the Federal Denture Act Congress did not make provision for trial in any district through which the goods were
shipped. The absence of such a provision would in itself
be significant. Its significance is enhanced when it appears that the attention of Congress was directed by the
Postmaster General to the desirability of authority for a
discretionary trial either at the place of shipment or at the
place of receipt. He wrote to the Chairman of the House
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce "that
consideration should be given to the advisability of having

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
273

Opinion of the Court.

the measure provide for prosecution of violators in the
jurisdiction where the material is caused to be delivered
as well as in the jurisdiction from which it is sent." Hearings before Subcommittee of House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce on H. R. 5674, 77th Cong.,
2d Sess. (1942) p. 3. And the Committee also invited the
viewpoint of representatives of the Department of Justice
"on the language of the bill." Id. at 28. In view of the
keen awareness of enforcing officials as well as that of the
members of the Committee on Interstate Commerce of the
problems raised by venue in criminal trials, it is inadmissible to suggest either oversight on the part of Congress in
failing to make provision for choice of venue or to make
the cavalier assumption that that which is specifically
provided for in other enactments-i. e., trial in more than
one district-was authorized but through parsimony of
language left unexpressed in the Federal Denture Act.
The absence of a venue provision such as that which
Congress wrote into the Elkins Act is far more rationally
explained by due regard to the difference between the
offenses under the Elkins and the Federal Denture Acts
respectively. The venue provision under the Elkins Act
underlines the offense defined by that Act, which was not
the illegal sending or the bringing of goods but their
"transportation." That-transportation-is inescapably
a process, a continuing phenomenon. The Federal Denture Act did not make "transportation" the offense. It
proscribed the use of the mails for "the purpose of send..
ing or bringing into any State" unlawful dentures. The
Act thereby hit two types of violators-the sender and the
unlicensed dentist who brings in dentures from without.
It is a reasonable and not a strained construction to read
the statute to mean that the crime of the sender is complete
when he uses the mails in Chicago, and the crime of the
unlicensed dentist in California or Florida or Delaware,
who orders the dentures from Chicago, is committed in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

323 U. S.

State into which he brings the dentures. As a result, the
trial of the sender is restricted to Illinois and that of the unlicensed dentist to Delaware or Florida or California. The
illicit sender in Chicago cannot be hauled for trial across
the continent, and, conversely, the unlicensed dentist cannot be compelled to stand trial in Chicago.
The large policy back of the constitutional safeguards
counsels against the unrestricted construction for which
the Government contends when Congress has not commanded it; and no considerations of expediency require it.
Prosecutions of federal crimes are under the general supervision of the Attorney General of the United States;
United States Attorneys do not exercise autonomous authority. The vindication of the Federal Denture Act
therefore does not depend upon the willingness of some
local United States Attorney to prosecute on behalf of a
local victim. While it might facilitate the Government's
prosecution in a case like this to have its witnesses near the
place of trial, there must be balanced against the inconvenience of transporting the Government's witnesses to
trial at the place of the sender the serious hardship of defending prosecutions in places remote from home (including the accused's difficulties, financial and otherwise, see
R. S. § 878, 28 U. S. C. § 656, of marshalling his witnesses),
as well as the temptation to abuses, already referred to, in
the administration of criminal justice. Inasmuch as the
statute permits and does not forbid this construction, the
judgment below should be affirmed.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

concurring.

I join in the opinion of the Court and believe that the
judgment should be affirmed.
Congress has the constitutional power to fix venue at
any place where a crime occurs. Our problem here is to

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
273

MuRPHY, J., concurring.

determine, in the absence of a specific venue provision,
where the crime outlawed by the Federal Denture Act
occurred for purposes of venue.
The Act prohibits the use of the mails for the purpose
of sending or bringing into any state certain prohibited
articles. It is undisputed that when a defendant places
a prohibited article in the mails in Illinois for the purpose of sending it into Delaware he has completed a
statutory offense. Hence he is triable in Illinois. But
to hold that the statutory crime also encompasses the
receipt of the prohibited article in Delaware, justifying
a trial at that point, requires an implication that I am
unwilling to make in the absence of more explicit Congressional language.
Very often the difference between liberty and imprisonment in cases where the direct evidence offered by the
government and the defendant is evenly balanced depends
upon the presence of character witnesses. The defendant is more likely to obtain their presence in the district of his residence, which in this instance is usually the
place where the prohibited article is mailed. The inconvenience, expense and loss of time involved in transplanting these witnesses to testify in trials far removed
from their homes are often too great to warrant their use.
Moreover, they are likely to lose much of their effectiveness before a distant jury that knows nothing of their
reputations. Such factors make it difficult for me to
conclude, where Congress has not said so specifically, that
we should construe the Federal Denture Act as covering
more than the first sufficient and punishable use of the
mails insofar as the sender of a prohibited article is concerned. The principle of narrow construction of criminal
statutes does not warrant interpreting the "use" of the
mails to cover all possible uses in light of the foregoing
considerations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
REED, J., dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE REED,

323 U. S.

dissenting.

The statute under consideration condemns the "use"
of "the mails or any instrumentality of interstate commerce for the purpose of sending or bringing into any
State or Territory" any denture which has been made
without compliance with the laws of that State or Territory, relating to the furnishing of such appliances. The
Court narrowly interprets the term "use" to condemn as
criminal only the first use of the mails; in this way the
Court restricts venue for prosecution to Illinois for trial
of an offender who mails a denture in Illinois which is
subsequently delivered through "use" of the mails in
Delaware. We think, however, that the statute condemns and makes criminal any use of the mails for the
prohibited purpose. Under this interpretation the appellees' use of the mails is punishable in Delaware and
the dismissal of the information in this case should be
reversed.
The venue of a crime may be fixed at any place where
the acts denounced as crimes occur.' There is no disagreement as to this rule of law. The Court reaches its
conclusion upon venue under the Federal Denture Act
not upon any compulsion of Constitution or statute but
because a restriction of the venue to the place of mailing
seemed to it more consonant with the underlying purposes
of the Constitutional provisions as to venue. These purposes are thought, as the Court expresses it, to ilclude a
trial in an environment which is not alien to the accused.
We think the Court misapprehends the purpose of the
Constitutional provisions. We understand them to as' Constitution of the United States, Art. III, § 2, cl. 3; Sixth
Amendment. Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56,
73-77; Salinger v. Loisel, 265 U. S. 224, 232-235; Homer v. United
States, No. 1, 143 U. S. 207, 213; In re Palliser, 136 U. S. 257, 265;
Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62, 78; Haas v. Henkel, 216 U. S. 462,
473.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
273

REED,

J., dissenting.

sure a trial in the place where the crime is committed
and not to be concerned with the domicile of the criminal
nor with his familiarity with the environment of the place
of trial. Haas v. Henkel, 216 U. S. 462. Indeed in the
present information nothing appears as to residence or
domicile of the accused or as to their place of business.
Congress by its specification of the precise acts denounced as crimes fixes venue at the place where those acts
are committed. Our inquiry, then, must be directed to a
determination of what constitutes the crime denounced
by the Denture Act. The statute condemns as unlawful
the "use" of the "mails or any instrumentality of interstate commerce for the purpose of sending or bringing into
any State" the prohibited dentures. It is not the deposit
of the article or its delivery which is forbidden but the use
of the transportation facilities. The sending or bringing
of the dentures is not denounced as a substantive crime
apart from the use of mails or instrumentalities to accomplish the purpose. The crime consists of the use of the
mails to send a prohibited denture "into" or bring it "into"
another state. The language leads us to the conclusion
that a use for the prohibited purpose occurs at whatever
place the proscribed denture is handled by the mails or an
instrumentality of commerce.
The "use" for the "purpose" results in a continuous offense.2 Since the offense is committed wherever the mails
or the instrumentalities of interstate commerce are used
for the purpose of sending or bringing the denture into a
state contrary to the statute and the act has no. provision
otherwise limiting the place of trial, the venue is at what2 Cf. United States v. Kissel, 218 U. S. 601; Hyde v. United States,
225 U. S. 347, 360-67; United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310
U. S. 150, 250; In re Snow, 120 U. S. 274; Clark & Marshall, Crimes
(4th Ed.), § 504 (d); Wharton Criminal Law (12th Ed.), § 338. See
also In re Richter, 100 F. 295, 298; Morris v. United States, 229 F.
516, 521.

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
REED,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

ever place these acts are committed. One of the places
in the present case is Delaware "into" which the dentures
were brought by appellees' use of the mails in that state.3
If this analysis is correct, there was no occasion for Congress to follow the suggestion as to venue of the Postmaster General to which the Court refers.
The title of the act indicates that it is directed at
practices thought to lead to dental disorders and "to prevent the circumvention of certain State or Territorial laws
regulating the practice of dentistry." 56 Stat. 1087.
These state laws regulated the fabrication of prosthetic
dental appliances. From the hearings' it is clear that
the purpose of Congress was to protect the public against
the evils of ill-fitting dental appliances by restricting interstate commerce to dental appliances which were approved by licensed practitioners of the state into which
the appliances were brought. Such was declared to be
its purpose by the report of the Senate Committee. S.
Rep. No. 1779, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 1. As the injury
would occur normally at the place of delivery and as the
act is designed to protect only those states which have
laws regulating the furnishing of appliances by unlicensed
practitioners, Congress would naturally enact legislation
which might punish violations in the state of delivery.
3 Cf. Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56, 72-74;
United States v. Midstate Co., 306 U. S. 161, 165; and see United

States v. Lombardo, 241 U. S. 73, 77; United States v. Freeman, 239
U. S. 117, and In re Palliser, 136 U. S. 257. The latter two cases illustrate the difference between a continuous offense and one begun in
one state and completed in another. Compare Judicial Code, § 42,
28 U. S. C. § 103, wYith § 3237 of H. R. 5450, 78th Cong., 2d Sess.
I Hearing before a Subcommittee of the House Committee on
Interstate and Foreign Commerce, February 3 and 4, 1942, 77th
Cong., 2d Sess., on H. R. 5674; Hearing before a Subcommittee of
the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, July 15, 16, 17 and
20, 1942, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., on S. 2371.

EX PARTE ENDO.
273

283

Syllabus.

The prosecuting officers of that state would be most interested in enforcement and would best understand the
scope of the laws of the state of delivery. Congress
would not wish to leave immune shipments from foreign
countries.
The

Cf. United States v. Freeman, 239 U. S. 117.

CHIEF JUSTICE,

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

MR. JUSTICE

DOUGLAS and MR.

join in this dissent.

EX PARTE MITSUYE ENDO.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 70. Argued October 12, 1944.-Decided December 18, 1944.
1. The War Relocation Authority, whose power over persons evacuated from military areas derives from Executive Order No. 9066,
which was ratified and confirmed by the Act of March 21, 1942,
was without authority, express or implied, to subject to its leave
procedure a concededly loyal and law-abiding citizen of the United
States. P. 297.
2. Wartime measures are to be interpreted as intending the greatest
possible accommodation between the Constitutional liberties of the
citizen and the exigencies of war. P. 300.
3. The sole purpose of the Act of March 21, 1942 and Executive
Orders Nos. 9066 and 9102 was the protection of the war effort
against espionage and sabotage. P. 300.
4. Power to detain a concededly loyal citizen may not be implied from
the power to protect the war effort against espionage and sabotage.
P. 302.
5. The power to detain a concededly loyal citizen or to grant him a
conditional release can not be implied as a useful or convenient step
in the evacuation program. P. 302.
6. The Act of March 21, 1942 and Executive Orders Nos. 9066 and
9102 afford no basis for keeping loyal evacuees of Japanese ancestry in custody on the ground of community hostility. P. 302.
7. The District Court having acquired jurisdiction upon an application
for habeas corpus, and there being within the district one responsible for the detention and who would be an appropriate

