OCTOBER TERM, 194.
Syllabus.

323 U. S.

will not assume that Congress ratified the procedure of
the authorities in this case in the absence of some such
item as this in the appropriation bill:-"For the administration of the conditional release and parole programme in
force in relocation centers." In the light of the knowledge
Congress had as to the details of the programme, I think
the court is unjustified in straining to conclude that Congress did not mean to ratify what was being done.
3. I conclude, therefore, that the court is squarely faced
with a serious constitutional question,-whether the relator's detention violated the guarantees of the Bill of
Rights of the federal Constitution and especially the guarantee of due process of law. There can be but one answer
to that question. An admittedly loyal citizen has been
deprived of her liberty for a period of years. Under the
Constitution she should be free to come and go as she
pleases. Instead, her liberty of motion and other innocent
activities have been prohibited and conditioned. She
should be discharged.
INDUSTRIAL ADDITION ASSOCIATION v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 118.

Argued December 13, 1944.-Decided January 2, 1945.

1. In § 1141 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to review of
decisions of the Tax Court, the terms "jurisdiction" and ."venue"
have their usually accepted meaning. P. 314.
2. By § 1141 (a) all of the Circuit Courts of Appeals and the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia are given
jurisdiction to review decisions of the Tax Court, that is, power to
act judicially upon a petition for review. P. 314.
3. By § 1141 (b) (1) one of the courts of appeals is designated as
the court of proper venue, that is, the place where the petition
will be heard. P. 314.

INDUSTRIAL ASSN. v. COMMISSIONER.
310

311

Opinion of the Court.

4. The objection that the petition is filed in the wrong .circuit, being
one to venue, may be waived by the Government; and this it did
here by stipulating that the case be heard in the court of appeals
designated by the parties., P. 314.
(a) The stipulation is not required to be filed within three
months of the decision of the Tax Court. P. 314.
(b) Nash-Breyer Motor Co. v. Burnet, 283 U. S. 483, distinguished. P. 315.
5. Petitioner filed a petition for review in the court below within
the three months' period allowed for that purpose by § 1142. That
court was not the court of proper venue under § 1141 (b) (1).
More than three months after the decision of the Tax Court, the
parties made and filed a stipulation to have the case heard in the
court below. Held, the court below on filing of the petition had
jurisdiction, and on the filing of the stipulation was the court of
proper venue. Dismissal of the petition for want of jurisdiction
was therefore improper. P. 315.
141 F. 2d 636, reversed.

CQRTIORARI, post, p. 690, to review a judgment dismissing
for want of jurisdiction a petition for review of a decision
of the Tax Court, 1 T. C. 378.
Mr. F. A. Berry for petitioner.

Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., with
whom SolicitorGeneralFahy,Messrs. Sewall Key, J. Louis
Monarch, and Miss Melva M. Graney were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.

In this case petitioner, deeming itself exempt from income and excess profits taxes, failed to file any tax returns
for the years 1932 to 1936 inclusive. The Commissioner

assessed petitioner for the taxes for those years, with penalties, and the Tax Court has sustained the assessment as
to the income taxes and attendant penalties. Petitioner,
within the three months allowed for that purpose by

§ 1142 of the Internal Revenue Code, sought review of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

Tax Court's decision by a petition for review filed with the
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
By § 1141 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code, entitled
"Jurisdiction," the Circuit Courts of Appeals and the
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia are given
"exclusive jurisdiction to review the decisions" of the Tax
Court. Subsection (b) (1), entitled "Venue," provides
that "such decisions may be reviewed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the circuit in which is located the collector's
office to which was made the return of the tax in respect
to which the liability arises or, if no return was made, then
by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia." Since petitioner filed no return, the Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia was the court of
proper venue under this subsection. If petitioner had
made a return, it would have been required to file it with
a collector whose office was within the sixth circuit, that
of the court below; in that event, that court would have
been the court of proper venue. The Code provides further, in subsection (b) (2): "Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, such decisions may be reviewed by
any Circuit Court of Appeals . . .which may be designated by the Commissioner and the taxpayer by stipulation in writing."
The Commissioner suggested to petitioner that as it
had filed no returns for the years in question and no written stipulation had been entered into as permitted by subsection (b) (2), the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit was without "jurisdiction." In response to this
suggestion, petitioner and the Commissioner, after the
expiration of the three months period in which a petition
for review could be filed, entered into such a written
stipulation, designating the Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit as the court to review the decision of the Tax
Court. The stipulation reserved to the Commissioner the
right to challenge its timeliness and legal effect.

INDUSTRIAL ASSN. v. COMMISSIONER. 313
310

Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, on the Commissioner's motion, dismissed the petition for review for
want of jurisdiction. 141 F. 2d 636. We granted certiorari to resolve an asserted conflict of the decision below
with that of the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in
Wegener v. Commissioner, 119 F. 2d 49. The question
presented is whether the court below had jurisdiction of
the petition for review of the decision of the Tax Court,
notwithstanding petitioner's failure to file the stipulation
during the three months period, within which review of
the Tax Court's decision could be sought.
The use in juxtaposition, in the statute, of the terms
"jurisdiction" and "venue" marks a significant distinction.
On the one hand, the statute confers power on the Circuit
Courts of Appeals generally, to act judicially on petitions
for review presented to them-which is "jurisdiction."
On the other, such of those courts as are specified by the
statute, or the stipulation which it authorizes, are designated as the place where, for convenience of the courts or
parties or both, the petition will be heard-which is
"venue." 1 Want of jurisdiction, unlike want of venue,
may not be cured by consent of the parties; but when the
court has jurisdiction, it has power to decide the case
brought before it, even though the court having venue is
one sitting in another circuit. General Investment Co. v.
Lake Shore & M. S. R. Co., 260 U. S. 261, 272-273; Burnrite Coal Co. v. Riggs, 274 U. S. 208, 211-212; General
Electric Co. v. Marvel Co., 287 U. S. 430, 434-435; Neirbo
Co. v. Bethlehem Corp., 308 U. S. 165, 167-168; Freeman
v. Bee Machine Co., 319 U.S. 448, 453. The right to have
a cause heard in the court of the proper venue may be lost
unless seasonably asserted; and in that event, the court of
'See Peoria& P. U. R. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 528, 535536, where this Court explained the same distinction made in the
Urgent Deficiencies Act, 38 Stat. 219, 28 U. S. C. §§ 41 (28), 43.

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

trial having jurisdiction but not the proper venue may
render a judgment binding on the parties. General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore & M. S. R. Co., supra, 272;
Commercial Casualty Co. v. Consolidated Stone Co., 278
U. S. 177, 179; Freeman v. Bee Machine Co., supra, 453.
The government may waive objections to venue, just as
any other litigant may, United States v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S.
1, 12; Thames & Mersey Ins. Co. v. United States, 237
U. S. 19, 24-25; Peoria& P. U. R. Co. v. United States, 263
U. S. 528, 535-536, and here such Waiver, by stipulation, is
contemplated by § 1141 (b) (2).
We have no reason to suppose that the terms "jurisdiction" and "venue" were used in the statute in other than
their usually accepted meaning, and no convincing reason
has been advanced why that meaning should not be
accepted here. Unless these plain terms are to be disregarded, all the Circuit Courts of Appeals are given jurisdiction to review decisions of the Tax Court upon-a petition for review, that is, power to act judicially upon the
petition. Peoria & P. U. R. Co. v. United States, supra,
535-536. Consequently when in this case petitioner filed
its petition with the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit,
that court did not lack power to proceed with the cause,
although the court of proper venue was the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, as prescribed by § 1141
(b) (1). The parties were free to waive this defect of
venue, by filing the stipulation in compliance with subsection (b) (2), designating the court below as the one to
act upon the petition, which was already before it and of
which it then had jurisdiction.
The government urges that the stipulation here did not
comply with § 1141 (b) (2), since it was not filed within
three months of the decision of the Tax Court. But § 1141
(b) (2) does not by its terms place any time limitation
upon the filing of the stipulation. The government relies

INDUSTRIAL ASSN. v. COMMISSIONER. 315
310

Opinion of the Court.

on the three months limitation in § 1142, which is in terms
applicable only to the filing of the petition for review.
The petition here was filed within three months in a court
having jurisdiction, and we see no reason to import into
the stipulation provision, § 1141 (b) (2), a time limitation
which it does not contain.
It is true, as the government argues, that dismissal
for want of the proper venue, of a petition for review pending in a Court of Appeals, controls the jurisdiction of the
court. But in such a case jurisdiction is controlled only by
terminating it. Here the case was not dismissed before
want of venue was supplied by stipulation in the manner
authorized by the statute. This imposed on the court the
duty to exercise its jurisdiction in deciding the case.
The government relies, as did the court below, on our
decision in Nash-Breyer Motor Co. v. Burnet, 283 U. S.
483. When that case arose, the provision in the applicable
Revenue Act for choice of venue by stipulation of the
parties, did not permit them to stipulate for review in any
circuit, but limited their choice to two specified circuits.
The parties in that case stipulated for review of a decision
of the Board of Tax Appeals in a circuit not authorized by
the statute, and thus did not conform to the statutory
venue requirement. We sustained the action of the Court
of Appeals in dismissing the petition for review on the
ground that the court was not bound to exercise its jurisdiction where the proper venue was in another court, saying, p. 487: "The restriction on the power of the parties
to stipulate as to venue would be meaningless if they could
waive it without the consent of the court." In this case
the stipulation conforms to the statute, and is without the
infirmity found to be fatal in the Nash-Breyer case.
Here the court acquired jurisdiction of the cause under
the statute by the timely filing of the petition for review,
and the parties were authorized by § 1141 (b) (2) to stip-

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Statement of the Case.

323 U. S.

ulate that the review should be had in that court. On filing the stipulation the cause was then pending in the court
having venue, as well as jurisdiction, and the case was
improperly dismissed.
Reversed.
COFFMAN v. BREEZE CORPORATIONS, INC.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 71. Argued December 7, 1944.-Decided January 2, 1945.
1. A bill of complaint by a patent owner against licensees, seeking an
adjudication of unconstitutionality of the Royalty Adjustment Act
and an injunction against the licensees from complying with the Act
and orders issued pursuant thereto, but seeking no recovery of
royalties alleged to be due from the licensees, held to state no
cause of action in equity and to present no case or controversy
within the judicial power of the United States as defined by § 2 of
Article III of the Constitution. P. 321.
2. In the circumstances disclosed by the record and for purposes of
the present suit, the constitutionality of the Act is without legal
significance and can involve no justiciable question unless and until
the complainant seeks recovery of the royalties, and then only if the
Act is relied on as a defense. P. 324.
3. The declaratory judgment procedure is available in the federal
courts only when an actual case or controversy is involved, and may
not be used to secure merely an advisory opinion. P. 324.
4. The Court will not pass upon the constitutionality of legislation in
a suit which is not adversary, or upon the complaint of one who
fails to show that he is injured by its operation, or until it is
necessary to do so to preserve the rights of the parties. P. 324.
55 F. Supp. 501, affirmed.
APPEAL from the dismissal by a District Court of three
judges of the complaint in a suit by a patent owner against
his licensees, challenging the constitutionality of the
Royalty Adjustment Act. The United States had been
permitted to intervene.

