126

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
323 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ARMOUR & CO. v. WANTOCK

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 73.

Argued October 13, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.

1. Fireguards employed by a manufacturer of goods for interstate
comnerce, held covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938,
as employed in an "occupation necessary to the production" of
goods for interstate commerce. P. 129.
2. The conclusion of both courts below that, upon the facts of this
case, time spent on the employer's premises by fireguards subject
to call--excluding time spent sleeping and eating, but including
time spent idling or in recreation-was working time compensable
under the maximum hours and overtime provisions of the Fair
Labo-r Standards Act, sustained. P. 132.
3. Opinions of the Court are to be read in the light of the facts of the
case. P. 132.
140 F. 2d 356, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 322 U. S. 723, to review the affirmance of
a judgment for the plaintiffs in a suit under the Fair
Labor Standards Act for overtime, liquidated damages,
and attorney's fees.

Mr. Paul E. Blanchard, with whom Messrs. Chas. J.
Faulkner, Jr. and R. F. Feagans were on the brief, for
petitioner.
'Mr. Ben Meyers for respondents.
Solicitor General Fahy, Mr. Douglas B. Maggs, and
Miss Bessie Margolinfiled a brief on behalf of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U. S. Department
of Labor, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Armour and Company, petitioner, has been held liable
to certain employees for overtime, liquidated damages,

ARMOUR & CO. v. WANTOCK.
126

Opinion of the Court.

and attorneys' fees under the Fair Labor Standards Act.
140 F. 2d 356. The overtime in question is that spent
on the employer's premises as fireguards subject to call,
but otherwise put to such personal use as sleeping or recreation. The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit on
facts of considerable similarity reached an opposite result,
in Skidmore v. Swift & Co., 136 F. 2d 112, post, p. 134. To
resolve the conflict we granted certiorari in both cases.
322 U. S. 723.
Armour and Company operates a soap factory in Chicago which produces goods for interstate commerce. It
maintains a private fire-fighting force to supplement that
provided by the city. The respondents were employed
as fire fighters only, and otherwise had nothing to do with
the production of goods. They were not night watchmen,
a separate force being maintained for that purpose. They
were not given access to the factory premises at night
except by call or permission of the watchmen.
These men worked in shifts which began at 8:00 a. in.,
when they punched a time clock. The following nine
hours, with a half hour off for lunch, they worked at inspecting, cleaning, and keeping in order the company's
fire-fighting apparatus, which included fire engines, hose,
pumps, water barrels and buckets, extinguishers, and a
sprinkler system. At 5:00 p. m. they "punched out" on
the time clock. Then they remained on call in the fire
hall, provided by the Company and located on its property, until the following morning at 8:00. They went off
duty entirely for the next twenty-four hours and then
resumed work as described.
During this nighttime on duty they were required to
stay in the fire hall, to respond to any alarms, to make
any temporary repairs of fire apparatus, and take care of
the sprinkler system if defective or set off by mischance.
The time spent in these tasks was recorded and amounts
on average to less than a half hour a Week. The employer

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

does not deny that time actually so spent should be compensated in accordance with the Act.
The litigation concerns the time during which these
men were required to be on the employer's premises, to
some extent amenable to the employer's discipline, subject to call, but not engaged in any specific work. The
Company provided cooking equipment, beds, radios, and
facilities for cards and amusements with which the men
slept, ate, or entertained themselves pretty much as they
chose. They were not, however, at liberty to leave the
premises except that, by permission of the watchman,
they might go to a nearby restaurant for their evening
meal.
A single fixed weekly wage was paid to the men, regardless of the variation in hours per week spent on regular
or on firehouse duty, the schedule of shifts occasioning
considerable variation in weekly time.
This fire-fighting service was not maintained at the instance of the Company's officials in charge of production,
but at that of its insurance department. Several other
plants of Armour and those of numerous other manufacturers in the same industry produce similar goods for commerce without maintaining such a fire-fighting service.
On these facts the petitioner contends: first, that employees in such auxiliary fire-fighting capacity are not
engaged in commerce or in production of goods for commerce, or in any occupation necessary to such production
within the meaning of the Act; and, second, that even if
they were within the Act, time spent in sleeping, eating,
playing cards, listening to the radio, or otherwise amusing themselves, cannot be counted as working time. The
employees contended in the District Court that all of
such stand-by time, however spent, was employment time
within the Act, but they took no appeal from the judgment in so far as it was adverse to them.
The District Court held that the employees in such
service were covered by the Act. But it declined to go

ARMOUR & CO. v. WANTOCK.
126

.Opinion of the Court.

to either extreme demanded by the parties as to working
time. Usual hours for sleep and for eating it ruled would
Dot be counted, but the remaining hours should. Judgment was rendered for Wantock of $505.67 overtime, the
same amount in liquidated damages, and $600 for attorneys' fees; while Smith recovered $943.07 overtime, liquidated damages of equal amount, and attorneys' fees of
$650. The Court of Appeals affirmed.
First. Were the employees in question covered by the
Fair Labor Standards Act? Section 7 of the Act, 29 U. S.
C. § 207, by its own terms applies maximum hours provisions to two general classes of employees, those who are
engaged in commerce and those who are engaged in producing goods for commerce. Section 3 (j), 29 U. S. C.
§ 203 (j), adds another by the provision that "an employee shall be deemed to have been engaged in the production of goods if such employee was employed . . . in
any process or occupation necessary to the production"
of goods for commerce. The courts below held that the
respondents were included in this class. The petitioner
seeks to limit those entitled to this classification by reading the word "necessary" in the highly restrictive sense
of "indispensable," "essential," and "vital"-words it
finds in previous pronouncements of this Court dealing
with this clause. Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S.
517, 524-26; Overstreet v. North Shore Corp., 318 U. S.
125, 129, 130. These and other cases, says petitioner,
indicate that in applying the Act a distinction must be
made between those processes or occupations which an
employer finds advantageous in his own plan of production and those without which he could not practically produce at all. Present respondents, it contends, clearly fall
within the former category because soap can be and in
many other plants is produced without the kind of fire
protection which these employees provide.
The argument would give an unwarranted rigidity to
the application of the word "necessary," which has always

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court..

323 U. S.

been recognized as a word to be harmonized with its context. See McCulloch v. Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, 413, 414.
No hard and fast rule will tell us what can be dispensed
with in "the production of goods." All depends upon the
detail with which that bare phrase is clothed. In the law
of infants' liability, what are "necessaries" may well vary
with the environment to which the infant is exposed: climate and station in life and many other factors. So, too,
no hard and fast rule may be transposed from one industry
to another to say what is necessary in "the production of
goods." What is practically necessary to it will depend
on its environment and position. A plant may be so built
as to be an exceptional fire hazard, or it may be menaced
by neighborhood. It may be farther from public fire protection, or its use of inflammable materials may make
instantaneous response to fire alarm of peculiar importance to it. "Whatever terminology is used, the criterion
is necessarily one of degree and must be so defined."
Santa Cruz Co. v. Labor Board, 303 U. S. 453, 467; Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517, 526. In their context,
the restrictive words like "indispensable," which petitioner
quotes, do not have the automatic significance petitioner
seeks to give them. What is required is a practical judgment as to whether the particular employer actually
operates the work as part of an integrated effort for the
production of goods.
The fact that respondents were hired by an employer
which shows no ostensible purpose for being in business
except to produce goods for commerce is not without
weight, even though we recognized in Kirschbaum Co. v.
Walling that it might not always be decisive (316 U. S. at
525). A court would not readily assume that a corporation's management was spending stockholders' money on a
mere hobby or an extravagance. The company does not
prove or assert that this fire protection is so unrelated to
its business of production that it does not for income-tax

ARMOUR & CO. v. WANTOCK.
126

Opinion of the Court.

purposes deduct the wages of these employees from gross
income as "ordinary and necessary expenses" (Int. Rev.
Code § 23 (a) (1)). The record shows that this department not only helps to safeguard the continuity of production against interruption by fire but serves a fiscal
purpose as well. Without the depatment, insurance could
not be obtained at any price except by employing enough
watchmen to make hourly rounds; with it, only enough
watchmen for rounds every two hours are needed. This
saves twelve watchmen, or about $17,600 a year, and reduces insurance premiums by $1,200 a year. What the net
savings are has not been stipulated, but it is clear that this
so-called "de luxe" service is maintained because it is good
business to do so. More is necessary to a successful enterprise than that it be physically able to produce goods
for commerce. It also aims to produce them at a price
at which it can maintain its competitive place, and an
occupation is not to be excluded from the Act merely
because it contributes to economy or to continuity of
production rather than to volume of production.
If some of the phrases quoted from previous decisions
describe a higher degree of essentiality than these respondents can show, it must be observed that they were all
uttered in cases in which the employees were held to be
within the Act. A holding that a process or occupation
described as "indispensable" or "vital" is one "necessary"
within the Act cannot be read as an authority that all
which cannot be so described are out of it. McLeod v.
Threlkeld, 319 U. S. 491, which did exclude the employee
from the scope of the Act, is not in point here because it
involved application of the other clause of the Act, covering employees engaged "in commerce," and the test of
whether one is in commerce is obviously more exacting
than the test of whether his occupation is necessary to
production for commerce.
But we think the previous cases indicate clearly that
respondents axe within the Act. Kirschbaum Co. v. Wall-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

ing, supra, held that watchmen, as well as engineers, firemen, carpenters and others, were covered, because they
contributed to "the maintenance of a safe, habitable building" which was, in turn, necessary for the production of
goods. Again, in Walton v. Southern Package Corp., 320
U. S. 540, the "necessary for production" clause was held
to cover a night watchman for a manufacturing company,
and we pointed to the reduction of fire insurance premiums
as evidence that a watchman "would make a valuable
contribution to the continuous production of respondent's
goods." The function of these employees is not significantly different.
The courts below did not err in holding that respondents
were employed in an occupation reasonably necessary to
production as carried on by the employer and hence were
covered by the Act.
Second. Was it error to count time spent in playing
cards and other amusements, or in idleness, as working
time?
The overtime provisions of the Act, § 7, 52 Stat. 1063,
29 U. S. C. § 207, apply-only to those who are "employees"
and to "employment" in excess of the specified hours; § 3
(g), 29 U. S. C. § 203 (g), provides that "'employ' includes to suffer or permit to work."
Here, too, the employer interprets former opinions of
the Court as limitations on the Act. It cites statements
that the Congressional intent was "to guarantee either
regular or overtime compensation for all actual work or
employment" and that "Congress here was referring to
work or employment . . . as those words are commonly
used--as meaning physical or mental exertion (whether
burdensome or not) controlled or required by the employer and pursued necessarily and primarily for the benefit of the employer and his business" (italics supplied).
Tennessee Coal, Iron & R. Co. v. Muscoda Local, 321 U. S.
590, 597, 598. It is timely again to remind counsel that

ARMOUR & CO. v. WANTOCK.
126

Opinion of the Court.

words of our opinions are to be read in the light of the facts
of the case under discussion. To keep opinions within
reasonable bounds precludes writing into them every
limitation or variation which might be suggested by the
circumstances of cases not before the Court. General expressions transposed to other facts are often misleading.
The context of the language cited from the Tennessee
Coal case should be sufficient to indicate that the quoted
phrases were not intended as a limitation on the Act, and
have no necessary application to other states of facts.
• Of course an employer, if he chooses, may hire a man to
do nothing, or to do nothing but wait for something to
happen. Refraining from other activity often is a factor
of instant readiness to serve, and idleness plays a part in
all employments in a stand-by capacity. Readiness to
serve may be hired, quite as much as service itself, and
time spent lying in wait for threats to the safety of the
employer's property may be treated by the parties as a
benefit to the employer. Whether time is spent predominantly for the employer's benefit or for the employee's is
a question dependent upon all the circumstances of the
case.
That inactive duty may be duty nonetheless is not a
new principle invented for application to this Act. In
Missouri, K. & T. R. Co. v. United States, 231 U. S. 112,
119, the Court held that inactive time was to be.counted
in applying a federal Act prohibiting the keeping of employees on duty for more than sixteen consecutive hours.
Referring to certain delays, this Court said, "In the meantime the men were waiting, doing nothing. It is argued
that they were not on duty during this period and that if
it be deducted, they were not kept more than sixteen
hours. But they were under orders, liable to be called
upon at any moment, and not at liberty to go away. They,
were none the less on duty when inactive. Their. duty
was to stand and wait."

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Statement of the Case.

323 U. S.

We think the Labor Standards Act does not exclude
as working time periods contracted for and spent on duty
in the circumstances disclosed here, merely because the
nature of the duty left time hanging heavy on the employees' hands and because the employer and employee
cooperated in trying to make the confinement and idleness incident to it more tolerable. Certainly they were
competent to agree, expressly or by implication, that an
employee could resort to amusements provided by the
employer without a violation of his agreement or a departure from his duty. Both courts below having concurred in finding that under the circumstances and the
arrangements between the parties the time so spent was
working time, we therefore affirm.
Affirmed.
SKIDMORE ET AL. V. SWIFT & CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 12. Argued October 13, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.
1. No principle of law precluded a determination that waiting time
was working time under the Fair Labor Standards Act. Armour
& Co. v. Wantock, ante, p. 126. P. 136.
2. Whether time spent on the employer's premises (or in hailing distance) by fireguards subject to call was working time under the
Fair Labor Standards Act is a question of fact to be resolved by
appropriate findings of the trial court. P. 136.
3. Although the rulings, interpretations and opinions of the Administrator under the Fair Labor Standards Act do not control judicial
decision, they do constitute a body of experience and informed judgment to which courts and litigants may properly resort for guidance.
P. 140.
136 F. 2d 112, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 322 U. S.723, to review the affirmance of a
judgment, 53 F. Supp. 1020, denying recovery in a suit
under the Fair Labor Standards Act for overtime, liquidated damages, and attorney's fees.

