OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

323 U. S.

man, 319 U. S. 293, because of the uncertainty surrounding the adequacy of the Connecticut remedy. See Waterbury Savings Bank v. Lawler, 46 Conn. 243; Wilcox v.
Town of Madison, 106 Conn. 223, 137 A. 742. But there
is no doubt that Connecticut makes available an action
for declaratory judgment for the determination of those
issues of Connecticut law involved here. Charter Oak
Council, Inc. v. Town of New Hartford, 121 Conn. 466,
185 A. 575; Conzelman v. City of Bristol, 122 Conn.
218, 188 A. 659; Walsh v. City of Bridgeport, 2 Conn.
Supp. 88.
We therefore vacate the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals and remand the cause to the District Court
with directions to retain the bill pending the determination of proceedings to be brought with reasonable promptitude in the State court in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK dissents.

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD RICE CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 72.

Argued November 16, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.

1. A contract for the sale of material to the United States contained
the following provision: "Prices bid herein include any federal tax
heretofore imposed by the Congress which is applicable to the material on this bid. Any sales tax, duties, imposts, revenues, excise
or other taxes which may hereafter (the date set for the opening
of this bid) be imposed by the Congress and made applicable to
the material on this bid will be charged to the Government and
entered on invoices as a separate item." Held that the United
States was not entitled to recover from the contractor processing
taxes imposed by the Agricultural Adjustment Act, which taxes
efficient remedy may be had at law or in equity in the courts of

such State."

U. S. v. STANDARD RICE CO.
106

Opinion of the Court.

were "applicable" to the material within the meaning of the contract, but which, because subsequently adjudged invalid, were never
collected from the contractor. United States v. Kansas Flour Mills
Corp., 314 U. S. 212, distinguished. P. 110.
2. Generally the United States as a contractor is' to be treated as
other contractors, and a contract which it draws is not to be judicially revised because it may have been improvident. P. .111.
101 Ct. Cls. 85, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 322 U. S. 725, to review' a judgment denying an offset to a claim against the United States.
Miss Helen R. Carloss, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
Messrs. Sewall Key, Robert N. Anderson, Walter J. Cummings, Jr., and Mrs. Elizabeth B. Davis were on the brief,
for the United States.
Mr. M. K. Eckert, with whom Mr. John C. White was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought in the Court of Claims to
recover an overpayment of income taxes made by respondent. The United States conceded that the amount
claimed was owed. But the Comptroller General, pursuant to his power under § 305 of the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921 (42 Stat. 20, 31 U. S. C. § 71) settled
and adjusted the claim by offsetting against it an amount
which he concluded respondent owed the United States
under a contract. Since the latter claim equalled the
overassessment on the income taxes, the Comptroller General refused to authorize a refund to respondent. This
suit followed. The Court of Claims denied the offset and
entered judgment for respondent in the amount claimed
with interest. 101 Ct. Cls. 85, 53 F. Supp. 717. The case
is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari'. which we
"See Act of February 13,11925, § 3 (b), 43 Stat. 939, amended by
the Act of May 22, 1939, 53 Stat. 752, 28 U. S. C. § 288 (b).

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U.S.

granted because of an "asserted conflict of the decision
below with United States v. American Packing & Provision Co., 122 F. 2d 445 and United States v.' Kansas
FlourMills Corp., 314 'U.
S. 212.
The contract under which the claim against respondent
was asserted was made in November, 1935. Respondent
agreed to supply rice to the Navy Department at the :bid
prices specified in the contract. A typical price provision
listed 290,000 pounds of rice at a unit price (per pound)
of .046¢ or a total price of $13,340. The contract contained the following provision:
"Prices bid herein include any federal tax heretofore
imposed by the Congress .which is applicable to the material on this bid. Any sales tax, duties, imposts,, revenues,
excise or other taxes which may hereafter (the date set
for the opening of this bid) be imposed by the Congress
and made applicable to the material on this bid will be
charged to the Government and entered on invoices as a
separate item."
Respondent made the required deliveries .to the United
St.ates and received the full price specified in the contract.
Respondent was the first domestic processor of the rice
and accordingly, paid the processing taxes imposed by
the Agricultural Adjustment Act (48 Stat. 31, 7 U. S. C.
§§ 609, 611) from April 1, 1935, until September 20, 1935.
Before paying the processing tax on'the rice processed for
the month of. October, 1935; respondent obtained an injunction against its collection. The tax was held invalid
in United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1, decided January
6, 1936. Consequently. respondent never paid the processing taxes on the rice supplied to the United States under
the November, 1935, contract.2
2

Respondent' did, however, pay an 'unjust enrichment tax of
$72,072.30 on account of being relieved of -the processing tax:. See
Title III of the Revenue Act of 1936, 49 Stat. 1648, 1734.. It was
computed and . assessed upon the basis of inclusion of units involved

U. S. v. STANDARD RICE CO.
106

Opinion of the Court;

The tax was a federal tax "applicable" to the rice within
the meaning 'of the contract. United States v. Glenn L.
Martin Co., 308 U. S. 62,.65. Its amount was known, and
the vendor, was responsible by regulation for its payment.
United States v..Kansas Flour Mills Corp.,.supra, p. 214.
It is therefore arguable that the vendor fixed the bid price
to provide a margin .of profit after payment of those taxes
for which it was responsible, that the price was designed
to offset pro,tanto the amount of the taxes, and that if
they were not paid, the price should be reduced. That is
the position taken by the United States and it,
relies on
the following statement in United States v. Kansas Flour
Mills Corp., supra,pp; 216-217: "In the contracts in question, the Government did not buy for resale. Unless it
received the tax it suffered a definite disadvantage. Its
purpose, as shown by the contracts, was to balance the tax
element -in the price paid with- the tax collected. The
Government, which could not pass on the tax on resale,
was thus protected; not against. a fail in the market price
but against a loss in its tax revenues." But, we were there
only answering the argument that since the vendor did
not undertake to pay the tax, the rule in.
private, contracts
should be followed and'no readjustment of the price made
where the tax was not paid. The difference between the
cases was that -in the latter situation the vendee presumably passed on the tax while the United States did not
since it did not buy for. 'esale.- The vital fact in United
States v., Kansas Flour'Mills Corp. was the provision in
the contract for an up-or-down, revision of the price in
in this suit. If those units had been excluded, the unjust enrichment tax would have'be'en reduced by $1,706.59. If respondent is
required' t reduce its price' by'the amount of the unpaid' processing
tax, it is not
actions. See
216, note 6.
respondent is

subject to the 'unjust enrichment tax on these transUnited States v. Kan'sas Flour'Mills Corp., supra, p.
The United States concedes that' if 'it prevails the
entitled 'to recover $1,706.59. , * ...

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U.S:

case of a change in the processing tax by Congress.: It
provided that if a processing tax was thereafter "imposed
or changed by the Congress," the contract price was to-be
"increased or decreased accordingly." It was held that
the decision in United States v. Butler and its recognition
in the Revenue Act of 1936 amounted to a downward
change calling for a decrease-in the contract price. 314
U. S. p. 217. There is no such provision in the present
contract. The clause that the bid prices include "any
federal tax heretofore imposed by the Congress which is
applicable to the material" must be read in the context
of this particular contract. When it is so read, a result
different from that reached in United States v. Kansas
Flour Mills Corp. is indicated.
The present contract provides for payment by the
United States of sales and other taxes thereafter imposed
by Congress and made applicable to the rice. But while
it makes that provision for upward readjustment of the
price, it provides for no downward revision in case 'of subsequent changes in any. tax. That silence gains added
significance here in view of the fact that at the time the
contract was made the payment of these processing taxes
was being hotly contestedand the litigation resulting in
United States v. Butler, supra, was well under way. The
inference is strong therefore that the parties intended the
price to be firm, except as it might be increased through
the imposition of new taxes. The provision for the inclusion of applicable taxes provides a formula for determining the; price to be billed. Since the tax in question
could not by the terms of the contract be billed to the
United States, there was noovercharge. If the contractor
lawfully 'avoids payment of a tax he reduces his cost and
increases his profit. But in absence of a.provision which
authorizes it the reduction of cost is hardly the basis of a
refund to the United States. As the Court of Claims
points out, it is hard to see how the vendor could be re-

SMITH v. DAVIS.
Syllabus.

106

quired to pay the United States any savings which it made
as a result of reductions in tariff duties. Yet the difference between them and other taxes under this contract
is not apparent. Although there will be exceptions, in
general the United States as a contractor must be treated
as other contractors under analogous situations. When
problems of the interpretation of its contracts arise the
law of contracts governs. Hollerbach v. United States,
233 U. S. 165, 171-172; United States v. Bethlehem Steel
Corp., 315 U. S. 289, 298-299. We will treat it like any
other contractor and not revise the contract which it
draws on the ground that a more prudent one might have
been made. United States v. American Surety Co., 322
U. S. 96.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE BLACK dissents.

SMITH ET AL., PARTNERS, v. DAVIS ET AL.,
OF COUNTY

COUNTY,

TAX ASSESSORS

AS

BOARD

OF FULTON

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 23. Argued October 16, 1944.-Decided December 4, 1944.
1. An open account claim of a creditor of the United States, representing a balance claimed to be due under Army construction contracts, held not a credit instrumentality of the United States and
not constitutionally immune from non-discriminatory state taxation. P. 113.
2. R. S. § 3701, exempting from state and local taxation "All stocks,
bonds, Treasury notes, and other obligations of the United States,"
held inapplicable to an open account claim of a creditor of the
United States. P. 116.
3. Under the rule of ejusdem generis, the words "other obligations"
in R. S. § 3701 are to be construed as referring only to obligations
or securities of the same type as those specifically enumerated, and
not as extending to non-interest-bearing claims or obligations which
the United States does not use or need for credit purposes. P. 117.
197 Ga. 95, 28 S.E. 2d 148, affirmed.

