OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

323 U. S.

Of course the existence of a military power resting on
force, so vagrant, so centralized, so necessarily heedless
of the individual, is an inherent threat to liberty. But I
would not lead people to rely on this Court for a review
that seems to me wholly delusive. The military reasonableness of these orders can only be determined by military superiors. If the people ever let command of the
war power fall into irresponsible and unscrupulous hands,
the courts wield no power equal to its restraint. The chief
restraint upon those who command the physical forces of
the country, in the future as in the past, must be their
responsibility to the political judgments of their contemporaries and to the moral judgments of history.
My duties as a justice as I see them do not require me
to make a military judgment as to whether General DeWitt's evacuation and detention program was a reasonable military necessity. I do not suggest that the courts
should have attempted to interfere with the Army in
carrying out its task. But I do not think they may be
asked to execute a military expedient that has no place
in law under the Constitution. I would reverse the judgment and discharge the prisoner.
WALLACE CORPORATION v. NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD.
NO. 6 6.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued November 15, 16, 1944.-Decided December 18, 1944.
1. The findings of the National Labor Relations Board in an unfair
labor practice proceeding that labor organization "A", which the
Board had previously certified as collective bargaining representative, had been set up, maintained and used by the employer to
frustrate the threatened unionization of its plant by labor organiza*Together with No. 67, Richwood Clothespin & Dish Workers'
Union v. National Labor Relations Board, also on certiorari to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.

WALLACE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
248

249

Counsel for Parties.

tion "B", and that the closed-shop contract between A and the
employer had been entered into by the employer with knowledge
that A intended to use the contract as a means of bringing about
the discharge of employees who were members of B by denying
them membership in A, were supported by the evidence and supported the Board's order requiring the employer to disestablish A, to
cease and desist from giving effect to the closed-shop contract, and
to reinstate with back pay employees found to have been discharged
because of their affiliation with B, and because of their failure to
belong to A, as required by the closed-shop contract. P. 251.
2. Having found that there was a subsequent unfair labor practice,
the Board was justified in considering evidence as to the employer's
conduct both before and after the settlement agreement and certification. P. 255.
3. Although the proviso of § 8 (3) of the National Labor Relations
Act permits closed-shop agreements, it was nevertheless an unfair
labor practice for the employer to execute a closed-shop agreement
with knowledge that A intended to deny membership to B employees because of their former affiliation with B. P. 255.
4. A labor organization which has been selected as bargaining representative under the National Labor Relations Act becomes the
agent of all the employees, charged with the responsibility of representing their interests fairly and impartially. P. 255.
5. The employer was not compelled by law to enter into a contract
under which it knew that discriminatory discharges would occur;
and the record discloses that there was more which the employer
could and should have done to prevent the discriminatory discharges
even after the contract was executed. P. 256.
141 F. 2d 87, affirmed.

CFTIORARI, 322 U. S. 721, to review a decree granting
enforcement of an order of the National Labor Relations
Board, 50 N. L. R. B. 138.
Mr. R. Walston Chubb, with whom Mr. Lyle M. Allen
was on the brief, for petitioner in No. 66.
Mr. M. E. Boiarsky, with whom Mr. C. S. Rhyne was

on the brief, for petitioner in No. 67.
Mr. Alvin J. Rockwell, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Messrs. Robert L. Stern, Marcel Mallet-Provost,

and Miss Ruth Weyand were on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

MR. JusTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

In an attempt to settle a labor dispute at the plant of
petitioner company, an agreement approved by the Board
was signed by a C. I. 0. union, an Independent union,
and the company. At a consent election held pursuant to
this agreement, Independent won a majority of the votes
cast,' and was certified by the Board as bargaining representative. The company then signed a union shop contract with Independent, with knowledge-so the Board
has found-that Independent intended, by refusing membership to C. I. 0. employees, to oust them from their
jobs. Independent refused to admit C. I. 0. men to membership and the company discharged them.
In a subsequent unfair labor practice proceeding the
Board found that (1) Independent had been set up, maintained, and used by the petitioner to frustrate the threatened unionization of its plant by the C. I. 0., and (2) the
union shop contract was made by the company with
knowledge that Independent intended to use the contract
as a means of bringing about the discharge of former
C. I. 0. employees by denying them membership in Independent. The Board held that the conduct of the company in both these instances constituted unfair labor
practices. It entered an order requiring petitioner to disestablish Independent, denominated by it a "company
union"; to cease and desist from giving effect to the union
shop contract between it and Independent; and to reinstate with back pay forty-three employees, found to have
been discharged because of their affiliation with the
C. I. 0., and because of their failure to belong to Independent, as required by the union shop contract 2 The
Circuit Court of Appeals ordered enforcement of the
1Of 207 eligible employees, 98 voted for Independent, 83 for the
C. I. 0., and 26 did not vote.
2
50 N. L. R. B. 138.

WALLACE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
248

251

Opinion of the Court.

Order.' We granted certiorari because of the importance
to the administration of the Act of the questions involved.
322 U. S. 721.
The Board's findings if valid support the entire order.
This is so because § 8 (3) of the Act 4 does not permit
such a contract to be made between a company and a labor
organization which it has "established, maintained, or assisted." ' The Board therefore is authorized by the Act
to order disestablishment of such unions and to order an
employer to renounce such contracts.' Nor can the company, if the. Board's findings are well-grounded, defend
its discharge of the C. I. 0. employees on the ground that
the contract with Independent required it to do so. It
is contended that the Board's findings are not supported
by substantial evidence. As shown by its analysis, the
Board gave careful consideration to the evidence before
it relating to the unfair labor practices which occurred
both before and after the settlement agreement and the
certification. The Circuit Court of Appeals unreservedly
affirmed the Board's findings, and we find ample substantiating evidence in the record to justify that affirmance. We need therefore but briefly refer to the circumstances leading to the Board's order.
The findings of the Board establish the fact of an abiding hostility on the part of the company to any recognition of a C. I. 0. union. This hostility we must take it
extended to any employee who did or who might affiliate
3 141 F. 2d 87.
4 Section 8 (3) contains a proviso to the effect that nothing in the
Act "shall preclude an employer from making an agreement with a
labor organization (not established, maintained, or assisted by any
action defined in this Act as an unfair labor practice) to require as
a condition of employment membership therein ...
"
(Italics
added.)
5 Labor Board v. Electric Vacuum Cleaner Co., 315 U. S. 685, 694.
6I. A. of M. v. Labor Board, 311 U. S. 72, 81-2; Labor Board v.
Falk Corp., 308 U. S. 453, 461.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

himself with the C. I. 0. union. The company apparently preferred to close down this one of its two plants
rather than to bargain collectively with the C. I. 0. It
publicly proclaimed through one of its foremen that "...
the ones that did not sign up with the C. I. 0. didn't have
anything to worry about . . . the company would see that
they was taken care of." The settlement agreement
plainly implied that the old employees could retain their
jobs with the company simply by becoming members of
whichever union would win the election. Nevertheless,
the company entered into an agreement with Independent
which inevitably resulted in bringing about the discharge
of a large bloc of C. I. 0. men and their president.
The contract was executed after notice to the company
by the business manager of Independent that Independent
must have the right to refuse membership to old C. I. 0.
employees who might jeopardize its majority. This business manager, who had himself originally been recommended to Independent by a company employee, wrote
the company, prior to the making of the contract, that
Independent insisted upon a closed-shop agreement because it wanted a "legal means of disposing of any present
employees" who might affect its majority, and "who are
unfavorable to our interests." The contract further significantly provided that the company would be released
from the clause requiring it to retain in its employ union
men only, if Independent should lose its majority and the
C. I. 0. win it."
Neither the Board nor the court below found that the
company engaged in a conspiracy to bring about the dis7The contract reads: "It is mutually agreed by both parties hereto
that should the Union at any time become affiliated in any way with
any labor organization or federation having membership or local
union affiliations in more than one town outside of the City of Richwood, West Virginia, this clause (E) of Article I shall immediately
become null and void, ... "

WALLACE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
248

253

Opinion of the Court.

charge of former C. I. 0. members. Both of them, however, have found that the contract was signed with
knowledge on the part of the Company that Independent
proposed to refuse to admit them to membership and thus
accomplish the very same purpose. By the plan carried
out the company has been able to achieve that which the
Board found was its object from the beginning, namely, to
rid itself of C. I. 0. members, categorized by its foreman
as "agitators."
. It is contended that the Board's finding as to company
domination has no support in the evidence because the evidence as to company domination antedated the settlement
and certification, and hence was improperly admitted.
The argument is that the Board cannot go behind the
settlement and certification. The petitioner does not
argue that any language appearing in the Labor Relations Act denies this power to the Board, but relies upon
general principles on which the judicial rule governing
estoppel is based. Only recently we had occasion to note
that the differences in origin and function between administrative bodies and courts "preclude wholesale transplantation of the rules of procedure, trial, and review
which have evolved from the history and experience of
courts." Federal Communications Commission v. Pottsville BroadcastingCo., 309 U. S. 134, 143. With reference
to the attempted settlement of disputes, as in the performance of other duties imposed upon it by the Act, the
Board has power to fashion its procedure to achieve the
Act's purpose to protect employees from unfair labor
practices. We cannot, by incorporating the judicial concept of estoppel into its procedure, render the Board
powerless to prevent an obvious frustration of the Act's
purposes.
To prevent disputes like the one here involved, the
Board has from the very beginning encouraged compro-

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

mises and settlements.' The purpose of such attempted
settlements has been to end labor disputes, and so far as
possible to extinguish all the elements giving rise to them.
The attempted settlement here wholly failed to prevent
the wholesale discard of employees as a result of their
union affiliations.

The purpose of the settlement was

thereby defeated. Upon this failure, when the Board's
further action was properly invoked, it became its duty to
take fresh steps to prevent frustration of the Act. To
meet such situations the Board has established as a work-

ing rule the principle that it ordinarily will respect the
terms of a settlement agreement approved by it.9 It has
consistently gone behind such agreements, however, where
subsequent events have demonstrated that efforts at adjustment have failed to accomplish their purpose, or where

there has been a subsequent unfair labor practice."

We

8 Apparently more than 50% of all cases before it have been adjusted under its supervision. See First Annual Report of the National Labor Relations Board (1936), pp. 30-31; Second Annual
Report (1937), pp. 15-17; Third Annual Report (1938), pp. 20-22;
Fourth Annual Report (1939), pp. 19-22; Fifth Annual Report (1940),
pp. 14, 16-18, 20, 26; Sixth Annual Report (1941), pp. 14-15, 25,
26, 27, 29; Seventh Annual Report (1942), pp. 22-25, 28-30, 80-86;
Eighth Annual Report (1943), pp. 20-23, 91, 92.
9 Matter of Corn Products Refining Co., 22 N. L. R. B. 824, 828829; Matter of Wickwire Brothers, 16 N. L. R. B. 316, 325-326;
Matter of Godchaux Sugars, 12 N. L. R. B. 568, 576-579; Matter of
Shenandoah-Dives Mining Co., 11 N. L. R. B. 885, 888; cf. Matter
of Locomotive Finished Material Co., 52 N. L. R. B. 922, 927.
10 Matter of Locomotive Finished Material Co., supra, 926-928;
Matter of Chicago Casket Co., 21 N. L. R. B. 235, 252-256; Matter
of Harry A. Halff, 16 N. L. R. B. 667, 679-682 i cf. Matter of Wickwire
Brothers, supra. The courts have approved the Board's practice in
this respect. Labor Board v. Phillips Gas & Oil Co., 141 F. 2d 304,
305-6 (C. C. A. 3); Labor Board v. Hawk & Buck Co., 120 F. 2d
903, 904-5 (C. C. A. 5); Labor Board v. Thompson Products, 130 F.
2d 363, 366-67 (C. C. A. 6) ; Canyon Corp. v. Labor Board, 128 F. 2d
953, 955-956 (C. C. A. 8) ; Sperry Gyroscope Co. v. Labor Board, 129

WALLACE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
248

255

Opinion of the Court.

think this rule adopted by the Board is appropriate to
accomplish the Act's purpose with fairness to all concerned. Consequently, since the Board correctly found
that there was a subsequent unfair labor practice, it was
justified in considering evidence as to petitioner's conduct,
both before and after the settlement and certification.
The company denies the existence of a subsequent unfair
labor practice. It attacks the Board's conclusion that it
was an unfair labor practice to execute the union shop
contract with knowledge that Independent at that time
intended to deny membership to C. I. 0. employees because of their former affiliations with the C. I. 0. It admits that had there been no union shop agreement, discharge of employees on account of their membership in
the C. I. 0. would have been an unlawful discrimination
contrary to § 8 (3) of the Act. But the proviso in § 8 (3)
permits union shop agreements. It follows therefore, the
company argues, that, inasmuch as such agreements contemplate discharge of those who are not members of the
contracting union, and inasmuch as the company has no
control over admission to union membership, the contract
is valid and the company must discharge non-union members, regardless of the union's discriminatory purpose, and
the company's knowledge of such purpose. This argument we cannot accept.
The duties of a bargaining agent selected under the
terms of the Act extend beyond the mere representation
of the interests of its own group members. By its selection as bargaining representative, it has become the agent
of all the employees, charged with the responsibility of
representing their interests fairly and impartially. Otherwise, employees who are not members of a selected
union at the time it is chosen by the majority would be
F. 2d 922, 931 (C. C. A. 2). See Warehousemen's Union v. Labor
Board, 121 F. 2d 84, 92-94 (App. D. C.) cert. den. 314 U. S. 674.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

left without adequate representation. No employee can
be deprived of his employment because of his prior affiliation with any particular union. The Labor Relations
Act was designed to wipe out such discrimination in industrial relations. Numerous decisions of this Court dealing with the Act have established beyond doubt that workers shall not be discriminatorily discharged because- of
their affiliation with a union. We do not construe the
provision authorizing a closed shop contract as indicating an intention on the part of Congress to authorize a
majority of workers and a company, as in the instant
case, to penalize minority groups of workers by depriving them of that full freedom of association and selforganization which it was the prime purpose of the Act to
protect for all workers. It was as much a deprivation of
the rights of these minority employees for the company
discriminatorily to discharge them in collaboration with
Independent as it would have been had the company done
it alone. To permit it to do so by indirection, through
the medium of a "union" of its own creation, would be to
sanction a readily contrived mechanism for evasion of
the Act.
One final argument remains. The company, it is said,
bargained with Independent because it was compelled to
do so by law. The union shop contract to which the
company at first objected, but into which it entered against
the advice of counsel, was the result of that bargaining.
The company, it is pointed out, persistently though unsuccessfully sought to persuade Independent to admit C. I. 0.
workers as members of Independent. Hence, we are told,
the company did all in its power to prevent the discharges
and should not be held responsible for them. Two answers suggest themselves: First, that the company was
not compelled by law to enter into a contract under which
it knew that discriminatory discharges of its employees
were bound to occur; second, the record discloses that

WALLACE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
248

JACKSON,

257

J., dissenting.

there was more the company could and should have done
to prevent these discriminatory discharges even after the
contract was executed. Immediately after the discharge
of this large group of employees, the Labor Board complained to the company. The company appealed in writing to Independent's business manager to admit the men
to membership, and thus make possible their reinstatement. This appeal was rejected. The Board then called
to the company's attention our decision in Labor Board v.
Electric Vacuum Cleaner Co., 315 U. S. 685, asserting that
under its authority the men had been illegally discharged
and should be reinstated. In subsequent correspondence,
the Board suggested to the company that if it should later
be required to reinstate the discharged employees, it would
have only itself to blame, since it had voluntarily dispensed
with their services. It insisted that the company was
taking a needless risk of liability because if the Board
should hear charges and dismiss them, the men could then
be discharged, but if on the other hand, the Board should
sustain the complaint, the discharged employees "would
have retained their positions and your client would have
no further liability because of their wrongful discharge."
The Board's representative at that time wrote the company, "I again beseech you to return them to work pending a decision by the National Labor Relations Board on
this question."
It follows from what we have said that we affirm the
judgment of the court below approving the order of the
Board in its entirety.
Affirmed.
dissenting.
A more complete statement of the facts than is found
in the Court's opinion is necessary to disclose the reasons
why the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, and I dissent.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

The Wallace Manufacturing Company employs about
200 employees and makes clothespins and similar wood
products at Richwood, a small community in West Virginia. In July 1941 a union affiliated with the C. I. 0.,
which after the practice of the Court's opinion we will call
the C. I. 0., began to organize these employees, and the
Company engaged in counter measures. Without detailing the evidence or considering the merits of the Company's objections we will assume that the Company during
this period was guilty of unfair labor practices.
On September 25, the C. I. 0. called a strike. About
October 2, the Independent union, one of the petitioners
here, came into being. On October 10, 1941, the C. I. 0.
filed charges with the Labor Board, alleging among other
things that the Company had violated the Act by sponsoring the formation of the Independent. Again, without
weighing the evidence or the objections of the Company
or of the Independent, we will assume that the Company
was guilty.
On October 14, the Independent demanded recognition
as bargaining representative of the employees, and on
October 31, it filed with the Labor Board a petition for
investigation and certification of it as the representative
of the Company's employees.
The Board, however, did not proceed on either the complaint or the request for certification. Instead, as the
Government states, "During the ensuing two and onehalf months, representatives of petitioner [the company],
the Board, and the two unions engaged in negotiations
looking toward settlement of the entire controversy, including disposition of the Union's charge and the Independent's petition." Again, without considering the
Company's or the Independent's objection or evidence,
we will assume that during this two and a half months the
Company engaged in unfair labor practices. The strike
was proceeding, however, with much bitterness and some

WALLACE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
248

259

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

violence. On December 30, the strike then being in its
fourth month, the C. I. 0. by telegram offered, with the
approval of the Labor Board, to enter into a consent election "with you and your Company Union, on the condition that when we prove a majority and become the
exclusive bargaining agency for all your employees, that
as a condition of employment all eligible employees must
become members of Local Union 129, U. C. W. 0. C."
The closed-shop proposal was thus first brought forward
by the C. I. 0. On January 13, the C. I. 0. and the Independent and the Company signed an agreement that
the plant should be opened, that everyone should return
to work, that the Company would not in any way influence
its employees for or against either union, and that the
unions would not exercise any coercion. The Company
agreed to recognize as exclusive bargaining agent whichever union was proved by a vote conducted by the Board
to represent a majority of its employees and to start negotiations immediately after the result of the election
was determined and to grant a union shop. All parties
are agreed that they employed "union shop" as the equivalent of "closed shop." There is no finding and no evidence that at the time the company entered into this
obligation it had any foreknowledge as to which union
would win or what the practice of either as to admission
of members would be, nor is there any evidence that either
union had decided upon any policy in anticipation of
victory. There is no charge, no finding, and no evidence
that the Company has not performed its part of this agreement scrupulously.
The parties took this agreement to the office of the
Board's regional manager and on January 19 two agreements were drawn: one by which the C. I. 0. withdrew
the charges of domination and other charges; and the
other for a consent election to determine the employees'
choice of representative. Both of these agreements, after

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKsON, J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

signature by all the parties, were approved in writing by
the Regional Director, acting on behalf of the National
Labor Relations Board and with full knowledge of the
agreement that the Company would give to the winner a
closed shop.'
The employees, without distinction as to union affiliation, all returned to work. The election was held January 30, under the auspices of the Board. Of the 186 valid
votes cast, the Independent received 98, the C. I. 0. 83,
and 5 votes were cast for neither. The C. I. 0. filed no
objections, and the Board on February 4 certified the
Independent as the exclusive bargaining agent for the
employees in the plant.
Thereupon the Company bargained with the certified
representative, as it was required by law to do. The evidence is uncontradicted that the Company was reluctant
still to enter into a closed-shop agreement. The Independent, however, insisted that the Company perform the
contract by which the strike had been settled. It stated
its position in a letter in which it said: "The 'Closed Shop'
will, therefore, give us some control in preventing the hiring of additional employees who are unfavorable to our
interests and who would further jeopardize our majority.
It would also provide us with a legal means of disposing
of any present employees, including Harvey Dodrill whom
1 The Board has declared its policy with respect to consent elections

as follows: "However, the Board does not ordinarily order elections
in the presence of unremedied unfair labor practices, whether merely
alleged or already found by the Board, unless the labor organizatidn
which instituted the charges has agreed in advance that it will not
rely upon the unfair labor practices as a basis for objecting to the
conduct or results of the election. The Board orders an election only
when it is satisfied, after considering all evidence, respecting the
employer's compliance with a prior order concerning unfair labor
practices, that 'an election free from all employer compulsions, restraints and interference, can be held.'" Eighth Annual Report
(1943) 49.

WALLACE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
248

JAcKSON,

261

J., dissenting.

our members have declared by unanimous ballot that they
will not work with, whose presence in the plant is unfavorable to our interests because those who are so unfavorable
will not be permitted to become members of our organization and -without such membership they would not be
permitted to work in the plant under a closed shop contract
which we respectfully insist that we must have."
This is the first knowledge it is claimed the Company
had or should have had of the Independent's adoption of
an exclusionary policy toward its rivals. The Company
yielded, considering the union's membership policy as
something it could not interfere with, and the closed-shop
contract was signed. It required that all present and
future employees should become members of the Independent within ten days of the date of the contract or from
the date of hiring. The contract and notice of the closedshop arrangement were posted in the plant. On March
18, forty-three employees' were dismissed, on demand of
the Independent, as not eligible for employment because
of non-membership in it. Later it appeared that twelve
such dismissed employees never made application for
membership in the Independent, and thirty-one members
who had applied for membership had been rejected because when their applications came before the meeting in
regular course they did not receive the number of ballots
necessary under its by-laws to elect to membership.
Whether the Company knew that they had applied for
membership and had been rejected is disputed, but again
we resolve the doubt against the Company and assume
that the superintendent knew this fact at the time of
discharge.
There is no dispute, however, that when Mr. Wallace,
the president of the company, learned of the discharge
he attempted to persuade the Independent to allow these
employees to be reinstated. On March 20, 1942,.he wrote
to the business agent of the Independent a letter. The
Board has not found that it was not written in good faith.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

To the contrary, counsel for the Board with commendable
candor stated that there is no evidence and that he made
no contention that it was other than a good-faith statement of the Company's position. Among other things it
says, "When our Mr. Christmas talked to you on March
9th, you will recall that he appealed to you to see that
the closed shop clause, which your Union insisted be included in the working agreement, should not be used in
any way to unfairly prevent any person from working
who wanted to work. We realize, of course, that the contract does not give the Company the right to tell the
Union who to admit as members, and for that reason Mr.
Christmas' talk with you and mine over the telephone
could only be directed to the sense of fairness which we
believe exists in the minds of your members.
"Entirely aside from the fact that having to lay off this
large number of experienced people will badly cripple our
production which is urgently needed, we feel that it is
indeed a sad situation where, account of some individual
differences of opinion, people who have perhaps been
friends and neighbors for many years cannot work together. I will appreciate your advising me what can be
done."
The Regional Director of the Board was notified of the
discharges and, as the Court's opinion states, he did urge
the Company to disregard its closed-shop contract and
re-employ nonmembers of the certified union. The Company's counsel reminded him that he had expressed concern about the closed-shop provision to the Regional
Director when it was being negotiated, and that the Director had replied that he probably "would have to agree
to it as the C. I. 0. certainly would have insisted upon it
if they had prevailed in the election." The Company insisted that "membership in the union is beyond the Company's control" and that unless the union relented it would
stand by the closed-shop contract. The Company sug-

WALLACE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
248

263

JACxSoN, J., dissenting.

gested, however, to the Independent that it conduct interviews with those it had rejected and reconsider them
individually. The Union by unanimous vote rejected the
suggestion. The Regional Director of the Board also wrote
to the head of the Independent about the individuals discharged "because they were not members of your union.
It develops that your union is unwilling to accept them
into membership. I need not remind you of the seriousness of these charges." The Board representatives were
unable to persuade the union to accept the rejected members nor the Company to repudiate its agreement.
At the opening of the hearing before the examiner July
9, 1942, the Company declared it was "ready to take any
steps which are necessary to the end that these people
be put back to work, as it has been throughout, since this
agreement was entered into." It suggested that the attorney for the Board and the attorney for the Independent
work out a settlement. The Board's attorney expressed
"to the representative of the Company my thanks for the
suggestion." Adjournment was taken and counsel for the
union went from Summerville, the place of hearing, to
Richwood and called a meeting of the Independent
union. The Board attorney's objection kept further developments out of the record except that he stated, "I am
willing to let the record show that Mr. Ritchie [attorney
for the Independent] made me a proposition which I was
unable to accept and that I made him one which he was
unable to accept." The case therefore proceeded against
the Company.
The Board did not find any unfair labor practice on the
part of the Company between the date of the settlement
agreement and the election. In fact, it refused to accept
the recommendation of the trial examiner for such a finding, saying that "such interference, if any, was too trivial,"
was known to the C. I. 0., which made no objection to the
certification, and had come to the knowledge of the Re-

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
323 U. S.

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

gional Director prior to the election. "Nevertheless, he
proceeded with the election, found it to be a fair one, and

certified the Independent."
No unfair labor practices at any time after the settlement agreement are found or charged against the employer except the making and performing of the closedshop agreement. The Board states its position as follows:
"The issue remains whether, by entering into the closedshop contract with the Independent with knowledge that
the Independent intended to exclude employees from
membership and by discharging employees denied membership in the Independent, as set forth above, the respondent violated the Act. The respondent contends that
it was bound to enter into a closed-shop contract by the
terms of the election agreement between the respondent,
the Union, and the Independent, and urges the Board to
regard the discharges as proper since made pursuant to
the closed-shop contract.
"We do not agree. An employer may not enter into a
closed-shop contract which to his knowledge is designed
to operate as an instrument for effecting discrimination
against his employees solely because of their prior union
activities. The proviso in Section 8 (3) of the Act permits an employer to enter into an agreement with the
duly designated representative of his employees, requiring
membership in that organization as a condition of employment. It is true that under the terms of the election agreement the respondent was bound to execute a union-shop
contract with the victorious union. It by no means follows, however, that the respondent was also bound by the
election agreement to acquiesce in a scheme to penalize
employees whose choice of representatives was not that
of the majority; nor can the proviso in Section 8 (3) be
thought to countenance such a result. .

..

The facts in the case make it apparent that the
respondent [Company] was put on notice that its [Inde-

WALLACE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
248

JACKSON,

265

J., dissenting.

pendent's] real purpose was to bar from future employment with the respondent persons who had adhered to the
charging Union in the election campaign. While the
tripartite agreement of January 13, 1942, may have been
valid when made, performance of its terms did not require
the respondent knowingly to become a party to the Independent's plan to eliminate from respondent's pay roll
employees solely because of their past union activities.
On the contrary, when this unlawful scheme became known
to it, the respondent not only had a right to abrogate the
tripartite agreement, but also was under an affirmative
obligation to do so. . . . Under these circumstances, the
closed-shop agreement cannot be deemed a defense, but
a discriminatory device to insure perpetuation of the Independent and thus deprive employees of their statutory
right to select bargaining representatives."
Holding that execution and performance of the closedshop agreement after the settlement and certification by
the Board were "unfair labor practices," the Board held
them effective also to revive the old charges settled by the
agreements and election and it went back to those events
to find grounds on which to hold that the employer dominates the Independent.
Accordingly it ordered that the Company disestablish
and withdraw all recognition from the Independent as representative of any of its employees. It forbade "any continuation, renewal, or modification of the existing contract [which] would perpetuate the conditions which have
deprived employees" of their jobs; it ordered the Company to cease giving effect to any contract between it and
the Independent or to any modification or extension
thereof. It also ordered that the Company "offer the
aforesaid 43 employees immediate and full reinstatement
to their former or substantially equivalent positions, without prejudice to their seniority or other rights and privileges, and to make them whole for any loss of pay they
may have suffered."

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

The underlying question is, in the language of the
Board's brief, "Whether petitioner by entering into and
discharging employees pursuant to the terms of the closedshop contract with the Independent violated Section 8 (3)
and (1) of the Act." It is one of importance far beyond
this little company and its two hundred employees.
Section 8 (3) makes it an unfair labor practice for an
employer, by discrimination, to encourage or discourage
membership in any labor organization. If it ended there
it would of course outlaw any closed shop, for the very
essence of the closed shop is that the employer discriminates in employment to require membership in a particular
union. To validate discrimination in such circumstances
a proviso follows that no law of the United States "shall
preclude an employer from making an agreement with a
labor organization (not established, maintained, or assisted
by any action defined in this Act as an unfair labor practice) to require as a condition of employment membership
therein, if such labor organization is the representative of
the employees. .. ."
At the time this closed-shop agreement was made the
Board had certified the Independent as representative of
the employees. Under § 8 it would have been an unfair
labor practice had the Company refused to bargain with it.
The Board made the certification, without objection by
the defeated C. I. 0. and with full knowledge that the
Company was bound in law and in good faith to give the
certified union a closed-shop contract. We do not say,
and it is not necessary now to decide, that the Board
has no power to protect minorities at this stage of the
proceedings. We do not mean to preclude the power of
the Board, when the contract settling the strike, withdrawing charges against the company, and consenting to an
election with a closed shop to the winner was brought to
the Board, to have refused to dismiss charges and undertake an election unless each union agreed that, if it won

WALLACE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
248

JACKSON,

267

J., dissenting.

a closed shop, it would open the union to membership
from the losers on terms the Board deemed fair. Since no
one could tell who would win, this would in any event
have been an impartial arrangement. Even after the Independent won, the Board before certifying it might perhaps properly have made conditions as to reasonable terms
to the defeated. But the Board made no conditions or
reservations of the sort. Instead, it takes the position,
and the Court is holding, that such conditions must be imposed on the union by the employer. He must see that
the union with which he has been ordered to bargain makes
proper terms for admission into that certified union of its
former enemies and rivals. We think that the decision to
that effect is not only unauthorized by Congress, but is
utterly at war with the hands-off requirements which the
law lays upon the employer, and that this decision is at
war with one of the basic purposes of labor in its struggle
to obtain this Act and of Congress in enacting it.
Of course the closed shop is well known in labor relations. Its essential philosophy is that once the employees
have chosen their representative union, it is entitled to
bargain for the employer's help to maintain its control.
Other employer aids to a dominant union, such as the
check-off, are also conceded to unions by bargaining on
behalf of a majority when they would not be at all permissible for the employer to use in the first place to influence the workmen to choose a particular union because he
favored it. But the idea of the closed shop is that, while
these acts of influence or pressure on workmen are unfair
when exerted by the employer in his own interest, they are
fair and lawful when enforced by him as an instrument of
the union itself. A closed shop is the ultimate goal of
most union endeavor, and not a few employers have found
it a stabilizer of labor relations by putting out of their
shops men who were antagonistic to the dominant union,
thus ending strife for domination. It puts the employ-

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

ment office under a veto of the union, which uses its own
membership standards as a basis on which to exclude men
from employment.
Neither the National Labor Relations Act nor any other
Act of Congress expressly or by implication gives to the
Board any power to supervise union membership or to deal
with union practices, however unfair they may be to members, to applicants, to minorities, to other unions, or to
employers. This may or may not have been a mistake,
but it was no oversight. We suppose that there is no
right which organized labor of every .shade of opinion
in other matters would unite more strongly in demanding
than the right of each union to control its own admissions
to membership. Each union has insisted on its freedom to
fix its own qualifications of applicants, to determine the
vote by which individual admissions will be granted, to
prescribe the initiation or admission fees, to fix the dues,
to prescribe the duties to which members must be faithful
and to decide when and why they may be expelled or disciplined. The exclusion of those whose loyalty is to a
rival union or hostile organization is one of the most common and most understandable of practices, designed to
defend the union against undermining, spying, and discord, and possible capture and delivery over to a rival.
Some unions have battled to exclude Communists, some
racketeers, and all to exclude those deemed disloyal to
their purposes. See Williams v. Quill, 277 N. Y. 1, 7,
12 N. E. 2d 547; Miller v. Ruehl, 166 Misc. 479, 2 N. Y. S.
2d 394.
There are those who think that the time has come when
unions should be denied this control over their own affairs.
However this may be, we only know that Congress has
included no such principle expressly in the Act. If the
Board should attempt to exercise it as we have suggested
by way of a condition on its conducting an election or
making a certification, a question of its statutory power

WALLACE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
248

269

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

to do so might arise, on which we express no opinion. It
would at least be a forthright exercise of power over the
unions by the Board itself acting in the public interest
and would not require an employer to engage in interference with union affairs in direct violation of the
Act.
But the Court is deciding not only that without authority of Congress the admission practices of a labor organization having a closed shop may be policed, but also,
contrary as we think to the Act, that the employer is empowered and required to do the policing. This we think
defies both the express terms and the philosophy of the
Act. The letter of the Act makes it a forbidden practice
for an employer to "interfere with" or "restrain" employees in the "right to self-organization." We assume
this employer knew the Independent would exercise its
power over admission privileges to some extent to protect
itself against infiltration of hostile elements. The Board
must have known it, too. And both must have known the
C. I. 0. would, also, if it won. However, the Independent
has not indiscriminately excluded all who were against it
in the election. The C. I. 0. had 83 votes; all but 43 of
these voters seem to have been admitted to the Independent, and 12 of those never applied, making 31 apparently
rejected. In view of the bitterness and duration of the
strike, involving some shooting, it is not strange that good
will did not descend on the victors at once. The Board
may have expected more moderation when it conducted
the consent election and certified the Independent. There
is nothing to show that the Company 'did not, too. When
it was found how harshly the Independent had behaved,
the Company did try persuasion to get the union leaders
to relent--the Company's own interests were to get back
more of its experienced employees. How it could have
done more without breaking both faith and the law, the
Court does not point out, and we do not know.

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

Of course, if the employer in a closed shop is to be responsible for the discriminations or unfairness of the
union, he must have a right to be informed about its admissions. If, in collective bargaining, a union asked a
closed shop, the employer would have to demand to know
the rules and practices about admission, the fees, the bylaws, the method of electing members. If he should demand this as a condition of collective bargaining, we should
expect the Board to hold him guilty of unfair practices,
and we have no doubt it would ask this Court to sustain it.
Yet here the sole ground of penalizing this employer is that
he did not do just that. Should the employer have made
the union admit all of its former enemies? If not, by
what standard could he allow it to select? Must it also
be made to admit even those who would not sign applications or pay initiation fees claimed to be too onerous? The
employer is required to reinstate with back pay a dozen
who never even asked to join the certified union. But
neither the Court nor the Board says what the employer
should have required the union to adopt as an admission
policy.
The statute expressly permits a closed shop. It can be
denied only when the certified union is "established, maintained, or assisted" by unfair labor practices of the employer. But the statute cannot mean that the making
and performance of a closed-shop contract in itself is an
unfair practice which invalidates a closed shop. To so interpret it would be to believe the Congress by this provision was perpetrating a hoax. But if it means that the
union can have a closed shop and the employer will supervise its membership, it is a strange contradiction in an Act
whose chief purpose was to sterilize the employers and to
free workmen of the influence they exerted through control of the right to work.
We can quite understand, and we do not mean to criticize, the motives which animated the Board. We are deal-

WALLACE CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
248

271

JACkSOn, J., dissenting.

ing here with an industry located in a small community
where opportunities for other employment are probably
not plentiful. It is not unlikely that denial of the right
to work for this company will keep these men from earning a livelihood in a place they long have lived. In so far
as the Board has been stirred by concern for individual and
minority protection against arbitrary union action, we
both understand and sympathize with their concern. The
employer is the only one it can lay hands on, and the temptation is great to use him to protect minority rights in the
labor movement. This and the other cases before us give
ground for belief that the labor movement in the United
States is passing into a new phase. The struggle of the
unions for recognition and rights to bargain, and of workmen for the right to join without interference, seems to
be culminating in a victory for labor forces. We appear
now to be entering the phase of struggle to reconcile the
rights of individuals and minorities with the power of those
who control collective bargaining groups. We have
joined in the opinion in Steele v. Louisville & Nashville R.
Co., ante, p. 192. That case arose under the Railway
Labor Act, which contains no authorization whatever for
a closed shop, on the contrary forbids the discrimination
underlying the adoption of a closed shop, and deals with
an industry and a labor group which never has had or
sought a closed shop, But here we deal with a minority
which the statute has subjected to closed-shop practices.
Whether the closed shop, with or without the closed union,
should or should not be permitted without supervision is
in the domain of policy-making, which it is not for this
Court to undertake. Neither do we find any authority
in the National Labor Relations Board to undertake it.
It happens to be an independent that won here. But
counsel for the Board assured us on argument that this
is not a one-way policy to require independent unions
to admit their enemies. It would, as we understand it,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

have been applied in the same manner if the C. I. 0.
had won and had excluded some Independent memberson suspicion, perhaps, that they were company spies.
The obstacle that this decision will interpose to all
future bargaining for closed shops is likely to be felt by
C. I. 0. and A. F. of L. unions many times as often as
by independents.
Of course it is the employer who is penalized here, and
on shallow and superficial examination it may seem like
another victory for labor. The employer must pay many
thousands of dollars for hours unworked, because it performed reluctantly but in good faith its closed-shop
agreement made under authority of Congress and with
knowledge and encouragement of the Board, and with
the approval and instigation of the C. I. 0. union whose
members now gain back pay by its repudiation. We think
this cannot be justified as an unfair labor practice outlawed by Congress. That resistance to closed-shop unions
will likely be stiffened if employers must underwrite the
fairness of closed-shop unions to applicants and members,
and that a good deal labor has fought for may be jeopardized if the price of obtaining it is to have the union
policed by the employer, are considerations beyond our
concern. We can only view this as a very unfair construction of the statute to the employer and one not warranted
by anything Congress has directed or authorized.

