UNITED STATES v. WADDILL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. WADDILL, HOLLAND &
FLINN, INC. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO TIE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 65. Argued November 10, 1944.-Decided January 2, 1945.
1. Under R. S. § 3466, claims of the United States against an insolvent
debtor who has made an assignment for the benefit of creditors,
held entitled to priority over liens here asserted under Virginia
law by a landlord for rent and by a municipality for taxes. P. 355.
2. Whether a lien created by state statute is of such character as to
bring it within a claimed exception to the priority of the United
States under R. S. § 3466 is a federal question. P. 356.
182 Va. 351, 28 S. E. 2d 741, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

322 U. S. 722, to review the affirmance of

a decree determining the priority of payment of claims
of creditors.
Mr. Paul A. Sweeney, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Shea and Mr. Walter J.
Cummings, Jr. were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Rutledge C. Clement for Waddill, Holland & Flinn,
Inc., respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The issue here is whether, in a state proceeding under
a general assignment for benefit of creditors, Section 3466
of the Revised Statutes, 31 U. S. C. § 191, gives priority
to a claim of the United States over a landlord's lien and
a municipal tax lien.
Mrs. Oeland Roman, the assignor, operated a restaurant
in Danville, Virginia, on premises leased from respondent
Waddill, Holland& Flinn, Inc. On June 19, 1941, she
executed a general deed of assignment to a trustee for

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

the benefit of creditors, specifically conveying all personal
property, fixtures and equipment used by her in the conduct of the restaurant and located on the premises. This
property remained on the premises until sold by the
trustee on July 12, 1941. After deduction of appropriate
administrative expenses, a sum of $1,407.29 remained.
Four creditors claimed priority of payment from this
amount.
(1) The United States claimed the sum of $1,559.63,
plus interest, representing certain unpaid federal unemployment compensation taxes and a debt arising out of a
Federal Housing Administration transaction.
(2) The Virginia Cnemployment Compensation Commission made a tax claim of $66.38, plus interest. The
Commission's claim, however, was conceded to be subordinate to that of the United States and need not be further considered here.
(3) The City of Danville claimed $300.55 as personal
property taxes still unpaid. On July 2,1941, the City Collector distrained on all of the property on the leased
premises.
(4) The landlord, Waddill, Holland & Flinn, Inc.,
claimed $1,500.00 for six months' rent due and to become
due. The assignor's lease from this firm ran for five years
beginning January 1, 1937, at a monthly rental of $250.00.
On July 1, 1941, twelve days after the deed of assignment
was executed, the firm obtained the issuance of a distress
warrant for 3 2/5 months' past due rent and an attachment for 2 3/5 months' future installments of rent. On
the same day, the firm levied the warrant and attachment
on the assignor's property located on the leased premises.
The trustee under the general assignment filed a petition
in the Corporation Court of Danville, reciting the various
claims and requesting advice as to the proper distribution.
That court held that the landlord was entitled to priority
in payment over the claims of the United States and the

UNITED STATES v. WADDILL CO.
353

Opinion of the Court.

Virginia Unemployment Compensation Commission but
that its claim was subordinate to that of the City of Danville for taxes in the sum of $222.31. On appeal by the
United States, the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia
affirmed this order of distribution. 182 Va. 351, 28 S. E.
2d 741. We granted certiorari because of the importance
of the problems raised and because of asserted conflict with
this Court's decisions in New York v. Maclay, 288 U. S.
290, and United States v. Texas, 314 U. S. 480.
Section 3466 of the Revised Statutes provides in pertinent part that "the debts due to the United States shall be
first satisfied" whenever any person indebted to the United
States is insolvent or, "not having sufficient property to
pay all his debts, makes a voluntary assignment thereof."
We hold that this statute clearly subordinates the claims
of both the landlord and the municipality to that of the
United States. The judgment of the court below must
accordingly be reversed.
The words of § 3466 are broad and sweeping and, on
their face, admit of no exception to the priority of claims
of the United States. Thelusson v. Smith, 2 Wheat. 396,
425; United States v. Texas, supra, 484. But this Court
in the past has recognized that certain exceptions could be
read into this statute. The question has not been expressly decided, however, as to whether the priority of the
United States might be defeated by a specific and perfected
lien upon the property at the time of the insolvency or
voluntary assignment. Conardv. Atlantic Insurance Co.,
1 Pet. 386, 441, 444; Brent v. Bank of Washington, 10 Pet.
596, 611, 612; Spokane County v. United States, 279 U. S.
80, 95; United States v. Knott, 298 U. S. 544, 551; New
York v. Maclay, supra, 293, 294; United States v. Texas,
supra,485, 486. It is within this suggested exception that
the landlord and the municipality seek to bring themselves.
Once again, however, we do not reach a decision as to
whether such an exception is permissible for we do not

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

believe that the asserted liens of the landlord and the
municipality were sufficiently specific and perfected on the
date of the voluntary assignment to cast any serious doubt
on the priority of the claim of the United States.
The landlord rests its claim upon certain provisions of
the Virginia Code of 1936. Sections 5519 and 5523 authorize a landlord to levy distress for six months' rent upon
"any goods of the lessee . . . found on the premises, or
which may have been removed therefrom not more than
thirty days. . . . for not more than six months' rent if
the premises are in a city or town." Section 5524 provides that the goods of the tenant on leased premises in
a city or town may not be removed by a lienor or purchaser, nor taken under legal process, save "on the terms
of paying to the person entitled to the rent so much as is
in arrear, and securing to him so much as is to become
due," not to exceed six months' rent. Other sections provide for officers making the distress under warrant from
a justice, founded upon an affidavit of the person claiming
the rent, and for such officers to make returns of their
actions and proceedings upon such warrants. Provisions
are also made for legal proceedings looking toward the
possession and sale of the property to satisfy the debt.
The Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia has here held
that these sections "give the landlord a lien which is fixed
and specific, and not one which is merely inchoate, and
that such a lien exists independent of the right of distress
or attachment, which are merely remedies for enforcing
it." 182 Va. at 363, 28 S. E. 2d at 746. It has also held
that such a lien "relates back to the beginning of the tenancy," 182 Va. at 364, 28 S. E. 2d at 746, thus giving it
force and effect on date of the voluntary assignment.
These interpretations of the Virginia statutes, as propositions of state law, are binding. But it is a matter of federal law as to whether a lien created by state statute is
sufficiently specific and perfected to raise questions as to

UNITED STATES v. WADDILL CO.
353

Opinion of the Court.

the applicability of the priority given the claims of the
United States by an act of Congress. If the priority of
the United States is ever to be displaced by a local statutory lien, federal courts must be free to examine the lien's
actual legal effect upon the parties. A state court's characterization of a lien as specific and perfected, however
conclusive as a matter of state law, cannot operate by
itself to impair or supersede a long-standing Congressional
declaration of priority. Field v. United States, 9 Pet. 182,
201; United States v. Oklahoma, 261 U. S. 253, 260;
Spokane County v. United States, supra, 90.
Tested by its legal effect under Virginia law, the landlord's lien in this instance appeared to serve "merely as a
caveat of a more perfect lien to come." New York v.
Maclay, supra, 294. As of the date of the voluntary assignment, it was neither specific nor perfected. It gave
the landlord only a general power over unspecified property rather than an actual interest in a definitive portion
or portions thereof.
Specificity was clearly lacking as to the lien on June
19, 1941, the date of the assignment. On that day it was
still uncertain whether the landlord would ever assert and
insist upon its statutory lien. Until that was done it was
impossible to determine the particular six months' rent,
or a proportion thereof, upon which the lien was based.
The lien did not relate to any particular six months' rent
but could attach only for the rent which might be due at
or after the time when the lien was asserted. Wades v.
Figgatt,75 Va. 575, 582. And if it were asserted at a time
when the tenancy had terminated or would terminate
within six months of the date to which rent had been fully
paid, the lien could only cover less than six months' rent.
Conceivably the amount of rent due or to become due was
uncertain on the day of the assignment. The landlord may
have been mistaken as to the rental rate or as to payments
previously made and the tenant may have been entitled

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

to a set-off. See Allen v. Hart, 18 Gratt. (59 Va.) 722,
737; Hancock v. Whitehall Tobacco Co., 100 Va. 443, 447,
41 S. E. 860. Moreover, while the lien legally attached to
all such property as might be on the premises when the lien
was asserted or within thirty days prior to distraint, the
landlord could distrain goods only to the extent necessary
to satisfy the rent justly believed to be due, the tenant possessing an action for damages for excessive distraint. Va.
Code § 5783; Fishburnev. Engledove, 91 Va. 548, 22 S. E.
354; Gurfein v. Howell, 142 Va. 197, 128 S. E. 644. Thus
until the extent of the lien was made known by the landlord and until some steps had been taken to distrain or
attach sufficient property to satisfy the lien, it was impossible to specify the goods actually and properly subject
to the lien. Some of the goods on the premises may have
been subject to mortgages or liens which attached before
the goods were brought on the premises, in which case the
landlord's lien would be inferior. Va. Code § 5523. And if
other goods were removed after the date of the voluntary
assignment but more than thirty days before the distraint or attachment, the right of distraint and attachment as to those goods would disappear. Va. Code § 5523;
Dime Deposit Bank v. Wescott, 113 Va. 567, 75 S. E. 179.
These factors compel the conclusion that neither the rent
secured by the lien nor the property subject to the lien was
sufficiently specific and ascertainable on the day of the
voluntary assignment to fall within the terms of the suggested exception.
Nor was the statutory lien perfected as a matter of
actual fact, regardless of how complete it may have been as
a matter of state law. The tenant was divested of neither
title nor possession by the silent existence of the landlord's
statutory lien on the date of the assignment. Only after
the lien was actually asserted and an attachment or a
distraint leveled, enabling the landlord to satisfy his claim
out of the seized goods, could it be argued that such goods

UNITED STATES v. WADDILL CO.
353

Opinion of the Court.

severed themselves from the general and free assets of the
tenant from which the claims of the United States were
entitled to priority of payment. Prior to that time, the lien
operated to do no more than prevent the removal of goods
from the premises by certain classes of persons, Va. Code
§ 5524, and give the landlord priority in distribution under
state law provided that the goods remained on the premises. Such a potential, inchoate lien could not disturb the
clear command of § 3466 of the Revised Statutes. Something more than a "caveat of a more perfect lien to come'
was necessary.
The lien of the City of Danville stands in no better position insofar as the claim of the United States is concerned. The municipality contends that it assessed taxes
on specific items of furniture and equipment pursuant
to annual levies made by the city council and that a lien
attached to such property on January 1, 1941, by operation of state law. It claims that this lien attached before
the claim of the United States was acquired and hence
had priority.
Under Virginia law, however, a municipal tax confers a
lien on personal property which enables the city to follow it wherever it may be taken only if the assessment is
specifically made on such property. Drewry v. Baugh &
Sons, 150 Va. 394, 400, 401, 143 S.E. 713; Chambers v.
Higgins, 169 Va. 345, 351, 352, 193 S.E. 531. The Corporation Court of Danville recognized that the city had
not made such an assessment in this case since it held that
assessment of the furniture and equipment as a unit was
sufficient to satisfy this rule "so long as they remained on
the premises where the owner's business was conducted."
It realized that if this property unit were separated or
removed from the premises different results would follow.
Unless and until distraint was levied, which in this case
occurred thirteen days after the voluntary assignment, it
was uncertain whether the furniture and equipment would
remain intact as a unit on the premises and hence be sub-

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

323 Ui. S.

ject to the tax lien. If such property had been removed,
distraint could then have been levied on other undetermined property of the tenant. At least until actual distraint, therefore, there was no certainty as to the property
subject to the lien and no transfer of title or possession
relative to any property. Such a lien cannot be said to
be so explicit and perfected on the date of the voluntary
assignment as to fall within the claimed exception to the
priority of the United States.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON is of opinion that the judgment
should be affirmed for the reasons stated by the Supreme
Couxt of Appeals of Virginia.

UNITED STATES v. ROSENWASSER, DOING BUSINESS
AS PERFECT GARMENT CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 106. Argued December 12, 1944.-Decided January 2, 1945.
The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 is applicable to employees
compensated on a piece rate basis, and employers of such employees
are subject to the criminal provisions of the Act. P. 361.
Reversed.

APPEAL under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment sustaining a demurrer as to certain counts of an information charging violations of the Fair Labor Standards
Act.
Mr. Ralph F. Fuchs, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Messrs. Douglas B. Maggs, Joseph I. Nachman, and Miss
Bessie Margolin were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Victor Behrstock submitted for appellee.

