UNITED STATES v. TOWNSLEY.
516

Counsel for Parties.

requiring him to identify himself as what he is,--a
paid solicitor.
We may deem the statutory provision under review
unnecessary or unwise, but it is not our function as
judges to read our views of policy into a Constitutional
guarantee, in order to overthrow a state policy we do
not personally approve, by denominating that policy a
violation of the liberty of speech. The judgment should
be affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE REED and
JUSTICE FRANKFURTER join in this opinion.

MR.

UNITED STATES v. TOWNSLEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 134.

Argued December 12, 1944.-Decided January 15, 1945.

1. Section 23 of the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1935, so
far as it provides for overtime compensation for services in excess
of 40 hours per week, applies to Government employees of the
Panama Canal whose compensation is fixed on a monthly basis.
P. 565.
2. In the case of an employee whose normal work week was six 8-hour
days, overtime compensation was properly computed by multiplying the employee's monthly salary by twelve and dividing the result by fifty-two to ascertain his weekly salary; then dividing the
weekly salary by five to obtain his pay for an 8-hour day; and then
multiplying the number of weeks in which he had worked a sixth
day by the daily wage plus one-half. P. 573.
101 Ct. Cls. 237, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 686, to review a judgment for the
plaintiff in a suit to recover overtime compensation.

Mr. Enoch E. Ellison, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Shea, and Mr. Julian
R. Wilheim were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Herman J. Galloway, with whom Mr. Fred W.
Shields was on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The parties agree that the principal question presented
is whether Section 23 of the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1935,' in so far as it provides for overtime
compensation for services in excess of 40 hours per week,
applies to Government employes of the Canal Zone whose
compensation is fixed on a monthly basis. The Court of
Claims answered in the affirmative.' If we take the
same view, a subsidiary inquiry is whether that court
adopted the right method for calculating the overtime
compensation.
The section, in full, is:
"The weekly compensation, minus any general percentage reduction which may be prescribed by Act of Congress,
for the several trades and occupations, which is set by
wage boards or other wage-fixing authorities, shall be reestablished and maintained at rates not lower than necessary to restore the full weekly earnings of such employees
in accordance with the full-time weekly earnings under
the respective wage schedules in effect on June 1, 1932:
Provided, That the regular hours of labor shall not be
more than forty per week; and all overtime shall be compensated for at the rate of not less than time and one
half."
Between March 28, 1934, and August 31, 1939, the respondent was employed by the Panama Canal successively
as operator, chief operator, and master of a dredge, and
was paid on a monthly basis at rates fixed by the Governor
of the Canal Zone upon recommendation of a wage board.
The respondent's normal work week consisted of six
8-hour days. He retired August 29,1939, and then, for the
'Act of March 28, 1934, c. 102, 48 Stat. 522; 5 U. S. C. 673c.
2 101 Ct. Cls. 237.

UNITED STATES v. TOWNSLEY.
557

Opinion of the Court.

first time, asserted that under the Act he was entitled to
compensation at the rate of time and one-half for all hours
worked in excess of 40 per week. In prosecution of his
claim he instituted this suit March 14, 1940.
The Court of Claims held that he was engaged in one
of the "trades and occupations" whose compensation "is
set by wage boards or other wage-fixing authorities" covered by the Act. We think this conclusion is right and
do not understand the petitioner now to contest it. The
court further held that the statute embraced those employes of the Canal Zone whose wages are paid on a
monthly basis. This the Government contests, relying
on the words of the Act, on administrative practice
and on legislative history. A statement of the background of the legislation and its application seems
necessary to decision.
In 1923 Congress adopted the "Classification Act" s
classifying the employment and fixing the compensation
for different classes of employes of certain departments
of the Government. It excluded from the terms of the Act
certain occupations, including apprentices, helpers or
journeymen in a recognized trade or craft and skilled or
semi-skilled laborers, among others. Admittedly, certain
employes of the Panama Canal, including the respondent,
were not covered by this Act. Their compensation was
to be fixed by the President, or by his authority, under
the Act of August 24, 1912;' specifically it was set by the
Governor of the Panama Canal on the advice of a wage
board.
The Act of March 28, 1934, with which we are here concerned, was the last of the so-called Economy Acts intended to decrease expenses by reduction of compensation
3 42
4 c.

Stat. 1488 (5 U. S. C. 661, et seq.).
390, 37 Stat. 561, 48 U. S. C. 1305.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

and suspension of privileges of federal employes. By the
first such Act, approved June 30, 1932,1 a regular schedule
of reduction of salaries, by a system of furloughs or
reduction of the work week, was established.
By the Act of March 20, 1933,6 Congress superseded the
furlough system and provided for a reduction, not to exceed 15%, in the compensation of all employes. By the
Act of March 28, 1934, this reduction was cut to 10% for
a portion of the fiscal year 1934, and to 5% for the fiscal
year 1935. Possible reductions in compensation imposed
on federal employes were not, however, limited to those
prescribed in the cited statutes. Men were discharged and
rehired in lower classifications at the lower wages applicable and were furloughed without pay, in order to keep
within appropriations.
When the bill which became the Act of March 28, 1934
was under consideration, a representative of a labor organization appeared before a subcommittee of the Senate
Committee on Appropriations and advocated legislation
to prohibit certain discriminatory reductions in the wages
of per diem Navy Yard workers. He pointed to the continuance of the practice of furloughing them one day in
each two weeks, thus reducing the hours worked to 40 per
week, and showed that this, in addition to the 15% reduction of pay required by the economy act then in force,
actually cut their base pay over 22%. He also complained
of other practices which had the effect of reducing their
compensation. He expressed the fear that if Congress
abolished the 15% level cut, wage boards would at once
take action to reduce existing wage scales. He proposed a
provision which would prohibit reduction of wages below
the wage scales which were in effect June 1, 1932, but sug547 Stat. 382.
648 Stat. 8, 13.

UNITED STATES v. TOWNSLEY.
557

Opinion of the Court.

gested no provision concerning hours of work or overtime
pay. The draft he submitted was not embodied in the bill
as reported.
Senator Thomas offered the present § 23 on the floor of
the Senate, stating merely 7 "this amendment is offered to
help the employees in the navy yards, the arsenals, the
Panama Canal Zone, the Government Printing Office; and
the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. It simply proposes to put them back on the same status they occupied
in July of 1932 . . . the amendment adopted this afternoon restores their pay cut, it is true, provided that
amendment remains in the law. This amendment proposes to give the employees of these several bureaus an
increase in their pay even though they do not have to work
an increased number of hours. At the present time they
work 40 hours and get 44 hours' pay. Under the amendment it is possible that the board that has control of these
employees will let them work 40 hours and they will possibly get 48 hours' pay, provided they get an increase of
their hourly pay."
The amendment was adopted without further reference
to it in either House of Congress. The President vetoed
the bill, which was passed over his veto. On that occasion
a Senator inquired whether certain language in the President's veto message referred to the provisions of § 23 and
the reply wasthat the Senator interrogated did not know
whether this was so. We shall shortly see that the section
did substantially more than Senator Thomas stated in his
brief explanation.
Prior to the effective date of the Act, the respondent's
regular hours of work were 48 per week, though he was
often required to work 52. Shortly after § 23 became law,
the Governor of the Panama Canal requested the Comp7 78 Cong. Rec. 2977.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

troller General to decide whether the section applied to
employes of the Canal and whether it required payment
of overtime to certain classes of employes, including the
class to which respondent belonged. The Comptroller
General ruled that the section was applicable to employes paid by the month as well as to those paid by the
hour.' He did not directly rule on the right of monthly
employes to be paid for overtime but his opinion indicates
the view that they were not to be so paid since he stated:
"... no change in the monthly or annual rate of compensation other than that required to pay a rate not lower
than the rate per annum or per month paid June 1, 1932,
less any applicable percentage reductions, would be authorized. That is to say, they are to receive the same
monthly or annual compensation although their regular
hours of duty may be reduced."
Notwithstanding this ruling, the Governor attempted to
reduce the monthly employes' compensation by putting
them on an hourly basis. This he did by dividing the
monthly salary paid June 1, 1932, by 224, the number of
hours he estimated they worked per month made up of
eight hours per day for six days per week, sixteen hours
per month for occasional overtime and an allowance for
occasional work on Sundays and holidays. This computation showed they had been worked 52 hours per week.
Having thus ascertained what he deemed their hourly
wages, he added 20% to the hourly wage, so that they
would receive the same amount for a 40-hour week as
they would theretofore have received for a 48-hour week,
despite the fact that they had been working and had been
paid for more than 48 hours according to his computation of their prior hourly earnings. The net result was
substantially to reduce their monthly earnings. After
complaint by the employes, the Governor submitted
8 See

14 Comp. Gen. 158.

UNITED STATES v. TOWNSLEY.
557

Opinion of the Court.

his action to the Comptroller General and requested
reconsideration of the earlier decision.' That official
reaffirmed his prior decision and disapproved the recomputation of monthly wages which the Governor had
adopted. He ruled that the proper procedure was "to
continue the payment of the same monthly rates of bompensation even though there may have been a reduction
in the number of hours per week and no overtime compensation is authorized," and added that "This is the
general rule that has been adopted under the 40-hour week
statutory provision for all employees paid on a monthly or
annual basis." The Governor's submission and the
Comptroller General's ruling make it clear that both
understood that employes paid on a monthly basis could
not be regularly worked more than 40 hours a week.
Several passages in his decisions also indicate that the
Comptroller General was of opinion that monthly employes should not be paid overtime. The rulings were
definitely that employes whose weekly wages would be
reduced by reducing their work hours must have those
wages restored to the 1932 wage level, and that employes
who had not had their weekly wages cut because they were
paid by the month and were worked 52 hours per week
should not have their wages cut as a result of § 23 by the
reduction of their work week to 40 hours.
Apparently relying on the Comptroller General's statement that employes on a monthly wage basis were not entitled to overtime, the Governor continued to work the
respondent 48 hours a week but paid him no overtime.
This in spite of his knowledge that the 40-hour week
limitation was also applicable to the respondent if
other parts of § 23 were so applicable. In his second submission to the Comptroller General he stated his understanding of the latter's decision that monthly employes
9 See 14 Comp. Gen. 165.

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

could not be worked more than 40 hours a week. There
is no evidence that the question of the legality of working
the respondent overtime without paying him for it was
ever submitted to the Comptroller General.
It seems evident that the Governor's action cannot be
justified. If § 23 applied in the case of the respondent, his
work week should have been 40 hours. If, in spite of
§ 23, his monthly stipend covered every day and every
hour of the month whether service was rendered or not, as
the Comptroller General had said, so that respondent
could not be paid for overtime, then he should not have
been regularly worked overtime.
With this outline of the situation, we are brought to a
consideration of the Government's contention that § 23
has no application to the respondent's compensation.
We turn first to the suggestion that the expressions
"weekly compensation" and "weekly earnings" control all
of the provisions of the section and that hence both the
affirmative provisions and the prohibition contained in
the proviso apply only to those employes who receive
weekly wages. As the record, however, fails to indicate
that any of the Government employes were paid by the
week, it is said that the term "weekly" was used as a
method of adjusting the wages of per hour or per diem
employes because a 40-hour work week could easily be
calculated in their case as the measure of weekly work
and compensation whereas it could not so readily be applied to monthly employes. But we think this suggestion
does not comport either with the provisions or the obvious purpose of the legislation. The section commanded
not only that wages reduced as a result of furloughs and
uncompensated overtime should be reestablished but also
that, for the future, such wages should be maintained at
the June 1, 1932, level, subject only to the applicable percentage reductions provided by the Economy Acts. It
sought to forbid indirect reduction of wages by the pro-

UNITED STATES v. TOWNSLEY.
557

Opinion of the Court.

vision that a work week should consist of 40 hours and
that overtime, at one and one-half the regular hourly pay,
should be paid for any hours worked beyond that weekly
limit. As the test of what should constitute overtime was
more conveniently calculated by using a work week, and
the hours worked during any week, it was quite natural
that Congress should use the phrases "weekly compensation" and "weekly earnings" in setting a floor under
wages."0
If the Government is right, § 23 had no application to
respondent and those in like case and-the Governor could
have maintained a 52-hour work week at the old rate of
pay or could have cut the work week with a corresponding reduction in pay. The result would be, as the court
below pointed out, that an Act of Congress, on its face
applicable to all employes, including monthly employes,
which declared that the weekly wages of employes "shall
be reestablished and maintained at rates not lower than"
the 1932 rate would for the first time have authorized the
cutting of the wages of monthly employes below the 1932
level while the wages of all others were being restored
to that level. As we have seen, the Comptroller General
ruled that such a cut in respondent's pay was "in contravention of the plain terms of the statute."
We are clear that the Comptroller General was right in
ruling that the statute applied not only to per diem or
hourly employes but also to employes paid on a monthly
basis, such as respondent, whose compensation was fixed
by a wage board. We are also clear that, on the face of
the statute, if the Governor, in the teeth of the statutory
provision, worked such employees more than 40 hours
a week, the overtime provision of § 23 required payment
10Compare Overnight Motor Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S. 572; Walling
v. Helmerich & Payne, 323 U. S. 37; St. John v. Brown, 38 F. Supp.
385; Allen v. Moe, 39 F. Supp. 5; Nelson v. St. Joseph & G. I. R. Co.,
199 Mo. App. 635, 205 S. W. 870.

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

at one and one-half straight time pay for the extra hours
worked.
The Government seeks to avoid such a construction of
the Act by invoking asserted administrative practice and
legislative history. It relies heavily on the statement
made to the subcommittee, to which we have heretofore
referred. With respect to this statement, we think it
enough to say that the spokesman was complaining about
discriminations against employes paid by the day or the
hour but he nowhere suggests the propriety of distinguishing between such employes and those paid on a monthly
basis but worked more than 40 hours per week. He
advocates setting the June 1, 1932, standard as a minimum subject only to percentage reductions provided by
the Economy Act. He envisages the fact that if the
work week is reduced to 40 hours and the June 1932
standard is thus reestablished, the result will be an increase in wages to the employes concerned. The considerations of equity on which he relies apply quite as
much to employes paid by the month as to those paid
by the day or hour. Moreover, as above stated, the draft
he submitted was not adopted. On the contrary, one
differently worded became § 23 of the statute.
The Government next relies on the fact that, prior to the
adoption of § 23, no overtime was paid to employes who
were on a monthly or annual basis. But, as we shall see,
the full application of the principle of a work week limited
to specified hours, and payment of overtime for extra
hours, was gradually adopted by the Congress, and the
fact that the old practice was abolished piecemeal can
have little weight in determining whether, as respects the
employes embraced in its terms, § 23 abolished the distinction amongst those embraced in trades and occupations whose compensation was fixed by wage boards.
Moreover, the section essayed to deal only with a special
class of employes whose working conditions are more

UNITED STATES v. TOWNSLEY.
557

Opinion of the Court.

nearly comparable to those of men employed in private
industry. They may, therefore, have been valid reason
for establishing, as respects all of these employes, a different rule from that generally followed in Government
departments.
The Government also relies on the prior practice in the
Canal Zone, but we think this inconclusive. By the Act
of August 24, 1912,11 the President was empowered to
appoint employes of the Canhl Zone. The Act provided
that "the compensation of such persons shall be fixed by
the President, or by his authority, until such time as Congress may by law regulate the same" (§ 4). By Executive
Order of February 2, 1914, the President established overtime for per diem and hourly workers but forbade overtime for those paid on a monthly or annual basis. Congress did undoubtedly legislate further on the subject
in § 23 of the Act of 1934. The administrative practice
prior to the adoption of the section is, therefore, of no
moment.
The Governor's attempt to reduce the compensation of
the respondent by working him overtime and not payingt
him for his overtime, in the teeth of the statute and the
Comptroller General's ruling, certainly cannot be accorded
weight in construing the statute.
The Government produced at the trial of the case in the
court below certain letters from the Navy Department, the
Government Printing Office, and the Bureau of Engraving
and Printing of the Treasury Department stating that
they had interpreted § 23 as applying only to per diem
and hourly employes, and that no overtime had been paid
to employes working on a monthly or yearly basis. These
letters do not state, however, that these branches regularly worked such employes overtime, as did the Governor
of the Canal Zone, without paying for overtime work.
llSupra Note

4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

Such evidence as there is in the record would seem to
indicate the contrary.
The Secretary of the Navy submitted certain questions
respecting § 23 to the Comptroller General immediately
after the enactment of the section. One was whether per
annum or per month employes who worked in excess of 40
hours a week "because of an extraordinary emergency"
should be paid overtime. The Comptroller answered in
the negative, referring to his decision rendered the Government Printing Office 1 in which he said that the regular hours of work of employes on an annual basis were
required by § 23 to be fixed at not to exceed 40 per
week. In the same opinion rendered to the Public Printer
he had ruled that such employes were not entitled to overtime. There is no evidence that the Secretary of the Navy
or the Public Printer conceived that they could work per
annum and per month employes more than 40 hours
a week without extra compensation except in cases of extraordinary emergency or that they ever pursued a practice like that of the Governor of the Panama Canal.
It would seem, therefore, that the hours of monthly paid
mechanical employes in the departments in question were
reduced to 40 without any pay cut. Such action would
be in accordance with the rulings of the Comptroller General. Thus the administrative construction of the Governor seems to stand alone and in contradiction to that of
other heads of departments and offices of the Government, and, in this respect, worked a discrimination against
the respondent and those in his class as contrasted with
other employes who stood in the same relation. Certain
it is that the Comptroller General never ruled that the
standard of 40 hours a week with overtime could be
disregarded in practice.
Finally, the Government argues that related legislation
indicates Congress did not intend § 23 to apply to em12

13 Comp. Gen. 265.

UNITED STATES v. TOWNSLEY.
.557

Opinion of the Court.

ployes paid by the month or by the year. We think, however, that, on analysis, the course of legislation, considered
as a whole, fails to sustain the contention. As we have
said, adoption of the principle of limitation of working
time and extra pay for overtime, in respect of Government
employment, has been of gradual development.
As early as 1883 Congress authorized the Public Printer
to pay extra prices in accordance with the customs of the
trade and the justice of the case for extra work ordered in
emergencies, performed on Sundays or legal holidays or
at night, if performed by other than regular night forces. 3
It is assumed that the employes embraced in this legislation were paid per diem or per hour. The provision for
payment of overtime in the Public Printer's office has
been continued in the successive statutes. 4
In 1888 Congress prescribed an 8-hour day with payment for overtime for letter carriers of the United States
Postal Service,' who receive annual salaries.
In 1911 provision was made for overtime pay of employes of the Customs Service required by the nature of
their service to work after 5 P. M. 8 Such overtime pay
was to be reimbursed the Government by the steamship
companies whose business required such services.
In 1919 the Secretary of Agriculture was authorized
to pay employes of the Bureau of Animal Industry, employed in industrial establishments in the inspection of
meat, for overtime work." Here again the Government
was to be reimbursed by the establishment which required
the working of overtime, but the compensation paid the
inspectors was on an annual salary basis.
13 Act of January 13, 1883, 22 Stat. 402.
14 See 44 U. S. C. 40.

15 Act of May 24, 1888, 25 Stat. 157; cf. United States v. Post, 148
U. S. 124. See also 39 U. S. C. 117.
16 Act of Feb. 13, 1911, § 5, 36 Stat. 901. See United States v.
Myers, 320 U. S. 561.
1' Act of July 24, 1919, 41 Stat. 241, 7 U. S. C. 394.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

570

Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

In 1940 an Act was passed 18 making the regular working hours of the Navy Department and the Coast Guard,
and their field services "eight hours a day or forty hours
per week" during the period of the national emergency.
The Act set a different method of paying the overtime to
monthly, per diem, hourly and piecework employes than
that applied to employes paid by the year, but it is to be
noted that the 40-hour week and the overtime rate of
one and one-half times the regular rate was applied to
monthly employes.
The Government lays great stress on a report of the
Committee on Naval Affairs reporting this legislation to
the Senate. 9 In that report the Committee said, referring
to the 40-hour per week limit, and the payment for
overtime: "In this regard, the provision for the payment
of compensation [for overtime] to per annum and per
month employees is a departure from the practice heretofore followed. . .".. A similar statement was made in
the House report." The difficulty that arises in giving
weight to these statements of the Congressional Committees is that the facts already recited show the reports were
wrong in fact and apparently were based upon an inaccurate statement which was credited by the Conrittees.
In the same year Congress passed another Act on the
subject of overtime. 1 In this it was provided:
"notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, compensation for employment in excess of forty hours in any
administrative workweek computed at a rate not less than
one and one-half times the regular rate is hereby authorized to be paid at such places and to such monthly,
18

Act of June 28, 1940, 54 Stat. 676, 678.

This Act expired June

30, 1942.
19
S.Rep. No. 1863, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., pp. 11-12.
20
H. Rep. No. 2257, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., pp. 3-4.
21 Act of October 21, 1940, 54 Stat. 1205. This Act expired June
30, 1942.

UNITED STATES v. TOWNSLEY.
557

Opinion of the Court.

per diem, hourly, and piecework employees of the field
services of the War Department and the field services
of the Panama Canal whose wages are set by wage boards
or other wage fixing authorities, . . ."
Such light as we gain from the discussion in Congress indicates that Congress already understood that overtime
was payable to certain employes of the Panama Canal
by virtue of § 23 of the Act of 1934, but that it was desired
to extend the limitation of hours per week and the payment of overtime to employes of the field services of the
Army and the field services of the Panama Canal. Thus,
in the debate, Mr. Ramspeck, of the House Committee on

Civil Service, said:

22

"The Secretary of War and the Assistant Secretary of
War . . . say that they have the legal authority now to
pay overtime to certain employees of the War Department in the arsenals and at the Panama Canal, but as to
others they have not this authority and this creates a bad
administrative situation. They have recommended this
bill, which has passed the Senate, and it is my understanding we have given the same authority to the Navy Department as to the Navy yards."
Finally, in 1942, by Joint Resolution, Congress provided
for overtime pay for Government employes generally 21
including employes of Government-owned or controlled
organizations and those of the District of Columbia whose
positions are subject to the Classification Act of 1923.
The resolution embodies a proviso excluding "those whose
wages are fixed on a daily or hourly basis and adjusted
from time to time in accordance with prevailing rates by
wage boards or similar administrative authority serving
the same purpose, . . ." From this proviso the Government argues that Congress believed that up to that time
22
23

86 Cong. Rec. 13557.
56 Stat. 1068.

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

those whose monthly compensation was fixed by wage
boards had not been entitled to overtime and that the
resolution granted it to them for the first time. Whatever
Congress may have thought or intended in respect of the
proviso, we cannot ignore the fact that § 23 of the Act of
March 28, 1934, on its face, applied to such monthly
employes, that the Comptroller had so ruled, and that, so
far as appears, the departments concerned had acted with
that understanding, save only the Governor of the Panama
Canal who, although so advised, had acted in the teeth of
the statute.
The same misapprehension with respect to the effect and
administration of the Act of 1934 seems to have prevailed
when the Wax Overtime Pay Act of 1943 ' was adopted.
That Act, by a sweeping provision, granted overtime pay
to all civil employes of the Government and all employes
of Government-owned or controlled corporations, except
those in the Government Printing Office and the Tennessee Valley Authority. It specifically included officers and
employes whose wages are fixed on a monthly or yearly
basis by wage boards or similar authorities, and excluded
employes whose wages are fixed on a daily or hourly basis
by wage boards.
We think this summary of the legislation on the subject
is not conclusive or even strongly persuasive as an aid to
the construction of the Act under consideration as of the
time when Congress adopted it. It seems that there was
no very clear and general policy with respect to the payment of overtime until the exigencies of the war called
for compensation of Government employes as a class on
a basis similar to that adopted in private industry. When
the time came to make such general provision, the more
or less haphazard dealing with the subject theretofore
seems not to hav been clearly in mind.
Act of May 7, 1943, 57 Stat. 75, § 1.

UNITED STATES v. TOWNSLEY.
557

Opinion of the Court.

We conclude that the Court of Claims properly held
that § 23 applies in respondent's case and that he is
entitled to recover for the overtime he was required
to work.
We reach then the question whether the court adopted
the correct method of calculating the overtime compensation. The respondent submitted a computation whereby
he multiplied his monthly salary by twelve and divided
the result by fifty-two to ascertain his weekly salary. He
divided the weekly salary by five to obtain his daily pay
for an 8-hour day for each week that he had worked a
sixth day. He took the number of weeks in which he
had worked a sixth day and multiplied that number by the
ascertained daily wage, plus one-half. The Government
argued in the court below, and argues in this court, that
the monthly wage of the respondent covered every day of
the month because the Government hired his full time.
As a result, it is said, his daily pay should be one-thirtieth
of his monthly pay." In this view, he has been paid
straight time not only for the five days, or the forty hours,
he should have been worked under § 23 but also for the
sixth day he was required to serve. The result is that he
should be granted only additional half pay for the sixth
day of each week. But, according to this contention, the
respondent will already have been overpaid for, according
to the argument, he has been paid straight time for the
seventh day of each week although he only worked six
days and has, therefore, received additional overtime pay
for the sixth day. The court below approved the respondent's method of reckoning and we think its decision correct. After the adoption of § 23 the respondent was in
25

The Government relies on the Act of. June 30, 1906, 34 Stat. 763,

5 U. S. C. 84. That statute, however, was not addressed to the problem of a standard work week of a limited number of hours and the
calculation of overtime for hours worked in excess of the limit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

323 U. S.

effect hired for a work week of forty hours, or a five-day
week, and his daily wage was to be determined on that
basis. He has not been paid for the sixth day of each
week and should recover straight time and one-half for
the sixth day. This computation accomplishes this, and
there is authority for resort to it."0
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

The

concurs in the result.

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

and- MR.

dissent.

TILLER, EXECUTOR, v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE
RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 335.

Argued January 5, 1945.-Decided January 15, 1945.

1. Whether the railroad's failure to provide the locomotive with a
light on the rear, as required by rules prescribed by the Interstate
Commerce Commission pursuant to the Boiler Inspection Act, proximately contributed to the death of the decedent in this casethough if the light had been provided it would have been obscured by
the cars which the locomotive was pushing in reverse-was a question for the jury. P. 578.
2. The District Court correctly charged the jury in this case that their
verdict should be for the plaintiff if they found that the back-up
movement was unusual and unexpected, that it was made without
adequate warning to the decedent, and that failure to give adequate
warning was the proximate cause of the injury. P. 579.
3. In a suit against a railroad under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act for a death resulting from negligence, an amendment of the
complaint alleging a violation of the Boiler Inspection Act, held not
barred by the three years' limitation of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. P. 580.
2

See St. John v. Brown; Allen v. Moe, supra,Note 10.

