OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE
v. HARMON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 33. Argued October 18, 19, 1944.-Decided November 20, 1944.
Husband and wife who elect to have the optional Oklahoma community property law apply to them are not entitled thereafter to
divide the community income equally between them for purposes
of federal income tax. Poe v. Seaborn, 282 U. S. 101, distinguished.

P. 45.
139 F. 2d 211, reversed.

321 U. S. 760, to review the affirmance of
a decision of the Tax Court, 1 T. C. 40, which reversed the
Commissioner's determination of a deficiency in income
tax.
CERTIORARI,

Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., with
whom Solicitor General Fahy, Messrs. Sewall Key, Paul
A. Freund,Bernard Chertcoff, and Miss Helen R. Carloss
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. L. Karlton Mosteller and Villard Martin for
respondent.
Mr. George Neuner, Attorney General of Oregon, and
Grace L. Bottler, Assistant Attorney General, filed a brief
on behalf of that State, as amicus curiae, urging
affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question posed by this case is whether, upon a
state's adoption of an optional community property law, a
husband and wife who elect to come under that law are entitled thereafter to divide the community income equally
between them for purposes of federal income tax.
July 29, 1939, Oklahoma adopted a community property law operative only if and when husband and wife

COMMISSIONER v. HARMON.
44

45

Opinion of the Court.

elect to avail of its provisions. In conformity to the requirements of the statute, the respondent and his wife
filed, October 26, 1939, a written election to have the law
apply to them. From November 1 to December 31, 1939,
they received income consisting of his salary, dividends
from his stocks, dividends from her stocks, interest on
obligations due him, distribution of profits of a partnership of which he was a member, and oil royalties due to
each of them. The Act constitutes all of these receipts
community income. The taxpayer and his wife filed separate income tax returns for 1939 in which each reported
one half of the November and December income. The
Commissioner determined a deficiency in the view that
the respondent was taxable on all of the income derived
from his earnings and from his separate property, but on
none of that derived from his wife's separate property.
The Tax Court sustained the method adopted by the
respondent and his wife.1 The Circuit Court of Appeals,
one judge dissenting, affirmed the decision.2 Both courts
relied on Poe v. Seaborn, 282 U. S. 101. They concluded
that, after election to take the -benefit of the law, the wife
became vested with one half of all community income as
therein defined. And, since this court held in Poe v. Seaborn that the community income thee involved was, as
to one half, the 'income "of" the wife within the intent
of what is now § 11 of the Internal Revenue Code,' because she had an original and not a derivative vested property interest therein, it must follow that, under the Oklahoma law, one half of the income is the wife's for income
tax purposes. They overruled the petitioner's contention
that, as the statute permits voluntary action which effects
a transfer of rights of the husband and wife, the case is
1 T. C. 40.
2139 F. 2d 211.
826 U. S. C. § 11. The section provides that the tax shall be
levied "upon the net income of every individual." The language has
been the same in each of the Revenue Acts.

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

governed by Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111, and other decisions of like import." We hold that the petitioner's
view is the right one.
Under Lucas v. Earl an assignment of income to be
earned or to accrue in the future, even though authorized
by state law and irrevocable in character, is ineffective to
render the income immune from taxation as that of the
assignor. On the other hand, in those states which, by
inheritance of Spanish law, have always had a legal community property system, which vests in each spouse one
half of the community income as it accrues, each is entitled to return one half of the income as the basis of federal income tax. Communities are of two sorts,-consensual and legal. A consensual community arises out of
contract. It does not significantly differ in origin or nature from such a status as was in question in Lucas v. Earl,
where by contract future income of the spouses was to
vest in them as joint tenants. In Poe v. Seaborn, supra,
the court was not dealing with a consensual community
but one made an incident of marriage by the inveterate
policy of the'State. In that case the court was faced with
these facts: The legal community system of the States in
question long antedated the Sixteenth Amendment and
the first RevenueoAct adopted thereunder. Under that
system, as a result of State policy, and without any act
on the part of either spouse, one half of the community
income vested in each spouse as the income accrued and
was, in law, to that extent, the income of the spouse. The
Treasury had consistently ruled that the Revenue Act
applied to the property systems of those States as it
found them and consequently husband and wife were entitled each to return one half the community income. The
Congress was fully conversant of these rulings and the
practice thereunder, was asked to alter the provisions of
4 See also Burnet v. Leininger, 285 U. S. 136; Helvering v. Horst,
311 U. S. 112; Helvering v. Eubank, 311 U. S. 122.

COMMISSIONER v. HARMON.
44

Opinion of the Court.

later revenue acts to change the incidence of the tax, and
refused to do so. In these circumstances, the court declined to apply the doctrine of Lucas v. Earl.
In Oklahoma, prior to the passage of the community
property law, the rules of the common law, as modified
by statute, represented the settled policy of the State
concerning the relation of husband and wife. A husband's
income from earnings was his own; that from his securities
was his own. The same was true of the wife's income.
Prior to 1939, Oklahoma had no policy with respect to the
artificial being known as a community. Nor can we say
that, since that year, the State has any new policy, for it
has not adopted, as an incident of marriage, any legal
community property system. The most that can be said
is that the present policy of Oklahoma is to permit
spouses, by contract, to alter the status which they would
otherwise have under the prevailing property system in
the State.
Such legislative permission cannot alter the true nature
of what is done when husband and wife, after marriage,
alter certain of the incidents of that relation by mutual
contract. Married persons in many noncommunity states
might, by agreement, make a similar alteration in their
prospective rights to the fruits of each other's labors or
investments, as was done in Lucas v. Earl. This would
seem to be possible in every State where husband and
wife are permitted freely to contract with each other
respecting property thereafter acquired by either.
Much of counsel's argument is addressed to specific
features of the Oklahoma community property law and
comparison of those features with the laws of the traditional community property States. We lay this aside
and assume that, once established, the community property status of Oklahoma spouses is at least equal to that
of man and wife in any community property State with
whose law we were concerned in Poe v. Seaborn. To cite

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

examples: We think it immaterial, for present purposes,
that the community status may or may not be altered by
contract between the parties, may or may not be avoided
by antenuptial agreements, or that certain assets of a
spouse may or may not be classed as "separate" property
excluded from the community. The important fact is
that the community system of Oklahoma is not a system,
dictated by State policy, as an incident of matrimony.
Our decisions in United States v. Robbins, 269 U. S. 315,
and in United States v. Malcolm, 282 U. S. 792, do not, as
respondent argues, require an affirmance of the judgment.
Those cases dealt with the community property law of
California. The concept of community property came to
California from the Spanish law, as it did in other States
whose territory had once been a part of the Spanish possessions on this continent. There had been a series of
decisions in California with respect to the character of the
wife's rights in the community. The courts had at times
indicated that this was a vested property right and on
other occasions had indicated that all the wife had was a
mere expectancy which ripened on the death of the husband. Prior to the decision in the Robbins case the Supreme Court of the State had finally ruled that her interest was of the latter sort. The Treasury had taken the
same view and had denied California spouses the privilege
of each returning one-half of the community income. In
view of the decision of the Supreme Court of California
this court sustained the Treasury's ruling in the Robbins
case. This was in spite of the fact that over a period of
years the legislature of California had adopted statutes
which indicated that the wife's interest was in fact more
than a mere expectancy. In 1927 the California legislature, in an effort to settle this controversy of long standing, adopted a statute declaring that the wife's interest in
the community was a present vested interest. Then came
the Malcolm case in which the Circuit Court of Appeals

COMMISSIONER v. HARMON.
44

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

for the Ninth Circuit certified to this court two questions:
First, whether in view, of the law of California the husband must return the entire income, and, second, whether
the wife, under the Act of 1927, had such an interest in
the community income that she should separately report
and pay tax on one half thereof. In a per curiam opinion this court answered the first question "No" and the
second question "Yes." Two circumstances must be
borne in mind in connection with that decision. The incidents of the system had been the subject of litigation for
years. The final action of the legislature could well be
taken as declaratory of what it involved and implied as
respects the interests of husbands and wives. Thus the
court was not required to meet any such question as is
presented here by the permissive initiation of community
property status. In addition, inspection of the briefs and
of the report will show that the court's action was bottomed on a concession by the Government that "with
respect to the particular income here in question, the
interests of the husband and wife were such as to bring
the case within the rulings" in Poe v. Seaborn and related
cases, "because of amendments of the California statutes
made since United States v. Robbins, 269 U. S. 315, was
decided." It is apparent, therefore, that our decisions
dealing with California law do not answer the question
presented in this case.
The judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTIcE BLAcK

concurs, dissenting.
The federal income tax law makes a discrimination in
favor of the community property states. In 1937 the Secretary of the Treasury pointed out I that
t Tax Evasion and Avoidance, Hearings, House Committee On
Ways and Means, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

"A New York resident with a salary of $100,000 pays
about $32,525 Federal income tax; a Californian with the
same salary may cause one-half to be reported by his wife
and the Federal income taxes payable by the two will be
only $18,626. The total loss of revenue due to this unjustifiable discrimination against the residents of 40 States
runs into the millions."
That discrimination has become increasingly sharp as surtax rates have increased.2 The source of that discrimination is to be found in decisions of this Court.
Those decisions' are best illustrated by Poe v. Seaborn,
282 U. S. 101, which involved the community property
system of the State of Washington. They held that the
husband need pay the federal income tax on only one-half
of his salary and other income from the community, since
the other half of those earnings from their very inception
belonged to his wife. The collector had argued that the
control exercised by the husband over the community was
sufficient to make him liable for the tax on the full
amount. That result had indeed been indicated by Mr.
Justice Holmes speaking for the Court in United States
v. Robbins, 269 U. S. 315, 327. And it has been strongly
urged that our recent decisions--such as Helvering v.
Clifford, 309 U. S. 331, and Harrisonv. Schaffner, 312 U. S.
579-make for the same result.4 But in Poe v. Seaborn
and related cases the Court discarded that test. It was
more concerned with legal doctrine than it was with economic realities. It held that the wife's interest in the com2 See the table computed on the 1941 rates in 3 Mertens, Law of
Federal Income Taxation (1942) p. 20.
3Goodell v. Koch, 282 U. S. 118, involving the community property
system of Arizona; Hopkins v. Bacon, 282 U. S. 122 (Texas); Bender
v. Pfaff, 282 U. S. 127 (Louisiana); United States v. Malcolm, 282
U. S. 792 (California).
4 See for example Ray, Proposed Changes in Federal Taxation of
Community Property, 30 Calif. L. Rev. 397, 407; 1 Paul, Federal
Estate & Gift Taxation (1942) § 1.09.

COMMISSIONER v. HARMON.
44

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

5
munity (including the husband's salary) was "vested"
and that therefore the husband need pay the federal
income tax on only half of that income.
One dubious decision does not of course justify another.
But if Texas can reduce the husband's income tax by
creating in his wife a "vested" interest in half his salary
and other income, I fail to see why its neighbor, Oklahoma,
may not do the same thing. The Court now concedes
that once established, the community property status of
Oklahoma spouses is at least equal to that of man and
wife in any community property state. How then can
Oklahoma be denied the same privilege which other community property states enjoy?
It is said that the elective feature of the Oklahoma
statute causes it to run afoul of Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S.
111, which held that an assignment of income to be earned
or to accrue in the future was ineffective to render the income immune from taxation as that of the assignor. But
the Court was not troubled with Lucas v. Earl in Poe v.
Seaborn. It disposed of that argument by saying that in
Lucas v. Earl the "very assignment" was bottomed on the
fact that "the earnings would be the husband's property,
else there would have been nothing on which it could
operate. That case presents quite a different question
from this, because here, by law, the earnings are never
the property of the husband, but that of the community."
282 U. S. p. 117. (Italics added.) By the same reasoning
we should say that Oklahoma has made these earnings
the "property" of the community once the written election

5 Cf. Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, 118:
"The importation of these distinctions and controversies from the
law of property into the administration of the estate tax precludes
a fair and workable tax system. Essentially the same interests,
judged from the point of view of wealth, will be taxable or not,
depending upon elusive and subtle casuistries which may have their
historic justification but possess no relevance for tax purposes."

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

has been filed and that income which accrues thereafter
never becomes the sole "property" of the husband. Indeed we have the word of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma
that such a transfer was effected by the written election
filed by the husband and wife in this case. Harmon v.
Oklahoma Tax Commission, 189 Okla. 475, 118 P. 2d 205.
There is no suggestion that the transfer of "property"
interests in this case is any less genuine or effective than
it was in Poe v. Seaborn. The written election once filed
is irrevocable. Only death or a decree of absolute divorce
can alter it. Okla. Stats. Ann. 1941, Title 32, § 51. If
as Poe v. Seaborn holds the crucial circumstance is whether
the income as it accrues is the "property" of the community, it should make no difference for federal income tax
purposes that the transfer from the husband to the community was effected by the act of filing a written election
rather than by the act of marriage. If, "by law, the
earnings are never the property of the husband, but that
of the community" (Poe v. Seaborn, supra, p. 117), the
husband should fare no better in Washington or Texas
or California than in Oklahoma. The source of the
"law" which determines whether or not that result
obtains is the same in each case-the legislature and
the judiciary of the particular state. If they declare
that the husband has lost and the wife acquired a
"property" interest by a certain act (whether by marriage, or by the filing of a paper), it is the "law" though
it is a recent pronouncement and not an "inveterate"
and long standing rule of that particular state. The
consequence under the federal income tax statute is of
course for us to decide. My only point is that if that
is the formula for some states it should be the formula
for all. We should apply it equally and without discrimination or we should discard it completely.
But it is said that the filing of a written election under
the Oklahoma statute is an "anticipatory arrangement"

COMMISSIONER v. HARMON.
44

Dourmis, J., dissenting.

for the disposition of income under the rule of Lucas v.
Earl; that a "consensual" community will not be recognized for federal income tax purposes but that a "legal"
community will. As the Tax Court, however, pointed
out (1 T. C. 40, 49) such a distinction will not stand scrutiny. Community property created by marriage is the
effect of a contract.' It is the result of a consensual act.
The same is true where husband and wife agree to leave
Oklahoma and establish their domicile in Texas so as to
gain the advantages of a community property system. I
can see no difference in substance whether the state puts
its community property system in effect by one kind of
contract or another. One is as much "legal" as another.
The agreement to marry or the agreement to move from
Oklahoma to Texas is as "consensual" as the act of filing
a written election under the Oklahoma statute.
But if a distinction is taken between a "legal" and a
"consensual" community, it cannot be consistently maintained for federal income tax purposes. In the first place,
even the distinction which the Court seeks to take between
this case and Poe v. Seaborn vanishes when after-acquired
property is considered. Let us assume there is property
first acquired in Oklahoma after the written election has
been filed' and in Washington after marriage. How are
we justified in saying that Lucas v. Earlmakes the written
election but not the marriage an anticipatory arrangement affecting the income from that after-acquired property? Oklahoma is as explicit as Washington in saying
6 Louisiana has recognized that "The community of property, created by marriage is not a partnership; it is the effect of a contract
governed by rules prescribed for that purpose in this Code." Civ.
Code, Art. 2807. This Court applied the rule of Poe v. Seaborn to
the Louisiana community property system in Bender v. Pfaff, supra,
note 3.
7For all we know some of the income involved in this case may have
accrued from property acquired after the written election was filed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

that property so acquired by the husband "shall be
deemed the community or common property of the husband and the wife and each, subject to the provisions of
this Act, shall be vested with an undivided one-half interest therein." Okla. Stats. Ann. 1941, Title 32, § 56.
In both cases the husband never was and never could be
the sole owner of that property if local law is to be the
guide. His "status" under Oklahoma law is as fixed and
irrevocable as it is under Washington law. How can it
be said that after-acquired property is governed by
"status" in one case and by "cbntract" in the other? If
such a distinction is drawn, we are indeed making income
tax liability turn on "elusive and subtle casuistries." Cf.
Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, 118. In the second
place, the Tax Court pointed out in this case that the
difference "between a community property law which is
operative only when expressly invoked and one which
operates unless expressly revoked" (1 T. C. p. 46) has no
practical basis. There may be a "consensual" community within a so-called "legal" community. In some of
the so-called "legal" community property states separate
property of one spouse may be converted by contract or
deed into community property or vice -versa. .Volz v.
Zang, 113 Wash. 378, 194 P. 409; State ex rel. Vaz Mons v.
Sailors, 180 Wash. 269, 39 P. 2d 397; Kenney v.-Kenney,
220 Calif. 134, 136, 30 P. 2d 398. But see Kellett v. Kellett, 23 Tex. Civ. App. 571, 56 S. W. 766; McDonald v.
Lambert, 43 N. M. 27, 85 P. 2d 78. And it has been supposed since Poe v. Seaborn that income from that type of
community property was not thereafter to be treated as
the separate property of the spouse who originally owned
it. See 3 Mertens, The Law of Federal Income Taxation
(1942) § 19.29. That has been the consistent view8 both
8

Likewise if in the traditional community property States community property is transmuted by agreement of the spouses into the
separate property of one spouse, the income thereafter is taxable

COMMISSIONER v. HARMON.
44

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

of the courts (Black v. Commissioner, 114 F. 2d 355) and
of the Tax Court. Shoenhair v. Commissioner, 45 B. T. A.
576, 579; Harmon v. Commissioner, 1 T. C. 40, 46-47.
And that has been the Treasury position. G. C. M. 19248,
Int. Rev. Bull., Cum. Bull. 1937-2, p. 59. If Poe v. Seaborn states the correct rule, that view seems irrefutable.
Community property is no less created "by law" whether
it was created by the contract of marriage or by a postnuptial agreement.
But are we now to understand that post-nuptial agreements in all community property states are ineffective
for federal income tax purposes because they are "consensual" ? Or is the Court willing to give income tax
effect to such contracts only within the established community property states? If it is the former then we are
overriding settled administrative construction on which
great reliance was placed in Poe v. Seaborn, 282 U. S. p.
116. If it is the latter, then we can hardly say that the
difference between the Oklahoma system and the Washington system is that Washington has created its system
"as an incident of matrimony" while Oklahoma has not.
In that event we make unmistakably plain the discrimination against Oklahoma-we give income tax effect to a
post-nuptial agreement between spouses in eight states
and deny effect to a similar agreement in Oklahoma. The
only apparent basis for such discrimination is that the
community property systems in the eight states are traditional; that those eight states have a well-settled policy;
that Oklahoma merely gives its citizens a choice to get
under or stay out of its community property system. Yet
how can we say that the state which allows husband and
wife to revoke or alter its community property system by
solely to the latter. The Tax Court has so held. Brooks v. Commissioner, 43 B. T. A. 860; Shoenhair v. Commissioner, 45 B. T. A. 576.
And the courts have sustained that position. Sparkman v. Commisioner, 112 F. 2d 774; Helvering v. Hickman, 70 F. 2d 985.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

323 U. S.

contract has a more "settled" policy towards community
property than a state which gives husband and wife the
choice to invoke its community property system or to
keep their marital property on a common law basis? The
truth is that there is a wide range of choice in each. But
the fact that there is a choice should not be deemed fatal
when Oklahoma's case comes before the Court and irrelevant when Washington's case is here.
The distinctive feature of the community property system is that the products of the industry of either spouse
are attributed to both; the husband is never the sole
"owner" of his earnings; his wife acquires a half interest
in them from their very inception. 1, de Funiak, Principles of Community Property (1943) § 239. That was
the test which Poe v. Seaborn adopted. If Oklahoma
meets that test, then she should be treated on a parity
with her sister states. The fact that her system is newborn ' does not make it any the less genuine.
I do not mean to defend Poe v. Seaborn. I only say
that if we are to stand by it, we should not allow it to
become a "vested" interest of only a few of the states.
The truth of the matter is that Lucas v. Earl and Helvering v. Clifford on the one hand and Poe v. Seaborn on
the other state competing theories of income tax liability.
Or to put it another way, Poe v. Seaborn has been carved
out as an exception to the general rules of liability for
income taxes. If we are to create such exceptions we
should do so uniformly. We should not allow the rationale of Poe v. Seaborn to be good for one group of
states and for one group only. If we are to abandon the
9 Even the argument based on tradition must be taken with a grain
of salt unless history is to be no guide. Apparently some of the states
were merely one jump ahead of the decisions of this Court in providing
the wife with a "vested" interest in the community. The story is

briefly related in Cahn, Federal Taxation and Private Law, 44 Col,

L. Rev. 669, 674-677.

57

McDONALD v. COMMISSIONER.
44

Syllabus.

rationale of Poe v. Seaborn, we should do so openly and

avowedly.

If the practical consequences of applying the

rationale of Poe v. Seaborn to other situations would be

disastrous to federal finance, it is time to reexamine the
case.

The rule which it fashions is the rule of this Court.

We have the responsibility for its creation. If we adhere
to it, we should apply it without discrimination. If we

are not to apply it equally to all states, we should be rid
of it.

This is the time to face the issue squarely.

McDONALD

v. COMMISSIONER

OF INTERNAL

REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 36.

Argued October 20, 1944.-Decided November 20, 1944.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a decision
of the Tax Court disallowing, in computing petitioner's income tax
for 1939, a deduction of campaign expenses-including an "assessment" by the political party of which he was a candidate-incurred
in contesting unsuccessfully an election for a judgeship which he had
been holding temporarily by appointment, is affirmed.

Opinion of FRANKFURTER, J., in which
and JACKSON, JJ., concur:

STONE, C.

J., and ROBERTS

1. Petitioner's campaign expenses were not deductible (1) under
§ 23 (a) (1) (A) of the Internal Revenue Code as expenses incurred in "carrying on any trade or business"; (2) under § 23 (e)
(2) as a loss incurred in a "transaction entered into for profit";
nor (3) under § 23 (a) (2) as expenses incurred "for the production
or collection of income." P. 60.
2. Under existing legislation, an incumbent is no more than
others entitled to deduction of campaign expenses. P. 63.
3. Affirmance of the decision of the Tax Court in this case is supported also by the rationale of Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U. S.
489. P. 64.
139 F. 2d 400, affirmed.

