594

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Statement of the Case.

323 U. S.

CITY BANK FARMERS TRUST CO. (FORMERLY
FARMERS LOAN & TRUST CO.), ADMINISTRATOR, v. McGOWAN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 294. Argued January 4, 1945.-Decided January 29, 1945.
1. Section 302 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1926, as amended, which, for
the purpose of the federal estate tax, requires inclusion, in the gross
estate of a decedent, of any interest in property of which "the decedent has at any time made a transfer ... in contemplation
of . . . his death," held applicable to a transfer of property of an

incompetent person, effected by order of a court acting in lieu of
the incompetent. P. 598.
2. A transfer is "in contemplation of death," within the meaning of
§ 302 (c), where the thought of death is the impelling cause of the
transfer. United States v. Wells, 283 U. S. 102. P. 599.
3. Where by court order annual allowances were made out of the
surplus income of an incompetent person, over seventy years of
age and incurably insane, to descendants who would inherit the
incompetent's property, and where the dominating reason for the
allowances was that the beneficiaries would eventually divide the
estate, held that the annual allowances-to the extent that they
exceeded an amount which the incompetent, for some years prior
to adjudication of incompetency, had regularly allowed-were
made "in contemplation of death," within the meaning of § 302
(c). P. 599.
4. Allowances made by court order out of the surplus income of an
incompetent person to collateral relations, who would inherit no
part of the incompetent's property and who were in need of funds
for their maintenance and support, held not made "in contemplation of death" within the meaning of § 302 (c). P. 600.
142 F. 2d 599, reversed in part.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 689; to review the affirmance of a
judgment, 43 F. Supp. 790, which allowed recovery in part
in a suit for refund of federal estate taxes.

CITY BANK CO. v. McGOWAN.
594

595

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. James Lloyd Derby and J. Seymour Montgomery, Jr., with whom Messrs. Frederick P. King and John
K. Watson were on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., with
whom Solicitor General Fahy, Messrs. Sewall Key, J.
Louis Monarch, Carlton Fox and Chester T. Lane were on
the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents an issue of importance arising under

§ 302 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1926, as amended,' which
requires inclusion, in the gross taxable estate of a decedent, of any interest in property of which the "decedent
has at any time made a transfer . . . in contemplation of
. . . his death

. . .".

More specifically, the inquiry is

whether the section reaches allowances out of the income
of an incompetent person.
Helen Hall Vail died in 1935 intestate. For nine years
she had been incurably insane. In 1926 an adjudication
of incompetency was entered by the Supreme Court of the
State of New York, and a committee was appointed to
care for her property, which consisted of income-producing
realty and personalty. In addition, she was in receipt of
the income of a trust. During the period of five years
prior to the adjudication her annual income from all
sources had averaged $300,000. She was over 70 years of
age but in good physical health. She had a living daughter
and three grandsons, children of a deceased daughter.
Application was made to the court to make allowances out
of income to Mrs. Vail's issue and to a brother and sisters.
The court referred the matter to a referee before whom it
was shown that she had, over a period of years, allowed
1Internal Revenue Code § 811 (c), 26 U. S. C. § 811 (e).

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

each of her daughters $6,000, and one of her sisters $500,
per annum, and had made gifts to her daughters, but not
with regularity. As she was confined in an institution, her
total needs, including maintenance and taxes, did not
exceed $50,000 per annum. Accumulated income in the
hands of the committee amounted to over $750,000.
The court, on the basis of the referee's report, entered an
order which, after reciting that Mrs. Vail had made no will,
that the daughter and grandchildren, or their issue, would,
upon her death, be her only heirs at law and next of kin,
and the only persons entitled to share in her estate, and
that, if she were in possession of her mental faculties, "she
would desire that the allowance hereinafter fixed be made
I and would make such allowances to such persons
out of her property," directed the committee to pay yearly,
in quarterly installments, $50,000 to the living daughter
and $50,000 to the guardian of the children of the deceased daughter, $2,000 each to all but one of the brother
and sisters; and $3,000 to the remaining sister.
Some six years later an application was made for an increase in the allowance. The matter was again referred
for hearing and, on the coming in of the referee's report
showing that accumulated income in Mrs. Vail's account
had increased to over $1,000,000, that income had averaged, for over five years, approximately $395,000 per annum, and, after paying allowances and all expenses, the
surplus averaged about $191,000 a year, the court made
an order reciting that she was then 77 years of age and incurable, enumerated the issue who would be entitled to her
estate at death, that she had no will, and that if she were
competent she would have desired that the sums named
in the earlier decree be augmented, raised the allowances
to the daughters and to the grandchildren collectively to
$75,000, retroactive to the date of the original order. It
was never claimed, and is not contended, that the next
of kin needed any such allowances for their maintenance

CITY BANK CO. v. McGOWAN.
Opinion of the Court.

594

and support in their station in life. It is conceded that
the brother and sisters to whom allowances were made
were destitute and in need of maintenance.
At Mrs. Vail's death the allowances theretofore paid
totaled $1,377,866.67. The Commissioner of Internal
Revenue included the sum in the decedent's gross estate
and determined a deficiency. The petitioner, as administrator, paid the sum demanded, claimed a refund and,
on denial, instituted this action in the District Court.
That court, upon consideration of the record of the proceedings in the Supreme Court of New York, found that
the total of the allowances was properly included in the
decedent's gross estate, except so much as represented annual payments to the daughter and the grandchildren's
guardian of $6,000 each and $500 per annum of the gifts
to collaterals, and entered judgment accordingly. 2 The
Circuit Court of Appeals, by a divided court, affirmed the
judgment.' We granted certiorari.
The Supreme Court of New York is empowered by statute to act as representative of the State, as parens patriae,
in caring for the persons and the estates of its incompetent citizens. That court may grant allowances out of
income only if it determines that the incompetent would
probably have granted such allowances himself had he
been sane. The court does not, in any proper sense, act
as the incompetent's agent. In the exercise of the power
the primary consideration is that the incompetent's property 'shall not be wasted but preserved against the possibility of restoration to sanity. On these propositions the
parties are in accord.
The petitioner urges that the present case is not within
the terms of the statute and that, in enacting § 302, Congress did not contemplate any such contingency as that
243 F. Supp. 790.
8 142

F. 2d 599.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

here involved. It insists that Mrs. Vail made no transfer
but, if any was made, the court made it; that she had
and could have no motive in respect of the gift. In addition, it urges that, under the State law, the court's control
over the estate ceases at the incompetent's death, and the
court cannot make a will for her or in any wise interfere
with the devolution of her estate. Hence, it concludes
that to suggest the court sanctioned transfers of a testamentary character is to assume that it exceeded its powers.
Such an assumption, so petitioner says, ought not to be
indulged. On the contrary, it should be presumed that the
court acted within its granted powers; that is, authorized
transfers inter vivos, with no testamentary motive.
The Government, on the other hand,"takes the position
that nothing in the law of New York, and no authority
cited by the petitioner, precludes the State court from
making an allowance in contemplation of death if, upon
the record made, the court, placing itself in the incompetent's position on the supposition that she were sane and
competent, concludes that she would have made the transfers. And, it adds, that what was done by the Supreme
Court in this case was not appealed and is now beyond
correction, if erroneous, and that the records and orders
evince an understanding that the certainty of continuance
of disability until death, the fact of intestacy, and the
natural expectations of the distributees under the
intestate laws were prevalent factors in moving the court
to make the orders in question, and characterize the court's
action as taken in contemplation of death. The Government says that, as the court was required to, and did, act
as the decedent would have acted if competent, this case is
not outside the terms of § 302 (c) but, on the contrary, in
contemplation of law, the decedent did make the transfers
in question.
The issue is a narrow one. Literally Mrs. Vail neither
made the transfers nor did she have any motive with re-

CITY BANK CO. v. McGOWAN.
594

Opinion of the Court.

spect to them. But a court, stood in her place and unquestionably had the function of 6ffectuating a transfer
of her property and of determining what motive or purpose would have actuated her had she been competent to
act. It seems to us that it is sticking in the bark to say
that, in the circumstances, the transfers are not within
the section because Congress did not add a phrase to the
effect that where a court made the transfer, acting in lieu
of the incompetent owner, such a transfer should be governed by the statute.
We hold, therefore, that where, as in New York, the
court is to substitute itself as nearly as may be for the
incompetent, and to act upon the same motives and considerations as would have moved her, the transfer is, in
legal effect, her act and thei motive is hers.
This being so, the only remaining question is whether
the proof was sufficient to overcome the presumption arising from the Commissioner's determination that the
transfers were made in contemplation of death. The applicable test is that stated in United Stat6s v. Wells, 283
U. S. 102. This is whether the thought of death is the
impelling cause of the transfer. As respects the descendants of Mrs. Vail, it would seem clear enough that there
was no dominant motive for the transfer other than the
thought that, as they would inherit her estate, and as there
was a large accumulation of unneeded income, they might
as well receive substantial portions now as await her
death to enjoy their inheritance. The fact that these beneficiaries did not stand in need of the money, the fact that
the increase granted at the second hearing was made retroactive, and that the past instalments were paid in a
lump sum, the arguments of counsel in both hearings that
the only reason for granting the allowances to Mrs. Vail's
descendants was that they inevitably would divide her
estate amongst them, and the recitals of the court orders, to
which reference has been made, all go to confirm, rather
than to undermine, the Commissioner's determination.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

323 U. S.

We think the District Court was right in holding that,
to the extent of $6,000 per annum, which was the sum
Mrs. Vail, when competent, had regularly allowed each of
her daughters, the transfers fall without the terms of § 302
(c), but that the balance of the payments to her descendants falls within its sweep.
A different question is presented respecting the allowances to collaterals. It appears that they were in need
of funds for their maintenance and support, and it is
obvious that no payments to them could be on account of
any share of their sister's intestate estate. The allowances have the color of current payments for support and
they were authorized because the court concluded that,
if sane and cognizant of the situation, Mrs. Vail would
have made them. These considerations lead to the conclusion that the Commissioner's determination concerning
them is rebutted and that they should not have been included in the decedent's gross estate. To the extent indicated the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed.
eISo
ordered.
BLAIR v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 265. Argued January 2, 3,1945.-Decided January 29, 1945.
1. In this suit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act to recover
damages for personal injuries alleged to have resulted from negligence of the employer in failing to provide adequate equipment and
sufficient competent help, and from negligence of fellow servants,
the evidence was sufficient to go to the jury on the issue of negligence, and the issue should be determined by the jury and not by
the court. P. 604.
2. In determining whether there was negligence, the employer's conduct may be viewed as a whole, especially where the several elements
from which negligence might be inferred are so closely interwoven
as to form a single pattern and where each imparts character to
the others. P. 604.

