32

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

the legislation; that it is an arbitrary fiat.'
shown here. The judgment is

323 U. S.

This is not
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concur

in the result.
SAGE STORES CO. ET AL. v. KANSAS EX REL.
MITCHELL (SUBSTITUTED AS ATTORNEY
GENERAL).
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF KANSAS.
No. 34. Argued October 17, 1944.-Decided November 6, 1944.
A statute of Kansas forbids the sale or keeping for sale of milk "to
which has been added any fat or oil other than milk fat." One of
the purposes of the legislation was prevention of fraud and deception in the sale of such compounds. Held:
1. The statute does not violate the equal protection clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 34.
The statute is not without rational. basis even though it permits the sale of skim milk while forbidding the sale of allegedly
more nutritive compounds.
2. The question of the coverage of the statute is one of state
law. P. 35.
3. As applied to the petitioners' products, which had the taste,
consistency, color and appearance of whole milk products, the
statute did not violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Carolene Products Co. v. United States, ante, p. 18.
P. 36.
157 Kan. 404, 622, 143 P. 2d 652, affirmed.
18 United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304 U. S. 144, 153-54;

Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 304; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113,
132; South CarolinaHighway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177,
191-92; Carmichaelv. Southern Coal Co., 301 U. S. 495, 509; Townsend v. Yeomans, 301 U. S. 441, 451; O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford
Ins. Co., 282 U. S. 251, 257-58; Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries
Co., 251 U. S. 146, 163; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S.
342, 357,

SAGE STORES CO. v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

32

CERTIoRARI, 321 U. S. 762, to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Kansas which, in an original proceeding in quo warranto, sustained the constitutionality of a
statute of that State as applied to the petitioners here.
Mr. Thomas M. Lillard for the Sage Stores Co., and
Mr. Samuel H. Kaufman, with whom Messrs. Thomas M.
Lillard, Crampton Harris,and George Trosk were on the
brief, for Carolene Products Co., petitioners.
Mr. C. Glenn Morris, with whom Mr. A. B. Mitchell,
Attorney General of Kansas, and Mr. Warden L. Noe were
on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JusTicE

RE U delivered the opinion of the Court.

An original action in quo warranto in the Supreme
Court of the State of Kansas was begun against The Sage
Stores, a Kansas corporation, and Carolene Products
Company, a Michigan corporation, by the State of Kansas on the relation of its Attorney General. The purpose
of the proceeding was to stop the sale or offering for sale
in Kansas of filled milk, manufactured by the Michigan
corporation and sold by the Kansas corporation. A judgment granting this relief was entered by the Supreme
Court of Kansas. 157 Kans. 404, 141 P. 2d 655.
A petition for a writ of certiorari was filed by both corporations and granted by this Court, 321 U. S. 762, to
examine a single issue presented by the petition, to wit,
whether the Kansas statute, which prohibits the selling
or keeping for sale of the products of the Carolene Products Co., was an arbitrary, unreasonable and discriminatory interference with petitioners' rights of liberty and
property in violation of the due process and equal protection of law clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. A similar question as
to the federal Filled Milk Act under the Fifth Amendment
is decided today by this Court. CaroleneProducts Co. v.

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

United States, ante, p. 18. Little need be added to that
opinion.
The Kansas statute was first passed in 1923. Rev. Stat.
Kans. 1923, ยง 65-713. It was reenacted as it now stands
in 1927. Laws of Kans. 1927, c. 242, ยง 8 (F) (2). It
reads as follows:
"It shall be unlawful to manufacture, sell, keep for sale,
or have in possession with intent to sell or exchange, any
milk, cream, skim milk, buttermilk, condensed or evaporated milk, powdered milk, condensed skim milk, or any
of the fluid derivatives of any of them to which has been
added any fat or oil other than milk fat, either under the
name of said products, or articles or the derivatives thereof, or under any fictitious or trade name whatsoever."
ยง 65-707 (F) (2), Gen. Stat. Kans. 1935.
The compounds which petitioners manufacture and sell
are covered by this statute. They are the same compounds which are described in Carolene Products Co. v.
United States, supra. Petitioners' defense is that the
compounds are sanitary and healthful. They assert that
the canned compound is properly labeled and that no
fraud is practiced upon the buying public to induce it to
use petitioners' compound instead of whole milk products.
It is admitted that the ordinary consumer cannot distinguish between the compounds and evaporated whole
milk by odor, taste, consistency or other means short of
chemical analysis. State v. Sage Stores Co., 157 Kans.
404, 443, Finding 33.
In these circumstances, it is petitioners' contention that
Kansas' prohibition of the sale, or keeping for sale, of this
healthful product violates the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Apparently the objection under the equal protection
clause is that the Kansas statute permits the sale of
skimmed milk which has less calories and fewer vitamins
than petitioners' compound and yet forbids the sale of

SAGE STORES CO. v. KANSAS.
32

Opinion of the Court.

the compound despite its higher nutritive value. Such an
objection is governed by the same standards of legislation
as objections under the due process clause. It is a matter
of classification and the power of the legislature to classify is as broad as its power to prohibit. A violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment in either case would depend
upon whether there is any rational basis for the action of
the legislature. United States v. Carolene Products Co.,
304 U. S. 144, 153-54; Carmichael v. Southern Coal Co.,
301 U. S. 495, 509.
This writ of certiorari brings to us only the question of
the violation by the Kansas legislation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The coverage of the Kansas statute is a
matter solely for the determination of Kansas. AllenBradley Local V. Board, 315 U. S. 740, 747; United States
v. Texas, 314 U. S. 480, 487. In this case evidence was
introduced as to the deficiencies in certain particulars of
petitioners' compounds as compared with whole milk produets. The findings of the commissioner who acted for the
Supreme Court of Kansas appear in State v. Sage Stores
Co., 157 Kans. 430. His conclusions which were accepted
by the court as to the properties of petitioners' compound
may be gauged by his finding 53, State v. Sage Stores Co.,
157 Kans. at pp. 449-50.
"Defendant's product is wholesome, nutritious and
harmless, in the sense that it contains nothing of a toxic
nature, but it is inferior to evaporated whole milk in the
content of fatty acids, phospholipins, sterols and Vitamins
E and K, all of which are essential in human nutrition,
with the probable exception of Vitamin E in the diet of
infants. In addition, evaporated whole milk contains a
superior growth-promoting property, found in butterfat
and not in cottonseed oil, essential to the optimum growth
of infants.
"These deficiencies in defendant's product, as compared
to evaporated whole milk, are largely made up from other

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

sources when the product is used as a substitute for whole
milk or evaporated whole milk in the diet of adults who
consume a varied diet. When defendant's product is used
as a substitute for whole milk or evaporated whole milk
in the diet of infants and children who do not consume a
varied diet, such deficiencies are not made up, and the
diet is partially inadequate. Defendant's product does
'get into the channels of infant nutrition.' "
It was also determined by the commissioner and approved by the court that one purpose of the legislature
was the prevention of fraud and deception in the sale of
these compounds. State v. Sage Stores Co., 157 Kans.
404, 412-13.
As a consequence of this evidence, findings of fact and
conclusions of law, the rational basis for the action of the
legislature in prohibiting the sale, or keeping for sale, of
the compounds is even more definite and clear than in
Carolene Products Co. v. United States, ante, p. 18.
Since petitioners' products had the taste, consistency,
color and appearance of whole milk products, we need
not consider the validity of the Kansas act as applied to
compounds which are readily distinguishable from whole
milk compounds. Reference is made to part "Third" of
the Carolene opinion for a discussion as to whether or not
a prohibition of these products violates due process.
In our opinion the Kansas legislation did not violate
the Fourteenth Amendment.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JuSTcICi DOUGLAS concur

in the result.

