OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

650

Counsel for Parties.

323 V. S.

accept on liquidation less than their stipulated priority on
liquidation and less than the rights to which they would
have been entitled if the corporation had continued as a
going concern.
The judgment should be reversed.
PRUDENCE

REALIZATION

CORPORATION

v.

FERRIS ET AL., TRUSTEES, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO TAE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 137.

Argued December 8, 11, 1944.-Decided January 29, 1945.

1. The bankruptcy court having closed a ยง 77B proceeding for the
reorganization of an issue of mortgage participation certificates,
without determining or retaining jurisdiction to determine the question of relative priority as between a guarantor and other holders,
and having remitted the parties to "a court of competent jurisdiction" for the determination of that question, the state court as
such a court properly determined the question in accordance with
the law of the State. Prudence Corp. v. Gdist, 316 t. S. 89, distinguished. Pp. 654-656.
2. No appeal having been taken from the bankruptcy court's failure
to retain jurisdiction to determine the question of relative priority,
the order confirming the plan of reorganization is res judicata.
P. 654.
292 N. Y. 210, 54 N. E. 2d 367, affirmed.

post, p. 686, to review a determination of the
relative rights of the parties in a distribution to creditors
under a plan of reorganization,
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Irving L. Schanzer, with whom Mr. James F. Dealy
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr; Charles H. Kriger, with whom Mrs. Henrietta
Kriger was on the brief, for Ferris et al., and Mr. Eugene
Blanc, Jr., with whom Messrs. John Ross Delafield and
Robert McC. Marsh were on the brief, for City Bank
Farmers Trust Co. et al., respondents.

PRUDENCE CORP. v. FERRIS.
650

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Roger S. Foster and Milton V. Freemanfiled a
brief on behalf of the Securities & Exchange Commission,
as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought in one of the courts of the State
of New York to adjudicate conflicting claims against property held to satisfy a mortgage debt. The immediate controversy arises out of the reorganization in a United
States district court of a large New York guaranty company, another phase of which was before us in Prudence
Corp. v. Geist, 316 U. S. 89.
Petitioner's predecessor, The Prudence Company, Inc.,
loaned money on real estate and issued guaranteed mortgage participation certificates. (For an exposition of the
business details see In re The Westover, Inc., 82 F. 2d 177.)
The enterprise was on a vast scale, running into the hundreds of millions. Our immediate concern is with certificates of participation issued by Prudence in a bond
and mortgage made by Burnside Improvement Company. Prudence guaranteed the certificate holders the
payment of interest and principal when due or within
eighteen months thereafter. Burnside, the mortgagor, defaulted in the payment of an instalment of principal due
January, 1932. After this default, Prudence itself purchased, either directly from the holders or through a concealed brokerage account and usually at a discount, certificates aggregating $431,212.86, approximately 42% of
the amount of outstanding certificates. In June, 1932,
the mortgaged premises securing the Burnside certificates
were conveyed to Amalgamated Properties, Inc., a whollyowned subsidiary of Prudence.
In 1935 Prudence went into reorganization under ยง 77B
of the Bankruptcy Act, 48 Stat. 912, and was adjudicated insolvent in 1938. As part of the Prudence proceed-

652

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

ings, Amalgamated, in 1936, filed a voluntary petition for
reorganization, but the two were later severed. Thereafter, under a reorganization plan confirmed by the District Court, all the assets of Prudence, including the
Burnside certificates reacquired by it, were transferred to
petitioner, Prudence Realization Corporation.
In the Amalgamated proceeding Prudence claimed to
participate in the mortgage on a parity with other Burnside certificate holders. The claim was opposed on the
ground that Prudence, having defaulted on its guaranty,
was not entitled to parity with other holders of certificates.
The bankruptcy court neither decided this question of
parity nor reserved it for decision. It "terminated and
finally closed" the Amalgamated proceeding by confirming a plan which left the claim of participation by Prudence in the Burnside bond and mortgage for adjudication by a "Court of competent jurisdiction." There were
provisions, with which we are not here concerned, for
holding in escrow, pending such an adjudication, the share
claimed by petitioner.
Thereafter, respondents, the trustees under the Burnside plan, and various certificate holders brought this action in the New York Supreme Court to determine petitioner's right to participate as holder of certificates acquired by the insolvent guarantor. Petitioner's claim
for parity of treatment was denied, but this denial was
reversed by the Appellate Division, 266 App. Div. 543,
42 N. Y. S. 2d 528, which in turn was reversed by the Court
of Appeals. It held that state law governed and that New
York subordinated the guarantor's certificates. 292 N. Y.
210, 54 N. E. 2d 367. We brought the case here because
conflict with PrudenceCorp. v. Geist, supra, was strongly
pressed. Precise appreciation is therefore required of the
record now before us compared with that on which the
Geist decision was based.
In the Geist case, the claim of parity by the same petitioner arose in connection with different property and an-

PRUDENCE CORP. v. FERRIS.
650

Opinion of the Court.

other certificate issue, the Zo-Gale issue. In that case
also the question of parity was not settled in the order
of confirmation. But, while it was reserved for a court
of competent jurisdiction, the confirmation order clearly
indicated that the bankruptcy court was reserving jurisdiction in itself. "The court retains jurisdiction to hear
and determine all questions arising under paragraph 7 of
this order"-so ran the terms of the reservation of the
parity question in the Geist case-and the trustees "are
hereby granted leave to apply at any time at the foot of
this order for such adjudication." The trustee, Geist, accordingly applied to the bankruptcy court for an order
adjudicating the rights of the certificate holders and that
court, "In the Matter of a Plan of Reorganization of Amalgamated Properties, Inc., Debtor, in Respect of the ZoGale First Mortgage Participation Certificates" issued an
order to show cause. When the Amalgamated proceeding
with respect to the Zo-Gale property was subsequently
clQsed, the order provided that "these proceedings shall
hereafter be treated as dismissed for all purposes, except
the determination of the questions raised in the pending
motion by A. Geist ...for determination of the relative
priorities . . ." The bankruptcy court had patently retained for decision the question affecting the distribution
of the bankrupt's property, although in all other respects
it had wound up the proceedings. "The bankruptcy act
prescribes its own criteria for distribution to creditors . . . The court of bankruptcy is a court of equity
to which the judicial administration of the bankrupt's
estate is committed, . . . and it is for that court-not
without appropriate regard for rights acquired under rules
of state law-to define and apply federal law in determining the extent to which the inequitable conduct of a
claimant in acquiring or asserting his claim in bankruptcy
requires its subordination to other claims which, in other
respects, are of the same class." Prudence Corp. v. Geist,
supra at 95. Accordingly we held that the district court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

sitting as a bankruptcy court, was under duty to apply
federal and not state law, and that, in the circumstances
of the Geist case, there was "no agreement and no equitable basis for depriving the Prudence Company and its
creditors of the benefits of the usual bankruptcy rule of
equality." Prudence Corp. v. Geist, supra at 97.
This case is not the Geist case. Here the bankruptcy
court neither considered the question of parity nor retained jurisdiction to consider it. The order of confirmation contained no provision for retention of jurisdiction to
decide the parity question as did the Geist order. Nor did
the closing of the reorganization reserve jurisdiction, as
did the Geist closing order. The provisions for disposition
of the impounded funds in case subordination be determined are much more elaborate than the Geist case discloses. In short, while the provisions for adjudication of
the parity question in the Geist case clearly contemplated
determination of it as part of the reorganization proceedings by the bankruptcy court itself, in the present case the
bankruptcy court washed its hands of the problem and left
the parties to litigate the question in another forum. For
it is not questioned that the state court was a "Court of
competent jurisdiction" for adjudicating the claim of
parity.
To be sure, the Securities and Exchange Commission, as
amicus curiae, suggests that the bankruptcy court was in
error in failing to retain jurisdiction for determining this
aspect of distribution. But the different treatment of the
same problem by the same court in the Geist case and in
this, together with acquiescence by the petitioner in the
closing order without seeking a review of the nonretention
of jurisdiction, give ground for believing that the arrangement was the product of bargaining between the parties.
In any event, since no appeal was taken, it is not now open
to find error by the bankruptcy court in failing to retain
jurisdiction. The order confirming the plan of reorganiza-

PRUDENCE CORP. v. FERRIS.
650

Opinion of the Court.

tion is res judicata. Chicot County Dist. v. Baxter State
Bank, 308 U. S. 371, 378.
But it is urged that although the bankruptcy court specifically refused to consider the rights of the parties and
remitted them, plainly enough, to the state courts for their
determination, the rights were to be determined in the
state courts by federal law because the parties had passed
through federal reorganization proceedings. In spite of
an order of final termination, the authority of the bankruptcy court, it is argued, somehow continues to be effective. Despite the fact that neither the bankruptcy court
nor the reorganization statute professes to alter rights
unless disclosed in the plan or in an order, we are asked
to recognize some enveloping cloud of amenability to the
law governing bankruptcy proceedings.
We find no warrant in the statute for so holding. Section 77B, under which this reorganization was accomplished, provides in subsection (g) that upon confirmation
"the provisions of the plan and of the order of confirmation
shall be binding." The rights are thus fixed as the plan
and the order provide and are not otherwise affected. Subsection (h) provides that upon final confirmation the
debtor or its successor corporation "shall put into effect
and carry out the plan and the orders of the judge relative
thereto ... and the property dealt with by the plan...
shall be free and clear of all claims of the debtor, its stockholders and creditors, except such as may consistently with
the provisions of the plan be reserved in the order confirming the plan . . ." The final decree, discharging the
trustees and closing the case, "shall discharge the debtor
from its debts and liabilities, and shall terminate and end
all rights and interests of its stockholders, except as provided in the plan or as may be reserved as aforesaid."
Here the court entered appropriate orders to secure the
execution of the plan and the termination of the proceedings. But the relative priority of participation was passed

656

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., concurring.

323 U. S.

upon neither in the plan nor by the court. Instead, it was
specifically reserved. And it was reserved for determination, as the parties saw fit to have it determined, by the
New York courts without restriction by the federal adjudication. The parties were out of the federal bankruptcy court with their original rights modified by the
terms of the reorganization plan. When they came before
a New York court seeking a determination of their present
rights, that court was obliged to ascertain whether any
rights had been fixed by the reorganization plan and, if
so, to enforce them. Rights not affected by the federal
proceedings the New York court was free to decide according to New York law. The bankruptcy court had refused
to fix the rights of the parties as to the participation of
Prudence-owned Burnside participations, and expressly
left them to be fixed by the New York court as a "Court
of competent jurisdiction." Accordingly, it was for the
New York Court of Appeals to define the governing New
York law.
And since, in the circumstances of this case, New York
law governs, we are not called upon to indicate, it hardly
needs to be added, whether the result would be different were the federal rule for distribution to creditors
applicable.
Affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE.

I concur in the result.
The relative priority of Prudence's participation in the
bankrupt's estate in a 77B reorganization is a federal
right governed by federal not state law. Prudence Corp.
v. Geist, 316 U. S. 89, 95. As the reorganization plan did
not purport to alter that right, but merely provided that it
should be determined by a court of "competent jurisdiction," I cannot conclude that the adoption of the plan
contemplated or effected the alteration of the federal right

PRUDENCE CORP. v. FERRIS.
650

STONE,

C. J., concurring.

by requiring it to be redefined in terms of the law of New
York, or of any other jurisdiction, where the parties might
happen to seek its adjudication.
The fact that a federal right is to be ascertained in a
state rather than in a federal court does not make it any
less the duty of the court to apply federal law. Chesapeake
& Ohio R. Co. v. Martin, 283 U. S. 209, 212-213; Awotin
v. Atlas Exchange Bank, 295 U. S. 209; Brady v. Southern
R. Co., 320 U. S. 476, 479, and cases cited; Illinois Steel
Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 320 U. S. 508, 511, and
cases cited; Steele v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 323
U. S. 192, 204. And a mere grant by the federal court of
permission to the parties to litigate a federal question in a
state court, is not a direction that the question be determined by state law, more than is a general statutory authorization for a suit in the state court on a federal right.
The state court has held that petitioner, the holder of
mortgage participation certificates, is not entitled to share
in the mortgage until the holders of other certificates,
which petitioner has guaranteed, are paid in full. Its
judgment should be affirmed, not because the plan called
for determination of petitioner's rights in the bankrupt's
estate by state rather than federal law, but because in the
circumstances of this case the applicable federal law is the
same as that which the state court has applied. Petitioner
did not, as in the Geist case, acquire its interest in the
mortgage as an original investment before it sold and guaranteed certificated shares in the mortgage, nor did it acquire its own certificates independently of the performance of its obligation as a guarantor of the certificates.
Petitioner is here in the position of a subrogee of a claim
whose payment it has guaranteed. For it acquired its
claim to participate in the mortgage through performance
of its guaranty, by purchase, after default, of the certificates of participation which it had guaranteed.

658

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
323 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

As we recognized in the Geist case, and were at pains
to point out, 316 U. S., at p. 96, such a case is within the
rule of United States v. National Surety Co., 254 U. S. 73,
76; Jenkins v. National Surety Co., 277 U. S. 258; American Surety Co. v. Westinghouse Electric Co., 296 U. S.
133, "that a solvent guarantor or surety of an insolvent's
obligation will not be permitted, either by taking indemnity from his principal or by virtue of his right of subrogation, to compete with other creditors payment of whose
claims he has undertaken to assure, until they are paid in

full."
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concurs in this opinion.

ROSENMAN ET AL.,

EXECUTORS,

v. UNITED

STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 207.. Argued December 15, 1944.-Decided January 29, 1945.
Section 319 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1926, as amended by ยง 810 (a)
of the Revenue Act of 1932, provides that a claim for refund
of a federal estate tax "alleged to have been erroneously or illegally
assessed or collected must be presented to the Commissioner within
three years next after the payment of such tax." Held:
1. The period of limitations did not begin to run from the time
of a remittance which in effect was a deposit and which the Collector placed in a suspense account to the credit of the estate.
Pp. 661-662.
2. As to a balance of the remittance which was applied upon a
deficiency subsequently assessed by the Commissioner, a claim for
refund filed within three years of such application of the balance,
though more than three years from the date of the original remittance, was timely. P. 661.
101 Ct. Cls. 437, 53 F. Supp. 722, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 691, to review a judgment denying

in part a refund of federal estate taxes.

