McKENZIE v. IRVING TRUST CO.
Syllabus.

McKENZIE, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v.
IRVING TRUST CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 188.

Argued December 14, 1944.-Decided January 8,1945.

1. The purpose of the Assignment of Claims Act of October 9, 1940,
54 Stat. 1029, is the protection of the Government and not the
regulation of equities of claimants as between themselves. P. 369.
2. For the purpose of determining whether a transfer is a preference
under § 60a of the Bankruptcy Act, that section provides that the
transfer shall be deemed to have been made "when it became so
far perfected that no bona fide purchaser from the debtor and no
creditor could thereafter have acquired any rights in the property so transferred superior to the rights of the transferee therein."
Since, in the absence of any controlling federal statute, a creditor
or bona fide purchaser could acquire rights in the property transferred by the debtor only by virtue of state law, § 60a thus adopts
state law as the rule of decision for determining the effectiveness
of a transfer and the time when a transfer is deemed to have been
made or perfected. P. 370.
3. In determining in this case that the tranrfer of a check was completed not later than when the debtor endorsed and mailed the
check to its assignee-rather than when the assignee received the
check and credited the proceeds upon an antecedent debt-the
state court applied the proper test under § 60a, and its conclusion
that under state law the transfer was perfected more than four
months before bankruptcy is accepted. Hence the transfer was
not a preference within the meaning of § 60a. P. 371.
4. In this proceeding by the trustee to set aside an alleged preference, the court can not adjudicate upon the present record the claim
of a surety whose claim, if it has one, is adverse and superior to
that of the trustee in bankruptcy and the other creditors, and who
is not a party to the suit. P. 372.
5. Under the federal rule, a subsequent assignee is entitled to retain
assigned moneys which it receives without notice of a prior assignment. Martin v. National Surety Co., 300 U. S. 588, distinguished.
P. 373.
292 N. Y. 347, 55 N. E. 2d 192, affirmed.

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 687, to review the affirmance of a
judgment which dismissed a cause of action in a complaint by the trustee in bankruptcy seeking to set aside an
alleged preference.

Mr. David Morgulas, with whom Messrs. M. Carl
Levine and Albert Foreman were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William A. Onderdonk for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner, trustee in bankruptcy of Graves-Quinn Corporation, the debtor, brought this suit in the Supreme
Court of New York to recover the sum of $150,000 paid by
the debtor to respondent, its creditor. The payment was
alleged to be an unlawful preference under § 60a of the
Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C. § 96. Respondent moved for
summary judgment under Rule 113 of the New York
Rules of Civil Practice, on the ground that the transfer
did not occur within four months of bankruptcy, and
henc was not a preference under § 60a. The Supreme
Court of New York denied the motion, but the Appellate
Division of the Supreme Court reversed, dismissing the
complaint. 266 App. Div. 599, 42 N. Y. S. 2d 551. The
New York Court of Appeals affirmed, 292 N. Y. 347, 55
N. E. 2d 192, holding that the transfer was not made
within four months of bankruptcy.
We granted certiorari on a petition raising questions
important to the administration of the Bankruptcy Act,
only one of which we find it necessary to decide. That
question is whether a check, made payable to the bankrupt and endorsed and mailed by it to respondent more
than four months before bankruptcy, but received by respondent and credited upon the bankrupt's antecedent
debt within the four months, is, by the applicable law, a

McKENZIE v. IRVING TRUST CO.
365

Opinion of the Court.

transfer within the four months period, within the meaning of § 60a.
In September, 1940, the Graves-Quinn Corporation,
later adjudicated a bankrupt, entered into a contract with
the United States, acting through the War Department,
for the'construction of military housing. The required
payment and performance bond was given by a surety to
the Government, and at the same time, October 2, 1940,
the surety took from the debtor as security an assignment of all sums payable on the contract.
Beginning in October, 1940, respondent, a trust company, made loans from time to time to the debtor to
finance its operations under the government contract.
It was agreed that the loans were to be repaid from the
money to be received under the contract. On November
20, 1940, the debtor executed and on November 22 delivered to respondent a written assignment of these moneys
to become due. The assignment was made without at
that time giving the notices and procuring the consent of
the Secretary of War, which, by the Assignment of Claims
Act of October 9, 1940, 54 Stat. 1029, amending R. S.
§ 3477, 31 U. S. C. § 203, were required in order to give
validity to the assignment.'
1 Section 3477 of the Revised Statutes, 31 U. S. C. § 203, declares

that the assignment of any claim upon the Government shall be "absolutely null and void" unless made after the allowance of the claim
and the issue of a warrant for its payment. But by the amendment
of October 9, 1940, it was provided that such assignments of claims
in excess of $1,000 for money due or to become due from an agency
or department of the Government upon contracts entered into with
the Government before the date of the amendment should be valid
when made to a bank or trust company upon notice to the surety on
the contractor's bond, and to certain specified officers of the Government, including the contracting officer or head of the department
concerned, and upon consent of the head of that agency or
department.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

On November 27, 1940, after the assignment, the Government delivered to the debtor its check for $155,865.50
as a progress payment then due upon the contract. The
debtor on that date endorsed the check and mailed it to
respondent, accompanied by its own check for the sum
of $150,000, made payable to respondent and drawn upon
the debtor's account with respondent. On November
28th, which was exactly four months before the petition
in bankruptcy was filed on March 28, 1941, respondent
received the checks and credited $150,000 of the proceeds
of the government check on four promissory notes of
the debtor, aggregating $150,000.
On November 27 respondent sent to the Secretary of
War its assignment of the sums due and to become due on
the contract, and on December 2, gave the other notices
required by the statute regulating assignments of claims
against the United States. On December 5, the assignment was approved by the Secretary of War, and on that
date the conditions of a valid assignment, prescribed by
the statute, had been fully satisfied.
By § 60a of the Bankruptcy Act "a transfer . . . of any
of the property of a debtor to . . . a creditor for or on

account of an antecedent debt, made or suffered by such
debtor while insolvent and within four months before the
filing by or against him of the petition in bankruptcy
I the effect of which transfer will be to enable such
creditor to obtain a greater percentage of his debt than
some other creditor of the same class" is declared to be an
unlawful preference. Only a single issue was raised by
respondent's motion for summary judgment, whether the
debtor's transfer to respondent of $150,000 of the progress
payment by the Government was made and perfected
more than four months before the petition in bankruptcy
was filed.
The Court of Appeals resolved this question in respondent's favor upon two independent grounds. One is that

McKENZIE v. IRVING TRUST CO.
365

Opinion of the Court.

while the assignment was not perfected until December 5,
1940, within the four months period, when the necessary
notices had been given and consent obtained, the assignment was to be regarded as then retroactively validated as
of its date -of November 22, 1940, which was more than,
four months before the bankruptcy. The other ground is
that the transfer became complete on the debtor's endorsement and mailing of the government check to respondent on November 27, more than four months before the
bankruptcy.
As we sustain the judgment on the second ground we
have no occasion to consider the first or to express any
opinion upon it. For the purpose of determining the adequacy of the second ground, it is unnecessary to consider
the effect of the assignment upon the right of respondent,
as an assignee, to demand payment from the Government
or the assignor of the amounts due on the contract. For
here the payment was made by the Government to the
assignor, which paid it to respondent before the assignment
was validated by the requisite notices and consent. The
provisions of the statute governing assignments of claims
against the Government are for the protection of the Government and not for the regulation of the equities of the
claimants as between themselves. Martin v. National
Surety Co., 300 U. S. 588, 594-595. Here, the payment
having been made to the contractor and by it delivered to
respondent before the assignment was perfected, the Government's obligation was disdharged; and the situation
was no different than it would have been if no assignment
had been made. The question is thus presented whether
the endorsement and mailing of the check to respondent
operated as a transfer on the date of mailing, rather than
on the date of its receipt, so that the transfer was made
and perfected before the four months period.
What constitutes a transfer and when it is complete
within the meaning of § 60a of the Bankruptcy Act is

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

necessarily a federal question, since it arises under a federal statute intended to have uniform application throughout the United States. Prudence Corp. v. Geist, 316 U. S.
89, 95, and cases cited; Steele v. Louisville & Nashville
R. Co., 323 U. S. 192, 204. The statute provides its own
definitions. Section 1 (30) of the Bankruptcy Act declares that "'transfer' shall include the sale and every
other . . . mode . . . of disposing of or of parting with
property . . . or with the possession thereof . . ." And
§ 60a provides that a "transfer shall be deemed to have
been made at the time when it became so far perfected
that no bona fide purchaser from the debtor and no creditor could thereafter have acquired any rights in the property so transferred superior to the rights of the transferee
therein . .
In the absence of any controlling federal statute, a
creditor or bona fide purchaser could acquire rights in the
property transferred by the debtor, only by virtue of a
state law. And hence § 60a's "apparent command is to
test the effectiveness of a transfer, as against the trustee,
by the standards which applicable state law would enforce
against a good faith purchaser." Corn Exchange Bank v.
Klauder, 318 U. S. 434, 436-7. See also Benedict v. Ratner, 268 U. S. 353, 359, and cases cited. Section 60a in
this respect, as do numerous other federal statutes, see
Davies Warehouse Co. v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 144, 155-156,
and note 20, and cases cited, thus adopts state law as the
rule of decision. The state standards which control the
effectiveness of a transfer likewise determine the precise
time when a transfer is deemed to have been made or
perfected.
As we have seen, § 1 (30) includes in the term "transfer"
"every . . . mode of . . . parting with property ...
or with the possession thereof." When the debtor endorsed the government check and placed it in the mails,

McKENZIE v. IRVING TRUST CO.
365

Opinion of the Court.

he parted with the possession and intended to part with
the property in it, at a time (before the four months' period) when the transfer of the property to respondent
would not be an unlawful preference. Whether the transfer was perfected on mailing the check thus turns on a
question of state law, to which the highest court of the
state has here given an authoritative answer.2 The Court
of Appeals recognized that only such a "parting with
property" in the check, as would preclude the debtor from
transferring any interest in the check to a creditor or bona
fide purchaser, would perfect the transfer to respondent
within the meaning of § 60a. The court also recognized
that in this respect state law controlled decision. It found
it unnecessary to consider whether a creditor or bona fide
purchaser could have obtained rights in the $150,000, prior
to the endorsement and mailing of the government check
on November 27, since it thought that the "delivery of the
2

The endorsement and mailing of the government check took

place in Boston, Massachusetts. There is no contention that the
substantive law of Massachusetts determines the legal effect of these
acts, nor that that law differs from the law of New York. Hence

it is unnecessary to decide whether the problem of choice of law under
§ 60a is to be resolved by federal standards, or whether that section
also adopts the conflict of laws rules of the forum. If the former
be the case, it would be necessary for this Court to determine whether
the New York Court of Appeals should have followed Massachusetts
law; and if so this Court would be under the duty of making an independent investigation of the Massachusetts law. Cf. Barber v.
Barber, 323 U. S.77, 81; Adam v. Saenger, 303 U. S. 59, 64, and cases
cited. But if the statute adopts the local conflict of laws rules, the
present case would turn on New York law, even though the applicable
rule adopted by New York were the same as the substantive law of
Massachusetts. For "Even where the state of the forum adopts and
applies as its own the law of the state where the injury was inflicted,
the extent to which it shall apply in its own courts a rule of law of
another state is itself a question of local law of the forum." See
Magnolia Petroleum Co. v. Hunt, 320 U. S.430, 445, and cases cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

moneys to the assignee was complete" at that time.' The
state court having applied the proper test under § 60a, we
accept its conclusion that the transfer was made more than
four months before bankruptcy.
Petitioner, relying on Martin v. National Surety Co.,
supra, argues that as a matter of federal law the surety
company, which is a creditor, has rights to the proceeds of
the government contract, superior to those of respondent,
and sufficient to require respondent to relinquish the payment made to it. It does not appear that the surety has
made any such claim. The surety, whose claim, if it has
one, is adverse and superior to that of petitioner and the
other creditors, is not a party to this suit. The affidavits
submitted on the-motion for summary judgment do not
frame any such issue, and we are not pointed to any allegation in them that any amount is due and owing from the
bankrupt to the surety. Hence the claim, if it exists, is not
one which could be adjudicated here.
In any event the affidavits fail to establish the asserted
priority of the surety over respondent. The surety did
not perfect its assignment by giving the notices and procuring the consent required by the statute. It did not receive the proceeds of the contract here in question. They
were paid to respondent which does not appear to have
3 The

Court of Appeals said, 292 N. Y. 347, 358-359: "The test

under the statute as amended in 1938 is, as I have said, whether no
'bona fide purchaser from the debtor and no creditor could thereafter have acquired any rights in the property so transferred superior
to the rights of the transferee therein.' The 'standards which applicable state law would enforce against a good faith purchaser' or against
a creditor must be applied here. . . . It is unnecessary to decide
• . . whether a purchaser for value or a creditor could have obtained
any rights in the moneys until they were paid to the contractor and
the check mailed to the [respondent] on November 27th. It seems
clear that at least from that time the transfer was perfected ..
[From] the time that the check was deposited in the mail . .
delivery of the moneys to the assignee was complete."

U. S. v. GENERAL MOTORS CORP.
365

Syllabus.

had any notice of the prior assignment of the surety.
Under the federal rule, respondent is entitled to retain the
assigned money which it received without notice of the
prior assignment to the surety. Judson v. Corcoran, 17
How. 612; cf. Salem Trust Co. v. Manufacturers' Co., 264
U. S. 182,192-193. The Martincase does not control here,
since the subsequent assignee in that case took with notice
of an earlier assignment and as part of an obviously
fraudulent scheme. These facts, which were sufficient in
that case to require that the .subsequent assignee relinquish the transferred funds, are lacking here. Hence it is
unnecessary to consider whether, as the Court of Appeals

held, the trustee is without standing to assert alleged rights
of the surety.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

dissents.

UNITED STATES v. GENERAL MOTORS CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
-

No. 76. Argued November 16, 17, 1944.-Decided January 8, 1945.
In proceedings to determine the measure of just compensation required by the Fifth Amendment to be made to a leaseholder where
the Government has taken, for part of the unexpired term of a
lease, the occupancy of a warehouse which was equipped for and
used in the leaseholder's business, held:
1. The value of the occupancy is to be ascertained not by treating
what has been taken as an empty warehouse to be leased'for a
long term, but by what would be the market rental value of the
building on a lease by the' long-term tenant to a temporary occupant. P. 381.
The long-term rental Value is admissible as evidence of the
market rental value of the temporary occupancy.
2. The reasonable cost of removing the leaseholder's stored property and preparing the space for occupancy by the Government-including labor, materials, transportation, and possibly the cost of

