386

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. ET
STATES.
NO. 2.

323 U. S.

AL.

V. UNITED

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.*

Argued November 15, 16, 17, 18, 1943. Reargued October 9, 10,
1944.-Decided January 8, 1945.
1. The conclusion that the corporate appellants and certain individual appellants agreed, conspired and combined to monopolize,
and did restrain and monopolize, interstate and foreign commerce,
by acquiring patents covering the manufacture of glassmaking machinery and by excluding others from a fair opportunity to engage
in commerce in such machinery and in the manufacture and distribution of glass products, in violation of the antitrust laws, is supported by the findings and the evidence. Sherman Act, §§ 1 and
2; Clayton Act, § 3. Pp. 401-403.
(a) The conclusion that one of the corporate appellants had not
abandoned the unlawful conspiracy-in view of its subsequent conduct and its continuing to share in the fruits of the conspiracyis supported by the evidence. P. 407.
(b) The decree against four of the individual appellants, who
were directors and officers of a corporation as to which the complaint was dismissed, must be reversed because the allegations of
the bill are insufficient to support a decree against them; the findings do not support the decree as to them; the refusal of findings
requested by the Government exculpates them of participation
in the conspiracy; and the proofs fail to connect them with the
conspiracy. P. 403.
(c) Use by the corporate appellants of their joint patent position
to allocate fields of manufacture and to maintain prices of unpatented glassware violated the antitrust laws. P. 406.
*Together with No. 3, Coming Glass Works et al. v. United States;
No. 4, Owens-Illinois Glass Co. et al. v. United States; No. 5, HazelAtlas Glass Co. et al. v. United States; No. 6, Thatcher Manufacturing Co. et al. v. United States; No. 7, Lynch Corporation et al.
v. United States; No. 8, Ball Brothers Co. et al. v. United States;
No. 9, Glass Container Association of America, Inc. et al. v. United
States; No. 10, Collins v. United States; and No. 11, Fulton et al. v.
United States, also on appeals from the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Ohio.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Syllabus.

2. Upon consideration of objections to provisions of the decree of the
District Court enjoining violations of the antitrust laws, the decree
is vacated and the cause is remanded for further proceedings in
conformity with the opinion of this Court. Pp. 408, 435.
(a) A decree enjoining violations of the antitrust laws may not
impose penalties in the guise of preventing future violations.
P. 409.
(b) A decree of injunction against violations of the antitrust
laws must not be so vague as to put the whole conduct of the defendants' business at the peril of a summons for contempt; must
not enjoin all possible breaches of the law; and must not withdraw
from the defendants the protection of the law of the land. P. 410.
(c) The acts restrained by a decree of injunction must be described specifically therein and not by reference to the bill of
complaint. P. 410.
(d) Though useful pendente lite, the receivership and the impounding of funds, ordered in the case of one of the corporate
appellants, were not necessary to the prescription of appropriate
relief. The receivership should be terminated and the impounded
funds disposed of as herein directed. P. 411.
(e) Out of the royalties paid in by lessees of one of the corporate
appellants, the latter should receive compensation on a quantum
meruit basis for services which it rendered to the lessees. P. 411.
(f) Provisions of the decree requiring each of the appellants to
abstain forever from leasing patented glassmaking machinery, and
compelling each of them if he desires to distribute patented machinery to sell the machine which embodies the patent to everyone
who applies, at a price to be fixed by the court, are confiscatory
in effect and are unwarranted, P. 412.
(g) Provisions of the decree enjoining each of the appellants
from engaging in the distribution of glassmaking machinery or in
the distribution of glassware in interstate commerce unless he
agrees (1) to grant royalty-free licenses under patents now owned;
(2) to grant licenses at reasonable royalties under after-acquired
patents; and (3) to make available to any licensee, at cost plus a reasonable profit, all drawings and patterns relating to the machinery
or methods used in the manufacture of glassware embodied in the
licensed inventions, are confiscatory in effect and are unwarranted.
P. 413.
(h) For violations of the Sherman Act arising from the use of
patent licenses, agreements, and leases, the decisions of this Court
in Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S.488, and B. B. Chemi-

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

323 U. S.

cal Co. v. Ellis, 314 U. S. 495, do not authorize forfeiture of the
patents. P. 415.
(i) A provision of the decree which is vague and would be difficult of application, and which seems not to be addressed to any
practice indulged in or threatened by any of the appellants, should
be modified or eliminated. P. 418.
(j) The corporate appellants should be enjoined from further
prosecution of infringement suits pending at the time this suit was
brought; any alleged infringers who are willing to take nondiscriminatory and nonrestrictive licenses at standard royalties should be
released; and the patent owner should be denied damages and
profits which it might have claimed for past infringement. But
the decree should be without prejudice to future infringement suits
against persons refusing to take licenses after the date of the decree. The decree should not forbid any defendant from seeking
recovery for infringement, occurring after the date of the final
decree, of patents not covering feeders, formers, stackers, lehrs
or processes or methods applicable to any of them. P. 419.
(k) License agreements between the corporate appellants which
are consistent with the views here expressed should be allowed to
stand; those found to be inconsistent should be ordered reformed;
and the appellants should be enjoined from altering the agreements,
or any hereafter made in like terms, without the approval of the
court. P. 420.
(1) The decree should permit any corporate appellant, acting
alone, to lease or sell patented machinery or license the use of
patents, if it so elects, provided always that no discrimination is
practiced and that no restrictive conditions be attached save with
the approval of the court. P. 420.
(m) The decree should order dedication to the public of a patent
which one of the corporate appellants, to be free from the possible threat of suit for infringement, had acquired by assignment
from another. P. 421.
(n) A provision of the decree enjoining certain restrictive provisions in license agreements should be amended to permit any
appellant, corporate or individual, to retain and refuse to license,
to use and refuse to license, or to license with restrictions, any
patent hereafter applied for or acquired, except those applicable
to feeders, formers, stackers and lehrs and processes and methods
applicable thereto. P. 424.
(o) A provision of the decree requiring court approval of "any
agreement between any of the defendants" and "of any license

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

389

Syllabus.

agreement made pursuant to this judgment" is too broad. If retained, it should be restricted to lease or license agreements and
agreements respecting patents and trade practices, production, and
trade relations. P. 424.
(p) A provision- of the: decree enjoining individual appellants
from ownership of securities or evidence of indebtedness of more
than one corporation in the industry should be modified to prohibit acquisition of stocks or bonds of any corporate appellant by
any other such appellant, and to prohibitany individual, appellant
from acquiring a measure Of control, through ownership of stocks
or bonds or otherwise, in a company competing, with that with
which he is officially connected or in a subsidiary or affiliate' of such
competing Company. P. 425.
(q) As to certain 'individual appellants who own substantial
amounts of stock of two of the corporate appellants, a period longer
than two years should be allowed for divestiture of the stock of one
or the other of the corporate appellants; and a proviso depriving
them of the right to vote the stock of one company or the other,
or to trustee the stock of 'one of the corporations, if both stocks are
held longer than the term fixed, would be appropriate. P. 426.
(r) A provision of the decree enjoining individual appellants
from holding an office or directorship in more than one corporation
which manufactures and sells glassware or manufactures or distributes glassmaking machinery should be limited to such relationships in competing companies. P. 426.
(s) Provisions of the decree enjoining acquisition by any of the
corporate appellants of the business or assets of any other corporation (other than a subsidiary), and by any individual appellant of
the business or assets of corporations other than that of which
he is an officer or director, should be limited to acquisition of the
business or assets of competing companies. P. 426.
(t) The appellant trade association, which had been an important instrument of restraint and monopoly, should be ordered dissolved, and the corporate defendants restrained for a period of five
years from forming or joining any such association. P. 428.
(u) An injunction binding. the corporate appellants, their officers,
agents and employees, is sufficient to constrain the individual appellants so long as they remain' in official relations, and to bind
their successors; it is unnecessary to enjoin the individual appellants as individuals. P. 428.
(v) A requirement that all trade information be given to the
public is disapproved. P. 429.

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

323 U. S.

(w) The injunction should permit, as here indicated, usual business transactions not related to violations of the antitrust laws.
P. 430.
(x) A provision of the decree .which in effect prohibits the acquisition by any appellant of any 1atent, or of a restricted license
under any patent, is inappropriate. P. 431. ;
(y) The decree may properiy restrain agreements and combinations whereby patents are applied for and acquired to prevent
others from obtaining patents on improvements which might affect
royalties on basic patents; but the decree may not prohibit corporate appellants from applying for patents covering their own
inventions in the art of glassmaking. P. 432.
(z) A provision of the decree enjoining each of the appellants
from applying for a patent "with the intention of not making use
of the invention within four years" from date of issue can not be
sustained. P. 432.
(aa) The owner of a patent is under no obligation to use the
patent or to grant its use to others. P. 432.
(bb) A provision of the decree requiring the corporate appellants
to submit to surveillance by the Department of Justice and to furnish information with respect to their business should be modified
as was a similar provision in United States v. Bausch & Lomb Co.,
321 U. S. 707. P. 433.
(cc) Where individual appellants have offended against the antitrust laws by acting solely on behalf of, or in the name of, a corporate appellant, the decree need not run against them as individuals. P. 434.
(dd)- A provision of the decree requiring one of the corporate
appellants to cancel certain agreements which excluded the parties
named from entering the glass container business for a period of
years, which restrictions have already been released, is unnecessary. P. 435.
46 F. Supp. 541, modified.

APPEALS under the Expediting Act from a decree en-

joining violations of the antitrust laws.
Mr. John T. Cahill, with whom Messrs. Thurlow M.
Gordon, Stuart S. Wall, Jerrold G. Van Cise, James M.
Carlisle, and E. J. Marshall were on the brief, for appel-

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Counsel for Parties.

lants in No. 2. Mr. Thurlow M. Gordon, on the original
argument, and Mr. Boykin C. Wright, on the reargument,
with whom Messrs. George Nebolsine, Halsey Sayles,
Paul H. Fox, Thomas E. Harris,and John W. Nields were
on the brief, for appellants in No. 3. Mr. Robert T.
Swaine, with whom Messrs. Lloyd T. Williams, Henry A.
Middleton, George B. Turner, Nestor S. Foley, Roy T.
Parker,Jr., E. P. Wood, Albert R. Connelly, and Frederick H. Wood were on the brief, for appellants in No. 4.
Mr. Stephen H. Philbin,with whom Mr. Joseph D. Stecher
was on the brief, for appellants in No. 5. Mr. Ralph
Emery argued the cause on the original argument and
submitted on the reargument for appellants in No. 6. Mr.
Lehr Fess, with whom Mr. Frank S. Lewis was on the
brief, for appellants in No. 7. Mr. E. W. McCallister,
with whom Messrs. Carl F. Schaffer, A. M. Bracken, and
Wilber Owen were on the brief, for appellants in No. 8.
Mr. Luther Day, with whom Messrs. Rufus S. Day and
Thomas 0. Nevison were on the brief, for appellants in
No. 9. Mr. FredE. Fuller, with whom Messrs. George D.
Welles, FredA. Smith, and Hugh C. McLaughlin were on
the brief, for appellants in Nos. 10 and 11.
Assistant Attorney General Cox and Mr. Samuel S.
Isseks, with whom Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and Messrs. Lawrence S. Apsey,
Robert L. Stern, Edward H. Levi, Philip Marcus, Lawrence C. Kingsland, Victor H. Kramer, and Seymour D.
Lewis were on the brief, for the United States.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed by Mr. Walter H. Buck
on behalf of certain medium sized glass manufacturing
companies, urging reversal in part; and by Mr. Arnold
Boyd on behalf of the Knox Glass Companies, urging
affirmance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JusTic
Court.

323 U. S.

ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

These are appeals from a decree' awarding an injunction against violations of § § 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act,
as amended,2 and § 3 of the Clayton Act.' Two questions
are presented. Were violations proved? If so, are the
provisions of the decree right?
The complaint named as defendants 12 corporations
and 101 individuals associated with them as officers or
directors. It was dismissed as to 3 corporations and 40
individuals. The corporations are the leaders in automatic glassmaking machinery and in the glassware industry. The charge is that all the defendants agreed, conspired, and combined to monopolize, and did monopolize
and restrain interstate and foreign commerce by acquiring
patents covering the manufacture of glassmaking machinery, and by excluding others from a fair opportunity
freely to engage in commerce in such machinery and in
the manufacture and distribution of glass products. The
gravamen of the case is that the defendants have cooperated in obtaining and licensing patents covering glassmaking machinery, have limited and restricted the use
of the patented machinery by a network of agreements,
and have maintained prices for unpatented glassware.
The trial lasted 112 days. The court filed an opinion
of 160 pages, 628 findings of fact and 89 conclusions of
law, and entered a decree covering 46 printed pages and
comprising 60 numbered paragraphs. The printed record
contains over 16,500 pages. An opinion of reasonable
length must deal in summary fashion with the facts disclosed by the proofs and leave much of the detailed his'46 F. Supp. 541.
2 15 U. S. C. §§ 1 and 2.
8 15 U. S. C. § 14.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

tory of the transactions to be gleaned from the opinion
below.
. In 1912 Hartford-Fairmont Company was organized to
combine the activities of two existing companies interested in glass manufacture with those of a group of engineers who desired to obtain and exploit patents for
automatic glassmaking machinery. The defendant Corning Glass Works was, at that time, engaged primarily in
the production and distribution of incandescent bulbs,
sign and optical ware, heat-resisting ware and other specialty glassware. Its field may be defined roughly as the
pressed and blown field, or the noncontainer field. It has
not made, and does not now make, containers save a
limited amount of tumblers. In 1909 persons interested
in Corning organized Empire Machine Company as a
patent holding and developing company.
The defendant Owens-Illinois Glass Company (hereinafter called Owens) is a large manufacturer of glass. Mr.
Owens of that company produced the first fully automatic
machine for blowing bottles, which is known as a suction
type machine. He was interested in companies engaged
in developing and manufacturing this type of machine
and exercising the rights represented by the Owens and
related patents. From about 1904 the Owens group followed the policy of granting exclusive licenses, in limited
fields, for the manufacture of glassware by the suction
process. Owens itself was, and is, mainly interested in
what is known as narrow neck container ware. Prior to
the Owens inventions glassmaking had been largely a
hand process. Thereafter, due to Owens' restrictive licensing policy, many glass manufacturers were threatened
with extinction unless some other competing machine
could be devised. Ultimately a process, called suspended
gob feeding, was invented, which was more economical
for certain ware than the suction process, and could be

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

.323 U. S.

applied in the manufacture of diversified glassware. The
introduction of the gob feeder machine threatened Owens'
domination of the glass machinery field and Owens, in
self-protection, obtained patents and patent rights on gob
feeders and licensed some companies for their use.
Hartford-Fairmont was interested in the development
of the gob feeder. It applied for some patents and acquired others. In the meantime, it licensed gob feeder
machinery, as Owens had done with the suction machine,
by restricting its use to the manufacture of specified
ware. Empire owned certain patent applications which
were in interference with Hartford-Fairmont gob feeder
applications.
June 30, 1916 Hartford-Fairmont and Empire made an
agreement whereby Empire was given an exclusive license
to use Hartford-Fairmont's patents for pressed and blown
glassware and Hartford-Fairmont was given an exclusive
license to use Empire's patents for production of containers. Thus Corning obtained exclusive rights, under the
patents, for Corning's line of ware,-pressed and blown
glass,-and Hartford obtained the patent rights of both
companies in respect of other glassware. Negotiations
led to agreements, October 6, 1922, whereby HartfordEmpire (hereinafter called Hartford) was formed and
took over all assets of Hartford-Fairmont and of Empire
relating to glass machinery. Empire received 43% of
the stock of the company and Corning retained approximately the same exclusive interest that Empire had enjoyed under the 1916 agreement. Hartford retained
approximately the same rights it had obtained from Empire in 1916 subject to a shop right in Corning which has
not been exercised. Empire was dissolved in 1941.
After 1916 Hartford-Fairmont (and its successor Hartford) and Owens were competitors in the gob feeding field;
their applications were in interference in the Patent Office
with each other and with those of other applicants; and

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

they were in litigation. As a result of negotiations for a
settlement of their disputes, they entered into an agreement April 9, 1924, whereby Owens granted Hartford an
exclusive license under Owens' patents for gob feeder and
forming machines and Hartford granted Owens a nonexclusive, nonassignable, and nondivisible license to make
and use machines and methods embodying patents then
or thereafter owned or acquired by Hartford for the manufacture of glassware, but Owens was not to sell or license
gob feeding machinery and was excluded from the pressed
and blown field previously reserved to Corning. Owens
was to receive one-half of Hartford's divisible income from
licenses over and above $600,000 per annum. Owens retained a veto power on Hartford's granting new licenses
on machines embodying Owens' inventions. This provision was eliminated in 1931. The agreement left Owens
in full control of its patented suction process.
As soon as the agreement had been made, Hartford and
Owens combined to get control of all other feeder patents.
In this endeavor they pooled the efforts of their legal
staffs and contributed equally to the purchase of patents
and the expenses of litigation.
While patent claims upon applications controlled by
Hartford and Owens were pending in the Patent Office,
Hartford purchased, under the joint arrangement, certain feeder patents and applications belonging to outsiders, and persons to whom feeders had been sold or
licensed by such outsiders were persuaded to take licenses
from Hartford. As a result of Hartford's and Owens' joint
efforts in connection with patent applications and purchases of applications and patents of others, Hartford
obtained what it considered controlling patents on gob
feeders in 1926.
Hazel-Atlas Glass Company (hereinafter called Hazel)
was second to Owens in the manufacture and sale of glass
containers. It had been using feeders of its own design

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

and manufacture. To build up further patent control,
to discourage use of machinery not covered by their patents, and to influence glassmakers to take licenses under
Hartford's inventions, Hartford and Owens desired that
Hazel should become a partner-licensee. In 1924 they
negotiated with Hazel to this end and offered to return to
Hazel a substantial portion of any royalties it would have
to pay as a licensee. No agreement was reached and Hartford brought infringement suits against Hazel and its
subsidiaries. One Circuit Court of Appeals decided favorably to Hazel; another favorably to Hartford. Shortly
after the latter decision, Hartford and Owens, in order
to buttress the patent situation, Dersuaded Hazel to make
a settlement;
As of June 1, 1932, Hartford, Owens, and Hazel executed a series of agreements. Hartford licensed Hazel
under Hartford's patents, excluding from the license the
pressed and blown field reserved to Corning and with restrictions against sale or license by Hazel to anyone else.
Hazel licensed Hartford under all its glass machinery patents, present and future, to January 3, 1945. Hazel paid
Hartford $1,000,000 and agreed to pay Hartford royalties,
and Hartford agreed that Hazel and Owens should each
receive one-third of Hartford's net income from royalties
and license fees over and above $850,000 per annum.
Hartford and Owens readjusted their contractual status
to conform it to the agreements with Hazel. Owens maintained control of its own suction inventions. It confirmed to Hazel its existing rights under earlier agreements
to use these. Owens obtained an option either to purchase, or to become licensee, of any suction inventions
controlled by Hartford and agreed, in event of such acquisition, to permit Hazel to use them. Owens and Hazel
had the option, on notice, to terminate their contracts with
Hartford but agreed mutually to protect each other in
such event. The result of this combination was that

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

397

Opinion of the Court.

resistance to Hartford's licensing campaign disappeared
and practically the entire industry took licenses from
Hartford.
Thatcher Manufacturing Company, a large manufacturer of milk bottles, early obtained an exclusive license
to manufacture them on the Owens suction machine. In
1920 Thatcher secured the exclusive right to manufacture
milk bottles on Hartford's paddle needle feeder and milk
bottle forming machine. It pressed for like rights under
Hartford's later device, the single feeder. Though refusing the grant, Hartford assured Thatcher that it would
be given every consideration in the grant of further
licenses. By a supplemental agreement of December
1, 1925, Hartford, in view of its "moral obligation" to
Thatcher, agreed to pay and, until January 1, 1936,
allowed Thatcher a rebate on a certain portion of Thatcher's production, and, in 1928, agreed to give Thatcher the
refusal of any exclusive license on feeders and formers for
production of milk bottle. In 1936 a new agreement was
made whereby Hartford agreed that, so long as Thatcher
manufactured 750,000 gross per annum, Hartford would
grant no other license for manufacture of milk bottles.
Ball Brothers, the largest manufacturer of domestic
fruit jars, had used machines of its own design as well
as the Owens suction machines. under license, but had
never taken any license from Hartford. In 1933 Ball took
a license from Hartford, obtaining all the residual rights
of Hartford for the manufacture of fruit jars, and, inter
,alia, granted Hartford an option to take licenses on all
Ball's patents for glass machinery then owned or thereafter acquired. After discussion as to the rights of Hazel
and Owens to manufacture fruit jars, it was proposed that
they be limited by written agreement, Hazel to 300,000
gross and Owens to 100,000 gross annually. It was decided not to have a written agreement but both have
generally kept within- these limits. When the complaint

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

was filed Ball Brothers manufactured approximately
54.5% of all the fruit jars manufactured and sold in the
United States, Hazel 17.6%, Owens 6.4%, and an outsider, using a machine on which the patents had expired,

21.5%.
In granting licenses under the pooled patents Hartford
always reserved the rights within Corning's field. Further,
it not only limited its licensees to certain portions of the
container field but, in many instances, limited the amount
of glassware which might be produced by the licensee
and, in numerous instances, as a result of conferences
with Owens, Hazel, Thatcher and Ball, refused licenses
to prevent overstocking the glassware market and to
"stabilize" the prices at which such ware was sold.
In the automatic manufacture of glassware, other machines are used in connection with the feeders. These
are known as forming machines, stackers, and lehrs. The
purpose of Hartford and Owens, participated in by the
other three large manufacturers mentioned, was that there
should be gathered into the pool patents covering and
monopolizing these adjunct machines so that automatic
glass manufacture, without consent of the parties to the
pool, would become difficult if not impossible.
Several forming machines not covered by Hartford
patents were on the market. Without going into detail,
it is sufficient to say that, by purchases of patents and
manufacturing plants, and by an agreement with Hartford's principal competitor, Lynch Manufacturing Company, the field was divided between Hartford and Lynch
under restrictions which gave Hartford control. In the
upshot it became impossible to use Hartford feeders with
any other forming machine than one licensed by Hartford or used by its consent, and, as respects stackers and
lehrs, Hartford attained a similar dominant status.
In 1935 certain new agreements were made. Though
the 1932 agreement between Hartford and Hazel was sub-

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

399

Opinion of the Court.

stantially unaffected, the contract relationships between
Hartford and Owens were altered. The latter surrendered
its right to one-third of Hartford's divisible royalty and
license income in consideration of Hartford's promise to
pay $2,500,000 in quarterly instalments. Owens extended
the term of Hartford's license under certain Owens inventions and Hartford granted Owens a royalty-free, nonexclusive license under all Hartford's suction patents for
the life of the patents, excluding, however, glassware in
Corning's field. Other unimportant changes were made in
existing contracts. Owens and Hazel thereupon amended
their agreements so as to protect Hazel in event the contract relations between Owens and Hartford should be
altered.
Owens insists that, by the 1935 agreements, it terminated all its relations with others which could violate
the antitrust statutes. But the 1935 agreements left Hartford in undisputed control of the gob feeder field, and
Owens in like control of the suction field. And they evidently relied on the situation which had been built up,
their mutual interests, and other factors, as sufficient to
guarantee continuance of existing restraints and monopolies without the necessity of formal contracts. The District Court found Owens did not abandon the conspiracy in
1935 and there is evidence to support the conclusion.
In 1919 the Glass Container Association of America
was formed. Prior to 1933 its members produced 82%
of the glass containers made in the United States and since
have produced 92%. Since 1931 (except while the National Industrial Recovery Act was in force) the Association has had a statistical committee of seven, on which
Owens, Hazel, Thatcher, and, since 1933, Ball were represented. These appellants also were represented in the
Board of Directors. Hartford, though not a member, has
closely cooperated with the officers of the association in
efforts to discourage outsiders from increasing produc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

tion of glassware and newcomers from entering the field.
The court below, on sufficient evidence, has found that
the association, through its statistical committee, assigned
production quotas to its members and that they and Hartford were zealous in seeing that these were observed.
In summary, the situation brought about in the glass
industry, and existing in 1938, was this: Hartford, with
the technical and financial aid of others in the conspiracy,
had acquired, by issue to it or assignment from the owners,
more than 600 patents. These, with over 100 Corning
controlled patents, over 60 Owens patents, over 70 Hazel
patents, and some 12 Lynch patents, had been, by crosslicensing agreements, merged into a pool which effectually
controlled the industry. This control was exercised to
allot production in Corning's field to Corning, and that
in restricted classes within the general container field to
Owens, Hazel, Thatcher, Ball, and such other smaller
manufacturers as the group agreed should be licensed.
The result was that 94% of the glass containers manufactured in this country on feeders and formers were made
on machinery licensed under the pooled patents.
The District Court found that invention of glassmaking machinery had been discouraged, that competition in
the manufacture and sale or licensing of such machinery
had been suppressed, and that the system of restricted
licensing had been employed to suppress competition in
the manufacture of unpatented glassware and to maintain
prices of the manufactured product. The findings are
full and adequate and are supported by evidence, much
of it contemporary writings of corporate defendants or
their officers and agents.
In 1938 the Temporary National Economic Committee
investigated the glassmaking industry. Many of the
facts disclosed in this record were developed. Subsequently this suit was brought and, in pretrial conferences,
the Government stated its view as to the terms of agree-

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

ments and the practices it deemed illegal. The principal
corporate appellants had made some alterations in their
arrangements and, after institution of suit,-and on occasions up to submission of the case on the proofs,-made
further modifications on their own responsibility, and
without concurrence of the appellee or the judge, in an
effort to remedy alleged illegal conditions.
As a consequence, when the case stood for decision,
the situation was as follows: The restrictions in the 1935
agreement between Hartford and Owens were removed,
the exclusive provision, and the exclusions of the manufacture of certain glassware embodied in the 1935 agreements between Owens and Hazel were waived by Owens.
Ball had surrendered its residual exclusive right for fruit
jars and released a claim against Hartford thereunder for
$425,000 in consideration of Hartford surrendering its
option to acquire any Ball feeder inventions. Hartford
withdrew the exclusive features of all its licenses of glass
machinery. Hartford retained dominance of the gob
feeder field. Owens, although its basic patent had expired, continued, by virtue of improvement patents, to
dominate the suction field. Owens, Lynch, and Hartford
were the leaders, if not altogether dominant in the forming machine field.
In July 1939 the Association changed the nature of its
statistical reports which the court found were in reality
assignments of quotas, and professed to have abandoned
a voluntary exchange of statistical data which had previously taken place at committee or general meetings. It
then adopted a form of statistical statement eliminating
all forecasts and confined its reports to past performances
of the members.
We affirm the District Court's findings and conclusions
that the corporate appellants combined in violation of the
Sherman Act, that Hartford and Lynch contracted in
violation of the Clayton Act, and that the individual ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

pellants with exceptions to be noted participated in the
violations in their capacities as officers and directors of
the corporations.
Certain individual appellants insist that the finding
that they were parties to the conspiracy must be set aside.
In No. 10, Isaac J. Collins appeals from that portion of
the decree which adjudges him a party to the conspiracy
and grants relief against him, and, in No. 11, Fulton,
Fisher, and Dilworth challenge their inclusion in the
decree.
When suit was instituted Collins was president of, and
Fulton, Fisher, and Dilworth were officially connected
with, Anchor Hocking Glass Company. All had been officers, directors,' and stockholders of companies which
Anchor Hocking absorbed. Anchor Hocking is, and its
predecessors were, manufacturers of glassware. None were
holders of machine patents or in the glass machine business. In the bill of complaint the charges against individuals were made by alleging that a company, and certain
individual defendants connected with it, had become parties to the conspiracy. The bill charged that in 1937
Anchor Hocking and certain defendants, being its officers
and directors, joined the conspiracy. The appellants in
question were named as amongst these Anchor Hocking
defendants and were not elsewhere in the bill specifically
charged with otherwise participating in the conspiracy.
At the close of the Government's case motions were
made to dismiss the bill as to Anchor Hocking and all
the directors and officers of that company, including Collins, Fulton, Fisher, and Dilworth, on the ground that
the Government had failed to prove any participation
by them in the alleged conspiracy. The court granted
the motion with respect to all of them except Collins.
Thereupon these defendants withdrew and did not participate further in the trial. Some months later, on a
motion of the Government for rehearing of the order of

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

403

Opinion of the Court.

dismissal, the court refused to alter its order with respect
to Anchor Hocking or the defendants associated with it,
save only Fulton, Fisher, and Dilworth. As to them, it
granted rehearings and restored them as defendants of
record. When the findings and conclusions were entered
these appellants were named as participants in the conspiracy and were included in the injunctions embodied in
various sections of the decree.
We think the decree against them must be reversed for
want of allegations in the bill sufficient to support a decree against them; because the findings made do not support the decree as to them; because the refusal of fin.dings
requested by the Government exculpates them of participation in the conspiracy; and, finally, because the proofs
fail to connect them with it.
Fulton, Fisher, and Dilworth each hold stock of Hartford which they acquired many years ago. A company in
which they were interested owned Hartford stock and
pledged it under a mortgage. The company got into
difficulties, the mortgage was in default, and they and
others took over the pledged Hartford stock for cash so
as to put the company in funds to refinance its mortgage.
The three appellants are amongst the two hundred or
more stockholders of Hartford. The bill does not, and
could not, charge them in their capacity as stockholders
of Hartford, as parties to the conspiracy, and they are
not to be enjoined by reason of their stock holdings in
Hartford.
As we have said, they were officers and directors of certain predecessor companies taken over by Anchor Hocking,
which were not charged in the bill as participants in the
conspiracy. Anchor Hocking was so charged and these
appellants and other individuals were charged in the bill
to have been, and then to be, officers and directors participating in the direction and management of Anchor
Hocking. The complaint adds: "Such individual defend-

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

ants have approved, authorized, ordered, and done some
or all the acts herein alleged to have been performed by
defendant Anchor Hocking." They are not otherwise
specifically charged with participating in the conspiracy.
It would seem, therefore, that when Anchor Hocking was
found not to have participated the only basis for charging
them disappeared. Moreover, the Government's proofs
went no farther than to show that these appellants acted
in the business affairs of Anchor Hocking. There is no
proof that they conspired or cooperated with other companies parties to the conspiracy, or with other individuals
who were officers and directors of such corporations. The
only findings as to all are to the effect that they have
been officers and directors of Anchor Hocking and its
predecessors, and stockholders of Hartford and, as to one,
that, in addition, as a Hartford-Fairmont stockholder, he
signed the agreement in 1922 for the formation of Hartford-Empire. The Government requested the court to
find, with respect to them, a number of facts which, if
found, would have connected them with the conspiracy.
The court refused the requests. Nowhere in the findings.
or in the opinion is any reason given why these appellants
should be included in the injunction. As to them, the
decree must be reversed.
Anchor Hocking was a licensee of Hartford machinery.
The appellant Collins thought the royalty charged was
excessive and complained repeatedly about it; and, believing that his company was free to make glass of any
character on any kind of machinery, he complained about
the exclusive features of the license. He repeatedly
aroused the resentment of Hartford and some of the
other participants in the conspiracy by his assertion of
the purpose to use machinery and to manufacture glassware in ways they thought contrary to his company's
rights as a licensee. There were even discussions as to

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

405

Opinion of the Court.

whether the company should be sued. This evidence is
uncontradicted.
Collins is a stockholder of Hartford. He acquired his
original stock interest in the same way that Fulton, Fisher,
and Dilworth did. In 1926 he was elected a director, and
remained such until 1937, when he resigned. This was
prior to the T. N. E. C. hearing in which the Hartford
licensing system was investigated and prior to the institution of suit. There is no evidence or finding of any reasonable likelihood that he will resume the directorship.
Moreover, the bill charges that Anchor Hocking and the
individuals connected with it entered the conspiracy in
1937.
The bill does not charge Collins with any act as officer
or director of, or as participant in the direction and management of, Hartford. The only charge against him is
in respect of his connection with Anchor Hocking. The
evidence is that Collins was an irregular attendant at
directors' meetings of Hartford; that he was not on any
committee of the board which had direct contact with
the management and patent affairs of Hartford; that he
did not know of the preferred terms under which Owens
and Hazel were licensed by Hartford until the matter
was disclosed in the T. N. E. C. hearings and then criticized the arrangement. There is no evidence that, as a
director of Hartford, he knew, approved; or voted in favor
of any of the actions taken pursuant to the conspiracy.
On the contrary, the evidence is uncontradicted that he
repeatedly advocated more liberal licensing by Hartford
and thought its royalties too high. As in the case of the
other appellants mentioned, the Government requested
findings of fact which, if made, would have spelled out
a connection between Collins and the other conspirators
but these were refused by the judge. Collins is found
to have been, and still to be, a member of the Association's

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

statistical committee, but the bill does not charge him
individually with any conduct in that relation. Of
course, any injunction against the Association and its officers and agents will bind him so long as he remains in
that relationship. Two other findings as to his activities
as a director of Hartford, and as president of General
Glass Company, touch matters as to which the bill of complaint is silent and concerning which the evidence is not
persuasive of participation in any conspiracy charged or
proved. We are of opinion that as to Collins, the bill
should be dismissed.
I
Little need be said concerning the legal principles which
vindicate the District Court's findings and conclusions as
to the corporate appellants and the individual appellants
who as officers or directors participated in the corporate
acts which forwarded the objects of the conspiracy. As
was said in Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States,
226 U. S. 20, 49:
"Rights conferred by patents are indeed very definite
and extensive, but they do not give any more than other
rights an universal license against positive prohibitions. The Sherman law is a limitation of rights, rights
which may; be pushed to evil consequences and therefore
restrained."
The difference between legitimate use and prohibited
abuse of the restrictions incident to the ownership of patents by the pooling of them is discussed in Standard Oil
Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 163. Application of the
tests there announced sustains the District Court's decision. It is clear that, by cooperative arrangements and
binding agreements, the appellant corporations, over a
period of years, regulated and suppressed competition in
the use of glassmaking machinery and employed their

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

joint patent position to allocate fields of manufacture
and to maintain prices of unpatented glassware.
The explanations offered by the appellants are unconvincing. It is said, on behalf of Hartford, that its business, in its inception, was lawful and within the patent
laws; and that, in order to protect its legitimate interests
as holder of patents for automatic glass machinery, it
was justified in buying up and fencing off improvement
patents, the grant of which, while leaving the fundamental
inventions untouched, would hamper their use unless
tribute were paid to the owners of the so-called improvements which, of themselves, had only a nuisance value.
The explanation fails to account for the offensive and
defensive alliance of patent owners with its concomitant
stifling of initiative, invention, and competition.
Nor can Owens' contention prevail that it long ago
abandoned any cooperation with the other corporate defendants and has been free of any trammel to unrestricted
competition either in the machinery or glass field. Owvens
remained active in the association. It remained dominant
in the suction field. It continued in close touch with
Hartford and with other large manufacturers of glassware who were parties to the conspiracy. The District
Court was justified in finding that the mere cancellation
of the written word was not enough, in the light of subsequent conduct, to acquit Owens of further participation
in the conspiracy.
Individual appellants, except Collins, Fulton, Fisher,
and Dilworth, who were officers or directors of corporate
appellants each did one or more acts, such as negotiating,
voting for, or executing agreements which constituted
steps in the progress of the conspiracy. To this extent
they participated in violations of the statutes. Some
were more active and played a more responsible role than
others.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

II
The Government sought the dissolution of Hartford.
The court, however, decided that a continuance of certain
of Hartford's activities would be of advantage to the glass
industry and denied, for the time being, that form of relief. The court was of opinion, however, that the long
series of transactions and the persistent manifestations
of a purpose to violate the antitrust statutes required
the entry of a decree which would preclude the resumption
of unlawful practices. It was faced, therefore, with the
difficult problem of awarding an injunction which would
insure the desired end without imposing punishments or
other sanctions for past misconduct, a problem especially
difficult in view of the status and relationship of the
parties.
At the trial the Government stated that in this suit it
was not attacking the validity of any patent or claiming
any patent had been awarded an improper priority.
At the time of the District Court's decision, Hartford
had reduced the royalties of all its licensees to its then
schedule of standard royalties so that all stood on an
equal basis so far as license fees were concerned. Government counsel did not assert, or attempt to prove, that
these royalties were not reasonable in amount.
Owens, as respects suction invention licenses, had removed all restrictive clauses; Hartford had done t he same
with respect to all its glass machinery licenses and so had
Hartford and Lynch with respect to forming machine
licenses. At the moment, therefore, no licensee was restricted either as to kind or quantity of glassware it might
manufacture by use of the patented machines, and no
patent owner was restricted by formal agreement as to
the use or licensing of its patents.
Just before the trial, Hartford conveyed three patents
to Corning and complaint was made of this transaction.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

Coming paid a substantial sum for the transfer, evidently
to prevent Hartford's obstructing Corning's free and untrammeled use of its own patents. Two of the assigned
patents have expired and Corning professes its willingness
to dedicate the third to the public.
The association had ceased to allot quotas amongst the
glass manufacturers or to furnish advance information
or make recommendations to its members. The licensing
system of Hartford remained that of leasing machinery
built for it embodying the patented inventions. Rentals
consisted of standard royalties on production. Under this
system Hartford rendered a service in the repair, maintenance, and protection of the machines, which is valuable, if not essential, to the users. This was the status
with which the court had to deal.
The applicable principles are not doubtful. The Sherman Act provides criminal penalties for its violation, and
authorizes the recovery of a penal sum in addition to
damages in a civil suit by one injured by violation. It
also authorizes an injunction to prevent continuing violations by those acting contrary to its proscriptions. The
present suit is in the last named category and we may not
impose penalties 4 in the guise of preventing future violations. This is not to say that a decree need deal only with
the exact type of acts found to have been committed 5
or that the court should not, in framing its decree, resolve
all doubts in favor of the Government,6 or may not prohibit acts which in another setting would be unobjectionable. But, even so, the court may not create, as to the
defendants, new duties, prescription of which is the function of Congress, or place the defendants, for the future,
"in a different class than other people," as the Govern4

Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 77-78.
5Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436, 461.
6
Local 167 v. United States, 291 U. S. 293, 299.

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U.S.

ment has suggested. The decree must not be "so vague
as to put the whole conduct of the defendants' business
at the peril of a summons for contempt"; enjoin "all possible breaches of the law"; ' or cause the defendants hereafter not "to be under the protection of the law of the
land."'
With these principles in mind we proceed to
examine the terms of the decree entered. No reference
will be made to paragraphs as to which the appellants do
not object if any decree is to be entered, nor to those concerning which we think objection is not well founded.
The decree must be modified to eliminate the appellants
Collins, Dilworth, Fulton, and Fisher.
Paragraph 1 (D) should be modified to limit its coverage to the United States, and clause (a) should be
stricken as too indefinite for enforcement.
The Government concedes that paragraph 5 should
be modified to confine to heat-resistant ware the adjudication that Corning, Hartford, and Empire, and the individual defendants associated with each, have monopolized and attempted to monopolize trade in violation
of § 2 of the Sherman Act. This involves exclusion from
the paragraph of reference to laboratory, paste mold, and
electrical ware. To comport with the record the phrase
"ovenware" should be substituted for "heat-resistant
ware."
The Government also agrees to the elimination of paragraph 9, which generally enjoins the appellants from violations "as charged in the complaint." This concession
is required by statute, by the Rules of Civil Procedure,
and by our decisions.'
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 396; Labor Board v.
Express Publishing Co., 312 U. S. 426, 433, 435-6.
1 New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n,
200 U. S. 361, 404; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, supra, 80.
9 Rule 65 (d), 28 U. S. C. A. following § 723c; § 19 of the Clayton
Act, 38 Stat. 738i 28 U. S. C. § 383; Swift & Co. v. United States,
196 U. S. 375, 396, 401.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

The court appointed a receiver for Hartford pendente
lite. By paragraphs 10 to 20 of the final decree it continued him in office and gave directions as to his administration of Hartford's affairs, including certain actions to
be taken to effectuate features of the decree affecting Hartford's business and licenses, which will later be described,
and meantime to continue the receipt of royalties under
existing licenses, these to be repaid to the licensees on the
decree becoming final. The court also ordered the impounding of the sums payable by Hazel to Hartford, and
by Hartford to Hazel, under the 1932 agreement, until the
decree should become final. Ball Brothers was ordered
to pay into court the $425,000 received from Hartford
pursuant to the amendment, August 1, 1940, of Ball's
feeder license agreement, but no disposition of the fund
was directed (Paragraph 44). Corning was directed to
pay into court the moneys received by it from Hartford
in connection with the amending agreements of September 23 and December 1, 1940, and that fund is held by the
clerk pending the further order of the court (Paragraph
45-A).
While useful for the preservation of rights pending
the determination of this litigation, in the light of what
is hereafter said as to the substantive provisions of the
decree, the receivership and the impounding of funds were
not necessary to the prescription of appropriate relief.
The receivership should be wound up and the business
returned to Hartford. The royalties paid to the receiver
by Hartford's lessees may, unless the District Court finds
that Hartford has, since the entry of the receivership
decree, violated the antitrust laws, or acted contrary to
the terms of the final decree as modified by this opinion,
be paid over to Hartford. In any event Hartford should
receive out of these royalties compensation on a quantum
meruit basis, for services rendered to lessees. The other
funds paid into court and impounded in the registry should
be repaid to those who paid them into court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

Paragraphs 21, 22, and 23 apply to the corporate defendants and to any of the individual defendants who
shall hereafter engage in the business of distributing glassware machinery. They forbid any disposition or transfer
of possession of such machinery by any means other than
an outright sale, and require Hartford to offer in writing
to sell each of the present lessees all the machinery now
under lease to such lessee at a reasonable price to be fixed
in consideration of the fees and royalties heretofore paid,
any dispute as to price to be settled by the court. All
of the corporate defendants and the individual defendants
are required, if they engage in the business of distributing
glassmaking machinery, to file a writing with the court
agreeing to offer, and to continue to offer, to sell any machinery used in the manufacture of glassware to any applicant at reasonable and equal prices and upon reasonable
and equal terms and conditions.
All of the appellants attack these provisions. A common ground is that this court has held that the lease of
a patented machine is a lawful method of exercising the
exclusive patent right of practicing or using the invention,10 and that effective relief may be afforded without
destroying the appellants' property rights in the patents
they own.
Hazel, Thatcher, and Ball object to the injunction directed to them on the ground that none of them has ever
been in the business of selling, licensing, or distributing
such machinery. The Government replies that the injunction is intended only to prevent them from again
10 United States v. United Shoe Machinery Co., 247 U. S. 32; United

Shoe Machinery Corp. v. United States, 258 U. S. 451, 462. In this
case the court divided on the question of the legality of certain terms
of the leases in question, but the dissenting justices did not suggest
that a lease was not an appropriate method of exercising rights under
the patent. Cf. International Business Machines Corp. v. United
States, 298 U. S. 131.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

setting up a patent pool and monopolizing the patented
inventions. The decree should enjoin the defendants
from setting up such a pool or combining or hereafter
agreeing to monopolize the glass machinery or the glassware industry, as we think it does in other paragraphs.
But the decree as entered requires that each of the defendants must hereafter forever abstain from leasing a
patented machine, no matter what the date of the invention, and compels each of them if he desires to distribute patented machinery to sell the machine which
embodies the patent to everyone who applies, at a price
to be fixed by the court. The injunction as drawn is not
directed at any combination, agreement or conspiracy.
It binds every defendant forever irrespective of his connection with any other or of the independence of his
action.
Paragraph 24 enjoins each of the corporate and individual appellants from engaging in the distribution of
machinery used in glass manufacture or in the distribution of glassware in interstate commerce unless each flies
with the court an agreement (a) to license, without royalty or charge of any kind, and for the life of all patents,
any applicant to make, to have made for it, and to use
any number of machines and methods embodied in inventions covered by any patent or patent application now
owned or controlled by such defendant; (b) to license,
at a reasonable royalty (to be fixed by the court, in case
of dispute) any applicant to make, have made for it, and
to use any number of machines and methods in the manufacture of glassware embodying , inventions covered by
patents hereafter applied for or owned or controlled by
any defendants; (c) to make available to any licensee,
under "(a)" and "(b)," at cost, plus a reasonable profit,
all drawings and patterns "relating to the machinery or
methods used in the manufacture of glassware" em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S

bodied in the licensed inventions (with immaterial
exceptions).
Since the provisions of paragraphs 21 to 24 inclusive, in
effect confiscate considerable portions of the appellants'
property, we think they go beyond what is required to
dissolve the combination and prevent future combinations of like character. It is to be borne in mind that the
Government has not, in this litigation, attacked the validity of any patent or the priority ascribed to any by the
Patent Office, nor has it attacked, as excessive or unreasonable, the standard royalties heretofore exacted by Hartford. Hartford has reduced all of its royalties to a uniform scale and has waived and abolished and agreed to
waive and abolish all restrictions and limitations in its
outstanding leases so that every licensee shall be at liberty
to use the machinery for the manufacture of any kind
or quantity of glassware comprehended within the decree.
Moreover, if licenses or assignments by any one of the
corporate defendants to any other still contain any offensive provision, such provision can, by appropriate injunction, be cancelled, so that the owner of each patent
will have unrestricted freedom to use and to license, and
every licensee equally with every other will be free of
restriction as to the use of the leased or licensed machinery, method or process, or the articles manufactured
thereon or thereunder.
It is suggested that there is not confiscation since Hartford might, with the later consent of the court, sell its
patents. Under the decree as entered below nothing can
be obtained by Hartford for the use of its patents and
we cannot speculate as to what might be the ultimate
adjustments made by the trial court in the decree.
If, as suggested, some of Hartford's patents were improperly obtained, or if some of them were awarded a
priority to which the invention was not entitled, avenues

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

415

Opinion of the Court.

are open to the Government to raise these questions and
to have the patents cancelled. But if, as we must assume
on this record, a defendant owns valid patents, it is difficult
to say that, however much in the past such defendant has
abused the rights thereby conferred, it must now dedicate
them to the public.
That a patent is property, protected against appropriation both by individuals and by government, has long been
settled. 1 In recognition of this quality of a patent the
courts, in enjoining violations of the Sherman Act arising
from the use of patent licenses, agreements, and leases,
have abstained from action which amounted to a forfeiture
of the patents."
The Government urges that such forfeiture is justified
by our recent decisions in Morton Salt Co. v. G. S. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488, and B. B. Chemical Co. v. Ellis,
314 U. S. 495. But those cases merely apply the doctrine
that, so long as the patent owner is using his patent in
violation of the antitrust laws, he cannot restrain infringement of it by others. We were not there concerned with
the problem whether, when a violation of the antitrust
laws was to be restrained and discontinued, the court
could, as part of the relief, forfeit the patents of those
who had been guilty of the violation. Lower federal courts
11James v. Campbell, 104 U. S. 356, 357, 358; Hollister v. Benedict
& Burnham Mfg. Co., 113 U. S. 59, 67; Win. Cramp & Sons Co. v.
InternationalCurtis Marine Co., 246 U. S. 28, 39-40; United States
v. Dubilier Condenser Corp., 289 U. S. 178, 189.
12 See Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20.
Decrees and Judgments in Federal Antitrust Cases (1918) p. 265;
United States v. Motion Picture Patents Co., 225 F. 800, appeal dismissed 247 U. S. 524. Decrees and Judgments in Federal Antitrust
Cases (1918) pp. 379-380; United Shoe Machinery Corp. v. United
States, 258 U. S. 451; Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S.
436; United States v. Univis Lens Co., 316 U. S. 241.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

have rightly refused to extend the doctrine of, those cases
to antitrust decrees by inserting forfeiture provisions. 18
Legislative history is also enlightening upon this point.
Repeatedly since 1908 legislation has been proposed in
Congress to give the courts power to cancel a patent which
has been used as an instrument to violate antitrust laws."
Congress has, not adopted such legislation. The temporary National Economic Committee recommended imposition of such a penalty for violation of antitrust laws. 5
But its recommendation was not adopted by Congress.
The Government suggests that certain earlier decisions
under the Sherman Act, by analogy, support these portions
of the decree.' 6 The cases cited, however, do not sustain
the suggestion. In all of them the court refrained from
ordering compulsory dealing with the assets of the defendant without compensation and, in most of them, the
decrees merely called for rearrangement of ownership,
not for its destruction.
13 American Lecithin Co. v. Warfield Co., 105 F. 2d 207, 211; Novadel-Agene Corp. v. Penn, 119 F. 2d 764, 766-7; Sylvania Industrial
Corp. v. Visking Corp., 132 F. 2d 947, 958; Universal Sewer Pipe
Corp. v. General.ConstructionCo., 42 F. Supp. 132,, 134; American
Lecithin Co. v. Warfield Co., 42 F. Supp. 270, 272.
H. R. 20388, 60th Cong., 1st Sess. (1908); H. R. 11796, 61st
Cong., 1st Sess. (1909); H. R. 2930, 62d Cong., 1st Sess. (1911);
H. R. 16828, 62d Cong., 2d Sess. (1912); H. R. 23417, as amended,
62d Cong., 2d Sess. (1912); H. R. 1700, 63d Cong., 1st Sess. (1913);
H. R. 14865, 63d Cong., 2d Sess. (1914) ; S. 2783, 70th Cong., 2d Sess.
(1928); S. 2491, 77th Cong., 2d Sess. (1942).
15 Final Report and Recommendations of the Temporary National
Economic Committee, Sen. Doe. No. 35, pp. 36-7 (1941), 77th Cong.,
1st Sess. See also Preliminary Report Sen. Doe. No. 95, pp. 16-17
(1939), 76th Cong., 1st Sess.
'" United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106; United
States v. Terminal RailroadAssociation, 224 U. S. 383; United States
v. Great Lakes Towing Co., 217 F. 656, appeal dismissed 245 U. S.
675; United States v. New England Fish Exchange, 258 F. 732; United
States v. Pullman Co., 50 F. Supp. 123.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

417'

Opinion of the Court.

Under paragraph 24 (b) a defendant hereafter acquiring a patent cannot set the price for its use by others,
elect to use it himself and refuse to license it, or to retain
it and neither use nor license it. These are options patent
owners have always enjoyed."
Congress was asked as early as 1877, and frequently
since, to adopt a system of compulsory licensing of patents. 8 It has failed to enact these proposals into law.
It has also rejected the proposal that a patentee found
guilty of violation of the antitrust laws should be compelled, as a penalty, to license all his future inventions at
reasonable royalties. 9 The Temporary National Economic Committee recommended congressional adoption of
such a system,' but Congress took no action to that end.
Paragraph 24 (a) of the decree should be modified to
permit the reservation of reasonable royalties and its provisions should be restricted to feeders, formers, stackers
and lehrs and patents covering these or improvements of
them, or methods or processes used in connection with
them.
Paragraph 24 (b) should be limited in respect of future
applications and resulting patents or patents hereafter
acquired by assignment, to those covering feeders, formers, stackers and lehrs, or parts thereof or improvements
thereon, and methods and processes involved in their con17Paper Bag Patent Case, 210 U. S. 405, 424; Motion Picture
PatentsCo. v. UniversalFilm Mfg. Co., 243 U. S. 502, 510, 514; Crown
Die & Tool Co. v. Nye Tool & Machine Works, 261 U. S. 24, 34-35.
18 H. R. 8776, 62d Cong., 1st Sess. (1911); S. 2116, 62d Cong., 1st
Sess. (1911); H. R. 26185, 62d Cong., 2d Sess. (1912); S. 2303, 77th
Cong., 2d Sess. (1942); S. 2730, 77th Cong., 2d Sess. (1942); H. R.
1371, 78th Cong., 1st Sess. (1943); ef. S. 300, 45th Cong., 1st Sess.
(1877).
C
19 S. 2783, 70th Cong., 2d Sess. (1928).
20
Final Report and Recommendations of the Temporary National
Economic Committee, Senate Doe. No. 35, pp. 36-7 (1941), 77th
Cong., 1st Sess.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

struction and operation. For example, if Ball or Thatcher
should procure a patent on a bottle-capping machine or
for a composition of glass, there is no reason to compel a
license to Hartford or Hazel or anyone else. Other paragraphs of the decree preclude a misuse of the patent in
violation of the antitrust laws.
Paragraph 24 (c) should be deleted.
Paragraph 25 restrains all the corporate and individual
appellants, whenever regularly engaged in the manufacture of glassware for interstate commerce, from discrimination "by means of wholly exclusive or partially exclusive requirement contracts" "or otherwise" against any
such manufacture, p, -ent or prospective; or in the filling
of orders for machinery on the basis of the size of the
order or credit rating of the customer, if he is willing to
pay cash, his standing in the industry or otherwise; and
from conspiring with any other person or corporation to
obstruct or delay the furnishing of any such machinery.
The earlier portion of the paragraph is vague and would
be difficult of application. It seems not to be addressed to
any practice indulged in or threatened by any of the appellants. It should, therefore, be modified or eliminated.
The last five lines of the paragraph are appropriate
although the matters covered by them are apparently
embraced in other portions of the decree.
Thatcher and Ball insist that no such injunction should
be directed to them for the reason that they are not now,
and never have been, in the business of owning machinery patents or selling or licensing glassmaking machinery. We think, however, in view of the fact that they
have been found to have conspired with Hartford and
the other appellants in denying and obstructing competitors from obtaining machinery, the injunction, modified
as suggested, may stand against them.
Paragraph 26 enjoins all of the corporate appellants,
and all of the individuals associated with them, until the

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

entry of a finding by the court on the petition of any
defendant that the consequences of the ,conduct of the
defendants in violation of the antitrust laws have been
fully dissipated, from ,the following acts: (a) bringing,
maintaining, or taking any action in any'suit for infringement of any patent owned or controlled ,or hereafter issued
on pending applications covering glassware machinery;
(b) attempting to interfere, by suit or otherwise, with the
possession of any machinery owned, or claimed to be
owned, by any appellant which is in the possession of any
licensee except sale to the licensee pursuant to paragraph,
21; (c) attempting to collect royalties or-liense fees for
the use of any inventions covered by existing patents or
applications for patents for glassware machinery,
Since paragraphs 21 to 24 (a) inclusive are to be eliminated, this paragraph, which is ancillary to them, should
also be deleted from the decree, but in view of the nature of the conspiracy found, an injunction should go
against the further prosecution of all infringement suits
pending at the date this suit was brought. Hartford and
the other corporate defendants mentioned in paragraph
24 should be required to lease or license glassmaking
machinery of the classes each now manufactures to any
who may desire to take licenses (under patents on such
machinery or on improvements, methods or processes
applicable thereto), at standard royalties and without discrimination or restriction, and if at the time of entry of
the decree there are any alleged infringers who are willing to take such licenses they should be released, and the
patent owner deprived of all damages and profits which
it might have claimed for past infringement. The decree
should, however, be without prejudice to the future institution of any suit or suits for asserted infringements
against persons refusing to take licenses under any of the
presently licensed inventions arising out of their use after
the date of the decree. The decree should not forbid any

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

defendant from seeking recovery for infringement, occurring after the date of the final decree, of patents not
covering feeders, formers, stackers, lehrs or processes or
methods applicable to any of them.
Paragraph 27 cancels all outstanding agreements between corporate appellants, including all modifications
made prior to or pending trial. This is consonant with
the terms of the earlier paragraphs which require corporate appellants to license all inventions involved, royalty
free, and to sell machines embodying such inventions.
In view of what we have already said about these earlier
paragraphs, the license agreements as modified by the
parties and in accordance with the views here expressed,
should be allowed to stand. As has been noted, these
are all at uniform royalties, and all without restrictions
or discriminatory features. We do not understand that,
as modified, any of these agreements is attacked as containing improper or unlawful provisions. If, however, any
of them is found still to embody provisions inconsistent
with the form of relief we have outlined, its reformation
should be decreed. The appellants should be enjoined
from hereafter altering these agreements, or any hereafter made in like terms, without the approval of the
court. If the existing royalties are excessive these may
be reduced to a fair and reasonable basis. The decree
should permit any corporate appellant, acting alone, to
lease or sell patented machinery or license the use of
patents, if it so elects, provided always that no discrimination be practiced and that no restrictive conditions be
attached (except as stated in connection with paragraph
29) save with the approval of the court.
A word should be said with respect to the effect of
this paragraph in cancelling the agreement of September 23, 1940, between Hartford-Empire and Coming,
and the assignment of three patents to Corning pursuant
thereto.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

It will be recalled that, prior to the trial, Corning and
Hartford cancelled the 1916 and 1922 agreements which
the court found illegal and which the decree ordered cancelled notwithstanding the parties' prior action. Further, Corning was given an unrestricted license by Hartford which will require the payment of increased royalties
by Corning for use of Hartford's inventions. In consideration of the cancellation of the agreements, Hartford
agreed to pay Corning $1,125,000, in installments, and
to transfer to Corning three patents owned by Hartford.
The decree orders these payments impounded, but makes
no disposition of the impounded fund. It also requires
Corning to reassign the patents to Hartford.
Two of the patents have expired. The reason for
Corning's desire to obtain title to the patents was that
two of them were alleged to conflict with certain features
of Corning's ribbon machine 21 although the claim was
always contested and never established. These are the
two expired patents. The third was alleged to infringe
upon a feature of a Corning patented machine known as
a turret chain machine. Continued ownership of the patent by Hartford would constitute a threat against the use
by Corning of the machine. The assigned patent will
expire six years before Corning's patent on the turret chain
machine. Naturally Corning desired to be free from the
possible threat of infringement suits. It does not appear
that the ownership of this patent by Corning would tend
to perpetuate or create any improper monopoly or patent
pool. In any event, Corning has agreed, if such danger
isfound to exist, to dedicate the patent to the public,
since all it desires is to be free of restraint on the part
of Hartford in the use of its turret chain machine. Such
dedication should be ordered.
21

There is no claim that the ribbon machine patent was ever
part of a combination of patents.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

In the light of these facts, the settlement made by Hartford and Corning ought not to be set aside nor ought the
payment to be made by Hartford to Corning thereunder
be enjoined. The money paid into court by Coming
should be returned to it.
The paragraph orders cancellation of the agreements
of June 30, 1916 between Hartford-Fairinont and Empire, and that of October 26,1922 between Hartford, Corning and others. These have been cancelled, but the decree
should enjoin their reinstatement, or the making of like
contracts in the future.
Paragraph 28 orders cancellation of all Hartford machinery leases now outstanding and requires that each
lessee be offered a new license (without royalty, pursuant
to paragraph 24) and offered the right to purchase all
of the machinery now held under lease (as required by
paragraph 23). In view of what has been said this provision should not stand.
Paragraph 29 enjoins the insertion or enforcement of
any provision in any agreement heretofore or hereafter
made by any of the appellants which (a) directly or indirectly limits or restricts (1) the type or kind of product,
whether glassware or any other, which can be produced
on machines or equipment or by processes embodying inventions licensed under patents or patent applications, (2) the use of the product so produced, (3) the
character, weight, color, capacity, or composition of the
product, (4) the quantity, (5) the market, either as to
territory or customers in or to which the product may be
sold or distributed, (6) the price or terms of sale or other
disposition of the product, or (7) the use of the machinery
or equipment distributed or the inventions licensed in connection with any other machinery or equipment, or the
use of it in any specified plant or locality; (b) authorizes
termination of the license for unauthorized use; (c) provides that the licensee shall not contest the validity of

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

any patent or patents of the licensor; (d) provides that
improvements by the licensee on machinery leased and
sold shall become the property of the lessor; (e) provides
that rights to improvements and inventions covering
licensed machinery or processes or methods shall become
the exclusive property of the lessor or vendor; or (f)
grants to any licensee a preferential position by lower rates
of royalty, by different provisions of licensing, leasing, or
sale, by exclusive licensing, rebate, discounts or requiring
a share in net or gross income, or by any other means.
The paragraph now covers every kind of invention and
every patent, present or future, in any field if owned or
controlled or distributed by an appellant.
The injunction will stop all inventions or acquirement
of patents in any field by any appellant unless for its own
use in its business, for it sets such limitations upon the
reward of a patent as to make it practically worthless except for use by the owner. It is unlimited in time. It
is not limited to any joint action or conspiracy violative
of the antitrust laws; it covers inventions in every conceivable field.
The Government now agrees that this injunction should
be limited to glassmaking machinery and glassware as
defined in paragraph 1 of the decree of the District
Court.
The corporate appellants have amended, or agreed to
amend, existing leases and licenses to remove all such restrictions as are enjoined." We have already said that the
decree should enforce conformity of all lease and license
agreements to this standard, and forbid the reinstatement or embodiment of any such restrictions in existing
-The Government calls attention to findings which show that
though Hartford adyised certain licensees of the removal of restrictions in their licenses, these licensees have not formally accepted the
more liberal terms. Hartford can be' enjoined from enforcing the
restrictions if that is found necessary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

or future agreements relating to the machinery, methods
or processes respecting feeders, formers, stackers or lehrs or
involved in their use, covered by patents now owned or
applied for or those hereafter acquired by any corporate
appellant.
Paragraph 29 should be amended to permit any appellant, corporate or individual, to retain and refuse to
license, to use and refuse to license, or to license with
restrictions, any patent hereafter applied for or acquired
except those applicable to feeders, formers, stackers and
lehrs and processes and methods applicable thereto. Its
restraints should be limited as we have indicated those
of paragraph 24 (b) should be limited.
Paragraph 30 applies all the terms of paragraph 29 to
agreements hereafter made between any of the defendants.
This should be modified to conform to the alterations to
be made in paragraph 29.
Paragraph 31 requires court approval of "any agreement between any of the defendants" and "of any license
agreement made pursuant to this judgment." This is too
sweeping. The provision is without limit of time and not
terminable upon fulfilment of any condition. Many of
the individual defendants are employees of one of the corporate defendants. An employment contract could not be
made with such an one without court approval. Nor can
any defendant enter into the most innocent and usual business transaction with any other, however unrelated to the
conspiracy, without similar approval. This paragraph,
if retained, should be restricted in application to lease or
license agreements and agreements respecting patents and
trade practices, production and trade relations.
By paragraph 33 each of the individual defendants is
enjoined from "holding, controlling, directly or indirectly,
or through corporations, agents, trustees, representatives,
or nominees, any of the issued and outstanding capital
stock, bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness of more

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

than one corporation engaged either in the manufacture
and sale of glassware or in the manufacture or distribution of machinery used in the manufacture of glassware or
in both. . . ." The individual defendants thus enjoined
are officers and directors of the corporate defendants. The
purpose of dealing with stock ownership is to prevent
aggregation of control to the end of establishing a monopoly or stifling competition. The ownership of a few,
or even a few hundred, shares of stock of a glass manufacturing company not in competition with the company
of which a defendant happens to be a director or officer
can have no tendency towards such a result. Many food
packers and makers of proprietary articles manufacture
part or all of the glassware in which their goods are sold.
The decree would require all of the defendants, at their
peril, to part with any stock which they own in such a
concern and to refrain from buying any. Owens is in the
glass container business. It has never manufactured
pressed or blown ware or light bulbs, yet the decree would
forbid any defendant connected with Owens from investing in any concern manufacturing these articles. It is
unnecessary to multiply instances of the broad sweep of
the paragraph.
Moreover, the injunction is against ownership of bonds
of any such company. It is difficult to see how such -ownership in any reasonable amount by any of the individuals
in question could tend towards a violation of the Sherman
Act. The phrase "evidence of indebtedness" is also used.
This would indicate complete prohibition against making
a loan however reasonable, or however proper the purpose,
evidenced by a promissory note.
The decree should be modified to prohibit acquisition
of stocks or bonds of any corporate appellant by any other
such appellant, and to prohibit only the acquisition of a
measure of control through ownership of stocks or bonds
or otherwise, by any individual in a company competing

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

with that with which he is officially connected or a subsidiary or affiliate of such competing company.
The appellants Falck, Houghton, Houghton Jr. and
Levis own substantial amounts of stock of Corning and
of Hartford. By the decree they are required to divest
themselves of their stock in the one or the other within
two years from the date of the judgment. In view of
the effect of the decree on Hartford, it may prove difficult for these defendants to comply within the period
stated without severe loss. We are of opinion that a
longer time should be allowed and that an alternative
provision would be appropriate depriving these defendants of the right to vote the stock of one company or
the other or to trustee the stock of one of the corporations
if both stocks are held longer than the term fixed.
Paragraph 34 which deals with present holdings of individual appellants should be revised to comport with the
views expressed as to paragraph 33.
Paragraph 35 enjoins each individual defendant from
holding, at the same time, an office or .directorship in more
than one corporation which manufactures and sells glassware or manufactures or distributes glassmaking machinery. The injunction is not limited to directorships
in more than one of the defendant corporations. The
same comment applies as has been made with respect
to paragraph 33. There may be many instances when
the normal freedom to act as a director of more than one
company will in no wise conflict with the policies of the
antitrust laws or tend to the fostering of practices which
those laws forbid. The same considerations apply to
paragraph 36-A and 36-B, which should be limited to
the acquisition of the business or assets of a competing
corporation by a corporate defendant, and by any officer
of a corporate defendant, of the business or all the assets
of a competing concern, unless the acquisition is approved
by the court.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

427

Opinion of the Court.

Paragraphs 37 to 39 are directed at the Glass Container
Association, its officers, directors, employes and members.
The District Court has found that from 1928 to 1937 the
association, through the instrumentality of its statistical
committee, on which the principal corporate defendants
were represented, furnished forecasts of probable future
production of each of the glass manufacturers concerned
and that these forecasts were communicated at meetings
of the association by one manufacturer to another so that
there was general knowledge amongst the members of
the forecasted future production of each of them. These
forecasts, the court found, were treated by the corporate
appellants and their officers as in fact quotas, deviation
from such quotas was discouraged, and it was the general
understanding that each manufacturer should restrict his
production to accord with his quota. The court further
found that the association, working in close cooperation
with Hartford, which was not a member, endeavored to
discourage expansion of the industry and to prevent increased competition through the entry of new units into
the various fields of manufacture of glass containers.
The court, in its opinion, indicates that it does not find
it necessary to dissolve the association and further indicates that it may serve a valuable purpose to the industry
"as a statistical and research body" and in the promotion
of better methods of manufacture and distribution.
The injunctions entered in paragraphs 37 to 39, inclusive, compel the association to abolish its statistical committee and to refrain from establishing any committee
with similar functions; enjoin it from retaining any of
its present officers or board of directors who are defendants and also directors, officers or employes of any defendant corporation, and order it to submit to the Attorney General and to the court the names of directors
or officers to be elected or appointed to succeed present
incumbents. The association is enjoined from electing,

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court,

323 U. S.

employing, or continuing in office or employment, anyone
who is, at the time, an officer, director, agent or employe
of the corporate appellants, and is required to amend its
charter and by-laws to prevent such employment.
. We think the injunction as respects the association,
while leaving it in existence, practically destroys its functioning, even as an innocent trade association for what
have been held lawful ends.2 3 The association has undoubtedly been an important instrument of restraint and
monopoly. It may be made such again, and detection
and prevention and punishment for such resumption of
violations of law may be difficult if not impossible. In
the light of the record, we think it better to order its dissolution, and to provide that the corporate defendants
be restrained for a period of five years from forming or
joining any such trade association, and that thereafter
they may apply for leave to do so, and have such leave on
showing to the court that the purposes and activities of
the proposed body will not be violative of law.
Paragraph 40 is a general injunction against future
conduct. It is designed to prevent combinations, in violation of the antitrust statutes. It names each corporate
defendant "and the individual defendants associated
therewith" meaning the officers and directors of each who
are found to have participated in the conspiracy. But an
injunction binding the corporate defendants, their officers,
agents and employes, is sufficient to constrain the individual defendants so long as they remain in official relation, and to bind their successors. It is unnecessary to
enjoin them personally, when that relation is severed.
23 See Maple Flooring Manufacturers Association v. United States,
268 U. S. 563, 582, 583; Cement Manufacturers Protective Association v. United States, 268 U. S. 588, 606; Appalachian Coals v. United
States, 288 U. S. 344, 374; Sugar Institute v. United States, 297 U. S.
553, 598.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

Sub-paragraph (1) prohibits combining with any other
defendant or with any other manufacturer or "seller" of
glassware or glass machinery. The appellants object to
the inclusion of the word "seller," claiming that the use
of this term may preclude normal business arrangements
with agents and consignees. We shall later indicate the
proviso we think necessary in this connection. We are
of opinion that the sub-paragraph should be amended by
exscinding the phrase "its directors, officers, agents, and
employees" in both clauses, and inserting the words
"whether a natural person, partnership or corporation"
after the word "glassware" appearing in the last line of
the printed draft of the decree furnished this court by the
appellants.
Sub-paragraph (b) should be amended by inserting the
word "a" between "of" and "manufacturers" (which
should be in the singular) in the first line of the same
draft, deleting the words "or effect thereof" in the sixth
line and inserting in lieu thereof "of such ascertainment,
estimate or forecast" and by inserting in the next line between the words "persuade" and "any" the words "or
agree with".
Sub-paragraph (c) should be amended to substitute in
the sixth line of the same draft for "or where" the word
"with" and for "or effect is" the words "or agreement".
Sub-paragraph (d) should be deleted. The requirement that all trade information be given to the public
would render the assembly of it for the information of
members useless and indeed detrimental to competition.
The inclusion of such a provision in an antitrust decree
has been disapproved by this court.
Paragraph (2) should be modified by adding at the end
"in the distribution of glassware or machinery for the
manufacture of glassware".
Paragraph (3) which deals with distribution of data
concerning the business of glassmaking and glass ma-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

chinery distribution is approved with these alterations:
after the word "otherwise" in the seventh line of the
draft there should be inserted the words "pursuant to
any agreement or understanding or with the purpose or
intent" and there should be deleted the words "in such
form or manner as to indicate"; after the word "machinery" in the next to last line, the sentence should read,
"shall limit his or its output to any production quota or,
shall adhere or conform to any price".
In order to permit usual business transactions not related to violations of the antitrust statutes there should
be added at the end of paragraph 40 a proviso that nothing
in the paragraph is to be construed to forbid normal
business transactions of any of the corporate defendants
with its selling agents or consignees, persons or corporations rendering services to it, or customers; or to prohibit transactions with citizens or corporations of foreign
nations; or to prevent any defendant from availing of the
benefits of the Webb-Pomerene Act, the Small Business
Mobilization Act or (save as elsewhere in the decree provided) of the benefits of the patent laws.
Paragraphs 41 and 42 are duplications of other provisions of the decree. They should be deleted.
Paragraph 51 enjoins all defendants from directly or
indirectly acquiring, otherwise than through direct issue
from the patent office, any patent, patent application, or
exclusive rights thereunder, covering any invention embodied or employed in a machine or process used, or to
be used, in glassware manufacture ("whether or not the
machine or process embodying or employing the invention covered by the patent can be used without infringing another patent or patents") which constitutes or employs, in whole or in part, a method, means, or process
to obtain results in the glassmaking art which is identical
with, similar or alternative to, those obtained or obtainable by the machinery, methods, or processes embody-

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

ing inventions covered by patents then owned or controlled by any defendant, except non-exclusive rights or
patents on inventions of its or his employes or those of a
subsidiary, made during the time of employment.
, The scope of the provision is not clear. Whether it
applies to an improvement upon an existing patented invention seems doubtful. Perhaps it does not prevent an
owner of a patent upon a feeder from acquiring one upon
a former, or an owner of a patent upon a stacker from
acquiring one upon a lehr, but, as the provision is framed,
this is not clear. The injunction seems in effect to forbid
acquisition by any defendant of any patent right in any
glassmaking field, for most of the corporate defendants,
and perhaps some of the individuals, now own some such
patent.
It is clear, however, that the paragraph enjoins all acquisition of patent rights other than non-exclusive licenses.
In this respect, it is the reverse of paragraph 29 which outlaws all grants except unrestricted non-exclusive licenses.
It will be noted that the injunction runs against each defendant individually and is not applicable to joint acquisitions or to combinations or agreements respecting acquisition. It seems to prohibit the acquisition of any patent,
or of a restricted license under any patent by any defendant. In this respect the paragraph is inappropriate
to restrain future violations of the antitrust statutes. The
paragraph should be deleted.
Paragraph 52 deals with the problem of suppressed or
unworked patents. Much is said in the opinior, below,
and in the briefs, about the practice of the appellants in
applying for patents to "block off" or "fence in" competing inventions. In the cooperative effort of certain of the
appellants to obtain dominance in the field of patented
glassmaking machinery, many patents were applied for
to prevent others from obtaining patents on improvements
which might, to some extent, limit the return in the way

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

of royalty on original or fundamental inventions. The
decree should restrain agreements and combinations with
this object. But it is another matter to restrain every
defendant, for the indefinite future, from attempting to
patent improvements of machines or processes previously
patented and then owned by such defendant. This paxagraph is, in our judgment, too broad. In effect it prohibits several of the corporate defendants from applying
for patents covering their own inventions in the art of
glassmaking. For reasons elsewhere elaborated it cannot
be sustained. It should be limited as we have suggested
that paragraphs 24 (b) and 29 be limited. In addition,
it enjoins every defendant from applying for a patent
"with the intention of not making commercial use of the
invention within four years" from issue of the patent and
makes the failure commercially to use the invention prima
facie proof of the absence (sic) of such intention. 4 This
provision is also legislative rather than remedial. Unless
we are to overturn settled principles the paragraph in
question must be eliminated.
A patent owner is not in the position of a quasi-trustee
for the public or under any obligation to see that the public acquires the free right to use the invention. He has
no obligation either to use it or to grant its use to others.
If he discloses the invention in his application so that it
will come into the public domain at the end of the 17-year
period of exclusive right he has fulfilled the only obligation
imposed by the statute.2 5 This has been settled doctrine
24

The Government suggests that the paragraph should be revised
to read: "with the intention of never making commercial use of the
inventions covered thereby, provided that failure to make such use
within four years from the date of issuance of patents thereon shall
be deemed prima facie proof of the presence of such intention at the
time of the filing or prosecution of such applications."
25 United States v. Bell Tel. Co., 167 U. S. 224, 249; Continental
PaperBag Co. v. Eastern Paper Bag Co., 210 U. S. 405, 424, 429, 430.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

Opinion of the Court.

since at least 1896. Congress has repeatedly been asked,
and has refused, to change the statutory policy by imposing a forfeiture 26 or by a provision for compulsory licensing 27 if the patent is not used within a specified time.
The governing, rule is quoted in Chapman v. Wintroath,
252 U. S. 126, at 137:
"'A party seeking a right under the patent statutes may
avail himself of all their provisions, and the courts may
not deny him the benefit of a single one. These are questions not of natural but of purely statutory right. Congress, instead of fixing seventeen, had the power to fix
thirty years as the life of a patent. No court can disregard any'statutory provisions in respect to these matters
on the ground that in its judgment they are unwise or
prejudicial to the interests of the public.' United States
v. American Bell Telephone Co., 167 U. S. 224, 247."
Paragraph 55 requires submission to certain investigations by the Department of Justice and the furnishing
of information with respect to the business of the corporate defendants in the future. It should be modified
to accord with our opinion in United States v. Bausch
& Lomb Co., 321 U. S. 707, which involved a similar
provision.
A word should be said concerning the inclusion in many
paragraphs of the decree, and in many of the injunctions
imposed, of various individual defendants who in the past
have acted as, and who at present are, officers or directors of the corporate defendants. They offended against
26

R. 13876, 62d Cong., 1st Sess. (1911); H. R. 22203, 62d Cong.,
2d Sess. (1912); S. 3297, 67th Cong., 2d Sess. (1922); H. R. 6864, 75th
Cong., 1st Sess. (1937).
27 S. 3325, 67th Cong., 2d Sess. (1922) ; S. 3474, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.
(1926); S. 705, 70th Cong., 1st Sess. (1927); S. 203, 71st Cong., 1st
Sess. (1929); S. 22, 72d Cong., 1st Sess. (1931); S. 290, 73d Cong.,
1st Sess. (1933); S. 383, 74th Cong., 1st Sess. (1935); S. 2491, 77th
Cong., 2d Sess. (1942).
H.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

the antitrust laws by acting on behalf of, or in the name
of, a corporate defendant. There are no findings, and we
assume there is no evidence, that any of them have applied for, owned, dealt in, and licensed patents appertaining to the glassware art. Nor is there evidence or finding
that, as individuals acting for their own account, any of
them, as a principal, has entered into any of the arrangements found unlawful by the court. Despite these facts,
in practically every instance where a corporate defendant
is restrained from described action or conduct, these individuals, as individuals, are likewise restrained. Any
injunction addressed to a corporate defendant may, as various sections of the decree do, include its officers and
agents. If the individual defendants are officers or agents
they will be comprehended as such by the terms of the injunction. If any of them cease to be such, no reason is
apparent why he may not proceed, like other individuals,
to prosecute whatever lawful business he chooses free
of the restraint of an injunction. On the other hand, if
new officers and directors take the places of these defendants, such new agents will automatically come under
the terms of the injunction. There is no apparent necessity for including them individually in each paragraph of
the decree which is applicable to the corporate defendants
whose agreements and cooperation constitute the gravamen of the complaint. That these individuals may have
rendered themselves liable to prosecution 2 by virtue of the
provisions of § 14 of the Clayton Act 29 is beside the point,
United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 23 F. Supp. 937, affirmed 310 U. S. 150.
2938 Stat. 736; 15 U. S. C. § 24. "That whenever a corporation
shall violate any of the penal provisions of the antitrust laws, such
violation shall be deemed to be also that of the individual directors,
officers, or agents of such corporation who shall have authorized, ordered, or done any of the acts constituting in whole or in part such
violation, and such violation shall be deemed a misdemeanor..."
28

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

BLACK,

J., dissenting in part.

since relief in equity is remedial, not penal. These considerations, however, do not apply to the provisions of
paragraphs 3 to 7 and 33 to 35 inclusive, as the same are
to be modified.
Paragraph 42 requires Ball to cancel certain agreements
with the Knox Glass Bottle Company and Underwood,
and with Brockway Machine Bottle Company and Robert L. Warren, which excluded the parties named from
entering the glass container business for periods of years.
As it appears without contradiction that these restrictions
have already been released by Ball, the paragraph seems
unnecessary.
The judgment of -the District Court is reversed as to the
appellants in Nos. 10 and 11; its decision that the appellants in the other appeals have violated the antitrust
laws and should be enjoined from future similar violations
is affirmed, but the decree entered is vacated and the
cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity
to this opinion.
DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR.
JACKSON took no part in the consideration or

MR. JUSTICE
JUSTICE

decision of this case.
Ma. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting in part.

I agree with the Court's judgment insofar as it sustains
the decree of the District Judge.
I cannot, however, agree to many of the modifications
of that decree. These appellants have violated the antitrust laws. The District Court's decree, taken as a whole,
is an effective remedy, admirably suited to neutralize the
consequences of such violations, to guard against repetition of similar illegal activities, and to dissipate the unlawful aggregate of economic power which arose out of,
and fed upon, monopolization and restraints. United
States v. Crescent Amusement Co., 323 U. S. 173. Many

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

J., dissenting in part.

323 U. S.

of this Court's modifications seriously impair the decree
and frustrate its purposes.
It would probably serve no useful purpose to state at
length the reasons which justify the District Court's decree, since they are set forth clearly and well in its opinion.
In particular, however, it is my belief that any reasonable
assurance that these appellants will not continue to violate the anti-trust law requires that we leave intact the
District Court's decree insofar as it (1) provides for appointment of a receiver and the impounding of Hartford's
royalties (Paragraphs 10-20 of the Decree); (2) requires
that glassware machines should be disposed of by outright
sale rather than by leases (Paragraphs 21, 22, 23); (3)
requires that patents, already owned, be licensed royalty
free; (4) prohibits the restrictive licensing practices which
the appellants so effectively used to create and maintain
their monopoly (Paragraph 29); (5) enjoins the appellants from the practice of obtaining patents for the purpose of "fencing in" and "blocking off" new inventions,
(Paragraph 52).
The District Court's opinion in my judgment laid a
careful and well-reasoned foundation establishing the
necessity for every one of these Paragraphs. It would be
difficult to add to what the court there said. It is sufficient
for me to say only a few words.
The District Court found that these defendants started
out in 1916 to acquire a monopoly on a large segment of
the glass industry. Their efforts were rewarded by complete success. They have become absolute masters of that
domain of our public economy. They achieved this result largely through the manipulation of patents and
licensing agreements. They obtained patents for the express purpose of furthering their monopoly. They utilized
various types of restrictions in connection with leasing
those patents so as to retain their dominance in that
industry. The history of this country has perhaps never
witnessed a more completely successful economic tyranny

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

437

BLAcK, J., dissenting in part.

over any field of industry than that accomplished by these
appellants. They planned their *monopolistic program on
the basis of getting and keeping and using patents, which
they dedicated to the destruction of free competition in
the glass container industry. Their declared object was
"To block the development of machines which might be
constructed by others .. " and "To secure patents on
possible improvements of competing machines, so as to
'fence in' those and prevent their reaching an improved
state." These patents were the major weapons in the
campaign to subjugate the industry; they were also the
fruits of appellants' victory. The restoration of competition in the glass container industry demands that appellants be deprived of these weapons. The most effective
way to accomplish this end is to require, as the District
Court did, that these patents be licensed royalty free.
The decree of the court below was well fashioned to
prevent a continuation of appellants' monopolistic practices. The decree as modified leaves them free, in a large
measure, to continue to follow the competition-destroying methods by which they achieved control of the industry. In fact, they have received much milder treatment
from this Court than they anticipated. This is shown
by a memorandum of one of Hartford's officers made in
1925. That memorandum which discussed plans for suppression of a number of competitors, with particular reference to possible prosecutions under the Sherman Act, read
in part as follows:
"Of course, the court might order that we transfer the
entire Federal licensing business to some other party and
turn over to that party the Federal patents. This, of
course, would simply restore to a certain extent the existing situation and establish a competitor. .

.

. I . . .do

not see much danger of having any of these deals upset .... If they are upset, I still believe that by that time,
we will be in a better position even with such dissolution
than we would be otherwise; and I see no danger whatso-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

323 U. S.

ever of any criminal liability because the cases are necessarily so doubtful in the matter of law that they could
never get any jury to convict and I doubt if any prosecuting officer would ever attempt any criminal action. Criminal action in cases of this sort, so far, has practically been
nonexistent."
I would sustain the decree of the District Court, for the
reasons it gave, in all of the paragraphs mentioned.
dissenting in part.
With MR. JUSTICE BLACK, in whose opinion I join, I concur in the Court's judgment to the extent that it sustains
the District Court's findings and decree. But, with two
exceptions, I dissent from the more important revisions
made in the decree.
In anti-trust injunction suits the court's function is
twofold, to determine liability and to fashion the remedy
to fit the fault. Perhaps in some cases the two things may
be treated substantially independently. More often they
are so interwoven that separation becomes impossible, if
other than warped justice is done. This case is of the
latter sort. But the Court's modifications largely disregard this fact.
The story involves a quarter of a century of Sherman
Act violation.' Necessarily it has been sketched here only
in outline. The bare bones of the history show, as rarely
has been done, the combination's expanding scope, the
corresponding growth of design, the varied, but often devious and ruthless methods, as well as the ultimate total
MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

I The District Court found ". . . that there has not only been a
violation of the anti-trust laws, beginning with the first agreement
between Hartford and Empire in 1916, but I am convinced that this
violation of the laws was as deliberate as any that I can find in a
review of anti-trust cases." 46 F. Supp. 541, 552-553. Hartford and
Lynch were also found guilty of contracting in violation of the Clayton Act.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

RUTLEDGE,

439

J., dissenting in part.

success of this long adventure in monopoly and unlawful
restraint of trade.2 Without the color supplied by detail, however, the excursion's true character is hardly half
revealed. The full effect cannot now be given. It appears
in the District Court's careful and restrained opinion, 46
F. Supp. 541, buttressed in every conclusion, nearly every
page, from writings accumulated, while the combination
grew, in the files of the principal participants, and in other
published documents.4
2

Sixteen pages of the trial court's opinion are given to a summary
of manifestations of conscious guilt. The instance cited in the opinion
of Mr. Justice Black is illustrative. See also text infra at note 10.
The methods employed ranged from suggestions for "cooperation"
to the division of fields within the industry and the squeeze-out of
rivals, ruthlessly and constantly through the system of licensing and
leasing which the court found was "the greatest abuse." Cf. text
infra at note 15. Hazel-Atlas was a hold-out until the "three-way
partnership" agreement of 1932. The long story showing how that
company finally was brought "within the family" is particularly interesting in disclosing the methods used in bringing a rival to book.
3Characterizing the case as "primarily documentary," though also
noting the "reticence of some of the key witnesses to disclose what
plainly was within their knowledge as principal actors in the main
conferences that occurred over a period of time," the court stated:
".. . in this case, the men who planned and directed the proceedings
under scrutiny, from 1916 down to the time of the filing of the complaint herein, left behind them numerous exchanges of letters and
many memoranda executed contemporaneously with the happening
of the main events and designed for the information of their contemporaries, their boards of directors, or for their successors in office.
It is hard to imagine a case in which a court would have more firsthand information of what the parties did and intended than in the case
at bar." (P. 553.)
4 See the reports of the Temporary National Economic Committee,
the disclosures of which were largely responsible for the institution
of this proceeding. Investigation of Concentration of Economic Power,
Sen. Doc. No. 95, 76th Cong., 1st Sess. (1939) ; ibid., Sen. Doc. No. 35,
77th Cong., 1st Sess. (1941); ibid., Monograph No. 31, Hamilton,
Patents and Free Enterprise, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., Senate Committee
Print (1941).

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE, J., dissenting in part.

323 U. S.

This emphasis upon the complete picture, in color and
detail, is pertinent to liability. It bears even more directly on the quantity and character of relief required to
uproot the combination's destructive and unlawful effects.
Without this view, many of the decree's provisions, cast
in dry legal terms, denuded of the life and history which
brought them forth, seem drastic. With it, they take a
wholly different aspect.
One may start, with the Court, upon the basic idea
that, in such a proceeding, the decree's function is not to
impose sheer "punishment" for past misconduct, but is
rather to devise effective measures to prevent its repetition and dissipate its consequences. This does not mean,
however, that there is any clear, sharp line which can be
drawn on the crux of past and future between punishment and prevention or dissipation; or that this difference
should be translated into the implicit assumptions which
seem to underlie the Court's extensive revisions of the
decree and thereby strip it in great part of effectiveness.
The assumptions relate to the respective functions of trial
and appellate courts in framing the decree as well as to
the criteria by which are to be gauged the quantity and
quality of relief needed to be effective.
It seems to be implied from the number, character and
detail of the revisions that it is the business of this Court
to rewrite the decree, substituting its own judgment for
that of the District Court when there is difference concerning the wisdom or need of a particular revision. A
supporting notion, apparently, is that the "equity" procedure to enforce the Act is hedged with the same limitations non-statutory equity has placed about its action as
a system of private remedial litigation. Both these ideas
have backing in a third misconception, that men who have
misused their property, and acquired much of it, by violating the Sherman Act, are free for the future to continue
using it as are other owners who have committed no such

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

offense; and that consequently the appropriate relief affecting such use is the least restriction which possibly will
prevent repetition of past violations. Cf., however, United
States v. Union PacificR. Co., 226 U. S. 470, 477. Except
upon these assumptions, the Court's major revisions of the
decree cannot be justified.
Shortly, in my view. it is not this Court's business to
fashion or rewrite the decree. Where the trial court, with
obvious care and judgment, has devised measures it deems
essential to protect the public interest and we agree they
may be sufficient, our modifications by watering them
down should stop with directions to eliminate provisions
contrary to law or those we can say amount to an abuse
of discretion. United Statesv. Crescent Amusement Co.,
323 U. S.173, 185. Changes imposing greater restrictions
should be made only when the decree is insufficient to accomplish the protection required. Ibid. The reasons
which thus ordinarily restrict the scope of appellate review have magnified force in anti-trust proceedings.
Their complex character usually requires, as in this case,
months or years for the trial court's consideration. With
its maximum attention, this Court cannot possibly attain
the same detailed familiarity with the cause. Nor can it
frame at long distance, with the same assurance, a decree
adequate for the necessity.
The so-called equitable character of the proceeding does
not nullify this inherent limitation upon appellate judicial action. Nor does it justify an attitude which would
circumscribe the suit or the relief with the limitations
courts of equity traditionally have put around their action in private litigation. The anti-trust injunction suit
is in form "a proceeding in equity." In substance, it is a
public prosecution, with civil rather than criminal sanctions, for vindication of public right and for redress and
prevention of public injury. To regard the fashioning of
appropriate relief in such a suit as identical with the samne

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

323 U. S.

function in private litigation is to disregard at once the
former's statutory origin, its public character, and the
public interest it protects. The equitable garb of the proceeding therefore does not determine or conceal its true
character. Nor does it limit the required relief merely
to what will prevent repetition of the illegal conduct
by which the combination has been formed, its property
acquired, and its dominating position secured.
The contrary view ignores the momentum inherent in
such a combination. The power, and much of the property, now aggregated in the combination's hands and
those of its principal participants, was gathered by unlawful methods, at the expense of the public and competitors.5 Presumably neither power nor property could
have been accumulated by lawful means. Nor can they
now together be transferred legally to another. The loosened restrictions of this Court's revision may be sufficient
to prevent, for the future, further acts of the character
and having the effects of the past violations. But the
pool has acquired more than 800 patents, which control
the industry, of which Hartford alone holds more than
600. Its members, including Hartford, are not compelled
to disgorge any of these, or prohibited to acquire others.
Referring to the defendants' argument "that the price of glassware
to the consumer has not increased," the District Court's opinion stated
(p. 620): "But again this is not a good defense if there have been violations of the law. Moreover, the history of the case shows the great
extent to which automatic machinery has come into use within the
past forty years. It is natural to assume that the cost of production
would decrease with the great influx of automatic machinery. Evidently the defendants managed to retain this saving in the cost of
production by means of the conspiracy herein, which is manifested by
the large profits in the industry. The benefits certainly were not
passed on to the public." Previously the court had found that, "Dominance over the entire industry is today so complete that at any time
within the choice of Hartford and Owens prices to the consumer of
glassware may arbitrarily be raised beyond all reason." (P. 619.)

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

Many of the patents, and certainly the cherished "patent
position," ° were secured only by virtue of the illegal conduct. Whatever benefits may flow from these patents
and the patent position thus created are inevitably the
consequences of that conduct.7 Merely to throw off the
illegal practices, such as restricted and discriminatory
licensing, cannot reach those consequences. Every dollar
hereafter, as well as heretofore, secured from licenses on
the patents illegally aggregated in the combination's
hands is money to which the participants are not entitled
by virtue of the patent laws or others. It is the immediate product of the conspiracy. To permit these patents
to remain in the guilty hands, as sources of continuing
lucrative revenue, not only does not deprive their owners
of the fruit of their misconduct. Rather it secures to them
its continued benefits. The pool may no longer utilize
illegal methods. It, and the constituent members, will
continue to enjoy the preferred competitive position
6 Illustrative of the combination's purpose in this respect is Levis'

report to Owens' board of directors in November, 1929: "Our negotiations with Hartford-Empire Company and others, so far as our patent
situation and royalty income is [sic] concerned, should be to attempt
to secure a position whereby we pay no royalty on any item we produce and we attempt to have all others pay royalty on every item they
produce, we participating with any one else in the royalties they

receive."
7 With reference to the contention that the amendments made by
the defendants in their contract relations, without the court's knowledge, between the filing of the complaint in 1939 and the closing of
testimony over two years later, the court said: "Men cannot, by illegal
means, erect an illegal structure-a structure of dominance and control
over an industry vital to the welfare of the public-and then, by destroying the illegal means by which the structure has been erected, take
the position that they have reformed, that they have adopted a new
course of conduct, and that they should go on their way unmolested by
the law-as long as the illegal structure and its adverse effects upon
the public remain." (P. 618.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

323 U.S.

which their conduct has given them and to use both that
position and the ill-gotten patents, together with the
patent position, to derive trade advantage over rivals and
gain from the public which the patent laws of themselves
never contemplated and the anti-trust laws, in my opinion, forbid.8
These considerations were before the District Court's
mind when it devised the decree. Concluding its opinion, that court made a "statement of the principles to
be followed" in framing the decree which throws light
particularly upon its considered views of the relief required. It stated, with undisputed evidence 9 to sustain
its conclusion:
"The court believes that no, half-way measures will
suffice. There has been a deliberate violation of the law,
and it is the duty of the court to do what he can to make
certain that these violations of the law will cease and will
not be resumed in the future and that competition will
be restored in the industry. The record discloses that
some of the individual defendants anticipated legal action
by the Government, and went ahead in spite of that and
violated the law. They also tried to anticipate the remedies that might be applied and did what they could to
forestall the effect of such remedies and retain the bene13 and 17 infra.
Throughout the litigation the facts have been substantially undisputed in consequence of the documentary-and conclusive character
of the proofs. Cf. note 3 supra. The dispute has been primarily
over the inferences to be drawn from the facts, the defendants contending, in the words of the District Court (p. 615), that "any control that may exist over the production and marketing of unpatented
glassware is but the result of a normal exercise of the patent privilege," with like contention, of course, concerning the production and
licensing of glassmaking machinery. The contention merely poses
the basic question of law in the case.
8 Cf. notes
9

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
388

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

fits of their unlawful actions. The court intends to make
certain that this does not occur." 10 (P. 620.)
The Government had requested the dissolution of Hartford, keystone of the combination.11 In view of controlling authorities relating to violations not less extensive or
more clearly proved, 2 it hardly could be said, and this
Court's opinion does not say, that if dissolution of Hartford had been ordered, this would have constituted an
abuse of discretion. The District Court did not deny
that remedy. Rather it reserved the question for later
determination, undertaking meanwhile a milder remedy.
In its own words, referring to the Government's request
for dissolution, the opinion stated:
"The court, however, is first going to make an attempt
to avoid that, if it is possible to do so and at the same time
restore competition to the induqtry. If this cannot be
worked out to the satisfaction of the court; dissolutionwill
be ordered." (Emphasis added.)
"The first step to be taken is the immediate appointment of a receiver or receivers of Hartford. The court is
going to deny any stay from the appointment of such
receivers. It is believed to be absolutely necessary that
the receivers take over the management of Hartford
forthwith." (P. 620.)
Among the reasons assigned for this action were, first,
important changes made by Hartford without the court's
10 Cf. notes 2 and 13.
u Unless, in fact, this were Coming, which
or controlled, 43 per cent of Hartford's stock.
trict Court, Corning "in practical effect had
Hartford to dictate the policies of Hartford in
ing's wishes." (P. 557.)
1Standard
Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U.
American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106.

since 1922 has owned,
According to the Dissufficient control over
accordance with CornS. 1; United States v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

323 U. S.

knowledge during pendency of the suit, involving heavy
financial obligations of Hartford "for the advancement
of the interests of the companies involved," including the
transfer of three important patents to Corning which the
court felt was "for the obvious purpose of continuing
Corning's monopolies regardless of the outcome of this
suit" ;"8 second, to prevent any further abuse of the patent
privileges of Hartford and any further violation -of the
law, since "under the circumstances disclosed by the evidence, the court feels that this can only be done through
court officers"; and, third, to conserve the assets of Hartford and preserve the status quo. Pending appeal, therefore, and final determination of the cause, the receivers
were directed to take over Hartford's management, continue operation under its existing contracts and agreements for licensing and for leasing its machines, and to
receive, set aside and earmark the funds received from
licensees, holding them for return to the licensees if the
court's decree should be affirmed. Finally, the receivers
were to remain in control "until the court is satisfied that
the abuses and violations of the law have ceased, until
the orders of the court have been carried out, and until
the court is satisfied that there no longer remains a reasonable probability that these practices will be resumed.
If, after the expiration of a reasonable time, it appears
13

The trial court's conclusions concerning these changes, cf. text
infra at note 14, may be considered in the light of the other evidence
showing consciousness of violation, with anticipation of remedial action, cf. note 2 supra, and of practices by which domination obtained
under patents was maintained after they had expired, e. g., Hartford's
refusal to license others than Corning to make' heat-resistant ware
and oven ware on its feeders after Corning's patents on glass composition for these wares had expired in 1936. (P. 556.) Cf. also

Owens' continued domination of the suction field, noted in this
Court's opinion, by use of improvement patents after its basic patent

had expired.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

RUTLEDGE,

447

J., dissenting in part.

to the court that the steps he is now taking are insufficient
to restore a free and competitive status to the industry,
the receivers shall be ordered to submit a plan or plans
for the dissolution of Hartford." (P. 621.)
From this portion of the opinion it is perfectly clear
that the District Court has made no final decision concerning the dissolution of Hartford, as it was and still is
entitled to do; and that-it regarded the receivership as a
necessary alternative to granting that relief at once. No
other conclusion can be drawn than that the court, if
compelled to choose between dissolution and permitting
Hartfoid then to continue under its own management,
unhesitatingly would have decreed its dissolution. The
court in so many words stated, with reasons to support
its view, that Hartford's management could not be trusted
to carry out the terms of its decree, to refrain from further patent abuses and violations of the law, but on the
contrary already had taken steps to circumvent, in part,
whatever remedy might be imposed.'
Receiverships generally are to be avoided, if possible.
But there are times when they remain essential. If in any
circumstances they are so, it would seem to be in these.
Yet this Court's judgment directing termination declares,
in the face of the District Court's findings and the evidence which clearly sustains them, that the receivership,
though useful to preserve the status quo pending decision here, was "not necessary to the prescription of appropriate relief" and should be wound up, and that the
business should be returned to Hartford. This is not
merely a decision that the receivership was not justified
"in the light of what is hereafter said as to the substantive
provisions of the decree." *It is a substitution of this
Court's judgment for that of the District Court on the
14Cf. note

13 supra.

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting, in part.

323 U. S.

question of dissolution of Hartford, which it reserved,
foreclosing it from decision. It is likewise a substitution
of this Court's judgment for that of the District Court on
the question whether "the abuses and violations of the
law have ceased," also reserved for future decision, and
whether the management of Hartford, in the face of the
evidence and the findings, can be trusted now to carry
out the terms of the decree or were worthy of that trust
when the decree was entered. All thisin advance of determination of the facts, which this Court cannot ascertain, on which the decision of these questions must
turn.
Such an invasion of the trial court's function, it seems
to me, perverts both that function and our own. If that
court's-findings, justifying the receivership and the reservation of decision on dissolution, were contrary to the
law or the evidence, that should be demonstrated and declared. If they constituted an abuse of judicial discretion,
the nature and character of the abuse should be pointed
out. If they were neither, this Court goes beyond its
province by substituting its, own long-distance judgment
for the immediately informed view of the District Court
and in precluding it from judgment, upon issues rightly
to be determined by it, in the first instance, whatever the
standard which governs review, and in the circumstances
rightly reserved by it for future decision. The action of
the District Court in appointing receivers should be affirmed and, upon remand of the cause, its power should be
unfettered to retain them pending its finding of the conditions specified in its opinion and decree for restoring
the business of its owners or, in the alternative, to decree
dissolution of Hartford, within a reasonable time.
This Court's more important revisions of the "permanent steps" taken by the District Court may be noticed
shortly. The latter's opinion declared (p. 621): "The

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

RUTLEDGE,

449

J., dissenting in part.

most important question is 'with respect to the licensing
and lease system now used by Hartford. The-court believes that this is the greatest abuse. It is through the
licensing and lease system that Hartford retains control
over and dominates the industry." ' The court stated
its view that "there will be further abuses in the future as
long as there is a semblance of that system remaining. It
is the opinion of the court that this entire system must
be abolished." Accordingly it required for future distribution "outright sale at reasonable pricesP' in place of
the leasing of machines, with that method's obvious danger of repossession in case the lessee should fail to observe
practices established by the lessors, tacitly or otherwise.
The court also required the licensing, royalty free, of existing patents upon glassmaking machinery.
In my opinion both measures were fully justified by
the findings and the evidence. The leasing of patented
machinery or instruments lends itself particularly to the
creation and maintenance of monopoly and to the extension of monopolistic effects far beyond the life and scope
of the controlling patent or patents." The holder of a
patent who observes the law is entitled to exercise his
rights of ownership through lease as well as sale. When,
however, he uses his patent right, by the device of leasing,
to acquire a monopolistic position stronger than the patent
allows, and on being called to halt is not compelled to
dispose of the patent, he subjects himself to whatever
15 Cf. note 2 supra.
16 Cf. the statement,

in 1922, of V. M. Dorsey to A. D. Falck, of
Corning: "F. G. Smith, in private, suggested to me the most revolutionarytheory, which he will no doubt talk to you about, viz., putting out the feeders very much like telephones are installed, that is,
with an installation charge with a flat royalty plus royalties on production above a given amount. I think it has much to be commended.
It would certainly put the pirates out of business quickly."

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

323 U. S.

measures are required to prevent continuance of the practice in the future and to uproot the illegal position and
advantage he thus obtains. In my opinion the District
Court's finding that further abuses would continue, especially in view of the dangers inherent in the right of
repossession, justified its prohibition of, the further use
of the leasing system.
The requirement of licensing of existing patents, royalty free, would present greater difficulty if the violation
had not been so gross and so long continued. But because
it was both, and because the evidence shows a long course
of using, patents and patent position illegally to acquire
other patents and consolidate still stronger positions, it
is impossible now to determine what patents members of
the combination may have acquired illegally. The certainty is, however, that many were so acquired. 17 Since
the pool and its members are not required to dispose of
the patents, any revenues now received by them from the
existing patents are the result, and inevitably will continue to be the result, of the owners' violation of the law.
To permit the continued collection of royalties would be
to perpetuate, for the lives of the patents, the illegal consequences of the violations. That the court is bound, in
equity, and by the statute, not to do.
It is said, however, that the Government has not asked,
in this suitj for cancellation of the existing patents and
that this provision of the decree amounts to that. The
defendants, it is true, cannot derive royalties from them
under the terms of the decree, if they continue to distribute
machinery and glassware in interstate commerce. If this
is drastic, it is because the violation was drastic and there
is no other way now, short of dissolution or cancellation,
17 Cf. note 7 supra, and the instances cited from Exhibit 76 in the
District Court's opinion, 46 F. Supp. 541, 604-606, which caused it to
raise the question why criminal prosecution had not been instituted.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

to cut off its continuing effects of disadvantage to the
public and the industry or of benefit to the violators. The
court, seeking to avoid dissolution, had theduty to apply
a remedy equally adequate. United States v. Terminal
Railroad Association, 224 U. S. 383, 409. It could not do
this, if the pool were left a continuing source of revenue
to the violators and of burden to the public. Accordingly
it required the agreement for license, royalty free. Since
cancellation was not required in terms, it does not follow
merely from the royalty free provision that the effect will
be the same or that the defendants will not have the benefit of other incidents of ownership which may be exercised
without perpetuating the unlawful consequences of the
past misuse, such as realizing the value of the patents by
sale, made upon proper application with the court's
approval.18
This Court's revisions of the decree in these respects
load upon the industry and the consuming public continuing charges in favor of those who have violated both the
anti-trust statutes and the patent laws, a burden which
will not end until the last of the illegally aggregated patents has expired, if then. They both foreclose dissolution
and forbid the only other remedies equally adequate. So
to perpetuate the unlawful consequences of violation will
not discourage, it can only encourage setting the law at
naught.
From what has been said it follows, of course, that the
court properly impounded Hartford's revenues from leasing and licensing arrangements and that these should
now be returned to the sources whence received. Again,
18

Even a disposition so guarded would realize for the owner the
fruit of his wrongdoing in the case of patents illegally acquired and
integrated in the pool. But it would terminate the continuing benefit
to him and the possibility of his further misusing the patent to the
public harm.

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

323 U. S.

contrary to the Court's implicit assumption, the mere
fact that during this period there were no new violations
does not mean there were not continuing effects of former
ones.
The modifications made in paragraph 29, relating to restrictive licensing, should not go beyond restricting the
paragraph to glass products and glass machinery, as the
Government now concedes should be done. The provisions of the decree concerning the "fencing" and "blocking" of patents should stand, in view of the proven abuses
in applying for patents merely to prevent others from
obtaining them. Other revisions are too numerous to
mention specifically, except two. I concur in the elimination of the individual defendants, Collins, Fulton, Fisher,
and Dilworth, from the restrictions of the decree, for the
reasons stated in the Court's opinion. I concur also in
the modification which requires the dissolution of the
Glass Container Association, since the terms of the decree
substantially accomplish this and the District Court expressly found the association had been "a breeding place
for many of the illegal practices established herein."
The case presents again the fundamental- problem of
accommodating the provisions of the patent laws to those
of the anti-trust statutes. Basically these are opposed in
policy, the one granting rights of monopoly, the other forbidding monopolistic activities. The patent legislation
presents a special case, the anti-trust legislation the nation's general policy. Whether the one or the other is
wise is not for us to determine. But their accommodation
is one we must make, within the limits allowed to the
judicial function, when the issue is presented.
The general policy has been to restrict the right of the
patent-holder rigidly within the terms of his grant and,
when he overreaches its boundary, to deny him the usual
protections of the holder of property. That this ordi-

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
386

RuTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

narily has been done in infringement suits 1 or suits for
cancellation does not qualify the fact or the policy. On
the other hand, the anti-trust statutes have received a
broad construction and corresponding enforcement, where
violation has been clearly shown. When the patentholder so far overreaches his privilege as to intrude upon
the rights of others and the public protected by the antitrust legislation, and does this in such a way that he cannot further exercise the privilege without also trespassing
upon the rights thus protected, either his right or the other
person's, and the public right, must give way. It is wholly
incongruous in such circumstances to say that the privilege of the trespasser shall be preserved and the rights
of all others which he has transgressed shall continue to
give way to the consequences of his wrongdoing.
This is substantially what the defendants 'have sought
in this proceeding and this Court's revision of the decree
has granted in large measure. So inverted an idea of
equity, or of the law, cannot stand. In a machine age,
dominated so widely by patents, the effect can be no other
than largely to nullify the anfi-trust laws. There may be
instances in which a patent holder, guilty of violating
those statutes, can so separate his violation and its continuing effects from further full exercise of his patent
right that he may become entitled to a form of relief Which
will permit this. Unless we are to disregard entirely the
findings and conclusions of the District Court, supported
by overwhelming evidence, this is not such a case.
The Court's major modifications, in my opinion, emasculate the decree.
MR. JUSTICE BLACX joins in this dissent.
19 Cf. Morton Sdlt Co. v. Suppiger Cd., 314 U. S. 488; Mercoid Corp.
V Mid-Continent Investment Co., 320 U. S..661.

