606

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

323 U. S.

the risk by obeying the command of his employer's foreman to go on with his job. The judgment of the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania is reversed, and remanded to that
court for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS are of the
opinion that the judgment should be affirmed.

WEILER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 340. Argued January 10, 11, 1945.-Decided January 29, 1945.
1. The Court adheres to the rule which bars a conviction of perjury
on the uncorroborated testimony of a single witness. Hammer v.
United States, 271 U. S. 620. P. 609.
2. In a prosecution for perjury, the federal district court erred in refusing the defendant's requested instruction to the effect that, in
order to convict, the falsity of the statement made under oath must
be established by the testimony of two independent witnesses or by
one witness and corroborating circumstances. P. 610.
3. This Court is unable to say that the error of the district court in
refusing the requested instruction was harmless. Goins v. United
States, 99 F. 2d 147, distinguished. P. 611.
143 F. 2d 204, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 694, to review the affirmance of a
conviction of perjury.

Messrs. Peter P. Zion and Hirsh W. Stalberg for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Wechsler argued the cause,
and Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General
Tom C. Clark, Messrs. W. Marvin Smith, Robert S.
Erdahl, and Miss Beatrice Rosenberg were on the brief,
for the United States.

WEILER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

606
MR.

JUSTICE

BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

This Court stated in Hammerv. United States, 271 U. S.
620, 626, that "The general rule in prosecutions for perjury is that the uncorroborated oath of one witness is not
enough to establish the falsity of the testimony of the
accused set forth in the indictment." The question here
is whether it is reversible error to refuse to charge the jury
o this effect.
The petitioner was convicted of perjury in a federal
district court.1 In a prior criminal proceeding for violation of Office of Price Administration regulations he had
testified that he had neither bought nor had in his possession in March, 1942, certain automobile tires. He further testified that although he had signed a notarized letter
in which he stated that he had purchased the tires, he was
not in reality the purchaser, but had merely lent the
money for their purchase, and had signed the letter as an
accommodation. The jury acquitted him and he was then
indicted for perjury. The indictment charged that his
testimony with reference to the tire transaction was false.
In the perjury trial the petitioner reiterated his former
testimony as to the tire transaction. Several government
witnesses gave testimony from which the jury could have
found that petitioner was in fact the purchaser.
When the evidence was completed, petitioner requested
the trial judge to give the following instruction to the
jury:
"The Government must establish the falsity of the
statement alleged to have been made by the defendant
under oath, by the testimony of two independent witnesses or one witness and corroborating circumstances.
Unless that has been done, you must find [the] defendant
not guilty."
118 U. S. C. 231 defines the federal offense of perjury.

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

This instruction was refused, and the trial judge in his
oral charge completely omitted any reference to the "two
witness rule" in perjury cases. The petitioner was convicted, and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed on the
ground that it was for the court to determine whether the
quantitative rule of evidence in perjury had been satisfied,
that it had been satisfied in this case, and that consequently the District Court had properly refused the requested charge. 143 F. 2d 204. Other Circuits have held
that similar charges should be given. Pawley v. United
States, 47 F. 2d 1024, 1026, (C. C. A. 9); Allen v. United
States, 194 F. 664, 668, (C. C. A. 4).
In granting certiorari we limited review solely to the
question of whether the trial court erred in denying this
charge.
First. The government asks that we reexamine and
abandon the rule which bars a conviction of perjury on the
uncorroborated testimony of a single witness. The argument is that while this quantitative rule as particularly
applied to perjury cases may have been suited to the needs
of the 18th Century, it has long since outlived its usefulness, that it is an incongruity in our modern system of justice, and that it raises an unjustifiable barrier to convictions for perjury.
Our system of justice rests on the general assumption
that the truth is not to be determined merely by the number of witnesses on each side of a controversy. In gauging
the truth of conflicting evidence, a jury has no simple formulation of weights and measures upon which to rely.
The touchstone is always credibility; the ultimate measure of testimonial worth is quality and not quantity.
Triers of fact in our fact-finding tribunals are, with rare
exceptions, free in the exercise of their honest judgment to
prefer the testimony of a single witness to that of many.
The special rule which bars conviction for perjury solely
upon the evidence of a single witness is deeply rooted in

WEILER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

606

past centuries.! That it renders successful perjury prosecution more difficult than it otherwise would be is obvious,
and most criticism of the rule has stemmed from this result. It is argued that since effective administration of
justice is largely dependent upon truthful testimony, society is ill-served by an "anachronistic" rule which tends
to burden and discourage prosecutions for perjury. Proponents of the rule, on the other hand, contend that society is well-served by such consequence. Lawsuits frequently engender in defeated litigants sharp resentments
and hostilities against adverse witnesses, and it is argued,
not without persuasiveness, that rules of law must be so
fashioned as to protect honest witnesses from hasty and
spiteful retaliation in the form of unfounded perjury
prosecutions.
The crucial role of witnesses compelled to testify in
trials at law has impelled the law to grant them special
considerations. In order that witnesses may be free to
testify willingly, the law has traditionally afforded them
the protection of certain privileges, such as, for example,
immunity from suits for libel springing from their testimony.' Since equally honest witnesses may well have
differing recollections of the same event, we cannot reject
as wholly unreasonable the notion that a conviction for
perjury ought not to rest entirely upon "an oath against
an oath." The rule may originally have stemmed from
quite different reasoning, but implicit in its evolution and
continued vitality has been the fear that innocent witnesses might be unduly harassed or convicted in perjury
prosecutions if a less stringent rule were adopted.
Whether it logically fits into our testimonial pattern or
not, the government has not advanced sufficiently cogent
reasons to cause us to reject the rule. As we said in
Hammer v. United States, supra, 626-627, "The applica2 Wigmore
8 See

on Evidence (Third Edition) §§ 2030-2044.
also 8 Wigmore, supra, § 2195g.

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

323 U. S.

tion of that rule in federal and state courts is well nigh
universal. The rule has long prevailed, and no enactment
in derogation of it has come to our attention. The
absence of such legislation indicates that it is sound and
has been found satisfactory in practice." 4
Second. The court below held, and the government argues here, that it is solely the function of the judge finally
to determine whether a single witness and sufficient corroborative evidence have been presented to sustain a conviction. Two elements must enter into a determination
that corroborative evidence is sufficient: (1) that the evidence, if true, substantiates the testimony of a single
witness who has swcrn to the falsity of the alleged perjurious statement; (2) that the corroborative evidence is
trustworthy. To resolve this latter question is to determine the credibility of the corroborative testimony, a
function which belongs exclusively to the jury.' Thus, to
permit the judge finally to pass upon this question would
enable a jury to convict on the evidence of a single wit-

ness, even though it believed, contrary to the belief of the
4After

a careful study made by a joint Parliamentary Committee,
looking to a codification of English criminal laws, it unanimously
recommended and Parliament passed the following law:
"A person shall not be liable to be convicted of any offence against
this Act, or of any offence declared by any other Act to be perjury or
subornation of perjury, or to be punishable as perjury or subornation of perjury solely upon the evidence of one witness as to the falsity
of any statement alleged to be false." Perjury Act, 1911, 1 & 2
Geo. V, c. 6, § 13, Public General Acts, 1st & 2nd Geo. V, 1911;
Parliamentary Debates, Lords, Vol, VII, 1911, pp. 143-146; Reports
from the Joint Select Committee of the House of Lords and the House
of Commons on the Licensing (Consolidation) Bill and the Perjury
Bill [H. L.], 1910, No. 321, p. 62. Cf. State v. Storey, 148 Minn. 398,
182 N. W. 613; Marvel v. State, 33 Del. 110, 131 A. 317.
5See State v. Hill, 223 N. C. 711, 28 S. E. 2d 100; Brown v. State,
101 Tex. Crim. Rep. 639, 644, 276 S. W. 929; Clower v. State, 151 Ark.
359, 236 S.W. 265; Madden v. State, 26 Okla. Cr. 251, 223 P. 716.

WEILER v. UNITED STATES.
606

Opinion of the Court.

trial judge, that the corroborative testimony was wholly
untrustworthy. Such a result would defeat the very purpose of the rule, which is to bar a jury from convicting for
perjury on the uncorroborated oath of a single witness.
It is the duty of the trial judge, when properly requested,
to instruct the jury on this aspect of its function, in order
that it may reach a verdict in the exercise of an informed
judgment. Cf. Bruno v. UnitedStates, 308 U. S. 287. The
refusal of the trial judge to instruct the jury as requested
was error.
Third. It is argued that this error did not prejudice
the defendant. We cannot say that it did not. The jury
convicted without being instructed that more than the
testimony of a single witness was required to justify their
verdict. This was no mere "technical" error relating to
the "formalities and minutiae" of the trial. Bruno v.
United States, supra, 293, 294. We are not authorized to
look at the printed record, resolve conflicting evidence,
and reach the conclusion that the error was harm less because we think the defendant was guilty. That would be
to substitute our judgment for that of the jury and, under
our system of justice, juries alone have been entrusted
with that responsibility. Nor are we compelled to conclude that this error was harmless because of our action in
Goins v. United States, 306 U. S. 622, by which we left undisturbed a holding of the Circuit Court of Appeals that
Goins, convicted for perjury, had not been prejudiced by
the refusal of a charge on the two witness rule. Goins v.
United States, 99 F. 2d 147. That case was decided on the
basis of its own peculiar facts and cannot be extended to
the facts of this one.
Reversed.

