OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. BRITTON & Another.
ON CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION

IN OPINION, FROM THE EASTERN

DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Decided April 2d, 1883.

Indictment-National.Bank.
It is no violation of the provisions of § 5440 Rev. Stat., subjecting to penalties
persons conspiring to commit an offence against the United States, and
persons doing acts to effect the object of the conspiracy ; and no violation
of 5209 Rev. Stat., subjecting to punishment a president or a director of
a national banking association who wilfully misapplies the money, funds
or credits of the association, if the president and such a director conjointly
cause shares in the capital stock of such association to be purchased with
the money of the association, and held on trust for its benefit.

Indictment for conspiracy by Britton as president and Bates
as director of a national banking association, to injure and defraud the association by wilful misapplication of its money.
Rev. Stat. §§ 5209, 5440. The acts which formed the subject
of the alleged conspiracy are the same which are set forth in
the counts in the indictment from 77 forward in United States
v. Britton, 107 U. S.655, and which were there held, when not
charged as a conspiracy, not to be violations of the statutes.
.Mk. Assistant Attorney-General .2aury for the United
States.
-1r. Geo. I Shields and .Xr. Chtester A. .Y'um for defendants.
WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the indictment contained two counts. They
charged a conspiracy between James I. Britton and Barton
Bates, the first being president and a director and the latter a
director of the same banking association, to misapply its funds
by the purchase therewith of the shares of the association.
The first count described the offence which defendants conspired to commit substantially as it is set forth in count seventy-seven, and the second count described the offence as the same
MR. JUSTICE

UNITED STATES v. BRITTON.
Statement of Facts.

is set forth in comt ninety-seven in United States v. Britton,
107 U. S. 655.
The judges of the circuit court were divided in opinion upon
the question whether the counts sufficiently stated an offence
under sections 5209 and 5440 of the Revised Statutes, and the
same has been duly certified to us for our opinion. What we
have said in United States v. Britton cited above, disposes of

this question.
M answer in the negative.

UNITED STATES v. BRITTON.
ON CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION INh OPINION, FROM THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
. Opinion, April 2d, 1883.

.Tndictent-NationalBanc--.evised Statutes.
1. It is not an offence under § 5209, Rev. Stat., which forbids the wilful misapplication of the moneys of a national banking association by a president of the bank, for such officer to procure the discount by the bank of
a note which is not well secured, and of which both maker and indorser
are, to the knowledge of the president, insolvent when the note is discounted; and to apply the proceeds of the discount to his own use.
2. Assuming that it was the duty of a president of a national banking association to prevent the withdrawal of deposits while the depositor is indebted
to the association, he is, nevertheless, not liable for a criminal violation
of § 5209 Rev. Stat., forbidding the wilful misappropriation of the funds
of the bank, solely by reason of permitting a depositor who was largely
indebted to the bank, to withdraw his deposits without first paying his
indebtedness to the bank.

Indictment against the president of a national banking association. The indictment contained three counts. It was found
by the same grand jury as the indictment in case 1o. 406, just

decided, and was remitted and transferred to the circuit court
in like manner.
The first count charged that the defendant, James H. Britton, on March 24th, 1811, within the Eastern District of
VOL. cvII-13

I OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

]Missouri, being the president and a director of the National
Bank of the State of Missouri, the same being a national banking association organized under the act of Congress, "did cause
and procure to be then and there received and discounted by
said association a promissory note, which said note was then
and there in the words and figures following:
ST. Louis, .3arch 24th, 1877.
"Four months after date I promise to pay to the order of Geo.
F. Britton, negotiable and payable at the National Bank of the
State of Missouri, in St. Louis, twenty thousand eight hundred
thirty-five dollars, for value received, without defalcation or discount, with interest, after maturity, at the rate of ten per cent.
per annum.
" J.1H. BRiTToN."

"$20,835.]

That the note was indorsed as follows: "Geo. F. Britton."
That the defendant converted to his own use the proceeds of
the discount of said note, to wit, the sum of $20,251.63; that
said note, when so discounted, was not well secured; that "said
James H. Britton, and the said payee and indorser of said note,
to wit, one George F. Britton, were then and there insolvent,
as he, the said James H. Britton, as president and director as
aforesaid then and there well knew;" and that said James H.
Britton, by procuring said note to be discounted, and by applying the proceeds of said discount to his own use, wilfully misapplied the said sum of $20,251.63 of the money and funds of said
association, with intent then and there to defraud said association and certain persons to the grand jurors unknown.
The second count charged that on June 2d, 1SV7, within the
Eastern District of Missouri, one George F. Britton was indebted to said association in the sum of $79,480.23, as the
maker of five promissory notes then unpaid. That said indebtedness of George F. Britton was known to James I. Britton, president and director of said association; that on said
June 2d, 1877, said notes were not well secured and said George
F. Britton was insolvent, both of which facts said James El.
Britton then well knew. Nevertheless, said James I. Britton,

UNITED STATES v. BRITTON.
Statement of Facts.

as president and director of said association, did then and
there receive and discount a note for $800, dated June 2d, 1877,
due and payable on August 5th, 1877, signed by the said
George F. Britton as maker, and indorsed by him, the said
James t. Britton, he then being insolvent, as he then well
knew; that said James I. Britton did then and there pay out
of the moneys and funds of said association, as the proceeds of
said discount, to the said George F. Britton, the sum of $780.45,
contrary to the form of the statute, etc.
The third count charged that on May 18th, 1877, within the
Eastern District of Missouri, said James I. Britton was president and a director of said banking association; that from
April 12th, 1873, to May 18th, 1877, one Alfred M. Britton
had been continuously indebted to said association in the sum
of $37,122.67, as maker of a certain promissory note during
the same period, owned and held by said association, and was
then indebted to said association for interest past due on said
note in the further sum of $4,529.01; that said Alfred M.
Britton was on said May 18th, 1877, insolvent; that on the day
and year last named there was in the moneys and funds of
said association to the credit of said Alfred If. Britton the
sum of $36,860.45; that said James HT. Britton, well knowing the said indebtedness of Alfred M. Britton to said
association and his said insolvency, failed and neglected to
cause to be applied to the said indebtedness of said Alfred M.
Britton the said sum of $36,860.45, so as aforesaid in the
moneys and the funds of said association to the credit of said
Alfred M. Britton, and did then and there wilfully permit said
Alfred M. Britton, while so indebted, to transfer and assign
said sum of $36,860.45 to the credit of the City National Bank
of Fort -Worth, Texas. "And so the said James H. Britton
did wilfully misapply the said sum of $36,860.45 of the moneys
of said association, with intent to injure and defraud said association and certain persons to the grand jurors unknown, contrary," &c.
Upon demurrer to the indictment the judges of the circuit
court were divided in opinion upon the question whether the
several counts charged with sufficient certainty an offence

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.
under section 5209 of the Revised Statutes. The case comes to
this court upon this certificate of division.
.2I&. Assistant Attorney-General -Mfaupry for the -United
States.
3rr. J B. -Henderson, XI&. Geo. 1T. Shields, and -Yr. Chester
-. Irum for defendants.
M,R. XusTioE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not alleged in the first count that the J. H. Britton,
maker of the note discounted, was the James H. Britton who
was president and a director of the association and the defendant
in the indictment, and consequently there is no averment that
the maker of the note was insolvent. Passing by this defect,
and assuming that the maker of the note being the defendant
in this case, the gravamen of the charge is that defendant,
being president and a director of the association, and being insolvent, procured to be discounted his own note, the same not
being well secured, the payee and indorser thereof being also
insolvent, which he, the defendant, well knew. The incriminating facts are that the note was not well secured, and that
both the maker and indorser were, to the knowledge of the
defendant, insolvent when the note was discounted. The question is, therefore, presented whether the procuring of the discount of such a note by an officer of the association is a wilful
misapplication of its moneys within the meaning of the law.
We are clearly of opinion that it is not. It is not even necessarily a fraud on the association.
One branch of the business of a banking association is the
discounting and negotiating of promissory notes, and this is to
be done by its board of directors or duly authorized officers or
agents. Sec. 5136 Rev. Stat. There is no provision of the
statute which forbids the discounting of a note not well secured,
or both the maker and indorser of which are insolvent. It is
vithin the discretion of the directors, or the officers or agents
lawfully appointed by them, to discount such a note if they see
fit, and it might, under certain circumstances, tend to the advantage of the association. This count does not charge that the

UNITED STATES v. BRITTON.
Opinion of the Court.

note of the defendant was discounted at his instance, without
the authority of the board of directors. On the contrary, the
charge is that he caused and procured it to be discounted.
This implies that it was done by the directors or other duly authorized officers or agents. It is not alleged that the discount
was procured by any fraudulent means. From all that appears, the board of directors, or the officer or agent by whom
the note was discounted, may, upon knowledge of all the facts,
in the utniost good faith and for the advantage of the association, have decided to discount the note. The discount may
have turned out to be a benefit to the association, for there is
no averment that the note was not paid at maturity or that the
association suffered any loss by reason of its discount.
But whether the discounting of the note was an advantage
to the association or not, and whether the note was paid or
not, is immaterial. If an officer of a banking association, being
insolvent, submits his own note, with an insolvent indorser as
security, to the board of directors for discount, and they, knowing the facts, order it to be discounted, it would approach the
verge of absurdity to say that the use by the officer of the proceeds of the discount for his own purposes, would be a wilful
misapplication of the funds of the bank, and subject him to a
criminal prosecution. The count under consideration charges
nothing more than this against the defendant. We are of
opinion, therefore, that it does not charge an offence under section 5209 of the Revised Statutes.
What we have said in reference to the first count of this indictment also applies in all respects to the second. We are,
therefore, of opinion that it also does not charge an offence
under section 5209.
In respect to the third count, we observe that the statute, section 5130, clause seven, places the conduct of the business of
banking associations with its board of directors or its duly authorized officers or agents. Section 5145 provides that the
affairs of each banking association shall be managed by not less
than five directors to be chosen by the shareholders. It is alleged in this count that the defendant was the president and
one of the directors of the association. But he was only one

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

of at least five directors. The only duties imposed on him as
president were to certify payments on the capital stock of the
association, sec. 5140, to cause to be kept in the office where
the business of the association was transacted a list of the
shareholders, sec. 5210, and to verify by his oath the general
reports made by the association to the comptroller of the currency, see. 5211, and the reports of dividends declared, sec.
2212. It is nowhere averred in this count that the defendant
was the duly authorized officer or agent of the association,
whose duty it was to look after the accounts of depositors, to
apply the sums standing to their credit to the payment of their
obligations to the association, or to prevent the withdrawal or
transfer of their deposits while they continued indebted to the
association, or that he was even charged with a general superintendence of the affairs of the association. Until it is shown
that some officer or agent of the bank was duly authorized to
take charge of this branch of the business of the association,
the presumption is that it was the duty of the board of directors, and if such was the fact, the defendant was powerless to
Britton to the
prevent the transfer of the deposits of Alfred MAP.
credit of the City National Bank of Fort Worth. At all
events, it is not charged that it was his duty to prevent such
transfer, and this constitutes a fatal defect in the indictment.
But even if the defendant had been charged with the duty
of looking after the deposits of debtors of the association and
of applying their deposits to the payment of their debts, we do
not think that the fact that he permitted Alfred . Britton,
while indebted to the association, to withdraw and assign to
the City National Bank of Fort Worth his deposit, would constitute a criminal misapplication by the defendant of the funds
of the association.
The count charges neither application nor misapplication by
the defendant of the funds of the association. It merely
charges that he failed to apply certain funds standing to the
credit of Alfred A. Britton to the payment of Britton's debt.
Britton to do a perIt charges that he permitted Alfred IVM.
fectly lawful act, namely, to withdraw his own funds from the
association and transfer them to another bank.

UNITED STATES v. BRITTON.
Statement of Facts.

This might be an act of maladministration on the part of
the defendant. It might show neglect of official duty, indifference to the interests of the association or breach of trust,
and subject the defendant to the severest censure and to removal from office; but to call it a criminal misapplication by
him of the moneys and funds of the association, would be to
stretch the words of this highly penal statute beyond all reasonable limits.
In our judgment the count under consideration, as well as
the first and second, is bad.
We, therefore, answer the first, third, and fourth questions
submitted to us by the judges of the circuit court in the
negative.

UNITED STATES v. BRITTONT.
ON CERTIIICATE OF DIVISION OF OPINION F.ROM THE PASTERN
DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Decided April 2d, 1883.

Fraud-Indictment-NationalBanks.
1. In an indictment for a conspiracy under § 5440 Rev. Stat., the conspiracy
must be sufficiently charged: it cannot be aided by averments of acts
done by one or more of the conspirators in furtherance of the object of
the conspiracy.
2. The procuring by two or more directors of a national banking association
of a declaration of a dividend by the bank at a time when there are no
net profits to pay it, is not a wilful misappropriation of the money of
the association within the provisions of § 5204 Rev. Stat. ; aid an allegation of a conspiracy to do that act is not an allegation of a conspiracy

to commit an offence against the United States.

Indictment against two directors of a national bank for
conspiracy to defraud the bank.
Section 5440 of the IRevised Statutes declates:
"If two or more persons conspire
fence against the United States, .

to commit any ofand one or more of

such parties do any act to effect the object of the conspiracy, all

OCTOBER TERMT, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

the parties to such conspiracy shall be liable to a penalty of not
less than one thousand dollars, and to imprisonment not more than
two years."
Section 5209 of the Revised Statutes provides as follows:
"Every president, director, cashier, teller, clerk or agent of
any" banking "association who embezzles, abstracts, or wilfully
misapplies any of the moneys, funds or credits of the association,
.

.

.

or who makes any false entry in any book, report or

statement of the association, with intent in either case to injure
or defraud the association, or any company, body politic or corporate, or any individual person, or to deceive any officer of the
association, or any agent appointed to examine the affairs of such
association,

.

.

.

shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,

and shall be imprisoned not less than five years nor more than
ten."

The defendants were indicted under section 5440 of the Revised Statutes. The indictment contained two counts. The
first count charged, in substance, as follows: That Britton was
the president and a director of the National Bank of the State
of Missouri, in St. Louis, a national banking association organized under the act of Congress, and that Bates was vice-president and a director of the same association; that Britton and
Bates, while president and vice-president respectively, and directors of said association, did conspire with each other to wilfully misapply a large sum of money belonging to and the
property of said associatibn, to wit, the sum of $87,500, by
means of procuring to be made, on June 30th, 1876, by the
said association, a dividend of three and one-half per centum
on the capital stock of the association, which said dividend was
to be greater, in the sum of $87,500, than the net profits of
said association on hand after deducting from said net profits
the amount of the losses and bad debts of the association existing on said 30th day of June.
The acts done to effect the object of the conspiracy were, in
substance, alleged as follows: That Britton falsely represented
to one Walsh, who, on June 30th, 1876, was also a director of
the association, that the net profits of the association were on

UNITED STATES v. BRITTON.
Statement of Facts.

that day sufficient in amount to warrant and permit the declaration of said dividend, and did thereby induce the gaid
Walsh to- assent to the declaration of said dividend, and to
join, on said June 30th, as such director, with Britton and
Bates, directors as aforesaid, in the declaration of said divi.
dend, they, the said Britton, Bates and Walsh, constituting a
majority in number of the directors of said association; that,
to effect the object of said conspiracy, Britton did further, upon
the said June 30th, cause and procure to be made by one Edward P. Curtis, in the record of the proceedings of the board
of. directors of said association, the following entry: "St. Louis,
June 30th, 1876. Present, Messrs. Britton and Walsh, Mr.
Bates assenting on the 29th. Ordered that a dividend of 3
per cent. be declared payable on the 10th proximo, and that
the transfer books be closed till that date. Attest, Edward P.
Curtis, cashier;" that afterwards, on July 8th, 1876, in further pursuance of and to effect the object of said conspiracy,
the said Britton and Bates did each receive from said association, and convert to his own use, a large sum of money, the
said Britton the sum of $5,397, and the said Bates the sum of
$1,112.
The second count was similar to the first, except that after
averring that said dividend so to be declared on said June 30th,
1876, was to be false and fraudulent, it was added that there
was on said June 30th, 1876, due and owing to said association
certain debts, specifying them, amounting in the aggregate
to the sum of $797,214.29; that upon such debts there was
owing to the association, then past due and unpaid, interest for
a period of six months; that said debts were "not well secured
and in process of collection," and their aggregate amount was
largely in excess of the net profits and purported net profits of
said association then on hand, as said Britton and Bates then
well knew, and that said debts were bad debts within the
meaning of section 5204 of the Revised Statutes, as said Brittbn and Bates then well knew.
The defendants demurred to the indictment. Upon the
hearing of the demurrer, the judges of the circuit court were
divided in opinion upon the following questions:

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Argument for United States.

1. Whether, under section 5209 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States it was necessary to aver that the alleged
conspiracy was entered into with intent to injure and defraud;
and whether the several counts in this indictment not containing the said allegations are good and sufficient in law.
2. Whether it was necessary in this indictment, in addition
to the allegations charging the conspiracy to wilfully misapply
certain funds and property of the association, by means of procuring to be made by the board of directors a dividend, as alleged in the indictment, to further allege that said dividend was
in pursuance of said conspiracy declared and made; and, if so,
whether the same is sufficiently charged therein, and whether
it was also necessary to allege that said dividend was fraudulent
when declared, and also when paid.
3. Whether, under § 5209 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, it was necessary in this indictment to charge that
the funds alleged to have been misapplied had been previously
intrusted to the possession of the defendants.
4. Whether the indictment in this case alleges with sufficient
certainty that the bank had no net profits out of which to declare and pay the dividend alleged to have been fraudulent.
5. Whether the said defendants, as directors of the said
banking association, are liable to the penalties provided by the
said § 5209 upon proof, that they, as such directors, wilfully
voted for the declaration of a dividend, knowing that there
were no net profits out of which to pay the same; and if liable,
must the indictment charge that such dividend was ordered or
voted for with intent thereby to defraud the association or
other persons.
-Mrl. AssistantAttorney-General-Maury for the United States.
-I. It is asked substantially, whether the absence from any
count of the averment that the conspiracy was entered into with
intent to injure and defraud is fatal to the indictment. There
are only two counts in the indictment, and each of them avers
that the defendants, as directors of the bank, did "conspire,
combine, confederate, and agree together to wilfully misapply,
with intent then and th]ere to injure and defraud the said asso-

UNITED STATES v. BRITTON.
Argument for United States.

ciatotn and certain yerson to the jurors aforead unknown, a

large sum," &c. Seeing, then, that each count does contain
this averment, qucestio cadit.-II. It is next asked whether the
dividend, which was the object of the conspiracy, should be
alleged to have been made, and if so, whether the same is sufficiently charged, and whether it was also necessary to allege
that the dividend was fraudulent when declared. It is submitted that it was not necessary to make any averment in the
indictment of the consummation of the object of the conspiracy.
The offence charged is a conpiracy to do an unlawful act.
Whether the act was done or not is quite immaterial, under this
indictment, there being no handle to say that the conspiracy
was merged in the offence resulting from the success of the
conspiracy. Whart. Or. L. section 1346 (8th ed.); Peope v.
Richards, 1 Manning (Mich.), 216; People v. .ather, 4 Wend.
229. But if it was necessary, the averment made in that behalf
is entirely sufficient. The indictment also alleges with certainty
that the dividend was fraudulent when declared and when paid,
all which, however, is, we submit, surplusage, because the offence
charged is a conspiracy to declare and afterwards to pay
a fraudulent dividend. It is the spirit that anuimated the conspirat.ors, and not the consequences of the conspiracy, that constitutes the offence. Neither is it at all material, under this
indictment, whether the dividend declared was or not paid out
of net earnings, for this, if so, was entirely compatible with a
conspiracy to pay an illegal dividend. How can this court say,
looking at the indictment, and it can look no further,,that in
the state of things mentioned the conspiracy could not have
existed?-III. Was it~necessary under section 5209 to charge
that the funds alleged to have been misapplied had been previously iitrusted to the possession of the defendants? It is submitted that inasmuch as the offence charged is a combination
or conspiracy to misapply the bank's funds by declaring and
paying a fraudulent dividend, the consummation of those objects of conspiracy is not an element of the offence, and therefore it was not necessary to allege that the defendants had been
previously intrusted with the funds misapplied. The actual
misapplication of funds was one offence and the conspiracy to

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

misapply them quite another. The first is an offence under
§ 5440, and the second under § 5209.-IV. The indictment alleges with sufficient certainty that the bank had no net profits,
out of which to declare a dividend. As no dividend could be
declared in such a state of things, it is not easy to see why a
conspiracy to declare one is not indictable.-V. Whether it is
enough to subject the defendants to the penalty of section 5209
to prove that they wilfully voted for the dividend, knowing
there were no net profits, and if so, whether the indictment must
charge that the dividend was ordered or voted for with intent
to defraud the association or other persons. It is, perhaps,
enough to say that no question as to the sufficiency of evidence can arise under the demurrer. The question here is as to
the sufficiency of the indictment, and not as to the measure of
proof necessary to sustain the indictment. The charge is that
the defendants conspired to bring about the declaration and
payment of a fraudulent divideIxd; that the dividend, the object of conspiracy, was in fact declared, and that the defendants
took from the assets of the bank their shares and proportions
of said fraudulent dividend-allegations which axe of themselves sufficiently evincive of fraud upon the bank, its innocent
shareholders and creditors, without any additional averment.
But the indictment is not under section 5209, but under section
5440, which makes it penal to conspire to commit any offence
against the United States. The offence charged is the unlawful
combination to effect an illegal and fraudulent object, and the
sufficiency of an indictment under section 5440 is not to be determined by the requirements for an indictment under section
5209.
.r. r B. Jenderson, .ir. G7eo. IT Shields and I&,. Chester
IT ZKum for the defendants.
WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
The offence charged in the counts of this indictment is a conspiracy. This offence does not consist of both the conspiracy
and the acts done to effect the object of the conspiracy, but of
the conspiracy alone. The provision of the statute, that there
AIR. JUsTIcE

UNITED STATES v. BRITTON.
Opinion of the Court.

must be an act done to effect the object of the conspiracy,
merely affords a lows penitentice, so that before the act done
either one or all of the parties may abandon their design, and
thus avoid the penalty prescribed by the statute. It follows
as a rule of criminal pleading that in an indictment for conspiracy under section 5440, the conspiracy must be sufficiently
charged, and that it cannot be aided by the averments of acts
done by one or more of the conspirators in furtherance of the
object of the conspiracy. Beg. v. Zing, 'I Q. B. 782; Commonwealth v. Shedd, 7 Cush. 514.
The charge against the defendants is a conspiracy to wilfully
misapply the funds of the association. It is alleged in the
counts of this indictment that they, being directors, with intent
to defraud the association, did conspire to wilfully misapply its
moneys and funds by procuring to be declared by the association a dividend of its net profits, when there were no net
profits. sufficient In amount to. pay it.
Such a dividend isforbidden by section 5204 of the Revised
Statutes, which declares as follows:
"No association, or any member thereof, shall, during the time
it shall continue its banking operations, withdraw or permit to be
withdrawn, either in the form of dividends or otherwise, any portion of its capital. If losses have at any time been sustained
by any such association equal to or exceeding its undivided profits
then on hand, no dividend shall be made; and no dividend shall
ever be made by any association while it continues its banking
operations, to an amount greater than its net profits then on hand,
deducting therefrom its losses and bad debts. All debts due to
any association on which interest is past due and unpaid for a
period of six months, unless the same are well secured and in process of collection, shall be considered bad debts within the meaning of this section."
We are, therefore, to inquire whether the conspiracy entered
into by and between the defendants to misapply the moneys of
the association by procuring the declaration by the association
of a dividend greater than the net profits of the association is a
criminal offence against the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1882..
Opinion of the Court.

There are no common-law offences against the United States,
United States v. Hfudson, ' Cranch, 32; United States v. Coolidge, 1 Wheat. 415, and section 5204 does not of itself create
any offence against the United States.
]But it is contended on behalf of the United States that the
procuring of a dividend to be declared by the association when
there are no net profits to pay it is a wilful misapplication of
the moneys and funds of the association, which is made an
offence by section 5209 of the Revised Statutes, and that a
conspiracy to commit this offence is made punishable by section 5440.
We think this construction of the statute is unwarranted, and
that the indictment is based on a misconception of its provisions.
The indictment having charged a conspiracy between the defendants to misapply the moneys of the association, proceeds to
aver by what means the misapplication was to be effected,
namely, by procuring to be declared by the association a dividend when there were no nets profits to pay it. If procuring
the declaring of such a dividend by the association is not a wilful misapplication of its funds by these defendants, then the
indictment charges no offence. The declaring of a dividend by
the association when there were no net profits to pay it is, in
our judgment, not a criminal misapplication of its funds. It is
an act done by an officer of the association in his official and
not in his individual capacity. It is, therefore, an act of maladministration and nothing more, which, while it may subject
the association to a forfeiture of its charter, and the directors
to a personal liability for damages suffered in consequence
thereof by the association or its shareholders, does not render
them liable to a criminal prosecution. The act belongs to the
same class as the purchase by a banking association of its own
shares when not necessary to prevent a loss on a debt due it,
which, in United States v. Britton, 107 U.S. 655, we held not to
be a criminal misapplication of the funds of the association. If,
therefore, the indictment had charged that the defendants had
misapplied the funds of the association by thenselves declaring a
dividend, when there were no net profits to pay it,it would not

UNITED STATES v. BRITTON.
Opinion of the Court.

have charged a criminal act, much less when it merely charges
that they conspired to procure the association to declare a dividend under like circumstances. So that it appears on the face
of the indictment that the conspiracy charged was not a conspiracy to commit an offence against the United States.
We therefore answer the first branch of the fifth question
propounded to us by the judges of the circuit court in the negative.
Our opinion is that under this indictment the defendants are
not "liable to the penalties provided by section 5209, upon
proof that they, as such directors, wilfully voted for the declaration of a dividend, knowing there were no net profits out of
which to pay the same," because this is not the offence with
which they are charged in the indictment. And as they are
charged with a conspiracy to do an act which is not an offence,
we are of opinion that no penalties could be inflicted on them
under the indictment.
As the answer we have given to this question is fatal to the
indictment, it is not necesshry for us to answer the other questions sent to us by the judges of the circuit court.
.Anwer accordingly.
In case No. 410, lTze United States v. James H Britton and
Barton Bates, on certificate of division in opinion from the
same court, the indictment contained five counts, all substantially similar to the counts in case 409, just disposed of. What
we have said in reference to the indictment in case 409 applies
to the indictment in this case. As the indictment is bad, and no
good indictment can be framed upon the facts as they appear
therein, it is unnecessary and we decline to answer the specific
questions submitted to us by the judges of the circuit court.
United States v. Buzzo, 18 Wall. 125.

