OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Syllabus.

shows that the company, as mortgagor, has received all that it
was entitled to demand. The reduction of the rate of interest
by the act of 1879 was by way of relief to the 'mortgagor and
his judgment creditors, and, in no sense, an injury to the mortgagee. When that act was passed there was no person to
answer the description or to claim the rights of a purchaser;
consequently, no existing rights were thereby impaired. That
the reduction of interest to be paid to the purchaser would
lessen the probable number of bidders at the decretal sale, and
thereby diminish the chances of the property bringing the
mortgage debt, are plainly contingencies that might never
have arisen. They could not occur unless there was a decretal
sale, nor unless the mortgagee became thd purchaser; and are
too remote to justify the conclusion, as matter of law, that
such legislation affected the value of the mortgage contract.
One other point remains to be considered. It is said that
the rules of the circuit court requiring payment to the purchaser of interest at the rate of ten per cent., were never modified by any order. The court below, we suppose, proceeded
upon the ground that the interest to be paid to the purchaser by
the party redeeming was of the substance of the rights of both;
consequently that the change, in that respect, made by the
State law prior to the decretal sale, yrop'io 'igore, effected a
modification of the rule without a formal order. In that view
we concur.
For the reasons given the decree below should be affirmed,
and

I is so ordered.

MEDSKER and Wife v. BOINEBRAKE, Assignee.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

STATES

FOR

Bankruptcy-Equity--FrauduentConveyance-Husbandand WifePractice.
1. Where a wife lends to her husband money which is her separate property,
upon his promise to repay it, it creates an equity in her favor which a
court of equity will enforce in the absence of fraud.

MEDSKER v. BOIEBRAIKE.
Statement of Facts.
2. If the husband, being insolvent, mortgages real estate to secure such a
debt to his wife, previously incurred, a court of equity will not set aside
the mortgage as fraudulent against the assignee in bankruptcy if the wife
was ignorant of the insolvency and if there was no fraud.
8. One of two partners files a voluntary petition in bankruptcy, alleging that
the other partner will not join him, and praying to have him declared a
bankrupt: Held, that this, as to the other partner, is a case of involuntary bankruptcy within the meaning of the act of June 22d. 1874, ch.
130, ยง 10, 18 stat. 180.
4. On a reference in equity to a master, the findings of the master are prinu
facie correct. Only such matters are before the court as are excepted to,
and the burden of sustaining the exception is on the objecting party.

This was a suit in equity by an assignee in bankruptcy, to set
aside a conveyance of real estate made shortly before the bankruptcy, by the bankrupt to his wife, through the intervention
of a third party. The following extracts from the report of
the master show the facts found by him:
"On the 2d day of August, 1876, John R. Medsker and wife
conveyed the land described in the bill to Cyrus J. McCole, who,
on the 4th of same month, reconveyed the same to the wife, Elizabeth Medsker, the defendant. At the time of these transfers the
land belonged to John R. Medsker in fee simple.
"On the 1st day of December, 1876, one Poe, with whom
Medsker was in partnership in the hardware business, filed his
petition (voluntary) in bankruptcy, alleging that Medsker would
not join him and making him a party, praying that he be
adjudged a bankrupt.
"On the 29th of December, 1876, -edsker comes in, confesses
bankruptcy, and is adjudged accordingly.
The defendant, the evidence shows, married the bankrupt
M,edsker some thirteen years ago. During the last ten years her
husband came into possession of moneys belonging to her, proceeds mostly of lands, inherited from her father, amounting in
the aggregate to $5,600. She expressly testifies that he agreed
to return it to her, and she always claimed that he was her
debtor to that amount. Under the evidence, I think there is no
doubt she was a creditor at the time of the conveyance. I think
the evidence shows that he was insolvent also at that time,
though not that she knew it. I think the conveyance was mdde

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

and accepted to prefer her to other creditors. Under the evidence as to the value of the land, which is conflicting, I cannot
find that his indebtedness to her was not a reasonable consideration for the conveyance of the land, or that there is such great
disparity between the land and the debt it was conveyed to
satisfy as to indicate bad faith and a purpose to defraud other
creditors."
The master found as law that the bankruptcy was involuntary on Medsker's part; that the transaction was not void
under the statute; and that it was not void for fraud,
The assignee's counsel excepted to this report. 1st. That the
evidence showed that Medsker was a voluntary bankrupt. 2d.
The wife was not a creditor, and knew of the insolvency when
the security was taken. 3d. The conveyance was made with
intent to defeat and defraud creditors; and they also excepted
to the conclusions of law. The court sustained the exceptions
and decreed that the conveyance should be set aside; from
which decree the wife appeals.
.AXr. S. Shellabargerand 31fr. John A. Finch for the appellant.
.f'r. Addison C. Harris and Xr. F ff. Calkins for the
assignee; after arguing on the facts that the wife was not a
creditor and that the transaction was fraudulent, cited Seitz v.
.Zitchell, 91 U. S. 580; fumes v. Scruggs, 94 U. S. 22; Tickes
v. Clarke, 8 IPaige, 161; Resor v. Resor, 9 Ind. 347; Joinson v. Rockwell, 12 Ind. 70; Phillips v. .Fye, 14 Allen, 36;
-Lyne v. Bank of Kent ucky, 5 Marshall, 545 ; WVylie v. Basil, 4
Md. Oh. 327; IYolen's Appeal, 23 Penn. St. 37 ; Besson v. Eveland, 26 N. J. Eq. 468 ; Kline v. _Yc GucXein, 25 N. J. Eq. 423 ;
Dutcher v. Wright, 94 U. S.553 ; Reade v. -Livingston,3 Johns.
Oh. 481 ; Savage v. ffTurphy, 34 N. Y. 508; Case v. Philli s, 93
N. Y. 164; Fox v. 3foyer, 54 N. Y. 125 ;,Jacobs v. IResler, 113
MNass. 157 ; In Pe Jones, 6 Biss. 68; 3f.oyer v. Adams, Assignee,
9 Biss. 390; Lyon v. Green Bay, &c., Railroad Company, 42
Wis. 548.
MR.JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in chancery, brought by Bonebrake, as assignee

MEDSKER v. BONEBRAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

in bankruptcy of John R. Medsker, against said Medsker and
his wife.
The object of the bill is to subject to administration, as part
of the assets of the bankrupt, a farm of 162 acres of land on
which Medsker and his wife were living, the legal title of
which was in Mrs. Medsker.
It appears that on August 2d, 1876, Medsker and wife conveyed this land to McCole, who, on the 4th day of the same
month, conveyed it to Mrs. Medsker, the consideration in each
deed being recited as $8,000.
On December 1st, 1876, one Poe, with whom Medsker was
in partnership in the hardware business, fied his petition in
bankruptcy, alleging that Medsker would not join him and
making him a party, and praying that he be adjudged a bankrupt. On the 29th of that month Medsker came in and confessed himself a bankrupt, and was so adjudged.

The charging part of the bill, as regards the invalidity of the
title conveyed to Mrs. Medsker by these two deeds, reads as
follows:
"On that day, to wit, August 2d, 1876, within four months of
the time of filing said petition in bankruptcy, the said John R.
Medsker, being the owner, in his own right, of the real estate
above described, and being indebted as aforesaid, with the
fraudulent intention of defeating the operation and effect of the
bankrupt law, and with the fraudulent intention of preventing
his property from being distributed and applied in payment of
his debts as provided for in the bankrupt law, and with the intention of preferring, in violation of the provisions of the bankrupt law, a pretended claim of the defendant Elizabeth Medsker,
which claim your orator says was unjust and incorrect, and not a
valid and legal claim against said John R. Medsker, the said
John R. Medsker, together with his wife, the defendant Elizabeth Medsker, did execute, without any consideration whatever,
to one C. J. McCole, who was a party to such fraudulent purpose, a deed of conveyance of said real estate, and the said
grantee, C. J. McCole, in pursuance of the previous understanding and agreement, and for the purpose of carrying out the
fraudulent intent before expressed, did convey said real estate to

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant Elizabeth Medsker, wholly without any consideration, on the 4th day of August, 1876.
"And your orator states that said Elizabeth Aledsker was fully
cognizant of the fraudulent and wrongful intention of said John
R. Medsker, and participated in the same and joined in the deed
to M eCole for the purpose of carrying out the same, and accepted
said fraudulent conveyance from C. J. MeCole with full knowledge of its purpose, and with the intention of carrying out said
fraudulent purpose."
To this bill Medsker and his wife filed their answer, under
oath, in which they admit the conveyances and the bankruptcy
proceedings, but denying all fraud in the transaction, and that
Medsker was in failing circumstances when the deeds were
made, or that they knew or believed he was unable to pay his
debts. They aver that after said conveyances were made a
large part of the indebtedness of Poe and Medsker was paid off
in the ordinary course of business.
They further allege that the conveyances mentioned were
made in order and for the express purpose, and for no other
purpose, of paying a debt of $5,700 which Medsker owed his
wife, and the interest accumulated thereon, for money loaned
by her to him, which he had promised to repay to her on
demand.
It is evident that the bill is framed upon the idea that section
5128 of the Revised Statutes was in force, and that the periods
within which such conveyances by an insolvent could be
assailed as void under the bankrupt law were four and six
months, and all its allegations seemed aimed at such acts as
would be unassailable after those periods. But the act of 1874
has shortened these periods to four and two months in cases of
involuntary Lankruptcy. 18 Stat. 180, ch. 390, ยง 10.
We do not doubt that Medsker's was a case of involuntary
or compulsory bankruptcy within the meaning of this amendment. The distinction intended by this language is clearly between the cases in which the bankrupt himself and of his own
volition initiates proceedings in bankruptcy, and those in which
they are commenced by some one else against him.
In the one case it is voluntary and in the other compulsory.

MEDSKER v. BONEBRAKE.
Opinion of the Odurt.

It is not a voluntary bankruptcy if the man is forced into it
against his will by his partner, any more than by any one else;
and it is compulsory and involuntary if he refuses to join in
such case and is forced into it, as much as in any other enforced
bankruptcy.
These deeds cannot be impeached, therefore, on the grounds
of preference or payment in violation of the bankrupt law.
But whatever may have been the case in the mind of the
pleader who drew the bill, there is language which, if liberally
construed, may be held to charge that these conveyances were
void or voidable, as being made -with the intention of defrauding and cheating creditors generally, and without any.valuable
consideration.
In this view the bill was very loosely drawn, but as issue was
taken on it and testimony produced, we will inquire into its
effect as proof of the charge.
When the pleadings were made up an order was entered,
without objection, referring the case to a master to take the
evidence and report his finding thereon.
He reported that Medsker had received, at various times during the ten years preceding his bankruptcy, moneys belonging
to his wife, mostly proceeds of land inherited from her father,
amounting in the aggregate to $5,600; and that he had agreed
to return it to her, and that she had always claimed that he
was her debtor to that amount. lIe, therefore, finds she was
a creditor at the time of the conveyance. He also finds that
Medsker was insolvent at that time, and that his wife did not
know it; and, on the whole, that the allegations of the bill are
not sustained.
Exceptions to this report were filed, which were sustained by
the court and a decree rendered for the assignee.
The evidence taken by the master was reported with his
findings, and the case seems to have been treated by the court
below without much regard to the finding of the facts by the
master, or any special regard to the exceptions made to his
report. This is not correct practice in chancery cases in the
circuit courts of the United States, whatever may be the rule in
the State courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

The findings of the master are prinafacie correct. Only
such matters of law and of fact as axe brought before the court
by exceptions are to be considered, and the burden of sustaining
the exception is on the objecting party.
In the case before us we are inclined, after a careful examination of the testimony, to concur with the master's report.
It is altogether a matter of the weight of evidence.
1. It is denied that the money was received of the wife by
the husband, and if received, that it was a loan.
The testimony leaves no doubt that there was received from
the estates of the wife's deceased father and brother, at different times, the aggregate sum of $5,700. The wife swears positively that she loaned these suns to her husband, who repeatedly promised to pay her; that at one time, more than a year
before the bankruptcy, they had sharp words or ill-feeling about
it, and he told her he had nothing but the farm and would
convey that to her, and that the conveyances finally made
were in pursuance of his repeated promise to do so. All this
is wholly uncontradicted.
2. Much testimony is taken to prove that the price was so
inadequate as to show fraud, though no such charge is made in
the bill.
The fair result of all the testimony on this point is that the
land was worth about $8,000, the sum recited in the conveyance;
and if interest be computed on the $5,00 from the periods at
which the various sums were received, it will amount to the
full value of the land, if not more, at the time the deeds, were
made.
3. There is no reason to disbelieve Mrs. Medsker when she
swears positively that she did not know nor suspect her husband's insolvency until bankrupt proceedings were commenced.
Her statement is confirmed by the allegation, undisputed,
that between the time of the conveyance and the petition in
bankruptcy $4,000 of their debts were paid, and the bill alleges
that their debts were only $5,000 in excess of their assets.
4. The master, who was present and heard Mrs. Medsker
testify, and could see her manner, and is therefore better able
to determine the weight due to her testimony, says he has no

MEDSKER v. BONEBRAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

doubt she was a creditor, and was in ignorance of Medsker's
insolvency. Dean v..Pearson, 102 Mass. 101.
5. The conveyance first to McCole, who paid nothing, but took
the title in trust for Mrs. Medsker, and from him to her, was to
satisfy the common-law inability to make a direct conveyance
from husband to wife, and is no evidence of fraud.
In the case of the Atlantic National Bank v. Tavener, 130
Mass. 407, that court says: "The question whether a loan by
the wife to the husband, of money which is her separate property, upon his promise to repay it, -creates an equity in her
favor, which a court of equity will enforce, has not been decided in this commonwealth. But it has generally, if not uniformly, been decided in the affirmative in other courts," for
which numerous cases are cited. It is added: "That the jury
in this case having found that the money delivered by the wife
to the husband was by way of loan, and not of gift, and that
his subsequent conveyance of land through a third person to
her in repayment of that loan, was not made with the purpose
of hindering, delaying, or defrauding creditors, that conveyance, to satisfy his equitable obligation to his wife, was not a
voluntary conveyance, and was valid against his creditors.
Bullard v. Briggs, I[ Pick. 533; Forbush v. Willard, 16 Pick.
42; Stetson v. O'Sullivan, 8 Allen, 321; French v. Mfotley, 63
Maine, 326; Grabill v. .oyer, 45 Penn. St. 530; Babcock v.
Eckler, 24 K ew York, 623; S'teadman v. Wilbur, 7 1R. I. 581."
Such is precisely the case here, as reported by the master,
and,.as we think, supported by the evidence; and
The decree of the circuit court is reversed, and the case remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill.

