GROSS v. UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO.

471

Syllabus.
the flour produced is of excellent quality, both in whiteness and
fineness and fitness for transportation and storing.
The printed publications relied on to defeat the appellant's
patent describe the process covered thereby so fully and clearly
as to enable persons skilled in the art to which the invention
relates, to carry on the process. In fact, the description of the
process in the printed publications is, to say the least, quite as
precise, clear, and intelligible as in the specification and claim
of the patent.
The earliest date at which the appellant claims to have invented his improvement is stated by him as in 1872 or 1873.
These publications, therefore, which antedate his invention, one
by at least one year, and the other by twenty-five years, are
fatal to the validity of the patent.
The decree of the circuit court which dismissed the bill must
therefore be affirmed; and
B isso ordered.

GROSS v. UNITED STATES MORTGAGE COTPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

ConstitutionalLaw-llinois-ortgage-Practice-Statute.
The question considered as to when the opinion of the highest court of a State
may be examined for the purpose of ascertaining whether the judgment involves the denial of any asserted right under the Constitution, laws, or

treaties of the United States.
In view of the statutory requirement that the justices of the Supreme Court of
Illinois shall file and spread at large upon the records of the courts written
opinions in all cases submitted to it, such opinions may be examined, in
connection with other portions of the record, to ascertain whether the judgment or decree necessarily involves a federal question within the reviewing
power of this court.
The act of the general assembly of Illinois, in force July 1st, 1875, validating
loans or investments previously made in that State by corporations of other
States or countries authorized by their respective charters to invest or loan
money, is not in conflict with the contract clause of the federal Constitution, nor with that part of the Fourteenth Amendment forbidding a State

from depriving any person of property without due process of law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

Benjamin Lombard negotiated with the United States Mortgage Company-a corporation of the State of New York, having its principal office and place of business in the city of New
York-a loan of $50,000 in gold coin, to be used in the erection
of buildings upon certain unimproved lots in the city of Chicago,
of which he was the owner in fee. To secure the payment of
that sum, with interest, at the rate of nine per cent. per annum,
payable semi-annually in gold coin, he executed-his wife joining him-to that company, August 22d, 1872, a mortgage upon
the said premises, covenanting therein to pay the debt and interest; that the premises were clear of all encumbrances; that
he would warrant and defend the same, suffering no impairment of the mortgage security; and that the mortgage should
stand as security for any money paid for taxes or insurance.
The mortgage provided that, if default was made in the payment of any interest instalment, or there was a failure to pay
the taxes or assessments on the premises, or keep any other
covenant contained in the mortgage, that the whole of the debt
should become at once due at the option of the mortgage company, with the right in the latter to sell the property to the
highest bidder after thirty days' advertisement in some paper
published in Chicago. The mortgage also contained this clause:

"It is understood and agreed that this mortgage is to be subject
to the right of the city to take so much of said lots as shall be
necessary for the opening of and extension of Dearborn street,
being thirty-six feet, more or less, off the west end of said premises; in which event any benefit which may accrue to the said
party of the first part herein may be paid by the city to said
party of the first part direct."
The mortgage, upon the day of its execution, was fied and
recorded in the proper office.
On the 10th day of December, 1872, Lombard sold and conveyed with warranty the whole of the mortgaged premisestogether with the buildings which had been erected thereon
with the money borrowed from the United States Mortgage
Company-to the National Life Insurance Company of
Chicago, of which he was president and a principal stock-

GROSS v. UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO.

479

Statement of Facts.
holder. That conveyance was made expressly subject to the
before-mentioned mortgage. The consideration was $100,173,
a part of which was in the assumption of the debt due the
United States Mortgage Company. In part payment also of
the purchase money, the insurance company executed and delivered to Lombard its promissory note for $12,273 (drawn to
its own order and by it indorsed in blank), payable three years
after date, with interest payable semi-annually at the rate of
ten per cent. per annum. To secure the payment of this note
the insurance company, on the same day, executed and delivered to one J. L. Lombard, as trustee, a trust deed, conveying
the whole of said premises, with covenants of warranty. That
deed was duly recorded. Of that note and trust deed Gross
subsequently became the owner, the note coming into his possession with the indorsement only of the insurance company.
On or about March 17th, 1873, by proper legal proceedings,
thirty-five feet off the west end of said lots were condemned by
the city for the purposes of a street. The sum of $10,952.73
was awarded as compensation for the ground so taken, and
$15,897.84 were afterwards assessed as the value of the benefits
to the remaining portion of the premises.
Benjamin Lombard made default in the payment of interest
due, on and after October 1st, 1873, and failed to pay any
taxes or assessments on the property after 1872. On the 1st
day of January, 1874, the mortgage company elected to declare
the whole debt due.
On or about June 1st, 1874, the insurance company was
adjudged a bankrupt, and an assignee thereof was appointed.
Lombard was also declared a bankrupt. Neither he nor the
insurance company left any-known assets to meet their obligations.
By an act of the general assembly of. Illinois, in force July
1st, 1875, entitled "An Act to enable corporations in other
States and countries.to lend money in Illinois, and to enforce
their securities, and to acquire title to real estate as security," it
was declared, among other things:
"That any corporation 'formed under the laws of any other

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.
State or country, and authorized by its charter to invest or loan
money, may invest or loan money in this State. And any such
corporation that may have invested or lent money, as aforesaid,
may have the same rights and powers for the recovery thereof,
subject to the same penalties for usury, as private persons, citizens
of this State; and when a sale is made under any judgment, decree, or power in a mortgage or deed, such corporation may purchase, in its corporate name, the property offered for sale, and
become vested with the title wherever anatural person might do so
in like cases :Provided, however, That all real estate so purchased
by any such corporation, in satisfaction of any such liability or
indebtedness, shall be offered at public auction, at least once every
year, at the door of the court-house of the county wherein the
same may be situated, or on the premises so to be sold; . . .
and said real estate shall be sold whenever the price offered for it
is not less than the claim of such corporation, including all interest, cost, and other expenses: And provided further, That in
case such corporation shall not, within such period of five years,
sell such lands, either at public or private sale, as aforesaid,
it shall be the duty of the State's attorney to proceed by information, in the name of the people of the State of Illinois, against
such corporation, in the circuit court of the county within which
such land, so neglected to be sold, shall be situated, and such
court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the fact, and
to order the sale of such land or real estate, at such time and
place, subject to such rules as the court shall establish," &c. Laws
of Illinois 1875-6, Act of April 9.
For the purpose of settling several conflicting claims in reference to this property, the assignee in bankruptcy of the insurance company brought this suit in the Superior Court of
Cook County, Illinois, making the United States Mortgage
Company, Gross, and others defendants.
The principal questions in dispute between Gross and the
mortgage company were: 1. Whether the latter acquired any
valid interest or lien upon the premises as against Gross; and
the court of original jurisdiction held that it did. 2. Whether
Gross, as the owner and holder of the note for $12,273, was
entitled to receive the sum awarded as damages for that part

GROSS v. UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO.

481

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of the property taken by the city, or whether the mortgage
company was entitled to it by reason of the terms of the mortgage. That question was ruled in favor of Gross.
Upon appeal to the highest court of Illinois the judgment of
the inferior State court was reversed and set aside, and the
cause remanded "for such other and further proceedings as
unto law and justice shall appertain, with directions to thee
Superior Court to enter a decree giving to appellants [the mortgage company] exclusively the amount found against the city
as damages, and to Gross no part thereof." It was further
adjudged that the mortgage company recover its costs. From
that decree this writ of error has been prosecuted.
21r. Thomas S. A Clelland for plaintiff in error.-I. In
the case at bar the Supreme Court of Illinois has decided that
the United States Mortgage Company could not loan money
in Illinois, and take real estate security, and that the mortgage
made by Lombard to it, August 22d, 1872, was absolutely void
and of no effect, both in law and equity. On that question
this court will treat the ruling of the Illinois court as the law
of this case, and no subsequent rulings of the Illinois court can
be considered -here. Sibbald v. United States, 12 1Pet. 488;
Tyler v. MAfaguire, 17 Wall. 253, and cases cited; Roberts v.
Cooper, 20 How. 467-81; Leese v. Clarkc et al., 20 Cal. 387;
Phelan v. San Francisco, IT. 39; Chickering v. Failes, 29
Ill. 294:; Rising v. Cam, 70 Ill. 596; Chicago & Alton Railroad Company v. People, 72 Ill. 82; Johnson v. Von Hettler,
84 Ill. 315 ; Clearklee v. ifundell, 4 Hlarr. and John. 497. Irrespective of this rule of law, there is another, to wit, that this
court, in passing on local questions peculiar to the several States,
will adopt the rulings of such State courts as settled at and before the time the transaction occurred which is brought in review before this court, and subsequent decisions of the State
court can have no force or effect upon such transactions. Fairfield v. County of Gallatin,100 U. S.47. It is reserved to the
States, either by statute or general policy, to determine whether
foreign corporations shall do business therein. _Newrg Petroleum Company v. Weare, 27 Ohio St. 343 ; The State ex rel.
voL. cvm--31

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

-Drakev. Doyle, 40 Wis. 175; Warton on Conflict of Laws,
ยง 286; Bank of Augusta v. EBarle, 13 Pet. 519; Runyan v. Coster, 14 Pet. 122, 130 ; Story on Conflict of Laws, ยง 430 ; Paul
v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; County of San .Alatteo v. Southern
Pacifdi RailroadCompany, 13 Fed. Rep. 722. Such corporations as defendant in error were prohibited in Illinois, at the
time it took its security, by statute and general policy. Gen.
Incorp. Law of Ill. of 1872, sees. 1 and 26. The contract of
mortgage by Lombard to defendant in error, being prohibited
by statute and against the manifest policy of the State, is a,
nullity. CincinnatiInsurance Company v. Rosenthal, 55 Ill.
85; Carroll v. East St. Louis, 67 Ill. 568; Starkweather v.
Bible Society, 72 Ill. 50. The trust deed of Gross is a contract
and cannot be postponed to another lien by the legislature.
Sinking Fundv. NorthernBank, 1 Metcalfe (Ky.) 174; Mundy
v. )JIonroe,1 Manning (Mich.) 68.-I1. The act of July 1, 1875,
and the decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois, construing
it as retroactive and giving it the effect of curing the mortgage
of August 22d, 1872, from Lombard to defendant in error, and
making that instrument valid as against the note for $12,273,
dated December 10th, 1872, secured by trust deed and assigned
to Gross before maturity, for a valuable consideration without
notice, and before the act of 1875 was passed, are in conflict
with article 1, section 10, and article 14, section 1 of Constitution of the United States. Constitution of the United States,
art. 1, see. 10; Tb., art. 14, see. 1; Cooley's Const. Lim. 4th
ed. 472; Thompson v. .organ, 6 Minn. 292; Alabama Life
Insurance & Trust Company v. Boykin, 38 Ala. 510; Dale v.
.l[etcalf, 9 Penn. St. 109; Orton v. NYoonan, 23 Wis. 102;
Brinton v. Seevers, 12 Iowa, 389; Russell v. Ramsey, Ws Ill.
362; Conway v. Cable, 37 Ill. 82; Deininger v. .oConnell, 41
Ill. 227; Rogers v. HTiggins, 48 Ill. 211; Bronson v. Kinzie, 1
How. 311; Edwards v. lYearzey, 96 U. S. 595; Brine v.
Insurance Company, 96 U. S. 627; .fcCracken v. Hayward,2
How. 608; Barings v. Dabney, 19 Wall. 1; Curran v. Arkansas, 15 How. 304; .2eighen v. Strong, 6 Minn. 177; Shonk
v. Brown, 61 Penn. St. 320; Pearce's eirs v. Patton, 7 B.
Monroe, 162; 3foCarty v. Hoffman, 23 Penn. St. 507; LeBois

GROSS v. UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO.

483

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

v. Bramel, 4 How. 449; Rose et al. v. Sanderson, 38 Ill. 24,7;
Hunter v. Hatch, 45 Il. 178; iYorman v. IHeist, 5 Watts &
Serg. 171; Wright v. Hawkins, 28 Texas, 452; Sherwood v.
Fleming, 25 Texas (supp.), 408; Williamson v. NSew Jersey
Railroad,2 Stewart (N. J.), 311; Smith v. Xorse, 2 Cal. 524;
Garnetv. Stockton, 7 Humph. 84; Ballardv. Ward, 89 Penn. St.
358; Bolton v. Johns, 5 Barr, 145. The law of the State
where a contract is made is a part of the contract, and a subsequent act changing- the law to the prejudice of either party is
void. Bronson v. -Yinzie, 1 How. 311; Brine v. Insurance
Company, 96 U. S. 627; Edwards v. -earzey, 96 U. S. 595;
Fon HTofman v. Quincy,4 Wall. 535; . cCracken v. Hayward,
2 How. 608; Smoot v. Laferty, 7 Ill. 383. And the remedy
on such a contract cannot be taken away or materially affected.
-Edwardsv. -earzey, 96 U. S. 595; Bronson v. Xinzie, 1 How.
311; . undy v. .Monroe, 1 Manning (Mich.) 68; Williamson v.
ew Jersey Railroad,2 Stewart (N. J.), 311. As to construction of retrospective statutes: Bruce v. Schuyler, 9 Ill. 221;
-3farsh v. Chestnut, 14 Ill. 223; Hatcher v. Toledo Railroad
Company, 62 TIl. 477; In re Tuller, 79 Ill. 99; Thompson v.
Alexander, 11 Ill. 54; Hopkins v. Jones, 22 Ind. 310; H~ackley
v. Sprague, 10 Wend. 113 ; Shonk v. Brown, 61 Penn. St. 320;
Moore v. Phillips,7 M. and W. 53"6.-Ill. The assignee of a
promissory note before maturity, secured by a trust deed, takes
it relieved of any equities existing between the original mortgagor and third persons. Carpenterv. Longan, 16 Wall. 271;
.Yennicott v. Supervisors, Ib. 452; NYew Orleans,&c., Company
v. .Afontgomery, 95 U. S. 16; Sawyer v. Prickett, 19 Wall. 146166. The decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois, as to the
nature of the right acquired by Gross to the security of the
trust deed made by the insurance company, and as to whether
it is such a right as could be impaired or destroyed by State
legislation, is reviewable in this court; and this court will determine for itself, by reference to the general rules of law appertaining to the subject, as to the nature and extent of that right,
and whether it is a right of property protected by the Constitution of the United States. Delmas v. Insurance Company,
14 Wall. 661; University v. People, 99 U. S. 309-321 ; Jefer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

son Bank v. S-kelly, 1 Black, 436; Bridge Proprietors v.
7oboken Company, 1 Wall. 116.-IV. Subsequent to the execution of the mortgage from Lombard to the mortgage
company, and before July 1, 1875, the date of the act under
which the mortgage company could lend money in Illinois and
take real estate securities, the city of Chicago condemned the
west 35 feet of the property, and a judgment was rendered
against it for $10,952 T-, as the value of the 35 feet, which
damages, by the terms of the mortgage, were to go to Lombard
direct, but Lombard having sold the entire property-including
this 35 feet-to the insurance company, and the insurance
company having executed a trust deed on the entire property
to secure the note bought by Gross, it follows that Gross
acquired all of Lombard's interest in these damages. These
rights were vested in Gross, and under section 10, article 1,
and section 1, article 14 of the Constitution of the United
States, could neither be affected by the act of July 1st, 1875, nor
by the construction given it by the Illinois Supreme Court in
this case.
X&.

Wirt Dexter for defendant in error.

MR. JusTTIcE ARL N, after stating the foregoing facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The first point to be considered relates to the jurisdiction of
this court. The defendant in error insists that it does not appear from the record that the decision of the Supreme Court of
Illinois was adverse to any asserted right under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States, nor that the judgment or decree complained of could not have been passed without the determination of any such federal question. Dugger v.
Bocock, 94 U. S. 603; .Xurdock v. City of -Memphis, 20
Wall. 590. This proposition depends upon the inquiry whether
the opinion of the State court, made part of the transcript, can
be examined for the purpose of ascertaining the grounds upon
which that court based its final decree.
In Gibson v. Chouteau, 8 Wall. 314; Rector v. Asdey, 6 Ib.
142, and Tilliams v. -orris, 12 Wheat. 111, it was ruled that

GROSS v. UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO.

485

Opinion of the Court.
the opinion of the State court constituted no part of the record,
for the purpose of determining whether this court will re-examine its final judgment or decree. Amd in Parmeleev. Lawrence,
11 Wall. 38-where the question arose as to the effect to be
given to the certificate of the chief justice of the State court,
showing that a federal question was raised and decided adversely to the party bringing the case here for review-it was
said:
"If this court should entertain jurisdiction upon a certificate
alone, in the absence of any evidence of the question in the
record, then the supreme court of the State can give the jurisdiction in every case where the question is made by counsel in argument."
To the same effect are Lawler v. Walker, 14 How. 149 ; and
Railroadv. Rook, 4 Wall. 177. But in Aurdock v. City of
.AYen~his, 20 Wall. 590, the subject was again under consideration, by reason of the omission from the act of 1867 of that
provision in the 25th section of the act of 1789 restricting this
court, when reviewing the final judgment or decree of the highest court of a State, to the consideration of such errors as appeared "on the face of the record." It was there said, that, in
determining whether a federal question was raised and decided
in a State court:
"This court has been inclined to restrict its inquiries too much by
this express limitation of the inquiry 'to the face of the record."'
"What was the record of a case," the court observed, speaking by
Mr. Justice Miller, "was pretty well understood as a common
law phrase at the time that statute was enacted. But the statutes
of the States, and new modes of proceedings in those courts, have
changed and confused the matter very much since that time. It
is in reference to one of the necessities thus brought about that
this court long since determined to consider as part of the record
the opinions delivered in such cases by the Supreme Court of
Louisiana. Grand Gulf _ailroad Company v. Afarshall, 12
How. 165 ; Cousin v. Blane's Executor, 19 id. 202. And though
we have repeatedly decided that the opinions of other State courts
cannot be looked into to ascertain what was decided, we see no

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

reason why, since this restriction is removed, we should not so far
examine those opinions, when properly authenticated, as may be
useful in determining that question. We have been in the habit
of receiving the certificate of the court, signed by its chief justice
or presiding judge, on that point, though not as conclusive, and
these opinions are quite as satisfactory, and may more properly
be treated as part of the record than such certificates."
The opinion of the State court in the present case is properly
authenticated, and there is, in addition, the certificate of its
chief justice, showing that the present plaintiff in error not only
claimed that the deed of trust by the National Life Insurance
Company gave, when executed, a lien superior to that asserted
by the United States Mortgage Company under Lombard's
mortgage, but that the act of the legislature of Illinois, in force
July 1st, 1875, in so far as it attempted to validate mortgages
like the one taken by that company from Lombard, was in conflict, as well with the contract clause of the Constitution of the
United States, as with that part of the 14th Amendment which
prohibits a State from depriving a person of property without
due process of law; -further,that the latter claim was decided
adversely to plaintiff in error.
We cannot, therefore, doubt that in the existing state of
the law it is our duty to examine the opinion of the Supreme
Court of Illinois, in connection with other portions of the
record, for the purpose of ascertaining whether this writ of
error properly raises any question determined by the State
court adversely to a right, title, or immunity, under the
Constitution or laws of the United States and specially set up
and claimed by the party bringing the writ. Any difficulty
existing upon this subject is removed by that provision of
the Revised Statutes of Illinois which requires, not only that
the justices of the supreme court of the State shall deliver
and file written opinions in cases submitted to it, but that
"such opinions shall also be spread at large upon the records
Rev. Stat. Ill. 1874, p. 329, ch. 37, ยง 16.
of the court."
This statutory provision would seem to bring the case within
the rule which permits an examination of the opinions of

GROSS v. UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO.

487

Opinion of the Court.
the Supreme Court of Louisiana to ascertain whether the
case was determined upon any ground necessarily involving
a federal question within the reviewing power of this court.
The opinion of the State court, 93 Ill. 483, in this case,
shows that the decree is based upon these grounds: 1. That
the laws of Illinois, in force when the mortgage of August 22d,
1872, was executed, as well as her public policy, as disclosed in
legislative enactments for many years, prohibited the United
States Mortgage Company from taking mortgages upon real
property, in that State, to secure the repayment of money
loaned; consequently, that no title passed to it under or by
virtue of that mortgage. 2. That such mortgage was, however, validated by the act in force July 1st, 1875. This last
proposition was, as the opinion shows, contested in the State
court by the present plaintiff in error, upon grounds indicated
in the certificate of its chief justice.
We are here met by the suggestion that the decree can be
sustained, apart from the validating act of 1875, upon the
ground that the mortgage of Lombard to the United States
Mortgage Company was not inconsistent with the statutes of
Illinois in force at the time of its execution, or with any public
policy declared in the legislation of that State. This view is basd
upon Stevens v. Pratt,101 Ill. 206, and Commercial Urnion
Assunrcnce Company v. Scammon, 102 Ill. 46, determined subsequently to the decree in this case. Those cases directly involved the validity of mortgages upon real estate taken from
other parties by the United States Mortgage Company prior to
the act of July 1st, 1875. The decision in each was that a loan
made by a foreign corporation, prior to that act, to a citizen of
Illinois, and secured by mortgage, was neither prohibited by
any legislation of that State, nor contrary to its public policy,
and that such mortgage could be foreclosed and the title to the
mortgaged real estate thereby passed. So mich of the opinion
of the Supreme Court of Illinois in this case as held to the contrary was expressly declared in Stevens v. Pratt and Commercil Union Assurance Company v. Scammon, to be erroneous.
But it is contended, in behalf of plaintiff in error, that the
decree below, in so&far a it declares Lombard's mortgage to be

OCTOBER TERMI, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

invalid, isan adjudication, as between the parties to this case,
of a purely local question, of which, upon writ of error, we may
not take cognizance; consequently, it is argued, this court,
without reference to the later decisions of the State court,
must determine the federal question here raised upon the basis
established by that court in this case, viz., that Lombard's mortgage was, when given, inoperative, under the local law, to pass
title to the United States Mlortgage Company. Without expressing any opinion as to the soundness of this position, and
assuming, for the purposes of this case only, that Lombard's
mortgage was, for the reasons given by the State court, invalid
under the local law, we proceed to inquire whether the act of
1875, in its application to that mortgage, is in conflict with any
provision of the Constitution of the United States.
That the act in question is not repugnant to the Constitution,
as impairing the obligation of a contract, is, in view of the
settled doctrines of this court, entirely clear. Its original invalidity wdis placed by the court below upon the ground that
the statutes and public policy of Illinois forbade a foreign corporation from taking a mortgage upon real property in that
State to secure a loan of money. Whether that inhibition
should be withdrawn was, so far at least as the immediate
parties to the contract were concerned, a question of policy
rather than of constitutional power. When the legislative
department removed the inhibition imposed, as well by statute
as by the public policy of the State, upon the execution of a contract like this, it cannot be said that such legislation, although
retrospective in its operation, impaired the obligation of the
contract. It rather enables the parties to enforce the contract
which they intended to make. It is, in effect, a legislative
declaration that the mortgagor shall not, in a suit to enforce
the lien given by the mortgage, shield himself behind any
statutory prohibition or public policy which prevented the
mortgagee, at the date of the mortgage, from taking the title
which was intended to be passed as security for the mortgage
debt. We repeat here what was said in Satteree v. .Eatthewson, 2 Pet. 380, and, in substance, in Watson v. _fercer, 8 Pet.
88, that "it is not easy to perceive how a law, which gives

GROSS v. UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO.

489

Opinion of the Court.

validity to a void contract, can be said to impair the obligation
of that contract." The doctrine of those cases was approved
at the present term, in Ewell v. Daggs, ante, p. 43, where, speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews, it was said, touching legislation
of this character,
"that the right of a defendant to avoid his contract is given by
statute, for purposes of its own, and not because it affects the
merits of his obligation; and that whatever the statute gives,
under such circumstances, as long as it remains infieri, and not
realized by having passed into a completed transaction, may, by a
subsequent statute, be taken away. It is a privilege that belongs to
the remedy, and forms no element in the'rights that inhere in
the contract. The benefit which he has received as the consideration of the contract, which, contrary to law, he actually made, is
just ground for imposing upon him, by subsequent legislation, the
liability he intended to incur." Ante, p. 151.
But it is contended that, by his purchase, prior to the passage
of the act of 1875, of the note secured by the deed of trust
given by the National Life Insurance Company, the plaintiff
in error acquired a vested right of property, of which he could
not, under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution, be
deprived by subsequent legislation. We do not perceive that
Gross was, by that act, deprived of any substantial right of
property. If, as held by the court below, in this case, the title
to the real estate did not pass from Lombard at the date and
by virtue of his mortgage, and if, because of its invalidity
under the laws and public policy of the State, he was at liberty
to convey a complete title to tae insurance company, we have
seen that the latter took the title subject to the mortgage, and,
in addition, expressly assumed to pay the amount of the debt
due from Lombard to the mortgage company. Apart from
the supposed inability of the mortgage company, resulting from
the statutes and public policy of the State, to take title by
mortgage to the premises, Lombard was personally liable to it
for the money he had borrowed. He could not have escaped
that personal liability upon the ground that the mortgage, in
so far as it gave a lien upon the property, was invalid. The
claim of the company against him for the money he obtained

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

from it was separable from, and wholly independent of, any
lien upon the premises. And, as between Lombard and the insurance company, that personal liability of the former for the
mortgage debt was protected by the very terms of the conveyance to the latter. If the acceptance of title, subject to the
mortgage, did not, because of its invalidity, give a lien upon
the premises, it is clear that Lombard, as against the insurance
company, had, upon recognized principles of equity, a vendor's
lien for so much of the purchase money as was equal to or was
represented by the debt due from him to the mortgage company. Of the existence of that liability upon the part of Lombard, and of the agreement by the insurance company to protect him against it, Gross had notice from the deed of trust.
He claims under the insurance company, and can assert no right
inconsistent with its obligation to meet, as part of the purchase
money, Lombard's debt to the mortgage company. Without
the act of 1875, a court of equity, in enforcing alien for the note
held by Gross, could not have ignored the equitable lien which,
as vendor, Lombard had for his protection against the mortgage
debt, subject to which, as we have seen, he passed the title to
the insurance company. The entire argument in behalf of
Gross proceeds upon the erroneous ground that when he purchased the note in question there was no lien upon the property
in favor of any one for any amount whatever, except that given
by the deed of trust to secure the note for $12,273. The effect,
then, of the act of 1875 was not to deprive Gross of any superior exclusive lien upon the premises. It only enabled the
mortgage company to enforce the lien attempted to be given
by the mortgage of 1872, rather than leave the property subject to a lien for a like amount in favor of Lombard, from
whom the insurance company, under which Gross claims, purchased. This view, without presenting others leading to the
same result, indicates that the act of 1875 was not inconsistent
with that clause of the Constitution of the United States which
inhibits a State from depriving any person of property without
due process of law.
The federal questiorn aving been correctly determined, the
decree is acfflrmed.

