OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Syllabus.

ing, hold certain real and personal property in trust to secure
a debt owing by him and the defendant Gay to the defendant
Winchester, and after the debt is paid for the use and benefit
of himself and Gay. lHe asks for an accounting by the trustees, the removal of Wasey and Whiting, and the appointment
of others in their places; and after the debt is paid, a conveyance of what remains of the trust property in accordance with
the terms of the trust. The case presents but a single controversy, although it involves the determination of several questions. It may be that Winchester is the principal defendant
in interest, but full and complete relief cannot be afforded in
respect to the single cause of action, to wit, the trust, without
the presence of all the parties to the suit. According to the
averments in the bill all the defendants, except Henry M4.
Loud, deny the existence of the trust, and if that should be established, all the defendants are directly interested in the relief
that is asked. The case falls clearly -within the rule stated in
Hlyde v. Rub/e, 104 U. S. 407.
T1w order emandinq the &uitis afitmed.

ELLIOTT v. SACKETT and Another.
APPEAL FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Decided March 26th, 1883.

Contract-Equity-istake--Negligence.
By a written agreement between S. and E., S. agreed to convey land to E.
"subject to" an incumbrance on it of $9,000, and E. agreed to pay to S.
$15,000, by conveying to him land, some of it "subject to" an incumbrance. Without any further bargain, S. delivered to E. a deed, conveying the land "subject to" the incumbrance, and also containing a clause
stating that E. assumes and agrees to pay the debt secured by the incumbrance, as a part of the consideration of the conveyance. E., being ill, did
not read the clause in the deed respecting the assumption of the debt, but
discovered it afterwards, and promptly brought this suit to have the deed
reformed. He had made two payments of interest on the incumbrance. In
the negotiations prior to the agreement, S., through his agent, had solicited E. to assume and agree to pay the incumbrance, but E. refused. S.

ELLIOTT v. SACKETT.
Statement of Facts.
understood the difference in meaning between the two forms of expression.
D., the owner of the incumbrance, was no party to the transaction, and
had done nothing in reliance on the deed. He was, on his own application,
made a party to the suit, and also filed a cross-bill for a foreclosure of the
incumbrance, and the inforcement of a personal liability against S. and E.
for the debt. The circuit court made a decree dismissing the bill in the
original suit, and adjudging that B. had agreed with S. to pay the amount
due on the incumbrance ; that S. and E., or one of them, should pay the
debt due to D., and, in default thereof, the land should be sold, and the
deficiency reported ; and that, if S. should pay any part of the debt, he
might apply for an order requiring E. to repay the amount to him. On an
appeal by E. : Held,
1. The decree was a final decree, as to E.
2. The amount involved in the original suit was the $9,000.
3. The agreement created no liability on the part of E. to pay the debt to D.
4. There was a departure in the deed, through mutual mistake, from the terms
of the actual agreement.
5. Under the special circumstances of the case E. had a right to presume that
the deed would conform to the written agreement, and was not guilty of
such negligence or laches in not observing the provisions of the deed as
should preclude him from relief, nor was he guilty of any laches in seeking a remedy.
6. The payment by E. of interest on the incumbrance was not inconsistent
with his not having assumed the payment of the debt.
7. E. is entitled to have the deed reformed.
The case of Snell v. Insurance Co., 98 U. S.85, cited and applied.

Bill in equity to reform a contract.
In February, 1876, George A. Sackett and John A. -Elliott
executed a written agreement under seal, which provided that
if Elliott should first make the payments and perform the covenants thereinafter mentioned on his part to be made and performed, Sackett agreed to convey to him "in fee simple, clear

of all incumbrances, except as stated, whatever," by a warranty
deed, "the house and lot known as No. 166 Calumet avenue,
the lot 50 x 127 feet," in Chicago, Illinois, and to assign the
insurance policy then "on said improvements," and to pay to
Elliott $50; that Elliott agreed to pay to Sackett $15,000,

"subject to an incumbrance now on said property" of $9,000,
"in the manner following : Lots 8, 9, and 10, block 5, Pittner

& Son's addition to So. Evanston, being 150 x 200 feet, subject
to an incumbrance of $1,750, and interest at eight per cent.
from June, 1873; also, lot one (1), block seven (7), Grant's sub-

OCTOBER TERM1, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

division of So. Evanston, and 120 acres of land, Palo Alto Co.,
Iowa; the two last named pieces of property are clear of incumbrances; and title to pass by good and sufficient warranty
deeds; and to pay all taxes, assessments, or impositions that
may be legally levied or imposed upon said lots, except and
after the fourth installment of South Park assessment;" and,
in case of the failure of Elliott to make either of the payments,
or perform any of the covenants on his part, the contract to be
forfeited and determined, at the election of Sackett, and Elliott to fulfil all payments made by him on the contract, and
such payments to be retained by Sackett in full satisfaction
and liquidation of all damages by him sustained, and he to
have the right to re-enter and take possession.
By a warranty deed dated March 8th, 1876, acmowledged
the same day, and recorded March 10th, 186, Sackett and his
wife conveyed to Elliott the Calumet avenue property, by a
proper description. The deed expressed a consideration of
$15,000, and contained this clause:
"This conveyance is made subject to a trust deed executed by
the parties of the first part" (Sackett and wife) "to John De
Koven, on the (10th) tenth day of lay, 1870, securing the notes
of said George A. Sackett to Hugh T. Dickey, for nine thousand
dollars, due four years from that date, with interest of nine per
cent. per annum, interest payable semi-annually; and a further
extension of payment commencing on the tenth day of M1ay, 1874,
for same amount above mentioned (nine thousand dollars), payable in five years from said date, with interest of nine per cent., the
interest notes payable semi-annually, which debt, with its interest,
the said party of the second part" (Elliott) "assumes and agrees
to pay as part of the consideration of this conveyance, or purchase
price-above stated. The covenants hereinafter are subject to the
above incumbrance."
Then followed covenants of seizin and warranty and against
incumbrances.
The controversy in the present case arose out of the difference between the written agreement executed by the parties
and the deed to Elliott, there being no question as to the con-

ELLIOTT v. SACKETT.
Statement of Facts.

veyances by Elliott of the land which he agreed to convey. By
the agreement the Calumet avenue property was to be conveyed
subject to the $9,000 incumbrance. -By the deed the conveyance was not only made subject to the incumbrance, but Elliott
was made to assume and agree to pay the $9,000 debt as part
of the consideration of the conveyance, or purchase price of
$15,000.
In April, 1877, Elliott filed a bill in a State court in Illinois
against Sackett, praying that the deed be reformed by striking
therefrom the words stating that Elliott assumed and agreed to
pay the $9,000 debt, as part of the consideration. The bill alleged that the consideration for the agreement of Sackett to
convey the Calumet avenue property to Elliott was the agreement of Elliott to convey to Sackett the other property named
in the written agreement; that one Hill, as agent of Sackett,
solicited Elliott to purchase the Calumet avenue property; that
during the negotiations, Hill and Sackett solicited Elliott to assume the payment of the incumbrance, but Elliott refused to
assume any liability on account' of it, and insisted that he would
simply purchase the property subject to the incumbrance, and
thereupon the written agreement was made; that the statement in the deed that Elliott assumed and agreed to pay the
incumbrance as a part of the consideration for the premises was
contrary to the mutual understanding between Hill and Sackett and Elliott, and contrary to the written agreement; that
Elliott, when he received the deed, was suffering under physical infirmities and mental distress, and did not examine the
deed as carefully as he should otherwise have done, but had the
deed recorded, believing that Sackett had acted in good faith
and had made the deed in conformity with the understanding
of the parties and the written agreement; and that Elliott had
recently discovered the mistake in the deed.
•,
In June, 1877, Dickey, the owner of the $9,000 note made by
Sackett and secured by the deed of trust, was, by an order of
the State court, on his petition, made a defendant in the suit
and allowed to file an answer and a cross-bill. His answer
controverted the material allegations of the bill. A few days
later, on the petition of Dickey, the suit was removed into the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Illinois, and Dickey filed a cross-bill in the latter court, making
as defendants Sackett and his wife, De Koven, the trustee,
Mattocks, his successor in the trust, Elliott, and Underwood,
the tenant of Elliott. The cross-bill alleged that the whole
amount secured by the note and the trust deed was due, and
that by the terms of the conveyance to Elliott he became liable
to pay the debt to Dickey, and prayed for a sale of the premises to pay the amount due, and a foreclosure of the equity of
redemption of the defendants, and the payment of the debt out
of the proceeds of sale, and a decree against Sackett and Elliott for any balance due beyond the proceeds of the sale.
Sackett answered the original bill. The answer admitted
that Sackett entered into an agreement in writing to convey
the premises "in a certain manner and on certain conditions,"
the exact words and terms of which he did not remember. It
admitted that Sackett, at the time of the negotiations with
Elliott for the sale of the premises, solicited Elliott to assume
and agree to pay the incumbrance of $9,000. It then proceeded:
"And this respondent denies that the said complainant refused
the said solicitations and request of this defendant, but this respondent avers and will, at the proper time and place, prove the
truth to be, that when the negotiations, conversations, and details
preliminary to the final completion of the transactions upon which
this suit was brought, were ended, and the parties were ready to
close the transaction by the delivery of the deeds, it was fully and
fairly understood by the parties to the same that a warranty deed
conveying the said premises, 166 Calumet avenue, should and
would be accepted by the said Elliott with the condition of conveyance therein provided, viz.: that the said Elliott did assume
and agree to pay, as a covenant of said deed, the before mentioned
nine thousand dollars, and interest semi-annually, and the warranty deed of this defendant contained that provision accordingly."
The answer also averred that Elliott carefully read over the
deed in the office of Hill, at the time of the delivery of the
papers in the transaction, in the presence of Sackett, "being
fully aware of and noting especially, as this defendant believes,

ELLIOTT v. SACKETT.
Statement of Facts.

from his best recollection, the said clause in said deed which
complainant now desires shall be expunged."
In March, 1878, Elliott answered the cross-bill, setting up
that the clause in the deed from Sackett and wife as to the
agreement by Elliott to pay the incumbrance was inserted. by
mistake or fraud on the part of Sackett or his agent, and repeating the averments of his original bill.
Replications were filed to the answer of Sackett to the original bill and to the answer of Elliott to the cross-bill, and the
cross-bill was taken as confessed as to the other defendants in
it, and the cause was referred to a master to take proofs and
report the same to the court, with the amount due to Dickey.
Proofs were taken and the causes were brought to a hearing
thereon. The court made a decree dismissing the original bill
for want of equity, and adjudging that all the material allegations in the cross-bill are proved; that the equities were with
Dickey; that there was due to him fTom Sackett $11,399.28,
with interest; and that Elliott,-for a valuable consideration,
assumed and agreed with Sackett to pay the amount due on
the mortgage to Dickey. The decree then provided that
Sackett and Elliott, or one of them, should pay to Dickey,
within one day from the date of the entry of the decree, the
amount so due to him, with interest and costs of suit, and that,
in case the payment was not made, the premises should be sold
by a master, and that he should report any deficiency in the
proceeds of sale to pay the amount due. The decree concluded
with providing that in case Sackett should pay such indebtedness, or any part thereof, he should have leave to apply to the
court, on notice to Elliott, for a further order, at the foot of
the decree, requiring Elliott to repay to Sackett the sum so
paid on said indebtedness. Elliott appealed to this court.
-.. William . fason for the appellant, cited Cochran v.
Ckitwood, 59 Ill. 53; Snell v. Insurance Co., 98 U. S. 85; In,
.urane Co. v. Wilkinson, 13 WalL 222; -Davi v. Symonds, 1
Cox, 402; Seymour v. -Delancey, 6 John. Oh. 222; .Miner v.
-ess, 4G 11f 1p0.
t
X r. Edward G. 21ason, for the appellees.-Il. It must appear

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Argument for the Appellees.

that a contract is different from the intention of both partiesto
justify a court of equity in reforming it. The deed complained
of is exactly in accordance with the intention of Sackett, one
of the parties to it. Story on Equity Jurisprudence, 11th edition, p. 144, § 138, K. note; Schettiger v. Ilopple, 3 Grant's
Cases, 54; NYevius v. Dunlap, 33 New York, 676; Cofing v.
Taylor, 16 Ill. 457; 1yfner v. 3oConnell, 17 Ill. 217; Sut herland v. Sutherland,69 Ill. 481; Snell v. Insurance Company,
98 U. S. 85.-I1. A court of equity will only reform a contract
,pon the clearest and most convincing _proof of mistake. No
such proof is found in this record. Story on Equity Jurisprudence, 11th edition, pp. 157, 161, §§ 152 and 157, and
cases cited; Schettiger v. ifopple, 3 Grant's Cases, 54; lVevius
v. Dunlap, 33 New York, 676; EBdmonds' 4ppeal, 59 Penn.
St. 220; Jufner v. 3fcC'onnell, 17 Ill. 217; Hunter v. Bilyeu,
30 Ill. 228; Sutherland v. Sutherland, 69 Ill. 481; I-inson v.
HVutton, 98 U. S. 79; Snell v. Insurance Co., 98 U. S. 85.III. The weight of the evidence shows that no mistake at all
was made in the deed from Sackett to Elliott. The evidence
of the deed is not overcome by that of the preliminary contract,
even if they differ. Story on Equity Jurisprudence, 11th edition, page 165, § 160, and cases cited. Sackett's testimony
as to what the agreement was, is practically uncontradicted,
and is confirmed by the other witnesses. Elliott's own conduct
shows that he regarded the contract as one of assumption.
3iller v. Thonmpson, 34 Mich. 10; Coolidge v. Smith, 129 Mass.
558 ; XJfuhrig v. Fisk, 131 M ass. 110. The proof in favor of
mistake is exceedingly weak. The deed properly expresses the
legal effect of the contract. A purchaser taking a deed "subject to" an incumbrance, the amount of which is deducted from
the purchase price, becomes personally liable for the same.
Comstock v. HUitt, 37 Ill. 542; James v. Day, 37 Iowa, 164;
-erbert v. Doussan, 8 La. Ann. 267; Fowler v. Fay, 62 Ill.
377; Waters v. Hubbard, 44 Conn. 340.-IV. If Elliott made
any mistake, it was one of law and not of fact, from which a
court of equity will not relieve him. Runt v. .Rousmanier'sAdministrators,1 Pet. 1; Bank of the United States v. Daniel,
12 Pet. 32; Sibert v. .cAvoy, 15 Ill. 106; Wood v. Price,

ELLIOTT v. SACKETT.
Opinion of the Court.
46 El. 435; Snell v. Insurance Conmpany, 98 U. S. 85.-V. Even
where the minds of the parties have never met, courts of equity
do not interfere where there was gross negligence on the part
of the plaintiff. Story on Equity Jurisprudence, 11th edition
143, § 138 i.; Graves v. Boston .3larine Ins. Co., 2 Cranch, 419 ;
Grymes v. Sanders, 93 T. S. 55 ; Snell v. Insurance Co., 98 U.
S. 85.-VI. Nor do courts of equity interfere where intervening rights have accrued, or where the parties cannot be placed
in statu quo ante. Story on Equity Jurisprudence, 11th edition,
p. 143 ; Grymes v. Sanders, 93 U. S. 55 ; New Orleans Canal
and Banking Company v. .Montgomery, 95 U. S. 16.

MR. JUSTICE BLATcHFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts as above, he said:
It is objected by the appellee Dickey, that there is nothing
in the record to show that the amount in controversy exceeds
$5,000 ; and that the decree, so far as Elliott is concerned, is
not a final one. Itis urged that the provision of the decree is,
that, if the amount specified is not paid to Dickey within one
day, the premises shall be sold, and, if the proceeds of sale are
insufficient, the master shall report the amount of the deficiency;
that this is not a deficiency decree against Elliott; that it does
not appear that it will .ever be necessary to enter a deficiency
decree against any one; that, on the decree, as it stands, no
execution can be issued against any one; that all the evidence
goes to show that the deficiency decree will not exceed $,000;
and that the decree is merely interlocutory as to Elliott, because,
until a sale is made, there can be no cause of complaint on the
part of Elliott. The answer to this objection is, that the decree
dismisses the original bill, and adjudges that Elliott agTeed with
Sackett, for a valuable and sufficient consideration, to pay the
amount due on the incumbrance. The amount involved in the
original suit is the entire amount of the incumbrance, which
Elliott is made by the deed to him to agree to pay, and the bill
seeks relief from liability for that amount, by striking out the
clause from the deed. The decree denies that relief. If that
relief was wrongly denied, all relief against Elliott under the

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

cross-bill necessarily falls, as the only liability from Elliott to
Dickey arises from that clause in the deed.
On the merits, we are of the opinion that Elliott is entitled
to the relief he asks by his original bill. The terms of the
written agreement between Sackett and Elliott are very clear,
and show that the parties were merely making an exchange of
land. Sackett agrees to convey to Elliott the Calumet avenue
property, subject to the $9,000 incumbrance, and to assign an
insurance policy, and to pay $50. Elliott agrees to convey to
Sackett three lots subject to a specific incumbrance, and two
other pieces of property clear of incumbrance. It is true, that
Elliott agrees to pay to Sackett $15,000, but the agreement
expressly states that that sum is to be paid "in the manner
following," which is by conveying the land described. The
land to be conveyed to Sackett is apparently valued by the
agreement, for the purposes of the transaction, at $15,000.
Nothing is said about deducting the $9,000 from the price of
the property to be conveyed to Elliott, nor is any sum named
as the purchase money of that property. An agreement merely
to take land, subject to a specified incumbrance, is not an
agreement to assume and pay the incumbrance. The grantee
of an equity of redemption, without words in the grant importing in some form that he assumes the payment of a mortgage,
does not bind himself personally to pay the debt. There must
be words importing that he will pay the debt, to make him
personally liable. The language of the agreement in the present case does not amount to such an undertaking on the part
of Elliott. It is only a statement that the conveyance is to be
subject to the incumbrance, and creates no personal liability in
the grantee. Such is the law in Illinois, where this land is
situated, Comstock v. Mitt, 37 Ill. 542; Fowler v. Fay, 62 id.
375, as well as the law in other States. Belmont v. C'oman,
22 N. Y. 438; Fiske v. Tolman, 124 Mass. 254.
Under the written agreement, therefore, it is plain that Elliott assumed no personal liability. Both parties executed this
agreement and are to be held to have understood it in that
sense. Sackett, in his answer, does not deny the allegation of
the original bill, that the agreement between the parties was

ELLIOTT v. SACKETT.
Opinion of the Court.

that neither Sackett nor Elliott should assume or agree to pay
outstanding incumbrances on the respective parcels of land, and
that that appears by the written agreement. But the answer,
while admitting that Sackett entered into an agreement in
writing to convey the premises in a certain manner and on certain conditions, and referring to such agreement for certainty,
sets up, that, after the written agreement was made, the parties
came to an understanding that Elliott would accept a deed
whereby he should assume and agree to pay the $9,000 incumbrance, and that the deed given "contained that provision
accordingly." There is no evidence to support this allegation.
Sackett testifies that he never, had any conversation with Elliott in regard to his assuming liability for the mortgage, but
that they met together and the deeds to each other were passed.
Sackett had employed Hill as his agent to dispose of the Calumet avenue property. Elliott testifies that Hill offered him
the property and wanted him to assume the incumbrance, but
he refused, and that finally Hill brought in the agreement
which was signed by both parties. Hill testifies to the same
effect. Elliott says that when Sackett gave him the deed in
Hill's office, he was unwell ; that he did not read that part of
the deed which states that he is to assume and pay the incumbrance, but only read the prior part which states that the
conveyance is made subject to the incumbrance; and that he
discovered the mistake in the deed a short time before he commenced this suit.
The actual contract of the parties, as understood by both of
them, is shown by the written agreement. Nothing was agreed
upon to vary that. Sackett, as he shows by his testimony,
knew the difference as to liability which the difference in the
language would make, and knew what the language of the written agreement was, and must be held to have understood it to
mean what it does mean, and to have known that Elliott understood it in the same sense. So, in the departure from it in
the deed, there was a mutual mistake, it not being shown, as set
up in the answer of Sackett, that there was an intention, fully
and fairly understood by both parties, that in the deed Elliott
should assume and agree to pay the incumbrance. Under all

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

the circumstances proved in this case and every case of the
kind must depend very largely on its special circumstances),
Elliott had a right to presume that the deed would conform to
the written agreement, and was not guilty of such negligence
or laches, in not observing the provisions of the deed, as should
preclude him from relief.
Neither Dickey nor the trustee was a party or a privy to the
transaction between Sackett and Elliott, nor was the trust deed
taken, or the debt created or extended, or anything else done
by Dickey or his trustee, in reliance on any assumption of the
debt by Elliott. As respects the trust deed, the parties to it
and to the debt it secured occupied the same position when this
suit was brought as when the deed to Elliott was delivered, no
new rights having been acquired in reliance on that deed, and
none which existed when it was delivered being sought to be
impaired by the relief asked by Elliott. Elliott does not seek
to. interfere with the property he conveyed to Sackett. No
circumstances exist on which laches can be predicated on the
part of Elliott as to seeking a remedy. The fact that Elliott
made two payments of the interest on the incumbrance is not
inconsistent with his not having assumed the payment of the
incumbrance. As owner of the property subject to the incumbrance, and desirous of retaining it so long as there was any
value in the equity of redemption, he would naturally pay the
interest to save a foreclosure.
The principles applicable to a case like the present are fully
set forth in the opinion of this court delivered by Mr. Justice
Harlan, in Snell v. Insurance Co., 9S U. S. 85, and the leading
authorities on the subject are there collected. Within those
principles this is a case where, in the preparation of the deed
to Elliott, there was, by mutual mistake, a failure to embody
in the deed the actual agreement of the parties as evidenced by
the prior written agreement. The meaning of that prior agreement is clear, and nothing occurred between the parties, after
it was signed and delivered, to vary its terms, except the mere
fact of the delivery of the deed, tho terms of which are complained of and sought to be reformed. The deed did not effect
what both the parties intended by the actual contract which

EWELL v. DAGGS.
Statement of Facts.

they made, and the case is one for the interposition of a court
of equity.
17w decree of the circuit court is reversed, with costs, so far as
it dismisses the original bill, and so far as it adjudges that
-Dickey has any equities as against Elliott, and sofar as it
adjudges that Elliott assumed andagreed to pay the amount
due on the mortgage to -Dickey,and so far as it adjudges
that Elliott shall pay to Dickey the amountfound due to
him and the costs of the suit, and so far as it provides for
an application by Sackett for an order that Elliott repay
to him any sum which he may pay on the debt due to-Dickey;
and the cause is remanded to the circuit court, with directions to enter a decree in the original suit granting the
prayer of the bill with costs, and for such further proceedings in the original and cross-suitsas may not be inconsistent with this opinion.

EWELL 'V. DAGGS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT coURt OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TH
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Decided March 26th, 1883.

Interest-Limiation--fortgages-Usury.
1. If an action on the debt secured bya mortgage of real estate in the State of
Texas is not barred by the statute of limitations, a suit on the mortgage
itself is not barred, and this, whether the owner of the equity or a third
person be the mortgage debtor.
2. A contract of a kind which a statute in Texas makes "void" for usury, is
voidable only ; and a repeal of the statute declaring such contracts void
deprives the debtor of the statutory defence.
3. When the amount of the face of a note represents a principal sum and interest thereon at a rate higher than the legal rate, and nothing is said in the
note itself about interest, the note after maturity will bear interest at the
legal rate.

On May 27th, 1856, James B. Ewell and his wife, having
the legal title in fee to the premises, made and delivered to

