OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Syllabus.

are abolished," and "any instrument within the scope of his
authority, by which an agent intends to bind his principal,
does bind him, if such intent is plainly inferable from the instrument itself." Civil Code of Dakota of 1877, §§ 925, 1373.
By the subject-matter of this contract, which is the delivery
and milling of ore from the Keets Mine; by the description of
Whitney, both in the body of the contract and in the signature,
as superintendent of the Keets Mining Company; and by the
use of the words "parties of the first part," which are applicable to a company and not to a single individual-the contract
made by the hand of Whitney clearly appears upon its face to
have been intended to bind, and therefore did bind, the company ; and, upon proof that Post was a partner in the company,
bound him. Whitney v. Wyman, 101 U. S. 392; Hitchwock v.
Buchanan, 105 IT. S. 416; Goodenough v. Thayer, 132 Mass.
152.
The order sustaining Post's demurrer to the original complaint gave the plaintiff leave to amend, and did not preclude
the plaintiff from renewing, nor the court from entertaining,
the same question of law upon a fuller development of the facts
at the trial on the amended complaint. Calder v. HUaynes, 7
Allen, 387.
Judgment a~fflrmd.

HAWKINS & Another, Assignees, & Others v. BLAKE &
Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

THE EASTERN DISTRICT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

OF NORTH CAROLINA.

Decided May ?th, 1883.

Assignees in Ban ruptcy-Equity-Mandate--Paries--Practice.
On appeal from the decree of the court below executing the mandate of the
court on the judgment entered in Blake v. Hawkins, 98 U. S. 315: Held,
1. That it was no error in the execution of the mandate to permit a new party
to become party and set up rights under the decree, when it appears by

the record that all parties consented.

HAWKINS v. BLAKE.
Opinion of the Court.
2. That there was no error in charging the amount found due to the appellees
as next of kin, upon the real estate conveyed to Devereux by his mother,
and in the hands of his assignees in bankruptcy; and the assignees took
the estate charged with the specific equity to which it was subject in the
bankrupt's hands, and must hold and apply it to the purposes to which
in equity it is devoted.

Appeal from the decree entered in the court below on the
mandate of this court sent down with the judgment and
opinion in Blake v. Hwkins, 98 U. S. 315.
Xr. Augustus S. -Yer-imon and X3r. Thomas C. _Fuller, for
appellants.
.Xr. Solicitor-General and Xr. Joh l. Hinsdale for appellees.
MR. JusTicE N&Trmws delivered the opinion of the court.

A former appeal in this cause was disposed of by this court
by a decision reported in Blake v. Hawkins, 98 U. S. 315, t6
which reference is made for a full statement of the case as then
presented. The final decree of the circuit court, there reviewed,
was reversed, and the cause was remanded with directions to
take further proceedings and enter a decree in accordance with
the opinion of the court as then declared.
The subsequent proceedings and decree, upon the mandate of
this court, axe now brought here for review, on the ground that
they do not, in several particulars, conform to that mandate.
A brief statement of the case will suffice to explain and adjust
the remaining controversy.
The complainants below were the appellants from the first
decree, and are now appellees. They are of the next of kin of
Frances Devereux, entitled to a share of the residue of her
personal estate undisposed of by her will. The object of the
bill was to obtain an account of that estate from Thomas P.
Devereux, as executor de son tort, including a fund, being part
of a sum of $50,000 originally charged upon real estate conveyed to Thomas P. Devereux by Frances Devereux, in case
she should appoint the same by will or otherwise, and which,
it was claimed by the complainants, she had appointed by her
will to her executors. The estate of Thomas P. Devereux

OCTOBER TERMI, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

passed, by his bankruptcy, to assignees and trustees, including
the lands on which the fund in question, alleged to have been
the subject of the appointment, had been charged. These
assignees and trustees were defendants below, and are now
appellants.
The charge upon the lands conveyed to Thomas P. Devereux
included an annuity, during the life of Frances Devereux, payable to herself, of $3,000, being six per cent. on the principal
sum, and as to the principal sum the language of the deed was:
"That the said Thomas P. Devereux, his heirs or assigns, shall
invest for, or pay to, the said Frances, at such times, in such proportions, and in such manner and form as she shall direct and require, to and for her own sole and separate use, and subject to
her own disposal by will, deed, or -writings in nature thereof, or
otherwise, to all intents and purposes (notwithstanding her
coverture) as if she were a ferne sole and unmarried, the sum of
$50,000 ; but if the said sum of money, or any part thereof, shall
remain unpaid, or shall not be invested during her life, and if the
said Frances shall not by deed or will or writing in nature thereof,
or by some other act, give, grant, dispose, or direct any payment,
investment, or application of the same, then the said sum of money,
or so much thereof as shall remain not paid, given, granted, disposed, or directed to be invested, paid, or applied, shall be considered as lapsing and the charge thereof as extinguished for the
benefit of the said Thomas."
In her will, among other bequests, was one of $7,500 to
Thomas P. Devereux, in trust, to apply the income on the same
annually to the payment of certain annuities and charities
therein specified. There was no residuary clause.
Thomas P. Devereux, though named as executor in his
mother's will, did not qualify as such; but, after her death,
paid off the legacies mentioned and took possession of a large
part of her personal estate, so as to become chargeable therefor
as executor de son tort.
The estate of Frances Devereux is represented by an administrator de bonis non with the will annexed.

• HAWKIS v. BLAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

The decree of the circuit court in 1874, which was the subject of the former appeal, declared among other things:
1. That Frances Devereux did not by her last will appoint
the fund of $50,000, charged upon the land, "to be part of her
general personal estate in the hands of her executors; nor
appoint the said fund at all, except so far as it is necessary to
resort to the same to pay off the pecuniary legacies bequeathed
by her in her said will, after exhausting for that purpose what
remains of her personal assets, after payment of her debts and
general7 expenses and the cost of administering her estate."
2. That the complainants were not entitled to any account
of the fund of $50,000, except for the purpose of determining
the amount in arrears of the annuity of $3,000 during the lifetime of Thomas Devereux, unexpended, of which unexpended
balance, and of the remainder of her personal estate which came
to the hands of Thomas P. Devereux, they are entitled to an
account.
3. That in taking that account, the, assignees in bankruptcy
are entitled to be credited with the amounts -which Thomas P.
Devereux expended in purchasing the pecuniary legacies bequeathed by Frances Devereux.
A statement of that aqcount was agreed upon, which showed
.that, at the date of his bankruptcy, May 31st, 1868, Thomas
P. Devereux was chargeable with $41,633 of the general personal assets of his mother's estate, after payment of debts,
funeral expenses, and costs of administration, including interest
to that date; and that he was entitled to credit for $39,466.58,
which included interest to the same date, for the amount expended by him in payment or purchase of the pecuniary legacies under the will, leaving a balance due from him of $2,166.42,
of which the complainants were entitled to one-third, or
$722.14, for which accordingly, a decree was entered in their
favor.
In reversing this decree, this court said, 98 U. S. 328:
"Whether, if the fund which remained in the hands of Thomas
P. Devereux at the death of the testatrix had exceeded the sum
required to pay the legacies given by her will-that is to say, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

sum of $28,500-the will would have been a complete execution
of the power, covering the whole fund, or only a partial appointment of so much as was needed to pay those legacies, it is unnecessary for us now to decide. In the view which we take of
the other questions involved in the case, that fund had been reduced so far that there was not more than enough remaining
subject to the power to pay the sums bequeathed by the will.
The execution was therefore complete, and it appointed the whole
fund to the executors of this will, who took it under the appointment as part of the personal estate of the appointor."
There was, therefore, error in the decree of the circuit court,
so far as it adjudged that the testatrix, Frances Devereux, did
not appoint to her executors the fund over which she had the
power of appointment, "except so far as it is necessary to resort to the same to pay off the pecuniary legacies bequeathed
by her in her said will, after exhausting for that purpose what
remains of her general assets after payment of her debts and
funeral expenses and the costs of administering her estate."
After noticing and disposing of other assignments of error,
not material now to be repeated, the judgment of the court
concludes as follows:
"Our conclusion, therefore, is, after reviewing the whole case,
that there has been no error committed, except the single one
which we first noticed. For that, however, the decree of the circuit court must be reversed, and the case sent back with instructions to direct a new accounting, and to enter a decree in conformity with this opinion."
The mandate of this court was entered of record in the circuit court at the June term, 1879; and thereupon Louisa N.
Taylor filed her petition praying to be made a party, for the
purpose of asserting her right to receive the value of two annuities to which she claimed to be entitled, one of $50 per annum out of the fund of 87,500 bequeathed to Thomas 1P.
Devereux in trust for herself and others; and one of $150 per
annum, which by the will of Frances Devereux, was directed
to be paid out of funds arising from the sale of certain slaves

HAWKINS v. BLAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

and a house and lot in Chapel Hill, it being alleged in her petition that Thomas P. Devereux had sold the house and lot,
received the proceeds, and converted the slaves to his own
use.
Service of this petition was accepted, and it was agreed that
it might be heard at the same term, if practicable. The
assignees in bankruptcy filed their answer to it, pleading the
statute of limitations, alleging that the fund of $7,500 had been
raised, and that the lands of Thomas P. Devereux were discharged from its payment, denying that the $150 annuity was
a charge on those lands, but upon the house and lot in Chapel
Hill, which sold for only $45, and the slaves, which it is alleged
were not sold by Thomas P. Devereux, but lost by the result
of the war, &c.
It was thereupon agreed by the parties to waive the taking
of the account ordered by the mandate of this court, and
that "1
the balance charged on the land of Thomas P. Devereux,
and which Mrs. Frances Devereux had not disposed of during
her life, and which by her will she appointed to her executors,
was on the third (3d) of June, 1849, the date of her death, the
sum of ($21,527.67) twenty-one thousand five hundred and
twenty-seven dollars and sixty-seven cents."
The facts in regard to the legacy of $1,500 to Thomas P.
Devereux in trust, and the interest therein of Louisa N. Taylor, were also agreed upon.
It was further agreed that a certain account D, theretofore
taken, of the general personal assets of Frances Devereux, filed
at June term, 1874, was correct, except that the assignees in
bankruptcy insisted on an exception, to the extent that Thomas
P. Devereux is chargeable only with one-half the value of the
slaves, being $9,995.50, with interest thereon to the amount
of $9,823.57, instead of with the full amount charged;
while the complainants insisted that the correctness of that
account had been finally agreed to and settled at the June
term, 1874, but that otherwise the account was in all respects
correct.
At the November term, 1879, the final decree was made,
from which the present appeal is taken. The first seven of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

declarations in that decree specifically follow the mandate of
this court, and the agreement of the parties as to the state of
the accounts, overruling the exception of the assignees in bankruptcy t3.the account D, which charged Thomas P. Devereux
with the value of all the slaves which came to his hands after
the death of Mrs. Devereux; and in this, we think, there is no
error.
The decree then proceeds as follows:
"8. It is further declared that the said Thomas P. Devereux
never raised and appropriated the $7,500.00 appointed to him in
trust by the will of the said Frances out of his lands, conveyed to
him by the aforesaid deed of July 3d, 1839, and that all the annuitants provided for by said appointment of $7,500.00 are dead or
have abandoned their claims, except Louisa N. Taylor, who is
still living ; and that none of said annuities have been paid since
the first day of January, 1863, except the annuity to the said
Louisa N. Taylor, which was paid by said Thomas P. Devereux
up to the 1st day of January, 1867 ; and the court doth declare
that there is a resulting trust for one-third of said sum of
$7,500.00, and interest thereon from the 1st day of January, 1863,
to the plaintiffs, subject, however, to the said Louisa N. Taylor's
claim for the value of her annuity of $50.00 per annum, one-third
of which value falls upon the plaintiff's share of said resulting
trust; which said claims of the said Louisa N. and the said plaintiffs are first liens upon the lands of the said Thomas P. Devereux
or the proceeds thereof in the hands of the defendants, in the
relative order in which said claims are last herein stated, and are
to be first paid in full by the defendants with and out of the proceeds of said lands.
"9. It is further declared that the said Thomas P. Devereux,
before November, 1852, purchased up all the other pecuniary legacies bequeathed by the will of the said Frances, and after said
purchase, and before the day and date last aforesaid, converted to
his own use all the general personal assets of the said Frances specified in section 7 of this decree as amounting, on the 31st day of
May, 1868, to forty-one thousand six hundred and thirty-three
dollars ($41,633.00), claiming the same to belong to him to satisfy
the said pecuniary legacies and the aforementioned sum of
$7,500.00 ; and the court doth declare that the annuity of $150.00

HAWKINS v. BLAKE.
Opinion of the Court.
per annum bequeathed by the will of the said Frances to the said
Louisa N. Taylor was and is a first lien on said sum of $41,633.00
of general assets, and ought to have been first paid thereout, and
that the plaintiffs ought to have been paid one-third of said sum
of general assets, subject to the burden of one-third of the annuity
of $150.00 per annum to the said Louisa N. Taylor; and that the
said pecuniary legacies purchased by the said Thomas P. Devereux as aforesaid, and the aforesaid sum of $7,500.00, ought to
have been paid out of the fund charged and appointed by the last
will and testament of the said Frances Devereux on and out of the
lands of the said Thomas P. Devereux, and the money to satisfy
the same ought to have been raised on and out of said lands, and
that said lands were exonerated from said burden by the use by
the said Thomas P. Devereux, of the general personal assets
aforesaid, whereby the plaintiffs have become entitled to have
their aforesaid one-third o'f said general personal assets, burdened
as aforesaid, paid out of the proceeds of said lands in the hands of
the defendants, and the said Louisa N. Taylor has become entitled
to have the value of her aforesaid annuity of $150.00 per annum
paid to her out of the said proceeds of the said lands, and in p'eference to the said claim of the plaintiffs ; and it is declared by the
court here that the last aforesaid claim of the said Louisa N. Taylor is a third lien upon the said proceeds of lands in the hands of
the defendants, and the last aforesaid claim of the plaintiffs is a
fourth lien on the same, and that both of said claims are to be
paid by the defendants out of said proceeds in the relative order
in which the same are next hereinbefore stated in full, if the said
proceeds shall be sufficient to pay both of the same in full, and if
not sufficient then the claim of the said Louisa N. is to be paid in
full, and the claim of the plaintiffs shall be paid as far as said
proceeds shall extend to satisfy the same.
"10. All the parties, plaintiff and defendant, having at June
term, A. D. 1879, of this court filed an agreement in writing waiving any further account, and ascertaining the balance charged on
the lands of Thomas P. Devereux for the benefit of Frances
Devereux at the date of her decease, in the words and figures
following, to wit :
" 'In this cause the mandate from the Supreme Court of the
IT. S. is filed, and to avoid the expense and delay incident to
taxing the account ordered and directed herein by the decision

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.
and decree of said court, and because from the accounts already
heretofore taken in this cause the parties are able to ascertain by
agreement all the results necessary for the final determination of
this cause, without the new accounting directed by said decree of
supreme court, by consent of all the parties, plaintiff and defendant, herein, all further account herein is waived, and it is agreed
that the balance charged on the land of Thomas P. Devereux,
and which Mrs. F. Devereux had not disposed of during her life,
and which, by her will, she appointed to her executors, was on
the 3d day of June, 1849, the date of her death, the sum of
twenty-one thousand five hundred and twenty-seven dollars and
sixty-seven cents (821,527.67).'
"11. And the said Louisa N. Taylor having, at June term,
1879, of this court filed a petition to be made a party to this cause
and to assert her rights in the premises, and having at said term,
by the consent of all the parties, plaintiff and defendant herein,
beer, made a party hereto, and it appearing to the court that said
Louisa N. Taylor, on the 26th of March, 1869, before the register
in bankruptcy proved and filed her claim on account of the legacy
hereinbefore named against the estate of said bankrupt, Thomas
P. Devereux, as a debt secured by lien on the lands of the said
Thomas P. Devereux, to the amount of $2,926.12, with interest,
and the plaintiffs having here in open court assented to the payment of said claim in the manner specified and directed in this
decree, the court doth declare that there is now due to the said
Louisa N. Taylor upon the $50.00 annuity, the sum of $1,196.45,
with interest on $726.53, from Nov. 24th, 1879, and upon the
$150.00 annuity, the sum of $3,413.40, with interest on $2,179.59,
from Nov. 24, 1879, charged as hereinbefore declared.
"And thereupon, it being obvious to the court that a new
reference and further account in the premises is entirely useless
and unnecessary, it is finally ordered, adjudged, and decreed that
the said Louisa N. Taylor recover of the defendants, William J.
Hawkins and Walter Clark, assignees in bankruptcy of the estate
and effects of Thomas P. Devereux, deceased, a bankrupt, and of
the said Walter Clark and the defendant, Jno. Devereux, substituted trustees for Thomas P. Devereux, deceased, under the deed
for the Pollock land, of July 3d, 1839, the sum of (81,196.45)
eleven hundred and ninety-six dollars and forty-five cents, with
interest on $726.53 thereof, from 24th November, 1879, until paid,

HAWKINS v. BLAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

to be paid and satisfied out of the proceeds of the sales of the said
Pollock lands, in their hands, respectively, first, and in preference
to all other claims against said proceeds; and that the
plaintiffs, Grinfill Blake and Elizabeth J., his wife, and Jno.
Townsend and Georgiana P., his wife, do recover of the said defendants, Hawkins, Clark, and Devereux, assignees and trustees as
aforesaid, the sum of ($4,569.73) forty-five hundred and sixty-nine
dollars and seventy-three cents, with interest on $2,468.34 thereof
from the 24th November, 1879, until paid, to be paid out of said
proceeds of said sales of said Pollock lands in their hands, respectively, and next in order of preference.
"And that the said Louisa N. Taylor do recover of the said
defendants, Hawkins, Clark, and Devereux, assignees and trustees
as aforesaid, the sum of ($3,413.40) three thousand four hundred
and thirteen dollars and forty cents, with interest on ($2,179.59)
twenty-one hundred and seventy-nine dollars and fifty-nine cents
thereof from the 24th November, 1879, until paid, to be paid and
satisfied out of said proceeds of said sales of said Pollock lands in
their hands, respectively, and next in order of preference.
"And that the plaintiffs, Grinfill Blake and Elizabeth J., his
wife, and Jno. Townsend and Georgiana P., his wife, do recover
of the said defendants, Hawkins, Clark, and Devereux, trustees
and assignees as aforesaid, ($21,200.46) twenty-one thousand two
hundred dollars and forty-six cents, with interest on $13,877.66
thereof from the 24th day of November, 1879, until paid, to be
paid and satisfied out of the said proceeds of the said sales of the
said Pollock lands in their hands, Tespectively, and in the event
that said proceeds shall prove sufficient to pay and satisfy said
last-mentioned sum in full, and if said proceeds shall not prove sufficient, then as far as said proceeds shall extend to satisfy the same.
"That the costs in this cause incurred, to be taxed by the clerk,
be paid by the said defendants, assignees and trustees as aforesaid, with and out of said proceeds of said sales of said Pollock
lands in full and without reference to the satisfaction of the four
foregoing sums adjudged to be paid out of such proceeds."
It is now objected to this decree that it is not warranted by
the mandate of this court, in execution of which only it could be
properly made; and that if the matters decreed were open
under the mandate, they were adjudged erroneously.

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court

It is said, in the first place, that it was error to permit
Louisa N. Taylor to become a party and set up rights not
embraced in the former decree. The obvious answer to this
objection is, that it was done by consent of all parties, as appears by the record. And there is no ground on which the
decree in her favor can be impugned. Her annuity of $50 per
annum was expressly payable out of the legacy to Thomas P.
Devereux in trust, in respect to which his assignee cannot be
heard to say that his land has been relieved of the charge by
which the fund was to be raised, when, in point of fact, the
fu'id never has been raised. As to the annuity of $150,
although payable out of a fund expressly designated, it was a
demonstrative legacy, payable, in default of that fund, out of
general assets, and entitled, therefore, to the benefit of the
fund of $50,000, converted by the appointment into general
personal estate, and, as part of that, chargeable on the land as
hereafter shown. 2 Williams on Executors, Pt. 3, Book 3, ch.
2, § 3, p. 1160, 6th Am. ed. 1252.
It is next objected that the circuit court below erred in charging the amount found due to the appellees, as next of kin, entitled to share the undisposed residue of the estate of Frances
Devereux, from the estate of Thomas P. Devereux, upon his
real estate conveyed to him by his mother. It is claimed that
this part of the decree is not justified by the mandate, and is
erroneous on principle.
But this view, in our opinion, cannot be sustained. The very
point of our former decision was, that the appellees were entitled to an account of the fund of $50,000, or so much of it as
remained, as part of the personal estate of Mrs. Frances
Devereux, by virtue of her will, construed as an appointment.
The language of the opinion was, 98 U. S. 328:
"We conclude, therefore, that Mrs. Devereux's will was an
execution of the power and an appointment of the fund to her
executors. It converted the fund into her own estate, at least to
the extent of $28,500, if there was so much of it remaining."

It is conceded that the proper amount of this fund, according

IAW-KINS v. BLAKE.
Opinion of tho Court.

to the agreement of the parties, has been brought into account,
and that the balance decreed in favor of the appellees is tle
true amount due to them from the estate of Thomas P.
Devereux. This is so, because the personal estate of Mrs.
Frances Devereux has been increased, in the account, by the
addition of the balance of this fund, according to the mandate
of this court.
But that fund is still uncollected and is a lien on the lands of
Thomas P. Devereux in the hands of his assignees and trustees.
Why should not security go with the debt? The debt is the
principal and the security an incident, which necessarily attends
it. It certainly was not the intention of this court, in its
former order, to separate them. And when it reversed the
decree of the circuit court in order to award to the appellees
the benefit of the fund appointed by the will of Mrs. Devereux
to become part of her personal estate, it meant also to give
them the benefit of any security for its collection and payment
that appointment furnished.
And that such security existed, by way of lien and charge
upon the land, in virtue of the appointment, and inures to the
benefit of the appellees, as entitled to share in the general personal estate of the testatrix, is necessarily involved in the
former judgment of this court. For that judgment did not
proceed, as seems to be claimed, on the ground that the appointment of that fund by the will was merely to the legatees, or
to the use of the legatees under the will, so that when their
legacies were satisfied, no matter by what means, the land was
discharged of its lien. On the contrary, that judgment proceeded on the ground that the will was an appointment of
what remained of the fund of $50,000 as a charge upon the
land, to the executor of the testatrix, so as to convert that fund
into part of the general personal estate of the testatrix, thereby
subjecting it, as part of that estate, to the claims of all persons
entitled to share in its distribution, it being the intention of the
testatrix, as expressly deduced by this court from the provisions
of the will, to provide a fund in the hands of her executors,
in addition to the personal estate in possession, adequate to
redeem the legacies given by the will, so as to exonerate that
vOL. cvm-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

estate from their payment. That fund was not a trust merely
in aid of the general assets, to enable the latter to meet the
payment of the legacies. That was the error of the circuit
court in its first decree, for which it was reversed. It was, on
the other hand, as declared by this court, "an appointment of
the whole fund to the executors of the will, who took it under
the appointment as part of the personal estate." And that
means, just what the decree now under review declares, that it
is appointed to be raised by a sale of the land on which it is
charged, to be paid into the estate of the testatrix, for the
purpose of being distributed to the appellees, as being the
parties entitled.
Not only was this fund charged upon the real estate of
Thomas P. Devereux appointed to his executors, so as to become part of the general personal estate of Mrs. Frances Devereux, so that in law the whole, including the undisposed-of
residue, became liable to distribution as one trust fund for
creditors, legatees, and distributees, in the order of legal
priority, but that order of priority was changed by the will as
declared by this court, so as to make the fund charged on the
land and appointed by the will the primary fund for the payment of the legacies, so as to authorize those entitled to the
general personal estate, as in this case, the next of kin entitled
to the undisposed-of residue, to require that, for the purpose of
paying the legacies, the specific fund charged on the land and
appointed by the will should be first exhausted before resorting
to the general assets of the testatrix. This court expressly so
declared in its judgment on the former appeal. It said, 98 U.
S. 327:
"Turning now to the will we have before us, two things are
evident. The first is that the testatrix did not intend that the
pecuniary legacies given for charitable purposes and to pay annuities should be satisfied out of her own personal property."
After specifying the disposition made of her personal estate
in possession, the opinion proceeds:
"Thus it appears that while she gave pecuniary legacies

HAWKINS v. BLAKE.

•435

Opinion of the Court.

amounting in the aggregate to more than $28,500, she carefully
withdrew from any positive application to their payment the personal estate she owned in her own right."
Notwithstanding this, Thomas P. Devereux, acting, though
wrongfully, as executor of this will, and chargeable as such,
appropriates the general personal estate to his own use, to reimburse himself the*amount which he had expended in paying or purchasing the legacies; and thus charges them upon
the general assets, in violation of the intention of the will and
the rights of the parties who by law were entitled to share in
that estate. Why are not the next of kin now entitled to stand
in the place of those legatees, in respect to the fund out of
which they should have been paid ? Upon the familiar principle of marshalling assets by means of subrogation, when a
party, having a right to resort to two funds, to the detriment
of another, entitled to be paid out of but one, has been satisfied out of the latter, the fund thus exonerated will in equity
be subjected to the payment of the postponed claim. This is
such a case. For it is immaterial that Thomas P. Devereux
did not use the specific property received by him out of the
estate of Frances Devereux for the purpose of paying or purchasing the legacies entitled to payment out of the fund charged
on his land, because he had received credit, with the assent of
the parties and by the decree of the court, in his account of the
general assets of that estate, for the amount paid by him on
account of the legacies. Hlow can he say, after that, that his
real estate has been discharged of the lien by his payment of
the legacies ? The deficiency in the general personal estate
thus created by him for the purpose of exonerating his land, is,
in equity, something more than a personal claim against him.
It is entitled to be supplied out of the securities that attended
the claims which it was created to satisfy, and these securities
are in equity considered as subsisting for that purpose. As
against Thomas P. Devereux himself, if he were in being and
in his own right defending against this claim of the appellees,
the case would be too clear for argument. What greater rights
have his assignees in bankruptcy, representing his general

OCTOBER TERMT, 1882.

-36,

Syllabus.

creditors? They have come into possession of this real estate,
but only with the title by which he held it, subject to the
specific equity now asserted against it; and in their hands, as
trustees, it must be held and applied to subserve the purposes
to which in equity it is devoted. Those purposes, in our
opinion, are correctly set forth in the decree of the circuit
court; and
It is accordingly affirnwd.

CLARK, General Treasurer of Rhode Island, v. BARNARD
& Others, Assignees.
A- EAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

Bond-Constitutional Law- Corporations--Damages-Franchises--Penlty.
1. The B. H. & E. Railroad, a corporation created by the State of Cbnnecticut,
purchased the franchises and railroad of the H. P. & F. Railroad, a corporation created under the laws of Rhode Island and Connecticut. The
legislature of Rhode Island ratified the sale, and authorized the B. H. &
E. Company to exercise the rights, privileges, and powers of the H. P.
& F. Company: Held, That the B. H. & E. Company thereby became
the legal successor of the H. P. & F. Company in Rhode Island ; and, in
respect to its railroad in Rhode Island, a corporation of that State.
2. The State of Rhode Island authorized by an act of its legislature the B.
H. & E. Company to extend within the limits of the State the road thus
acquired. The act further contained the following proviso: "This act
shall not go into effect unless the said B. H. & E. Company shall, within
ninety days from the rising of this general assembly, deposit in the
office of the general treasurer their bond, with sureties satisfactory to
the governor of this State, in the sum of $100,000, that they will coinplete their said road before the first day of January, A. D.1872." Within
the time named the requisite bond was filed in the sum of $100,000 conditioned as follows: "Now, therefore, if said B. H. & E. Company shall
complete their said railroad before the first day of January, A. D. 1872,
then the aforewritten obligation shall be void; otherwise be and remain
in full force and effect;" and as the requisite security for the payment of
thebond, a loan certificate of the city of Boston for $100,000 was deposited
with the State treasurer. The B. H. & E. Company became bankrupt.

