OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Argument for Appellants.

THE TORNADO.
ELLIS

& Others

v. ATLANTIC MUTUAL
ANCE COMPANY.

INSUR-

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Decided April 80th, IM58.

Affreightment-Contract-Freight-TotalLoss.
Where a vessel, before she breaks ground for a voyage, is so injured by fire
that the cost of her repairs would exceed her value when repaired, and she
is rendered unseaworthy and incapable of earning freight, a contract of
affreightment for the carriage of cotton by her to a foreign port, evidenced
by a bill of lading, containing the usual and customary exceptions, and
providing for the payment of the freight money on the delivery of the cotton at that port, is thereby dissolved, so that the shipper is not liable for
any part of the freight money, nor for any of the expenses paid by the
vessel for compressing and stowing the cotton.

In admiralty. Libel for freight. The facts appear in the
opinion of the court.

.M-'. Thomas J Semmes and .r. -ichard -De Gray for the
appellants cited The Soblomsten, L. R. 1 Adm. and Eccl. 293;
The Cito, 7 L. R. Probate Div. 5; Cargo ex Galam, ]3r. &
Lush. 167; Aitchison v. Lohre, 4 App. Cases, 755; The Kathleen, L. R. 4 A. & E. 269; Jones v. Holm, L. R. 2 Exchq. 335;
Tindall v. Taylor, 4 Ellis & B. 219 ; 1 Parsons Maritime Law,
158-9; Clark v. Insurance Company, 2 Pick. 104; Palmer v.
-Lorillard,16 Johns. 348; Campbell v. Conner, TO N. Y. 424;
Bulkley v. Cotton Company, 24 How. 386; Jordan v. Warren
Insurance Company, 1 Story, 342; HYubbell v. Great 1Western
Insurance Company, 74 N. Y. 246; Smpton v. Thornton, 9
Ad. & E. 314; Hugg v. Banking Company, 7 How. 595;
Hickie v. Rodocanachi, 4 Hurls. & N. 455.
MIr. P. Phillips, Xr. J -cConnell, and Xr. IF. Hallett
Phillipsfor appellees.

THE TORNADO.
Opinion of the Court.

delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a libel in admiralty against cargo of the ship
Tornado, brought by the master and owners of that vessel, to
recover freight money. The 'district court and, on appeal, the
circuit court, dismissed the libel. The libellants have appealed
to this court. The material facts found by the circuit court
are these: On the 24th of February, 1878, the ship, while
moored at the wharf in New Orleans, and bound on a voyage
to Liverpool, England, and before she had broken ground for
said voyage, was discovered to be on fire in her hold. Her
master had given bills of lading for the transportation from
New Orleans to Liverpool, with the exceptions usual in bills of
lading, of 5,195 bales of cotton, of which 5,008 had been put
on board, 164: were on the levee, and 23 had not reached the
levee. Water was pumped into the ship to extinguish the fire,
and, on the 26th, near six o'clock P. iNr.,being filled with water,
she sank to the bottom of the river alongside of the wharf, a
part of her bulwarks remaining above water. While so resting upon the bottom of the river, the ship, cargo and freight
were, on the 27th, libelled in the district court, for salvage, by
the New Harbor Protection Company, and about two o'clock
P. m of that day the marshal, by virtue of a warrant of seizure
issued by said court on said libel, took possession of the ship
and cargo. On the 28th, about noon, the ship was pumped
out and raised alongside the wharf, and the discharge of the
cargo on board was commenced, all of it being damaged by
water, and some of it by fire, 336 bales having been removed
by the salvors in an undamaged condition before the ship sank
but after the fire was discovered; but salvage was claimed and
allowed on the entire cargo. On the same day, the proctor
for the salvors filed in the district court a motion in writing,
suggesting that the whole cargo then being discharged from
the ship was greatly damaged by water and some of it by fire
and water, and would in all probability have ultimately to be*
sold, being in an unfit condition to be sent to its destination,
and an order of the court was thereupon made directing a sale
of the cargo by the marshal upon the levee as it came out of
the ship, on two days' advertisement, in such lots as might
Mn. JUSTICE BLToHFOnD

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

accumulate from day to day. On the same day an application
was made to the court by the master of the ship, in which he
represented that he was desirous and entitled to bond the ship
and cargo, and asked for a rule upon the libellant to show
cause on the next day, March 1st, why the order to sell the
cargo should not be rescinded, and the master be allowed to
bond the cargo. On March 1st the rule came on for hearing.
The proctor for the salvors, and counsel representing the insurers of the cargo, appeared and resisted the rescinding of the
order of sale, and counsel appeared for the master, who filed a
formal claim to the ship and cargo. On the trial of the rule
witnesses were examined orally before the judge, among them
various representatives of the underwriters on the cargo, who
were called as witnesses by the proctor for the salvors, and who
testified that if their interest were to be consulted they preferred
that the cotton should be sold by the marshal as it came out of the
ship, and that the master should not be permitted to bond the
cotton. The counsel for the insurers of the cargo then asked
leave to be heard on their behalf. To this the counsel for the
master and claimant objected, and insisted that counsel for the
underwriters on the cargo could not be heard until after the
proof of abandonment to them by the owners of the cargo and
acceptance of the abandonment. Thereupon Mr. Palfrey,
president of the Factors' and Traders' Insurance Company of
New Orleans, which was one of the companies represented by
said counsel, and one of the witnesses who had been called to
the stand as above stated, was recalled by said counsel and
testified that so far as his company was concerned the loss on
the cargo had been paid or ordered to be paid, and said company had become the owner of the cotton insured by it, and
abandonment thereof had been made and accepted by his company. After this said counsel was allowed to and did make an
oral argument in behalf of the underwriters, in opposition to
the motion to rescind the order to sell which had been obtained
by the salvors, but no pleadings were filed in behalf of the
underwriters. Upon the trial of the rule evidence was also
taken, by order of the court, in relation to the condition of the
cargo, and whether the same was or was not a total loss. On

THE TORNADO.
Opinion of the Court.

March 5th, and before the district court had made any decision
or order on the rule to rescind the order for the sale of the
cotton, a proctor representing underwriters at Lloyds, by
leave of the court, filed an intervention for the interest of the
insurers of the freight on the cargo, in which it was prayed
that the order for the sale of the cargo be rescinded. This intervention was supported by affidavits filed by the intervenors
and by a brief of the proctor. Afterwards, on March 6th, after
consideration of the rule taken by the master of the ship to
rescind the order of sale, and of the evidence and arguments
thereon, and of the last named intervention, and of the affidavits and bief submitted therewith, the court ordered that
the master be allowed to bond the ship and such of the cotton
then stored in the levee steam cotton-press as was in good
order, amounting to 523 bales, and that the remainder of the
cargo on board the ship or upon the levee, which was more or
less damaged, be sold by the marshal after three days' notice,
and all questions of freight were reserved by the court, and the
court appointed a trinity master to advise and assist in making
sale of the cotton. On the 19th of March, the underwriters
filed their claim, claiming all of the cargo, and procured an
order from the judge of the district court to be entered on their
claim, suspending the right given to the master, on the 6th of
March; to bond such of the cotton as was stored in the levee
cotton-press, to wit, about 500 bales, until the further order of
the court. On March 26th, the master not having bonded the
cotton, a rule was taken and duly served on him to show cause
why the order of March 6th, so far as it allowed him to bond a
portion of the cotton, should not be rescinded, and the movers
of the rule, the insurers of the cargo, be allowed to bond the
same. The rule was heard on March 27th, the movers of the
rule and the master being represented by their respective
counsel, and was by the court made absolute, without opposition, and the order allowing the master to bond said portion of
the cargo was rescinded, and the movers of the rule were
allowed to bond the same.
On the 30th of March, the present libel was filed. The
unsold cargo and the proceeds of that which had been sold

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

were then in the custody of the marshal, in the suit for salvage.
The libel recites the proceedings above mentioned, and alleges
that the cotton might have been picked, dried and rebaled, and
sent tQ its destination and freight have been earned thereon,
but that the application of the master to bond the cargo was
refused, owing to the opposition of the libellant for salvage,
and especially to the opposition of the underwriters on the
cargo; and that, under the contract of carriage, it was the right
as well as the duty and the desire of the libellants to pick, dry
and rebale so much of the cotton as might require it, and which
could easily have been done, and to carry it to its destination
and earn the freight money for carrying it, which they had
been unable to do because they had been denied the right to
bond it, owing to the opposition of the libellant for salvage
and of the underwriters on the cargo, resulting in the taldng
away of the cargo entirely from the master, in consequence of
which the entire freight money agreed on became due, as well
as money paid by the libellants for compressing and stowing
the cargo in the vessel, and other expenses incident thereto,
and for railroad charges, for all of which the libel claims a
lien on the cargo and on the proceeds of sale.
The circuit court found the following further facts: The
libellants paid for compressing the cargo before it was put on
board, and for stowing it on board, and other expenses incident
thereto, $14,278.26. The gross freight on the cargo, had it
been delivered at its destination in Liverpool, as required by
the bills of lading, would have been ยฃ4,169 13s Id. Of the cotton, 523 bales were in an undamaged and sound condition,
being the 23, the 164 and the 336 before mentioned. In consequence of the fire, and as a result thereof, the ship was so badly
damaged that the cost of her repairs would exceed her value
when repaired, and she was unseaworthy and incapable of
carrying freight. The 523 bales were bonded by the underwriters and were appraised at the sum of $19,100. The gross
proceeds of the sale of the damaged cotton amounted to
$116,000.
The purchaser at the marshal's sale shipped to
Northern States, in the condition in which it came from the
ship, 1,185 bales of the damaged cotton; and 2,896 bales more

THE TORNADO.
Opinion of the Court.

were picked, dried, rebaled and shipped, part to Liverpool and
the rest to Philadelphia. All the damaged cotton taken from
the ship was unmerchantable cotton, even after it had been
picked, dried and rebaled, that is, it could not be used for
making cotton cloth, but could only be used for making felt
hats, paper, wadding and such like articles, having lost, by the
submersion and drying, a large part of its natural oil, its fibre
being injured and its weight reduced.
On the facts so found the circuit court held that the libellants had no lien on the cargo or its proceeds, for freight or
for the money paid by them for compressing and stowing the
cargo, and dismissed the libel.
The libellants seek to apply to the present case the principle
applied where a voyage partly performed is interrupted by a
disaster to the ship, namely, that the ship-owner has a lien on
the cargo for the earning of the freight, and so has a right to
carry the cargo forward by his vessel or some other conveyance,
and deliver it and receive his full freight. As in the case of a
disaster to the ship in the course of a voyage the whole freight
is payable if, by the fault of the owner of the cargo, the master
is prevented from forwarding the cargo from an intermediate
port to its destination, it is contended in the present case that
the libellants have a right to recover the whole agreed freight,
because they had a right to send the cargo to Liverpool and
earn full freight, and were prevented from doing so by the
action of the underwriters, who became, by abandonment, the

owners of the cargo. It is also contended that the owners had
a right to repair the ship, even though the cost of repairing
would exceed her value when repaired.
The law in regard to the respective rights and liabilities of
shipper and ship-owner, where cargo has been carried for a
part of a voyage, is nowhere better expressed than by Lord
Ellenborough, in Hfunter v. Primep, 10 East, 378, 394:
"The ship-owners undertake that they will carry the goods to
the place of destination, unless prevented by the dangers of the
seas, or other unavoidable casualties ; and the freighter undertakes that if the goods be delivered at the place of their desti-

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.
nation he will pay the stipulated freight ; but it was only in that
event, viz., of their delivery at the place of destination, that he,
the freighter, engages to pay anything. If the ship be disabled
from completing her voyage, the ship-owner may still entitle
himself to the whole freight, by forwarding the goods by some
other means to the place of destination ; but he has no right to
any freight if they be not so forwarded ; unless the forwarding
them be dispensed with, or unless there be some new bargain
upon this subject. If the ship-owner will not forward them, the
freighter is entitled to them without paying anything. One
party, therefore, if he forward them, or be prevented or discharged from so doing, is entitled to his whole freight ; and the
other, if there be a refusal to forward them, is entitled to have
them without paying any freight at all. The general property
in the goods is in the freighter ; the ship-owner has no right to
withhold the possession from him, unless he has either earned his
freight, or is going on to earn it. If no freight be earned and
he decline proceeding to earn any, the freighter has a right to
the possession."

These remarks were made in regard to a voyage partly performed, and interrupted by a disaster, where freight money
was claimed pro rata itiner s peracti. But no case can be
found in which freight money has been allowed, where the
voyage was not commenced, and the ship was, by a disaster
for which the shipper was not at all responsible, put into the
situation of the vessel in this case after the contract of carriage
was made.
In the present case the ship was rendered unseaworthy by
the fire and incapable of earning freight, and was so badly
damaged that the cost of her repairs would exceed her value
when repaired. There is no suggestion in the findings that
there was any intention of repairing her, and on the facts
found it must be presumed she would not have been repaired.
All that could have been done, if the cargo had been bonded
by the master or ship-owners, in regard to sending it forward,
would have been to send it by another vessel. But, although
the order of March 6th allowed the master to bond the 523

THE TORNADO.
Opinion of the Court.

undamaged bales, and there was no suspension of that order
untilthe 19th of March, they were not bonded.
We are of opinion that by the disaster which occurred before
the ship had broken ground or commenced to earn freight, the
circumstances with reference to which the contract of affreightment was entered into were so altered by the supervening of
occurrences which it cannot be intended were within the contemplation of the parties in entering into the contract, that the
shipper and the underwriters were absolved from all liability
under the contract of affreightment. The contract had reference
to a particular ship, to be in existence as a seaworthy vessel and
capable of carrying cargo and earning freight and of entering
on the voyage. All the fundamental conditions forming part
of the contract of the ship-owner were wanting at the time
when the earning of freight could commence. In addition, as
the result of the fire, and by no fault of the shipper, all but 523
bales of the cotton was rendered unmerchantable, and put into
such a condition that its owner might well hesitate to incur
the expense of sending it to Liverpool. As to the undamaged
cotton, the master had an opportunity for thirteen days to
bond it, and failed to do so.
The money paid by the ship-owners for compressing and
stowing the cotton, and for other expenses incident thereto,
must be understood as having been included in the freight
money, and to be reimbursed out of that, and to be money for
which, in any event, the shipper of the cotton would not have
been liable in addition to the freight money. If the ship-owner
was not entitled to the latter, he was not entitled to anything.
le took, as to the expenses, the risk of losing them if he lost
the freight money. So, the two are bound up together.
It is an inherent element in a contract of affreightment under
a bill of lading, that the vessel shall enter on the voyage named,
and begin the carriage of goods shipped, or, as it is technically
called, break ground, before a claim to freight money can arise,
unless the shipper of the goods, the vessel remaining ready to
enter on the voyage, undertakes to reclaim the goods. In the
latter case, the circumstances under which the contract was
entered into continuing substantially the same so far as respects

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

the vessel, the shipper cannot reclaim the goods without paying
.at least full freight. But, subject to this qualification, it is a
principle of the maritime law, that if a ship does not begin her
voyage at all, does not break ground, no freight can be payable. This was laid down and applied in the early case of Curling v. Long, 1 iBos. & Pul. 634. That case has never been overruled and no case holding to the contrary is cited or has been
found. It is a case directly in point in two particulars, and it
will be useful, therefore, briefly to examine it. Some hogsheads of sugar were shipped, under bills of lading, on a vessel
while lying in a port in Jamaica, bound for London. Before
the vessel sailed she was cut out by privateers and carried to
sea, but was recaptured and taken into another port. Under a
libel for salvage in the Admiralty Court of Jamaica the cargo
was sold by order of the court, and the net proceeds were remitted to the defendants for the owners of the cargo. The
ship-owners had expended money in lading the cargo, according
to the usage of the Jamaica trade. They sued the defendants
to recover the freight money or the expenses. It was held
that they could not recover anything; that the inception of
freight was brealdng ground; and that the expenses incurred
were to be reimbursed in the freight money or not at all.
The case of Jones v. -Holm,L. R. 2 Exch. 335, was a different
case. By a charter-party, a vessel was to go to a specified port
and take a specified cargo and deliver it at Liverpool for a
specified freight. She went to the port and was partly laden,
when she was so damaged by fire that she was scuttled. The
cargo was injured and sold, except a small part, not on board,
which was forwarded to Liverpool by the master. The vessel
was repaired and tendered to take the remainder of the cargo.
The charterer refused to supply more cargo, and the vessel obtained a cargo and carried it to England at a less freight than
she would have earned for a full freight under the charterparty. In a suit to recover damages for a breach of the
charter-party, it was held the charterer was bound to complete
the lading of the vessel.
The authority of the case of Curling v. Long, is recognized
in Bailey v. Damon, 3 Gray, 94:; Burgess v. Gun, 3 Harr. &

THE TORNADO.
Opinion of the Court.

Johns. 225; Ceon
v. Davidson, 5 Binn. 392; and in various
text-books-3 Kent's Com. 223; 1 Parsons on Ship. & Adm.
220; Abbott on Shipping, 11th Lond. ed. 407 ; lMaclachlan on
Shipping, 2d ed. 458; Smith's Mercantile Law, 3d Am. ed. 400.
On principle, this case falls within the rule that where the
stipulations of a contract are interdependent, a defendant cannot be sued for the non-performance of stipulations on his part
which were dependent on conditions which the plaintiff has
not performed. The ship-owner was entitled to freight only
for carrying the cargo and delivering it at Liverpool, with the
implied covenant that this particular vessel was to take it on
board and enter on the voyage. Before that event occurred
this vessel was substantially put out of existence by no fault of
the shipper, and he had and could have no benefit from the
contract. He had a right, therefore, to treat the contract as
rescinded, so far as any liability for freight was concerned. In
Taylor v. Caldwell, 3 Best & Smith, 826, it is laid down as a
rule, that, "in contracts in which the performance depends on
the continued existence of a given person or thing, a condition
is implied, that the impossibility of performance arising from
the perishing of the person or thing shall excuse the performance." The reason given for the rule is, that without "any
express stipulation that the destruction of the person or thing
shall excuse the performance," "that excuse is by law implied,
because, from the nature of the contract, it is apparent that the
parties contracted on the basis of the continued existence of the
particular person or chattel." The rule was there applied to
excuse the owner of a music hall, which had been burned, from
fulfilling a contract to let the use of it. The principle was extended farther in Appleby v. Xtyers, L. IR. 2 0. P. 651. There
the plaintiffs contracted to erect certain machinery on the defendant's premises at specific prices for particular portions, and
to keep it in repair for two years, the price to be paid upon
completion of the whole. After some portions of the work
had been finished, and others were in the course of completion,
the premises, with all the machinery and materials thereon,
were destroyed by an accidental fire. It was held that both
parties were excused from the further performance of the con-,

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Syllabus.

tract, and that the plaintiffs were not entitled to sue in respect
of those portions of the work which had been completed,
whether the materials used had become the property of the defendant or not. See Benjamin on Sales, 3d Am. ed. ยง 570;
Wfells v. Calnan, 107 Mass. 514, and cases there cited.
These principles axe so well established that it is only necessary to refer to one case in this court, Jones v. U7nited States,
96 U. S. 24, which recognizes them, in which it is said:
"Where an act is to be performed by the plaintiff before the
accruing of the defendant's liability under his contract, the plaintiff must prove either his performance of such condition precedent, or an offer to perform it which the defendant rejected, or
his readiness to fulfil the condition until the defendant discharged
him from so doing, or prevented the execution of the matter
which the contract required him to perform. . . . A contract
may be so framed that the promises upon one side may be dependent on the promises upon the other, so that no action can be
maintained, founded on the written contract, without showing
that the plaintiff has performed, or at least has been ready, if
allowed by the other party, to perform his own stipulations,
which are a condition precedent to his right of action."

On a full considerationof the case, we are of opinion,that the
decree of the circuit court must be affirmed.

THE CO1NEMARA.
SINCLAIR & Another v. COOPER & Others.
"P'EAL

FROM ThE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Decided April 30th, 1883.

SaZvage-Satutes.
1. A ship, towed by a steam tug down a river, came to anchor in the evening,
and the tug was lashed to her side. In the night, no watch having been

