OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

sent of the inventor, for more than two years prior to the application. The patent is threefore void. XJcClurg v. .ingsknd,
1 How. 202; Pgbert v. Lippman, xbi supra; Consolidated,
FruitJar Co. v. Wright, 94 U. S. 92; Worley v. Tobacco Co.,
104 U. S. 340.
T7e decree of the circuit court must be afrmed.

DOWNTON v. YEAGER MILLING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

Patent-PrintedPublication.
1. The doctrine reaffirmed that the earlier printed and published description
of a subject of a patent which is put in evidence to invalidate a patent
must be in terms that would enable a person skilled in the art or science
to which it appertains to make. construct and practise the invention as
completely as he could do by the aid of information derived from a prior
patent; and that unless it is sufficiently full to enable such person to
comprehend it wfthout assistance from the patent, or to make it or repeat
the process claimed, it is insufficient to invalidate the patent.
2. Applying the doctrine to this case, the appellant's patent held to be void.

The appellant was the complainant in the circuit court. He
filed his bill to restrain the infringement by the appellee of
certain letters patent, for which he made an application on
March 20th, 1875, and which were issued to him on April 20th
following, for an "improvement in processes of manufacturing
middlings flour."
The state of the art, and the purpose of the improvement
which the patent was intended to cover, were set forth in the
specification, as follows:
"This invention has for its aim the better working or manipulating of grain particles known as middlings, for their reduction
into meal or flour.
"To fully set forth the advantages that this process possesses

DOWNTON v. YEAGER MALLING CO.
Statement of Facts.
over any of the various processes previously known and in use, it
will be necessary to previously describe the manufacture as now
practised.
"It is customary under the ordinary mode of milling to separate
and purify the middlings by the action of air alone, or air and
bolting-cloth combined; then to convey the purified product to
millstones to be ground to a sufficient fineness to admit of the passage of the middlings flour through the meshes of the boltingcloth, which is used as a finishing-preparer between the stones and
the flour barrels or sacks receiving the finished product. In
some cases the middlings that are not sufficiently reduced to
go through the meshes of the cloth, pass through the ends of
the flour-bolts, and are brought back into some of the various
purifiers, and subjected to repurification. This process requires
much careful manipulation, and even then the yellow germ and
pellicle of the grain will be so torn and pulverized by the stones
that loose portions of the same will pass through the meshes of the
bolting-cloth, into the flour, with injurious effect. The reason why
the germ and pellicle is so torn is that millstones are composed of
two disks-one revolving, the other stationary-receiving the material to be ground at the eye or centre of the stones, and compelling it by centrifugal force to escape at the skirt or periphery
of the stones, passing alternately over face and furrow until it
reaches the periphery, where it is discharged. Such action comminutes the germs and forms specks that cannot be removed by
the purifiers, and are, therefore, ground in with the flour.
"In the manufacture of middlings flour the action of stones on
the middlings is not different from their action on grain, but in
the wheat-stones the germ ends and bran are not sufficiently cornminuted by one grinding to pass through the meshes of the cloth
used for the flour known to the trade as Ifirst run.' I propose
to arrest and remove such germ matter and bran particles by my
improved process before they reach the second grind on the
middlings-stones, by placing between the purifiers or separators
and middlings-stones one or more sets of rolls, which will operate
to reduce the large middlings by a bruising or crushing action,
while they simply flatten out the intermixed germs and bran.
Any of the various purifiers or separators in public use may be
employed. A second important advantage or result of this improved process is the production of a large yield of high-grade

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

flour. The large middlings or glutinous particles of the grain require more grinding than do the finer and more starchy particles
removed at the head or first part of the purifiers ; and when
ground together, as is generally the case with small mills, and
frequently the case with large mills, the meal is considerably
heated in the grinding, owing to the miller's requiring the
middlings meal to be of uniform fineness. The disposition and
fineness of the small middlings cause them to ' flour' quicker than
the large middlings, therefore the grinding is unequal, as, in
order for the large glutinous middlings to be ground enough, the
small starch middlings must be ground too much. This impairs
the quality of the flour by deadening it, as well as by reducing
the germs and bran to such an extent as to cause them to pass
through the cloth. Some mills, therefore, run the coarsest
middlings to a lower grade of flour.
"It is plain that with an intermediate reduction, by the flattening-rolls working on the large middlings as above set forth, the
comminution of the middlings under the stones is rendered more
equal, and a larger percentage of high-grade flour can be made.
"I will now describe briefly my mode of milling, referring, for
illustrations, to the accompanying drawing, in which"Fig. 1 is a general side view, partly in section, showing an
apparatus, or a series of machines, comprising a section of my
purifier A; and Fig. 2 is a like view of the same apparatus, in
part, illustrating the employment of any other purifier, A'.
"Naturally the germs and bran are kept with the large and
valuable middlings or particles of grain by the bolting-cloth of
the purifying machines or flour-bolts till they reach certain
parts, where the middlings are subjected to strong currents of
air to remove light bran-flakes and fuzzy matter. The partiallyfreed middlings are now passed from the purifier A, or A', between rolls or uniformly rotating surfaces, B, where the good
middlings particles, being more brittle, are reduced to small granules, or to flour, while the germ and heavy bran matter, being of
a soft, plastic nature, is flattened out, so that on passing it into
a reciprocating or revolving bolt, C, clothed with suitable cloth,
the flouring matter is thoroughly removed through the meshes of
the cloth in a fit state of purity to pass to the stones IDto be reground as usual, and the injurious germs and refuse matter are
arrested, so as to be run off into suitable receptacles."

DOWNTON v. YEAGER MhILLING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The claim was stated as follows:
"The following is claimed as new, namely:
"The herein-described process of manufacturing middlings
flour by passing the middlings, after their discharge from a purifier, through or between rolls, and subsequently bolting and
grinding the same for the purposes set forth."

The answer of defendant set up, among other things, as matter of defence, want of novelty, and vagueness and uncertainty
in the specifications and drawings filed by the patentee to
describe his invention.
The circuit court sustained both these defences and dismissed
the bill The complainant appealed.
.Xr. Geo. Hardingand AXr. W. G. Rainey for appellant.
Xr. F.
appellee.

F. Cotzhaer and Xr.

oret -ff.Parkinsonfor the

WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
A grain of wheat may be described generally as follows: It
consists of a pellicle or outside covering known as bran, an
inner envelop consisting of cells and their contents of. gluten
and phosphates, the most nutritious portion of the berry, and
an interior white mass composed mainly of starch and albuminoid matter, extending to the heart of the berry. At one end
of the berry, under an irregularly-curved surface layer of bran,
technically called the shield, is the embryo or germ. The germ
is a yellow, waxy substance, and the bran is consistent and
tough. It has always been the aim of good milling to separate
as completely as possible the bran and germ from the other
contents of the berry, because they not only gave color to
the !lour, but rendered it more liable to sour.
The main purpose of the improvement described in appellant's
letters patent was to accomplish this result by removing the
bran and germ from the coarse middlings, leaving only those
parts of the grain from which pure white flour could be produced. The improvement consisted in a process, and did not
cover the several devices by which the process was carried on.
M£R. JusTiCE

OCTOBER TERMA,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

The process was as follows: Coarse middlings, from which
the fluffy matter had been eliminated by a well-known contrivance known as a purifier, were passed between one or more
sets of rolls which reduced the large middlings to a greater degree of fineness, but flattened out the tough and waxy germs
and bran. After the middlings, with the intermixed germs
and bran particles, had been passed between the rolls, they
were carried to a bolting-cloth. This allowed the comminuted
middlings to pass through its meshes, whence they were carried
to the stones "to be reground as usual," but the germs and
bran particles having been flattened and their surfaces enlarged
by the rolls, could not get through the bolting-cloth, and were
carried to the end of the bolt, and then run off into suitable
receptacles.
It will be observed that all the separate parts of this process
are old. The use of purifiers on middlings to take out the
fluffy particles, the use of rolls to comminute middlings, the use
of bolting-cloths to separate the bran and germs from the flour,
and the use of stones to regrind middlings, all long antedate
the patent of the appellant.
The only field left for invention, therefore, was either a new
order in which the different parts of the process were to be
applied, or some new method of using some one or more of the
devices by which the process was accomplished, or both these
combined, so as to produce some new product, or some old
product in a cheaper or otherwise more advantageous method.
It is claimed for the appellant that his invention consists "in
interjecting in the old modes, after the purifier, a pair of smooth
rolls of equal diameter and running at equal speed, and then
rebolting the product and regrinding the middlings" which
pass through the bolting-cloth.
We are to inquire whether the defence relied on in this case,
that the invention claimed as his own by the appellant, had
been described in a printed publication before his invention
thereof had been made out.
By section 24 of the act of 1870 it was provided that any
person who had invented any new and useful art, machine,
manufacture, or composition of matter not known or used by

DOWNTON v. YEAGER MILLING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

others in this country, "and not patented or described in any
printed publication in this or any foreign country before his
invention or discovery thereof," might obtain a patent therefor.
In construing the words "described in any printed publication
in this or any foreign country," as they were used in reference
to the same subject in section 7 of the act of 1836, 5 Stat. 117,
this court, in the case of Seymour v. Osborn, 11 Wall. 516,
said (on page 555):
"Patented inventions cannot be superseded by the mere introduction of a foreign publication of the kind, unless the description
and drawings contain and exhibit a substantial representation of
the patented improvement in such full, clear 'and exact terms as to
enable any person skilled in the art or science to which it appertains to make, construct, and practise the invention to the same
practical extent as they would be enabled to do if the information
was derived from a prior patent."
So in Co)in v. United States Corset Company, 93 _U. S.366,
Mr. Justice Strong, speaking for the court, said (at page 370):
"It must be admitted that, unless the earlier printed and published description does exhibit the later patented invention in
such a full and intelligible manner as to enable persons skilled in
the art to which the invention is related to comprehend it without
assistance from the patent, or to make it, or repeat the process
claimed, it is insufficient to invalidate the patent."
Applying strictly the rule thus laid down, we are of opinion
that the defence of prior publication has been made out.
After a careful consideration of the evidence in the record,
we are forced to the conclusion that the method of making
flour set forth in the specification of appellant's patent was
fully and clearly described in a printed publication before the
invention thereof by the appellant, and that his patent therefor
is consequently void. We refer to a German work put in
evidence by the defendant, entitled Die Mehlfabrication, by
Frederick Kick, published at Leipsic in 1871. We take the
following extracts from a translation of this book.

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.
"Part IV., Rough Grinding with Roll Mills:
"In the successive process of grit, or high milling, the grain
is crushed in its first passage through between the stones, that is,
broken into parts of different sizes-groats.
"In the disintegrating process which follows next, flour, dust,
middlings, partings, and breakings are obtained. With each of
these substances, classified according to size, particles of the hull
of the same size are mixed, or still adhere to the particles of the
grist. By this method of crushing with stones, a partial splitting
up of the hull is unavoidable, and the flour obtained from such
rough grinding is mixed with particles of bran, even from decorticated wheat, and is therefore discolored.
"If one were able wholly to prevent the disintegrating of the
particles of the hull, the flour produced by rough grinding would
be white.
"This, however, is never fully accomplished; but there is,
on the one hand, a way to diminish the friability of the hull
-by
moistening; on the other hand many sorts of wheat,
under similar treatment, exhibit this difficulty to a less extent,
and therefore produce white flour, viz., soft wheat-or, finally,
machines are employed which, in the process of rough grinding, break up the hull to a less degree, as is the case with roll
mills.
"The roll mills operate partly by crushing and partly by grinding. They produce breakings, which then pass to the stones for
grinding into flour. The surfaces of the rolls are smoother than
those of the stones, and the hull is, therefore, less torn. Of course
the disintegrating by means of rolls is not appropriate for every
kind of wheat. If soft, mild wheat is passed through the rolls, it
leaves the rolls in a flat, compressed condition, whereas, with the
same treatment, hard (Hungarian), wheat is reduced to fragments, and so regularly broken.
"The action of the rolls evidently depends upon their relative
position (their distance apart) ; it also depends on the condition
of their surfaces (whether smooth or channelled) ; and then again
on their relative motion, viz., whether both rolls have like or different velocities.
"If the rolls are so far apart that the wheat sustains only a
moderate pressure, and if they are smooth, then only a breaking
of the grain occurs in the direction of the crease. The berry is

DOWNTON

,.

YEAGER MILLING CO.

Opinion of the Court.
thereby divided into two longitudinal halves, of which many still
cohere at the back, thus resembling an open book.
"In case the rolls are closer together, then, with soft wheat a
flattening takes place, and the middlings obtained therefrom are
very clean or free from bran. Hard wheat is much more considerably reduced, and a proper breaking is eff~ected. . . . Rolls
with smooth surfaces operate more by compression-those with
fluted surfaces more in a cracking or breaking manner. In order
to give the rolls at the same time a triturating effect, they are
made to revolve with different velocities.
"Two, three pairs of rolls may be arranged one above another.
By the first pair ' coarse breakings ' are produced ; by the second
'first breakings,' etc. Hence, the application of three pairs of rolls
permits a gradual disintegration during a single passage of the
grain through the roll mill. . . . There are (as we shall explain
hereafter) certain varieties of middlings in which the but partially broken germs constitute thirty or forty per cent. of the entire mass, and which being yellow granules, give to the entire
mass of grist, with which they are intermixed, a yellowish appearance.
"Now, if this kind of middlings is passed through properly adjusted rolls the tough germs are only flattened, while the other
granules are broken and can be easily separated by sifting. Instead of a pair of rolls, a single roll operating against an adjustable segment of stone or iron may be used. By this latter method
the substance ground is much more subjected to trituration. The
particles already reduced continue to rub against each other and
against the working parts of the machine until they finlly pass
out, in consequence whereof the advantages above mentioned of
the roll mills are greatly neutralized."
We have, in this publication,' an accurate description of the

process covered by appellant's patent.
We have the rolls used for the identical purpose therein set
forth, namely, to reduce the middlings and to flatten out the

germs, so that they can be separated by bolting or sifting, thus
preparing the middlings to be again ground and reduced to
middlings flour.

Appellant insists, however, that the process described by

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

Kick is not applied to purified middlings, and therefore differs
from his.
But it appears, from the well-known state of the art, that
ever since purifiers were invented, it has been the practice to
purify middlings before reducing them, so that whenever the
grinding of middlings is mentioned, graded and purified middlings are understood. The process of purifying, in case of
gradual reduction, is as elementary as bolting, and follows
every reduction of the material. When, therefore, Kick speaks
of passing middlings through the rolls for another reduction, he
must be understood to mean purified middlings. But the evidence in the record clearly shows that the action of the rolls,
and their effect upon the product of the mill, would be the same
whether purified or unpurified middlings, or even wheat, were
used.
Appellant further insists that his process differs from that
described by Kick, because the rolls mentioned by the latter
run at unequal speed. This contention is founded on a misapprehension. The extract from Kick's work expressly says that
"the action of the rolls evidently depends

.

.

.

on their

relative motion, viz., whether both rolls have like or different
velocities." Rolls, therefore, with the same or different velocities could be used in the process described by Kick. His
method included both.
We are also of opinion that the process which appellant claims
as his invention was also clearly described as early as the year
1841 in a publication called Anglo-American and Swiss Science
Mvilling by Christian Wilhelm Fritzsch, published at Leipsic by
Gustav Brauns. This description of the process of manufacturing flour is illustrated by drawings, which make it perfectly
clear that the different parts of the process of the appellant
were anticipated and publicly printed more than twenty-five
years before the appellant, according to his own story, conceived the improvement described in his patent.
Fritzsch describes the process as follows:
"The advantages to be derived from the roll mill consist chiefly
in this, that in operating them a considerable saving of power is

DOWNTON v. YEAGER MILLING

CO.

Opinion of the Court.

achieved as compared with stone nfills. Furthermore, the flour
produced is of excellent quality, both in whiteness and fineness.
,"Inasmuch as the wheat is ground in a dry state, the flour produced is especially adapted with resject to durability for transportation and storing.
"The principle on which all said improvements turn, centres
wholly and exclusively in a desire to effect the grinding of wheat,
so that not only the largest possible quantity of good middlings
flour is obtained, but also that this may be separated from the
hull or bran in its original purity ; or to express it in plainer
words, to obtain the mealy interior substance without admixture
of any part of the hull."
Then follows a description of the mill by which the reduction
of the wheat to coarse middlings is effected:
"The rough-ground product discharged from the mill (in which,
besides middlings, flour has been produced) is thereupon most
conveniently carried into the upper stories of the mill building
by means of an elevator, and is then first transferred to a flour
cylinder for the purpose of separating the flour. The remainder
then goes upon a grit cylinder, where the material is assorted
and separated from the hull in four different grades of middlings.
The middlings thus obtained are thereupon likewise cleaned in
the manner already described, and prepared for flouring.
cThe grinding of middlings takes place by a manipulation varying but little from the process of rough grinding, by means of
a flouring mill, which, together with the crushing mill above
mentioned, constitutes a set or run. We see this flouring mill
upon our plate (fig. 8). Its construction is in the main like that
of the other, only the difference that the upper pairs of rolls are
not fluted, like those in figure 7, but have smooth turned surfaces,
and consequently no under layers (wedges). This under layer
(wedge), is only used ,with the under .pair of rolls, which are
finely fluted.
"The middlings ready for grinding are here also put into the
hopper, as shown, and carried to the first, second, and third pairs
of rolls, in the manner described. The upper two pairs of rolls
crush and triturate the middlings to the utmost degree; there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

fore, it remains for the last lower pair of rolls to shake up the
flour.
"This product, thus finely ground, is now transferred to the
cylinder bolt for separating the flour. The bran-like surplus is
carried with the, hulls to a stone mill, to be very completely ground
out.

"The grinding of middlings in the manner above described has
many advantages in its favor-especially in this, that the hull
particles still contained in the middlings are, by this process, not
any longer decomposed or torn up, whereby the possibility of
transfer of them into the flour is avoided."
In this description we have the purifying of the middlings
by a purifier which is shown in the cut, then the passing of
them between two pairs of smooth revolving rolls of equal
diameter, which axe in all respects like the rolls described in
the specification of appellant's patent, and which necessarily
perform the same function; then the disintegration, or shaking
up as it is called, of the ribbons or sheets of the material which
come from the second pair of rolls, by passing them through
the third pair, which are fluted, but are not allowed to touch
each other, and then their transfer to the bolting cylinder, by
which the flour is separated from the bran and germs.
The only difference between this process and that described
in appellant's patent, is that the last two sets of rolls but one,
mentioned in the process described by Fritzsch, completely reduce the middlings to flour, while in the process under appellant's patent the middlings, after passing between the rolls and
being separated from the germs and bran, are again ground
between stones; but the great feature of appellant's process,
the flattening of the germs and pellicle by passing the middlings
between rolls, is found in the method described by Fritzsch.
The advantages from the process described by Fritzsch are
identical with those claimed for the process described in appellant's patent, first, a saving of power; second, the hull of the
wheat (and necessarily the germ), is not disintegrated and torn
up in passing between the rolls as it would be between the
ordinary millstones, and can therefore be eliminated by the
bolt; and, third, the yield of high-grade flour is increased, and

GROSS v. UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO.

471

Syllabus.
the flour produced is of excellent quality, both in whiteness and
fineness and fitness for transportation and storing.
The printed publications relied on to defeat the appellant's
patent describe the process covered thereby so fully and clearly
as to enable persons skilled in the art to which the invention
relates, to carry on the process. In fact, the description of the
process in the printed publications is, to say the least, quite as
precise, clear, and intelligible as in the specification and claim
of the patent.
The earliest date at which the appellant claims to have invented his improvement is stated by him as in 1872 or 1873.
These publications, therefore, which antedate his invention, one
by at least one year, and the other by twenty-five years, are
fatal to the validity of the patent.
The decree of the circuit court which dismissed the bill must
therefore be affirmed; and
B isso ordered.

GROSS v. UNITED STATES MORTGAGE COTPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

ConstitutionalLaw-llinois-ortgage-Practice-Statute.
The question considered as to when the opinion of the highest court of a State
may be examined for the purpose of ascertaining whether the judgment involves the denial of any asserted right under the Constitution, laws, or

treaties of the United States.
In view of the statutory requirement that the justices of the Supreme Court of
Illinois shall file and spread at large upon the records of the courts written
opinions in all cases submitted to it, such opinions may be examined, in
connection with other portions of the record, to ascertain whether the judgment or decree necessarily involves a federal question within the reviewing
power of this court.
The act of the general assembly of Illinois, in force July 1st, 1875, validating
loans or investments previously made in that State by corporations of other
States or countries authorized by their respective charters to invest or loan
money, is not in conflict with the contract clause of the federal Constitution, nor with that part of the Fourteenth Amendment forbidding a State

from depriving any person of property without due process of law.

