EWELL v. DAGGS.
Statement of Facts.

they made, and the case is one for the interposition of a court
of equity.
17w decree of the circuit court is reversed, with costs, so far as
it dismisses the original bill, and so far as it adjudges that
-Dickey has any equities as against Elliott, and sofar as it
adjudges that Elliott assumed andagreed to pay the amount
due on the mortgage to -Dickey,and so far as it adjudges
that Elliott shall pay to Dickey the amountfound due to
him and the costs of the suit, and so far as it provides for
an application by Sackett for an order that Elliott repay
to him any sum which he may pay on the debt due to-Dickey;
and the cause is remanded to the circuit court, with directions to enter a decree in the original suit granting the
prayer of the bill with costs, and for such further proceedings in the original and cross-suitsas may not be inconsistent with this opinion.

EWELL 'V. DAGGS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT coURt OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TH
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Decided March 26th, 1883.

Interest-Limiation--fortgages-Usury.
1. If an action on the debt secured bya mortgage of real estate in the State of
Texas is not barred by the statute of limitations, a suit on the mortgage
itself is not barred, and this, whether the owner of the equity or a third
person be the mortgage debtor.
2. A contract of a kind which a statute in Texas makes "void" for usury, is
voidable only ; and a repeal of the statute declaring such contracts void
deprives the debtor of the statutory defence.
3. When the amount of the face of a note represents a principal sum and interest thereon at a rate higher than the legal rate, and nothing is said in the
note itself about interest, the note after maturity will bear interest at the
legal rate.

On May 27th, 1856, James B. Ewell and his wife, having
the legal title in fee to the premises, made and delivered to

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

Daggs a promissory note of that date, payable three years
after date to his order, for $3,556, and to secure the same executed and delivered to Daggs a deed of mortgage upon a tract
of land in Guadulupe County, Texas, containing 1,653 acres,
which mortgage was duly proved and recorded on June 5th,
1856.
James B. Ewell acquired the legal title to this land on April
13th, 185-4; but, in equity, it belonged to his brother, George
W. Ewell, the appellant, for whom and with whose money it
had been bought. The legal title was conveyed by James B.
Ewell to his brother, George W. Ewell, on September 6th,
1856, the latter having no knowledge of the mortgage to Daggs,
and Daggs having no notice, actual or constructive, of the
equity of George W. Ewell.
On March 9th, 1872, Daggs, being a citizen of Virginia,
brought his action at law against James B. Ewell and wife, on
the note, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas, and recovered judgment against
James B. Ewell, July 14th, 1873, for $3,530.93.
The defence set up by James B. Ewell in that suit was
usury, the actual amount of the loan having been $2,000, the
residue of the note being interest on that amount until its maturity, at the rate of 20 per cent. per annum, compounded annually.
A statute of Texas in force at that time on the subject of
usury was as follows:
"That all contracts or instruments of writing whatsoever, which
may in any way, directly or indirectly, violate the foregoing provisions of this act by stipulating for, allowing, or receiving a
greater premium or rate of interest than twelve per cent. per annum for the loan, payment, or delivery of any money, goods,
wares, or merchandise, bonds, notes of hand, or any commodity,
shall be void and of no effect for the whole premium or rate of
interest only; but the principal sum of money or the value of the
goods, wares, merchandise, bonds, notes of hand, or commodity,
may be received and recovered."
Payments had been made on the note prior to the commence-

EVELL v. DAGGS.
Argument for the Appellant.

ment of the suit to the amount of $1,745, which were allowed;
but the usurious interest was not deducted, on the ground that
the Constitution of Texas, which went into effect in 1870, and
continued in force till after the recovery of the judgment,
repealed all usury laws and prevented any defence on that
account.
The judgment not being paid, Daggs filed the present bill in
equity January 14th, 1875, to foreclose the mortgage and sell
the mortgaged premises, to which James B. Ewell and his wife,
George W. Ewell, and the heirs of James B. Wilson were made
defendants. The heirs of Wilson claimed title to a portion of
the land under George W. Ewell, by virtue of a sale and actual
possession prior to the date of the mortgage to Daggs. The
decree established their title, and from that there was no appeal.
As against George W. Ewell, however, it adjudged a foreclosure of the equity of redemption and sale of the remainder of
the premises, in default of payment by him of the amount
found due upon the judgment against James B. Ewell, and interest thereon at the rate of twelve per cent. per annum. From
this decree George W. Ewell prosecuted this appeal.
.Yr. WIliam Reynolds for the appellant.-I. The court
erred in overruling the defence of the Statute of Limitations.
In Texas, unlike most States, the mortgage is only an incident
to the debt, and the mortgagor is the real owner, entitled to
possession. Duty v. Graham, 12 Texas, 427; Perkins v.
Sterne, 23 Texas, 561; Blackwell v. Barnett, 52 Texas, 326.
Under the Texas Statute of Limitations the defence of George
W. Ewell must be successful, unless the bringing of a suit
against James B. stopped the running of the statute as to
George W. That cannot be; because, in order to bind one by
judgment in a suit to which he was not party, and by reason
merely of priority in estate, he must have acquired his title,
pos litem motam. Doe v. Dery, I A. & E. 783; -Huntv.
Hfaven, 52 N. H. 162; TIgnslow v. Grindal,2 Greenleaf, 64;
Adams v. Bamnes, 17 Mass. 365; Burleson v. Burleson, 28 Tex.
383. See .ord v. .2orris,18 Cal. 482, which holds that after
VOL. CvI-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

the mortgagor disposes of the premises his personal liability
becomes separated from the ownership of the land, and he can
by no subsequent act create or revive charges on the premises.
-II. The Supreme Court of Texas has held that the Constitution repealing usury laws did not legalize usurious contracts of
a date prior to its adoption. Smith v. Glanton, 39 Texas, 365.
See also .Voris v. Crocker,13 How. 429 ; Steamship Company v.
Joliffe, 2 Wall. 450 ; Inswrance Company v. Ritchie, 5 Wall. 541 ;
Epa'rte .McCardle, 7 Wall. 506; Tarrisv. Runnels, 12 How.
79; lVational Exchange Bank v. .foore, 2 Bond, 170.-I11. There
was error in the computation of interest. The contract upon
which this judgment was founded, being the mortgage note,
did not "bear a specified interest greater than 8 per cent. per
annum, and not exceeding the highest rate of conventional interest permitted," and therefore the judgment should not bear
12 per cent. interest. See note as set out by appellee in his
petition, and also as recited in mortgage.
-Mr. T Jiandolph Tucker for appellee.
M . JusTIcE IMTAri ws delivered the opinion of the court.
Re recited the facts in the language in which they are set forth
above, and continued:
Several defences were made in the court below, the overruling of which are assigned for error, and which we proceed now

to state and consider in their order.

1. The first defence is the Statute of Limitations, as contained
in article 4604, Paschal's Digest, as follows:
"All actions of debt grounded upon any contract in writing
shall be commenced and sued within four years next after the
cause of such action or suit, and not after."
It is admitted that the cause of action upon the note was
not barred when the action upon it was commenced, the period
of limitation not expiring till July 29th, 1872, excluding from
the computation the interval between January 28th, 1861, and
March 30th, 1870, as required by article 12, section 43 of the
Constitution of Texas of 1870.

EWELL v. DAGGS.
Opinion of the Court.

But the statute quoted does not apply to suits for the foreclosure of a .mortgage and sale of the mortgaged property,
such as the present. Such suits are not actions of debt
grounded upon a contract in writing. They are suits to enforce the lien of the mortgage for the satisfaction of the debt
secured by it. If that debt is barred by the Statute of Limitations, then, according to the law in Texas the foreclosure suit
is barred, but not otherwise; for the mortgage is a mere incident to the debt. It was so held by the Supreme Court of
Texas, in M'orm v. Cannon'8 Adm'r, 3 Texas, 231, where it
says:

"If the notes were a subsisting debt at the time of the institution of the suit, not barred by the Statute of Limitations, the mortgage executed contemporaneously to secure their payment was
still valid as long as the debt remained unsatisfied. No matter at
what time the power of the court was invoked for its collection
and foreclosure and for a decree to subject the mortgaged property
to the satisfaction of the debt, it was opportune if the jurisdiction
of the court over the debt itself was not ousted. The mortgage
was but an incident of the debt, and the incident in law, as in
logic, must abide the fate of the principal."
See also Perkins v. Stemne, 23 Texas, 561 ; Duty v. Grahuzm,
12 Texas, 427; Flanaganv. CuwAman, 48 Texas, 241.
There is no force in the suggestion that although the defence of the Statute of Limitations would not avail Jas. B.
Ewell, because judgment had been rendered against him before the bar took effect, it nevertheless is a protection to Geo.
W. Ewell, because he is a stranger to the judgment and mortgage, and the suit now pending was not brought till after
the time limited for an action to recover the debt. For the
present suit is not to recover the debt, nor is it a suit against
Geo. W. Ewell. He is a party defendant, because he has an
interest by a subsequent conveyance in the lands sought to be
sold under the mortgage. Ie has an equity of redemption,
which entitles him to prevent a foreclosure and sale by payment of the mortgage debt; but the debt he has to pay is not
his own, but that of Jas. B. Ewell. If he can show that that

OCTOBER TERMlI,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

debt no longer exists, because it has been barred by the Statute
of Limitations, he is entitled to do so; but he must do it by
showing that it is barred as between the parties to it. If not,
the land is still subject to the pledge, because the conditibn
has not been performed. It is not to the purpose for the appellant to show that he owes the debt no longer, for in fact he
never owed it at all; but his land is subject to its payment as
long as it exists as a debt against the mortgagor, for that was
its condition when his title accrued.
2. The second defence is that of usury. The statute of
Texas on that subject has already been quoted. A contract of
loan at a stipulated rate of interest greater than twelve per
cent. per annum, is declared to "be void and of no effect'for
whole premium or rate of interest only;" but the principal
sum may be received and recovered. The provision of the
Constitution of Texas, sec. 44, art. 12, repealing this and all existing usury laws, is as follows:
"All usury laws are abolished in this State, and the legislature
is forbidden from making laws limiting the parties to contracts
in the amount of interest they may agree upon for loans of
money or other property; provided, this section is not intended
to change the provisions of law fixing the rate of interest in contracts where the rate is not specified." 2 Paschal's Annotated
Digest Laws of Texas, 1132.

It is claimed by the appellant that, notwithstanding this repeal of the usury laws, the rights of the parties are to be determined according to the law in force at the time the transaction
took place; that by the terms of that law the contract between Daggs and James B. Ewell was void as to the entire
interest reserved and paid; that no subsequent law could
make valid a contract originally void; and that the appellant
is not bound by the judgment rendered against James B.
Ewell in favor of Daggs, and is entitled in the present suit to
make the defence.
It is quite true that the usury statute referred to declares the
contract of loan, so far as the whole interest is concerned, to
be "void and of no effect." But these words are often used in

EWELL v. DAGGS.
Opinion of the Court.

statutes and legal documents, such as deeds, leases, bonds,
mortgages, and others, in the sense of voidable merely, that is,
capable of being avoided, and not as meaning that the act or
transaction is absolutely a nullity, as if it never Uad existed,
incapable of giving rise to any rights or obligations under any
circumstances. Thus we speak of conveyances void as to creditors, meaning that creditors may avoid them, but not others.
Leases which contain a forfeiture of lessee's estate for non-payment of rent, or breach of other condition, declare that on the
happening of the contingency the demise shall thereupon become null and void, meaning that the forfeiture may be enforced by re-entry, at the option of the lessor. It is sometimes said that a deed obtained by fraud is void, meaning that
the party defrauded may, at his election, treat it as void.
All that can be meant by the term, according to any legal
usage, is that a court of law will not lend its aid to enforce the
performance of a contract which appears to have been entered
into by both the contracting parties for the express purpose of
carrying into effect that which is prohibited by the law of the
land. Broom's Legal Maxims, 732.
And Lord Mansfield, in ffolman v. Jo)nson, Cowp. 341,
stated the ground on which, in such cases, courts proceed. He
said:
"The principle of public policy is this: ex dolo malo non
oritur actio. No court will lend its aid to a man who founds his
cause of action upon an immoral or an illegal act. If from the
plaintiff's own stating or otherwise, the cause of action appear
to arise ex turpi causa, or the transgression of a positive law of
this country, then the court says he has no right to be assisted.
It is upon that ground the court goes, not for the sake of the
defendant, but because they will not lend their aid to such u
plaintiff."
And the effect is the same, if the contract is in fact illegal,
as made in violation of a statute, whether the statute declares
it to be void or not. Bank of United States v. Owens, 2
Pet. 527. "There can be no civil right," said Mr. Justice
Johnson, in that case, "when there can be no legal remedy;

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court

and there can be no legal remedy for that which is itself
illegal."
A distinction is made between acts which are mala in se,
which are generally regarded as absolutely void, in the sense
that no right or claim can be derived from them; and acts
which are mala 2rohibita,which are void or voidable, according to the nature and effect of the act prohibited. -retcher v.
Stone, 3 Pick. 250. It was accordingly held in Massachusetts
that a mortgage or assurance given on a usurious consideration, was only voidable, notwithstanding the strong words of
the statute. Green v. Kemp, 13 Mlass. 515. And in such
cases, the advance of the money, although the contract is
illegal for usury, is a meritorious consideration, sufficient to
support a subsequent liability or promise, when the positive
bar of the statute has been removed. "A man by express
promise may render himself liable to pay back money which
he had received as a loan, though some positive rule of law or
statute intervened at the time to prevent the transaction from
constituting a legal debt." .Flightv. Reed, 1 H. & C. 703;
32 Law Jour. Rep. N. S. Ex. 265.
The effect of the usury statute of Texas was to enable the
party sued to resist a recovery against him of the interest
which he had contracted to pay, and it was, in its nature, a
penal statute inflicting upon the lender a loss and forfeiture to
that extent. Such has been the general, if not uniform, construction placed upon such statutes. And it has been quite as
generally decided that the repeal of such laws, without a saving clause, operated retrospectively, so as to cut off the defence
for the future, even in actions upon contracts previously made.
And such laws, operating with that effect, have been upheld,
as against all objections on the ground that they deprived parties of vested rights, or impaired the obligation of contracts.
The very point was so decided in the following cases: Curtisv.
.Leavitt,15 N. Y. 9; Savings Bank v. Allen, 28 Conn. 97; Welch
v. Vadsworth, 30 Conn. 149; Andrews v. Russell, 7 Blaclf.
474; Wood v. Kennedy, 19 Ind. 68; Town of -Danville v.
Pace,25 Grat. 1; Parmelee v. Lawrence, 48 Ill. 331;. WoodYa v. Scruggs, 27 Ark. 26.

EWELL v. DAGGS.
Opinion of the Court.

And these decisions rest upon solid ground. Independent of
the nature of the forfeiture as a penalty, which is taken away
by a repeal of the act, the more general and deeper principle
on which they are to be supported is, that the right of a
defendant to avoid his contract is given to him by statute, for
purposes of its own, and not because it affects the merits of his
obligation; and that whatever the statute gives, under such
circumstances, as long as it remains injFeri, and not realized
by having passed into a completed transaction, may, by a sub.sequent statute, be taken away. It is a privilege that belongs
to the remedy, and forhs no element in the rights that inhere
in the contract. The benefit which he has received as the consideration of the contract, which, contrary to law, he actually
made, is just ground for imposing upon him, by subsequent
legislation, the liability which he intended to incur. That
principle has been .repeatedly announced and acted upon by
this court. Read v. Plattsmouth, 107 U. S. 568; and see
Lewis v. lcElvain, 16 Ohio, 347; Johnson v. Bentley, Ib.
97; Tustees v. AfcCaughy, 2 Ohio State, 152; Satterlee v.
Jifathewson, 16 S. & R. 169 ; S.C. in error; 2 Pet. 380 ; Watson
v. ifXercer, 8 Pet. 88.
The right which the curative or repealing act takes away in
such a case is the right in the party to avoid his contract, a
naked legal right which it is usually unjust to insist upon, and
which no constitutional provision was ever designed to protect.
Cooley Constitutional Limitations, 378, and cases cited.
The case of Smith v. Glanton, 39 Texas, 365, cited and relied on by counsel for the appellant, we cannot accept as a
settlement of the law of Texas to the contrary. The opinion
does not consider the question, but dismisses it, on the assumption that the fact that the action was brought before the
adoption of the Constitution which contained the repeal of the
usury laws, prevented the application of the rule.
It is our opinion, therefore, that the defence of usury cannot
avail the appellant, by reason of the constitutional repeal of the
statute, on the continued existence of which alone his defence
rested.
3. It is next objected that there is error in the amount of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

decree, in allowing interest at the rate of twelve per cent. per
annum on the amount of the judgment against James 3. Ewell,
instead of finding the amount due, irrespective of the judgment,
by calculating interest upon the note itself since its maturity,
giving proper credits for payments, at the rate of eight per
cent. per annum. The amount of the alleged error is $805.25,
being the difference between $5,980.22, which is said to be the
amount of the decree, and $5,174'.97, which it is claimed is the
true amount. The law of Texas provides that "on all written
contracts ascertaining the sum payable, when no specified rate
of.interest is agreed upon by the parties, interest shall be
allowed at the rate of eight per cent. per annum from and
after the time when the sum is due and payable." Paschal's
Dig. of Laws, art. 3940; Rev. Stat. 1879, art. 2976; and also
that "all judgments of the several courts of this State shall
bear interest at the rate of eight per cent. per annum from and
after the date of the judgment, except when the contract upon
which the judgment is founded bears a specified interest greater
than eight per cent. per annum, and not exceeding the highest
rate of conventional interest permitted by law (twelve per
cent.), in which case the judgment shall bear the same rate of
interest specified in such contract and after the date of such
judgment. Paschal's Dig., art. 3943; Rev. Stat. 1879, axt.
2980.
The contract on which the judgment was founded stipulated
for no rate of interest, the interest reserved being added to the
principal in the note itself, and consequently it is evident that
the decree should not have allowed interest on the debt at a
rate greater than eight per cent. The amount of the decree
should have been the sum actually due upon the mortgage debt
at the date of its maturity, May 27th, 1859, with interest thereon at the rate of eight per cent. per annum to the time of the
decree, April 25th, 1879, giving proper credit for payments
made on account from time to time, which amounts to $5,174.97,
and on which interest is to be allowed at the same rate until
paid.
In our opinion, the appellant is entitled to have this correction made. le is not bound by the judgment against James

TIE BELGENLAND.
Syllabus.

B. Ewell, to which he is neither party nor privy, and which
was rendered after the appellant acquired his title to the land.
He is consequently not cut off from his right to set up the
matter, on which he now insists. Bloyd v. Scott, 4 Pet. 205;
Brolasky v. MJiller, 1 Stockt. (N. J.) 807; Berdan v. Sedgwick,
44 N. Y. 626; Post v. Dart, 8 Paige, 639 ; Greene v. Tyler, 39
Penn. St. 361.
The decree is therefore modified in respect to the amountfound
to be due and the rate of interest to be allowed thereon, as
already indicated, and with this modiftation, affirmed,
eachlyartypaying his own costs in this court.
r

THE BELGENLAND.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Exoparte WARDEN and Others.
ORIGINAL.
Decided MIarch 26th, 1883.

WARDEN and Others, Petitioners.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

Admiralty-Appeal.-.Madamus-Practice.
1. A final decree in a collision suit in admiralty where the res has been surrendered, on a stipulation under the provisions of ยง 941, Rev. Stat.,
may be entered against both principal and sureties at the time of its rendition.
2. If a decree in admiralty is entered against claimant and sureties, and
claimant appeal, and sureties sign the supersedeas bond also as sureties,
an alternative writ of mandamus will not be granted to vacate the decree below as to the sureties.
8. Nor will this court, on the stipulator's motion, order the decree set aside
here as to them.

