OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

EX PARTE BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ORIGINAL.
Decided Miay 7th, 1883.

.anamus-Turisliction--.Practice--lepilevin.
A writ of mandamus cannot be used to bring up for review a judgment of a
circuit court on a plea to the jurisdiction.
Where a circuit court on demurrer vacated and quashed a writ of replevin for
want of jurisdiction, it was a final judgment, and it was, if the case was
otherwise within the court's jurisdiction, subject to review on a writ of
error.

Motion to dismiss a petition for mandamus to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Virginia
to direct that court to take jurisdiction in a replevin suit.
i1fr. Joh
tioner.

Y. Cowen and Xr. HYugh

. Bond, J., for peti-

]iz{. CHIE JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This petition shows that the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
Company brought an action of replevin against John E. Hamilton in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Virginia to recover the possession of certain railroad cars; that a summons for the defendant and a writ of
replevin for the property were issued in the suit; that the defendant Hamilton was duly served with the summons; that
the property sued for was taken by the marshal under the writ
of replevin and delivered to the company; that a declaration
was filed, and that before pleading thereto Hamilton appeared
and moved to vacate the writ of replevin because the court
had no jurisdiction to issue the same. This motion was heard,
and thereupon the court ordered and adjudged "that said writ
be quashed and vacated, and all proceedings subsequent to be
of no avail;" and that the action "be dismissed at the costs
of the plaintiff, for which execution may issue, &c."

SCARBOROUGH v. PARGOUD.
Opinion of the Court.

This is a final judgment in the action and, if the case is
otherwise within our jurisdiction; subject to review here on a
writ of error. Upon such a writ the question of the right to
maintain the action on which the case was adjudged below, if
presented by the record, may be re-examined here. This being so, a writ of mandamus cannot issue. It has been often
held that mandamus cannot be used to perform the office of a
writ of error. Exjarte .Hoard,105 U. S. 578; Exjparte .Loring, 94 U. S. 418.
In Ex parte Raibvay Company, 103 U. S. 794, it was expressly decided that a writ of mandamus could not be used to
bring up for review a judgment of the circuit court on a plea
to the jurisdiction. That is practically what is asked in this
case.
The writ is denied.

SCARBOROUGH v. PARGOUD.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE

STATE OF LOUISIANA.

Decided May 7th, 1883.

L5imitations.

No judgment or decree of a State court can be reviewed in this court unless
the writ of error is filed in the court which rendered the judgment within
two years from the entry of the judgment.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIF W

ITE delivered the opinion ofthe court.

The final decree in this case was rendered on the 13th of
July, 1878, and while the writ of error was allowed by the
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, and a bond
approved and citation signed on the 5th of July, 1880, the writ
of error was not actually issued until the 14th, and the copy
was not lodged in the clerk's office until the 16th of that
month.
No judgment or decree of a State court can be reviewed
in this court unless the writ of error is brought within two
years after the entry of the judgment. Rev. Stats. ยง 1008;

