M-ERRITT v. PARK.

. 109

Syllabus.

repealed the provisions of the act of 1864 as to such' bottles,
and made mineral waters, not artificial, free, there was no law
in force imposing a duty on the bottles containing such free
waters. The answer to this view is, that the duty imposed by
the act of 1864 was a duty on the article composed of bottle
and water, the specific duty and the ad valorem duty being each
of them a duty on the' bottle and the water considered as one
article. When the water was made free, the whole provision
as to a duty on the aggregated bottle and water disappeared,
leaving existing applicable general provisions to apply to the
bottle.
The provisions so existing after the act of 18'12 took effect
were those found in the acts of 1861 and 1864, and transferred
into Schedule B of section 2504 of the Revised Statutes, and
applied in this case. They were in force as express enactments
when the importation in this case was made. Schmidt v. Badger, ubi supra.
The judgment of the circuit court is reversed, and the case is
remanded to that court,with directions to grant a new trial.

MiEiRRITT, Collector, v. PARK & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE cIRctI

COURT OF THE UNWED STATES FOR THR

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Decided March 19th, 1S83.

Customs Duties.
The decision of this court, in Schmidt v. Badger, 107 U. S. 85, that, under the
statutory provisions in question in this case, the proper duty on the importation of glass bottles containing beer, was a duty of 80opercent. ad valorem
on the bottles, in addition to a specific duty of 85 cents a gallon on the
beer, confirmed and applied to this case.

The facts are all in the opinion.
AXr. Sol citor-GeneralPkhillps for collector.

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Syllabus.

3fr. Edward Hartey and -Yr. Walter i
pellees.
MxfR.

JUSTICE

BLATcHFORD

Coleman for ap-

dplivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit to recover back duties exacted by the plaintiff
in error, as collector of the port of 1ew York, on glass bottles
imported in March, 1879, from London. The bottles contained
beer, and the defendant below exacted a specific duty of 35 cents
a gallon on the beer, and also a duty of 30 per cent. ad valorem
on the bottles. The bottles were the ordinary ale bottles of
commerce. The circuit court directed a verdict for the plaintiffs, and they had a judgment, to review which the collector
brought this writ of error.
The question involved is the same, and arose under the same
statutory provisions, as in the case of . Schmidt v. Badger,
107 U. S. 85. It was there held that such duty on the bottles, in addition to such duty on the beer and ale contained in
them, was a lawful duty. That decision governs the present
case, and the judgment of the circuit court is reversed and the
case is remanded to that court, with directions to grant a new
trial.

OTTAWA v. CAREY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Decided 2Iarch 19th, 183.

.Municipal Bonds-Munii_pal Corporations.
1. Municipal corporations, being created only to aid the State government in
the legislation and administration of local affairs, possess only such powers as are expressly granted, or as may be implied because essential to
carry into effect those wlich are expressly granted.
2. Bonds issued by a municipal corporation, but not under either a general
authority to borrow for corporate purposes, or a special legislative
authority to borrow for purposes within the power of the legislature to
confer, are void in the hands of a person who is not an innocent bonafide
holder without notice.

