TIE BELGENLAND.
Syllabus.

B. Ewell, to which he is neither party nor privy, and which
was rendered after the appellant acquired his title to the land.
He is consequently not cut off from his right to set up the
matter, on which he now insists. Bloyd v. Scott, 4 Pet. 205;
Brolasky v. MJiller, 1 Stockt. (N. J.) 807; Berdan v. Sedgwick,
44 N. Y. 626; Post v. Dart, 8 Paige, 639 ; Greene v. Tyler, 39
Penn. St. 361.
The decree is therefore modified in respect to the amountfound
to be due and the rate of interest to be allowed thereon, as
already indicated, and with this modiftation, affirmed,
eachlyartypaying his own costs in this court.
r

THE BELGENLAND.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Exoparte WARDEN and Others.
ORIGINAL.
Decided MIarch 26th, 1883.

WARDEN and Others, Petitioners.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

Admiralty-Appeal.-.Madamus-Practice.
1. A final decree in a collision suit in admiralty where the res has been surrendered, on a stipulation under the provisions of ยง 941, Rev. Stat.,
may be entered against both principal and sureties at the time of its rendition.
2. If a decree in admiralty is entered against claimant and sureties, and
claimant appeal, and sureties sign the supersedeas bond also as sureties,
an alternative writ of mandamus will not be granted to vacate the decree below as to the sureties.
8. Nor will this court, on the stipulator's motion, order the decree set aside
here as to them.

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Statement of Facts.

One of these proceedings is at common law, the other in
admiralty, but both took place at the same term of court, and
each sought to effect the same thing in a pending appeal in
admiralty.
Under the provisions of ยง 941, Rev. Stat., William G. Warden and others, in September, 1879, became stipulators in the
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, on behalf of the master and claimants of the ]Belgenland, in a suit
brought there in admiralty for collision. The condition of the
stipulation was as follows:
"Now, if the said claimant shall and will truly abide by all
orders interlocutory or final of the said court and of any appellate
court in which the said suit may be hereafter depending, and shall
fulfil and perform the judgment or decree which may be rendered
in the premises, and also pay all costs, &c., this stipulation shall
be void, otherwise in force, and execution may issue by virtue
thereof at one and the same time against any or all the parties to
this stipulation."
Proceedings were had in the suit, and a decree for the payment of money was entered in favor of the libellant and
against the claimants and the stipulators. From that decree an
appeal was taken to the circuit court for the district, where, on
the 14th of October, 1881, it was decreed "that the libellant
recover for himself and the other parties in interest, from the
respondent, Samuel Jackson, and his stipulators, Joseph D.
Potts, William G. Warden, Edward N. Wright, and James A.
Wright, his or their damages for the collision mentioned in
the libel,

.

.

.

aggregating, in all, the sum of $51,594.14."

The decree was also entered as a lien against the real estate of
the stipulators.
Upon the rendition of this decree an appeal was taken by the
claimant to this court, the petitioners signing a supersedeas
bond as sureties. The petitioners being seized of real estate in
the district, applied to the circuit court to vacate the decree
against them, on the ground that it was inadvertently entered
and caused a cloud on the titles to 'their property. The court
declined to make the order, and an application was presented

THE BELGENLAND.
Argument for the Relators.

for a mandamus requiring it to be done. After reciting the
facts, the petition for the mandamus made the following averments:
"Your petitioners show that they are hindered and affected by
the cloud on the titles of their respective real estates within the said
district by reason of the decrees so rendered against them as stipulators as aforesaid ; that titles have been refused by purchasersand they are advised that such decrees are improvidently entered
against them, as an appeal in admiralty operates not only as su.persedeas,but also vacates any decree of the court from whose
decree the appeal is t~ken, and that no decree can be lawfully
entered against stipulators whose obligation is conditional on the
performance of the decree which may be finally rendered against
the claimant, within the ten days allowed to the claimant, in which
he may take an appeal from the decree rendered ; and that your
petitioners are without remedy in the premises, unless redress is
given as herein prayed, as no writ of error or appeal lies to the
order of the court refusing to vacate said decree."
X1r'.
orton P. Hen-y for'the relators.-The petitioners,
being sureties, have no right of appeal or writ of error. The
WVanata, 95 U. S. 600; The Ann Caroline, 2 Wall. 538.
Their only remedy is by mandamus. Bank of Columbia v.
Sweeney, 1 Pet. 567. The decree entered below was illegal.
The -Stew Orleans, 17 Blatchf. 216. It is not a lawful judicial
sentence against the relators. The final decree to which the
appeal lies condemns the vessel and assesses the damages if
found in fault. The execution may proceed against claimant
and stipulators at the same time by virtue of the act of 1847,
Revised Statutes, section 942. But the engagement of the
stipulators is none the less collateral to the proceedings in rem.
The stipulator is a surety, with all the rights incident to suretyship, and not a principal. He is entitled to subrogation and
redress as a surety. Within the ten days allowed the claimant
to appeal, Revised Statutes, sections 1007 and 1012, sentence is
not pronounced against the stipulator, because an appeal vacates
the decree and his obligation does not become fixed, and if the
stipulator should within that time satisfy the decree, he would

OCTOBER TERMI, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

have no recourse against his principal-and the admiralty procedure does not pronounce a sentence he cannot fulfil without losing recourse against his principal.
delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not stated in the petition that the stipulation was executed under the provisions of sec. 941 of the Revised Statutes,
but for the purposes of this application we assume it was, there
being no representation to the contrary. That section provides
in express terms for a return of the stipulation to the court, and
that "judgment thereon against both principal and sureties
may be recovered at the time of rendering the decree in the
original cause." It would seem as though nothing more was
needed to show the power of the court to include the stipulators in the original decree. Under section 1007 of the Revised
Statutes, no execution can issue until the expiration of ten days
after the entry of the decree. In this respect these decrees are
like others. An appeal with supersedeas stays execution
against the stipulators as well as the principal. Therefore,
there is nothing in the decree inconsistent with the provision in
the stipulation in respect to the time when execution may issue.
It is no doubt within the power of the court to postpone a
decree against the sureties until after the time for appeal by the
principal has expired, and then to proceed only on notice.
Such is the practice in some of the circuits, but we can find
nothing in the statute which makes this imperativ e. In the
case of Te -New Orleans, 17 Blatchf. 216, to which our attention has been directed by the counsel for the petitioners, the
proceeding was against the sureties for the claimants, on their
appeal from the district court to the circuit court, and the court
refused to enter the judgment on such a bond until after the
time for perfecting an appeal to this court had expired. Tha'
was an entirely different question from the one presented here
upon a stipulation entered into under section 941.
It is unnecessary to consider whether in law the decree is a
lien on the real estate of the stipulators after the appeal. Our
inquiry is not as to the effect of the decree, but as to the jurisdiction of the court to enter it. If there was jurisdiction, any
MvR. C.HIEF JUSTICE WAITE

THE BELGENILAND.
Opinion of the Court.

error that may have been committed cannot be corrected by
mandamus.
As, upon the showing made by the petitioners, we are
clearly of opinion they are not entitled to the relief they ask.
The alternativew4rit is denied.
The stipulators then filed their petition in this court setting
forth the same facts, and prayed "this court by an order in this
cause to grant relief, by setting aside the said decree as a lien
on the real estate of the petitioners, on such terms as the
court shall be pleased to pronounce- just and equitable, to
sureties in a cause pending an appeal; or will be pleased by its
mandate to direct or authorize the circuit court to proceed in
the said matter in such manner as shall be consonant to the'
rights of your petitioners and of the libellant; your petitioners submitting themselves in all things to the order to be made
on the premises."
.Ab'. Xoforton P. Henry in support of the motion.
_31r. Henry Flandersagainst it.
TUSTIOE WA=TE delivered the opinion of the court.
The decree appealed from was against the respondent and
his stipulators. If the decree operates as a lien on the real estate
of the stipulators, notwithstanding the appeal, it is an advantage
the law gives the appellee for his security, with which we
ought not to interfere in advance of the hearing of the case on
its merits. Whether there is such a lien we do not decide.
That is a question which is not presented to us for determination by the appeal.

M-. COI

l'fotion denied.

