ADRIATIC FIRE INS. CO. v. TREADWELL.

361

Statement of Facts.

ADRIATIO FIRE INSUJRANCE COMiPA NY v.
TREAD WELL.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Decided April 80th, 1883.

Contract.
Several insurance companies having policies on the same property agreed together to defend against claims for insurance, by a written instrument
of which the following is the material part: the said companies will unite
in resisting the claim made upon said policies, and on each thereof, and
in the defence of any and all suits and legal proceedings that have been or
may be instituted against any of said companies upon any of said policies,
and will, when and as required by the committee hereinafter mentioned,
contribute to and pay the costs, fees, and expenses of said suits and proceedings pro rata; that is to say, each company shall pay such proportion
of said costs, fees, and expenses as the amount insured by said company
shall bear to the whole amount insured on said property by all the companies subscribing to this agreement. The management and conduct of
said resistance to said claims and defence of said suits and proceedings
shall be and is fully entrusted to and devolved upon a committee to be
composed of W. H. Brazier and James R. Lott, of the city of New York,
Charles W. Sproat, of the city of Boston, L. S. Jordan, of the city of Boston, which committee shall have full power and authority to employ counsel and attorneys to appear for said companies and each thereof, and defend
said suits and legal proceedings, and to employ other persons for other services relative thereto, and to assess upon and demand and receive from
such companies, from time to time, as such committee shall deem proper,
such sum or sums of money for the compensation of such counsel and attorneys, and such other persons, and all other expenses of such defence of
said suits as said committee shall deem necessary and expedient; such assessment upon and payment by each of said companies to be pro 'rata, as
above mentioned. The committee named in the agreement communicated
it to the defendaftt in error, and employed him as counsel in resisting the
suits. On a suit for professional service brought by him against the companies jointly : Held, That any contract there may have been between him
and the companies was several not joint.

Action by defendant in error, who was plaintiff below, to recover $15,000 for professional services claimed to have been rendered to the plaintiffs in error jointly.. The defence was that
the contract was several. The agreement between the companies

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

on which the alleged joint contract was founded appears in the
opinion of the court. The court below held the contract to be
joint, and gave judgment for the plaintiff below for $8,000.
The defendants below sued out their writ of error and brought
the case here.
-.. John E Parsonsfor plaintiff in error.
M'r. Luther B. Marsh and _fr. William G. TWilson for defendant in error.
IMITruws delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by the defendant in error to recover
compensation for professional services as an attorney and counsellor at law, rendered, as alleged, at the instance and request
of the defendants in error, and each of them, as well as of sundry other corporations not inhabitants of the Southern District
of New York or of the State of New York, nor found therein,
and, therefore, not joined, as defendants below, in and about .the
defence of certain suits brought against several of them in
Massachusetts, but in which all had a common interest, and for
which it is alleged these companies, including the plaintiffs in
error, jointly and severally promised to pay what said services
were actually worth.
The cause was tried by a jury, and resulted in a verdict and
judgment for the plaintiff below, to reverse which, for errors
of law alleged to have occurred in the rulings of the court durAIR. JUsTicE

ing the trial and presented in a bill of exceptions, this writ of

error isprosecuted.
The plaintiff below put in evidence an agreement in writing,
signed by fifteen insurance companies, including the defendants, a copy of which is as follows:
"In re Taylor, Randall & Company
versus
The St. Paul Fire & Marine Insurance
Company et als.
"The undersigned insurance compnnies, having policies outstanding issued to Taylor, Randall & Company, upon property at
Central Wharf, Boston, upon which claims have been made against

ADRIATIC FIRE INS. CO. v. TREADWELL.

363

Opinion of the Court.
said companies, do, in consideration of one dollar, by each paid to
the other, and divers other good and valuable considerations,
mutually covenant and agree to and with each other as follows,
that is to say: the said companies will unite in resisting the
claim made upon said policies, and on each thereof, and in the
defence of any and all suits and legal proceedings that have been
or may be instituted against any of said companies upon any of
said policies, and will, when and as required by the committee
hereinafter mentioned, contribute to and pay the costs, fees, and
expenses of said suits and proceedings pro rata; that is to say,
each company shall pay such proportion of said costs, fees, and
expenses as the amount insured by said company shall bear to
the whole amount insured on said property by all the companies
subscribing to this agreement. The management and conduct of
said resistance to said claims and defence of said suits and proceedings shall be and is fully entrusted to and devolved upon a
committee to be composed of W. H. Brazier and James R. Lott,
of the city of New York, Charles W. Sproat, of the city of Boston, L. S. Jordan, of the city of Boston, which committee shall
have full power and authority to employ counsel and attorneys to
appear for said companies and each thereof, and defend said suits
and legal proceedings, and to employ other persons for other services relative thereto, and to assess upon and demand and receive
from such companies, from time to time, as such committee shall
deem proper, such sum or sums of money for the compensation of
such counsel and attorneys, and such other persons, and all other
expenses of such defence of said suits as said committee shall
deem necessary and expedient ; such assessment upon and payment
by each of said companies to be pro rata,as above mentioned.
"Each and every of said companies shall fully and faithfully
adhere to this agreement, and shall refrain from any act or proceeding in reference to such claims or suit, or the defence thereof,
that can or may in anywise defeat, obstruct, or interfere with the
acts or proceedings of said committee relative thereto, and shall
at all times furnish to said committee any and all papers, information, and assistance in and about such management and conduct of such resistance and defence as may be in the possession
or power of said companies respectively, and as may be desired
by said committee. ,
"In witness whereof the said insurance companies have sub-

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

scribed this agreement, this twenty-fourth day of April, eighteen
hundred and seventy-four."
Prior to the execution of this agreement, suits had been commenced against some of the companies, other than the plaintiffs
in error, in Boston, in one of which the agreement itself is entitled; and the defendant in error had been employed to defend
them. After the agreement had been signed, the committee
named in it employed the defendant in error on behalf of all
the companies parties to it. ie testified that the agreement
was shown to him, and that he accepted the invitation to become the attorney of the companies. The employment was
general, no special terms being fixed, and it is not questioned
that it was with full knowledge of the agreement between the
companies, and according to the authority conferred by it upon
the committee. The plaintiff below having proved the fact
and value of the services rendered, rested his case, at the conclusion of which and afterwards again, after all the evidence had
been put in, the defendants below requested the court to instruct
the jury to find a verdict for the defendants, on the ground
"that the agreement was not one under which any joint liability could be created; that the provisions of the agreement were
specific, the parties to the agreement were only to pay severally
and pro rata any amount that should become due under the
agreement."
This instruction the court refused to give, and that refusal is
now assigned for error.
The committee appointed by the agreement between the insurance companies, were special agents only for the purposes
and within the limits declared in it. They had no authority to
bind their principals beyond its import, and the limits of that
authority were made known to the defendant in error when he
accepted employment from them. Whatever authority to bind
the companies in making that employment had been conferred
upon them by the agreement, they in fact exerted. So that
the question to be determined is, whether that agreement conferred upon the committee authority to bind the companies
jointly, or jointly and severally, to pay the expenses of the liti-

ADRIATIC FIRE INS. CO. v. TREADWELL.

365

Opinion of the Court.

gation; or, whether they became liable, severally only, each
for its proper proportion.
The contract, it vill be observed, is between the companies.
No other person is a party. The promises are between them
severally. Each binds itself to each of the others. There is
no joint undertaking or promise, on the part of all, to any one
else. They "mutually covenant and agree to and with each
other." They do agree, indeed, that they " will unite in resisting the claim made upon said policies, and on each thereof, and
in the defence of any and all suits and legal proceedings that
have been or may be instituted against any of said companies
upon any of said policies;" but, as to the obligation of payment on that account, its nature and extent, the agreement is,
that they "will, when and as required by the committee hereinafter mentioned, contribute to and pay the costs, fees, and
expenses of said suits and proceedings pro rat ; that is to say,
each company shall pay such proportion of said costs, fees, and
expenses as the amount. insured by said company shall bear
to the whole amount insured on said property by all the companies subscribing to this agreement." These expressions leave
no doubt as to the intention of the parties in regard to the limit
of their several liabilities as between themselves.
The management and conduct of this common defence was
entrusted to and devolved upon a committee of named persons;
and the powers and rights of that committee are expressly defined. They are given full power and authority to employ
counsel and attorneys to appear for said companies and each
thereof, and defend said suits and legal proceedings, and to
employ other persons for other services relative thereto. They
are thus constituted the agents, for the purposes named3 of the
parties to the contract, and whatever they do within the terms
of that agency, which, of course, is not general, but special,
binds the parties according to their agreement. The committee
is not a party to the agreement, but derives its powers from it
and has rights under it, chiefly the right of reimbursement for
expenses and indemnity for obligations legitimately incurred.
This right would be implied, if it were not expressed; but if
the mode and measure of it are expressly declared, no impli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

cation can enlarge its limits. It is in fact expressly defined.
The committee have, by the further provisions of the agreement, also, full power and authority "to assess upon and demand and receive from such companies, from time to time, as
such committee shall deem proper, such sum or sums of money
for the compensation of such counsel and attorneys, and such
other persons, and all other expenses of such defence of said
suits as said committee shall deem necessary and expedient,
such assessment upon and payment by each of" said companies
to be pro q'ata, as above mentioned." It is very clear, we
think, from this language, that for any advances made by the
committee for the expenses of the defence, or for any indemnity against any personal liability they may have incurred in
conducting it, they could have no personal recourse upon the
companies except by way of assessment upon them severally,
each for its own proportion, according to the ratio fixed by the
agreement. Such proportion could be enforced by action
against each delinquent company. There is no ground on
which the companies could be made jointly responsible, so that
any one or more could be required to make good the default
of any of the rest. The fund for the payment of all the obligations contemplated by the agreement is limited, in express
terms, to be raised in the mode pointed out in it by affro rata
assessment upon each for its individual share.
Such being the relation between the several companies and
the committee, those employed by the latter for the purposes
of the agreement can have no greater rights than such as grow
out of it. The agency being special, those who claim under it
are bound by its limitations; and in the present case the defendant in error, it is admitted, had actual knowledge of them.
So that, though the employment by the committee established
a privity between him and the parties to the contract, giving
him a right to treat the companies directlyas his principals and
employers, nevertheless it must be taken to be only to the
extent of the authority of the committee under the agreement,
and subject to the limitations imposed by it upon the liability
of the companies. He must be considered as relying, if he did
not stipulate for the individual liability of the members of the

ADRIATIC FIRE INS. CO. v. TREADWELL.

367

Opinion of the Court.
committee, upon their power to raise the fund for the payment
of his compensation by the assessment under the agreement;
which, being made, he would have a right to enforce; or which,
if denied to him wrongfully, would entitle him to his action,
as if it had been made, or against the committee for not making
it. But there is no ground on which he can claim that the employment of the committee imports a joint promise of compensation from the companies, in the face of the express restrictions
upon the power of the committee to bind them otherwise than
severally, each in proportion to its interest. The defendant in
error is and can be in no better position by reason of the employment by the committee under the agreement between the
companies, than the committee would have been if they had
made the advances required, or than he would have beenif he
had been a direct party to that agreement, employed by the
companies according to its terms. There is not only nothing in
the agreement from which it could be inferred that the companies were to be sureties for each other, but that inference is
expressly negatived by the declaration, according to which each
is to be liable for its own separate and proportionate part.
Similar reasoning, leading to like conclusions upon analogous
facts, is to be found in many reported cases. We select, as
illustrations, the following: Peckham v. .Yorth Parishin ITaverhill, 10 Pick. 274; Xudlow v. 31ree, 1 Wend. 228; Ernst v.
Bartle,1 Johns. Cas. 319; -rowe v. Handley, 25 Maine, 116;
Gibson v. luyton, 9 Bing. 297; Fell v. Goslin, 21 Law J. Rep.
N. S. Exch. 14.
In our opinion the court below should have instructed the
jury, as requested by the plaintiffs in error, to render a verdict
for the defendants below, on the ground that no joint liability
had been proven; and its declining to do so was error, for
which the judgment is reversed, with directions to grant a new
trial.
And it is8o ordered.

