OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Statemeht of Facts.

CHICAGO & ALTON RAILROAD COMPANY v. WIGGINS FERRY COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Decided January 29th, 1883.

ConstitutionalLaw-Removal of Causes-Practice.
1. When the courts of one State give to the statutes of another State a different
construction from that given by the courts of the State in which the
laws were enacted, no case arises under the removal act for the transfer
of the cause to the federal courts. The remedy, if any, is by writ of
error after final judgment.
2. A judgment of a State court set up as an estoppel cannot be corrected in a
collateral proceeding in a court of the United States. Until reversed or
brought for review in the manner provided by law, it is entitled to the
same effect in the courts of the United States as in the courts of the State.

Appeal from an order remanding the cause to the State
court.
This is a suit begun in a State court of Missouri by the Wiggins Ferry Company, an Illinois corporation, against the
Chicago & Alton Railroad Company, another Illinois corporation, to recover damages for the breach of a contract by which,
as is alleged, the railroad company bound itself not to employ
any other means than the ferry company's ferry for the transpQrtation of passengers and freight, coming and going on its
railroad, across ,the Mississippi at St. Louis. The railroad company defends on the ground, among others, that if the agreement actually entered into by the parties contains by construction any such provision as is claimed, it is in violation of the
laws of Illinois, and in excess of the corporate powers of the
company as an Illinois corporation. To avoid the effect of this
defence the ferry company sets up, by way of estoppel, a judgment in another suit in a State court of Missouri, between the
same parties, where precisely the same question was raised on
the same contract, and in which it was decided that the railroad company did have the corporate authority under the
laws of Illinois to make the contract. As soon as the pleadings

C. & A. RAILROAD CO. v. WIGGINS FERRY CO.

19

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

in the case developed this issue, the railroad company petitioned
for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Missouri, the proper district,
on the ground that "full faith and credit has not been given to
the public acts of the .State of Illinois by the Supreme Court of
the State of Missouri in the adjudication aforesaid, and that by
reason of the facts herein set forth, and of such adjudication,
and the pleading thereof as an estoppel, in the manner set
forth in the plaintiff's amended petition, this suit is one arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States." The
facts set forth in the petition were the charter and laws of
Illinois, which governed the powers of the railroad company as
an Illinois corporation.
The State court, on the filing of the petition for removal,
accompanied by the necessary bond, stopped proceedings, but
the circuit court, when the record was entered there, remanded
the cause. From an order to that effect this writ of error
has been taken, and is now for hearing on the merits under
the operation of Rule 32, adopted at the last term, with a
view to facilitating the final determination of questions of
removal under the act of March 3d, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat.
470.
.Yr. C. -H._rum for the plaintiff in error. 1. This motion is
not within the rules. To grant the motion would decide the
whole legal merits of the case, which the court has said it
will not do on such a motion. Heacker v. Foz er, 1 Black,
95. 9. The record presents a case which arises under the
Constitution of the United States. This court has held that
"a case in law or equity consists of the right of one party as
well as of the other, and may properly be said to arise under
the Constitutiofi or a law of the United States whenever its
correct decision depends on the construction of either.
That it is not sufficient to exclude the judicial power of the
United States from a particular case, that it involves questions
which do not at all depend on the Constitution or laws of the
United States; but where a question, to which the judicial
power of tne Union is extended by the Constitution, forms an

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ingredient of the original cause; it is within the power of Congress to give the circuit courts jurisdiction of that cause,
although other questions of fact or of law may be involved in
it." Railroad Company v. .2ississippi,102 U. S. 135, 141. The
plaintiff in error having undertaken to limit itself to one mode
of crossing the river at St. ILouis, whatever might be the requirements of railroad transportation and whatever the instructions or the interests of shippers and passengers, brought
itself at once within the prohibition of the policy of the State,
as expressed not only in the statute, but in the declarations of
its court of last resort. C~Uago, &c., Railroad Company v.
People, 56 Ill. at 378, 379; Peoria & Rock Island Railroad
Company v. Coal Comnpanqy, 68 id. 489; Thomas v. Railroad
Company, 101 U. S. 1i. Such being the laws and policy of the
State of Illinois, the plaintiff in error invokes the protection of
the Constitution, which requires "full faith and credit" to be
given in each State to the public acts of every other State. It
maintains that the same effect must be given to its charter and
the laws of Illinois in Missouri as is given to them in the State
of Illinois. The protection of the Constitution cannot be had,
because of the estoppel pleaded by the plaintiff in error. From
the time this estoppel was pleaded a federal question necessarily became involved.
11 1r. C. Beekwith for plaintiff in error.

The more important
question relates to the right of removal, rlaimed under the act
of March 3d, 1875. In RailroadCompany v. Xississippi, it was
held that a suit might arise under the Constitution when the
defendant invoked the aid of any of its provisions as a defence.
That was done below by the plaintiff in error as defendant.
The plaintiff in error was incorporated by the State of Illinois.
The interpretation of the acts of incorporation by the court of
Illinois is as much a part of them as if incorporated in the
acts themselves. The plaintiff in error insists upon its right to
have full faith and credit given in the State of Missouri, to
these public acts of the State of Illinois, as interpreted by its
courts. It is for a federal tribunal to determine what such
public acts are, and the interpretation thereof. Jetfeson

C. & A. RAILROAD CO. v. WIGGINS FERRY CO.

21

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Branck Bank v. &elly, I Black, 436. Counsel for defendant
admit the power of the federal courts to correct errors in this
respect.
The power of the federal government in this respect is coextensive with the provisions of the Constitution.
In Railroad Company v. tississippi, 102 U. S. 135, the removal of the cause from the State court was sustained on the
ground that if the decision should be in favor of the State on
the first ground of defence, the court would be obliged to meet
and determine the operation of an act of Congress. The case
is in some respects like the case under consideration. It appears from the records that the plaintiff in error insisted that
the construction given to the contract sued on by the defendant in error was an erroneous one, and that, under its true
legal construction, the same had not been violated. It further
appears that the plaintiff in error also insisted that if it should
be held that the construction sought to be placed upon the
contract by the defendant in error was its proper and legal
one, that such a contract was not authorized by the public acts
of the State of Illinois, as interpreted by its courts, and was
forbidden by such acts, so interpreted.
These allegations
would have been sufficient to have brought the cases under
consideration within the established rule. Railroad Company v.
.i[ssppi, 102 U. S. 135. It being conceded that the language of the Constitution of the'United States authorizing the
passage of a statute .forthe removal of a cause from a State
court to a federal court at any stage of its progress, whenever
any question is raised requiring the judgment of the judicial
power of the Union as to the true meaning of such Constitution, or as to its proper enforcement, although other questions
of fact or of law may be involved, it necessarily follows that
such other questions of fact or of law are of a secondary nature. By these well established rules, it became the duty of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Missouri to ascertain and judicially determine what the public acts of the State of Illinois were, so far as they related to
the contract sued upon, and to declare the operation and effect
of such laws upon the contract. And it further became the
duty of such court to give force and effect to its determination

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

as to the true meaning of such public acts, as interpreted by
the courts of the State of Illinois.
'r. S'. T. Glover and ffr. J R. Shepley for the defendants
in error.
M

..

CHIEF

JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts in the language cited above, he continued:
In our opinion this is not a suit arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, within the meaning of that
term as used in the removal act. If the courts of Missouri
gave a wrong construction to the laws of Illinois in the judgment set up as an estoppel, that error cannot be corrected by
means of a transfer of this suit from the State court to the Circuit Court of the United States. So long as the judgment
stands, it cannot be impeached collaterally in the courts of the
United States any more than in those of the State, by showing
that if due effect had been given to the laws it would have
been the other way. If it has the effect of an estoppel, as is
claimed, it will continue to have that effect until reversed or
set aside in some appropriate form of proceeding instituted directly for that purpose. The courts of the United States must
give it the same effect as a judgment that it has in the courts
of the State. Whether as a judgment it operates as an estoppel does not depend on the Constitution or laws of the
United States. The correct decision of this question of estoppel, therefore, does not.depend on the construction of the
Constitution or laws of the United States, but on the effect of
a judgment under the laws of Missouri. The public acts of
flinois are in no way involved. If full faith and credit were
not given to them by the Missouri court, in the judgment
which has been rendered, that may entitle the railroad company to a review of the judgment here on a writ of error, but
in no other way can this or any other court of the United
States invalidate that judgment on account of such mistakes, if
any were in fact made.
Another ground taken in support of the jurisdiction of the

C. & A. RAILROAD CO. v. WIGGINS FERRY CO.

23

Opinion of the Court.
circuit court upon the removal is, if we understand the argument 6f the counsel for the plaintiff in error, that the laws of
Illinois, rightly construed, prohibit such a contract as it is
alleged has been made, and as the Missouri court decided the
other way when the former judgment was rendered, a transfer
may be made so as to avoid a like error in this suit. The
question thus presented is not what faith and credit must be
given the public acts of Illinois in Missouri, but what the
public acts of Illinois, when rightly interpreted, mean. That
does not depend on the Constitution or laws of the United
States, but on the Constitution and laws of the State alone.
It is not even alleged in the petition for removal, or claimed
in argument, that the courts of Illinois have as yet actually
given the statutes in question any such construction as it is contended they should have. The most that can be insisted upon
from all the allegations is, that on account of what has been
done in other cases, the railroad company expects, when an

opportunity occurs, the courts of Illinois will decide that the
laws of that State gave the company no power to bind itself in
the way the Missouri court has determined it did. So that the
position of the railroad company on this application seems to
be, that, while the questions arising on the effect'of the public
acts are apparently open in the courts of Illinois, and nothing
has been done which, even on the principles of comity, can
bind the courts of Missouri, a suit pending in a Missouri court
may be removed to a court of the United States, because the
Missouri court, on a former occasion, construed a public law of
Illinois, which is involved, differently from what it should have
done. To allow a removal upon such grounds would be to say
that a suit arises under the Constitution and laws of the United
States whenever the public acts of one State are to be construed in an action pending in a court of another State. Clearly
this is not so. Even if it be true, as is contended by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, that a suit can be removed as soon
as a federal question becomes involved, it is sufficient to say
that in this case such a question has not arisen. Until the
Missouri court fails, in this suit, to give full faith and credit to
the public acts of Illinois, no case has arisen to which the jurisdic-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

tion of the courts of the United States can attach, and then
only for the correction of the errors that have been committed.
It is not enough that in other cases decisions have been made
which, if followed in this, will be erroneous. Until the error
has actually been committed in this case, a federal question has
not become involved. The presumption in all cases is that the
courts of the States will do what the Constitution and laws of

the United States require, and removals cannot be effected to
the courts of the United States because of fear that they will
not.
The order remanding the cause is aefrmed.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILROAD CO. v. SOUTHERN EXPRESS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN

DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Decided January 29th, 1883.

Appeal-quity-Final -Decree-SupplementalOrder.
1. A decree is final, for the purposes of appeal, when it terminates the litigation between the parties on the merits, and leaves nothing to be done
but enforce by execution what has been determined.
2. Matters relating to the administration of the cause, and accounts to be settled in accordance with the principles fixed by the decree are incidents of
the main litigation which may be settled by supplemental order after
final decree.

Motion to dismiss an appeal. The facts necessary for understanding the merits of the motion are stated thus by the court.
The Southern Express Company, an express carrier, filed its
bill in equity against the St. Louis. Iron Mountain & Southern
Railway Company, in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, to enjoin the railway company from interfering with or disturbing the express company in the enjoyment
of the facilities it then had for the transaction of its express
business over the railway company's railroad, so long as the

