OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Syllabus.

the counterclaim or set-off. It is the actual'matter in dispute
as shown by the record, and not the ad damnum alone, which
must be looked to.
Applying this rule to the present case, it is apparent we have
no jurisdiction. The original matter in dispute was $3,000.
On appeals from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia we have jurisdiction only when the matter in dispute exceeds $2,500. Hilton recovered below one-half of the $3,000.
It follows that as to him the matter in dispute in this court is
only $1,500.
The appeal of Hilton is dismissed for want of jurisdiction,
and that of -Devlinfor want of prosecution.

LUDLOFF and Others v. UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO TEE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
Tecided April 2d, 188.
Internal Revenue.
A manufacturer of cigars, in his statement furnished in May, 1878, under
§ 8387 of the Revised Statutes, according to Form 36, set forth "the room
adjoining the store in the rear, on the first floor" of certain premises, as
the place where his manufacture was to be carried on. Circular No. 181,
issued in March, 1878, by the commissioner of internal revenue, required
that a cigar factory should be at least an entire room, "separated by walls
and partitions from all other parts of the building," and that the factory
designated in Form 36V should not any part of it be used, "even though
marked off or separated from the remainder by a railing, counter, bench,
screen or curtain, as a store where the .manufacturer can sell his cigars
otherwise than in legal boxes, properly branded, labelled, and stamped."
This circular went into effect May 1st, 1878. The manufacturer was engaged at the same time and place in doing business as a dealer in tobacco,
having paid the special tax as such, and also the special tax as a manufacturer of cigars. He did not comply with the said circular, and had no
division between the factory in the rear part of the room and the front
part of the room, where he sold articles as a dealer in tobacco, except a
wooden counter extending part of the way across the room, and some three
feet high. He sold out of a show case in the front part, in quantities

LUIDLOFF v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
less than 25, from stamped boxes, which were duly branded, marked and
stamped, cigars which he had made in the rear part, on which cigars the
tax had been paid. For doing so, as a violation of § 3400, in removing
cigars made by him without the proper stamps denoting the tax thereon, a
quantity of cigars, the property of the manufacturer, found in the rear part
of the room, in boxes not stamped, were seized as forfeited to the United
States, under § 8400 : lTeld,
1. The requirements of the circular were within the power of the commissioner to prescribe, under § 3396 ;
2. The sales at retail were in violation of law;
8. The fc;rfeiture claimed was incurred.
The provisions of § 3236, and subdivisions 8 and 10 of § 3244, and §5 3887,
3388, 3390 and 3392, considered and held not to authorize such sales,
they constituting, under §§ 3392, 3397 and 3400, removals of cigars from
the place where they were manufactured, without the proper stamp denoting the tax thereon, because the sales were sales of cigars by their manufacturer, at retail, at the place of manufacture, not in stamped boxes, the
cigars being in his hands as a manufacturer and not as a retail dealer.

Information against a quantity of cigars of domestic manufacture for violation of the internal revenue laws, and the
regulations of the treasury founded thereon. All the material
facts appear in the opinion of the court.
r'. John V Z. Findlay for plaintiffs in error.
.Afr. Soliitaor GeneralPhillipsfor the United States.
MR. JUsTiCE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an information filed by the United States in the Dis-

trict Court for the District of Maryland, against a quantity of
domestic cigars, to obtain their condemnation, as forfeited to
the United States. The information alleges, as a cause of forfeiture, that the cigars were found in the possession of two
persons by the name of Ludloff, doing business as Ludloff
Brothers, who had manufactured them, and who had unlawfully removed certain cigars, by them manufactured at their
manufactory in the city of Baltimore, without the proper
stamps denoting the tax thereon, contrary to section 3400 of
the Revised Statutes. Ludloff Brothers put in a claim and
plea, denying forfeiture, and the issue was tried before a jury,
who found a verdict for the United States. Thereupon a judgment of condemnation of the cigars seized was rendered, which
VOL. cvir-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

was affirmed by the circuit court, and is now brought here for
review by a writ of error taken by the claimants.
The material facts of the case, as they appear by the bill of
exceptions, are these: Prior to the seizure of the cigars, and
before May 1st, 1878, the claimants carried on the manufacture
of cigars in the rear part of a small room on the first floor of
the building known as No. 60 West Fayette street, in the city
of IBaltimore, and at the same time and place were also engaged in doing the business of dealers in tobacco, that is to
say, selling imported and domestic cigars, partly manufactured
by themselves, and partly purchased from others, and also selling pipes, smoking material, chewing tobacco, snuff, &c., &c.,
they having first paid to the United States the special tax as
dealers in tobacco, and also the special tax as manufacturers of
cigars. In the course of said business they sold to their customers cigars so manufactured by them in the rear part of said
room, in quantities less than 25, but out of stamped boxes,
which boxes were duly branded, marked and stamped, and
then deposited in a show-case before said sale was made. No
cigars were sold by them upon which the tax had not been
paid.
On the 21st of March, 1870, the commissioner of internal
revenue had issued a circular (No. 181) in the following terms:
"The portions of the law regulating the manufacture and sale
of cigars, without declaring in specific language that the two
kinds of business, to wit, manufacturing cigars and selling manufactured tobacco and cigars at retail, shall not be carried on in
the same place at the same time, impose such restrictions, make
such requirements, and declare such forfeitures and penalties, as
render it impracticable for these two kinds of business to be carried on together, as above stated. (See sections 3381, 3392 and
3397 of the Revised Statutes of the United States ; also, Special
85, revised, and Form 36-.) Under as lenient a construction of
these several sections of the law as their language and the purpose for which they were enacted, to wit, the protection of the
revenue, will admit, it is held that a cigar factory, ol" the place
where cigars can be made for sale, must be at least an entire
room, separated by walls and partitions from all other parts of

LUDLOFF v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
the building, and that the factory or place of manufacture designated and described in Form 361 cannot be used, nor any portion
thereof, even though marked off or separated from the remainder
by a railing, counter, bench, screen, or curtain, be used as a store
where the manufacturer can sell his cigars otherwise than in legal
boxes, properly branded, labelled and stamped. When a cigar
manufacturer has a store in a room adjoining his factory, a door
and windows may be allowed between the factory and store ; and,
if necessary for light or ventilation, the upper portion of the partition between the factory and store may be of glass or wire-clotb.
Collectors and all other revenue officers are enjoined to see that
these instructions are strictly enforced on and after May 1st,
1878."
This order was disregarded by the claimants, because in
June, 1878, the said district court had decided that the business
of manufacturing and selling cigars at retail, by the same person, at the place of manufacture, as well. as selling at said place
manufactured tobacco, pipes and other smoking material, was
not prohibited by law. Thereupon in August, 1818, the cigars
in suit were seized as forfeited, and were found, when seized, in
boxes not stamped, in the rear part of the room before described. Such rear part had been designated as the factory or
place of manufacture where the claimants proposed to carry on
their business, in manner and form as prescribed by the commissioner of internal revenue, as follows:

"UNITED

STATES INTERNAL

REVENUE.

"Cigar manufacturers' statement.
"To be rendered to the collector or deputy collector in duplicate,
without previous demand therefor, by every manufacturer of
cigars before commencing or continuing business. Act of
July 20th, 1868, section 82, as modified by section 1, act of
December 24th, 1872 ; section 3387, R. S.
"Ludloff Bros., of Baltimore, in the 6th division of the 3d district of the State of Maryland, at No. 60 W. Fayette street, propose to manufacture cigars ; and so much of the building or parts

OCTOBER TERM1,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.
of the building, stories, apartments, room or rooms, as is hereinafter
described, is to be used exclusively and solely for manufacturing
cigars, and is to be known as my manufactory, or place where
cigars are made, to wit, in the room adjoining the store in the rear,
on the first floor of premises No. 60 W. Fayette street.
"There are employed in the premises above described, or I propose to employ, five persons in making cigars; which cigars are
, residing
manufactured for or to be sold and delivered to
, and by occupation a
in the
at No.
"LUDLOFF Bnos.
" (Signed)
"1, William Ludloff, do swear that the above is, to the best of
my knowledge and belief, a true and correct statement of the
place, street, number, and the exact premises where the business
of manufacturing cigars is, or is to be carried on by Ludloff Bros.,
and all the other matter stated herein is true and correct.
" WILLIAM LUDLOFF.
" (Signed)
"Sworn before me this 25th clay of May, 1878.
"R. G. KING, .Dep'ty Collector.
"(Signed)
"NOTE.-The blank space in this form after the words ' to wit'
is to be filled with a precise and accurate description of the premises. If the manufactory comprises anything less than the entire
building, then the description must specify what portion of the
building, whether the first, second, or third story of the same, and
what room or rooms therein. The same premises or room cannot
be used for carrying on the business of a cigar manufacturer and
a dealer in cigars. In any building, room, or apartment of any
building designated in this statement as the manufactory or place
of manufacture, no cigars can be sold except such as are there
manufactured, and are in original and full packages."
At the time of said seizure, the wire partition having been
previously removed by the claimants, there was no division or
separation between the said rear part of the room, designated
as the factory as aforesaid, and the front part of the room,
where the business of selling cigars, &c., was carried on by the
claimants, except a wooden counter extending part of the way
across the room, and from three to three and a half feet high,
upon which said wire part of the partition had rested.

LUDLOFF v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The court instructed a jury that if at the time of the seizure
the cigars were found in the possession of the claimants, and
they were carrying on the business of manufacturing cigars and
selling the same by retail, such retail sales being in quantity
less than 25 and not sold in stamped boxes, and that said manufacture and said retail sales were carried on in a room in which
there was no separation except a wooden bar about three feet
high, extending partly across the said room, the jury should
find for the United States, although they might find that the
claimants made cigars only behind said wooden bar and sold at
retail out of stamped boxes. The court also instructed the jury
that such retail selling, under such circumstances, to persons
who took the cigars away, constituted a removal by the claimants of cigars from their manufactory, without the proper
stamps on the boxes denoting the tax thereon. The court refused to instruct the jury that the business of manufacturing
cigars and selling the same in less quantities than by the box,
at the place of manufacture, is not prohibited by law, provided
the manufacturer has a license as a dealer in tobacco, when he
sells products other than his own manufacture. These instructions and refusal were excepted to by the claimants.
The substance of the instruction of the court was, that if the
claimants had sold cigars manufactured by themselves in quantities less than 95, and not in boxes duly stamped, from the
show-case in the part of the room in front of the bar, they had
incurred the forfeiture in question, although the cigars were
made by them in the rear part of the same room behind
the bar, and were sold at retail out of stamped boxes. It is
to be understood, from the bill of exceptions, in connection
with the instructions and the verdict, that the claimants, after
having had the rear part of the room, namely, the part designated in their "statement" as their manufactory, separated
from the front part or store part of the same room by a wire
partition, so as to substantially make two rooms, and to make
the factory an entire room and a separate room, in accordance
with the instructions of said circular, had, at the time of the
sales at retail complained of as a ground of forfeiture, removed
the wire partition, so that the factory was not then a separate

OCTOBER TERMI, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

room in the sense of said circular, but the manufacturing was
carried on in the same room in which the show-case was and in
which the sales at retail took place. This being so, we are of
opinion that the instructions were correct; that the requirements of the circular were within the power of the commissioner to prescribe, and not repugnant to any statutory provisions; that the retail sales in question were in violation of
law; and that the forfeiture enforced was incurred.
The claimants contend that section 3236 of the Revised Statutes provides that whenever more than one of the pursuits or
occupations thereinafter described, are carried on in the same
place by the same person at same time, except as thereinafter
provided, the tax shall be paid for each according to the rates
scverally prescribed; that, by subdivision 8 of section 3244, a
dealer in tobacco pays a special tax of $5, and can sell manufactured tobacco, snuff and cigars, and by subdivision 10 of the
same section, a manufacturer of cigars pays a special tax of
$10; that the claimants had paid both of these special taxes;
that subdivision 8 of section 3244 provides that no manufacturer of tobacco, snuff or cigars shall be required to pay a special
tax as dealer in manufactured tobacco and cigars for selling his
own products at the place of manufacture; that section 3392,
forbidding the sale of cigars in any other form than in new
boxes containing at least 25 cigars, provides that nothing in
that section shall be construed as preventing the sale of cigars
at retail by retail dealers who have paid the special tax as such,
from boxes packed, stamped and branded in the manner prescribed by law ; and that, under these enactments, no cause of
forfeiture existed.
But we are of opinion that there is nothing in these provisions which authorizes the manufacturer of cigars to sell at
the place of manufacture, from and out of boxes, cigars there
made by him, even though he has paid a special tax as a
dealer in tobacco. The provision in section 3236 refers only to
pursuits or occupations which can be carried on in the same
place by the same person at the same time consistently with
other requirements of law on the subject of the special pursuit
or occupation.
It has no reference to the grant of any

LUDLOFF v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

authority to carry on two *occupations at the same time and
place by the same person, but concerns only the obtaining of a
tax for each of two occupations when they are lawfully carried on.
The provision in section 324 has no other effect than not to
require that a manufacturer of tobacco, snuff, or cigars, who
sells his own products at the place of manufacture in such
manner as is consistent with other provisions of law as to the
manner of the sale of such products, shall pay a special tax as
a dealer in manufactured tobacco and cigars. It has relation solely to the exaction of a tax, and not to the onferring
of authority to sell.
The provision cited from section. 3392 has no relation to
cigars sold as those in the present case were sold, by the manufacturers, at the place of manufacture. The cigars sold were
not in their hands as retail dealers, but as manufacturers, because the requirements of law as to the removal of the cigars
from the manufactory had not been observed, and the cigars
were still in the manufactory.
We perceive nothing in sections 3387, 3888, or 3390 which
affects the foregoing views.
Section 3392 requires that all cigars shall be packed and sold
in new boxes containing at least 25. Section 3397 forbids the
removal of cigars from any manufactory or place where cigars
are made, without being packed in boxes as required, or without the proper stamp thereon denoting the tax. Section 3400
provides that if'a manufacturer of cigars removes or sells any
cigars without the proper stamps denoting the tax thereon, he
shall forfeit to the United States all cigars found in his possession or in his manufactory. Under these provisions the removal of the cigars in this case from the place where they were
manufactured, by selling them at retail not in stamped boxes,
was ground for the forfeiture of the cigars seized.
The regulations prescribed by the commissioner by the circular referred to were within his authority, under section 3396,
to prescribe such regulations for the inspection of cigars and
the collection of the tax thereon as he may deem most effective
for the prevention of frauds in the payment of such tax.
T7hac e's .DiztilledSpiriM, 103 U. S. 679.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1882.
Syllabus.

The proposition asserted in the instruction asked for by the
claimants, and which the court refused to give, is understood to
be, that, as the claimants sold at their shop, as dealers in
tobacco who had paid the special tax, articles not of their own
manufacture, in addition to cigars which they made in the
same room, the sale of the last named cigars was not prohibited
by law. If this proposition has any other meaning than the
propositions before considered, it must be held to be entirely
without support in law or in reason.
Although the record shows that the claimants were, as dealers in tobacco, engaged at their shop in the business of selling
cigars which they purchased, as well as cigars which they
made, there is nothing in the case which raises any other questions than those above considered.
The judgment of Mhe circuit court isaftimed.

CITY OF SAVANNAH v. KELLY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

Decided April 2d, 1883.
ifunicival Corporations-Statutes,Construction of-Repeal of.
1. A statute which authorized a municipal corporation "to obtain money on loan
on the faith and credit of said city for the purpose of contributing to works
of internal improvement," is not repealed by implication by a subsequent statute which, reciting that doubts had arisen respecting bonds
theretofore issued, enacted that "all bonds heretofore issued by the constituted authorities of the city are valid, and from and after the passage
of this act, the mayor and aldermen of the city, upon a recommendation of a public meeting of the citizens called for that -purpose, shall have
power and authority to cause bonds to be issued and disposed of in such
manner as they may direct, for purposes of internal improvement."
2.
statute authorizing a municipal corporation to obtain money on loan on
the faith and credit of the city, for the purpose of contributing to works
of internal improvement, authorizes the municipality to guarantee the
payment of the bonds of a railway company.

