OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

ing to which the relator was not a party. The right to the
computation and assessment, as well as the collection of the
tax, followed as a matter of law from the establishment of the
liability of the town for the payment of the interest which it
was agreed should be made by the assessment and collection of

the tax. An injunction against the officers before the judgment against the town was rendered cannot stand in the way
of the enforcement of the tax by the circuit court to carry its
judgment into execution.
The writ of error is dismissed as to the relators Fairbanks,
Skinner, and Thomas, and the judgment of the circuit court

awarding the mandamus in favor of Caroline C. Wetmore is
affirmed.
The cause is -remanded-withleave to modify thejudgment in
such a way as to adapt the command of the writ of mandamus to the circumstances consequent on the delay caused
by the pendency of the writ of error in this court.

EX PARTE HUNG HANG.
ORIGINAL.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

Habeas Corpus-Jurisdit&m.
Except in cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, or consuls, or
those in which a State is a party, the supreme court can only issue a writ of
habeas corpus under its appellate jurisdiction.

Application for a writ of habeas corpus.
'.Solicitor-Geaeral,Mr.AssistantAttorney-GeneralSimons
and .1&. -Hall 3fcAllister for the petitioner.
CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an application for a writ of habeas corpus for the
purpose of an inquiry into the legality of the detention of the
petitioner, Hung Hang, a subject of the Emperor of China, by
AITR.

MEATH v. PHILLIPS COUNTY.
Syllabus.

the chief of police, under a warrant for his arrest, issued by
the police judge of the city and county of San Francisco, California, for a violation of an order or ordinance of the board of
supervisors of such city and county, alleged to be in contravention of the Constitution and of a treaty of the United
States.
It has long been settled that ordinarily this court cannot issuq a writ of habeas corpus except under its appellate jurisdiction. Ex parte Bollnan & Swar.twout, 4 Cranch, 75; Eipa7-t
IFatins,7 Pet. 568; Ex parte Terger, 8 Wali. 85 ; Ex _parte
Lange, 18 Wall. 163; E _partk Parks, 93 U. S. 18; E parte
V'Frginia,100 U. S. 339; Exparte Siehold, Tb. 371.
Section 751 of the Revised Statutes, which re-enacts a similar provision in the judiciary act of 1789 (see. 14), gives this
court authority to issue the writ, but except in cases affecting
ambassadors, other public ministers, or consuls, and those in
which a State is a party, it can' only be done for a review of
the judicial decision of some inferior officer or court. This petition presents no such case.
The writ is consequently denied.

:MEATH v. PHILLIPS COUNTY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF A.REANSAS.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

Limitations.
The facts in this case showed no claim in the plaintiff against the county defendant. The claim, if any, was against the district in the county benefited
by the levees which he claims to have constructed.
It being conceded that an action at law for the enforcement of the claims set,
up in this suit was barred when this suit was brought, no equitable reason
was found why the limitation of the statute should not be applied in
equity.

.M. S. P. Walker for appellant.

