GIBSON v. BRUCE.
Arguments for Parties.

GIBSON v. BRUCE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE URITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

R7emoval of Causes.
A suit cannot be removed from a State court, under the act of 1875, unless the
requisite citizenship of the parties exists both when the suit was begun and
when the petition for removal was filed.

Mxotion to dismiss or affirm. The only point at issue was
whether the case was one which could be removed from the
State court. When the suit was brought in the State court the
appellant and the appellee were citizens of different States.
The defendant at the term of the court at which the cause
could be first tried, and before the trial thereof, moved for its
removal to the federal court, and after hearing an order of
removal was made in the State court. The plaintiff then in
the federal court moved to remand it on the ground that at
the time of the filing of the motion to remand, and at the time
of the application for removal, the plaintiff and defendant were
both citizens of the same State. The court below heard the
parties on this motion, and granted it; from which order an
appeal was taken.
-Y. T. -lcDougall,Mir. G. Hoadly, .lr. -E. . Johnson,
and .r.
. Colston for appellant, cited Insurance Company v.
Pechner, 95 U. S. 183; .Mollan v. Torrance,9 Wheaton, 537;
H olden v. Putnam Fire IiAsurance Company, 46 lN Y. 1;
Burdick v. Peterson, 6 Fed. Rep. 840; H7ouser v. Clayton, 3
Woods C. Ct. 273; Tapley v. fartin, 116 Mass. 275 ; Zaeiser
v. Illinois Central iRailroad Company, 6 Fed. Rep. 1 B
Beede v.
Cheeney, 5 Fed. Rep. 388; Rawle v. Phe ps, 9 Central Law
Journal, 46; Indianapolis,&c.,Railway Company v. Risley, 50
Ind. 64:; Frenchv. Iay, 22 Wall. 231; Dillon on Removal of
Causes, ยง 66.
Xfr. T. .. Zincoln for appellee, cited
VOL. cvi-36

fuYrray v. Holden, 1

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the CourL

McCrary's Reports, 341; Cramer v. XlTack, 12 Fed. Rep. 803;
Babbitt v. Olarke, 103 U. S. 606; Fulton v. Golden, 9 Cent.
Law Journal, 286; Scott v. Clinton, &c., Railroad Company, 6
Tiss. 529; Ames v. Colorado Central -RailroadCompany, 4 Dillon, 260; KEerting v. American Oleograph Company, 10 Fed.
Rep. 17; ffebert v. lefevre, 31 La. An. 363; The C B. & Q,
Railroad Company v. lfelch, 44 Iowa, 665; Stough v. Hatch,
16 ]3latchford, 233; .Xillerv. Zent, 60 ioward's Practice. iR.
451; Berrian.v. Chetwood, 9 Fed. Rep. 678; Traders' Bank v.
Tallmadge, 9 Fed. Rep. 363; Aldrich v. Crouch, 10 Fed. Rep.
305; lYew York Warehouse, &c., Company v. Loomis, 122 Mlass.
431.
IR. CHIEF JsTIE WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the court below decided that under the act of
March 3d, 1875, c. 137, there could not be a removal to the
Circuit Court of the United States of a suit in a State court between parties who were citizens of different States when the
suit was begun, if when the petition for removal was fied the
parties were all citizens of the same State. To reverse an order
remanding a suit on that ground, this appeal was taken.
Under the judiciary act of 1789 (see. 12), it was held, in Insurance Company v. Pechner, 95 U. S.183, that there could
not be a removal unless the necessary citizenship existed when
the suit was begun. That act provided only for a removal on
the application of the defendant when the plaintiff was a
citizen of the State in which the suit was brought, and the defendant was required to file his petition for removal at the time
of entering his appearance in the State court. Under such circumstances changes of citizenship, after the suit was begun and
before the time for applying for a removal, would not often
occur.

The act of 1875 is radically different from any which preceded it. Under that act either party may petition for removal,
and neither party need be a citizen of the State in which the
suit was brought. The material language is as follows:
"That any suit of a civil nature at law or in equity, now pend-

GIBSON v. BRUCE.
Opinion of the Court.

ing or hereafter brought in
there shall be a controversy
either party may
of the United States for the

any State court,
. in which
between citizens of different States,
remove said suit into the circuit court
proper district."

In order to obtain the removal, a petition therefor must be
ifled in the State court at or -before the term at which the cause
could be first tried, and before the trial. In the present case
the petition was not filed until nearly two years after the commencement of the suit.
The construction of the act is by no means free from doubt,
but on f ll consideration we are of opinion that the requirement of the old law, that the necessary citizenship should exist
when the suit was brought, was not abolished. We cannot believe it was intended to allow a party to deprive a State court
of the jurisdiction it has once rightfully acquired over him by
changing his citizenship after a suit is begun, and that would be
the effect of the law if the rfght of removal is made to depend
only on the citizenship existing at the time a removal is applied
for. But we are also of opinion that because of the extension
of the time for applying for a removal, and because neither
party need be a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
and either party may apply, it was the intention to provide
that the controversy should be between citizens of different
States at the time of the removal. In this way the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court of the United States will only attach
when there shall be a controversy between citizens of different
States at the time the suit is transferred, and the right to the
transfer will depend on the citizenship when the suit was begun
and when the petition for removal is fied.
We, therefore, hold that a suit cannot be removed from a
State court under the act of 187[5, unless the requisite citizenship of the parties exists both when the suit was begun and
when the petition for removal is filed.
!The orderremanding the cause is affirmed.

