OCTOBER TERMI, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

tion of the courts of the United States can attach, and then
only for the correction of the errors that have been committed.
It is not enough that in other cases decisions have been made
which, if followed in this, will be erroneous. Until the error
has actually been committed in this case, a federal question has
not become involved. The presumption in all cases is that the
courts of the States will do what the Constitution and laws of

the United States require, and removals cannot be effected to
the courts of the United States because of fear that they will
not.
The order remanding the cause is aefrmed.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILROAD CO. v. SOUTHERN EXPRESS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN

DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Decided January 29th, 1883.

Appeal-quity-Final -Decree-SupplementalOrder.
1. A decree is final, for the purposes of appeal, when it terminates the litigation between the parties on the merits, and leaves nothing to be done
but enforce by execution what has been determined.
2. Matters relating to the administration of the cause, and accounts to be settled in accordance with the principles fixed by the decree are incidents of
the main litigation which may be settled by supplemental order after
final decree.

Motion to dismiss an appeal. The facts necessary for understanding the merits of the motion are stated thus by the court.
The Southern Express Company, an express carrier, filed its
bill in equity against the St. Louis. Iron Mountain & Southern
Railway Company, in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, to enjoin the railway company from interfering with or disturbing the express company in the enjoyment
of the facilities it then had for the transaction of its express
business over the railway company's railroad, so long as the

ST. L., I. M. & S. R. R. CO. v. SOUTHERN EX. CO.

25

Statement of Facts.

express company conformed to the regulations of the railway
company and paid all lawful charges for the business. A preliminary injunction was asked for, and, in this connection, the
bill prayed that if any dispute or disagreement should arise between the parties during the pendency of the suit, upon the
question of compensation to be paid for transportation, the express company might be permitted to bring the same before the
court for decision by way of an interlocutory application. On the
filing of the bill the preliminary injunction was granted, which
was afterwards modified in some particulars affecting the compensation to be paid and the mode of doing the business.
On the 25th of March, 1882, the court entered a decree containing the following provisions:
"V.-That it is the duty of the defendant to carry the express
matter of the plaintiff's company, and the messengers or agents
in charge thereof, at a just and reasonable rate of compensation,
and that such rate of compensation is to be found and established
as a unit, and is to include as well the transportation of such
messengers or agents as of the express matter in their custody
and under their control.
"X.-Whereas it is alleged by complainant that since the
commencement of this suit and the service of the preliminary
order of injunction herein, the defendant has, in violation of said
injunction and of the rights of complainant, made unjust discriminations against complainant, and has charged complainant unjust
and unreasonable rates for carrying express matter, therefore it is
ordered that complainant have leave hereafter to apply for an,
investigation of these and similar allegations, and for such order

with respect thereto as the facts, when ascertained, may justify,
and for the appointment of a mastei to take proof and report
there on.
"XI.-That the defendant, its officers, agents, servants, and
employees, and all persons acting under their authority, be, and
they hereby are, permanently and perpetually enjoined and restrained from interfering with or disturbing in any manner the
enjoyment by the plaintiff of the facilities provided for in this
decree, to be accorded to it by the said defendant upon its lines
of railway, or such as have been heretofore accorded to it for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.
transaction of the business of the plaintiff and of the express business of the public confided to its care, and from interfering with
any of the express matter or messengers of the plaintiff, and from
excluding or ejecting any of its express matter or messengers
from the depots, trains, cars, or lines of the said defendant as the
same are by this decree directed to be permitted to be enjoyed
and occupied by the said plaintiff, and from refusing to receive
and transport in like manner as the said defendant is now transporting, or as it may hereafter transport for itself or for any
other express company over its lines of railway, the express matter and messengers of the said plaintiff, and from interfering with
or disturbing the business of the said plaintiff in any manner
whatsoever, the said plaintiff paying for the services performed
for it by the defendant monthly, as herein prescribed, at a rate
not exceeding fifty per centum more than its prescribed rates for
the transportation of ordinary freight, and not exceeding the rate
at which it may itself transport express matter on its own account
or for any other express or other corporation, or for private individuals, reserving to either party a right, at any time hereafter,
to apply to this court, according to the rules in equity proceedings, for a modification of this decree as to the measure of compensation herein prescribed.
"It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the defendant pay the costs to be taxed herein, and that an execution or a
fee bill issue therefor."
On the 29th of March, the railway company prayed an appeal, which was allowed, and on the 15th of May perfected
by the approval of the necessary bond. During the same term
of the court, but after the appeal bond was accepted and approved, the express company moved the court to grant it the
benefit of a reference authorized by sections V. and X. of the
decree, and a master was appointed to inquire into and report
on the matters alleged.
The cause having been duly docketed here, the express company moved to dismiss the appeal, on the ground that the decree
appealed from was not a final decree.
-&. Jo
_ Dillo and Xr. Tager Swayne filed a brief for
the railroad company, citing Ray v. _Law, 1 Cranch 0. C. 349 ;

ST. L., I M. & S. R. R. CO. v. SOUTHERN EX. CO.

27

Briefs of Parties.

Fogay v. Conrad,6 How. 201; Thomson v. Dean, 7 Wall.
342; .Frenchv. Shoemaker, 12 Wall. 86, 98; Stovall v. Banks,
10 Wall. 583, 587; 2 Daniel's Chancery Practice, 641; .fills
v. HZoag, 7 Paige, 19.
. r..Broadheadand j.r. Hwussler ified a brief for the same,
citing in addition Barnard v. Gibson, 7 How., 650, 657;
Tiiting v. Bank of the United States, .13 Pet. 6, 15; Railroad
Company v. Swasey, 23 Wall. 405; Green v. Fisk, 103 U. S.
518; Bostwick v. Brinkerhof, 106 T. S. 3; Bronson v. Railroad Company, 2 Black, 524, 531.
-T.
Glover, .ff. Shepley, .Y. S .
Breckenridge, -3[r.
Clarence A. Seward, and .Wr. F. E
hiTM/eld fied briefs for
the motion, contending, I. The appeal is a matter of statutory
right, and in equity lies from'final decrees only, Rev. St. ยง 692,
and the court can proceed only as the law prescribes. Barry
v. -3fercein,5 Howard, 103, 119 ; .Durousseauv. United States, 6
Cranch, 307, 314; United States v. Curry, 6 How. 106, 113; Exe
parte Tallandingham,1 Wall. 243, 251; United States v.
Young, 94 U. S. 258. I. The motion may properly be made
at this time. Clark v. Hancock, 94 U. S. 493; Ex _parte Russell,
13 Wall. 664, 671; Vational Bank v. Insurance Company,100
U. S. 43.
I1. The motion is based upon the record, and in
part upon certificates of the clerk of the court below, which show
that proceedings have been taken in the court below since the decree appealed from. The court should receive these in support
of the motion. Hudgins v.
emp, 18 How. 530, 534; Ex
parte Bradstreet,7 Pet. 634; Rush v. Parker,5 Cranch, 287;
Richmond v. Afilwaukee, 21 How. 391; The Grace Girdler,
6 Wall. 441; Cook v. i3ofatt, 5 How. 295; Lord v. Veazie, 8
How. 251; Ceve~and v. -Chamberlain, 1 Black, 419; Wood
Paper Company v. Heft, 8 Wall. 333; United States v. Ti7e
Peggy, 1 Cranch, 103; PortlandCompany v. United States, 15
Wall. 1; Selma, &c.,Railroad Company v. Bank, 94 U. S. 253;
United States v. Ayres, 9 Wall. 608; United States v. Crussell,
12 Wall. 175; United States v. Young, 94 U. S. 258. IV. They
show that the decree appealed from was not final. The pleadings presented two issues, 1st. Whether the railways were

OCTOBER TERMI, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

obliged to do the transportation; 2d. What was a reasonable
compensation for it. The first only was decided by the decree
appealed from. The second was also a question of law. Uion,
Company v. United States, 10-4 U. S. 667.

What is and what

is not a final judgment is discussed in Young v. Grundy, 6
Cranch, 51; -Houston,v. ufoore, 3 Wheat. 433; Gibbons v. Ogden, 6 id. 448; The Palmyra,10 id. 502; Thie Santa laria,10
id. 431,444; C ace v. Vasjuez, 11 id. 429 ; Canter v. American
Insu'ance Company, 3 Peters, 307; Brown v. Swan, 9 id. 1;

Young v. Smith, 15 id. 287; PForgay v. Conrad,6 How. 201;
Perkins v. Fourniquet,6 id. 206; Pulliam v. Christian,6 id.
209; Barnard v. Gibson, 7 id. 650; United States v. Girault,
11 id. 22, 32; Fourniquet v. Perkins, 16 id. 82; Craighead v.
Wilson, 18 id. 199; Beebe v. Russell, 19 id. 283; Fyarrellyv. WVoodfolk, 19 id. 288; ]luniston v. Sfainthoi2), 2 Wall. 106; Thomson v. Dear, 7 id. 342; Railroad 06ompany v. Swasey, 23 id.

405. These cases show that the policy of the law and the
decisions of the court are alike adverse to fragmentary appeals.
The practice in patent cases may be referred to. V. The
decree appealed from was pronounced at the March term of
court in 1882. In June, 1882, at the same term, a further decree was made modifying the decree appealed from. This being done at the same term of court, was done while the court
had control of the case, Railroad Company v. Bradleys, 7 Wall.
575 ; Bassett v. United States, 9 Wall. 38; Ex partk Lange, 18
Wall. 163; Bronson v. Skulten, 104 U. S. 410, 415, and oper-

ated to reopen the previous decree, and let in proof material
to the issues, and requiring further action of the court.
MR. CHIEF

TUSTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts in the language above cited, he con-

tinued:
As we have had occasion to say at the present term, in Bost'wick v. Brinherhof,106 U. S. 3, and Grant v. Phonix Insurance
Company, 106 U. S. 429, a decree is final, for the purposes of
an appeal to this court, when it terminates the litigation
between the parties on the merits of the case, and leaves nothing to be done but to enforce by execution what has been

ST. L., I. M. & S. R. R. CO. v. SOUTHERN EX. CO.

29

Opinion of the Court.

determined. Under this rule we think the present decree is
final. The suit was brought to compel the railway company
to do the express company's business. The controversy was
about the right of the express company to require this to be
done on the paymeiit of lawful charges. It was no part of the
object of the suit to have it definitely settled what these
charges should b6 for all time. The point was to establish the
liability of the railway company to carry. The decree requires
the carriage, and fixes the compensation to be paid. It adjudges costs against the railway company, and awards execution. Nothing more remains to be done by the court to dispose of the case. Inasmuch as the rates properly chargeable
for transportation vary according to circumstances, and what
was reasonable when the decree was rendered may not always
coutinue to be so, leave is given the parties to apply for a modification of what has been ordered in that particular if they, or
either of them, shall desire to do so. In effect the decree
requires the railway company to carry for reasonable rates,
and fixes for the time being the maximum of what will be
reasonable.
The controversy which the express company hashad referred
to the master, about the compensation to be paid for'the transportation during the pendency of the suit, does not enter into
the merits of the case. All such matters relate to the administration of the cafise, and the accounts to be settled under the
present order are of the same general character as those of a
receiver who holds property awaiting the final disposition of a
suit. They are incidents of the main litigation, but not necessarily a part of it. The supplemental order, made after the
decree, relates only to the settlement of the accounts which accrued pending the suit.
The motion to dismiss is denied.

