WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

$29,000, depreciationin the value of bonds, and $5,225, depreciation in the value of cotton-press stock, together With
such other sums included in the items of $51,155.44, depreciationin book accounts and choses in action, and $106,014.62, depreciationin value of the streetconnection track,as,
uponfurther hearing, shall be found to represent losses accruing to the company between July 1st, 1864, and iLrovember 30th, 1869, and to render judgment only for such an
amount of tax as shall appear to be due upon that basis.

WRIGHT & Others v. UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Decided April 16th, 1883.

InternalRevenue-Statutes.
When an indorsement is made upon a distiller's bond, "We hereby accept the
within survey and consider the same as binding upon us on and after this
date," which is signed by theobligees in the bond, the parties thereby waive
the delivery of a copy of the survey, and the difference between the capacity
of the still and the returns of production may be recovered in a suit on the
bond.

Suit upon a distiller's bond to recover internal revenue tax.
X2r. 1R. .tocP. Smith, for plaintiff in error.
.r. Assistant Attorney-General Xlaury for United States.
MRii. CHIEF XISTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action on a distiller's bond, to recover the difference between taxes assessed according to the producing capacity of the distillery and those calculated on the reports of
production. The defence was that a copy of the official survey
had not been served on the distillers. Section 3264 of the Revised Statutes provides for a survey of the distillery by the collector and a written report thereof in triplicate, " of which one
copy shall be delivered to the distiller, one copy shall be re-

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Syllabus.

tamned by the collector, and one copy shall be transmitted to
the commissioner of internal revenue, and the survey shall take
effect upon the delivery of such copy to the distiller." In Peabody v. Sta'rk, 16 Wall. 240, it was held, following the rulings of
the commissioner of internal revenue, that the distiller was not
liable for the capacity tax until a copy of the survey had been
delivered to him.
In the present case it appeared that no copy of the survey
had ever been delivered to the distillers, but when the bond
sued on was executed the distillers signed the following indorsement, written on the report of- the survey which had been
made: "We hereby accept the within survey, and consider the
same as binding upon us on and after this date, September 12th,
1873. John B. Wright. Thomas Tucker." The court below
decided that this indorsement was in law a waiver of a delivery
of a copy of the report to the distillers, and that the tax was
consequently collectible. To this we agree. The language of
the act is that "the survey shall take effect upon the delivery
of such copy to the distiller." This is equivalent to saying that
the survey shall be binding on the distiller when the copy is delivered to him. When, therefore, the distiller in this case accepted the survey and stipulated that it was binding on him, he
in effect said that he would consider the survey as having effect
without the formal delivery of a copy. This he might do.
Thejudmwnt isa~ffl-nmed.

LEWIS v. CITY OF SHREVEPORT.
N, ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Decided April 16th, 1883.

MAunicipal Bonds-.Aunicipal Corporations-Ratification.
1. Ottawa v. Cary, ante, 110, reaffirmed.
2. Unless power has been given by the legislature to a municipal corporation
to grant pecuniary aid to railroad corporations, bonds issued for that pur-

