OCTOBER TERAI, 1882.
Syllabus.

axe works of art of as high a gTade as those exectfted by the
same hand from original models of modern sculptors.
The instructions of the Treasury Department (pursuant to
which these duties were imposed) and the argument for the appellant proceed upon the ground that the statues were made
by men not really professional sculptors, though calling themselves such, and were not real works of art, but mere manufactures of marble by good artisans. If this court were at
liberty to consider the testimony sent up with the record, it
might perhaps not reach the conclusion at which the jury have
arrived. But the insurmountable difficulty in the way of the
appellant is that by the special verdict the jury have found in
the most explicit terms that all these statues were executed in
the studio of a professional sculptor, and under his direction, by
two other professional sculptors. These facts being conclusively settled by that verdict, the law requires that the
Judgment be affirmed.

HOWARD COUNTY v. BOONEVILLE CENTRAL
NATIONAL BANK.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Decided April 23d, 1883.

.3unicipaz Beods-airoads.
When an act of the legislature authorized a county to subscribe for stock in a
railroad or its branches, and the inhabitants of the county at legally convened meetings voted to exercise the power thus conferred, and the subscription was made, and county bonds issued therefor and exchanged for
stock in a branch of the railroad for which the subscription was made, and
the county, for a series of years, paid the interest on the bonds, and then
resisted payment solely on the ground that the road constructed was not the
road to whose stock the statute authorized the county to subscribe : Teld,
On the special finding found at the trial below, that the road is one of the
branches for which the act authorized counties to subscribe.

Action to recover on coupons of bonds issued by the county

HOWARD CO. v. BOONEVILLE CEN.NAT. BANK. 315
Opinion of the Court.
in payment for subscriptions to the stock of the Tebo & Neosho
Railroad Company. The only controversy was whether the
road as constructed was the road for whose stock the county
was authorized to subscribe.
MXr. John 1 Stevenson for plaintiff in error.
.Xr. W . Tilliam8 for defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company was authorized by
its charter to construct and operate a railroad from some point
on the Pacific Railroad, between the west bank of the Laramie
River and Muddy Creek, in Pettis county, in a southerly or
southwesterly direction through Henry county, to some point
on the State line between the northwest corner of Jasper and
the southeast corner of McDonald county. It was also expressly authorized "to extend branchrailroads into and through
any counties that the directors may deem advisable." For the
purpose of aiding in the construction by that company of a
road from the junction of the main line with the Pacific Railroad, extending in a northeasterly direction, to Booneville,
through the county of Howard, the county court of that
county, in its behalf and after a favorable vote by the people,
made a subscription to the capital stock of the company, and
issued county bonds thdrefor. One-half of the bonds were sold
by the county and the proceeds paid to the company, while the
remainder were delivered in full payment of the balance due on
the subscription. The subscription was made and bonds issued,
in pursuance of a provision in the company's charter which
made it
MlvR. JusTio, HARLAw

"lawful for the county court of any county in which any part of
the railroad or branches may be, or any county adjacent thereto,
and for
..
to subscribe to the stock of said company. ....
the stock subscribed in behalf of the county may issue the bonds
of the county to raise the funds to pay the same, and to take
proper steps to protect the interest and credit of the county
court, may appoint an agent to represent the county, vote for it,
and receive its dividends." Act of January 16th, 1860, §§ 6 and

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.
8; act of November 21st, 1857, charter of Osage Valley &
Southern Kansas Railroad Company, Laws of Mo., 1857, adjourned
session, p. 62.
The railroad was constructed through Howard county as
proposed, and has been in operation ever since. The county
court levied and collected a tax to pay the interest on the bonds
for seven years, regularly paid the semi-annual interest until
March, 1878, redeemed a number of the bonds, voted the
county's stock at several meetings of stockholders, and when,
in 1874, the road so constructed northeasterly through Howard
county was sold to the Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railroad
Company, the county received 4,000 shares of the stock of the
latter company in exchange for its stock in the Tebo & Neosho
Railroad Company. Counsel for the defendant in error states
that the county sold its stock in the Missouri, Kansas & Texas
Railroad Company for $140,000. But no such fact appears in
the findings. But it does appear that the county, when the
case was tried below, still held that stock.
And now it is contended in behalf of the county-and no
other question is presented for determination-that there was
no legal authority for this subscription or issue of bonds. The
argument in its behalf is that the main road of the company
was established on a line south of the Pacific Railroad; that
Howard county could not, by subscription, aid in the construction of the main line; and could not, by subscription, aid in the
construction of a road from the junction of the main line northeasterly through that county, because such a road would not
be a branch road, but only an unauthorized extension of the
main line.
We are of opinion that the road constructed through Howard
county was, within the meaning of the statute, a branch of the
original or main line. The defence cannot be sustained.
The judgment is afirmed.

