OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

MISSOURI, KANSAS AND TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY v. DINSMORE, President.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF YAX'AL.SAS.
Decided January 29th, 1883.

Appea--Certlficate of Trnscript--Certiorari-FinaDecree-Jursdiction.
1. On the merits of the motion there is no essential difference between this
case and the case of the St. Louis, Iron 3lountain and Southern R. R.
Co. v. The Southern IExpress Company, just decided. Reference to the
master to take and state an account between the parties as to the compensation during the litigation and up to its final termination relates to
matters of administration not involving the merits.
2. A certificate that the transcript is a "' true, full and perfect copy from the
record of all the proceedings in the suit" is sufficient to give jurisdiction.
3. If the certificate is not correct, the remedy is by certiorari.
4. Where on the face of the decree it appears that a case was disposed of on
demurrer to the bill, the evidence on Me is not necessary for the hearing
of the bill.
5. When a record has not been printed, and parties do not agree as to its contents, certiorari may be granted, reserving all questions till return.

:Motion .by appellees to dismiss the appeal; and, in case of
denial of this motion, for certiorari to bring up record and
proofs from below.

.'. Clarence A. Seward, Jfr. . IFJ Blair and -Yr. F .
t7di(field for the motion.
_37r. A. T. Britton, X. ,T Y 2.[Gowan, Jr. f7Tomas J
Portis, Jfr. A. 1. Williams and ilL'. A. . -Dillon, against it.
r E delivered the opinion of the court.
This motion to dismiss is made because, as is alleged, 1, the
decree appealed from is not a final decree, and, 2, the transcript
is not properly certified.
1. As to the decree.
The case is in some particulars different from that of the St.
oUis, I'on .fountain c Sout]tern Ri ailway Company v. Tle
Southrn Eeyress Company, just decided, but in our opinion
the differences do not materially affect the present question.
MRah. CHIEF JUSTICE W

MO. KANSAS & TEXAS R. R. 00. v. DINSMORE.

31

Opinion of the Court.
The decree in this case, as in that, requires the railway company to carry for the express company, and fixes the rate of
compensation, "until the further order or decree of this [circuit]
court." In this case, the reference to the master "to take and
state an account between the parties as to the compensation
that should be and has been paid during the litigation, and up
'to the final termination thereof," was entered before or at the
time of the decree from which the appeal was taken. Still, in
this, as in that, the reference is in respect to matters affecting
the administration of the cause, and does not involve the
merits. The reservation of power to change the rates operates
only on the future, and was evidently intended for the purpose
of enabling the court to act in case a change should be required.
As the decree stands, the express company can require the railway company to carry at the rate which has been fixed.
2. As to the certificate.
The clerk certifies the transcript sent up to be "a true, fall
and perfect copy from the record of all the proceedings in the
suit." Certainly this is sufficient for all the purposes of jurisdiction. If, in point of fact, the certificate is- not true, the
remedy is by certiorari, to supply deficiencies, and not by
motion to dismiss.
To meet this view of the case the appellee suggests diminution and asks for a certiora'i,to bring up "the evidence taken
before . . . William H. Rossington, as examiner,
remaining on file in the office of the clerk, constituting e khibits,
depositions, and proofs used on the argument of the cause in
the
.
circuit court."
Upon the face of the decree it appears that the case was disposed of on demurrer to the bill. If that be the truth, the evidence on fie is not necessary for the hearing of the appeal, but
as the record, which is here, has not been printed in full, and
the parties do not agree in their statements as to what it contains, we will grant the certiorari asked for, reserving all
further questions until the retrn is made.

