OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

is shown why the limitation of the statute should not be
applied. Without, therefore, considering any other objection
to the bill and the relief that is asked, we hold that the
suit, so far as it seeks to have the tax imposed by the county
court, is barred by lapse of time.
T[' decree of the circuit court is affirmed.

EX PAIRTE TOM TOING.
ON

CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Decided May 7th, 1883.

HUabeas Corpus-Jurisdiction-Proceedings
Civil and Criminal-Practice.
The proceedings under a petition for habeas corpus are in their nature civil
proceedings, even when instituted to arrest a criminal prosecution and secure personal freedom : and the appellate revisory jurisdiction of this
court is governed by the statutes regulating civil proceedings.
As the statute authorizes a certificate of division of opinion between judges
sitting in circuit only after final judgment in civil proceedings, the court
cannot take jurisdiction under a certificate by which it appears that there
was a difference in opinion between the judges as to the points certified,
without entry of final judgment.

The petitioner was proceeded against criminally in the police
court of San Francisco for a misdemeanor in unlawfully establishing, maintaining and carrying on the business of a public
laundry. Being restrained of his liberty under this process, he
applied to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of California, for a writ of habeas corpus. The judges

certified a difference of opinion upon the following questions.
At the hearing of said case at the present term of this court
upon the said papers and record there occurred as questions, arising on said record :
"1. Whether upon the facts stated in the petition filed in this
case a writ of habeas corpus ought to have been issued by this
court according to the prayer of said petition ?

EX PARTE TOM TONG.
Argument for Petitioner.
"c2. Whether upon the facts stated in the petition, and in the
return to the writ issued herein, said petitioner ought to be discharged from custody ?
"3. Whether, assuming said ordinance set out in the petition
herein to be void, the petitioner is ' in custody in violation of the
Constitution, or of a law or treaty of the United States,' within
the meaning of section 753 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, and whether he ought to be discharged on that ground?
"4. Whether, assuming said ordinance to be void, the court is
forbidden to discharge-the petitioner by the provisions of section
753 of the Revised Statutes of the United States ?
"15. Whether the ordinance set out in the petition in this case
is void on the ground that it does not fix any terms or conditions
upon complying with which the petitioner and others similarly
situated are entitled, absolutely, to a license to pursue their calling,
but still leaves it in the discretion of the board of supervisors to
pass, or refuse to pass, a resolution granting a permit, or authorizing
the issue of a license, the ordinance only allowing the board of supervisors to pass a resolution granting such permit, or authorizing
the issue of a license in its discretion, after the applicant has performed all the conditions prescribed by said ordinance, without
making it obligatory upon the board to pass such resolution?
"16. Whether the ordinance set out in the petition is void on
the ground that it is unreasonable in its requirements, or upon
any other ground apparent upon the face of the ordinance or appearing in the petition and return, or in the record herein ?"

-r. Hall .fcAllister for the petitioner argued the merits of
the case, but as it turned on a question of jurisdiction, his
position on this point only is presented.
Section 53 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
provides that: "The writ of habeas coTws shall in no case extend to a prisoner in jail unless where he is in custody under or
by color of the authority of the United States, or is committed
for trial before some court thereof ; or is in custody for an act
done or committed, in pursuance of a law of the United States,
or of an order, process, or decree of a court or judge thereof;
or is in custody in violation of the Constitution or of a law or
treaty of the United States; or, being a subject or a citizen of

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

a foreign State and domiciled therein, is in custody for an act
done or committed under an alleged right, title, authority,
privilege, protection or exemption, claimed under the commission, or order, or sanction of any foreign State, or under color
thereof, the validity and effect whereof depend upon the law of
nations, or unless it is necessary to bring the prisoner into court
to testify." The portion of the language of this section, under
which jurisdiction of the circuit court to award the writ is
claimed, is in these words: "Or is in custody in violation of the
Constitution, or of a law or treaty of the United States." The
contention upon this point is, that subjects of the Emperor of
China in California, under the Constitution of the United States
and the provisions of the Burlingame Treaty, to which the
attention of the court has already been called, are guaranteed
the right to pursue all lawful vocations in a lawful manner, and
that the ordinance in question and the judicial proceedings
founded thereon, are in invasion of the rights thus secured, redress for which may legally be had on writ of habeas coy~us
awarded by the circuit court. Ex parte Bridgev, 2 Woods C.
C. 428; In re TFong Yang Quy, 6 Sawyer, 237 ; Ex parte
Tfuner, 3 Woods C. C. R. 603.
.Xlr. . D.
.

atmer opposing.

M,P. C IIEF JrsTic WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of habeas corpus sued out of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of California by the petitioner, Tom Tong, a subject of the Emperor of China, for the
purpose of an inquiry into the legality of his detention by the
chief of police of the city and county of San Francisco, for an
alleged violation of an order or ordinance of the board of supervisors of such city and county regulating the licensing, &c.,
of public laundries, and the case comes here, before judgment
below, on a certificate of division of opinion between the judges
holding the court as to certain questions which arose at the
hearing. The allegation in the petition is that the order, for
the violation of which the petitioner is held, is in contravention
of the Constitution of the United States and of a treaty between the United States and the Emperor of China.

EX PARTE TOM TONG.
Opinion of the Court.

A question which meets us at the outset is whether we have
jurisdiction, and that depends on whether the proceeding is to
be treated as civil or criminal. Section 650 of the Revised
Statutes provides that whenever, in any civil suit or proceeding in a circuit court, there occurs a difference of opinion between the judges holding the court as to any matter to be
decided, ruled, or ordered, the opinion of the presiding judge
shall prevail and be considered the opinion of the court for the
time being; and section 652, that when final judgment or decree is rendered, the points of disagreement shall be certified
and entered of record under the direction of the judges. That
being done, the judgment or decree may, under the provisions
of section 693, be brought here for review by writ of error or
appeal, as the case may be.
By section 651 it is provided that whenever any question occurs on the trial or hearing of any criminal proceeding before
a circuit court, and the judges are divided in opinion, the point
on which they disagree shall, during the same term, upon the
request of either party, or of their counsel, be stated under the
direction of the judges, and certified under the seal of the court
to this court at its next session.
It follows, from these provisions of the statutes, that, if this
is a civil suit or proceeding, we have no jurisdiction, as there
has been no final judgment in the circuit court, but, if it is a
criminal proceeding, we have.
The writ of habeas corpus is the remedy which the ]aw gives
for the enforcement of the civil right of personal liberty. Resort to it sometimes becomes necessary, because of what is done
to enforce laws for the punishment of crimes, but the judicial
proceeding under it is not to inquire into the criminal act
which is complained of, but into the right to liberty notwithstanding the act. Proceedings to enforce civil rights are civil
proceedings, and proceedings for the punishment of crimes are
criminal proceedings. In the present case the petitioner is held
under criminal process. The prosecution against him is a
criminal prosecution, but the writ of habeas corpus which
he has obtained is not a proceeding in that prosecution. On
the contrary, it is a new suit brought by him to enforce a civil

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

right, which he claims, as against those who are holding him
in custody, under the criminal process. If he fails to establish
his right to his liberty, he may be detained for trial for the
offence; but if he succeeds he must be discharged from custody.
The porceeding is one instituted by himself for his liberty, not
by the government to punish him for his crime. This petitioner
claims that the Constitution and a treaty of the United States
give him the right to his liberty, notwithstanding the charge
that has been made against him, and he has obtained judicial
process to enforce that right. Such a proceeding on his part
is, in our opinion, a civil proceeding, notwithstanding his object
is, by means of it, to get released from custody under a criminal
prosecution. It was said by Chief Justice Marshall, speaking
for the court, as long ago as Ex~parte Bollman & Swartwout,

4 Cranch, 75-101:
"The question whether the individual shall be imprisoned is
always distinct from the question whether he shall be convicted
or acquitted of the charge on which he is to be tried, and therefore these questions are separated, and may be decided in different
courts."
The questions that may be certified to us on a division of
opinion before judgment are those which occur on the trial or
hearing of a criminal proceeding before a circuit court. It
follows that we cannot take jurisdiction of the case in its present
form, and it is consequently
_Remamvided to the circuitcourtfor furtherproceedings according to law.

