CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. CUSHMAN. 51
Syllabus.

Dunbar to Prout was recorded on June 23d, 1818, was proved
by competent evidence, and that it therefore follows that the
title of the plaintiffs was better and superior to that of defendants, who claimed under a deed for the samelands not recorded
until June 18th, 1870, more than fifty years after its date, and
long after innocent purchasers had bought the lands and paid a
valuable consideration for them.
The plaintiff in error contends that the act of 1837, supra,
cannot apply in this case, because at its date the lands in question were no longer within the limits of Madison County,-but in
the'county of Putnam. But the act expressly declares that it
shall apply to writings theretofore as well as those thereafter
admitted to record. The deed of Dunbar to Prout was recorded under the act of 1807, supra,which required it to be
recorded in the county where the lands conveyed were situated.
It was so recorded. No law of Illinois since passed has required any other registration of deeds by the parties thereto, or
has changed the effect of the original registration. See act of
February 27th, 1841 ; Adams & Durham's iReal Estate Statutes,
vol. 1, pp. 93, 94.
The view we have taken of the case renders it unnecessary to
notice certain questions of local practice argued by counsel.
We find no error in the record of the circuit court.
Judgment fflf7"med.

CONNECTICUT
I=UTUAL
IFE INSURANCE COXPANY v. OUSEMIAN and Another.
APPEAL FROM THE

cIRcIr COURT OF THE UNTED STATES FOR THE

XORTHERN DISTEICT OF ILLINOIS.

Conflict of Laws-ConstitutionalLaw-Contract--Intrest-forgage-e&m.plion-Statutes of llinois.
The statutes of Illinois

relating to the redemption of mortgaged property f om
sales under decree of the federal courts, examined.
While the local law, giving the right of redemption first to the mortgagor,
then to judgment creditors, is a rule of property obligatory upon the federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.
court, it is competent for the latter by rules to prescribe the mode in which
redemption from sales under its own decrees may be effected.
The rule in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Illinois, requiring a judgment creditor to pay the redemption money to the
clerk of that court, and not to the officer holding the execution, sustained
as being within the domain of practice, and not affecting the substantial
right to redeem within the time fixed by the local statute.
The Illinois statute of 1879, entitling the purchaser in case of redemption to receive interest upon his bid at the rate of eight per cent. per annum (the
previous law prescribing ten per cent.), is applicable to all decretal sales of
mortgaged premises thereafter made, although the mortgage was given
before the passage of that statute. Such reduction in the rate of interest
did not impair the obligation of the contract between mortgagor and mortgagee, because the amendatory statute did not diminish the duty of the
mortgagor to pay what he agreed to pay, or shorten the period of payment,
or affect any remedy which the mortgagee had, by existing law, for the
enforcement of his contract.
The purchaser at decretal sale is entitled to interest at the rate prescribed by
statute when he purchased.
The amendatory statute operated proprio
vigore, to change the rule of court previously fixing the rate at ten per cent.
The existing laws with reference to which the mortgagor and mortgagee must
be assumed to have contracted are those only which in their direct or necessary legal operation controlled or affected the obligations of their contract.

Bill for foreclosure of a mortgage: decree of foreclosure:

demand to redeem and tender of payment: petition of the
plaintiff, purchaser at the foreclosure sale, for a master's deed:
denial of that petition; and an appeal from that denial.
The property involved in this suit was certain real estate in
the city of Chicago, covered by a mortgage, executed January
29th, 1880, by W. I. W. Cushman and wife to secure the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company in the payment of
$75,000, five years thereafter, with interest payable semi-annually, at the rate of nine per cent. per annum. It was thereafter
conveyed, subject to that mortgage, to one W. H. Cushman.
The local law, in force when the mortgage was given, provided that upon a sale of lands or tenements under execution,
the officer should give to the purchaser a certificate showing
the property purchased, the sum paid therefor, or, if the plaintiff was the purchaser, the amount of his bid and the time when
the purchaser (unless the property be redeemed as provided in
the statute) would be entitled to a deed. A duplicate of such
certificate, signed by the officer, was required to be filed by him

CONNECTICUT MtUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. CUSHMAN. 53
Statement of Facts.

in the office of the county recorder within ten days from the
sale. Within twelve months from sale, the defendant, his heirs,
executors, administrators, or grantees could redeem by paying
the purchaser, or the officer for his benefit, the sum bid by the
former, with interest thereon at the rate of tem per cent. per
annum from date of sale. Whereupon the sale and certificate
became null and void. After the expiration of twelve, and at
any time before the expiration of fifteen months from the sale,
a judgment creditor (even one who became such after the expiration of twelve months from the sale, could redeem by suing
out execution, placing the same in the hands of the proper
officer (whose duty was to indorse thereon a levy upon the
property to be redeemed, and by paying to suvA oficer, for the
use of the purchaser, his executors, administrators, or assigns,
the amount for which the premises were sold, with interest at
the rate of en per cent. per annum from the date of sale. The
officer, havihg fied in the county recorder's office a certificate
of the redemption by such judgment creditor, was required to
advertise and offer the property for sale under the execution.
The judgment creditor, thus redeeming the property, was considered as having bid at the execution sale the amount of the
redemption money paid by him with interest from the date of
redemption to the day, of sale. If no larger bid was offerea,
the property was to be struck off and sold to such judgment
creditor, who became entitled to a deed.
The statute provided that the whole or part of any lands sold
under execution could be redeemed by a judgment creditor in
the like distinct quantities or parcels in which the same were
sold; also, if there be no redemption within the time prescribed,
that the purchaser was entitled to a deed; further, that "lands
sold under and by virtue of any decree of a court of equity for
the sale of mortgaged lands" might be redeemed by the mortgagor, his heirs, executors, administrators, or grantees, and by
judgment creditors, in the same manner as was prescribed for
the redemption by such parties, respectively, of lands sold
under executions at law.
By a subsequent act the foregoing statutes were amended, so
as to require the party redeeming to pay the amount going to

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Statement of Facts.

the purchaser, with interest at only eight per cent. per annum.
This act continued in force till after July 1st, 1879.
After the passage of this act the rules of the circuit court
relating to redemption were amended so as to read as follows:
" Ordered,That the following rules be entered in regard to the
redemption of property from sales under decrees in chancery in
this court :
"First. That whenever any real estate is sold by a master in
chancery, special commissioner, or other officer of this court, by
virtue of any decree of foreclosure of mortgage or vendor's lien,
or mechanics' lien, or for the payment of money, the master in
chancery, or officer making such sale, shall, instead of executing
a deed for the property so sold, give to the purchaser a certificate
describing the premises purchased by him, showing the amount
paid therefor, or, if purchased by the complainant, in whose favor
the decree is made, the amount of his bid, and that such purchaser will be entitled to a deed of the property so purchased, on
the expiration of fifteen months from the date of said sale, unless
said property shall have been duly redeemed.
"1Second. It shall be the duty of the master in chancery, or
other officer making such sale, to report the same to the court
within ten days from the day of the making thereof, unless time
for filing said report shall be extended by the court, which report
shall be confirmed as a matter of course, unless objections to said
sale are filed within twenty days after said report is required to
be filed.
" Third. Any defendant in the suit in which such decree is
rendered, his heirs, administrators, or assigns, or any person interested through or under the defendant in the premises so sold,
may, within twelve months from said sale, redeem the real estate
so sold bypaying to the purchaserthereof,his heirs, executors, or
assigns, or to the clerk of this court for the benefit of such purchaser, his executors, administrators, or assigns, the sum of money
for which said premises were sold or bid off, with interest at the
rate of ten per cent. per annum from the date of such sale, and
in case such redemption is made by payment of the money to the
clerk, the person so redeeming shall also pay an additional sum
of one per cent. on the amount so paid in as the clerk's fee for
receiving and disbursing said redemption, and the clerk on re-

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. CUSEtIAN. 55
Statement of Facts.
ceiving said redemption money shall at once aeposit the same in
the registry of this court, and file a certificate among the papers
in the cause in which said decree was entered, stating that said
real estate has been redeemed.
" Fourth. If property sold under any decree of this court shall
not be redeemed by the defendant or defendants in the decree,
or some persons claiming by, through or under him or them,
within twelve months from the date of said sale, then any creditor of the debtor defendant or defendants in such decree, who
holds a decree or judgment in full force, and on which he is entitled to execution against such debtor defendant or defendants,
may redeem said property after the expiration of twelve months
and before the expiration of fifteen months, in the following
manner: Such creditor shall sue out an execution on his decree
or judgment, and place the same in the hands of the proper officer'to execute, who shall thereupon indorse on such execution a
levy on the property which is to be redeemed, and thereupon
the person desiring to make such redemption shall pay to the
holder of such certificate, or to the clerk of this court, the
amount for which the premises to be redeemed were sold, with
interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum from the date of
such sale, and if the redemption is made by the payment of the
money to the clerk, there shall also be paid the additional sum of
one per cent. on the amount of money so paid to redeem, as the
clerk's fee for receiving and disbursing said redemption money.
And the clerk shall at once pay said money into the registry of
the court for the use of the person entitled thereto, and give a
receipt for said sum to the person making such redemption.
"And the -clerk of ihis court shall thereupon make and file in
the office of the recorder of the county where said premises are
situate, a certificate of such redemption, and the officer in whose
hands said execution shall have been placed, and who shall have
made said levy, shall proceed in the manner required by the
twentieth and twenty-first sections of chapter seventy-seven of
the Revised Statutes of Illinois, entitled "Judgments, decrees,
and executions." After the first redemption, made as aforesaid,
any other judgment or decree creditor who shall have the right
under the laws of this State to redeem said premises from the
first redeeming judgment or decree creditor, may apply to this
court for leave to redeem said-premises from the creditor first

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

redeeming the same, and the court will make such order in regard
to further redemption as the rights of the parties under the law
shall seem to require.
"_PFfth. In all cases when the master in chancery or any other
special or general officer of this court is required to make sale of
real estate under any decree or order of this court in any chancery
suit, notice of the time and place of such sale shall be given by
publication in some newspaper of general circulation published in
the county where said real estate is situated, and in case there is
no such newspaper published in such county, then such publication shall be made in one of the newspapers hereafter named,
published in the city of Chicago, such publication to be made as
often as once each week for three successive weeks, and the first
publication shall be at least twenty days before the day fixed for
such sale."
On the 12th day of December, 1877, the insurance company
instituted a suit for foreclosure, in which a final decree of sale
was passed on the 14th day of July, 1S79. The sale occurred
on the 15th day of August, 1879, when the insurance company
became the purchaser of various lots, into which the mortgaged
premises had been subdivided, at prices aggregating in amount
the principal and interest of its debt-the latter being computed
up to the decree at the rate stipulated in the mortgage, and
thereafter at the statutory rate of six per cent. per annum.
The sale was duly confirmed by an order entered October 10th,
1879.
On the 3d day of November, 1880-these rules being in
force and no redemption having been made by the mortgagor
or by any one claiming under him-a judgment by confession
on a warrant of attorney was entered in the court below for
$10,150 in favor of Henry S. Monroe against W. H. Cushman,
the grantee of the mortgagor. An execution on that judgment,
sued out November 9th, 1880, was placed in thc hands of the
marshal of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, who indorsed thereon a levy, as of that date, on a portion
of the lots purchased by the insurance company. Monroe, on
the succeeding day, deposited with the clerk of the federal
court the sum of $12,741.95, which covered as well the aggre-

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. CUSIMAN. 57
Statement of Facts.

gate amount of principal and interest, as the commissions and
fees allowed to the clerk. R. S. ยง 828. Thereupon, on the
next day, the clerk, under his hand and seal of office, issued a
certificate of redemption for the lots so levied on.
On November 15th, 1880-on which day, according to the
rule established by the Supreme Court of Illinois, the additional three months given to judgment of creditors expired,
Robert D. Fowler, assignee of Monroe's judgment and of his
interest in the levy and redemption that had been made,
deposited ivith the clerk of the federal court the further sum
of $62,037.01 for the redemption of certain others of the lots
purchased by the company. That sum covered the latter's bid
for those lots, with interest at eight per cent. A certificate of
redemption covering such lots was issued on the day of Fowler's deposit. The marshal, on November 16th, 1880, advertised for sale, on the 8th day of December, 1880, all the lots
sought to be redeemed under the Monroe judgment and execution. The record does not show the indorsement of any additional levy beyond that made November 9th, 1880. The sale
occurred as advertised, Fowler becoming the purchaser of all
the lots embraced in the two certificates of November 10th and
November 15th, at a sum equal to the amount of the sums deposited, with interest at the rate of eight per cent. per annum
from the date of such deposits. No money was paid to the
marshal, and none to any other officer, except that deposited
with the clerk, who, as required by the adt of Congress and the
rules in question, placed it in the registry of the court.
The property so sold was, as was claimed by appellee, lawfully
redeemed within the time and in the mode prescribed in the
rules established by the court below for the redemption of real
estate from sales under decrees.
But the contention of the insurance company was that those
rules did not conform to the statutes of Illinois; that the latter,
equally, as to the time within which, the persons by whom, and
the mode in which, redemption might be effected, constituted a
rule of property, obligatory as well upon the federal court as
upon the courts of the State; and as the property sold was not
redeemed in the particular mode prescribed by the local stat-

OCTOBER TERM, 18829.
Argument for the Appellant.

utes, there was no effectual redemption, and, consequently, the
company became entitled to a deed at the expiration of the
period fixed for the exercise of the right of redemption.
The circuit court was of opinion, and so adjudged, that the
rights of the parties as to the mode of redemption were to be
determined by its rules; and since there had been a substantial
compliance with them, the application by the company for a
deed was overruled. From the final order denying that
application this appeal was prosecuted.
-'. E. S. Isham and -Yr. C. Beckwith for appellant. I.
The parties to the record are the mortgagee and purchaser at a
sale under foreclosure on one side, and on the other a purchaser
of a judgment by confession for the purpose of redemption. Such
purchaser has no right of redemption except as it is created by
statute. Phillips v. Demoss, 14 Ill. 410. He has no claim to
have the statutory terms of redemption enlarged by a court of
equity. Apart from statute, no right exists to redeem from a
mortgage sale. Fisher v. Eslaman, 68 Ill. '8. In terms it
must be conceded that the federal rule is inconsistent with the
statute, and a compliance with its terms is not a compliance
with the terms of the statute. It is, therefore, said that the
differences are not of substance, but of form, which a court of
equity should disregard. We concede that when a general
right is given by a special statute of a State, the federal courts
will give effect to it, and in matters of mere form pursue their
own. Railway Company v. Whitton, 13 Wall. 270. But this
cannot be done where compliance with the statutory preliminary
methods is a condition of the enjoyment of the right. And
the courts of Illinois have held that such right of redemption is
statutory and must be exercised in pursuance of the statute.
Littler v. People, 43 Ill. 188; Stone v. Gardner, 20 Ill. 304;
Durley v. Davis, 69 Ill. 133; Clingman v. Hopkie, '78 Ill. 152;
Brine v. Insurance Company, 96 U. S. 627. II. The act reducing the rate of interest to be paid on redemption was passed
after this mortgage was made, and after the bill of foreclosure
was filed. To apply it in this case is, in fact, to impair the obligation of a contract, and brings this transaction within the line of

CONNETICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. CUSHiAUN. 59
Argument for Fowler.

cases which decide that laws which subsist at the time of making
a contract enter into and form part of it as if they were
expressly referred to or incorporated in its terms. Von H~ofman v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535; Bronson v. -Yinzie, 1 How. 311;
Edwards v. Kearzey, 96 U. S. 595; AfoCracken v. H7ayward,
2 How. 608; Planters' Bank v. Shliar, 6 row. 301 ; Green
v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1.
ItMr. George F. Edmunds (fr. William 1. Page was with
him) "for Fowler.
L A. An act of Congress providing for any method of disposing of property drawn into adjudication in the national courts is
valid, however different that method may be from the methods
provided by State law. Brinev. Ineurance Comjpany, 96U. S.
627; Allis v. Isurance Company, 97 U. S. 144. 13. The rules
adopted by the Circuit Court in the Northern District of
Illinois are authorized by and are in conformity with the laws
of the United States (Revised Statutes, sections 917 and 918),
and they are in perfect harmony with section 995 Revised
Statutes, requiring all moneys paid to officers of the court to
be placed in some public depository. They, therefore, have the
same force and effect as if they had been embodied in an act of
Congress. C. The State law speaks only to the officers of the
State. It caninot speak to any others. The national law speaks
to the courts and officers of the United States, and as to them
its voice is sovereign. D. It is admitted that Congress cannot
establish a rule for the transfer of property in a State as a rule
of private conduct. But it is submitted with entire confidence
that Congress has power, in the establishment and regulation
of the judiciary of the United States, to provide for the method
and fact of the disposition of any kind of property concerning
which the United States courts have (as in this case) a controversy and suit properly depending before them. E. In cases
like this the court has, pursuant to the law of Congress, prescribed methods of practice and administration merely, to
effectuate with the greatest possible safety, as between its own
suitors, the very substance of the rights that the law of the
State gives when cases arise in her courts. It is only a varia-

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of formal means to the very same enl. II. A. At the
time the mortgage was given, the law of the State allowed a
contract rate of interest up to ten per cent. The contract rate
on the debt was nine per cent. The State law allowed six per
cent. on judgments and decrees. It provided for sales on foreclosure decrees at public auction to the highest bidder. It provided that redemptions from such sales by the debtor or his
execution creditor might be made on paying the sum bid and
paid by the purchaser, with: ten per cent. interest. Before the
decree offoreclosure and sale the State changed its law of interest on such redemptions, and required the payment Qf only
eight per cent. interest. B. There is no conceivable legal or
equitable privity of contract between the purchaser at such a
sale and the payee or holder of the obligation secured by the
mortgage. The purchaser aspurchaseris an entire stranger to
the contract of debt, and he would hold the land sold even if the
decree should be reversed, and the whole debt claimed be held
fraudulent. It follows, therefore, that a change in the law of
the interest payable to the purchaser, cannot impair the obligation of the contract of debt between the original parties. And,
as it was enacted before the purchaser acquired any interest, it
cannot impair the obligation of any contract of his. See Wood
v. Kennedy, 19 Ind. 68; Bank v. -Dudley,2 Pet. 492. III. If
it be possible to suppose there is any doubt on the foregoing
question, the redeeming creditor paid the purchaser his money
with eight per cent. interest, in obedience to the express command of the sovereign power of the State, in good faith, meaning to pay all that was due. Te then, if in error, acted under
a power apparently valid and under a mistake as to its validity,
and while the case and the estate were still in court, he tendered
the other two per cent. In such a case, it is confidently insisted that the mistake (if there were one), whether it were of
law or fact, or both, may be relieved against in the court of
equity having judicial domain of the whole subject.
-w delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE 1m
After reciting the facts as above set forth, he continued:
In Brine v. Ansurance Company, 96 U. S. 627, it is decided-

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. CUSFEMAN. 61
Opinion of the Court.

reversing the practice which had obtained for many years in the
Circuit Court of the United States sitting in equity in Illinoisthat the State law giving to a mortgagor of real estate the
privilege, within twelve months after a decree of foreclosure,
and to his judgment creditors within three months thereafter,
of redeeming the premises, is a substantial right, and constitutes a rule of property to which the circuit court must conform.
In anticipation, however, of the difficulties which might
attend exact conformity, in every case, to the local statutes, the
court, in that case, said:
"It is not necessary, as has been*repeatedly said in this court,
that the form or mode of securing a right like this should follow precisely that prescribed by the statute. If the right is substantially
preserved or secured, it may be done by such suitable methods
as the flexibility of chancery proceedings will enable the court to
adopt, and which are most in conformity with the practice of
the court."
The decision in that case doubtless suggested to the circuit
court the necessity of adopting definite rules in relation to redemptions from sales under its own decrees. Hence the rules
were established which form part of the statement of facts. It
will have been observed that these rules differ from the provisions of the local statutes in this, that by the former the redemption money in all cases is required to be paid to the holder
of the certificate, or to the clerk of the court, whereas by the
latter, in case of redemption by a judgment creditor, the money
must be paid to the ojicer having the execution. In no case do
the rules of the federal court provide for payment either to the
master or other officer who conducted the decretal sale, or to
the officer holding the execution of the judgment creditor.
However this difference may be regarded in the courts of
Illinois when administering the statutes by which they are
created, and their jurisdiction defined and limited-Littler
v. The People, 43 Ill. 188; Stone v. Gardner, 20 Tb. 304;
Durley v. Davis, 69 Ib. 133-we entertain no doubt of the
power of the federal court to adopt its own modes or methods

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

for the enforcement of the right of redemption given by the
local law. The substantial right given, first, to mortgagors,
their representatives and grantees, and then to the judgment
creditors of such mortgagors or their grantees, was to redeem
the property sold within the time specified. Whether the redemption is by the one or the other class, the money is for the
benefit of the purchaser at the decretal sale. When the
amount going to him is secured by payment into the hands
of some responsible officer, the object of the law, both as respects the purchaser at the decretal sale and the party redeeming, is fully attained. Redemption is effected when, by payment of the redemption money into proper hands, the purchase
at the decretal sale is annulled, and the way opened for another
sale. The federal court, as indicated by its rules, preferred
that the money, if not paid directly to the purchaser, should,
by payment through its clerk, come directly under its control
for the benefit of the purchaser. Where the sale of mortgaged
premises is under a decree of the federal court, and the execution of the judgment creditor seeking to redeem is from a
State court, there is an evident propriety in requiring the money
going to the purchaser at the decretal sale to be paid through
the clerk of the federal court into its registry. The necessity
for such a regulation is not so urgent where the judgment
creditor's execution is from the federal court; but we perceive
no objection to extending the regulation to that class of cases.
Under the operation of the rules in question the records of
the federal court will, in all cases, show whether the right of
a purchaser to a deed has been defeated by redemption. Can
it be said that the mode prescribed by the federal court for
securing the money going to the purchaser impairs his substantial
rights? Is he less secure than he would be if the money is
paid to the officer having the execution? Clearly not. The
substantial right given by the statute to the purchaser is
that the redemption money be secured to him before the
benefit of his purchase is taken away, and the substantial right
given to the party redeeming is that the redemption become
complete and effectual upon payment by him of the required
amount. The particular mode in which the money is paid or

CONN-ECTICUT

=IT. LIFE INS. CO. v. CUSH

AN. 63

Opinion of the Court.

secured by the latter for the benefit of the former is not of the
substance of the rights of either. The mode or manner of payment belongs, so far as the federal court is concerned, to the
domain of practice, the power to regulate which, in harmony
with the laws of the United States and the rules of this court,
as might be necessary and convenient for the administration of
justice, is expressly given by statute to the circuit courts. R. S.

918.
In the conclusions thus indicated we are only giving effect
to former decisions. In Brine v. Insurance Co., supra, it was,
as we have seen, distinctly ruled, touchbig these local statutes,
that the federal court-preserving substantially the right of redemption--could pursue its own forms and modes for securing
such right. The same doctrine, in effect, is announced in Allis
v. Insurance Co., 97 U. S. 144. That case arose under a statute
of Minnesota which allowed the defendant in a foreclosure
proceeding to redeem within twelve months after the conrmation of the sale. The decree ordered the master, on making
sale, to deliver to the purchaser a certificate, stating that unless
the property be redeemed within twelve months after the sale
he would be entitled to a deed. This departure from the letter
of the statute was held not to be material, since substantial
effect was given to the right to redeem within one year. The
court said:
"In the State courts, where the practice undoubtedly is to report the sale. at once for confirmation, the time begins to run
from that confirmation. But if in the federal court the practice
is to make the final confirmation and deed at the same time, it is
a necessity that the time allowed for redemption shall precede
the deed of confirmation. There is here a substantial recognition
of the right to redeem within twelve months."
It results that the objection taken to the rules established by
the court below must be overruled.
The next question to be examined is whether there could be
an effectual redemption except by payment of the amount bid,
with interest at ten per cent., the rate prescribed by statute at
the date of the mortgage. Redemption was made upon the

OCTOBER TERI, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

basis of the amendatory act of 1879, reducing the rate of interest, in such cases, to eight per cent. The contention of the
company's counsel is that that act cannot be applied without
impairing the obligation of its contract. What was that contract? In what did its obligation consist? By the contract
between the mortgagor and mortgagee, the former became
bound to pay, within a certain time, the mortgage debt, with
the stipulated interest of nine per cent. up to final decree, if one
was obtained, and with six per cent. thereafter as prescribed by
statute when the mortgage was given. R. S. Ill. 1874, p. 614.
Certainly the obligation of that contract was not impaired by
the act of 1879, for it did not diminish the duty of the mortgagor to pay what he agreed to pay, or shorten the period of
payment, or interfere with or take away any remedy which
the mortgagee had, by existing law, for the enforcement of its
contract.
The statute in force when the mortgage was executed, prescribing the rate of interest which the amount paid or bid by
the purchasershould bear, as between him and the party seeking to redeem, had no relation to the obligation of the contract
between the mortgagor and the mortgagee. The mortgagor

might, perhaps, have claimed that is statutory right to redeem could not be burdened by an increased rate of interest
beyond that prescribed by statute at the time he executed the
mortgage. But, as to the mortgagee, the obligation of the contract was fully met when it received what the mortgage and
statute in force when the mortgage was executed, entitled it to

demand. The rights of the purchaser at the decretal sale,
if one was had, were not of the essence of the mortgage contract, but depended wholly upon the law in force when the sale
occurred. The company ceased to be a mortgagee when its
debt was merged in the decree, or at least when the sale occurred. Thenceforward its interest in the property was as
purchaser, not as mortgagee. And to require it, as purchaser,
to conform to the terms for the redemption of the property as
prescribed by the statute at the time of purchase, does not, in
any legal sense, impair the obligation of its contract as mortgagee. It assumed the position of a purchaser, subject neces-

CONNECTICUT MIUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. CUSIfLAN. 65
Opinion of the Court.

sarily to the law then in force defining the rights of purchasers.
But it is insisted that the value of the mortgage contract
was impaired by a subsequent law reducing the interest to be
paid to a purchaser at decretal sale; this, upon the assumption
that the probability of the debt being satisfied by the decretal
sale of the property was lessened by reducing the interest
which any purchaser could realize on his bid in the event of
redemption. In other words, the reduction by a subsequent
statute of the interest to be paid to the purchaser would, it is
argued, necessarily tend to lessen the number of bidders seeking investments, and thereby injuriously affect the value of the
mortgage security.
In support of this proposition counsel cite several decisions
of this court in which it is ruled that the objection to a law, as
impairing the obligation of a contract, does not depend upon
the extent of the change it effects; that the laws in existence
when a contract is made, including those which affect its
validity, construction, discharge, and enforcement, enter into
and form a part of it, measuring the obligation to be performed by one party, and the rights acquired by the other;
and that one of the tests that a contract has been impaired is
that its value has been diminished, when the Constitution prohibits any impairment at all of its obligation. Green v. Biddle,
8 Wheat. 1; -WefCracken v. Hfaywar, 2 How. 608 ; Planters'
Bank v. Sharp, 6 ib. 301; Edwards v. Kearzey, 96 U. S. 595.
These decisions clearly have no application to the case now
before the court. The laws with reference to which the
parties must be assumed to have cbntracted, when the mortgage was executed, were those which in their direct or necessary legal operation controlled or affected the obligations of
such contract. We have seen that no reduction of the rate of,
interest, as between the purchaser of mortgaged property at
decretal sale and the party entitled to redeem, affected, or
could possibly affect, the right of the insurance company to
receive, or the duty of mortgagor to pay, the entire mortgagedebt, with interest as stipulated in the mortgage up to the
decree of sale. And the result of the sale in this case
VOL. CVIII-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Syllabus.

shows that the company, as mortgagor, has received all that it
was entitled to demand. The reduction of the rate of interest
by the act of 1879 was by way of relief to the 'mortgagor and
his judgment creditors, and, in no sense, an injury to the mortgagee. When that act was passed there was no person to
answer the description or to claim the rights of a purchaser;
consequently, no existing rights were thereby impaired. That
the reduction of interest to be paid to the purchaser would
lessen the probable number of bidders at the decretal sale, and
thereby diminish the chances of the property bringing the
mortgage debt, are plainly contingencies that might never
have arisen. They could not occur unless there was a decretal
sale, nor unless the mortgagee became thd purchaser; and are
too remote to justify the conclusion, as matter of law, that
such legislation affected the value of the mortgage contract.
One other point remains to be considered. It is said that
the rules of the circuit court requiring payment to the purchaser of interest at the rate of ten per cent., were never modified by any order. The court below, we suppose, proceeded
upon the ground that the interest to be paid to the purchaser by
the party redeeming was of the substance of the rights of both;
consequently that the change, in that respect, made by the
State law prior to the decretal sale, yrop'io 'igore, effected a
modification of the rule without a formal order. In that view
we concur.
For the reasons given the decree below should be affirmed,
and

I is so ordered.

MEDSKER and Wife v. BOINEBRAKE, Assignee.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

STATES

FOR

Bankruptcy-Equity--FrauduentConveyance-Husbandand WifePractice.
1. Where a wife lends to her husband money which is her separate property,
upon his promise to repay it, it creates an equity in her favor which a
court of equity will enforce in the absence of fraud.

