OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Syllabus.

tamned by the collector, and one copy shall be transmitted to
the commissioner of internal revenue, and the survey shall take
effect upon the delivery of such copy to the distiller." In Peabody v. Sta'rk, 16 Wall. 240, it was held, following the rulings of
the commissioner of internal revenue, that the distiller was not
liable for the capacity tax until a copy of the survey had been
delivered to him.
In the present case it appeared that no copy of the survey
had ever been delivered to the distillers, but when the bond
sued on was executed the distillers signed the following indorsement, written on the report of- the survey which had been
made: "We hereby accept the within survey, and consider the
same as binding upon us on and after this date, September 12th,
1873. John B. Wright. Thomas Tucker." The court below
decided that this indorsement was in law a waiver of a delivery
of a copy of the report to the distillers, and that the tax was
consequently collectible. To this we agree. The language of
the act is that "the survey shall take effect upon the delivery
of such copy to the distiller." This is equivalent to saying that
the survey shall be binding on the distiller when the copy is delivered to him. When, therefore, the distiller in this case accepted the survey and stipulated that it was binding on him, he
in effect said that he would consider the survey as having effect
without the formal delivery of a copy. This he might do.
Thejudmwnt isa~ffl-nmed.

LEWIS v. CITY OF SHREVEPORT.
N, ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Decided April 16th, 1883.

MAunicipal Bonds-.Aunicipal Corporations-Ratification.
1. Ottawa v. Cary, ante, 110, reaffirmed.
2. Unless power has been given by the legislature to a municipal corporation
to grant pecuniary aid to railroad corporations, bonds issued for that pur-

LEWIS v. CITY OF SHREVEPORT.
Statement of Facts.
pose, and bearing evidence of the purpose on their face, are void, even in
the hands of bonafide holders.
8. Corporate ratification, without authority from the legislature, cannot make
a municipal bond valid, which was void when issued for want of legislative power to make it.

Action to recover interest due on municipal bonds issued in
aid of a railway. Defence that the charter of the municipality
and the laws affecting it conferred no power to issue such
bonds, and that the bonds were issued without authority and
are void. The charter of Shreveport contained no express
authority for the issue of such bonds. The parties agreed to
the facts on the hearing below. The follbwing are the most
material parts of that agreement:
"2.

That on the 26th of June, 1872, an ordinance was intro-

duced and passed by the city council of Shreveport, authorizing
purchase of real estate by the city to be donated to the Texas &
Pacific Railway Company, upon which depots and machine shops
were to be permanently established and maintained by said company, and providing that for purchase of said property 260 fortyyear $1,000.00 bonds should be issued and sold on market, said
bonds bearing interest at rate of 8 %per annum, payable semiannually, with coupons attached; providing further that said ordinance should be submitted to the vote of the people for their ratification and approval, and it is admitted that said ordinance was
never considered by said council on any other 'day prior to said
26th June, 1872, and that it further provided for levying a tax to
pay interest and create a sinking fund for redemption of bonds.
"3. That, in pursuance of said ordinance, an election was held
in said city on July 1st, 1872, and said ordinance was then and
there ratified and approved by the voters, 705 votes being cast
for said ordinance and 3 against it.
"4. That in pursuance of said ordinance and said vote ratifying same, the said city issued 260 bonds, each for $1,000, payable
at 40 years, bearing interest at 8 %,payable semi-annually, with
interest coupons attached, said bonds bearing date July 1st, 1872,
a copy of which said bonds is attached to and made part of plaintiff's petition, a copy of coupons attached to said bonds being set
out in and made a part of plaintiff's petition.

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"17. That plaintiff acquired ninety of said bonds with coupons
attached, in open market, being bonds to which the interest
coupons sued on belong, paying therefor 85 cents on the dollar,
and that said plaintiff is bona fide holder of said bonds and of
interest coupons sued on for value.
"18. It is admitted that the Texas & Pacific Railway Company
has not now and never had any charter from the State of Louisiana, or any right arising from any statute of that State passed in
favor of said company, but that said company held a lease from
the Vicksburg, Shreveport & Texas R. R. Co., not yet expired, of
the railroad from Shreveport to Texas line.
" 19. It is admitted that the ordinance of June 26th, 1872, is the
only ordinance of said city authorizing the issue of said 260 fortyyear bonds."
The court below held that the bonds were issued without
lawful authority, and were null and void. The plaintiff below
excepted, and brought the case on error here.
r2. William -Y. Grant for plaintiff in error.-I. It was
the general policy of the State of Louisiana to allow municipal
corporations to purchase, hold, and dispose of real property to
the same extent as individuals, without express grants. Edey
This case shows that the
v. Shreveport, 26 La. Ann. 636.
discretion of the city council extended even to a donation to
the Texas & Pacific Railroad Company, a foreign corporation.
-II.
Where a corporation is authorized to do any act and no
mode is pointed out for its exercise, it may adopt any which
in its judgment will best secure the purpose contemplated.
Southern 1ife Ins. & Trust Company v. Lanier, 5 Fla. 110;
City of Galena v. Corwith, 48 Ill. 423; State Board v. Citizens,
&ce., .Railway Company, 47 Ind. 407. The power in a municipal corporation to purchase carries with it power to incur indebtedness for the purchase money, and to issue its negotiable
obligations promising to pay the indebtedness at a future day.
The People v. Brennan, 39 Barb. 522-45; 1 Dillon on Mfunicipal Corporations, 3d ed., ยง 117, p. 144; Daniel on iNegotiable
Instruments, vol. 2, p. 461; _Xills v. Gleason, 11 Wis. 470;
Bank v. Chillicothe, 7 Ohio, 354; State ex rel. .ean v. iladi-

LEWIS v. CITY OF SHREVEPORT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

son, 7 Wis. 688; Clark v. Schwol District, 3 iR. I. 199;
.Ietchum v. Buffalo, 14 N. Y. 356, holding that municipal
corporations generally have the power to issue bonds and notes
without express authority. See also Commonwealth v. Pittsburg, 41 Penn. St. 278; Douglas v. Virginia City, 5 Nevada,
147; -Mfoss v. Harpeth Academy, 7 Heisk. 283; Adams v.
-Memphis, &c.,Railroad Company, 2 Cold. 645; Tie Evansville, &c.,Railroad Company v. Evansville, 15 Ind. 395; City
of Galena v. Corwith, 48 Ill. 423; fAiller v. The Board, 66
Ind. 162.-II. When the power of taxation is given merely
as an incident to enable the corporation to carry out the
usual purposes of its organization, and it is authorized to do
other and independent things which require the use of money,
it may, when not expressly prohibited, borrow money and give
evidences of indebtedness therefor. Williamsport v. Commonwealth, 84 Penn. St. 487; Mills v. Gleason, 11 Wis. 470; Bank
v. Chillicothe, 7 Ohio, 354; Board v. .Day,19 Ind. 450; .Lynde
v. The County, 16 Wall. 6; Police Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall.
566. Power to borrow money is almost universally conceded
to carry, by implication, authority to a municipal corporation
to issue bonds and other securities. Commonwealth v. Pittsburg, 34 Penn* St. 496; The Evannille, &c., Railroad Com_pany v. Eansiville, 15 Ind. 395; .3'iddletown v. Alleghany Co.,
37 Penn. St. 237; Reinboth v. Pittsburg,41 Penn. St. 278;
eybert v. Pittsburg,1 Wall. 272; Rogers v. Burlington, 3
Wall. 654; De -Fossv. Richmond, 18 Gratt. (Va.) 338; Cty of
Galena v. Corwith, 48 Ill. 423; Williamgport v. Commonwealth, 84 Penn. St. 487; JKelly v. .Afayor, 4 Hull, 263; Police
Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 572; .Ailner's Administrators v.
Pensacola, 2 Woods, 632'; .2fayor v. Inman, 57 Ga. 370;
Tucker v. Raleigh, 75 N. C. 267; uflercer Co. v. HMacket, 1
Wall. 83; )1eyer v. fuscatine, 1 Wall. 384; Lynde v. The
County, 16 Wall. 6.-IV. The charter of the city authorized it
to build structures of public necessity and utility. , The money
given to the company was to enable it to erect depot buildings and machine shops, which axe of public utility. The purpose was a lawful one, and as the bonds recite it on their face
the city is estopped from showing that they were not issued for

OCTOBER TERAI,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

that purpose. liacket v. Ottawa, 99 UT. S. 86; Ottawa v. fiational Bank, 105 U. S. 342.-V. There was no prohibition
against granting this aid to a foreign corporation. The result
was the same to it as if the railroad company had been a
Louisiana company, and the same rule of law applies as though
it had been. Railroad Company v. Otoe County, 16 Wall.
667; Walker v. Cincinnati, 21 Ohio St. 14; Sharpless v. The
M3fayor, 21 Penn. 147; Quincy, &c., Railroad Company v.
-Aorris,84 Ill. 410.-VI. In any event the city has acted upon
it, and obtained the money, and its action has been ratified by
the voters.
.Me. B. F. Jonus for defendant in error.
WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit brought to recover the amount of certain
coupons cut from bonds issued by the city of Shreveport, Louisiana, which appear on their face to have been issued "in aid
of the Texas & Pacific Railroad Company." In point of fact,
the bonds were used to buy lands to be donated to the railroad
company as a site for depots and machine shops.
We have had occasion, at this term, in the case of City of
Ottawa v. Cary (ante, 110), to repeat and apply a rule which
has always been recognized and adhered to in this court, to the
effect, that unless power has been given by the legislature to a
municipal corporation to grant pecuniary aid to railroad corporations, all bonds of the municipality, issued for such a purpose, and bearing evidence of the purpose on their face, are
void even in the hands of bona fide holders, and this whether
the people voted the aid or not. Every purchaser of such a
bond is chargeable in law with notice of the want of power in
the municipal authorities to bind the body politic in that way.
This principle is elementary.
In the present case it is not pretended that any such power
was expressly granted to the city of Shreveport, and we find
no provision of the charter from which anything of the kind
can be implied. The authority to purchase and hold property
of all kinds relates only to such property as is needed for muMRvi. CHrEF JUsTucE

LEWIS v. CITY OF SHREVEPORT.
Opinion of the Court.

nicipal purposes. It is a matter of no importance that the city
employed agents to sell the bonds, or that its law officer gave
an opinion in favor of their validity, or -that they have been
recognized in official statements as binding obligations, or that
taxes have been levied to pay either principal or interest. Corporate ratification, without authority from the legislature, cannot make a municipal bond valid which was void when issued
for want of legislative power to make it. These bonds carried
on their face full notice to every purchaser that they were
issued for a purpose not authorized by law, that is to say, to
aid a railroad corporation. This whole subject was so fully
considered in City of Ottawa v. Cary,supra, 110, that we deem
it unnecessary to discuss the subject further now.
In dey v. Shreveport, 26 La. Ann. 636, which is relied upon
as establishing the power of the city to issue the bonds, the
question was whether the vendor of the land, which had been
only partly paid for out of the proceeds of the bonds, could
enforce his mortgage and vendor's privilege on the land to recover the balance of purchase money due him, and it was decided that he could. This is no more than was in effect held
by this court at the present term in City of Parkers~irgv.
Brown, 106 'U. S. 487. All that was said by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana must be construed in connection with the
question then up for decision. There is not a word about the
validity of the outstanding bonds, nor of the right of the holders
to recover upon them in a suit against the city. The whole
effect of the decision is that the city could not keep the land
as against the vendor without paying for it. That the court
would have held the bonds void, if it had been called on to
decide that question, is shown beyond all doubt in the case of
Wilon v. Shreveport, 29 La. Ann. 673, where the power to
issue bonds, apparently of a much less objectionable character,
was expressly denied.
The judgment is arffrned.

