OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

SHAINWALD, Receiver, and Others v. LEWIS.
AIPpEAL FRO-

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEVADA.
Decided March 26th, 1S83.

1?emovaZ of Causes.
1. When in the settlement of a controversy one of the plaintiffs and one of the
defendants, necessary parties for the determination of the issues, are citizens of the same State, the cause cannot be removed from the State
court under the first clause of section 2, of the act of March 3d, 1875,
ch. 137, 18 Stat. 470.
2. In the present case the issue is not a separable controversy which, under the
provisions of the second clause in that section, can be so removed.

Appeal from an order of the court below remanding a suit
removed into it from a State court of Nevada.
H fackey for appel,Yr. iT. 1. Crittenden and XW.. FranklinH.
lants.
_3. Albert Bach for defendant.
WArTE delivered the opinion of the court.
Isaac J. Lewis, a citizen of Nevada, the appellee, on the 15th
of January, 1881, brought suit against Harris Lewis, a citizen
of California, for the dissolution of an alleged partnership between them, and a settlement of the partnership affairs. To
this suit, he made Abraham Coleman, a creditor of the firm
and a citizen of California, J. A. Wright, Hoffman Brothers,
Joseph Huber, Charles Sadler, A. & -. Sower, R. Hogan, J.
D. Pringle, Charles Polkinghorn, B. C. Thomas, and James
Brennan, citizens of Nevada, defendants, jointly with Harris
Lewis. According to the averments in the bill, Harris Lewis, one
of the partners, had become involved in business complications
of his own, and a large judgment had been taken against him in
the District Court of the United States for the District of California in favor of Herman Shainwald, assignee in bankruptcy
of Schoenfield, Cohn & Co. A suit 'Was begun on this judgment in the District Court of the United States for the District
31R. CHrEF JUSTiCE

SHAINWALD v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

of Nevada, and Ralph L. Shainwald was, by an e parrte order,
without notice, appointed receiver of the estate of Harris Lewis
in Nevada. The receiver at once took possession of the property of the partnership, whereupon a motion was made to
vacate his appointment, which was granted. Notwithstanding
this, Shainwald retained possession and was selling the interest
of Harris Lewis in the property, and on- such sales delivering
the possession to the purchasers. All the defendants named,
except Harris Lewis and Coleman, axe either purchasers of the
property, or in possession as the agents of the Shainwalds.
On the filing of this bill a receiver of the property of the
firn was appointed and qualified. All the defendants, except Harris Lewis and Coleman, answered the bill on the
17th of January, denying the existence of the partnership, and
claiming that the property in dispute was the individual property of Harris Lewis. On the same day Herman Shainwald
and Ralph L. Shainwald filed a petition of intervention, in
which they asked to be admitted as defendants. In this petition they averred that Ralph L. Shainwald had been appointed
receiver of the property of Harris Lewis by the District Court
for the District of California, and that he took possession under
that appointment. It was also stated that in the suit begun in
the District Court for the District of Nevada, an attachment was
issued under which the property was seized by B. C. Thomas,
the sheriff, who was in possessioni under that authority. It also
appeared that, in obedience to an order of the district judge in
California, Harris Lewis had executed a formal assignment of
all his property to the receiver appointed there.
On the 26th of January Ralph L. Shainwald was, by order
of the court, admitted as a defendant in the suit, and the pleadings amended accordingly. Before this time a petition for the
removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Nevada had been filed by Herman Shainwald and Ralph L. Shainwald, in which it is stated "that the
real parties in interest in this action are I. J. Lewis, of the
county of Lander, State of Nevada, as plaintiff, and Ralph L.
Shainwald, receiver;" that the defendant Pringle is the agent of
Shainwald the receiver, and in possession for him; that Ralph

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

L. Shainwald and Herman Shainwald are citizens of California;
that the defendants Wright, Coleman, Hoffman, Huber, Sadler,
Sower, Hogan, Polkinghorn, Thomas, Pringle, and Brennan
are nominal defendants, and have no interest in the suit; that
the goods for which they were sued were sold to them by
iRalph L. Shainwald, as receiver; and "that the controversy in
said action between said plaintiff and said B. C. Thomas, holding the possession of said property by virtue of said attachment in favor of said assignee, and the controversy in said
action between said plaintiff and said J. D. Pringle, holding the possession of said property as agent of said receiver
Ralph L. Shainwald, and by virtue of his appointment as receiver, is wholly between citizens of different States, and which
can be fully determined as between them; and that said Ralph
L. Shainwald and said assignee Herman Shainwald are
actually interested in said controversy." Upon this petition the
State court, after admitting Ralph L. Shainwald as a party to
the suit, but not Herman Shainwald, ordered a removal, but
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Nevada, when the record was filed there, remanded the cause.
From an order to that effect this appeal was taken.
We entertain no doubt of the propriety of the order remanding the suit, brought, as it was, to close up the affairs of the
partnership between Isaac J. Lewis and Harris Lewis. All
the defendants, except Harris Lewis and Coleman, who have
not answered, deny the existence of the partnership. Upon
one side of that issue, as now made up, is Isaac J.Lewis, a
citizen of Nevada, and on the other, Ralph L. Shainwald, a
citizen of California, and all the other answering defendants
citizens of Nevada. If Thomas, the sheriff, and Pringle, the
agent, are nominal parties, the other defendants are not. If
Shainwald is a necessary party, so are they, because they are
interested in the controversy in the same way, if not to the
same extent, that he is. They get their title from him, and if
he holds the -property under the assignment from Harris
Lewis, subject to the claims of Isaac J.Lewis as a partner, and
the partnership creditors, so do they. It is of no importance
that Shainwald has more in amount at stake than they. The

. BARTON v. GEILER.
Opinion of the Court.

title of all depends on defeating the claim of Isaac J. Lewis as
a partner. To that extent their interests are identical with
those of Shainwald. If there was no partnership, they all go
fTee and each keeps the property he has got. If there was,
the interests of these parties may become antagonistic. Besides, on the question of partnership, Harris Lewis, a citizen of
California, is a necessary party. If he insists on the partnership, as he certainly may, then, in arranging the parties on
that question, there will be citizens of Nevada and California,
on one side, and citizens of the same States on the other.
Clearly, under these circumstances, the suit was not removable
under the first clause of the second section of the act of March
3d, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470.
Neither was there any separable controversy in the-suit such
as would entitle any of the parties to a removal under the
second clause. As has already been said, the suit was brought
to close up the affairs of an alleged partnership. The main dispute is about the existence of the partnership. All the other
questions in the case are dependent on that. If the partnership is established, the rights of the defendants are to be settled in one way; if not, in another. There is no controversy
in the case now which can be separated from that about the
partnership, and fully determined by itself.
The order remamding this &uitis affirmed.

BARTON v. GEILER.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME" COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE..
Decided March 26th, 1883.

This case involves no law.. On the facts the decree of the State court is.
affirmed.

MR. C=IEF JusrcE WArm delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit in equity brought in a State court of Ten-nessee by Barton, as asSignee in bankruptcy of Kessler & Har-VOL. cVII-11

