OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Statement of Facts.

FARLOW, Receiver, v. KELLY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Decided April 16th, 1883.

Common Carrier-egligence,contributory.
1. It is culpable negligence in the managers of a railroad, if their servants
permit a car to stand upon a side track for five or ten minutes before
the arrival of a train upon the main track, and to remain there until the
arrival of that train in such a position that the incoming train must
strike it; and it entails liability upon the company as a common carrier
for accidents happening in consequence.
2. A passenger who rests his elbow on the sill of an open window in a car, but
without protruding it beyond the car, and whose arm is then thrown by
the force of a collision outside of the car, and is injured in the collision,
does not contribute to the cause of the injury by his own negligence.

Proceedings against a receiver of a railroad corporation to
recover damages against him as common carrier for injuries
suffered in a collision.
While the Cincinnati, Sandusky and Cleveland Railroad was
being operated by John S. Farlow, a receiver appointed by the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Ohio, in a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage on the
road, Sylvanus Kelly, a passenger on one of the trains, was
injured by the collision of a car in which he was riding with a
freight car standing on a side track. Kelly thereupon petitioned the circuit court for leave to sue the receiver in the
Court of Common Pleas of Sandusky County, Ohio, to recover
for the injuries he had sustained. This was denied. He then
asked leave to file his complaint against the receiver in the suit
for foreclosure. This was granted, and the receiver ordered to
make his defence. Kelly thereupon filed in the circuit court
his complaint, in which he set forth his claim growing out of
the alleged carelessness and neglect of the receiver and his
agents, and prayed that an inquiry might be had as to the
amount of his damages, and the receiver ordered to pay the
same. The receiver answered, denying that the injury com-

FARLOW v. KELLY.
Statement of Facts.

plained of was occasioned by his negligence or that of his
servants or agents, and averring that it was "caused by the
negligence and want of care by the said Sylvanus Kelly inimproperly exposing himself to injury while riding on said car,
by so placing his arm in an open window of said car that it
projected outside thereof, and thereby came in contact with
said standing car." After the issue was thus made up, the.
matter was referred to a special master, on the application of
Kelly, "to hear the matters set forth in said complaint, answer
and replication, and such evidence as the parties may offer
relevant and pertinent to the issues therein made, and determine and report whether, under the law, the said receiver is
liable for the injuries complained of by the said Sylvanus
Kelly; and, if so, the amount of compensation which said Sylvanus Kelly shall be entitled to receive for the same;
and that h6 report his findings, together with the evidence and
costs of his proceedings, to this court as soon as possible, at the
January term thereof."
Under this order the master heard the case and reported in
substance the following facts: ]Bellefontaine is a station on the
line of the road at which passenger trains stop and pass each
other. Immediately south of the town is a side track, of about
one thousand feet in length, with a switch at each end uniting
it with the main track. This side track has a descending grade
from north to south of about four feet in the whole distance of
one thousand. On the morning of the 23d of August, 1877,
three freight cars were standing on the side track, two of them
near the north switch, and one about one hundred and thirtyfive feet from the south switch. Kelly was a passenger on a
passenger train going north on the road that day, and had a
seat about midway of the car, near an open window. Having
a severe headache, shortly before the train reached the south
end of the side track, he placed his right elbow on the sill or
base of the open window and rested his head on his right hand.
The train on which he rode was to pass another going south
at Bellefontaine about noon of the day. The train going south
arrived at the north end of the side track about twenty minutes
before that on which Kelly was riding reached the south end.
VOL. CVM-19

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Statement of Facts.

The train from the north was switched from the main track on
to the side track at the north end, and to make room for itself
pushed the two freight cars southward, putting them in motion
toward the south end of the side track on the down grade.
The brakes on the freight cars were not attended to, and the
impulse given them by the incoming train caused them to
move the single car standing near the south end of the side
track to a point so near the main track that the train from the
south could not pass without contact. This freight car remained in that position from five to ten minutes before the
train from the south arrived. While the freight car stood in
this dangerous proximity to the main track, the train from the
south came up at more than ordinary speed, and the forward
right-hand corner of the coach in which Kelly was riding
struck the freight car and jarred his elbow from the window
sill outward over the window sill and outside of the car, bringing his forearm in contact with the freight car, while his arm
above the elbow was pressed against the side of the window.
The train in which Kelly was riding being in motion, his arm
was crushed and broken below and above the elbow in such a
manner as to require amputation near the shoulder.
As conclusions of law from these facts, the master found
that there was negligence in the management of the railroad,
in allowing the freight car to stand so near the main track
when the train from the south came up, and in not keeping the
train from the south under control as it approached the station.
I-e also found that Kelly was not in fault under the circumstances for resting his elbow .on the sill of the open window.
To this report exceptions were filed by the receiver: 1, because the master found as a fact that the elbow of Kelly rested
on the sill or base of the window until it was thrown outside
by the force of the collision; and, 2, because he found as a
conclusion of law that it was not an act of negligence for Kelly
to ride with his elbow on the sill of the open window.
The court overruled the exceptions and ordered the receiver
to pay Kelly for his damages the sum of $5,001. From this
order an appeal was taken.

FARLOW v. KELLY.
Opinion of the Court.

-Y. S. A. Bowrman for the appellant.-The cases upon which
the master based his decision are clearly against the weight of
authority, and against the rule, well established in Ohio, on the
doctrine of contributory negligence. In Todd v. Old Colony,
&c., Railroad Company, 3 Allen, 208, the court say, in a similar
case: "His own testimony shows that it was resting on the
sill of the window of the car, and that a portion of it, when
the injury was inflicted, was beyond the sash, so as to be outside of the external surface of the window. Nor was there any
doubt or dispute that if the plaintiff had kept himself entirely
within the limits of that part of the car intended for, and appropriated to passengers, the accident which occasioned the
injury would not have happened. It was the plaintiff's own
act which contributed to the injury." This case is followed
and sustained by the following authorities: Pittsknrg,etc.,
Railroad Company v. 3fcOlurg, 56 Penn. St. 294; Iouisville,
&c.,Railroad Company v. Sickings, 5 Bush, 1; Pittburg, &c.,
Railroad Company v. Andrews, 39 Md. 329; Geisleman v.
Scott, 25 Ohio State, 5.
MmCEF JUsTicE W.A TE, after reviewing the facts as
above recited, said:

The questions argued here' are those presented by the exceptions below. After examining the testimony reported by the
master, we are entirely satisfied with his findings of fact.
There can be no doubt whatever of the culpable neglect of the
managers of the road in leaving the freight car to stand on the
side track so near the main track as to make a collision with
the approaching train from the south inevitable, and in our
opinion it was not contributory negligence for Kelly, under the
circumstances, to ride with his elbow on the sill of the open
window.
Diwjudgment is afflrmed.

