OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Syllabus.

tract, and that the plaintiffs were not entitled to sue in respect
of those portions of the work which had been completed,
whether the materials used had become the property of the defendant or not. See Benjamin on Sales, 3d Am. ed. ยง 570;
Wfells v. Calnan, 107 Mass. 514, and cases there cited.
These principles axe so well established that it is only necessary to refer to one case in this court, Jones v. U7nited States,
96 U. S. 24, which recognizes them, in which it is said:
"Where an act is to be performed by the plaintiff before the
accruing of the defendant's liability under his contract, the plaintiff must prove either his performance of such condition precedent, or an offer to perform it which the defendant rejected, or
his readiness to fulfil the condition until the defendant discharged
him from so doing, or prevented the execution of the matter
which the contract required him to perform. . . . A contract
may be so framed that the promises upon one side may be dependent on the promises upon the other, so that no action can be
maintained, founded on the written contract, without showing
that the plaintiff has performed, or at least has been ready, if
allowed by the other party, to perform his own stipulations,
which are a condition precedent to his right of action."

On a full considerationof the case, we are of opinion,that the
decree of the circuit court must be affirmed.

THE CO1NEMARA.
SINCLAIR & Another v. COOPER & Others.
"P'EAL

FROM ThE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Decided April 30th, 1883.

SaZvage-Satutes.
1. A ship, towed by a steam tug down a river, came to anchor in the evening,
and the tug was lashed to her side. In the night, no watch having been

TE CONNEMARA.
Argument for Appellants.
set, a passenger on board of her was awakened by a smell of smoke arising from a fire, which had broken out in part of the cargo stowed in the
poop, and which endangered the ship and cargo. He gave the alarm to
the officers and crews of the ship and of the tug; and he and the officers,
crew and passengers of the tug, working together, and by means of a
steam pump and hose upon the tug, and unaided by the officers and crew
of the ship, put out the fire in twenty minutes: Held, That this was a
salvage service, and that the passenger on board the ship, as well as the
owner, officers, crew and passengers of the tug, might share in the salvage.
2. Under the act of Congress of 16th February, 1875, c. 77, a decree of salvage
by the circuit court is not to be altered by this court for excess in the
amount awarded, unless the excess is so great that, upon any reasonable
view of the facts found, the award cannot be justified by the rules of law
applicable to the case.

In admiralty. Libel for salvage. Decree below for libellants, and appeal. The act of salvage was done on a voyage
down the river Mississippi, the vessel being fully freighted for
Liverpool. The salvors were a tugboat, the officers and crew
of the vessel, and passengers on the vessel. The main contention was as to the amomt of the salvage and as to the right of
a passenger to participate.
.Yr. P. Phillipsand M'. V. Hallett Phillipsfor appellants.
-The tugboat and crew are not entitled to salvage: only to a
liberal renumerationpro opere et labore. The 67ifton, 3 Haggard Admr. 111, cited in Abbott on Shipping, marg'l p. 557.
This court defines the elements of salvage service to be "danger to property, value, risk of life, skill, labor, and the durption of the service." Post v. Jones, 19 How. 150, at 161. It
was long doubted whether a tug, while engaged in the service of
a ship, could claim salvage. It is well settled that the fact of
the service diminishes the quantum of reward. James' Salvage,
40; Dr. Lushington in The Win. Bpandt. The main ingredient,
.danger, being absent in ordinary services rendered by tugs,
large amounts should not be awarded. T/e Birdie, ' Blatchford, 238. Sailing vessels are liberally rewarded on account of
the danger which they run. [7e Blaekwell, 10 Wall. 1. In the
present case the tug ran no danger whatever. The only possible ground to be urged in support of the decree is the value
voL. cvm-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

of the ship and cargo ; but this should not constitute the main
consideration of the case. Say the Privy Council: "The rule
seems to be that, though the value of the property salved is to
be considered in the estimate of the remuneration, it must not
be allowed to raise the quantum to an amount altogether out of
proportion to the services actually rendered." The Amerique,
L. R. 6 P. C. Appeals, 468, 472. See also The Henry, 2 Eng.
.Law and Eq. 565: Parsons on Shipping, 283. The decree in
allowing salvage to a passenger is sustainable on no principle.
See 3 Kent. Com. marg. p. 246. In a case where an officer in
the Royal Navy rendered assistance to the ship in distress, of
which he was a passenger, the court said: "No case has been
cited where such a claim by a passenger has been established.
When there is a common danger it is the duty of every one
on board to give all the assistance he can." The Branston, 2
Hfaggard, 3; The Clarita, 23 Wall. 1; The Vrede, I Lush.
322. In the latter case, Dr. Lushington is thus reported:
"Services rendered by passengers must have occurred over and
over again, yet, except the cases of the Branston and the Salacia, there is apparently no precedent on which a claim for salvage by a passenger has been prosecuted in this court." The
exception to the general rule is again expressed in these terms:
"If they assume extraordinary responsibility and devise original and unprecedented means by which the ship is saved after
her officers have proved themselves powerless." The Great
Eastern IU. S. D. C. for N. G., per Shipman.
.-Mr. Richard -De Gray, .r.
IF. 1ornor for appellees.

J

. Beckwith and -Y1.. Cas.

.. JUSTICE Gn.&Y delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a libel in admiralty by the owner, master and crew
of the steam towboat Joseph Cooper, Jr., for salvage on the
ship Connemara and cargo. Louis Wurtz and Henry Holser,
passengers on the towboat, and John Evers, a passenger on the
ship, were permitted to file intervening libels. The value of
the ship and cargo was agreed to be $236,631. The district
court awarded as salvage eight per cent. on that value, or

M

THE CONNEMARA.
Opinion of the Court.

$18,930.96 ; and the owners and claimants of the ship appealed
to the circuit court.
The circuit court found the following facts: On the 15th of
April, 1879, the ship Connemara, being in the port of -'ew
Orleans, with her cargo on board, consisting chiefly of pressed
cotton, and bound on a voyage for Liverpool, England, engaged
the towboat Joseph Oooper, Jr., to tow her to the mouth of
the Mississippi River, and was by her towed about twenty-six
miles down the river, and came to anchor about eight o'clock
in the evening opposite the Belair plantation. About eleven
o'clock at night, the ship, with the towboat lashed to her side,
was lying with her bow to the current and her stern to the
wind, which was blowing stiffly; no watch had been set; and
the two mates and the boatswain of the ship were under
the influence of liquor, and the captain and the rest of the crew
were sober. Evers, a passenger on board the ship, being then
asleep in the second mate's cabin, was awakened by a smoke of
burning cotton, sprang from his berth, and gave the alarm to
the officers and crews of the ship and of the towboat. The
fire was not in the hold, but in the poop above the main deck,
and near the door, which could be opened by raising the latch;
and the fire, when discovered, was confined to three bales of
cotton, a spare sail, and two coils of tarred rope. There were
one hundred and twenty-seven bales of cotton stowed in the
poop. The fire was not caused by the fault of the towboat, or
by any defect in her equipment or management. The towboat
had on her deck a pump worked by steam, and hose long
enough to reach the fire on the ship. As soon as the alarm
was given, and by the exertions of the towboat's officers and
crew, of her two passengers and of Evers, the hose was laid
'from the pump to the deck of the ship, and by their use of
this pump and hose the fire was put out in fifteen or twenty
minutes, without any damage to ship or cargo, beyond the
burning of the sail and the two coils of rope, the partial burning of the three bales of cotton, and the charring of a part of
the upper deck or roof of the poop. In extinguishing the fire,
there was no serious risk of loss or damage to the towboat, or
of injury to life or limb of any of the salvors. No efficient

OCTOBER TERM,

1882.

Opinion of the Court.

effort was made by the officers or the crew of the ship to extinguish the fire. The ship had on her deck, within fifteen feet
of the fire, two tanks of water, holding four hundred gallons
each, one of which was full and the other half full, with six
buckets near the fire and seven above, and a pump by which
water could have been pumped upon the upper deck. At
the time of the fire, the steam tug Harry Wright was lying
about a quarter of a mile off; and there was a telegraph
station on the Belair plantation, from which a dispatch could
have been sent to the city of New Orleans for aid to put
out the fire, and efficient aid might have reached the ship
from the city in two hours and a half after notice. The agreed
value, as aforesaid, of the Connemara and cargo, and the
names and monthly wages of each of the officers and crew
of the Joseph Cooper, Jr., were also stated in the findings of
fact.
From these facts the circuit court made and stated the following as conclusions of law: 1st. The services rendered by the
towboat Joseph Cooper, Jr., her officers and crew, and the
three passengers, Wurtz, ilolser and Evers, in the extinguishment of the fire on board the ship Connemara, were a. salvage
service. 2d. A gross salvage on the ship and cargo of $14,198,
or six per cent. on the value thereof, should be allowed. 3d.
This salvage should be equally divided, half to the owner of
the towboat and half to the salvors. 4th. The moiety allowed
to the salvors should be distributed among them in proportion
to their monthly wages, the passengers Wurtz and Evers to
rank as pilots, and iolser as a steersman.
A decree was entered accordingly, and the claimants appealed
to this court. A motion to dismiss the appeal for want of
jurisdiction was made and overruled at October term, 1880.
DThe Connemara, 103 TU. S. -751.
The errors assigned are: First. That the facts found do not
constitute a salvage service. Second. That if a salvage service,
it is salvage of the lowest grade, and the amount allowed is
exorbitant. Third. That the amount allowed to John Evers,
he being a passenger on board the Connemara, is not warranted by law.

THE CONNEMARA.
Opinion of the Court.

Neither of the grounds assigned will justify this court in reversing the decree.
If the fire, which had made such headway as to wholly consume the two coils of tarred rope and the spare sail, and to
partly destroy three bales of the cotton stowed in the poop,
had not been promptly discovered and extinguished, there was
iniminent danger that it would extend to the rest of that cotton,
and, fanned by the stiff breeze which was blowing lengthwise
of the ship, destroy or greatly damage the ship and the whole
cargo. Saving a ship from imminent danger of destruction by
fire is as much a salvage service as saving her from the perils of
the seas. The Blacekwell, 10 Wall. 1. The shortness of the time
occupied in rescuing the ship from danger does not lessen the
merit of the service. The General Palmer, 5 Notes of Cases,
159, note; The Syrian, 2 Mait. Law Cas. 387; Sonderurg v.
Ocean Towboat Company, 3 Woods, 146. The- danger being
real and imminent, it is not necessary, in order to make out a
salvage service, that escape by other means should be impossible. Talbot v. Seeman, 1 Cranch, 1, 42.
The fact that no serious risk was incurred on the part of the
salvors does not change the nature of the service, although an
important element in estimating its merit and the amount of
the reward. As has been well said by Mr. Justice Curtis,
"The relief of property from an impending peril of the sea,
by the voluntary exertions of those who are under no legal obligation to render assistance, and the consequent ultimate safety of the
property, constitute a case of salvage. It may be a case of more
or less merit, according to the degree of peril in which the property was, and the danger and difficulty of relieving it. But these
circumstances affect the degree of the service, not its nature."
Thie Alplhonso, 1 Curtis, 376, 378.
The contract of the towboat and her officers and crew was
to tow the ship, and did not include the rendering of any sal
vage service, by putting out fire or otherwise. Such a service,
which, by the use of the steam pump and engine of the towboat, rescued the ship from an unforeseen and extraordinary
peril, gave the owner as well as the officers and crew of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

towboat a right to salvage. The TWillian Brandt, J'..,2 Note
of Cases, Supplement, lxvii.; The Saratoga, Lush. 318; T7e
ifinneliaha,15 Mloore P. C. 133 ; S. C. Lush. 335; The Annafpolis, Lush. 355, 361, 372. And no doubt is or could be raised
as to the right of the passengers 'on the towboat, whose exertions contributed to putting out the fire, to share in the salvage
awarded to her officers and crew. The Cora, 2 Pet. Adm.
361; S. C. 2 Wash. 0. 0. 80; The HMope, 3 Hlagg. Adm. 423.
Evers, the passenger on the Connemara,was also entitled to
share in the salvage. A passenger cannot indeed recover
salvage for every service which would support a claim by
one in no wise connected with the ship. In the case of a common danger, it is the duty of every one on board the ship to
give every assistance he can, by the use of all ordinary means
in worldng and pumping the ship, to avert the danger. Yet a
passenger is not, as the officers and crew are, bound to stand by
the ship to the last ; he may leave her at any time and seek his
own safety; and for extraordinary services, and the use of
extraordinary means, not furnished by the equipment of the ship
herself, by which she is saved from imminent danger, he may
have salvage. Hewman v. Walters, 3 B. & P. 612; The
Branston, 2 Ilagg. Adm. 3, note; The Salacia, 2 Hagg. Adm.
262, 269; The Frede, Lush. 322; The Pontiac, 5 McLean,
359, 363; The Great _astern, 2 Marit. Law Cas. 148; S. C. 11
Law Times (N. S.), 516; The Stella Jfarie, Young's Adm. 16;
3 Kent Com. 246. The services of Evers were of peculiar
value, and involved the use of means outside the ship. His
promptness and vigilance gave the alarm, which, by the
supineness and neglect of the officers and crew of the ship,
night not otherwise have been given in time to save her. This
might not of itself have entitled him to reward; but beyond
this he exerted himself, as if he had been one of the officers
and crew of the towboat, in the use of the steam pump and
hose on board of her, by which the fire on the ship was effectually subdued.
It may also be observed that this case comes before us on the
appeal of the owners of the ship; and that there is no controversy, either between Evers and the other salvors, or between

THE CONNEMARA.
Opinion of the Court.

the salvors who gave their personal exertions and the owners of
the towboat whose machinery was used, as to the distribution
of the salvage.
The services performed being salvage services, the amount of
salvage to be awarded, although stated by the circuit court in
the form of a conclusion of law, is largely a matter of fact and
discretion, which cannot be reduced to precise rules, but depends upon a consideration of all the circumstances of each
case. The Blaireau, 2 Cranch, 240, 261; The -Adventure, 8
Cranch, 221, 228; The Emulous, 1 Sumner, 207, 213; Tie
Cora, above cited; Post v. Jones, 19 How. .150, 161.
In The Sybil, 4 Wheat. 98, Chief Justice Marshall said:
"It is almost impossible that different minds contemplating the
same subject, should not form different conclusions as to the
amount of salvage to be decreed and the mode of distribution."
And by the uniform course of decision in this court, during
the period in which it had full jurisdiction to reverse decrees in
admiralty upon both facts and law, as well as in the Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council of England, exercising a like
jurisdiction, the amount decreed below was never reduced, unless for some violation of just principles, or for clear and palpable mistake or gross over-allowance. Hobart v. Drogan, 10
Pet. 108, 119 ; The Comanche, 8 Wall. 448, 479 ; The Neptune, 12 Moore P. C. 346; The CarrierDove, 2 Moore P. C.
(N. S.) 243; S.C. Brown. & Lush. 113; The Fusilier,3 Moore
P. C. (N. S.) 51; S. C. Brown. & Lush. 341.
By the act of Congress of 16th February, 1875, c. 77, the appellate power of this court is restricted within narrower bounds ;
its authority to revise any decree in admiralty of the circuit
court is limited to questions of law; and the finding of facts by
that court is equivalent to a special verdict, or to facts found
by the court in an action at law when a trial by jury is waived.
The Abbotmford, 98 U. S. 440; The 'Francis IWright, 105 U.
S.381 ; Sun Insurance Company v. Ocean Insurance Company,
107 U. S.485.
The effect of this change may be illustrated by referring to

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

the revisory power of the courts in actions at law tried by a
jury. The facts are decided by the jury in the first instance.
If the jury return a general verdict, clearly against the weight
of evidence, or assessing exorbitant damages, the court in which
the trial is had may set aside the verdict and order a new trial.
But a court of error, to which the case is brought by bill of exceptions or appeal on matter of law only, cannot set aside
the verdict, unless there is no evidence from which the conclusion of fact can be legally inferred. Park8 v. Ross, 11
How. 362; iSchuclwrdt v. Allens, 1 Wall. 359.
Before the act of 1875, this court, upon an appeal in a
case of salvage, gave the same weight, and no more, to the
decree of the court below, that a court of common law
would allow to the verdict of a jury; and might revise that
decree for manifest error in matter of fact, even if no violation of the just principles which should govern the subject
was shown. Post v. Jones, 19 How. 150, 160. Since the
act of 1875, in cases of salvage, as in other admiralty cases,
this court may revise the decree appealed from for matter of
law, but for matter of law only; and should not alter the
decree for the reason that the amount awarded appears to be
too large, unless the excess is so great that, upon any reasonable view of the facts found, the award cannot be justified by
the rules of law applicable to the case.
In the present case, a vessel and cargo of great value were
rescued from imminent danger by the energetic efforts of the
salvors; and the amount of salvage awarded is less than onesixteenth of the value of the property saved. Although upon
the circumstances of the case, so far as they can be brought
before us by the summary of them in the findings of facts by
the circuit court, we might have been better satisfied with an
award of a smaller propprtion, we cannot say that the amount
awarded is so excessive as to violate any rule of law.
Decree afirmed.

