EX PARTE NORTON.
Statement of Facts.

either of interest or dividends, which had been made at earlier
dates.
There are other assignments of error, but those already considered dispose of the entire case in a way to render the others
immaterial on another trial.
The judgment 'is reversed, and the cause remanded.for suck
furtherjoroceedings,not inconsistent with this qpinion, as
justice may require.

EX PARTE NORTON.
ORIGINAL.
Decided April 2d, 1883.

Appeal-Judgment--Mandamus.
A decree is final for the purposes of appeal when it terminates the litigation
between the parties, and leaves nothing to be done but to enforce the execution which has been determined. Several cases on this point decided at
this term referred to and approved.
An assignee in bankruptcy filed a bill to set aside, as fraudulent, conveyance
of real estate of the debtor made before the bankruptcy and a mortgage
put upon the same by the owner after the sale, and to restrain the foreclosure of the mortgage. The court denied the relief asked for, and ordered any
surplus that might remain above the"mortgage debt after sale or foreclosure,
to be paid to the complainant. The assignee appealed to the circuit court:
Held, That the decree appealed from was a final decree, disposing of the
litigation between the parties.

This was an application for a writ of mandamus to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, requiring that court to take jurisdiction of, and hear and

determine an appeal by the petitioner, Emery E. Norton, from
a decree of the district court of that district.
The case as presented shows that Norton, being assignee in

bankruptcy of Govy Hood, filed in the district court a bill in
equity against .Ho6d, the bankrupt, John Asberry, sheriff of
the Parish of East Carroll, and Henry Frellsen, setting forth
that Hood, being insolvent, in April, 1866, confessed a judg-

OCTOBER TERMNI, 1882.
Statement of Facts.

ment in favor of Frellsen for $39,319.49; that in July, 1868,
execution was issued on this judgment and levied on three
plantations belonging to Hood, known respectively as "Black
Bayou," "Home Place," and "I-Hood and Wilson Place;" that
on the 5th of September, 1868, there was a pretended sale of
these plantations to Frellsen under an execution issued on his
judgment for the sum of $24,000; that on the 23d of November, 1868, another execution was issued on the judgment and
levied on other property, which was also nominally sold under
the execution to Frellsen; that in December, 1869, the Black
Bayou plantation was sold to William Alling for $32,000, onehalf of which was paid in cash, and for the other half Frellsen
took from Ailing a half interest in the land; that in January,
1869, Hood was adjudged a bankrupt on his own petition, and
in January, 1871, received his discharge; that in May, 1871,
Frellsen reconveyed to Hood all the property he had bought
under the executions, except the Black Bayou plantation, for
$30,152, payable in seven instalments, and evidenced by mortgage notes; that all these transactions, except the sale of the
one-half of the Black Bayou plantation to Ailing, were a fraud
upon the bankrupt law, and devised for the purpose of giving
Frellsen an unlawful preference, and to keep the property from
the other creditors; that from the beginning it was the understanding between Hood and Frellsen that Frellsen should buy
the property under his judgment, hold it for Hood during the
bankruptcy proceedings, and then reconvey it to Hood, subject
only to any balance that might remain due upon the judgment,
after deducting the rents and profits and the proceeds of any
sales in the meantime received by Frellsen; and that all the
facts were unknown to Norton, the assignee, until certain disclosures were made on the trial of a suit between Frellsen and
Hood in the Thirteenth District Court of the Parish of East
Carroll, growing out of proceedings by Frellsen to foreclose
his mortgage notes received on the reconveyance of the property. It further appears that in the proceedings for foreclosure, Asberry, the sheriff, had been empowered to sell the
property reconveyed to Hood to pay what remained due on
the mortgage debt.

EX PARTE NORTON.
Statement of Facts.

The prayer of the bill of Norton, as stated in the petition for
mandamus, was that Norton "1be decreed to be the owner, in
his capacity as assignee of said bankrupt, of all the property
described in his said bill, from the 29th day of December, 1868
(when said Hood filed his petition to be decreed a bankrupt),
and entitled to recover the rents and revenues thereof from the
said Hood and Frellsen; that said Hood be ordered to transfer
to complainant the property reconveyed to him by said Frellsen as aforesaid; that the mortgage put upon the same by said
Hood in favor of said Frellsen be cancelled, annulled, and
erased, and the sale thereof, under said executory process foreclosing said mortgage, or any other process against said Hood,
be enjoined and prohibited; that said Frellsen be ordered and
decreed to convey to complainant one-half of the Black Bayou
plantation, which he had retained by some arrangement with
William Ailing, the purchaser, and to pay the complainant the
sum of $16,000, received from said Ailing for the sale of the
other half of said plantation, together with the interest thereon
from the date of said sale, and for general relief, process, &c."
Answers were fied and testimony taken. After hearing,
the district court entered a decree declaring "that the judgment in favor of Henry Frellsen against Govy Hood, in the
parish of Carroll, in the year 1866, and the executions thereunder in 1868, with the sales and conveyances by the sheriff,
as shown in the record, have been established as valid and
operative, and that no fraud, collusion, nor malpractice is established against him; that these proceedings entitle him to
the property so conveyed to him, discharged of any claim of
the plaintiff in this suit;" and further declaring "that whatever surplus may arise from the sale of the property under the
process in favor of Henry Frellsen,

.

.

which is described

in the plaintiff's bill and which is now held by the sheriff, and
has been levied on the plantations known as the Home Place
and Hood and Wilson Place, the said surplus shall not be paid
to the said Hood, but shall be paid to the oomplainant. . .
after deducting such costs as this court may decree shall be
paid out of the same." The injunction which had been allowed
restraining the sheriff from the execution of the process was

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Argument for Petitioner.

dissolved, and he was permitted to proceed, but was to dispose
of the surplus that might remain in his hands after the payment of the debt specified in the process as due to Frellsen,
and the costs of suit, as directed by the District Court of the
United States. Leave was granted the complainant to apply
for further orders regulating the sale in respect to time, and
appraisement and sale on credit, according to the laws of Louisiana. The sheriff was directed to make a return of his sale
to the District Court of the United States, and the question
of costs was reserved until the coming in of the return.
From this decree an appeal was taken to the circuit court,
where, on the 27th of -May, 1882, the appeal was dismissed on
the ground that the decree appealed from was not a final decree within the meaning of that term as used in the statute
regulating appeals from the district to the circuit court. The
writ now asked for is to require the circuit court to set aside
its order of dismissal and take jurisdiction.
.ifr. .D. Rouse for the petitioner.-I. This decree appealed
from is final. It disposes of the whole controversy. It is
decreed "that the judgment in favor of Henry Frellsen against
Govy Hood in the parish of Carroll, in the year 1866, and the
executions thereunder in 1868, with the sales and conveyances
by the sheriff, as shown in the record, have been established as
valid and operative, and that no fraud, collusion nor malpractice is established against him; that these proceedings entitle
him to the property so conveyed to him, dischargedfrom any
claim from the plaintifin this suit." This determined all the
issues between Norton and Frellsen in favor of the latter. It
disposed of the controversy between them. In the language of
Chief Justice Taney in Forgay v. Conrad: "It decided the
right to the property in contest."-II. The decree provides,
"that whatever surplus may arise from the sale of the property under the process in favor of Frellsen from the District
Court of East Carroll parish . . . shall not be paid to
the said Hood, but &hallbe paid to the complainant as assignee."
This fmnally disposes of Hood's right to such.surplus, and awards
the same to the complainant. It directs that it (the surplus)

EX PARTE NORTON.
Argument against Petitioner.

"be delivered up to the complainant," in the language of _Frgay v. Conrad. The petitioner is without remedy in the
premises, except by the aid of this court; and it is now well
settled that where, on an appeal from the district to the circuit
court, the latter court, without considering the exceptions or
errors assigned, dismisses the, cause for want of jurisdiction,
mandamus, and not error or appeal, is the proper remedy. Insurance Company v. Comstock, 16 Wallace, 258; Railroad
Compa y v. Wiswall, 23 Wallace, 507; Ex parteHoard, 105
U. S. 578; Exearte Bradstreet, 7 Pet. 634.
.31'. John A. Campbell, contra.
Unless the decree of the district court be final, an appeal is
not authorized, and this exception may be made in the Supreme
Court if the case shall reach that court. .Jfordecai v. Lindsay,
19 How. 199; .Xontgomery v. Anderson, 2 How. 386.-I11.
In this case the district court dissolved the injunction which it
had allowed to the plaintiff to operate upon a suit in the
District Court of Carroll parish, between Frellsen and Hood,
and which had been pending these several years, this plaintiff
never having been a party, and that suit was upon contracts
posterior to the discharge of Hood from bankruptcy. The
mere dissolution of this injunction is not the subject of revision
in any court on appeal
Verden v. Coleman, 18 How. 86;
Exsarte Schwab, 98 U. S. 240; Bufjngton v. Hawvey, 95 U. S.
99.-IV. The retention of control over the sheriff of Carroll
parish, the directions in respect to the sale and the distribution
of the price, and the reservation of the subject of costs and theavoidance of a decree to dismiss the bill against Frellsen, furnish satisfactory evidence that the district court had not designed to make a final decree at this date. Beebe v. Russell,
19 H. 283; Barnardv. Gibson, 7 How. 650 ; Cwushing v. -Laird,.
15 Blateh. 219, 236-8. The judge of the circuit court in May,.
1882, dismissed the appeal, because the decree of the districtcourt was not a final decree.-V. The question whether a de-cree be final or interlocutory is a judicial question, sometimes.
of difficulty, and requiring discrimination and judgment to
decide. The record shows that the decision was rendered after
voL. cvmu-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

argument and deliberation, and that the judgment has been acquiesced in for the remainder of the term in the circuit court in
1882, and until the early part of this year, when notice was
given of this motion. The question whether a court can exercise jurisdiction under the Constitution or laws, continually
arises, either upon a motion, a plea, a demurrer, or an appeal
or writ of error. It is involved in every judicial act. It has
not been considered that when the decision has been made in
court after argument, and that judgment recorded, that the
court can be ordered to justify its judgment, and that the litigation should be conducted between the plaintiff and the judge.
The authorities seem to be to the contrary of this. No mandamus is allowable. -Expwrte3rewman, 14 Wallace, 152, 165;
High on Extraordinary Remedies, §§ 188, 189, 190; The State
v. organ, 12 La. 118.
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We have had occasion at the present term, in Bostwick v.
Brinckerkof, 106 U. S. 3; Grant v. Phoenix .futual Life Ins.
Co., 106 IT. S. 429; St. Louis, Iron .AYountain & Southern

Bailway Co. v. Southern Express Co., ante, 24, to state the rule

applicable to the determination of the question here involved,
and we there say:
"A decree is final for the purpose of an appeal ....
when it terminates the litigation between the parties, and leaves
nothing to be done but to enforce by execution what has been
determined."
Under this rule, we think, this appeal was well taken. The
decree settled every question in dispute between the parties,
and left nothing to be done but to complete the sale under the
proceedings in the State court for foreclosure, and hand over
to Norton any surplus of the proceeds there might be after
satisfying the debt due Freilsen as stated in the process under
which the sale was made. The case stands precisely as it
would if Frellsen were proceeding in the district court for the
foreclosure of his mortgage, and a decree had been entered

DIS. OF COLUMBIA v. WAStINGTON MARKET CO. 243
Syllabus.

establishing his rights, ascertaining the amount due to him, and
ordering a sale of the property and the payment to Norton of
the surplus after discharging the mortgage debt. Here the bill
was filed by Norton to set aside the proceedings for foreclosure
and obtain a conveyance of the mortgaged property. The
court refused to set aside -the proceedings or to order a conveyance, but did order the sale to go on, and that the proceeds,
after the mortgage was satisfied, be paid to Norton. It adjudged the case on the merits in favor of Frellsen as against
Norton, and in favor of Norton as against Hood. The bill was
not dismissed in form because it asked relief both as against
Frellsen and Hood, and relief was granted as against Hood.
It was in legal effect dismissed as to Frelisen when the decree
was entered in his favor on all the questions in which he was
interested.
Mhe writ of rnandamus asked for is granted, but without

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA ,o. WASHINGTON MARKET

COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Decided April 9th, 1883.

Charitable Gift--Conract-Cororation
-Dislrict of Columba-Midence.
In May, 1870, Congress authorized the Washington Market Company to construct a market building on a tract in Washington between Pennsylvania and Louisiana avenues and B street, and between Seventh and
Ninth streets, then belonging to the United States, and to occupy the
same for a term of 99 years, paying a rental therefor to the city of
Washington of $25,000 a year. Buildings were to be constructed thereon
by the company, within a period named and in accordance with specified
plans. In 1871, some changes were made in the plans, and in March,
1873, no building having been erected, Congress authorized the governor
and ooard of public works of the District of Columbia (the successor of
the city), to erect a building for District offices and to "make arrangements to secure sufficient land fronting on Pennsylvania avenue between
Seventh and Ninth streets." Under this authority the market company
conveyed to the District a part of the tract described in the act of 1870;

