BASKET v. HASSELL.
Statement of Facts.

either. And yet the complainants assert the right to foreclose
them both-a claim that is self-contradictory, for, by the very
nature of the arrangement, it is impossible that there should be
a default as to both. The fact that one mortgagor had failed
to perform his part of the agreement could only be on the supposition that the other had not only fully performed it on his
part, but had paid that excess against which his co-surety had
agreed to indemnify him. There is, therefore, no right to the
subrogation insisted on, because there is nothing to which it
can apply.
It results, therefore, that the complainants were not entitled
to participate in the benefit of the mortgages in question, nor
to share in the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged premises;
but that the same should have been applied to the payment of
the other judgment and mortgage liens upon the premises, in
the order of their priority. The decree of -may29th, 1879,
therefore, being the one from which the appeal was taken, is
reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to take such
further proceedings therein, not inconsistent with this opinion,
as justice and equity require.
-Decreereversed.

BASKET v. HASSELL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE uwrrrxi STATES FoR
THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Decided April 16th, 1883.

Probate-Statutes-Will.
The attempted transfer of a certificate of deposit on the donor's death-bed, reported in .Basketv. Hassell, 107 U. S. 602, cannot be enforced here as a will
of personalty, oecause such will does not take effect under the statutes of
Tennessee until probate.

Motion for a rehearing. The case was decided at October
term, 1882, and is reported 107 U. S. 602.

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Argument for Appellant.

.Xr.P. Pkill ps and -Yr. T. Hallett Phillipsfor the appellant and petitioner.-We ask rehearing on a single point involved in the opinion of the court, viz., when the court say:
"As the gift was to take effect only upon the death of the
donor, it was not a present executed donatio causa mortis, but
a testamentary disposition, void for want of compliance with
the statute of wills." The gift was executed in the State of
Tennessee. In Tennessee there is no statutory provision
governing such a testamentary disposition-the principles of
the common law being there in force. Rev. Stat. Tenn. 1871,
ยง 2162, n; Suggett v. .ithell, 6 Yerger, 425. "The English
law (says Kent) is very loose as to the nature of the instrument
disposing of personal property; and marriage articles, promissory notes, assignments of bonds, letters, &c., &c., although not
intended as wills, yet if they cannot operate in one way, may
be admitted to probate as wills of personal property-provided
the intention of the deceased be clear that the instrument should
operate after his death," 4 Kent, 518. This is recognized to
be the law of Tennessee in the case of .3 cEean v. ) cEean,
citing the declaration of Lord Hardwicke: "There is nothing
which requires so little solemnity as a will of personal estate,
for there is scarcely any paper writing which the courts will
not enforce as such." 6 Hlumph. 452; TFatkins v. Dean, 10
Yerg. 321. "It is not to be doubted that a will of personal estate, if written in the testator's own hand, though it has neither
his name or seal to it, nor witnessespresent at itspublication, is
effectual, provided the handwriting can be sufficiently proved."
1 Roberts on Wills (1 Am. Ed.), p. 148; 2 Black. Com. 501,
cited in Sutggett v. _Zitchell, 6 Yerg., at p. 428. When, therefore, it is said that this disposition was void for want of compliance with the " statute of wills," it is evident that the court

fell into an error. If we have shown that there was here a
good testamentary disposition, then the decree must be reversed.
Less than a month after the decease of Chaney, the bill is ified
for the delivery to complainant of the certificate. This is resisted by defendant, by showing all the circumstances accompanying its indorsement and delivery. The court held there
was neither a donatio causa mortis nor a valid testamentary

ROUNDTREE v. SMITH.
Syllabus.

disposition, and decreed accordingly that the money should be
paid over to the complainant, Hassell. The case is the same
as it would be if the sole question presented was as to the testamentary disposition. The indorsement was urged by the complainant to constitute a testamentary paper. There was no
question as to probate, even if the defendant was under any
obligation to produce one. Tarver v. Tarver, 9 Pet. 174.
Were this the case'of a complainant seeking relief on a will not
probated, it would have been error in the court to have dismissed his bill absolutely. Armstrong v. Lear, 12 Wheat. 169.

:vm.

JUSTICE MATT'rHEWS

delivered the opinion of the court.

It is urged that the indorsement and delivery of the certificate of deposit, if void as a gift mortis causa, is nevertheless good
as a will of personalty under the laws of Tennessee, and, passing the title as such, entitled the appellant to a decree for the
payment of the money.
But the conclusion is not justified by the assumption, for
a will of personalty in Tennessee does not take effect until
probate (Statutes of Tennessee, 1871, ยง 2169; Suggett v. E'itckdl,
6 Yerger, 425); and, until probate and the appointment of an
executor or an administrator cum testamento anneo, the title
to the fund passes to the administrator appointed previously,
as in case of intestacy, to whom the decree in this case
awarded it.
Tle petition is therefore denied.

ROUNDTREE v. SMITH & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Decided April 16th, 1883.

Evidence.
When the question at issue is whether certain contracts for the sale and purchase of merchandise were gambling, and the defendant who impeaches

