MARYLAND v. WIRTZ.
Syllabus.

MARYLAND
APPEAL

ET AL. V. WIRTZ, SECRETARY
OF LABOR. ET AL.

FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 742.

Argued April 23, 1968.-Decided June 10, 1968.

The Fair Labor Standards Act, as enacted i 1938, required every
employer to pay each of his employees "engaged in commerce or
in the production of goods for commerce" certain minimum wages
and overtime pay. The definition of employer excluded States
and their political subdivisions. In 1961 the Act's coverage was
extended beyond employees individually connected to interstate
commerce to include all employees of certain "enterprises" engaged
in commerce or production for commerce. In 1966 the Act was
amended to cover certain hospitals, institutions, and schools, and
to modify the definition of (ml)oyer to remove the exemltion
of the States and their subdivisions with respect to employees of
hospitals, institutions, and schools. Appellants, 28 States and a
school district, sought to enjoin enforcement of the Act as it
applies to schools and hospitals operated. by the States 4r their
subdivisions. They argued that the "enterprise concept" of coverage and the inclusion of state-operated hospitals and schools
were beyond Congress' power under the Commerce Clause, that
the remedial provisions of the Act, if applied to the States, would
conflict with the Eleventh Amendment, and that school and
hospital enterprises do not have the statutorily required relationship to interstate commerce. A three-judge district court declined
to issue a declaratory judgment or allinjunction, and concluded
that the adoption of the "enterprise concept" and the extension
of coverage to state institutions do not, on the face of the Act,
exceed Congress' commerce power. That court declined to consider
the Eleventh Amendment and statutory relationship contentions.
Held:
1. The "enterprise concept" of coverage is clearly within the
power of Congress under the Commerce Clause. Pp. 188-193.
(a) A rational basis for Congress' finding the
sary to the protection of coinerce was the logical
the pay and hours of employees of an interstate
:are not produlction workers, as well as those who

scheme necesinference that
business who
are, affect an

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Syllabus.

392 U. S.

employer's competition with companies elsewhere. United States
v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, followed. Pp. 1SS-191.
(b) Another rational basis is the promotion of labor peace
by the regulation of wages and hours, subjects of frequent labor
disputes. Pp. 191-192.
(c) The class of employers subject to the Act, approved in
Darby, supra, was not enlarged by the addition of the "enterprise
concept." P. 193.
2. The commerce power provides a constitutional basis for extension of the Act to state-operated schools and hospitals. Pp.
193-199.
(a) Congress has "interfered with" state functions only to
the extent that it subjects a State to the same minimum wage
and overtime pay limitations as other employers whose activities
affect commerce. Pp. 193-194.
(b) Labor conditions in schools and hospitals can affect
commerce and are within the reach of the commerce power. Pp.
194-195.
(c) Where a State is engaging in economic activities that are
validly regulated by the Federal Government when engaged in
by private persons, the State may be forced to conform its activities to federal regulation. United States v. California, 297 U. S.
175. Pp. 195-199.
3. Questions concerning the States' sovereign immunity from
suit and whethdr particular state-operated institutions have'employees handling goods in commerce are reserved for appropriate
concrete cases. Pp. 199-201.
269 F. Supp. 826, affirmed.

Alan M. Wilner, Assistant Attorney General of Maryland, and Char.es Alan Wright argued the cause for
appellants. With Mr. Wilner on the brief for appellant
the State of Maryland et al. were the Attorneys General
for their respective States as follows: Francis B. Burch
of Maryland, Crawford C. Martin of Texas, MacDonald
Gallion of Alabama, Darrell F. Smith of Arizona, Joe
Purcell of Arkansas, Duke W. Dunbar of Colorado,
David Buckson of Delaware, Earl Faircloth of Florida,
Bert T. Kobayaghi of Hawaii, William G. Clark of Illinois, Richard C. Turtwr of Iowa, Robert C. Londerholm

MARYLAND v. WIRTZ.
183

Opinion of the Court.

of Kansas, James S. Erwin of Maine, Elliot L. Richardson
of Massachusetts, Joe 7'. Patterson of Mississippi, Norman H. Anderson of Missouri, Clarence A. H. Meyer of
Nebraska, Arthur J. Sills of New Jersey, Boston E. Witt
of New Mexico, T. Wade Bruton of North Carolina,
Helgi Johanneson of North Dakota, William B.. Saxbe
of Ohio, G. T. Blankenship of Oklahoma, Daniel R.
McLeod of South Carolina, Frank L. Farrarof South
Dakota, James L. Oakes of Vermontj Robert Y. Button
of Virginia, and James E. Barrett of Wyoming; and
A. J. Carubbi,Jr., Executive Assistant Attorney General
of Texas, Hawthorne Phillips, Assistant Attorney General of Texas, and James V. Noble, Assistant Attorney
General of New Mexico. With Mr. Wright on the brief
for appellant the State of Texas were Messrs. Martin,
Carubbi, and Phillips, and Nola White, First Assistant
Attorney General. Cecil A. Morgan filed a brief for

appellant Fort Worth Independent School District.
Solicitor General Griswold argued the cause for appellees. With him on the brief were Assistant Attorney
General Weisl, Louis F. Claiborne, John S. Martin, Jr.,
and Morton Hollander.

Briefs of amici curiae, urging affirmance, were filed by
J. Albert Woll, Laurence Gold, and Thomas E. Harris

for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of
Industrial Organizations, and by Henry Kaiser and
Ronald Rosenberg for the American Federation of State,
County, and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the
Court.

As originally enacted,' the Fair Labor Standards Act
of 1938 required every employer to pay each of his
employees "engaged in commerce or in the production
52 Stat. 1060.

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

of goods for commerce" I a certain minimum hourly wage,
and to pay at a higher rate for work in excess of a certain
maximum number of hours per week. The Act defined
the term "employer" so as to exclude "the United States
or any State or political subdivision of a State .

...

I

This case involves the constitutionality of two sets of
amendments to the original enactment.
In 1961, Congress changed the basis of employee coverage: instead of extending protection to employees individually connected to interstate commerce, the Act now
covers all employees of any "enterprise" engaged in commerce or production for commerce, provided the enterprise also falls within certain listed categories." In 1966,
Congress added to the list of categories the following:
"(4) is engaged in the operation of a hospital, an
institution primarily engaged in the care of the sick,
the aged, the mentally ill or defective who reside on
the premises of such institution, a school for the
mentally or physically handicapped or gifted children, an elementary or secondary school, or an insti2

§§ 6 (a), 7 (a), 52 Stat. 1062, 1063.

§ 3 (d), 52 Stat. 1060.
minimum wage requirement, 29 U. S. C. § 206 (1964 ed.,
Supp. II), now reads as follows: "(a) Every employer shall pay to
each of his employees who in any workweek is engaged in commerce
or in the production of goods for commerce, or is employed in an
enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for
commerce, wages at the following rates .... ." The maximum hours
requirement, 29 U. S. C. § 207 (1964 ed., Supp. II), now contains,
a similar definition of covered employees. The 'term "enterprise
engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce"
is defined by 29 U. S. C. § 203 (s) (1964 ed., Supp. II) to mean
"an enterprise which has employees engaged in commerce or in the
production of goods for commerce, including employees handling,
selling, or otherwise -working on goods that have been moved in or
produced for commerce by any person, and which-[falls in any
one of four listed categories] ....
.'The

MARYLAND v. WIRTZ.
183

Opinion of the Court.

tution of higher education (regardless of whether or
not such hospital, institution, or school is public or
private or operated for profit or not for profit)."
At the same time, Congress modified the definition of
"employer" so as to remove the exemption of the States
and their political subdivisions with respect to employees
of hospitals, institutions, and schools.'
The State of Maryland. since joined by 27 other States
and one school district, brought this action against the
Secretary of Labor to enjoin enforcement of the Act
insofar as it now applies to schools and hospitals operated by the'States or their subdivisions. The plaintiffs
made four contefitions. They argued that the expansion
of coverage through the "enterprise concept" was beyond
the power of Congress under the Commerce Clause.
They contended that coverage of state-operated hospitals
and schools was also beyond the commerce power. They
7
asserted that the remedial provisions of the Act, if
applie4i, to the States, would conflict with the Eleventh
Amendment. Finally, they urged that even if their constitutional arguments were rejected, the court should
declare that schools and hospitals, as enterprises, do not
have the statutorily required relationship to interstate
commerce.
A three-judge"district court, convened pursuant to 28
U. S. C. § 2282, declined to issue a declaratory judgment
or an injunction.8 Three opinions were written. Judges
Winter and Thomsen. constituting the majority, concluded for different reasons that the adoption of the
"enterprise concept" of coverage and the extension of
coverage to state institutions could not be said, on the
580 Stat. 832, 29 U. S. C. §203 (s) (4) (1964 ed.,. Supp. II).
680 Stat. 831, 29 U. S. C. §203 (d) (1964 ed., Supp. II).
S29 U. S. C. §§ 216 (b), 216 (c), 217.
269 F. Supp. 826.

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

face of the Act, to exceed Congress' power under the
Commerce Clause. Both declined to consider the Eleventh Amendment and statutory contentions. Judge
Northrop dissented, concluding that the amendments
exceeded the commerce power because they transgressed
the sovereignty of the States.
We noted probable jurisdiction of the plaintiffs' appeal,
389 U. S. 1031. For reasons to follow, we affirm the
judgment of the District Court.
I.
We turn first to the adoption in 1961 of the "enterprise concept." Whereas the Act originally extended to
every employee "who is engaged in commerce or in the
production of goods for commerce," it now protects every
employee who "is employed in an enterprise engaged in
commerce or in the production of goods for commerce." 1
Such an enterprise is defined as one which, along with
other qualifications, "has employees engaged in commerce
or in the production of goods for commerce .... ." 0 Thus
the effect of the 1961 change was to extend protection
to the fellow employees of any employee who would have
been protected by the original- Act, but not to enlarge
the class of employers subject to the Act.
. In United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, this Court
found the original Act a legitimate exercise of congressional power to regulate commerce among the States.
Appellants accept the Darby decision, but contend that
the extension of protection to fellow employees of those
originally covered exceeds the commerce power. We
conclude, to the contrary, that the constitutionality of
the "enterprise concept" is settled by the reasoning
of Darby itself and is independently established by
principles stated in other cases.
929 U. S. C. §§ 206 (a), 207 (a) (1964 ed., Supp. II).
10 29 U. S. C. § 203 (s) (1964 ed., Supp. II).

MARYLAND v. WIRTZ.
183

Opinion of the Court.

Darby involved employees who were engaged in producing goods for commerce. Their employer contended
that since manufacturing is itself an intrastate activity,
Congress had no power to regulate the wages and hours
of manufacturing employees. The first step in the
Court's answer was clear: "[Congress may] by appropriate legislation regulate intrastate activities where they
have a substantial effect on interstate commerce."
The next step was to discover whether such. a "substantial effect" existed. Congress had found that substandard wages and excessive hours, when imposed on
employees of a company shipping goods into other States,
gave the exporting company an advantage over companies in the importing States. Having so found, Congress decided as a matter of policy that such an advantage
in interstate competition was an "unfair" one, and one
that had the additional undesirable effect of driving down
labor conditions in the importing States. - This Court
was of course concerned only with the finding of a substantial effect on interstate competition, and not with
11,312 U. S., at 119. The Act prohibited both the interstate
transportation of goods produced under substandard labor conditions, and the maintenance of such conditions themselves. The first
prohibition, a restraint on commerce itself, was upheld against the
contention that its real motive or purpose was to regulate manufacturing. The language quoted in the text answered a challenge to
the second prohibition.
"'Section 2 of the Act, 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 202, reads in
part as fqows:
"The Congress hereby finds that the existence, in industries engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, of
labor conditions detrimental to the maintenance of the minimum
standard of living necessary for health, efficiency, and general wellbeing of workers (1) causes commerce and the channels and instrumentalities of commerce to be used to spread and. perpetuate such
labor conditions am6ng the workers of the several States; (2) burdens
commerce and the free flow of goods in commerce; (3) constitutes
an unfair method of competition in commerce ..

OCTOBER TERM., 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

the c6nsequent policy decisions. In accepting the congressional finding, the Court followed principles of judicial review only recently rearticulated in Katzenbach v.
McClung, 379 U. S. 294, 303-304:
"Of course, the mere fact that Congress has said
when particular activity shall be deemed to affect
commerce does not preclude further examination
by this Court. But where we find that the legislators . . . have a rational basis for finding a chosen
regulatory scheme necessary to the protection of
commerce, our investigation is at an end." 11
There was obviously a "rational basis" for the logical
inference that the pay and hours of production employees
affect a company's competitive position.
The logical inference does not stop with production
employees. When a company does an interstate business, its competition with companies elsewhere is affected
by all its-significant labor costs, not merely by the wages
and hours of those employees who have physical contact
with the goods in question. Consequently, it is not surprising that this Court has already explicitly recognized
that Congress' original choice to extend the Act only to
certain employees of interstate enterprises was not constitutionally compelled; rather, Congress decided, at that
time, "not to enter areas which it might have occupied
3In Katzenbach v. McClung, it appeared that Congress had
undertaken extensive investigation of the commercial need for the
statute there involved. A major contention of the appellants in
the present case is that the legislative history of the amendments
now before us lays no factual predicate for extensions of the original
Act. To the extent that this is.true, it is quite irrelevant. The
original Act stated Congress' findings and purposes as of 1938.
Subsequent extensions of coverage were presumably based on similar
findings and purposes with respect to the areas newly covered.
We are not concerned with'the manner in which Congress reached

its factual conclusions.

.MARYLAND v. WIRTZ.
1S3

Opinion of the Court.

[under the commerce power]." Kirschbaum Co. v.
JWalling, 316 U. S. 517. 522.
The "enterprise concept" is also supported by a wholly
different line of analysis. In the original Act. Congress
stated its finding that substandard labor conditions
tended to lead to labor disputes and strikes, and that
when such strife disrupted businesses involved in interstate commerce, the flow of goods in commerce was itself
-affected.14 Congress therefore chose to promote labor
peace by regulation of subject matter, wages, and hours,
out of which disputes frequently arise. This objective
is particularly relevant where, as here.'" the enterprises in
question are significant importers of goods from other
States.
Although the Court did not examine this second objective in Darby, other cases have found a "rational basis"
for statutes regulating labor conditions in order to protect interstate commerce from labor strife. The National
Labor Relations Act

'" had

been passed because

"[t]he denial by employers of the right of employees
to organize and the refusal by employers to accept
the procedure of collective bargaining lead to strikes
and other forms of industrial strife or unrest, which
have the intent or the necessary effect of burdening
or obstructing commerce . ... 17
In Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin, 301 U. S. 1, this
Court held that the -National Labor Relations Act
(NLRA) was within the commerce power. The essence
of the decision was contained in two propositions: "the
stoppage of those [respondent's] operations by industrial
14 Section 2, 29 U. S. C. § 202, declares in part tht the existence
of substandard labor conditions "leads to labor disputes burdening
'
and obstructing commerce and the free flow of goods in commerce. "
1, See infra, at 164-195.
16 49 Stat. 449, as amended, 29 U. S. C. § 151 et seq.
17 § 1, 49 Stat. 449.

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

strife would have a most serious effect upon interstate
commerce," id., at 41; and "[e]xperience has abundantly
demonstrated that the recognition of the right of employees to self-organization and to have representatives
of their own choosing for the purpose of collective bargaining is often an essential condition of industrial peace."
Id., at 42.

The Fair Labor Standards Act, including the present
"enterprise" definition of coverage, may also be supported
by two propositions. One is identical with the first
proposition supporting the NLRA: strife disrupting an
enterprise involved in commerce may disrupt commerce.
The other is parallel to the second proposition supporting the NLRA: there is a basis in logic and experience
for the conclusion that substandard labor conditions
among any group of employees, whether or not they
are personally engaged in commerce or production, may
lead to strife disrupting an entire enterprise.
Whether the "enterprise concept" is defended on the
"competition" theory or on the "labor dispute" theory,
it is true that labor conditions in businesses having only
a few employees engaged in commerce or production may
not affect commerce very much or very often. Appellants therefore contend that defining covered enterprises
in terms of their employees is sometimes to permit "the
tail to wag the dog." However, while Congress has in
some instances left to the courts or to administrative
agencies the task of determiniig whether commerce is
affected in a particular instance, Darby itself recognized
the power of Congress instead to declare that an entire
class of activities affects commerce. 8 The only question
for the courts is then whether the class is "within the
reach of the federal power." 1' The contention that in
8312 U. S., at 120-121.
19 Ibid.

MARYLAND v. WIRTZ.
IS3

Opinion of the Court.

Commerce Clause cases the courts'have power to excise;
as trivial. individual instances falling within a rationally
defined class of activities has been put entirely to rest.
Wickard v. Filburn, 317 U. S. 111, 127-128; Polish Alliance v. Labor Board, 322 U. S. 643, 648; Katzenbach v.
McClung, supra, at 301. The class of employers subject
to the Act was not enlarged by the addition of the enterprise concept. The definition of that class is as rational
now as it was when Darby was decided.
II.
Appellants' second contention is that the commerce
power does not afford a constitutional basis for extension of the Act to schools and hospitals operated by the
States or their subdivisions. Since the argument is made
in terms of interference with "sovereign state functions,"
it .is important to note exactly what the Act does. Although it applies to "employees," the Act specifically
exempts any "employee employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity. (including
any employee employed in the capacity of academic
administrative personnel or teacher in elementary or secondary schools) ....
,"
We assume, as did the District Court,' that medical personnel are likewise excluded
from coverage under the general language. The Act
establishes only a minimum wage and a maximum limit
of, hours unless overtime wages are paid, and does not
otherwise affect the way in which school and hospital
duties are performed. Thus appellants' characterization
of the question in this case as whether Congress may,
under the guise of the commerce power, tell the States
how to perform medical and educational functions is not
factually accurate. Congress has "interfered with" these
20 29 U. S. C. § 213 (1) (1964 ed., Supp. II).
21

See 269 F. Supp., at 832 (opinion of Judge Winter).

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

state functions only to the extent of providing that when
a State employs people in performing such functions it
is subject, to the same restrictions as a wide range of
other employers whose activities affect commerce, including privately operated schools and hospitals.22
It is clear that labor conditions in schools and hospitals can affect commerce. The facts stipulated in this
case indicate that such institutions are major users of
goods imported from other States. For example:
"In the current fiscal year an estimated $38.3
billion will be spent by State and local public educational institutions in the United States. In the
fiscal year 1965, these same authorities spent $3.9
billion operating public hospitals ...
"For Maryland, which was stipulated to be typical of the plaintiff States, 87% of the $8 million
spent for supplies and equipment by its public school
system during the fiscal year 1965 represented direct
interstate purchases. Over 55'/, of the $576,000
spent for drugs, x-ray supplies and equipment and
hospital beds by the University of Maryland Hospital and seven other state hospitals were out-ofstate purchases."
22

In the court below, Judge Thomsen was troubled by the appli-

cation of the overtime provisions to school and hospital personnel,
who may have different arrangements for hours of work than
employees of other enterprises. 269 F. Supp., at 851. Congress
indicated its attention to this problem in 29 U. S. C. §207 (1964
ed., Supp. II), which provides special means of computing hospital
overtime. That this provision may seem to some inadequate, and
that no similar provision was made in the case of schools, are matters
outside judicial cognizance. The Act's overtime provisions apply
to a wide range of enterprises, with differing patterns of worktime;
they were intended to change some of those patterns. It is not for
the courts to decide that such changes as may be required are beneficial in the case of some industries aud harmful in others.
23269 F. Supp., at 833 (opinion of Judge Winter).

MARYLAND v. WIRTZ.
l~q3

Opinion of lie Court.

24
Similar figures were suplied for other States.Strikes
and work stoppages involving employees of schools and
hospitals, events which unfortunately are not infrequent,:2 ' obviously interrupt and burden this flow of goods
across state lines. It is therefore clear that a "rational
basis" exists for congressional action prescribing minimum labor standards for schools and hospitals, as for
other importing enterprises. "6
Indeed, appellants do not contend that labor conditions in all schools and hospitals are without the
reach of the commerce power, but only that the Act
may not be constitutionally applied to state-operated
institutions because that power must yield to state sovereignty in the performance of governmental functions.
This argument simply is not tenable. There is no general

"doctrihe implied in the Federal Constitution that
'the two governments, national and state, are each
to exercise its powers so as not to interfere with the
free and full exercise of the powers of the other.'
Case v. Bowles, 327 U. S. 92, 101.
In the first place, it is clear that the Federal Government, when acting within a delegated power, may override countervailing state interests whether these be
described as "governmental" or "proprietary" in character. As long ago as Sanitary Districtv. United States,
266 U. S. 405, the Court put to rest the contention that
state concerns might constitutionally "outweigh" the importance of an otherwise valid federal statute regulating
See ibid.
See U. S. Department of Labor, Summary Release, Work Stoppages Involving Government Employees, 1966.
201 Both under the present Act and the National Labor Relations
Act, numerous cases have held that the engagement of an enterprise
in interstate commerce may consist of importation. E. g., .Wirtz N.
Hardin & Co., 253 F. Supp. 579, aft'd, 359 F. 2d 792 (FLSA);
N. L. R. B. v. Baker Hotel, 311 F. 2d 528 (NLRA).
24
25

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

commerce. Congress had imposed statutory limits on the
diversion of water from Lake Michigan. A unanimous
Court, speaking through Mr. Justice Holmes, declared
that the sanitary district's alleged need for more water
than federal law allowed was "irrelevant" because federal
power over commerce is "superior to that of the States
to provide for the welfare or necessities of their inhabitants." Id., at 426. See Oklahoma v. Atkinson Co.,
313 U. S. 508.
There remains, of course, the question whether any
particular statute is an "otherwise valid regulation of
commerce." This Court has always recognized that the
power to regulate commerce, though broad indeed, has
limits. Mr. Chief Justice Marshall paused to recognize
those limits in the course of the opinion that first staked
out the vast expanse of federal authority over the economic life of the new Nation. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 194-195. Mr. Chief Justice. Hughes, speaking
only one Term after he delivered the opinion for the
Court in Jones & Laughlin, supra, put the matter thus:
"The subject of federal power is still 'commerce,' and
not all commerce but commerce with foreign nations
and among the several States. The expansion of
enterprise has vastly increased the interests of interstate commerce but the constitutional differentiation
still obtains." Santa Cruz Co. v. Labor Board, 303
U. S. 453, 466.
The Court has ample power to prevent what the appellants purport to fear, "the utter destruction of the State
as a sovereign political entity." 2
But while the commerce power has limits, valid general regulations of commerce do not cease to be regula27 The dissent suggests that by use of an "enterprise concept"
such as that we have upheld here, .,Congress could under today's
decision declare a whole State an "enterprise" affecting commerce
and take ove- it, biidgeting activities. This reflects, we think, a

MARYLAND v. WIRTZ.
IS:1

Opinion of the Court.

tions of commerce because a State is involved.

If a

State is engaging in economic activities that are validly
regulated by the Federal Government when engaged in
by private persons, the State too may be forced to conform its activities to federal regulation. This was settled
by the unanimous decision in United States v. California,
297 U. S. 175. The question was whether a railroad,
operated by the State, and entirely within the State,
as a nonprofit venture for the purpose of facilitating
transportation at a port, was nevertheless subject, like
other railroads, to the Safety Appliance Act. The Court
first held that although the railroad operated only between points in California, it was within the reach of
federal regulation of interstate rail transportation. 297
U. S., at 181-183. The Court then proceeded to consider
the claim that the State "is not subject to the federal
Safety Appliance Act," and reasoned as follows:
"[W]e think it unimportant to say whether the
state conducts its railroad in its 'sovereign' or in its
misreading of the Act, of l'ickard v. Filburn,
decision. The Act's definition of "enterprise"
follows:
"'Enterprise' means the related activities
through unified operation or common control)

supra, and of our
reads in part as
performed (either
by any person or

persons for a common business purpose . . .but shall not include
the related activities performed for such enterprise by an independent contractor .... ." 29 U. S. C. §203(r).
We uphold the enterprise concept on the explicit premise that an
.enterprise" is a set of operations whose aetivities in commerce

would all be expected to be affected iy the walres and hours of any
group of employees, which is what Congress obviously intended.
So defined, the term is quite cognizant of liinitations on the

commerce power. Neither here nor in lVickard has the Court
declared that Congress may use a relatively trivial impact on commerce as an excuse for broad general regulation of state or private
activities. The Court has said only that where a general regulatory statute bears a substfltial relation to commerce, the de nummi.s
character of individual instances arising under that statute is of no

consequence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

'private' capacity.

That in operating its railroad it
is acting within a power reserved to the states can-

not be doubted. The only question we need consider is whether the exercise of that power, in whatever capacity, must be in subordination to the power
to regulate interstate commerce, which has been
granted specifically to the national government.
The sovereign power of the states is necessarily
diminished to the extent of the grants of power to
the federal government in the Constitution.
."[Wc
look to the activities in which the states
have traditionally engaged as marking the boundary
of the restriction upon the federal taxing power.
But there is no such limitation upon the plenary
power to fegulate commerce. The state can no more
deny the power if its exercise has been authorized by
Congress than can an individual." 297 U. S., at
183-185 (citations omitted).
See also Board of Trustees v. United States, 289 -U. S.
48, where the Court rejected a claim of "state sovereignty" and held that a state university that imported
scientific apparatus from abroad could be made to payimport duties imposed pursuant to the power over foreign
commerce.
The principle of United States v. California is controlling here. Appellants' argument that the statute
involved there was somewhat more directly and obviously a regulation of "commerce," and that the state
activity involved there was less central to state sovereiguty, misses the mark. This Court has examined and
w-ill continue to examine federal statutes to determine
whether there is a rational basis for regarding them as
regulations of commerce among the States. But it will
not carve up the commerce power to protect enterprises

MARYLAND v. WIRTZ.
183

Opinion of the Court.

indistinguishable in their effect on commerce from private businesses, simply because those enterprises happen
to be run by the States for the benefit of their citizens?
III.
Appellants raise two further issues, both of which the
District Court found it inappropriate to explore fully
in a declaratory judgment proceeding. We agree. In
each case we conclude that no showing has been made
that warrants declaratory or injunctive relief. In neither
instance, however, do we mean to preclude future consideration on the facts of individual cases.
The first question is whether the Act violates the
States' sovereign immunity from suit guaranteed by the
Eleventh Amendment. 29 The Act provides as follows:
"Any employer who violates the provisions of
section 206 [wages] or section 207 [hours] of' this
title shall be liable to the employee or employees
affected in the amount of their unpaid minimum
wages, or their unpaid overtime compensation as
the case may be, and in an additional equal amount
as liquidated damages. Action to recover such liability may be maintained in any court of competent
jurisdiction ....
" 29 U. S. C. § 216 (b).
The Act also provides for suits by the Secretary of Labor
to recover, unpaid minimum wages or overtime compen'Nor is it relevant that Congress originally chose to exempt all
state enterprises and later partially removed that exemption. Congress was as free to include state activities within the general regulation at a later date as it would have been to omit the exemption in
the first place.
29 "The Judicial power of the United States shall not be construed
to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted
against one of the United States by Citizens of another State, or by
Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign State."

OCTOBER TERM. 1967.
Opinion of the' Court.

:392 U. S.

sation, 29 U. S. C. § 216 (e) and for injunctive relief
against violations, 29 U. S. C. § 217.
Percolating through each of these provisions for relief
are interests of the United States and )roblems of iiniunity, agency, and consent to suit. Cf. Parde v. Terminal R. Co., 377 U. S. 184. The constitutionality of
applying the substantive requirements of the Act to the
States is not, in our view, affected by the possibility that
one or more of the remedies the Act provides might not
be available when a State is the employer-defendant.
Particularly in light of the Act's "separability" provision,
29 U. S. C. § 219, we see no reason to strike down otherwise valid portions of the Act simply because other portions might not be constitutional as applied to hypothetical future eases. At the same time, we decline to
be drawn into an abstract discussion of the numerous
complex issues that might arise in connection with the
Act's various remedial provisions. They are almost impossible and most unnecessary to resolve in advance of
particular facts, stated claims, and identified plaintiffs
and defendants. Questions of state immunity are therefore reserved for appropriate future cases.
Appellants' remaining contention presents similar
problems. In order to be covered by the Act,- an employer hospital or school must in fact have
"erpployees engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, including employees
handling, selling, or otherwise working on goods that
have been moved in or.produced for commerce by
any person .

. .

."

29 U. S. C. § 203 (s) (.1964 ed.,

Supp. II).
Appellants ask us to declare that hospitals and schools
simply have no such employees. The word "goods" is
elsewhere defined, to exclude "goods after their delivery
into the actual physical possession of the ultimate consumer thereof other than a producer, manufacturer, or

MARYLAND v. WIRTZ.
1S

DOUCLAS,

J., dissenting.

processor thereof." 29 U. S. C. § 203 (i). Appellants
contend that hospitals and schools are the ultimate consumers of the out-of-state products they buy, and hence
none of their employees handles "goods" in the statutory
sense.
We think the District Court was correct in declining
to decide, in the abstract and in general, whether schools
and hospitals have employees engaged in commerce or
production. Such institutions, as i ,whole, obviously
purchase a vast range of out-of-state commodities.
These are put to a wide variety of uses, presumably
ranging from physical incorporation of building materials into hospital and school structures, to over-thecounter sale for cash to patients, visitors, students, and
teachers. Whether particular institutions have employees handling goods in commerce, cf. Valling v.
Jacksonville Paper Co., 317 U. S.564, may be considered
as occasion requires.
The judgment of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE MARSHALL took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

with whom MR. JUSTICE
concurs, dissenting.
The Court's opinion skillfully brings employees of
state-owned enterprises within the reach of the Commerce Clause; and as an exercise in semantics it is unexceptionable if congressional federalism is the standard.
But what is done here is nonetheless such a serious
invasion of state sovereignty protected by the Tenth
Amendment that it is in my view not consistent with
our constitutional federalism.
The case has some of the echoes of New York v. United
States, 326 U. S. 572, where a divided Court held that
MR.

JUSTICE

STEWART

DOUGLAS,

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
DOUOLAS, .J., dissenting.

392 U. S.

the Federal Government could tax the sale of mineral
waters owned and marketed by New York. My dissent
was in essence that the decision made the States pay the
Federal Government "for the privilege of exercising the
powers of sovereignty guaranteed them by the Constitution." 326 U.S.. at 596.
The present federal law takes a much more serious
bite. The 1966 amendments to the Fair Labor Standards Act require the States to pay school and hospital
employees a minInum wage escalating to $1.60 per hour
in 1971.1 As a general rule, the amendments make the
States pay their employees who work over 40 hours a
week overtime compensation of 11, times their regular
wage.2 There are civil sanctions against the State and
its political subdivisions,' and state officials may, apparently, be subjected to criminal penalties.' The impact is pervasive, striking at all levels of state government. As Judge Northrop said in his dissent below.
269 F. Supp. 826, 853:
"By this Act Congress is forcing, under threat of
civil liability and criminal penalties, the state legislature or the responsible political subdivision of the
state
"1. to increase taxes (an impossibility in some
of the political subdivisions without a state constitutional amendment); or
"2. to curtail the extent and calibre of- services in
the public hospitals and educational and related
institutions of the state; or
1 29 U. S. C. §§ 203 (d), 206 (b)
(1964 ed., Supp. II).
229 U. S. C. § 207 (b) (1964 ed., Supp. II). Special rules are
applicable to hospitals under § 207 (j) based on an 80-hour, 14-day
work period. No special rules apply to school employees. See discussion of the overtime pay provisions by Chief Judge Thomsen, 269
F. Supp., at 851-852.
'29 U. S. C. §§ 203 (d), 216 (b).
.29 U. S. C. §§ 203 (a), 215, 216 (a).

MARYLAND v. WIRTZ.
183

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

"3. to reduce indispensable services in other governmental activities to meet the budgets of those
activities favored by the United States Congress; or
"4. to refrain from entering new fields of governmental activity necessitated by changing social
conditions."
There can be no doubt but that the 1966 amendments
to the Fair Labor Standards Act disrupt the fiscal policy
of the States and threaten their autonomy in the regulation of health and education. Yet, the Court considers
it irrelevant that these federal regulations are to be
enforced against sovereign States and limits its consideration to "whether there is a rational basis for regarding them as regulations of commerce among the States."
The States are not totally immune from federal regulation under the commerce power of Congress. Parden
v. Terminal R. Co., 377 U. S. 184, and United Stat'es v.
California,297 U. S.175, subjected state-owned railroads
to the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 45 U. S. C.
§ 51 et seq., and the Safety Appliance Act, 45 U. S. C.
§ 1 et seq.; Board of Trustees v. United States, 289
U. S. 48, required a state university to pay federal customs duties on educational equipment it imported. In
Oklahoma v. Atkinson Co., 313 U. S. 508, the Federal
Government was permitted to condemn 100,000 acres
of state land for a reservoir to control commerce-paralyzing floods. In Sanitary District v. United States,
266 U. S. 405, a State was prohibited from diverting
water from the Great Lakes necessary to ensure navigability, a phase of commerce.
In none of these cases, however, did the federal regulation overwhelm state fiscal policy. It is one thing
to force a State to purchase safety equipment for its
railroad and another to force it either to spend several
million more dollars on hospitals and schools or substantially reduce services in these areas. The commerce

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
,..,
n.
J)w(jiSSt-j ijut.

I)owerI' ClseS the (Iltt

392 U. S.

relies on are simply not apropos.

In the area of taxation, on the other hand, the Court
has recognized that the constitutional scheme of federalism imposes limits on the power of the National
Government to tax the States. E. g., New York v.
United States, 326 U. S. 572. The Court will not permit
the Federal Government to utilize the taxing power to
snuff out state sovereignty, Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell,
269 U. S. 514, recognizing that the power to tax is the
power to destroy... M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316, 431. The exercise of the commerce power may"also
destroy state sovereignty. All activities affecting commerce, even in the minutest degree, lVickard v. Filburn,
317 U. S. 111, may be regulated and controlled by Congress. Commercial activity of every stripe may in some
way interfere "with the [interstate] flow of merchandise" or interstate travel. Katzenbach v. McClung, 379
U. S. 294, 299-300. The immense scope of this constitutional power is demonstrated by the Court's approval
in this case of regulation on the basis of the "enterprise
concept"-which is entirely proper when the regulated
"businesses" are not essential functions being carried on
by the States.
Yet state government itself is an "enterprise" with a
very substantial effect on interstate commerce, for the
States spend billions of dollars each year on programs
that purchase goods from interstate commerce, hire employees whose labor strife could disrupt interstate commerce, and act on such commerce in countless subtle
ways. If constitutional principles of federalism raise no
limits to the commerce power where regulation of state
activities are concerned, could Congress compel the
States to build superhighways erisscrossing their territory in order to accommodate interstate vehicles, to provide inns and eating places for interstate travelers, to
quadruple their police forces in order to prevent

MARYLAND v. WIRTZ.
I11

.DoU GLAS, J., dissenting.

commerce-crippling riots, etc.? "Could the Congress virtually draw up each State's budget to avoid "disruptive
effect[s] . . on commercial intercourse."? Atlanta
Motel v. United States, 379 U. S. 241, 257.
If all this can be done, then the National Government
could devour the essentials of state sovereignty, though
that sovereignty is attested by the Tenth Amendment.
The principles which should guide us in this case are
set forth in the several opinions in New York v. United
States, supra. As Mr. Chief Justice Stone said there, the
National Government may not "interfere unduly with
the State's performance of its sovereign functions of
government." 326 U. S., at 587. it may not "impair
the State's functions of government," id., at 594 (dissenting opinion of IR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, joined by
MR.

JUSTICE BLACK).

As Mr. Justice Frankfurter ob-

served, "[tihere are, of course, State activities . . . that
partake of uniqueness from the point of view of intergovernmental relations." Id., at 582.
Whether, in a given case, a particular commerce power
regulation by Congress of state activity is permissible
depends on the facts. The Court must draw the "constitutional line between the State as government and
the State as trader . . . ." New York v. United States,
supra, at 579 (opinion of Mr. Justice Frankfurter). ' In
this case the State as a sovereign power is being seriously tampered with, potentially crippled.
I would reverse the judgment-below.

