OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Syllabus.

392 U. S.

UNIFORMED SANITATION MEN ASSN., INC.,
ET AL. v. COMMISSIONER OF SANITATION
OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 823.

Argued May 1, 1968.-Decided June 10, 1968.

In .onnection with an investigation of improper activities by New
York City sanitation employees the individual petitioners, fifteen
sanitation employees, were summoned before the Commissioner of
Investigation and advised that, if they. Fefused to testify with
redpect to their official conduct on the groind of self-incrimination,
their employment would ter'minate, in accordance with § 1123 of
the City Charter. Twelve asserted the privilege against self-incrimination and refused to testify, after being told that their
answers could be used against them in subsequent proceedings.
They were dismissed. on the, basis of that refusal. Three employees who answered the questions and denied the charges made
against them wei suspended, and then called before a grand
jury and asked to sign waivers of immunity. Upon their refusal
to do so they were dismissed on the ground that they violated
§ 1123 by refusing to sign the waivers. The Federal District
Court dismissed petitioners' action. for a declaratory judgment and injunctive relief based on the alleged wrongful discharge in violation of their constitutional rights, and the Court of
Appeals affirmed. Held: Petitioners as public employees are entitled, like all other persons, to the benefit of the constitutional
privilege against self-incrimination and they may not be faced with
proceedings which, as here, presented them' with a choice between
surrendering their constitutional rights or their jobs. Gardner v.
froderick, ante, p. 273. Public employees are subject to dismissal
If they +efuse to account for the performance of their public trust
ffer proper proceedings which do not involve an attempt to coerce
them to relinquish their constitutional rights. Pp. 283-285.
383 F. 2d 364, reversed.

Leonard B. Boudin argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs was Victor,Rabinowitz.

SANITATION MEN v. SANITATION COMM'R. 281
280

Opinion of the Court.

Norman Redlich argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were J. Lee Rankin and John J.
Loflin.
MR. JUSTICE FORTAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
The individual petitioners are 15 employees of the
Department of Sanitation of New York City. Claiming
they were wrongfully dismissed from employment in
violation of their rights under the United States Constitution, they commenced this action for declaratory judgment and injunctive relief in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York. That court
dismissed the action and the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit affirmed., 383 F. 2d 364 (1967). We
granted certiorari. 390 U. S.919 (1968).
Sometime in 1966, the Commissioner of Investigation
of New York City 1 began an investigation of charges
that employees of the Department of Sanitation were
not charging private cartmen proper fees for use of certain city facilities and were diverting to themselves the
proceeds of fees that they did charge. The Commissioner obtained an order from the Supreme Court in New
York County authorizing him to tap a telephone leased
by the Department of Sanitation for the tran~saction of
official business at the city facilities in question.
In November 1966 each of the petitioners was summoned before the Commissioner. Each was advised that,
in accordance with § 1123 of the New York City Charter,
1

Section 803, subd. 2, of the New York City Charter provides that
the Commissioner "[i]s authorized and empowered to make any study
or investigation which in his opinion may be in the best interests ol
the city, including but not limited to investigations of the affairs,
functions, accounts, methods, personnel or efficiency of any agency."
2
This order was pursuant to § 813-a of the Code of Criminal
Procedure of New York. See Berger v. New York, 388 U. S. 41
(1967).

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the, Court.

392 U. S.

if he refused to testify with respect to his official conduct
or that of any other city employee on the grounds of
self-incrilnination, his employment and eligibility for
other city employment would terminate.$
Twelve of the petitioners, asserting the constitutional
pivilege against self-incrimination, refused to testify.
ATter a disciplinary hearing held pursuant to § 75 of the
New York Civil Service Law, they were dismissed by
the Commissioner of Sanitation on the explicit ground
provided by § 1123 of the City Charter that they had
refused to testify.
Thrie of the petitioners answered the questions put
to them, denying the charges made. They were thereafter suspended by the Commissioner of Sanitation on
the basis of "information received from the Commissioner of Investigation concerning irregularities arising
out of [their] employment in the Department of Sanitation." Subsequently) they were summoned before a
grand jury and asked to sign waivers of immunity. They
refused. Administrative hearings were held pursuant to
§ 75 of the Civil Service Law, and they were dismissed
from employment on the sole ground that they had
Section 1123 of the New York City Charter provides:
"If any councilman or other officer or employee of the city shall, after
lawful notice or process, wilfully refuse or fail to appear before any
court or judge, any legislative committee, or any officer, board or body
authorized to conduct any hearing or inquiry, or having appeared
1 refuse to testify or to answer any question regarding the property, government or affairs of the city or of any county included within
its. territorial limits, or regarding the nomination, election, appointment or official conduct of any officer or employee of the city or of any
such county, on the ground that his answer would tend to incriminate him, or shall refuse to waive immunity from prosecution on
account of. any such matter in relation to which he may be askred
to testify upon any suco hearing or inquiry, his term or tenure of
offkwo or employment shall terminaxe and such office or employment
shall be vacant, and he shall not be eligible to election or appointment
to any office or employment under the city or any agency."

SANITATION MEN v. SANITATION COMM'R. 283
280

-

Opinion of the Court.

violated § 1123 of the City Charter by refusing to sign
waivers of immunity. We consider only the dismissal,
rather than the suspension, of these petitioners.
Relying upon the decision of the New York Court of
Appeals in Gardner v. Broderick, 20 N. Y. 2d 227, 229
N. E. 2d 184 (1967) (reversed this day, ante, p. 273), the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held that the
dismissal of petitioners did not offend the Federal Constitution. For the reasons which we elaborate in our
opinion reversing the New York court's decision in Gardner v. Broderick, supra,we hold that the Court of Appeals
erred.
Petitioners were not discharged merely for refusal to
account for their conduct as employees of the city. They
were dismissed for invoking and refusing to waive their
constitutional right against self-incrimination. They
were discharged for refusal to expose themselves to criminal prosecution based on testimony which they would
give under compulsion, despite their constitutional privilege. Three were asked to sign waivers of immunity
before the grand jury. Twelve were told that their
answers to questions put to them by the Commissioner
of Investigation could be used against them in subsequent proceedings,' and were discharged for refusal to
4The
Commissioner said:
"Mr. [name of witness], this is a private hearing being conducted
by the Department of Investigation of the City of New York, pursuant to Chapter 34, of the New York City Charter. The investigation in which you are about to testify relates particularly to the
affairs, functions, accounts, methods, personnel and efficiency of the
Department of Sanitationof the City of New. York. I wish to advise
you that you have all the rights and privileges guaranteed by the
laws of the State of New York and the Constitutions of this Otate
and of the United States, including the right to remain silent and
the right not to be compelled to be a witness against yourself. I wish
further to advise you that anything you say can be used against you
in a court of law. You have the right to have an attorney present

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

answer the questions on this basis. Garrity v. New
Jeraey, 385 U. S. 493 (1967), in which we held that
testimony compelled by threat of dismissal from employment could not be used in a criminal prosecution of the
witness, had not been decided when these 12 petitioners
were put to their hazardous choice. In any event, we
need not decide whether these petitioners would have
effectively, waived this constitutional protection if they
had testified following the warning that their testimony
could be used against them. They were entitled to
remain silent because it was clear that New York was
seeking, not merely an accounting of their use or abuse
of their public trust, but testimony from their own lips
which, despite the constitutional prohibition, could be
used to prosecute them criminally. 5
As we stated in Gardner v. Broderick, supra, if New
York had. demanded that petitioners answer questions
specifically, directly, and narrowly relating to the performance of their official duties on pain of dismissal
from public employment without requiring relinquishment of the benefits of the constitutional privilege, and
if they had refused to do so, this case would be entirely different. In such a case, the employee's right
to immunity as a result of his compelled testimony would
not be at stake. But here the precise and plain impact
of the proceedings against petitioners as well as of
§ 1123 of the New York Charter was to present them
with a choice between surrendering their constitutional
rights or their jobs. Petitioners as public employees are
entitled, like all other persons, to the benefit of the Conat this hearing, if you wish, and I understand that you are represented by counsel in the person of [name, of attorney], is that
correct?"

- (Emphasis

added.)

5As we noted in Gardner v. Broderick, supra, at 278-279, the
possible ineffectiveness of this waiver does not change the fact that

the State attempted to force petitioners, upon penalty of loss of employment, to relinquish a right guaranteed them by the Constitution.

SANITATION MEN v. SANITATION COMM'R. 285
280

HALN, J., concurring in result.

stitution, including the privilege against self-incrimination. Gardner v. Broderick, supra; Garrity v. New Jersey, supra. Cf. Murphy v. Waterfront Commission, 378
U. S. 52, at 79 (1964). At the same time, petitioners,
being public employees, subject themselves to dismissal
if they refuse to account for their performance of their
public trust, after proper proceedings, which do not involve an attempt to coerce them to relinquish their constitutional rights.
Accordingly, the judgment is reversed.'
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the result.
whom MR. JUSTICE STEWART
joins, concurring in the result.*
Given in combination the decisions in Spevack v. Klein,
385 U. S. 511, and Garrity v. New Jersey, 385 U. S. 493,
I can find no solidly acceptable course for me to take ihl
these cases other than to concur in the judgments rendered by the Court. I do so with a good deal less
reluctance than would otherwise have been the case because, despite the distinctions which are sought to be
drawn between these two cases, on the one hand, and
Spevack and Garrity,on the other, I find in these opinions
a procedural formula whereby, for example, public officials may now be discharged and lawyers disciplined for
refusing to divulge to appropriate authority information
pertinent to the faithful performance of their offices.
I add only that this is a welcome breakthrough in what
Spevack and Garritymightotherwise have been thought
to portend.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

.

6 In view of our disposition of the case, we do not reach the issues
raised by petitioners with respect to the wiretap.
*This opinion applies also to No. 635, Gardner v. Broderick, ante,
p. 273.

