GARDNER v. BRODERICK.
Syllabus.

GARDNER v. BRODERICK, POLICE
COMMISSIONER OF THE CITY

OF NEW YORK,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 635.

Argued April 30, 1968.-Decided June 10, 1968.

Appellant, a police officer, was subpoenaed by and appeared before a
grand jury which was investigating alleged bribery and corruption
of police officers, and was advised that the grand jury proposed to
examine him concerning the performance of his official duties. He
was advised of his privilege against self-incrimination, but was
asked to sign a "waiver of immunity" after being told that he
would be fired if he did not sign. He refused to do so, was
given an administrative hearing, and was discharged solely for
his refusal, pursuant to ยง 1123 of the New York City Charter.
The New York Supreme Court dismissed his petition for reinstatement and the New York Court of Appeals affirmed, holding
that Garrity v. New Jersey, 385 U. S. 493, was not controlling,
and distinguishing Spevack v. Klein, 385 U. S. 511 (both decided
after appellant's discharge). Held: If appellant, a policeman,
had refused to answer questions directly relating to the performance of his official duties, without being required to waive his
immunity with respect to the use of his answers or the fruits thereof
in a criminal prosecution of himself, Garrity, supra, the privilege
against self-incrimination would not have been a bar to his dismissal. However, his dismissal solely for his refusal to waive the
immunity to which he is entitled if he is required to testify despite
his constitutional privilege, and the New York City Charter
provision pursuant to which he was dismissed, cannot stand.
Pp. 276-279.
20 N. Y. 2d 227, 229 N. It. 2d 184, reyersed.

Ronald Podolsky argued the cause and filed briefs for
appellant.
J. Lee Rankin argued the cause for appellees. With
him on the brief were Norman Redlich, Stanley Buchsbaum, and Robert T. Hartmann.

274

7 OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

Michael J. Silverberg filed a brief for the Patrolmen's
Benevolent Association of the City of New York, Inc., as
amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE FORTAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellant brought this action in the Supreme Court
of the State of New York seeking reinstatement as a
New York City patrolman and back pay. He claimed
he was unlawfully dismissed because he refused to waive
his privilege against self-incrimination. In August 1965,
pursuant to subpoena, appellant appeared before a New
York County grand jury which was investigating alleged
bribery and corruption of police officers in connection
with unlawful gambling operations. He was advised
that the grand jury proposed to examine him concerning
the performance of his official duties. He was advised
of his privilege against self-incrimination,1 but he was
asked to sign a "waiver of immunity" after being told
that he would be fired if he did not sign.2 Following
I The Assistant District Attorney said to appellant:
"You understand .

.

. that under the Constitution of the United

States, as well as the Constitution of New York, no one can be
compelled to testify against himself, and that he has a right, the
absolute right to refuse to answer any questions that would tend
to incriminate him?"
2 Appellant was told:
"You understand .

.

. that under the Constitution of New York,

as well as the Charter of the City of New York,... a public
officer, which includes a police officer, when called before a Grand
Jury to answer questions concerning the conduct of his public
office and the perfor..ance of his duties is required to sign a waiver
of immunity if he wishes to retain that public office?"
The document appellant was asked to sign was phrased as follows:
"I . . . do hereby waive all benefits, privileges, rights and immunity
which I would otherwise obtain from indictment, prosecution, and
punishment for or on account of, regarding or relating to any matter,
transaction or things, concerning the conduct of my office or the

GARDNER v. BRODERICK.
273

Opinion of the Court.

his refusal, he was given an administrative hearing and
was discharged solely for this refusal, pursuant to ยง 1123
of the New York City Charter
performance of my official duties, or the property, government or
affairs of the State of New York or of any county included within
its territorial limits, or the nomination, election, appointment or
official conduct of any officer of the city or of any such county,
concerning any of which matters, transactions or things I may testify
or produce evidence documentary or otherwise, before the [blank]
Grand Jury in the County of New York, it. the investigation being
conducted by said Grand Jury."
3 That section provides:
"If any councilman or other officer or employee of the city shall, after
lawful notice or process, wilfully refuse or fail to appear before an,%
court or judge, any legislative committee, or any officer, board or body
authorized to conduct any hearing or inquiry, or having appeared
shall refuse to testify or to answer any question regarding the
property, government or affairs of the city or of any county included
within its territorial limits, or regarding the nomination, election,
appointment or official conduct of any officer or employee of the
city or of any such county, on the ground that his answer would
tend to incriminate him, or shall refuse to waive immunity from
prosecution on account of any such matter in relation to which
he may be asked to testify upon any such. hearing or inquiry, his
term or tenure of office or employment shail terminate and such office
or employment shall be vacant, and he shall not be eligible to election
or appointment to any office or employmenit under the city or any
agency."
Section 6 of Article I of the New York Constitution provides:
"No person shall .be . . . compelled in any criminal case to be a
witness against himself, providing, that any public officer who, upon
being called before a grand jury to testify concerning the conduct
of his present office . . .or the performance of his official duties . . .
refuses to sign a waiver of immunity against subsequent criminal prosecution, or to answer any relevant question concerning such matters
before such grand jury, shall by virtue of such refusal, be disqualified
from holding any other public office or public employment for a
period of five years . . . and shall be removed fibm his present office
by the appropriate authority or shall forfeit his present office at the
suit of the attorney-general."

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

The New York Supreme Court dismissed his petition
for reinstatement, 27 App. Div. 2d 800, 279 N. Y. S. 2d
150 (1967), and the New York Court of Appeals affirmed.
20 N. Y. 2d 227, 229 N. E. 2d 184 (1967). We noted
probable jurisdiction. 390 U. S. 918 (1968).
Our decisions establish beyond dispute the breadth of
the privilege to refuse to respond to questions when the
result may be self-incriminatory, and the need fully to
implement its guaranty. See Spevack v. Klein, 385 U. S.
511 (1967); Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547,
585-586 (1892); Albertson v. SACB, 382 U. S. 70, 80
(1965). The privilege is applicable to state as well as
federal proceedings. Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U. S. 1
(1964); Murphy v. Waderfront Commission, 378 U. S.
52 (1964). The privilege may be waived in appropriate circumstances if the waiver is knowingly and voluntarily made. Answers may be compelled regardless
of the privilege if, there is .immunity from federal and
state use of the compelled testimony or its fruits in connection with a criminal prosecution against the person
testifying. Counselman v. Hitchcock, supra, at 585-586;
Murphy v. Waterfront Commission, supra, at 79.
The question presented in the present case is whether
a policeman who refuses to waive the protections which
the privilege gives him may be dismissed from office
because of that refusal.
About a year and a half after New York City discharged petitioner for his refusal to waive this immunity,
we decided Garrity v. New Jersey, 385 U. S. 493 (1967).
In that case, we held that when a .policeman had been
compelled to testify by the threat that otherwise he
would be removed from office, the testimony that he gave
could not be used against him in a subsequent prosecution. Garrity had not signed a waiver of immunity and
no immunity statute was applicable in the circumstances.

GARDNER v. BRODERICK.
273

Opinion of the Court.

Our holding was summarized in the following statement

(at 500):
"We now hold the protection of the individual under
the Fourteenth Amendment against coerced statements prohibits use in subsequent criminal proceedings of statements obtained under threat of
removal from office, and that it extends to all,
whether they are policemen or other members of our
body politic."
The New York Court of Appeals considered that
Garrity did not control the present case. It is true that
Garrity related to the attempted use of compelled testimony. It did not involve the precise question which is
presented here: namely, whether a State may discharge
an officer for refusing to waive a right which the Constitution guarantees to him. The New York Court of
Appeals also distinguished our post-Garrity decision in
Spevack v. Klein, supra. In Spevack, we ruled that a
lawyer could not be disbarred solely because he refused
to testify at a disciplinary proceeding on the ground that
his testimony would tend to incriminate him. The Court
of Appeals concluded that Spevack does not control the
present case because different considerations apply in the
case of a public official such as a policeman. A lawyer,
it stated, although licensed by the state is not an employee. This distinction is now urged upon us. It is
argued that although a lawyer could not constitutionally
be confronted with Hobson's choice between self-incrimination and forfeiting his means of livelihood, the same
principle should not protect a policeman. Unlike the
lawyer, he is directly, immediately, and entirely responsible to the city or State which is his employer. He owes
his entire loyalty to it. He has no other "client" or
principal. He is a trustee of the public interest, bearing

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the, Court.

392 U. S.

the burden of great and total responsibility to his public
employer. Unlike the lawyer who is directly responsible
to his clienti the policeman is either responsible to the
State or to no one.'
We agree that these factors differentiate the situations.
If appellant, a policeman, had refused to answer questions specifically, directly, and narrowly relating to the
performance of his official duties,, without being required
to waive his immunity with respect to the use of his
answers or the fruits thereof in a criminal prosecution
of himself, Garrity v. New Jersey, supra, the privilege
against self-incrimination would not have been a bar to
his dismissal.
The facts of this case, however, do not present this
issue. Here, petitioner was summoned to testify before
a grand jury in an investigation of alleged criminal conduct. He was discharged from office, not for failure to
*answer relevant questions about his official duties, but
for refusal to waive a constitutional right. He was dismissed for failure to relinquish the protections of the
privilege against self-incrimination. The Constitution
of New York State and the City Charter both expressly
provided that his failure to do so, as well as his. failure
to testify, would result in dismissal from his job. He
was dismissed solely for his refusal to waive the immunity to which he is entitled if he is required to testify
despite his constitutional privilege. Garrity v. New
Jersey, supra.
We need not speculate whether, if appellant had
executed the waiver of immunity in the circumstances,
the effect of our subsequent decision in Garrity v. New
Jersey, supra, would have been to nullify the effect of
4

Cf. Spevack v. Klein, supra, at 519-520 (concurring in judgment).

5The statements in my separate opinion in Spevack v. Klein,
supra, at 519-520, to which the New York Court of Appeals referred,
are expressly limited to situations of this kind.

GARDNER v. BRODERICK.
273

Opinion of the Court.

the waiver. New York City discharged him for refusal
to execute a document purporting to waive his constitutional rights and to permit prosecution of himself on
the basis of his compelled testimony. Petitioner could
not have assumed-and certainly he was not required
to assume-that he was being asked to do an idle act
of no legal effect. In any event, the mandate of the
great privilege against self-incrimination does not tol-erate the attempt, regardless of its ultimate effectiveness,
to coerce a waiver of the immunity it confers on penalty
of the loss of employment. It is clear that petitioner's
testimony was demanded before the grand jury in part
so that it might be used to prosecute him, and not solely
for the purpose of securing an accounting of his performance of his public trust. If the latter had been the only
purpose, there would have been no reason to seek to
compel petitioner to waive his immunity.
Proper regard for the history and meaning of the
privilege against self-incrimination,' applicable to the
-States under our decision in Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U. S.
1 (1964), and for the decisions of this Court,' dictate
the conclusion that the provision of the New York City
Charter pursuant to which petitioner was dismissed cannot stand. Accordingly, the judgment is.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concurs in the result.

[For opinion of MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, concurring in the
result, see post, p. 285.]

6See Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. S. 436, 458-466 (1966), and
authorities cited therein.
7See, e. g., Griffin v. California, 380 U. S. 609 (1965); Malloy v.
Hogan, supra.
312-243 0 - 69 - 21

