Dec. 1872.]

THE OAYUGA.
Statement of the case.

The conclusion to which we have come is, that the judgment must be REVERSED, with directions to award a
VENIRE DE WOVO.

THE CAYUGA.
1. Where, on a reference by a District Court sitting in admiralty to asses
the damages done by a collision, the master after taking depositions re
ports a certain sum as due, but is not requested by the respondents it.
the case to return the testimony or his finding of facts into court, aniq
though returning certain parts of the testimony, does not return th i
whole, nor any finding of facts, and the court confirms his report an I
enters a decree accordingly-a decree affirmed by the Circuit Court- this court cannot, in the absence of the testimony and where the recoid
does not afford any satisfactory statement of facts to enable it to determine that there is any error in the report of the commissioner, review
that matter.
2. A steamer condemned in damages for an accident occurring to her tow,
which she was taking round a dangerous point with a very long hawser.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York; the case as appearing from the weight of testimony being thus:
The Cayuga, a steamer engaged in towing canal-boats
upon the Hudson River, took, on the 25th of May, 1867, the
canal-boat Floating Battery, loaded with sand, in tow at
Albany, to be brought to New York. The whole tow of
the steamer consisted of thirty canal-boats and two barges,
the latter being from .150 to 200 feet astern of the former.
The canal-boats were placed in six tiers, each consisting of
five boats, the Floating Battery being the starboard boat
of the hindmost tier, bringing her the nearest to the west
shore.
The distance from her to the Cayuga was about 1000 feet.
Upon the first night out, the Floating Battery was brought
in contact with a lighthouse near Coxsackie, with such force
that her lines parted and she was separated from the tow.
She was replaced, however, in her old position by the aid
VOL.

xvI.

12

THE CAYUGA.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

of a passing steamer without much difficulty. After this
she leaked a little, "about as much in twenty-four hours as
a man could pump out in an hour." The evidence was
clear that prior to this accident she was uncommonly dry
and free from leaking. On the morning of the 28th of May,
at about 12J o'clock-the canal-boat having been but a short
time before pumped out-as the steamer with her tow was
rounding West Point, the canal-boat struck something (a
submerged rock the libellants alleged), upon her starboard
side, with such force as to throw her captain, who was lying
down in the cabin, out of his berth, and-the blow being
cause the boat to strike her coma "sagging blow "-to
panion upon its port side with great violence, sending the
latter against its neighbor. At this time the canal-boat was
not more than ten feet from the rocks upon the west shore;
"'so near that a man could have jumped from her upon those
rocks."
As soon as the captain could gain his feet, he rushed upon
deck, and being convinced that the boat was sinking, he and
the bowman went immediately into the cabin for the purpose of securing their personal effects. When they reached
it they heard the water rushing into the boat, and before
they had procured their clothes the water was upon the
cabin floor.
The helm was then lashed to port to send the boat to
shore. By this time she had sunk so rapidly that the water
was rushing in at the cabin windows, within a few inches of
the deck. This was only two or three minutes after the
blow. The lines connecting her with the next boat were
thken cut, her men stepping upon the boat upon her port side.
Two witnesses, standing upon the next boat to the canalboat which was struck, close to her, who were not interested
in any way in the cause, testified positively that they saw
her sink stern foremost. No horn was blown after the canalboat received her blow, nor any lantern swung: the usual
signals from a vessel in tow to her steamer when desiring
aid. The steamer did not stop, and her officers knew nothing of the accident to the canal-boat until the next morning.

Dec. 1872.]

THE OAYUGA.
Argument for the steamer.

A light that had been seen on the canal-boat, it appeared,
bad been seen for a considerable time, perhaps half an hour,
after the accident. The only light, however, on the canalboat was from a sheet-iron stove, which weighed about fifty
pounds, and was placed upon a movable galley, not fastened
to the deck. When the boat sank, the galley might have
floated, the stove not being heavy enough to sink it.
The owners of the canal-boat having libelled the steamer
in the District Court at Kew York, that court entered a decretal order in favor of the libellants and referred the cause
to a commissioner to assess the damages. He took depositions and reported the value of the boat and cargo at,
$2329.92. The owners of the steamer excepted to the
amount allowed, but they did not state what would have
been a fair allowance for either boat or cargo, nor did they
request the commissioner to report the evidence or his finding of the facts.
Some testimony was given in the record as having been
taken before the commissioner, but it was not certified that
it was all that was put before him. The District Court confirmed the report of the commissioner and entered a final
decree in favor of the libellants. The owners of the steamer
thereupon appealed to the Circuit Court, where the decree
of the District Court was affirmed. They then appealed to
this court, and the case was here upon the same testimony
as that introduced in the courts below.
[r. Van Santvoord, for the appellants, sought from an ingenious collocation of the evidence to show that the vessel
bad not struck a rock near the shore as the steamer turned
at West Point, or that if she did, she certainly did not sink
immediately, as two of the witnesses had testified. Her
light had confessedly been seen for half an hour after the accident, which showed that these witnesses could not possibly
have spoken the truth. She was therefore afloat for some
minutes after the accident.
In these contracts for towing, says Lord Kingsdown, delivering the opinion of the court in Privy Council, in The

THE CAYUGA.

[Sup. Cto

Argument for the canal-boat.

Julia,* the law implies al engagement that each vessel will
perform its duty in completing it; that proper skill and diligence would be used on board each; and that neither vessel
by neglect or misconduct would create unnecessary risk to
the other, or increase ally risk which might be incidental
to the service undertaken. The obligation of the steamer to
complete her contract, or to do what might be necessary to
save the boat towed not being discharged by an accidental
interruption or injury,t the cutting the boat loose without
such notice or alarm, if not an act creating unnecessary risk
to the steamer, was an act greatly increasing the risk inci-,
dental to the service undertaken by the steamer. And this
clear breach of duty is not less available as a defence, even
if it were doubtful whether such notice would have been of
any avail.1
In addition, the master of the canal-boat, in cutting her
loose without any signal by swinging a light or other effectual alarm to the steamer of her condition, was clearly guilty
of negligence and breach of duty, which should be held to
release the steamer of any obligation which she would otherwise have been under to take the requisite measures to provide for the safety of the canal-boat and to discharge the
steamer from the damages consequent upon the loss of the
boat and the cargo thereafter.
The learned counsel, relying on the evidence that had
come up in the record as to the value of the canal-boat and
cargo, argued that the sum given by the commissioner was
excessive; that if the owners of the steamer were liable at
all, they were not liable for so much (being the greater part
thereof) as might have been saved by reasonable notice to
the persons in charge of the steamer of her condition, when
measures would have been taken to save, if not the whole
boat and cargo, at least some part of them.
Mrr. J. C. Carter, contra, contended that the case was a
clear one. The steamer in rounding a dangerous point, and
t The Annapolis, lb. 355.
Cramer v. Allen, 5 Blatchford's Circuit Court, 248; and see luddle v.
Stride, 9 Carrington & Poyne, 880.
* 1 Lushington's Admiralty, 224-231.

Dec. 1872.]

THE CAYUGA.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

doubtless in a critical state of the tide, had let a very large
and, of course, unmanageable tow follow with too long a
hawser. The sinking in two or three minutes was testified
to positively, and any light that had been on the boat which
was seen for half an hour after the blow, was one floating on
her galley after she had sank.
As to the other point, the damages on their face were not
unreasonable. Moreover, the record does not present enough
evidence for this court to review them.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Damages are claimed in this case by the owners of the
canal-boat Floating Battery, against the steamboat Cayuga,
in a cause of tort civil and maritime, for the loss of the canalboat and her cargo, consisting of two hundred and twentyfive tons of moulding sand, which the libellants had engaged
to transport from the port of Albany and to deliver in the
city of New York to certain consignees.
Employed as the steamboat was in towing boats and
barges between those ports, the owners of the canal-boat,
on the twenty-fifth of May, 1867, applied to the agent of the
steamboat to take the canal-boat in tow, and he undertook
and contracted to tow the canal-boat, as requested, to her
piort of destination; and it is alleged that the steamboat, in
4he evening of that day, took the canal-boat, with other
")oats and barges, in tow, and proceeded down the river in
execution of the contract. Besides the canal-boat of the
libellants the steamboat had twenty-nine other canal-boats
in tow, and two barges, the canal-boats being arranged in
six tiers of five boats each, the canal-boat of the libellants
being the starboard boat of the hindmost tier, and nearest
to the west shore. By the record it appears that the whole
six tiers of canal-boats were towed by hawsers from the stern
of the steamboat extending aft from eighty to one hundred
fathoms, which were fastened to the foremost tier of the
canal-boats, showing that the canal-boat of the libellants was
more than a thousand feet astern of the steamboat when the
whole were in motion, as the canal-boats are about a hundred

THE

CAYUGA.

[Sup. Ck

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

feet in length. All the canal-boats except the first tier were
propelled by lines from the stern of the canal-boat immediately ahead, and they were kept in their places by breastlines. Arranged as described the steamboat with her tow,
including also two barges of a larger class than the canalboats, and propelled by long hawsers extending aft from the
stern of the steamboat a distance of a hundred and fifty feet
further than the last tier of the canal-boats, proceeded down
the river; but it appears that the canal-boat of the libellants
was brought in contact, during the first night of the trip,
with a lighthouse in the river, with such force that her lines
parted and she was separated for a time from the other canalboats of her tier. Prompt measures were adopted to pick
her up, and she was soon, by the aid of another steamer, replaced in her former position as the starboard canal-boat in
the sixth tier of the tow. Prior to that accident the evidence
is clear and undisputed that the canal-boat of the libellants
was stanch, tight, and in every respect in good condition,
but she received some injuries by the collision, causing her
to leak a little, making it necessary to use her pump, say for
an hour once in twenty-four hours, showing that she was
still seaworthy and not disabled. On the morning of the
third day of the trip, about half-past twelve o'clock, as the
steamboat, with her thirty canal-boats and two barges in
tow, was rounding West Point, the canal-boat of the libellants struck some object in the water, her starboard side
coming in contact with it with such force as to throw her
master from his berth, in which he was lying, and to cause
the boat to careen and strike the boat on her port side, sending the latter against the next boat in the same tier with
great violence. Injuries of a very serious character were
occasioned by the accident to the canal-boat of the libellants.
Her planks below the water-line on the starboard side were
broken to such an extent that she filled with water with
such rapidity as to prevent the master and bowman from
securing their clothing, which was below, and to cause the
canal-boat with her cargo on board to sink in two or three
minutes. Process was issued and served and the respond-

Dec. 1872.]

Tim CAYUGA.
Opinion of the court.

ents appeared and filed an answer. Testimony was taken,
and the District Court entered a decretal order in favor of
the libellants and referred the cause to a commissioner to
compute the amount of the damages. Hearing was had before the commissioner and he reported that the damages
amounted to $2329.92.
Exceptions were taken by the respondents to the amount
allowed by the commissioner as the value of the canal-boat,
and also to the charge for the value of the cargo, but they
do not state what would have been a proper allowance for
either charge, nor did the respondents request the commissioner to report the evidence or his finding of the facts.
Certain testimony is given in the record as having been
taken before the commissioner, but it is not certified that it
is all the testimony introduced before him, nor does the
transcript afford any satisfactory statement of facts to enable
the court to determine that there is any error in the report
of the commissioner. Pursuant to that view, doubtless, the
District Court confirmed the report of the commissioner and
entered a final decree in favor of the libellants, and the respondents appealed to the Circuit Court, where the decree
of the District Court was affirmed. Whereupon the respondents appealed to this court and now submit the case
upon the same testimony as that introduced in the subordinate courts, and ask to have the decree of the Circuit
Court reversed.

Most of the material facts touching the merits are either
admitted by the respondents or so fully proved as to supersede all necessity for much discussion of any such topic.
They admit that their agent undertook and agreed to tow
the canal-boat of the libellants from the port of departure to
her port of destination, and that having undertaken to perform the stipulated service they were under obligation to,
see that it was performed with ordinary and reasonable care
and skill, and that they would be liable if they or those in
charge of the steamboat were guilty of any such negligcnce
in the performance of that duty as caused the loss of the

THE C AYUGA

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

canal-boat and her cargo. Conceding all that, still they
deny that they or those in charge of the steamboat are responsible for the disaster, but contend that the same was
caused either by the unseaworthiness of the canal-boat, or
the neglect and fault of her crew or those in charge 6'her,
in not using her pumps, or in failing to stop some leak, or
other neglect or fault of those parties for which the respondents are not responsible. Mismanagement and fault are imputed to those in charge of the canal-boat as follows: that
they cut the canal-boat loose from the other boats in the tier
as the steamboat with her tow rounded West Point, and
while she was proceeding down the river in her proper
course, and the charge is that they did the act from an apprehension that the canal-boat was in a sinking condition,
and without any notice or alarm to the steamboat or to
those intrusted with her navigation; and they deny that the
steamboat was so navigated as to cause the canal-boat of the
libellants to strike against the rocks at that place, or that
her bottom or side was broken by any such casualty as that
alleged in the libel, or that those in charge of the steamboat
were guilty of any fault, negligence, or carelessness. Such
denials cannot avail the respondents, as the evidence to
prove the allegations of the libel is full and satisfactory and
abundantly sufficient to show that the decision of the subordinate courts is correct.
Attempt is made in argument to convince the court that
considerable time elapsed after the canal-boat of the libellants was cut loose from the other canal-boats in the same
tier before she sunk, as tending to show that the final disaster was attributable to the mismanagement of those in
charge of the canal-boat in cutting the lines which held her
in the tow. Having lashed her helm to port they cut the
lines which held her in her position that she might go
ashore, which it seems would in all probability have occurred if the canal-boat had continued to float, but the evidence satisfies the court that she filled with water and sank
before there was time for any such hope to be realized. Inferences of an opposite character are drawn by one or two

Dec. 1872.]

SMITH v. ADSIT.
Statement of the case.

witnesses of the respondents, but they have no actual knowledge upon the subject, as is clear from their own statement.
They infer that the canal-boat continued to float down the
river for some time after she received the injuries because
they saw, as they suppose, a light floating upon the water,
which it is quite as probable was a light on the shore or the
light in the galley of the canal-boat, as that, not having been
fastened to the deck, might not have been submerged in the
disaster to the canal-boat and her cargo.
Suffice it to say that the evidence that the canal-boat sunk
in two or three minutes from the time she received the injuries described is such as to convince the court that it
is true, and that the statements of the other witnesses, not
being founded upon actual knowledge, are not sufficient to
support the allegations of the answer.
Nothing further need be remarked in respect to the charge
that the master of the canal-boat was guilty of mismanagement, as it is clear that the charge is without any support,
and it is quite clear that the exceptions are not of a character
to enable the court to review the findings of the master.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SMITH v. ADSIT.
1. *Where a complainant setting out a case in the highest State court, for
equitable relief against a sale, which a third party had undertaken to
make of land, alleged that the party in making the sale had violated
an act of Congress, and that the sale was therefore null and void, and
the State court dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction; held, that
although the question whether the sale was not a nullity might have
been presented, yet that the case having been dismissed below for want
of jurisdiction, it did not appear that a Federal question had been decided, much less that it had been decided adversely to the complainant.
2. Independently of this, whatever might have been the reasons for the decision, the question whether the State court had jurisdiction of the case,
was a question exclusively for the State tribunals.
8 Held, accordingly, that no jurisdiction existed here in such a case under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, or the act of February
5th, 1867, amendatory of it.

ON motion to dismiss, for want of jurisdiction, a writ of

