Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.

1277

Statement of the case.

So neither can it be worse. Upon this ground we place our
judgment.
We think the doctrine we have laid down is sustained by
reason, principle, and the greater weight of authority.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the case remanded with directions

to enter a decree
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.

1. A creditor has reasonable cause to believe his debtor ccinsolvent" in the
sense of the Bankrupt Act, when such a state of facts is brought to his
notice respecting the affairs and pecuniary condition of his debtor, as
would lead a prudent business man to the conclusion that he, the debtor,
is unable to meet his obligations as they mature in the ordinary course
of business.
2. A debtor "suffers" or "procures" his property to be seized on execution,
when, knowing himself to be insolvent, an admitted creditor who has
brought suit against him-and who he knows will, unless he applies for
the benefit of the Bankrupt Act, secure a preference over all other creditors-proceeds in the effort to get a judgment until one has been actually
got by the perseverance of him the creditor and the default of him the
debtor.
R Such effort by the creditor to get a judgment; and such omission by the
debtor to "invoke the protecting shield of the Bankrupt Act" in favor
of all his creditors, is a fraud on the Bankrupt Act, and invalidates any
judgments obtained.
4. The fact that the debtor, just before the judgments were recovered, may
have made a general assignment which he meant for the benefit of all
his creditors equally, does not change the case. Such assignment is a
nullity.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of New York, where the proofs, as conceived by the reporter, made a case essentially thus:

The Cascade Paper Manufacturing Company of Penn Yan,
NewYork, had for a long time purchased things used in the
manufacture of paper, of Buchanan & Co., merchants in the
city of New York, and had habitually given notes in pay,

BUCHANAN

V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

ment. Its dealings with them were considerable, and its
credit so good that it was not limited as to time; that when
extensions were asked they were given, and that up to March
3d, 1869, its notes had never lain over or been protested for
nonpayment. The notes of the company were indorsed by
its officers individually, except in one instance, when accident prevented. On the 3d of March, 1869, however, the
company were unable to meet a note to Buchanan & Co.,
which came due on that day, and telegraphed the fact to
these last, adding that they had sent that day a draft for half
the amount, and a new note at thirty days for the balance.
Buchanan & Co. replied (apparently by telegraph on the
same day), that they would protect the note; but in a letter
of March 4th, reciting these facts (apparently not having received the promised half remittance and new note), they say:
"We are much disappointed at not receiving anything from
you to-day. What does it mean? We had used the note, and
it was not at all convenient for us to take care of it at so short
notice. We shall certainly expect to hear from you by next
mail."
On the 21st of March, 1869, the company's mills were destroyed by lire. The loss was about $80,000; the insurance
$45,000 or $47,000. From that time the company did no
more business; and, as it afterwards appeared,it was from that
time insolvent. At the time of the fire Buchanan & Co. held
six notes of the company, to wit:
One for $1000, due March 25th, 1869.
One for $2501, due April 2d, 1869.
One for $1141, due April 6th, 1869.
One for $2293.19, due May 4th, 1869.
One for $2305.94, due June 4th, 1869.
One for $2318.69, due July 3d, 1869.
Two days after the fire the company wrote to Buchanan
& Co., informing them of the fact, and, apparently, of the
magnitude of their loss. These last replied March 23d, expressing sympathy, and "a trust that when you get things
more settled they may not turn out as bad as you now expect."

Dec. 1872.]

c

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.
Statement of the case.

They promised in the same letter to take care of the note
of the company du'e the 25th, and to advise in a few days
about the other coming due April 2d.
Just before this fire, Mr. Goodwin, one of the firm of Buchanan & Co., had set off on a tour of business, westwardHe reached Penn Yan immediately after the fire, and had
an interview with the officers of the company, who informed
him of the amount of their loss and insurance, and spoke of
the notes, and said, "On account'of our misfortune of burning, we shan't be able to meet those notes. Of course we
can't get the insurance-money in, and you will have to be
easy with us, and wait; but will get your pay in full."
They said that all they wanted was their insurance-money
to pay all they owed, and as soon as they got that they would
commence to pay. They asked to have the notes renewed,
which was afterwards done. They said the concern would
be solvent if they got their insurance-money, and expressed
their expectation of getting it. Io statement was made of
the company's debts, and Buchanan & Co., according to
their own positive testimony, had no knowledge of any particulars, or of the fact of their debts beyond supposition.
The following letters from Buchanan & Co. now were
written. What replies, if any came back, did not appear.
N:Ew YOK, March 29th, 1869.

THE CASCADE PAPER COMPANY.
GENTLEMEN: In relation to renewal of notes, we shall do
everything we reasonably can, though we cannot really afford
to renew a single one. You must take into consideration that
our Mr. Buchanan has recently met with a greater loss by fire,
with less than half the amount of insurance you have, and we
really need all the money we can command. We have taken
care of the $1000 note due 25th, and you will please send us
new note with your individual indorsements, and at as short
time as possible. Can't you possibly take care of the one due

April 2d and 6th? You see our position, and we trust yon will
meet the matter accordingly.
YoursBUCHANAN
truly,
& Co."

[Sup. Ct.

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.
Statement of the case.

NEW YORK, April 2d, 1869.
TEE CASCADE PAPER COMPANY.
GENTLEMEN : Your note for $2501 is payable to-day, and up to

this time (2 r.uN.) we hear nothing from you in regard to it. We
shall be obliged to have it protested if we do not hear from you
in time. You have not sent us new indorsed note for the 810"00
payable March 25th. We trust in these matters you will only
rely upon us, as a question of necessity, and not of convenience.
Money is very tight, and we need all that is due us.
Yours truly,
BUCHANAN & Co.
NEW YORK, April 30th, 1869.
THE CASCADE PAPER COMPANY.

GENTLEMEN: Yours of 29th instant, with inclosure, at hand.
We are surprised that you should request us to extend your
note due May 4th, for your superintendent, Mr. Joy, gave the
writer to understand most distinctly that should be paid when
due. This he said to him when at your place in March. Mr.
Joy then said if we would renew some notes due about that

time (which we did) everything 'Would be met promptly after
that. We have been obliged to use that note due the 4th proximo,
and we are not in a position to take it up. Our payments about
this time are exceedingly large, much greater than usual, and
we have need of every dollar we can raise to pay our own liabilities. We cannot, therefore, renew your note. You certainly
can in some way, with your connections, raise the money, and,
if necessary, you ought to be willing to make any sacrifice to
do it. If in no other way, we should suppose you could get an
advance for the amount you need on your insurance policies.
At any rate, gentlemen, you must in some way contrive to pay
the note, for we are not in a position to renew it for you.

Yours truly,
BUCHANAN & CO.
NEW YORK, June 5th, 1869.

MR. W. C. JoY,
Superintendent of the Cascade -Paper Company.
DEAR.

Sin: We were very much surprised and very greatly

incommoded by getting notice this morning of protest of your
note due yesterday, 4th instant, for $2305.94. H=ave telegraphed

you for explanation, aud up to this time, 2

o'clock, have re-

Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN

V. SMITH.

Statement of the case.

ceived no reply. This note had been discounted, and as we had
heard nothing from you to the contrary, we supposed, of course,
it would be paid. You promised us when we had to take up the
last one, that after that all your notes would be promptly met.
Please attend to it at once, and send funds. What are we to
expect in regard to your note due us next week, the 7th instant,
for $4701.42 ? We assure you we are not in a position to take
care of that. You must provide the funds to pay that. 'You
have no idea how short we are just at this time, and what a
disappointmept and trouble it has been for us to-day to take
care of your note due yesterday. Let us hear from you at once.
Yours truly,
BUCHANAN & Co.
NEw YoRE, June 9th, 1869.
MR. W. C. Joy,
Superintendent of the Cascade Paper Company.
DEAR Sin: Since writing you yesterday we learn the Man-

hattan Insurance Company paid you some time since about
$5000. Under the circumstances, think you should have paid
us something on account.
As we understand the matter, there is, beside the Buffalo company, unpaid as follows:
. $10,000
.....
..
Home, N. H.
Columbia, N. Y.,. .8,000
.8,000
Mfarket, N.Y., ........
.8,000
Atlantic ..........
On which there is due about $18,500.
We do nbt know how serious the difficulties in the way of
collecting from these companies may be, but from such information as we have been able to obtain, fear you may underrate
them. Under the circumstances we think you should assign
your claims against these companies to us, or at least enough
of them to cover our claim, which, in round figures, is about
$12,000.
The chances of collection in our hands will be quite as good
as in yours, and probably a good deal better. If you are correct in assuming that their refusal to pay is the result of WoodTuff's interference and management, the assignment to us would
be the very best means you can adopt to avoid litigation and
loss. We suppose you have a board of trustees, and that in case

BUCHANAN V.

[Sup. Ct.

SXITH.

Statement of the case.
you make the assignment it will be proper to have a meeting
and authorize some officers of the company to execute the assignment. Please let us hear from you by first mail.
Yours truly,
BUCHANAN & Co.
Nlw YoRK, June 12th, 1869.

G. R. YOUNG, EsQ.,
President of the Cascade Paper Company.
DEAR SIR: We hold the following notes of the Catscade Paper
Company, payable to the order of yourself and Mr. W. C. Joy,
and indorsed by you both, viz.:
One due May 4th, at Metropolitan Bank, N. Y., .
. $2,293 19
It
"
i

June 4th,
" 7th,
July 4th,

"

"
,

"

,.t
,

.

"

2,305 94
4,701 42
.,2,31.
69

$11,619 24
For the note due May 4th we hold as collateral another note
of the company for $2318.70, due July 1st, indorsed same as the
others. All the above notes, excepting the one due July 4th,
have been protested for non-payment. We have from time to
time renewed all these notes at the request of Mr. Joy, and Mr.
IRaplee, treasurer of your company, for reasons given by them
at the time. The last excuse given us was, that they were
waiting for their insurance-money. Now, as the company have,
to our knowledge, collected a large portion of their insurancemoney, some $20,000 or more, we think we are entitled to our
money, and that we are, under all the circumstances, very unfairly treated. We have this day written Mr. Joy, as superintendent of the company, requesting him to remit us by return
mail at least one-half of the amount of our account, and at the
same time informing him if it was not done we should at once
i.nstruct our lawyers to commence suits against yourself and Mr.
Joy as indorsers. We thought it best to inform you how this
matter stood, as you might not be fully informed in regard to it.
Yours truly,
BUCHANAN & CO.

"In the month of June or July," as was testified by the
superintendent of the company, "it became apparent to its
officers that the company could not meet its engagements."

Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN

V. SMITH.

Statement of the case.

On the 19th of the June thus spoken of by the superintendent, that is to say June, 1869, Buchanan & Co. brought
suit, in the Supreme Court of New York, against the company and the individual indorsers, Joy and Young, the
former superintendent and the latter president of the company, upon the two notes which had fallen due June 4th and
June 7th respectively; and immediately after the two notes
due July 1st and July 3d, fell due, a suit was brought upon
those notes also.
"At the time the suits were commenced," testified the
superintendent in lay, 1870, when he was examined, "I
should say, from my present standpoint, the company was
insolvent." There was no proof in the present proceeding
that, when these suits were brought, any debts of the company had matured, except those of Buchanan & Co., and
$229 due one Jones.
Each member of the firm of Buchanan & Co., which consisted of four persons, was examined as a witness, and they
all testified that their information and belief was, that the
company was perfectly solvent, and intended to pay everybody in full; that they commenced the suit because they
thought that the company's delay had been unreasonable
and unnecessary; that the officers of the company were
keeping the insurance-money, which ought to be paid to
them, and speculating with it; and because the company had
promised to pay as soon ds they got the insurance-money,
and had collected nearly $30,000 of it without paying anything; that the suits were not brought nor anything done
subsequently, under any understanding, request, or suggestion of the company; but, on the contrary, that the company requested them to wait longer, and begged them not
to think of bringing a suit; that they brought the suit for
the purpose of getting their pay by any legal means; that
they did not consider the question whether other parties
would get their pay or not, for that they did not know that
the company owed anybody else.
It appeared in the evidence that the company pleaded in
the suits on the notes a misnomer in abatement; and that

BUCHANAN

V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Buchanan & Co. made a motion to correct the misnomer,
and to strike out the answer as "sham," and for judgment
on it as "frivolous."
The motion to amend was granted.
The company's counsel then insisted that the plaintiffs must
re-serve their complaint as amended, and the company have
the usual time to answer. In a discussion before the court
upon this point the plaintiff's counsel (according to his statement as given in the present suit) insisted, as a matter of
argument, that where delay was the only object sought by a
defendant which did not deny its obligation, delay might
work injury to the plaintifs by enabling other parties to
gain a priority in case of insolvency. And he suggested insolvency as a possible inference, from the application for
delay, for the court to consider upon such a motion. He
did not assert it as a fact, and as he testified he had no
knowledge or information on the subject and no decided
belief on the subject of their solvency or insolvency. The
company's counsel emphatically denied the suggestion of
insolvency, and objected to any such inference being drawn.
The judge said there was no proof on the subject, and gave
the "company ten days to answer. The company's counsel
testified that the statement of insolvency was positively made
by the counsel of Buchanan & Co., but admitted that there
was nothing in the papers, one way or the other, upon the
subject; that it became a matter of argument upon the
assertions of counsel made in court, the plaintiff's counsel
saying that the company was insolvent and the company's
counsel saying that he did not believe it was insolvent, and
he admitted that he did, in fact, believe they were solvent,
and did say that he so believed in the argument. This argument was made on the 19th or 20th of July.
On the 19th of July a judgment against the company for
$229 was recovered by one Jones, which was subsequently
satisfied on execution. But Buchanan & Co. testified that
they had no knowledge or information of these facts.
On the 21st of July, 1869, the company made a general
assignment of all their property and effects to one Benjamin
Hoyt in trust to pay their creditors. This assignment was

Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN V.

SMITH.

Statement of the case.

made under advice of reputable counsel, who advised the
company that they might lawfully make it, and that it would
be valid. "The company supposed," according to the testimony of their superintendent, "that the title to all their
property would pass to Hoyt, and they intended to have it
so pass by the assignment. They intended it should so pass
before Buchanan & Co. could get their judgments and issue
executions. They knew when the assignment was executed
that this firm would shortly be entitled to enter judgments,
and it was the intention on the part of the company in
making the assignment to Hoyt to prevent them from gaining a preference by means of their judgments. They expected and intended that no property would be left on
which they could get any lien. They did not expect or
intend that Buchanan & Co. should get a preference over
their other creditors; but intended by the assignment to
secure an equal distribution of their property to their creditors, and to prevent any creditor from getting a preference.
The officers of the company consulted together in reference
to the assignment. There was not any difference of view."
The members of the firm of Buchanan & Co. testified that
no information of this assignment was given to them, and
that they had no knowledge of it until after their liens had
attached as hereinafter mentioned.
On the 3d of August, no defences having been entered in
any of the suits, Buchanan & Co. recovered judgments against
the company in them by default, and against Joy & Young,
indorsers on the notes. On the same day their attorneys
sent transcripts of the judgments to the clerk of Yates
County, in which the company's real estate was situated, to
be docketed by him, and the same were docketed by him
on the 4th day of August.
On the same 3d day of August the attorneys of Buchanan
& Co. also issued executions on the two judgments to the.
s4eriff of Yates County, wherein personal property of the
company was situated, which executions were received by
the sheriff on the 4th of August, and were sufficient in form
to become liens on that day under the statutes of the State

BUOHANAN

V. SMITH.

[Sup. Gt.

Statement of the case.

of New York, upon all the persona! property of the defendants within that county. On the 4th of August Buchanan
& Co. commenced, under the said judgments, certain proceedings supplementary to execution (which are the substitute under the INew York code for a creditor's bill), and
thereby obtained an equitable lien upon all the choses in
action of the company, which proceedings subsequently resulted in the appointment of B. Buchanan (a member of the
firm) as receiver.
The different members of the firm testified that at the
time of commencing the suits, and at the time of recovering
and docketing the judgments, issuing the executions and
commencing the supplementary proceedings, they did not
actually believe that the company was insolvent, or in contemplation of insolvency, and so far as they were aware,
neither of them had any reasonable cause so to believe; but,
on the contrary, their belief in fact was, and as they supposed their information warranted the belief, that the company was perfectly solvent. They each further testified that
so far as they were aware, they had no cause to believe that
the company had any intention, view, or desire of giving a
preference to their firm, or making any disposition of property in its favor or in fraud of the Bankruptcy Act; but, on
the contrary, they in fact believed that the company was resisting their proceedings with the purpose of delaying, and
so far as possible preventing their obtaining payment of their
claims; that their information and belief was that the company did all it could to prevent the judgments, executions,
and receiverships; that they thought it a part of the company's plan not to give them a preference or allow them to
get any if it could help it; that it was doing all it could to
prevent their getting any preference; and that they had no
facts nor any cause to believe that it was showing or permitting them any favor.
The sheriff of Yates County, on receiving the executions,
August 4th, called upon the officers of the company, and
they all said that an execution could not touch the property;
that they had made an assignment, and that it was in Hoyt's

Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN

V. SMIT.H.

Statement of the ease.

hands; and they supposed that that would exempt the property-from levy. They objected to the levy. The sheriff also
called on Hoyt, who said there was a general assignment of
the company made to him; that he had possession of all the
property, and that he thought the sheriff had no right to
make a levy. So the sheriff did not levy at that time.
When the attorneys of Buchanan & Co. sent the transcripts
of judgments to the clerk of Yates County, on the 3d of August, they wrote him a letter, in which they requested him
to docket the judgments, and also to inform them whether
there were any other judgments against any of the defendants, or any assignment or transfer of property by any of
them, and if so, for a memorandum thereof. The clerk sent
back the letter with a memorandum of a judgment recovered
by Jones against the company for $229, July 19th; and also
of "general assignment, dated July 21st, 1869, B. L. Hoyt,
assignee." This letter was received by Buchanan & Co.'s attorneys August 5th. This was the first information, as they
testified, which they or their attorneys, so far as they knew,
had ever received of the existence of the assignment, or of
any judgment against the company other than their own.
The attorneys sent for a copy of the assignment and received
it on the 7th of August. Mr. Goodwin, one of the firm, went
at once to Penn Yan to investigate the circumstances. He
arrived there on the 9th, and remained there till the 13th.
On arriving at Penn Yan he saw the sheriff, who informed
him that the company had made an assignment, and there
was not anything to-levy on. He also' saw Mr. Hoyt, who
asserted that the property had vested in him as assignee.
He also saw the officers of the company, who said that they
had made an assignment of the property which the company
formerly owned, and that the assignment was good and
valid. Under advice of counsel, Goodwin directed the sheriff
to levy, and gave him the bond of indemnity required by
him. The sheriff levied on the personal property of the
6ompany August 13th.
By orders of the Supreme Court, made in the supplementary proceedings August 18th and I6th, Buchanan was ap.

BUCHANAN

V.

[Sup. Ct.

SMITH.

Statement of the case.

pointed receiver of the unpaid policies of insurance held by
said company, and on the 20th, 21st, and 23d of August
commenced suits on them against the insurers, to recover
the losses due the company, which suits were still pending.
On the 9th of September a petition in bankruptcy was
filed against the company, on which, September 24th, it
was adjudicated bankrupt, and one Smith appointed its
assignee.
The inventory of the assets and liabilities of the firm filed
July 21st, 1869, showed:
Liabilities,
Assets, ..

.

Deficit, ...

$74,775 0
41,435 00
$83,340 00

Among the assets wereCash in hands of Treasurer, .$6,554
Claims against insurance companies for loss by fire,

70
14,545 30

Hereupon Smith filed a bill in the court below against
Buchanan & Co., which, after setting forth the appointment
of the complainant as assignee, alleged that the judgments
in favor of Buchanan & Co. against the company were suffered and procured by the company with intent to give that
firm a preference over the other creditors of the company,
and with intent to hinder, delay, and impair the operation
of the Bankrupt Act; and that that firm, when they entered
their judgments and issued their executions, had reasonable
cause to believe that the company was insolvent, and that a
fraud on the act was intended.
The bill also alleged the illegality of the appointment of
the defendant, Buchanan, as receiver of the insurance claims.
The answer set forth the recovery of the judgments, the
issuing of the executions, the levies thereunder, and the appointment of the receiver; and put in issue all the allegations of fraud in the recovery of the judgment, and any
knowledge on the defendants' part of the insolvency of the
'company.
The court below gave judgment for the complainant,

Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.
Argument for the judgment creditor.

granting the relief asked in the bill, and setting aside the
judgments under which the defendants claimed their lien.
From that decree this appeal was taken.
It was admitted on both sides in the argument that by
the terms of the Bankrupt Act it was necessary that three
things should concur to entitle the complainant, as assignee,
to the decree prayed in the bill:
1st. That the company, within four months before the

filing of the petition against them in bankruptcy, did "procure or suffer" their property, or some part thereof, to M,
attached, sequestered, or seized on execution by Buchanan
& Co., with a view to give them a preference.
2d. That the company was insolvent at that time, or iii.
contemplated insolvency.
3d. That Buchanan & Co., at the time the company "procured or suffered" such attachment, sequestration, or seizure
of their property (if they did so "procure or suffer" it) had
reasonable cause to believe that the company was insolvent,
and that they procured or suffered such attachment, sequestration, or seizure of their property to be made to secure
such preference and in fraud of the provisions of the act.
Mr.T. ff. North, for the plaintiff in error:
This case presents.a question of great importance. It is,
how far a creditor may lawfully use the process of the State
courts to collect his debts, and how far the Bankruptcy Act
restricts him in that use.
I. We maintain that a creditor may lawfully do all that
he might have done before the Bankrupt Act to collect his
debts, provided he has no active or passive assistance fron
a debtor whom he has reasonable cause to believe insolvent
and intending to help him to a preference. "The preference which the law condemns," said Chase, C. J., on the
circuit, "is a preference made within the limited time by the,
bankrupt, not a priority lawfully gained by creditors. It iv
as much the policy of the Bankrupt Act to uphold liens and
trusts when valid as it is to set them aside when invalid."
Of course Buchanan & Co. intended to collect the bill by
VOL. XV1.

19

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the judgment creditor.

ordinary process in State courts. That is not per se unlawful. No statute has forbidden it; no decisions hold it wrong
per se. The machinery of the State courts has not been
abolished by the Bankrupt Act, nor the whole burden of collecting debts thrown on the Federal courts. They did not
intend to violate the letter or spirit of the Bankrupt Act by
any collusion with their debtor. They expected to succeed,
as they did succeed, not only without help from their debtor,
but in spite of its utmost resistance. They believed their
debtor good but slow pay, and meant to enforce the payment
unreasonably delayed. If there were other creditors (as to
which they knew nothing), and if there would not ultimately
be enough for all (which when they perfected their liens,
they had no reason to believe and did not believe) they had
no intention of taking unlawful advantage of them, and
took none. They sought no aid from their debtor and re•ceived none.
They sought, and they obtained, simply the reward which
the law has for ages given to the energetic and prompt creditor. The maxims " Viqilantibus non dormientibus," and "Prior
tempore potior est jure," have been so far modified by the
Bankrupt Act as that no creditor is allowed to gain any
advantage by his activity if any act, procurement, or even
passive co-operation of the debtor has aided him. But
neither the terms nor policy of the act forbid an honest creditor from keeping the advantage which he has gained by energetic fighting, in spite of resolute and sincere resistance
of the debtor, even though in failing circumstances, or actually insolvent. It is only the further prosecution of a suit
which has not yet reached final judgment that is stayed by
bankruptcy. A judgment already obtained is not discharged
unless surrendered by voluntary act of the creditor in proving his debt. If he chooses not to surrender it, but to stand
on it, the law recognizes his right. In the practical administration thus far of this law, the lien of a creditor, obtained
without the forbidden co-operation of the debtor by judgment, by execution, or by the appointment of a receiver, beib,'t the filing of a petition in bankruptcy, has been upheld

Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.
Argument for the judgment creditor.

by repeated adjudications, and the title of the assignee in
bankruptcy has been held subordinate to the lien.*
1. It is quite clear that the bankrupts did not in fact intend to give the firm a preference. As less than $15,000 of
their insurance-money is inventoried as unpaid July 21st, it
is plain that $30,000 or $32,000 of it must have been colected after the fire. But the firm got none of it. Indeed
the company had on band on that day $6554.70 cash in their
treasurer's hands; which if the company had meant to prefer the firm would have been paid to it. So far from meaning to prefer this firm, the contrary was the fact. The company intended to prevent their getting a preference, and in
fact supposed that they had effectually prevented any such
preference. They acted under the advice of eminent counsel, who advised them, and they believed it to be true, that
the assignment which they made was legal, valid, and sufficient to prevent the firm from gaining a preference. That
advicp was justified by all the existing decisions authoritative in that circuit and district. Such an assignment had
been held not to conflict with any provision of the Bankruptcy Act, by Nelson, J.j in Sedgwick v. Place,t as well as by
Swayne, J., in Langley v. PerryJ and Farrinv. Crawford.§
And there had been at that time no decisions to the contrary. It had also been held valid under the State laws by
the courts of the State.]]
2. It is equally clear that the firm did not in fact believe the company intended to give them a preference, but
actually believed the intention to be precisely the reverse.
How could they have had "reasonable cause to believe"
what did not in fact exist, and what every fact and circum* In re Campbell,.1 Abbott's United States Reports, 185; Sampson v. Burton, 4 Bankrupt Register, 3; Sedgwick v. Minck, by Nelson, J., 1 Id. 204;
Wright v. Filley, Miller, J1., 4 Id. 197; Armstrong v. Rickey, Sherman, J.,
2 Id. 150; Re Campbell, McCandless, J., 6 Internal Revenue Record, 174;
Re Wright, Field, J., 2 Id. 155; Re Schnepf, Benedict, Jt., 2 Benedict's District Court, 72; and numerous other cases.
f 1 Bankrupt Register, 204.
$ 2 Id. 180.
Ilb. 181.
11De Ruyter v. St. Peter's Church, 3 New York, 238; Hurlburt v. Carter,
21 Barbour, 221; Bowery Bank Case, 5 Abbott's Practice, 415.

BUCHANAN

V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the judgment creditor.

stance operating upon their minds tended to make them
disbelieve?
3. The firm had no reasonable cause to believe the company insolvent at the time the suits were commenced, or at
the time their liens were perfected on the 4th of August.
In the case of a merchant, insolvency might be suspected,
from his allowing judgmen-t to be recovered on a just debt,
without defence, but in many instances men'not engaged in
business habitually avoid paying just debts till forced by
legal process, and no cause to believe insolvency could be
charged on their creditors. Otherwise, as the Supreme
Court of New York say in Hoover v. Greenbaum:*
,If such facts are held to be sufficient to charge a creditor
with the knowledge required by the Bankrupt Act, it would be
dangerous for any creditor to collect from his debtors the claims
he has against them, by legal proceedings."
In an agricultural community the non-payment of notes at
maturity does not afford reasonable ground to believe insolvency. The company were not traders at the time that these
judgments were recorded, but were in very peculiar circumstances. A presumption reasonable as to merchants in the
ordinary course of their business, would be wholly inapplicable to this case.
4. If at the time these liens were obtained, August 4th,
the firm had no reasonable cause to believe that their debtors were insolvent, and intended to give them a preference,
nothing which occurred afterwards could possibly make that
invalid which was valid on the 4th of August.
iNeither the information received August 5th, of the assignment and the Jones judgment, nor the knowledge
acquired by Mr. Goodwin, August 10th and l1th, nor his
directing a levy and indemnifying the sheriff on the 13th,
could prejudice the liens acquired on the 4th. We may,
therefore, lay out of consideration all that occurred after
that date.
5. The burden of proof rests on the assignee. It must
* 62 Barbour, 193.

Dec. 1872-.]

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.
Argument for the general creditors.

be admitted that, irrespective of the Bankrupt Act, his title
is subject to liens of Buchanan & Co. If there is any provision in the act making his title superior to theirs, it is for
him to show it, and to prove the facts that make it applicable.
The adjudication of bankruptcy is not even primd facie
evidence as against Buchanan & Co., who were not parties
to it.*
I. The liens of Buchanan & Co., if not void under the
Bankrupt Act, were valid under the laws of the State of New
York. Even if not so, this court would not examine into
the regularity of the proceedings. It will take notice of the
existence and jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of New
York, and that it is a court of general jurisdiction; and
whether its decision be correct or otherwise, its action, until
set aside by some direct proceeding, is regarded as binding
in every other court. It cannot be questioned when introduced collaterally, unless it be shown that the court had no
jurisdiction.
Mr. G. Gorham, contra:
1. 1. On the 3d of August, 1869, when these judgments
wtere recovered, and for a long time prior thereto, indeed
immediately after the fire in March, the company was insolvent. As a fact this will not be denied.
2. The company suffered and procured the judgments to
be entered, the executions to be issued, and the levy to be
made, and thus transferred its property to Buchanan & Co.,
with a view to give them a preference over its other creditors, and with a view to prevent its property from coming
to the assignee in bankruptcy, and from being distributed
under the Bankrupt Act, and to impede, and delay, and impair the effect and operation of the act.
(a.) The company permitted the judgments to be entered,
when by filing its petition in bankruptcy it could have prevented the entry of the judgments.
"ReSchick, 2 Benedict, 5; Re Dibblee, 2 Bankruptcy Register, p. 186.

BUCHANAN V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the general creditors.

A debtor who is threatened or pressed can prevent the
taking of his property on legal process by going into voluntary bankruptcy, and if he does not he clearly allows or
suffers the taking.*
(b.) The insolvency of the company being established, and
the fact being proven that it permitted judgments to be entered and its property to be taken on execution, the intent
follows.
The natural consequence of the defendants obtaining judgment and levy was to give them a preference over other
creditors, there not being sufficient assets to pay all the
creditors in full; and it was also a necessary consequence
that so much of the property as was covered by the lien of
the judgments and executions would thereby be prevented
from reaching the hands of an assignee in bankruptcy; and
the intention, aim, and object of bankrupt laws being the
equal distribution of the insolvent's estate among all creditors, the judgments and levy necessarily impeded, delayed,
and impaired the effect and operation of the Bankrupt Act.t
It is a necessary legal presumption, which ordinarily cannot be rebutted by any evidence of a want of such intention.1
The fact that the superintendent Joy denies any such intention, cannot do away with this presumption.
(c.) The act of suffering the defendants to take the property of the company on legal process, the company being
insolvent, was a transfer of the property to the defendants.§
The fact that these judgments were obtained in direct
hostility to the bankrupt, does not alter the case.
* In re Black & Secor, 1 Bankruptcy Register, 81 ; In re Craft, Ib. 89; In
re Dibblee, lb. 185; fHaskell v. Ingalls, 5 Id. 205; In re Forsyth & Murtha,
7 Id. 174.
t Denny v. Dana, 2 Cushing, 160; Beals v. Clark, 13 Gray, 18; Black &
Secor, supra; Foster v. Hackley, 2 Bankruptcy Register, 131.
$ In re Smith, 3 Id. 98, and cases cited; Driggs v. Moore, lb. 149; Campbell v. Traders' Bank, lb. 124; In re Dibblee, 2 Id. 185; Morgan v. Mastick,
lb. 163; Clark v. Binninger, 3 Id. 99.
Black & Secor, 1 Id. 82; Same case, 2 Id. 65; Wilson v. Brinkman,
lb. 149.
0 Wilson v. Brinkman, lb. 149; Giddings v. Dodd, 1 Dillon, 115.

Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN

V. SMITH.

Argument for the general creditors.

3. Buchanan & Co. when they entered their judgments,

and when they caused levies to be made, had reasonable
cause to believe the company to be insolvent.
(a.) They held the commercial paper of the company, past
due, unpaid, and protested.
(b.) They brought suits upon this paper, and knew it was
not paid before judgment.*
(c.) They knew, by evidence in their own hands, that the
company had committed an act of bankruptcy before they
commenced their second action, and before the time to answer expired they knew that two acts of bankruptcy had
been committed, in that the company had suspended payment of its commercial paper for fourteen days without resuming. These were acts of bankruptcy.
(d.) The company had caused to be recorded in Yates
County clerk's office, on July 21st, a general assignment reciting its insolvency, and this was notice to the defendants.
(e.) Before the levy was made, Goodwin, one of the firm
of Buchanan & Co., had seen this record of assignment,
had attended the sheriff sale on a prior execution, and had
talked with the officers of the company with reference to its
affairs.
(f.) The transfer of the company's property to these defendants by execution and levy was so extraordinary a transaction, and entirely out of a regular business course, that
the defendants were not only put upon inquiry but thereby
were fully advised of the company's insolvency.t
(g.) The fact that each of the judgment creditors denies
any reasonable cause to believe in the insolvency of the company, and denies any intent to do anything in contravention
of the Bankrupt Act, is of no consequence, because confessedly they had knowledge of facts whzch constitute insolven-'y,
and their denial is rather one of law than fact.t
4. It follows as a necessary consequence that if Buchanan
& Co. had reasonable cause to believe the company insolvent,
* Haske I v. Ingalls, 5 Bankruptcy Register, 205.
t Wilsoi v. City Bank, 5 Bankruptcy Register, 270.
t Rison ;. Knapp, 1 Dillon, 186.

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the general creditors.

they had like cause to believe a fraud upon the act was
being committed. By their proceedings they were seeking
to get a preference over the other creditors of the company,
while the Bankrupt Act requires that all creditors shall
share alike. The object of Buchanan & Co. in suing the
notes held by them, was to get their money whether other
creditors got theirs or not. They were not satisfied with
the general assignment without preferences which the company had executed, and by which they would have been
placed on a footing with all the other creditors; but avoided
that by compelling the sheriff to levy under a bond of indemnity, and by obtaining a judgment setting aside the
assignment.
They must be presumed to know that the natural, the
necessary, consequences of their acts was to obtain that
which was a fraud upon the Bankrupt Act.
This court has met this question, and held that when the
bankrupt has shown by acts of bankruptcy, which are pertain tests of insolvency, that he is unable to meet his engagements, one creditor cannot, by a race of diligence, obtain
a preference to the injury of others.* Such conduct is considered a fraud on the act, whose aim is to divide the assets
equally, and therefore equitably. This ruling has been followed by the courts under the present act.
II. The appointment of Buchanan as receiver of the
claims against the insurance companies, was a nullity. Sedtions 292 and 294 of the New York Code of Procedure, in
reference to proceedings supplementary to execution, have
no applicability to incorporations.t
Reply: A debtor does not, in the sense of the Bankrupt Act, "suffer" his property to be taken, if he in good
faith uses, as he is advised and believes, effectual means to
prevent it, and fails only by mistake, misfortune, lack of
* Shawhan v. Wherritt, 7 Howard, 644.

t Hinds v. Canandaigua and Niagara Falls Railroad Co., 10 Howard's
Practice, 48' - Sherwood v. Buffalo and New York City Railroad Co., 12
Id. 136.

Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.
Opinion of the court.

time, or accident.*

The word "suffer,"

in this connec-

tion implies volition, something voluntarily and knowingly
omitted. It was added to cover acts of wilful omission, not
,embraced in the word "procure."
It is to be used in the
sense of "allow," or "permit," not of "endure."
A man
suffers, permits, or allows that which he could, but does not
desire to, prevent. He simply endures that which he has done
the best he knew how to avoid.t It must be an act of volition on his part; it must be, in other words, something that
is done voluntarily.
The context of the statute shows that it must be a suffering "with intent to give a preference," which is inconsistent
with the sense of involuntary endurance.
Is every debtor bound to run a race of diligence with his
creditor? Is every creditor bound to see that his debtor
does run such a race, and, at his peril, to see to it that the
debtor wins the race? Are the proceedings in State courts
to be used merely as a spur to the debtor to make him run?
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Preferences, as well as fraudulent conveyances, are, under
certain circumstances, declared to be void if made by a
debtor actually insolvent, or in contemplation of insolvency,
within four months before the filing of the petition by or
against him as a bankrupt.1
Those circumstances, so far as that rule of decision is applicable to this case, are, if the debtor procures any part of
his property within that period to be attached, sequestered,
or seized on execution with a view to give a preference to

any creditor or person having a claim against him, or who
is under any liability for him, that such attachment, sequestration, or seizure is void, provided it also appears that the
creditor making the attachment, sequestration, or seizure,
or the person to be benefited thereby, had reasonable cause
* Armstrong v. Rickey, 2 Bankruptcy Register, 150; Re Schnepf, 2 Bene.
dict's District Court, 72.
t Campbell v. Traders' Bank, 3 Bankruptcy Register, 124.
t 14 Stat. at Large, 534.

298

BUCHANAN V. SMITM.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

to believe that the debtor was insolvent, and that the attachment, sequestration, or seizure was procured in fraud of the
provisions of the Bankrupt Act.
On the 9th of September, 1869, a creditor of the corporation respondents filed a petition in bankruptcy against the
company, in the office of the clerk of the District Court, ana
on the twenty-fourth of the same month the District Court
adjudged the said paper manufacturing company to be bankrupts within the true intent and meaning of the Bankrupt
Act.
Pursuant to that decree the appellee, on the 10th of November following, was duly appointed assignee of the estate
of the bankrupts, and the register having charge of the case,
there being no opposing interest, by an instrument in writing under his hand assigned and conveyed to the said assignee
all the property and estate, real aud personal, of the bankrupts.
By virtue of that instrument of assignment and conveyance all the real and personal estate of the bankrupts, with
all their deeds, books, and papers relating thereto, became
vested in the appellee as such assignee. Such instrument
of assignment and conveyance embraced the several parcels
of real estate described in the bill of complaint and certain
personal property at that time in the hands of an assignee
appointed by the State court, or in the custody of the sheriff
of the county, but which has since been in part sold by the
sheriff and the proceeds have been paid into the registry oif
the District Court. Five policies of insurance upon the
property of the bankrupts, which had been destroyed by fire
and for which losses the insurance companies were liable,
were also included in the said instrument of assignment and
conveyance.
Complaint is made by the appellee in the bill that the respondents, or the three first named, on the 3d of August,
prior to the decree adjudging the corporation respondents
bankrupts, recovered two several judgments against the
bankrupt company, in the Supreme Court of the State,

Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN

V. SMITH.

Restatement of the case in the opiniln.

amounting in the aggregate to the sum of $11,815.65; that
the said judgments, on the day following, were docketed in
the office of the clerk of the county, where the judgments
still remain of record, and constitute an apparent lien upon
the property and estate so assigned and conveyed to the appellee as such assignee, and are a cloud upon his title.
Apart from that he also claims that the same parties took
out executions upon the said judgments and delivered the
same to the sheriff of the county, and that the sheriff, on
the 11th of the same month, levied the executions upon certain personal property of the bankrupt company which he
held in possession when the petition in bankruptcy was filed,
and he alleges that the sherif, by order of the District Court
duly entered, has since sold the said fersonal property and
paid the proceeds into the registry of the bankrupt court;
that the other respondent claims that he has been appointed
receiver of the several policies of insurance, and that he has
commenced actions against the insurance companies to recover the losses suffered by the burning of the property
covered by the said policies, in consequence of which the
insurance companies refuse to pay said losses to the complainant.
Both the allegations of the bill and the proofs show that
the corporation respondents, on the said 3d of August and
long prior thereto, were utterly insolvent and bankrupts,
and the complainant charges that they procured and suffered
the said judgments in favor of the parties named to be entered and their own property to be attached, sequestered,
and seized, as alleged, with intent to give to those creditors
a preference over their other creditors, and that they intended by such disposition of their property to defeat and
delay the operation of the Bankrupt Act; that the said
judgment creditors, throughout those proceedings, had reasonable cause to believe that the debtor company was insolvent, and that the judgments were entered, the executions
issued, and the levies made in fraud of the provisions of the
Bankrupt Act, and that the proceedings were commenced
and prosecuted with a view to prevent the property from

BUCHANAN

V. SMITH.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

to the assignee in bankruptcy and from being distributed under said act.
Service was made and the said judgment creditors appeared and filed an answer, and a separate answer was filed
by the respondent claiming to be the receiver of the policies
of insurance. Proofs were taken and the parties were heard
and the court entered a decree for the complainant, and
from that decree the respondents appealed to this court.
coming

Most or all of the defences which it becomes material to
consider consist of denials that the charges contained in the
bill of complaint are true, and in that respect the two answers are substantially alike. Briefly described the answers
deny that the corporation respondents did procure or suffer
the said judgments to be entered, or their property to be
taken upon legal process issued upon said judgments, with
intent thereby to give to those judgment creditors a preference over their other creditors, or with intent to defeat or
delay, by such disposition of their property, the operation of
the Bankrupt Act; or that they had reasonable cause to believe that the respondent company was insolvent, or that the
judgments were entered or the executions issued or the
levies made in fraud of the provisions of the Bankrupt Act;
or that such proceedings were instituted with a view to
prevent the property of the bankrupts from coming to the
assignee in bankruptcy, or to prevent the same from being
distributed under the said act, as charged in the bill of complaint.
Fraudulent preference is the gravamen of the charge, and
the complainant, as the assignee of the estate of the bankrupts, prays that the said judgments and all the proceedings
in the suits may l)e decreed to be void and of no effect, and
that the judgments, executions, and levies may be vacated
and set aside, and that it may be decreed that he, as such
assignee, is entitled to have and receive all the real and personal estate of the bankrupts free and clear of any lien by
virtue of the said judgments, or of any of the aforesaid pro
ceedings, and for an injunction.

Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN

V. SMITH.

Opinion of the court.

Three things must concur to entitle the complainant, as
such assignee, to the decree as prayed in the bill of conplaint: (1.) That the corporation respondents, within four
months before the filing of the petition against them in
bankruptcy, did procure or suffer their property, or some
part thereof, to be attached, sequestered, or seized on execution by the said judgment creditors, with a view to give a
preference to such creditors by such attachment, sequestration or seizure, over their other creditors. (2.) That the
corporation respondents were insolvent at that time, or in
contemplation of insolvency. (3.) That the judgment creditors, at the time their debtors, the corporation respondents,
procured or suffered such attachment, sequestration, or seizure of the aforesaid property belonging to the said debtors,
had reasonable cause to believe that the debtors whose property was so attached, sequestered, or seized, were insolvent,
and that they procured or suffered such attachment, sequestration, or seizure of such property to be made to secure
such preference and in fraud of the provisions of the Bankrupt Act.
Equal distribution of the property of the bankrupt, pro
rata, is the main purpose which the Bankrupt Act seeks to
accomplish, and it is clear to a demonstration that the end
and aim of those who framed the act must be defeated in
this case if the proceedings of the judgment creditors are
sustained, as they have perfected liens, by those proceedings,
upon all or nearly all of the visible property of the bankrupts.
Until the debtor commits an act of bankruptcy it is doubtless true that any creditor may lawfully sue out any proper
process to enforce the payment of debts overdue, and may
proceed to judgment, execution, seizure, and sale of his
property; but it is equally true that the appointment of an
assignee under a decree in bankruptcy relates back to the
commencement of the bankrupt proceedings, and that the
instrument required to be executed, under the hand of the
judge or register, assigns and conveys to the assignee all
the estate, real and personal, of the bankrupt, including

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.

[Sup. 014

Opinion of the court.

equitable as well as legal rights, and interests and things in
action as well as those in possession, which belonged to the
debtor at the time the petition in bankruptcy was filed in
the District Court.*
Conceded, as that proposition must be, it is obvious that
the judgment creditors could not acquire any interest in the
property of the debtor by virtue of the order of the State
court extending the powers of the receiver, previously appointed to collect the several amounts due from the insurance companies, to all the other estate, real, personal, and
mixed, of the bankrupts, as it is admitted in the answer that
the order in question was passed subsequent to the filing of
the petition in bankruptcy, which is the foundation of the
decree adjudrging the corporation respondents to be bankrupts. Suppose it were otherwise, still the same conclusion
must follow, as the court is of the opinion that all the essential allegations of the bill of complaint are established.
Much discussion to show that the paper company was insolvent is certainly unnecessary, as the answer admits the
fact to be as alleged in the bill of complaint. They failed to
meet their paper at maturity as early as the 4th of March,
1869, as conclusively appears from the letter of the principal
appellants to the treasurer of the company, acknowledging
the receipt of a telegram from him to the effect that the
company could not pay their note falling due on that day.
It appears by the record that the bankrupt company was
engaged in the manufacture of paper; that they had for a
long time purchased goods for the purpose of the principal
appellants on credit; that the appellants at that time held
six notes against them, some of which were overdue; that
the mills of the company, on the 20th of the same month,
were destroyed by fire, which prevented the company from
transacting any further business.
Correspondence immediately ensued between the appellants and the bankrupt company or their superintendent.
Two days after the fire the company informed the appellants
* 14 Stat. at Large, 622.

Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.
Opinion of the court.

of their misfortune, and the appellants replied on the following day, promising to take care of one of their notes and to
advise them, in a few days, as to another which would fall
due in a short time. Immediately one of the appellants
visited the superintendent of the bankrupt company for the
purpose of ascertaining the extent of their loss and whether
they would be able to take care of their unpaid notes.
Application was soon after made to the appellants by the
company that they should consent to renew the notes, and
for an extension of the time of payment, which led to further correspondence and to some crimination, the appellants
charging that the officers of the company had promised that
all the notes should be promptly met, and that they had
failed to make good their promise, and insisting that they
must provide funds for that purpose. Urgent demands to
that effect were made by the appellants, as appears by the
letters given in evidence, but the bankrupts failed to supply
the necessary funds, and the appellants, though they at first
refused so to do, finally consented to renew all of the notes
except two, reducing the number from six to four, as appears by their own testimony.
Those four notes were as follows: (1.) Note dated April
2d, 1869, for $4701.42, payable in sixty-three days from date.
(2.) Note dated May 4th, 1869, for $2818.70, payable in fiftyfive days from date. (3.) Note dated November 6th, 1868,
for $2305.94, payable June 4th next after its date. (4.) Note
dated November 16th, 1868, for $2318.69, payable the 3d of
July next after its date.
Repeated demands for payment having been ineffectual,
the appellants, on the 9th of June subsequent to the fire,
suggested to the superintendent of the company that the
.hances of collecting the insurance-money would be better
if the policies were placed in their hands, and urged that
the company should assign their claims under the policies
of insurance to them, "or at least enough of them to cover
our claim, which in round numbers is about $12,000." Such
a course, it was suggested in the same letter, would be the
very best means they (the company) could adopt to avoid li-

BUCHANAN V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

gation and loss, which affords convincing evidence that it was
the purpose and intention of the appellants to secure a preference over the other creditors of the company.
Persuasion having failed to accomplish the purpose, the
appellants, in a letter dated three days later and addressed
to the president of the company, presented a schedule of the
notes renewed and unpaid, complaining that they had been
very unfairly treated, and informed him that unless one-half
of the amount due to them was remitted by return mail, they
should instruct their attorneys to commence suits against
him and the superintendent of the company as indorsers of
the notes. Instead of yielding at that time to the threat of
the appellants, the corporation bankrupts, on the 21st of
July following, made, executed, and delivered to one Benjamin Hoyt an indenture of assignment, wherein they pretended to convey to the said assignee all their real and personal property in trust, to convert the same into money, and
with the proceeds to pay the debts of the company.
Extended discussion of that transaction, however, is quite
unnecessary, as both parties agree that the said assignment
was made in contemplation of insolvency, contrary to the
provisions of the revised statutes of the State, and to hinder,
delay, and defraud creditors. Whether the instructions were
given to the attorneys, as threatened, does not appear, but
it does appear that the notes overdue were protested and
that those notes, on the 19th of the same month, were put
in suit against the bankrupt company, and that a second
suit was commenced against the company upon the other
two notes immediately after they fell due.
Enough appears both in the pleadings and proofs to show
that those suits, on the 3d of August following, were pending in the State court, and that the principal appellants on
that day recovered judgment in both suits against the corporation defendants. Judgment in one of the suits was rendered for the sum of $7118.14, and in the other for the sum
of $4197.51, as appears by the record. Both judgments
were entered and perfected on the same day, and on the
following day transcripts thereof were duly filed and the re-

Dec. 1872.]

BuCHANAN V. SMITH.

Opinion of the court.

spective judgments were duly docketed in the office of the
clerk of the county, so as to become, at least in form, a lien
on all the estate, real and personal, belonging to the bankrupt corporation.
Argument to show that the purpose of the principal appellants in attaching, sequestering, and seizing the property
of the bankrupt company, as charged in the bill of complaint, was to obtain a preference over the other creditors
of the company, is hardly necessary, as the charge is fully
proved, and it is equally certain that the debtors throughou'
the entire period from the commencement to the close of
those proceedings were hopelessly insolvent, and the acts,
conduct, and declarations of the appellants, in the judgmert
of this court, afford the most convincing proof that they had
reasonable cause to believe, even if they did not positively
know, that such was the actual pecuniary condition of their
debtors.
Attempt is made to satisfy the court that the debtors
themselves did not know that they were insolvent, but the
theory, in view of the evidence, is not supported, and must
be rejected as improbable and as satisfactorily disproved.
Even suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the appellants that the decree is erroneous because it is not proved,
as they contend, that the bankrupts procured or suffered
their property to be attached, sequestered, or seized by the
appellants, as charged in the bill of complaint, within the
true intent and meaning of the Bankrupt Act. Properly
viewed, they insist that their acts and conduct only show
that they have used the process of the State courts, as they
had a right to do, to collect their debts due from the insolvent company, and they submit the proposition that a creditor may lawfully do all he might have done before the
Bankrupt Act was passed to collect his debts, provided he has
no active or passive assistance from his debtor, whom he has
reasonable cause to believe to be insolvent, to help him to secure such a preference over the other creditors of the debtor
Creditors, it is conceded, are forbidden to sue out State
process, within the said four months, and employ it to create
20
VOL. xVI.

O80

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and perfect such liens on the property of their debtor, by his
active or passive assistance, but the proposition submitted is
that whatever they can obtain of their insolvent debtor, in
that way, under such process, by their own energy and activity, in spite of the debtor, they may lawfully retain, and
that such liens are not displaced or dissolved by any subsequent bankrupt proceedings.
Strong doubts are entertained whether the proposition
could be sustained, even if the theory of fact which it assumes was fully proved, as the fourteenth section of the
Bankrupt Act provides to the effect that the required instrument of assignment, when duly executed, shall vest in said
assignee the title to all the property and estate of the bankTupt, although the same is then attached on mesne process
as the property of the debtor, where the attachment was
:made within four months next preceding the commencement of the bankrupt proceedings, but it is not necessary to
,decide that question at this time, as the evidence is full to
the point that the judgment creditors in this case did have
the passive assistance of the bankrupt debtors in obtaining
their judgments and in perfecting their liens, under the
State process and laws, upon all the property, real and personal, of their debtors.
Throughout it was plainly the purpose of the principal
appellants to obtain a preference over the other creditors of
the bankrupt company, either by payment or assignment,
and it must be conceded that the officers of the company for
a time refused or declined to comply with any such request
,or intimation or in any way to promote their purpose, but
the facts and circumstances disclosed in the record fully warwant the conclusion of the Circuit Court that they ultimately
acquiesced in what was done by the appellants, even if they
did not actively promote the consummation of the several
measures which they, the appellants, adopted to perfect liens
upon all the visible property of the bankrupt company, unless it exceeded in value the amount of their judgments.*
* Hilliard on Bankruptcy, 3d ed., 322-80.

Dec; 1872.]

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.

Opinion of the court.

Sufficient is shown to satisfy the court that those having
charge of the affairs of the corporation respondents knew
that they were insolvent, and that they also knew that it was
the purpose and intent of the principal appellants to secure
a preference over the other creditors of the bankrupt corporation. Insolvent as they knew the company to be, they
could not, as reasonable men, expect that all the debts of
the company would be paid, and they must have known
that the appellants would secure a preference over all the"
other creditors of the company if they suffered them, without invoking the protecting shield of the Bankrupt Act, to
tecover judgments in the two-pending suits, and to perfect
the other measures which they subsequently adopted to give
effect to their liens upon all the property of the corporationbankrupts.*
- Tested by these considerations the court is of the opinion
that the findings of the Circuit Court were correct, and that
the allegations of the bill of complaint are sustained, as folrows: (1.) That the corporgtion respondents, within four.
mnonths before the filing of the petition against hem in bankiuptcy, did procure or suffer their property to be attached,
;equestered, or seized on execution by the principal appellunts, with a view to give a preference to such creditors by
guch attachment, sequestration, or seizure, over their other
&reditors. (2.) That the corporation respondents were insolvent at that time, or in contemplation of insolvency. (8.) That
the judgment creditors, at the time their said debtors procured or suffered such attachment, sequestration, or seizure
6f the aforesaid property belonging to the said debtors, had
reasonable cause to believe that the said debtors whose
property was so "attached, sequestered, or seized were insolvent, and that they procured or suffered such attachment,
equestration, or seizure of such property to be made to
secure such preference, 4nd in fraud of the provisions of the
IBanikrupt Act.t
M
Marshall v. Lamb, 5 Adolphus & Ellis, New Series , 126.
t Shawhan v. Wherritt, -7 Howard, 644; Fernald v. Gay, 12 Cushing,
696; Scammon, Assignee, v. Cole et al., 5 National Bankrupt Register, 257;

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.

[Sup. ot

Opinion of the court.

Insolvency in the sense of the Bankrupt Act means that
the party whose business affairs are in question is unable to,
pay his debts as they become due in the ordinary course of
his daily transactions, and a creditor may be said to have
reasonable cause to believe his debtor to be insolvent when
such a state of facts is brought to his notice respecting the
affhirs and pecuniary condition of his debtor, in a case like
the present, as would lead a prudent business man to the
conclusion that he, the debtor, is unable to meet his obligations as they mature in the ordinary course of business.
Such a party, that is, a creditor securing a preference from
his debtor over the other creditors of the debtor, cannot be
said to have had reasonable cause to believe that his debtor
was insolvent at the time unless such was the fact, but if it
appears that the debtor giving the preference, whether a
merchant or trading company, was actually insolvent and
that the means of knowledge upon the subject were at hand,
and that such faets and circumstances were known to the
creditor securing the preference, as clearly ought to have
put him, as a prudent man, upon inquiry, it would seem to
be a just rule of law to hold that he had reasonable cause to.
believe that the debtor was insolvent, if it appears that he
might have ascertained the fact by reasonable inquiry. Ordinary prudence is required of a creditor under such circumstances, and if he fails to investigate when put upon inquiry
he is chargeable with all the knowledge it is reasonable to,
suppose he would have acquired if he had performed his
duty.* Such proceedings, therefore, must be held invalid,
as they were promoted and prosecuted by the parties acting
in fraud of the Bankrupt Act, and inasmuch as that conclusion affects the judgments recovered by the appellants, it
will not be necessary to bestow much consideration upon
the subsequent proceedings to perfect the liens or to the
order for the appointment of a receiver, or to the second
Same case, 3 Id. 100; Smith, Assignee, v. Buchanan, 4 Id. 133; Same case,
8 Blatchford, 153.
* Toof v. Martin, Assignee, 13 Wallace, 40; Scammon, Assignee. v. Cole,
5 National Bankrupt Register, 263.

Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN

V.

SMITH.

Opinion of the court.

order extending his jurisdiction and enlarging his powers.
Evidently the judgments must be set aside as being super.seded by the proceedings in bankruptcy, and if so, it is quite
clear that all the subsequent proceedings founded upon those
judgments become inoperative and ineffectual to prevent the
assignee in bankruptcy from exercising the same power and
dominion over all the property and estate of the bankrupts,
as he might have exercised if such judgments had never
been rendered, or no such subsequent proceedings had ever
taken place. Creditors issuing executions on judgments
obtained upon demands long overdue against a bankrupt,
who has been pressed in repeated instances to pay or secure
the demands and has failed to do so because of his inability,
must be held to have had reasonable cause to believe that
his debtor was insolvent.*
It was suggested at the argument that the appointment
-ofthe receiver was an independent order of the State court,
and that the action of the State court must be regarded as
valid until it is set aside by some direct proceeding, but it
is a sufficient answer to that objection to say that the State
statute under which the appointment was made has no appli<.ation whatever to corporations, and that the proceeding
must be regarded as wholly unauthorized and void.t Judgment creditors of a corporation, it is held, do not obtain a
preference by such a proceeding, but must proceed accord,ng to the provisions of the article relative to the sequestralion of the property and effects of corporations for the benefit
,ofcreditors.1
Viewed in any light the court is of the opinion that neither
the decree of the State court appointing the receiver nor the
-order enlarging his powers, nor any of his proceedings under
those powers, afford any defence to the bill of complaint.
DECREE AFFIRMED.
* Wilson v. City Bank, Ib. 270; Foster v. Goulding, 9 Gray, 52.

j- Code,
292, 294; Hinds v. Railroad Co., 10 Howard's Practice Report,
487; Sherwood v. Railroad Co., 12 Id. 136.
t Sessions Acts, 1825, p. 449; 2 Revised Statutes, 463; Morgan v. Railroad, 10 Paige's Chaacery, 290; Loring v. Gutta-Percha and Packing Co., 86
Barbour, 32

SLAWSON V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

BRADLEY, J.:
I dissent from the opinion of the court just read. In my
opinion an adversary suit against an insolvent person may
be prosecuted to judgment up to the very moment of bankruptcy. The diligent debtor cannot be deterred from such
prosecution by a knowledge that his debtor is insolvent, or
by any apprehensions that bankrupt proceedings may be in
contemplation. He is not bound, himself, to petition against
his debtor in bankruptcy, nor does the neglect of his debtor
to file such a petition deprive him of his fairly-gained preference, unless complicity between them can be shown, of
which in my opinion there was no evidence in this case.
Justices MILLER and DAVIS did not sit.

SLAWSON v. UNITED STATES.
Under the proviso to the first section of the Abandoned and Captured Property Act, excluding from its benefits property which "has been used
in waging or carrying on war against the United States," the Court of
Claims was held to have rightly dismissed a petition asking for the proceeds of a vessel which had been so used at Charleston, S. C., though on
the evacuation of that place by the rebels, the quartermaster's department of the navy, in ignorance of how the boat had been used, chartered her and took her into the service of the government, and kept her
in such service for twelve months, when disregarding the claims of her
owner it turned her over to the Treasury Department for sale as captured property.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
An act of Congress, passed March 12th, 1863, and known
as the "Captured and Abandoned Property Act," enacted
that the Secretary of the Treasury might appoint agents to
receive and collect all abandoned or captured property in
any State engaged in the late rebellion. Such property the
act directed to be sold, and the proceeds to be paid into the
Treasury; and any person professing to be the owner, on
certain conditions prescribed, was authorized to prefer his
APPEAL

