Dec. 1872.]

CARLISLE V. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

goods, wares, and merchandise, or shall actually pay or
secure the purchase-money, or part thereof, or unless some
note oi memorandum in writing of the bargain be made and
signed by the party to be charged by such contract or his
agent thereunto lawfully authorized.
The finding of the Court of Claims negatives in the most
express terms the existence in the agreement, by which the
title of the cotton was supposed to be transferred, of each
and every one of the acts or conditions, some one of which
is by that statute made necessary to the validity of the contract.
To hold that an agreement which that statute declares
shall not be allowed to be good and valid was sufficient to
transfer the title of the property to the claimant, would be to
overrule the uniform construction of this or a similar clause
in all statutes of frauds by all the courts which have construed them.
The Court of Claims held that the agreement passed no
title, and we concur in their conclusion on that subject.
It is unnecessary to examine into the effect of the transaction as a gift inter vivos. The finding that there was no
delivery would be as fatal to such a gift as to the agreement
of sale. Besides there is nothing in the petition of the plaintiff, or in the findings of the Court of Claims, on which such
a gift could be considered as in the issue. The finding that
it was a parol contract of sale is directly opposed to the idea.
of a gift.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

CARLISLE V. UNITED STATES.
1. Aliens domiciled in the United States in 1862 were engaged in manufac.
turing saltpetre in Alabama, and in selling that article to the Confederate States, knowing that it was to be used by them in the manufacture
of gunpowder for the prosecution of the war of the rebellion; Held, that
they thus gave aid and comfort to the rebellion.
2. The doctrine of Hanauerv. Doane (12 Wallace, 342), that ,he who,
being bound by his allegiance to agovernment, sells goods to the agent

CARLISLE V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup Ct.

Statement of the case.
of an armed combination to overthrow that government, knowing that
the purchaser buys them for that treasonable purpose, is himself guilty
of treason or a misprision thereof," repeated and affirmed.
8. Aliens domiciled in the United States owe a local and temporary allegiance to the government of the United States; they are bound to obey
all the laws of the country, not immediately relating to citizenship,
during their residence in it, and are equally amenable with citizens for
any infraction of those laws. Those aliens who, being domiciled in the
country prior to the rebellion, gave aid and comfort to the rebellion,
were, therefore, subject to be prosecuted for violation of the laws of the
United States against treason and for giving aid and comfort to the
rebellion.
4. The proclamation of the President of the United States, dated December
25th, 1868, granting "unconditionally, and without reservation, to all
and to every person who, directly or indirectly, participated in the late
insurrection or rebellion, a full pardon and amnesty for the offence of
treason against the United States, or of adhering to their enemies
during the late civil war, with restoration of all rights, privileges, and
immunities under the Constitution and the laws which have been made
in pursuance thereof," includes aliens domiciled in the country who gave
aid and comfort to the rebellion.
5. The pardon and amnesty thus granted relieve claimants prosecuting in
the Court of Claims for the proceeds of captured and abandoned property, under the act of Congress of March 12th, 1863, from the consequences of participation in the rebellion, and the necessity of establishing their loyalty in order to prosecute their claims, which would otherwise be indispensable to a recovery.
6. By the proceeding known as a "petition of right," the government of
Great Britain accords to citizens of the United States the right to prosecute claims against that government in its courts, and therefore British
subjects, if otherwise entitled, may, under the act of Congress of July
27th, 1868, prosecute claims against the United States in the Court of
Claims.

THIs was an appeal from the Court of Claims. The
claimants there were subjects of the Queen of Great Britain,
but had been residents within the United States prior to the
war of the rebellion, arid during its continuance. In 1864
they were the owners of sixty-five bales of cotton stored on
a plantation in Alabama. This cotton was seized during
that year by naval officers of the United States and turned
over to an agent of the Treasury Department, by whom the
cotton was sold and the proceeds paid into the treasury.
The present action was brought in the Court of Claims
under the act of Congress of March 12th, 1863, kn wn as

Dec. 1872.]

CARLISLE V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

the Captured and Abandoned Property Act, to recover these
proceeds.
The court found that the claimants were the owners of
the cotton, and that it was seized and sold as stated, and
that the net proceeds, amounting to $43,232, were paid into
the treasury.
The court also found that the government of Great Britain
accords to citizens of the United States the right to prosecute
-claims against that government in its own courts; but that
the claimants were engaged, in 1862, in manufacturing saltpetre in Alabama, and selling that article to the Confederate
States, and that they thus gave aid and comfort to the rebelion, and for that reason were not entitled to recover the
proceeds of the cotton seized. Their petition was accordingly dismissed. The facts connected with the manufacture
and sale of the saltpetre are thus stated by the court in its
findings:
"From having, in 1860 and 1861, been engaged in the business of railroad contractors, they began in December, 1861,
the manufacture of saltpetre at Santa Cave, Alabama, and
continued engaged therein until the following April, when,
owing to the presence of United States troops in the vicinity,
1hey left the cave, and remained absent therefrom until the
J llowing October, when, immediately after the evacuation
4if Huntsville, Alabama, by the United States forces, they
7 esumed work in making saltpetre at said cave, and coni inued it about two months. Their right to make saltpetre
zhere was under a contract of lease between the owners of
the cave and other parties, which had been transferred to
the claimants, by whom it was, in May, 1863, sold and transferred to the so-called 'Confederate States of America' for
$34,600. On the 28th of March, 1862, the claimants sold to
the said Confederate States of America 2480 lbs. of saitpetre,
at 75 cents per pound, in all $1860, and received payment
therefor at Richmond, Virginia, on the 27th of June, 1862,
from a rebel captain of artillery; and on the 30th of November, 1862, they sold to the said ' Confederate States'
4209 lbs. of nitre, at 75 cents per pound, in all $3156.75,

CARLISLE V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and in the bill of the same, which the claimants receipted,
it was expressed that the said nitre was 'for manufacture
of gunpowder;' and the amount of said bill was paid at
Larkinsville, Alabama, on the 24th of December, 1862,
by the rebel ' superintendent of nitre and mining district
No. 9;' and the claimants hired to the said ' Confederate
States' wagons to transport the said nitre from Santa Cave
to Rome, Georgia."
From the decree dismissing the petition the claimants appealed to this court.
Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson, for the appellants; Mr. C.
-t. Hill, Assistant Attorney- General, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The circumstances attending the manufacture and sale of
the saltpet.re, as disclosed in the findings of the court, plainly
show that the claimants knew that the saltpetre was to be
used by the Confederates in the manufacture of gunpowder
for the prosecution of the war of the rebellion, and there is
little doubt that the sale was made in order to aid the Confederates in accomplishing their treasonable purposes. By
thus furnishing materials for the prosecution of the war
whilst they were domiciled in the country, knowing the uses
to which the materials were to be applied, the claimants became participators in the treason of the Confederates equally
as if they had been original conspirators with them. The
Court of Claims, therefore, did not err in its conclusion that
the act of the claimants in selling the saltpetre to the Confederates, under these circumstances, was an act of aid and
comfort to the rebellion. We have already held in Hanauer
v. Doane,* and we repeat and reaffirm what we there said,
that "he who, being bound by his allegiance to a government, sells goods to the agent of an armed combination to
overthrow that government, knowing that the purchaser
buys them for that treasonable purpose, is himself guilty of
* 12 Wallace, 347.

Dec. 1872.]

CARLISLE V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

treason or a misprision thereof. He voluntarily aids the
treason. He cannot be permitted to stand on the nice metaphysical distinction that, although he knows that the purchaser buys the goods for the purpose of aiding the rebellion,
he does not sell them for that purpose. The consequences
of his acts are too serious and enormous to admit of such a
plea. He must be taken to intend the consequences of his
own voluntary act."
But the aid and comfort thus given to the rebellion by
the claimants did not justify a denial of their right to recover the proceeds of their property in the treasury of the
United States after the proclamation of pardon and amnesty
made by the President on the 25th of December, 1868, unless their character as aliens excludes them from the benefit
of that proclamation, a question which we shall presently
consider. Assuming that they are within the terms of the
proclamation, the pardon and amnesty granted relieve them
from the legal consequences of their participation in the rebellion, and from the necessity of proving that they had not
thus participated, which otherwise would have been indis.
pensable to a recovery. It is true, the pardon and amnesty
do not and cannot alter the actual fact that aid and comfort
were given by the claimants, but they forever close the eyes
of the court to the perception of that fact as an element in
its judgment, no rights of third parties having intervened.
There has been some difference of opinion among the
members of the court as to cases covered by the pardon of
the President, but there has been none as to the effect and
operation of a pardon in cases where it applies. All have
agreed that the pardon not merely releases the offender from
the punishment prescribed for the offence, but that it obliterates in legal contemplation the offence itself.
When, therefore, in Padelford's case,* a claimant under
the Captured and Abandoned Property Act, who had given
ftid and comfort to the rebellion, appeared in the Court of
Claims, asking for a restoration of the proceeds of his prop.
* 9 Wallace, 531.

CARLISLE

V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

erty, and showing that he had taken the oath prescribed by
the proclamation of President Lincoln, of December 8th,
1863, and had since then kept the oath inviolate, and was
thereby by force of the proclamation pardoned, this court
held that after the pardon thus granted no offence connected
with the rebellion could be imputed to him; that if in other
respects he made the proof which under the act entitled
him to a decree for the proceeds of his property, the law
made the proof of pardon a complete substitute for proof
that he had given no aid or comfort to the rebellion; and
that a different construction would defeat the manifest intent of the proclamation and of the act of Congress which
authorized it.
In Klein's case,* which subsequently came before the
court, an act of Congress designed to deny to the pardon of
the President the effect and operation which the court had
thus adjudged to it, and which declared that an acceptance
of pardon without disclaimer should be conclusive evidence
of the acts pardoned, and be inoperative as evidence of the
rights conferred by it in the Court of Claims and in this
court, was held to be unconstitutional and void.
In Mrs. Armstrong's case,t which was here at the last
term, the court declined to consider whether the evidence
was sufficient to prove that the claimant had given aid and
comfort to the rebellion, and held that the proclamation of
pardon and amnesty issued by the President on the 25th of
December, 1868, entitled her to the proceeds of her captured
and abandoned property in the treasury, without proof that
she never gave such aid and comfort; that the proclamation
granting pardon unconditionally, and without reservation,
was a public act of which all courts of the United States
were bound to take notice, and to which all courts were
bound to give effect.
In Pargoud's case,j also here at the last term, the claimant
stated in his petition that he was guilty of participating in
the rebellion, but that he had been pardoned by the Presi* 13 Wallace, 128.

t lb. 154.

$: 1b. 156.

CARLISLE V.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

dent, by special act, in January, 1866, and also by operation
of the President's general proclamation. The Court of
Claims decided against the claimant on the ground that his
petition did not aver that he had not given any aid or comfort to the rebellion, and did not sufficiently aver a pardon
by the President. This court reversed the judgment, following the decision in Mrs. Armstrong's case, and holding
that the President's proclamation of December 25th, 1868,
relieved claimants of captured and abandoned property from
proof of adhesion to the United States during the civil war.
After these repeated adjudications, it must be regarded as
settled in this court that the pardon of the President, whether granted by special letters or by general proclamation,
relieves claimants of the proceeds of captured and abandoned
property from the consequences of participation in the rebellion, and from the necessity of establishing their loyalty
in order to prosecute their claims. This result follows
whether we regard the pardon as effacing the offence, blotting it out, in the language of the cases, as though it had
never existed, or regard persons pardoned as necessarily excepted from the general language of the act, which requires
claimants to make proof of their adhesion, during the rebellion, to the United States. It is not to be supposed that
Congress intended by the general language of the act to encroach upon any of the prerogatives of the President, and
especially that benign prerogative of mercy which lies in
the pardoning power. It is more reasonable to conclude
that claimants restored to their rights of property, by the
pardon of the President, were not in contemplation of Congress in passing the act, and were not intended to be embraced by the requirement in question. All general terms
in statutes should be limited in their application, so as not to
lead to injustice, oppression, or any unconstitutional operadon, if that be possible. It will be presumed that exceptions
were intended which would avoid results of that nature.*
Such being the general effect of pardon and amnesty
*

Unitea States v. Kirby, 7 Wallace, 482.

CARLISLE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

granted by the President, it only remains to consider whether the proclamation of December 25th, 1868, embraces
the claimants who were aliens domiciled in the country,
withit ,ts provisions. And upon this point we entertain no
doubt. The claimants were residents in the United States
prior to the commencement of the rebellion. They so allege
in their petition; they were, therefore, bound to obey all the
laws of the country, not immediately relating to citizenship,
during their sojourn in it; and they were equally amenable
with citizens for any infraction of those laws. "The rights
of sovereignty," says Wildman, in his Institutes on International Law,* "extend to all persons and things not privileged that are within the territory. They extend to all
strangers therein, not only to those who are naturalized and
to those who are domiciled therein, having taken up their
abode with the intention of permanent residence, but also
to those whose residence is transitory. All strangers are
under the protection of the sovereign while they are within
his territories, and owe a temporary allegiance in return for
that protection."
By allegiance is meant the obligation of fidelity and obedience which the individual owes to the government under
which he lives, or to his sovereign in return for the protection he receives. It may be an absolute and permanent obligation, or it may be a qualified and temporary one. The
citizen or subject owes an absolute and permanent allegiance
to his government or sovereign, or at least until, by some
open and distinct act, he renounces it and becomes a citizen
or subject of another government or another sovereign.
The alien, whilst domiciled in the country, owes a local and
temporary allegiance, which continues during the period of
his residence.
This obligation of temporary allegiance by an alien resident in a friendly country is everywhere recognized by publicists and statesmen. In the case of Thrasher, a citizen of
the United States resident in Cuba, who complained of inju* Wildman, p. 40.

Dec. 1872.]

CARLISLE V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

ries suffered from the government of that island, Mr. Webster, then Secretary of State, made, in 1851, a report to the
President in answer to a resolution of the House of Representatives, in which he said: "Every foreigner born residing
in a country owes to that country allegiance and obedience
to its laws so long as he remains in it, as a duty upon him
by the mere fact of his residence, and that temporary protection which he enjoys, and is as much bound to obey its
laws as native subjects or citizens. This is the universal
understanding in all civilized states, and nowhere a more
established doctrine than in this country." And again:
"Independently of a residence with intention to continue
such residence; independently of any domiciliation; independently of the taking of any oath of allegiance or of renouncing any former allegiance, it is well known that, by
the public law, an alien or a stranger born, for so long a
time as he continues within the dominions of a foreign government, owes obedience to the laws of that government,
and may be punished for treason or other crimes as a nativeborn subject might be, unless his case is varied by some
treaty stipulation."*
The same doctrine is stated in Hale's Pleas of the Crownt
East's Crown Law,t and Foster's Discourse upon High Treason,ยง all of which are treatises of approved merit.
Such being the established doctrine, the claimants here
were amenable to the laws of the United States prescribing
punishment for treason and for giving aid and comfort to
the rebellion. They were, as domiciled aliens in the country prior to the rebellion, under the obligation of fidelity
and obedience to the government of the United States.
They subsequently took their lot with the insurgents, and
would be subject like them to punishment under the laws
they violated but for the proclamation of the President of
December 25th, 1868. That proclamation, in its comprehensive terms, includes them and all others in like situation.
It grants "unconditionally, and without reservation, to all
Webster's Works, vol. vi, p. 526.
W
$ Vol. i, chap. 2, sec. 4.

t Vol. i, chap. 10.
Sec. 2, p. 185.

156

THE COLLECTOR V. DOSWELL & Co.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

and to every person who, directly or indirectly, participated
in the late insurrection or rebellion, a full pardon and amnesty for the offence of treason against the United States,
or of adhering to their enemies during the late civil war,
with restoration of all rights, privileges, and immunities
under the Constitution and the laws which have been made
in pursuance thereof."
The act of Congress of July 27th, 1868,* authorizes any
alien to prosecute claims against the United States in the
Court of Claims, where the government of which he is a
citizen or subject accords to citizens of the United States
the right to prosecute claims against such government in its
courts. In O'Keefe's caset it was held that, by the proceeding known as a "petition of right," the government of Great
Britain accords to citizens of the United States the right to
prosecute claims against that government in its courts, and
therefore that British subjects, if otherwise entitled, may

prosecute claims against the United States in the Court of
Claims. There is, therefore, no impediment to the recovery
by the claimants in this case of the net proceeds of their

cotton paid into the treasury.
The judgment of the Court of Claims must, therefore, be
and that court directed to enter judgment in favor
of the claimants for the amount of such net proceeds; and
it is
REVERSED,

SO ORDERED.

THE COLLECTOR

V. DOSWELL & CO.

1. Commercial brokers who act wholly as buyers (other parties acting as
sellers, and these, and not the brokers, receiving the purchase-money) do
not make "sales" as commercial brokers within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Act of July 13th, 1866, laying a tax of one-twentieth
of one per cent. on the amount of all sales made by such brokers.
2. This is not altered by the fact that the compensation to the brokers for
making purchases was one-half of one per cent. paid by the buyer,
* 16 Stat. at Large, 243.

t 11 W allace, 178.

