lite. 1872.]

JAMES V.

MILWAUKEE.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

JAMES V. MILWAUKEE.
AA act of legislature authorizing a municipal corporation tD lend its credit
to a railroad company specified, and to "any other railroadcompany duly
incorporated and organized for the purpose of constructing railroads,"
leading in a direction named, I"and which in the opinion of common
council are entitled to such aid from the city ;" authorizes the lending
of the city credit to a railroad company thereafterduly incorporated and
organized, as well as the lending of such credit to those in existence
when the act was passed.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin.

Mr. J. T. Cary, and 0. H. Waldo (counsel in another but
similar case), for the plaintiff in error; Mr. .E. G. Byan, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYKE stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
This action was brought by the plaintiffs in error to recover the amount of certain overdue interest coupons attached to twelve bonds issued by the city of Milwaukee to
the Milwaukee and Superior Railroad Company, and the
amount of like coupons attached to a like bond issued by
the city to the Milwaukee and Beloit Railroad Company.
The pleadings upon both sides are voluminous, but a
short statement of the case will be sufficient for the purposes
of this opinion.
The act of the legislature of Wisconsin of the 2d of April,
1853, authorized the city of Milwaukee to lend its credit to
certain specified railroad companies, upon the terms and
conditions prescribed. The act of the 12th of July, 1853,
declared that the provisions of the preceding act "are extended, and *shall include the Milwaukee and Watertown
Railroad Company, and any other railroadcompany duly incorporated and organized for the purpose of co.istructing railioads leading from the city of Milwaukee into the interior
of the State, which, in the opinion of the common council,
are entitled to aid from the city." The act of the 31st of

JAMES V. MILWAUKEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

March, 1854, extended the original act "to the South Wiscousin Railroad Company, or to any other railroad company
difly incorporated and organized for the purpose of constructing railroads" to connect with "any other railroad
having its terminus in said city, which, in the opinion of
the comninon council are entitled to aid from said city."
The act of March 18th, 1856, limited the amount of bonds
to be issued to an aggregate of $2,000,000.
The Milwaukee and Superior Railroad Company was incorporated by an act approved March 4th, 1856, and the
Milwaukee and Beloit Railroad Company by another act
approved on the same day.
On the 11th of June, 1856, the common council passed an
ordinance authorizing the issue of bonds to the first named
company to an amount not exceeding $100,000, and on the
same day another ordinance, authorizing the issue of like
bonds, not exceeding the same amount, to the latter company. Both ordinances were approved and ratified by a
popular vote in the manner prescribed by the statutes.
The bonds and coupons in question in this case were thereupon executed and delivered. They purport on their face
to be issued in pursuance of the act of" April 2d, 1853, and
of the several acts amendatory thereto."
Upon the trial in the Circuit Court the learned judge instructed the jury that the acts referred to had no application
to railroad companies not in existence when they took effect,
and that "there was no authority for the city to issue these
bonds, and they are void, and the plaintiffs cannot recover."
The plaintiffs in error excepted.
The only question which we have found it necessary to
consider is the correctness of this ruling, and that depends
upon the construction to be given to the language of the act
of July 12th, 1853, whereby it is declared that the provisions
of the prior act "are extended and shall include" the railroad specially named, "and any other railroad company duly
incorporated and organized for the purpose of constructing
railroads leading from the city of Milwaukee," &c. The

Dec. 1872.]

JAMES V. MILWAUKEE.

Opinion of the court.

defendant in error insists that the power conferred was confined to companies already in existence at the date of the
act, and such was the opinion of the court below. We entertain a different opinion.
In this inquiry the intention of the legislature is to be
sought for. That, whatever it may be, constitutes the law.
If it had been intended to limit the scope of the act to preexisting corporations, we cannot doubt that the term heretofore, or some equivalent phrase, would have been employed,
in the proper place. This would have made the effect of
the act what is contended for by the defendant in error. If
the word hereafter had been used, that would have produced
the opposite result. In either case the effect of the term
employed would have been exclusive. In the former, the
act would have applied only to companies already existing,
and, in the latter, only to those of later creation. The language is, "any other railroad company duly incorporated
and organized." No tense is expressed and no particular
time is indicated. There is nothing which limits and points
its meaning any more to companies then, than to those
thereafter, organized. It is applicable, and in all respects
alike applicable, to both, and we think both were intended
to be included.
This view of the subject derives support from the plain
reason and object not only of this act, but of the entire
series of acts upun the subject. They are all in parimateria,
constitute a common context, and are to be regarded as if
embraced in the same statute.* The presence of railroads,
and especially of their termini, are beneficial to cities by increasing their business and promoting their growth. Such
works animate all the sources of local prosperity. In the
case before us, doubtless quite as much was anticipated as
could, under any circumstancesi have been realized. The
legislature intended to give the city the full benefit of this
policy. Companies organized and those to be organized
were alike important. The restrictions and safeguards proSmith's Com. 758.
VoL. xvI.

11

GARNHARTS

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CtL

Syllabus.

vided are applicable to both. They are found in the required sanction of the common council, the approval of the
voters, the limitation of the maximum of credit to be given
to each company selected, and the limitation of the maximum of the aggregate of such credits. No reason can be
imagined why one class should be embraced and the other
excluded. There is no consideration, affirmative or negative, which does not apply alike to both. No discrimination
is made in any of the acts, and both classes are within the
language employed.
The construction practically given by the parties interested, as evinced by their conduct, is in harmony with the
views we have expressed, and is not without weight.*
The common council deliberately passed the ordinances,
the electors approved them, the mayor subscribed and issued
the bonds, and the companies received them as valid. We
do not learn that there was any doubt or dissent as to the
question of legal authority until after both companies had
become hopelessly bankrupt.
Our attention has been called to numerous parallelisms
of language in other statutes of Wisconsin, where there is,
as in this case, clearly a prospective meaning. Doubtless
such analogies might be found in abundance elsewhere.
But we deem it unnecessary to pursue the subject further.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with direc-

tions to proceed
IN

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

GARNHARTS V. UNITED STATES.

Where, on an information for breach of the internal revenue laws, the
record shows that an answer of a claimant was stricken out by the

court, in a case in which he was entitled to a trial by jury, and judgment rendered against him as upon default, the court will not presume
that the order was passed for good cause, unless enough is shown in the
record to warrant such a conclusion.

* Meyer v. Muscatine, 1 Wallace, 384.

