THE MARY EVELINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

TIE MARY EVELINE.
1. Though a sailing vessel having the wind is prima facie bound to adopt
such a course as will prevent collision with other sailing vessels not
having it, it is still the duty of these last in an emergency to make their
courses so as not to render it difficult for the vessel having the wind to
do her duty by rendering it doubtful what movement she should make.
2. This principle applied to a case where a vessel having the wind, in
order to avoid a very strong tide (that in Hell Gate), was sailing so
close to a shore wall that she could not safely have lessened the distance,
and where the position of the other vessels in regard to a third vessel
made it dangerous for the vessel having the wind to luff.
3. Under these circumstances the vessel having the wind held justified in
having kept her course.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York.
On the afternoon of September 20th, 1868, the sloop Ethan
Allen and the schooner Mary Eveline came in collision while
navigating the East River, near Blackwell's Island. The
sloop was sunk and her cargo was lost. Her owners filed

their libel against the schooner and her owners, claiming as

damages the value of the sloop and her cargo. The libel
was dismissed in the District Court, and the decree was
affirmed in the Circuit Court. The libellants appealed to
this court.
Mr. B. -. Huntley, for the appellants; Mr. F. A. Wilcox,
contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The Ethan Allen was going eastward through Hell Gate,
on her passage to some port in Connecticut. The wind was
fresh and blowing fiom the southwest. She was running
against a strong ebb-tide, and for the purpose of avoiding
the strength of the tide was running close under the eastern
shore of Blackwell's Island. Her hull was within about
seventy-five feet of the wall of the island, and her sails on
her port side came within twenty or thirty feet of the island.

Dec. 1872.]

THE MARY EVELINE.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

The Eveline was sailing in the opposite direction, towards
New York, and was close in company with the schooner
Hawley, the latter being ahead. The two schooners were
beating up against the wind. On the last tack before the
collision the Eveline was so close to the Hawley that when
the latter tacked the former was obliged to keep off so as to
go under the Hawley's stern. By the time the Eveline got
well under way on the last tack the Hawley had crossed the
river, and made her next tack near the Blackwell shore, and
passed but a little way in front of the Allen. The Eveline
passed o.n under the Hawley's stern, keeping off the wind
for that purpose. As she luffed to go about she ran directly
into the Allen, striking her on the starboard bow. The answer admits that the Eveline took a direction to the leeward
and astern of the Hawley, and that she just cleared her stern.
It alleges, also, that the collision occurred through the sudden and confused orders of the Allen, and especially in this:
that she first kept off and then luffed, whereby it became
impossible for the Eveline to avoid the collision. The prim
facie duty of avoiding the collision no doubt rested upon the
vessel having the advantage of the wind. She was bound
to adopt such course as would protect all the vessels, assuming that the other vessels would do their duty also. It was,
however, the duty of the other vessels so to make their
courses as not to render it embarrassing or difficult for the
sloop to do her duty, or to make it doubtful what she should
do in the emergency. The schooners were bound to take
reasonable precautions on their part. The sloop, although
having the wind, was not a guarantor against collision.
The channel was some 650 to 750 feet in width. The
schooners were each 160 feet in length, occupying one half
of the width of the channel. The Allen was close to Blackwell's Island. Her position there was not only the best for
herself, but in thereby giving to the schooners nearly the
whole of the channel, was the best positibn oU their account.
She kept steadily on her course as near to the island as she
could safely pass. The vessels had been in sight for some
time and each well understood the position of the other.

THE MARY EVELINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The answer alleges that the Allen should have avoided
the difficulty by luffing or keeping off. It does not, however,
specify which she should have done. Her hull was within
seventy-five feet of the island wall, and her sails within twenty
or thirty feet of the wall. This was, of itself, a hazardous
proximity. It would have been very unsafe to have lessened
this distance. The evidence is that she was running as close
to the shore as it was safe for her to do. She could not,
therefore, have kept off. If she had luffed, she would have
brought herself out into the narrow channel, where the
Hawley and the Eveline were both beating across in front
of her, and the danger of a collision would have been much
greater than by adopting the course she did.
We are of the opinion that, under the circumstances, the
Allen did right in keeping her course, and that the fault was
with the Eveline rather than with the Allen. If the Eveline
bad tacked when the Hawley did, she would have avoided
the collision. This would have brought her out of the way,
leaving the passage next to the island clear for the Allen.
Again, she should not have changed her course by keeping
away on the last tack, thus rendering necessary a larger
sweep to go about and bringing her nearer to the Allen,
when her course could not be changed. If she was at this
point in a position of embarrassment it was her own fault.
She saw it in advance, should have known it, and avoided
it, by keeping further to the leeward of the Hawley, or by
making her tack at an earlier period. She cannot shift
upon another the consequence of an embarrassment produced by her own fault.
The captain of the Eveline did not expect the Allen to
luff into the channel. He testifies that he supposed she
would go to the Blackwell Island side, and that there was
plenty of room for her there. He acted upon this theory,
in which we think he was greatly in error, and the collision
was the result.
On the most of the points of the case there is, as is usual
in collision cases, a great conflict of evidence. Upon a care-

Dec. 1872.]

MARQUEZE V. BLOOM.
Statement of the case.

ful review of the testimony, we think the error was with the
schooner Eveline, and that the libel should not have been
dismissed.
DECREE REVERSED and record remitted with instructions
to enter judgment for libellants, and for further proceedings

IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION.

[See the preceding case.]

MARQUEZE v. BLOOM.
A case brought here as within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act dismissed; neither the record nor the opinion of the Supreme Court,
which was in the records, showing any question before that court, except one relating to the interruption of a " prescription " (statute of
limitations) set up as a defence, and the opinion showing that this question was decided exclusively upon the principles of the jurisprudence of
the State.

ON motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the State of Louisiana.
Marqueze & Co. brought this suit in the Fourth District
Court of the Parish of Orleans, in Louisiana, on the 19th of
April, 1866, against Bloom, Kahn, and Levi, trading as
Bloom, Kahn & Co. The petition was for the recovery of
money alleged to be due to the plaintiffs, for certain merchandise sold to the defendants during the first six months
of 1861, amounting with interest, to $1045. The defendants, except Levi, pleaded the prescription of three years.
Levi pleaded the same prescription, averring that at the
time of the sale of the goods and since, until the commencement of the suit, he resided in the city of New Orleans.
The District Court gave judgment against all the defendants.
Levi alone appealed to the Supreme Court, and the judgment
as to him was reversed.
The opinion of the Supreme Court was in the record, and
it appeared that the only question before that court related

