RIPLEY V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

became and was the party by law entitled to the deed from
the probate judge; and,
2d. That the appellant, by omitting to sign and deliver
the statement required by section four of the Territorial
statute, became barred of the right to the lands, both in law
and equityWe are of the opinion that the judgment of the court
below, dismissing the complaint, was correct, and that it
must be
AFFIRMED.

RIPLEY V. INSURANCE COMPANY.
One took out an accident policy of insurance on his life while " travelling by
public or private conveyance." Having performed a part of his journey
by steamer, which brought him to a certain village, he walked thence
home about eight miles. Held, that while thus walking, he was not
travelling by either public or private conveyance.
'ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Michigan; the case being this:
On the 8th of May, 1869, one Ripley took out an accident
policy of insurance on his life, "good for one day," for $5000.
It stipulated for the payment of that sum to the legal representatives of the assured, in the event of his death, from injuries effected through violent and accidental means; provided that the death was caused by an accident while the
assured was "travelling by public or private conveyance."
After purchasing the ticket, the insured proceeded by
steamboat to a village about eight miles from his residence,
and from that village he walked home. While on his way he
received injuries by violence, from the effects of which he
died soon afterwards, and within the time limited by the
policy.
The question was whether, when he received the injuries,
he was "travelling by public or private conveyance." The
court below held that he was not; and this holding was the
error complained of.

Dec. 1872.]

RIPLEY V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

.,7-

Argument for the representatives of the insured.

Mr. George Gray, for the plaintfif in error:
In Northrup v. The Railway Passengers'Assurance Company,*
the contract was against accident" while travelling by public,
or private conveyance," provided for the transportationof it&
passengers. Yet the company was held liable though the
death was caused while the party was walking from a steamboat landing to a railway station, a distance of seventy rods.
This case regards the walking as part of the original journey in the public or private conveyance, and wisely; for
few persons on a long journey are all the time in the rail
carriages. The case does but carry out the injunction giveil
by Cockburn, 0. J., in Trew v. Railway Passengers'Assurance
Company:t
"We ought not to give to these policies a construction which
will defeat the protection of the assured in a large class atf
cases."
But, independently of this. The words "private convey..
ance," reasonably, and ex vi termini, include the case of a
person pursuing a journey, or travelling, by means of his,
own personal powers of locomotion; his limbs with their
muscles and tendons, bones and joints-the primitive universal "private conveyance" of man. "Conveyance" is
the instrument or means of carrying or transferring anything from place to place. It is derived from con (with, by,.
along), and via (the way).1 It is used in this sense in the
Scriptures, where it is said that the Saviour had "conveyed
himself away."ยง So in poetry,
" Love cannot, like the wind, itself convey
To fill two sails, though both are spread one way."
Howard.

And so in ordinary language and in everyday life. Should
a court direct its officer to "convey the prisoner to jail," no
one will doubt that the prisoner's walking to the place des* 48 New York, 516; and see Theobald v. The Railway Passengers' Assurance Co., 26 English Law and Equity, 432
J John 5:13.
$ Webster.
t 30 L. J. Exchequer, 317.
22
VOL. XVi.

MERRILL V. PETTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

ignated would be a literal and exact compliance with the
order. If one were to say to an intruder, "Convey yourself
away," the speaker would have no idea but that the party
should walk off; nor would the party himself expect that
anything else was meant.
Mr. H. C. _obinson, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
That the deceased was travelling is clear enough, but was
travelling on foot travelling by public or private conveyance?
The contract must receive the construction which the lan
guage used fairly warrants. What was the understanding
of the parties, or, rather, what understanding must naturally have been derived from the language used? It seems
to us that walking would not naturally be presented to the
mind as a means of public or private conveyance. Public
conveyance naturally suggests a vessel or vehicle employed
in the general conveyance of passengers. Private conveyance suggests a vehicle belonging to a private individual.
If this was the sense in which the language was understood by the parties, the deceased was not, when injured,
travelling, within the terms of the policy. There is nothing
to show that it was not.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

MERRILL V. PETTY.

An appeal on a libel in personam for a collision by the owners of a schooner
against the owners of a sloop that had been sunk in the collision, dismissed; the decree having been for $1292.84, and, therefore, "not ex.-eeding the sum or value of $2000." The fact that prior to this libel in
personam, the owners of the sloop had filed in another district a libel
in rem against the schooner, laying their damages at $4781.84, and that
in the District and Circuit Courts below, both cases might have been
hearl as one (a fact asserted by counsel but not apparent in the record),

