BANK V. TURNBULL & Co.

[-sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

for, shall be null and void. Nor was it necessary to the decree that was entered that such a decision should have been
made. After the land had been sold by Adsit to bond fide
purchasers without notice, which had been decreed in the
court below, from which decree there was no appeal-after
it had thus been settled that there was no continuing trust
in the land-it may well have been determined that the
plaintiff's remedy against Adsit was at law, and not in
equity, even if the sale from Holmes to him was utterly void.
But whatever may have been the reasons for the decision,
whether the court had jurisdiction of the case or not, is a
question exclusively for the judgment of the State court.
We need not pursue the subject further. It is enough
that it does not appear the claim of the plaintiff, that the sale
of Holmes to Adsit was a nullity because of the act of Congress, was necessarily involved in the decision, or that the
sale was decided to be valid, or that the same decree would
not have been made if the invalidity of the sale had been
acknowledged.
WRIT DISMISSED.

BANK V. TURNBULL & CO.
Where a proceeding in a State court is merely incidental and auxiliary to
an original action there-a graft upon it, and not an independent and
separate litigation-it cannot be removed into the Federal courts under
the act of 2d of March, 1867, authorizing under certain conditions the
transfer of "suits" originating in the State courts.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Virginia;
the case being thus:
By the statute law of the State just named, it is enacted,
that when an execution has been levied, and a party other
than the defendant asserts a claim to the property levied on,
the sheriff, before proceeding to sell, may require of the
plaintiff an indemnifying bond, upon the delivery of which
the claimant of the property may execute "a suspending

Dec. 1872.]

BANK V. TURNBULL & CO.
Statement of the case.

bond," the effect of which is to delay the sale until the claim
thereto can be adjusted. If the claimant desires that the
property should remain in the same possession as when the
levy was made, he may execute "a forthcoming bond,"
and thereupon the property remains in such possession at
the risk of the claimant. This is the statute remedy to try
in such case the right of property, and is termed an interpleader.
This statute being in force, the First National Bank at
Alexandria, Virginia, obtained a judgment in the State Circuit Court for the county of Alexandria, against Abijah
Thomas for $4700, with interest and costs. Upon this judgment an execution issued and was levied upon some cotton
at Alexandria. Certain persons, to wit, Alexander and John
Turnbull, citizens of the State of Maryland, with Alexander
Reach, a citizen of the State of New York, trading together as
Turnbull & Co., asserted a claim as owners of the property
thus levied on, and, thereupon, the sheriff, before proceeding
further under his levy, demanded of the plaintiff in the execution an indemnifying bond, which demand was complied
with. Turnbull & Co., then caused to be executed both a
suspending and forthcoming bond, thereby preventing a sale
of the property levied on. Under authority of the statute,
the Circuit Court of Alexandria, in which the judgment was
rendered, upon the petition of Turnbull & Co., as claimants
of the property, entered an order, directing an issue to be
tried by a jury, to determine the right to the property thus
levied on, and in such order adjudged that Turnbull & Co.
should be plaintiffs on the trial of the issue. Before any
further action, however, was taken under this order, Turnbull & Co. filed a petition to said court, praying for a removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Virginia. This petition was filed in virtue
of the act of Congress of March 2d, 1867, which enacts:
"That where a suit is now pending or may hereafter be
brought, in any State court in which there is a controversy be-ween a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought and a
citizen of another State, and the matter in dispute exceeds

BANK V. TURNBULL

& Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the bank.

$500, exclusive of costs, such citizen of another State, whether
he be plaintiff or defendant, may [on compliance with certain
conditions prescribed] file a petition in such State court for the
removal of the suit into the next Circuit Court of the United
States, to be held in the district where the suit is pending, and
offer good and sufficient surety for his entering in such court on
chc first day of its session copies of all process, pleadings, depositions, testimony, and other proceedings in said suit, . . . and

it shall be, thereupon, the duty of the State court to accept the
surety, and proceed no further in the suit. And the said copies
being entered as aforesaid in such court of the United States,
the suit shall then proceed in the same manner as if it had been
brought there by original process."
The application to the State court was refused, and TurnDull & Co. thereupon petitioned the judge of the District
Court at chambers for a mandamus to compel the removal.
This being granted, the case was brought into the Circuit
Court and there docketed.
Upon the calling of the case there, a motion was made by
the counsel for the bank to dismiss the same for want of
jurisdiction, which motion was overruled, and thereupon, a
written stipulation was signed by the counsel of the respective parties providing that a jury should be waived, and the
cause submitted to the decision and judgment of the court.
Upon a full hearing of the case under such submission, the
court decided, that the property in controversy was not liable
to the execution of the bank, and gave judgment in favor
of Turnbull & Co., with costs. To that judgment a writ of
error was sued out from this court.
The record did not show that any process had been
issued or declaration filed against the bank; or that the
bank had pleaded, demurred, or otherwise answered.
On the calling of the case here, after the judges had
looked at the record, the Chief Justice signified to the counsel that the court was not satisfied that the case had been
one for removal under the act of March 2d, 1867, to the
Circuit Court, and directed them to speak to that point.
Hr.
L0

. Claughton, for the .plaintiff in error, argued that

Dec. 1872.]

BA-N

v. TURN.ULL & CO.

193

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

this was so, and that the Circuit Court below ought not to
have received it, but to have left it with the County Court of
Alexandria. The statutes, he argued, authorized the transfer of nothing but "a suit;" and in West v. Aurora City,*
this court had decided that the only sort of suit removable
from a State court to the Federal court, was a suit regularly
commenced by process served upon the defendant. There
was nothing of that sort here. What was transferred was,
in fact, not "a suit," but an incident to a suit, a collateral
question springing out of it. That a proceeding incider
tal to another suit is not a "suit" within the spirit of the
act, was settled by this court in Gwin V. Breedlovet Huff -.
.utchinson,t and Freeman v. Howe.ยง
.r.F. L. Smith, contra:
In The City Council of Charleston v. Weston,j the question
arose as to whether or not a prohibitionwas a suit within the
meaning of the 25th section of the Judiciary Act. Marshall, C. J., in answer to this question, speaking for the
court, says of the word suite
"The term is certainly a very comprehensive one, and is
understood to apply to any proceeding in a court of justice by
which an individual pursues that remedy in a court of justice
which the law affords him. The modes of proceeding may be
various, but if the right is litigated between parties in a ccurt
of justice, the proceeding by which the decision is sought, is a
suit."
In -Holmesv. Jennison, Taney, C. J., delivering the opinion
of the court, entirely concurs in this definition, given by
Chief Justice Marshall.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The bank recovered a judgment against Abijah Thomas
for $4700, and interest, in the Circuit Court for the county
* 6 Wallace, 139.
j 2 Howard, 29.
$ 14 Id. 586.
24 Id. 450.
2 Peters, 465; and see Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheaton, 413; and Ex
parte Milligan, 4 Wallace, 2.

14 Peters, 340.
VOL. XVI.

1

BANK v. TURNBULL & CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of Alexandria. A writ of fieri facias was issued to the
sheriff of that county, and was levied upon certain personal
property to satisfy the judgment. Turnbull & Co. claimed
the property as theirs. The plaintiff gave the sheriff an indemnifying bond and required him to sell. To prevent this
Turnbull & Co. gave him a suspending bond, and, in order
to have the property retained in the possession of Thomas,
also a forthcoming bond. Turnbull & Co. thereupon applied
to the Circuit Court of the county for leave to intervene in
the original suit, and to order an issue to try the right of
property. The prayer of the petition was granted, and an
order was made that a jury should be sworn to try the issue
whether the property levied upon belonged to Turnbull &
Co., or to Thomas, and that Turnbull & Co. should be regarded as the plaintiffs in the proceeding. Without availing themselves of this order Turnbull & Co. thereupon
applied to the Circuit Court for the county for an order to
remove the cause, under the act of Congress of 1867, to the
Circuit Court of the United States for that district. This
was refused, and they thereupon petitioned the judge of the
District Court of the United States, sitting at chambers, for
a writ of mandamus directed to the Circuit Court for the
county. The writ was allowed and issued, and the cause
was removed according to the prayer of the petitioners. In
the Circuit Court of the United States the bank moved to
dismiss for want of jurisdiction. The motion was overruled.
The parties thereupon waived a jury and submitted the
cause to the court. The court found for Turnbull & Co.,
and gave judgment in their favor. The bank took a bill of
exceptions, setting forth all the evidence, and excepting to
the judgment given.
Upon examining the record we find there was no process
issued against the bank, no declaration filed -by Turnbull &
Co., and no plea or other written response by the bank.
The record is a blank as to these things.
It may well be doubted whether so informal a proceeding
as imit presented by this record is a " sdt" within the mean-

Dec. 1872.]

BANK

v.

TURNBULL

& CO.

Opinion of the court.

ing of the act of Congress under which the right of removal
was claimed and allowed.* But, as we do not propose to
place our judgment on that ground, it is not necessary to
consider the subject.
Conceding it to be a suit, and not essentially a motion, we
think it was merely auxiliary to the original action, a graft
upon it, and not an independent and separate litigation. A
judgment had been recovered in tlhe original suit, final process was levied upon the property in question to satisfy it,
the property was claimed by Turnbull & Co., and this proceeding, authorized by the laws of Virginia, was resorted to
to settle the question whether the property ought to be so
applied. The contest could not have arisen but for the judgment and execution, and the satisfaction of the former would
at once have extinguished the controversy between the parties. The proceeding was necessarily instituted in the court
where the judgment was rendered, and whence the execution issued. No other court, according to the statute, could
have taken jurisdiction. It was provided to enable the court
to determine whether its process had, as was claimed, been
misapplied, and what right and justice required should be
done touching the property in the hands of its offier. It
was intended to enable the court, the plaintiff in the original
action, and the claimant, to reach the final and proper result
by a process at once speedy, informal, and inexpensive. That
it was only auxiliary and incidental to the original suit is,
we think, too clear to require discussion. We shall content
ourselves with referring to some of the leading authorities
which bear upon the subject.t
The judgment of the court below is REVERSED, and the
cause will be REMANDED to that court with directions to enter
a judgment of reversal, and then to remit the case to the
Circuit Court for the county of Alexandria, whence it came.
Mr. Justice STRONG dissented.
* West v. Aurora City, 6 Wallace, 142.

t Gwin v. Breedlove, 2 Howard, 35; Freeman v. Howe, 24 Id. 460; Dunn
v. Clarke, 8 Peters, 1; Williams v. Byrne, Hempstead, 472.

