STEAMBOAT

COMPANY V.

CHASE.

Esup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Nor is the case governed by that class of cases in which a
mandamus will lie against a government officer to compel
him to perform a ministerial duty. Such a writ is issued,
or is supposed to be issued, by the government itself, to
compel its officials to do their duty to its citizens.

STEAMBOAT

COMPANY V.

CHASE.

A statute of a State giving to the next of kin of a person crossing upon one
of its public highways with reasonable care, and killed by a common
carrier by means of steamboats, an action on the case for damages forthe injury caused by the death of such person, does not interfere with
the admiralty jurisdiction of the District Courts of the United States, asconferred by the Constitution and the Judiciary Act of September 24th,
1789; and this is so, even though no such remedy enforceable through
the admiralty existed when the said act was passed, or has existed since.

the Supreme Court of Rhode Island.
A statute of the State just named,* passed in October,
1853, and relating to common carriers by means of steamboats, enacts :
ERROR to

"SECTION 16. If the life of any person crossing upon a publie
highway with reasonable care, shall be lost by reason of the
negligence or carelessness of such common carriers, or by the
unfitness or negligence or carelessness of their servants or
agents, in this State, such common carriers shall be liable to
damages for the injury caused by the loss of life of such person,
to be recovered by action on the case, for the benefit of the husband or widow and next of kin of the deceased person.
"SE cTION 21. In all cases in which the death of any persons
ensues from injury inflicted by the wrongful act of another,
and in which an action for damages might have been maintained
at the common law had death not ensued, the person inflicting
such injury shall be liable to an action for damages for the injury caused by the death of such person, to be recovered by
* Revised Statutes, chapter 176.

Of Actions.

Dec. 1872.]

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. CHASE.

.523

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

action on the case for the use of his or her husband, widow,
children, or next of kin," &c.
These statutory provisions being in force in Rhode Island,
but no such right enforceable through the admiralty having
been given by Congress, a steamer owned by the American
Steamboat Company, common carriers upon Karraganset
Bay (a public highway, and tidal waters running between
Providence and Newport, both within :Rhode Island), negligently ran over one'George Cook crossing upon that bay
with reasonable care, in a sailboat, and killed him. Thereupon Chase, administrator of Cook, brought suit against the
steamboat company in one of the State courts of Rhode
Island. The company set up that the court had not jurisdiction of the cause of action on the ground that under the
Constitution of the United States-which ordains that
"The judicial power of the United States shall extend to ALL
cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction"And under the ninth section of the Judiciary Act approved September 24th, 1789, which section says that
" The -DistrictCourts shall have exclusive originalcognizance of
all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,saving to
suitors in all cases the right of a common-law remedy when the
common law is adequate to give it"exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction was vested in the District Courts;
that the courts of common law had only such jurisdiction
of marine torts as was conferred by the saving clause in the
ninth section of the act, and that actions for damages for loss
of life did not come within the clause.
The court, however, sustained the jurisdiction; and verdict and judgment having been given for the plaintiff in
$12,000, and the Supreme Court of the State having affirmed
that judgment, the cause was removed to this court.
Messrs. . A. Gardnerand B. F. Thurston, for the plaintiff
inerror:
The question is, can a court of common law exercise ju-

STEAMBOAT

COMPANY V.

CHASE

[[Sup.

Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

risdiction, and give a remedy to a suitor for a consequential
injury growing out of a marine tort, when no remedy for
such injury exists in the admiralty?
Or, assuming that under the general jurisdiction of courts
of admiralty cognizance of such action could be entertained by a district court of the United States, can a suitor
have a remedy in a court of common law, when the right to
such action is created by a State statute, passed subsequent
to September 24th, 1789?
The obvious purpose of the Constitution and of the ninth
section of the Judiciary Act, was to create a maritime court
for the purpose of administering the universal law of the
seas upon the basis of the civil system, known to maritime
states, in distinction from a court familiar only with the
limited jurisprudence of the common law system. Indeed,
there is an obvious propriety in excluding the courts of common law from adjudicating upon subjects which are, from
their nature, of admiralty cognizance, except to the extent
recognized and permitted by the acts of Congress. A jury
of landsmen unfamiliar with the rules and necessities of
navigation, is imperfectly qualified to administer justice in
a case, the turning-point in which, on the question of liability, can be settled only after a skilled and intelligent
weighing of acts done by the respective parties in the exercise of a science requiring special knowledge and aptitude
to understand.
As the grant of admiralty jurisdiction to the district courts
embraces all subjects which from their nature belong to the
admiralty, and is exclusive in its general character,* it follows that the Federal and the State courts of common law
have no other jurisdiction over the same subjects than that
which is conferred by the saving clause of the ninth section
of the act of 1789, which is in the words, I"saving to suitors in
all cases the right of a common-law remedy, where the common
law is competent to give il."t
Now a statutory action for damages for loss of life re* The Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, 457; The Hine, 4 Wallace, 556.
t Tbhe Moses Taylor, 4 Wallace, 412.

Dec. 1872.]

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. CHASE.

525

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

sulting from a collision on navigable waters was unknown
to both the common law and the admiralty in 1789.* It has
not been since, by legislation of Congress, given to the admiralty. It, therefore, cannot have been saved to the common-law courts, either directly or by implication. Neither
was such remedy saved if known to the admiralty and unknown to the common law. Not only are the remedies
which are saved confined to common-law remedies,t but ofily
such concurrent remedies are saved as the common law was
then competent to give. In The Hine v. Trevor,T this court
remarked:
"It could not .have been the intention of Congress by the
exception in that section, to give the suitor all such remedies
as might afterwards be enacted by State statutes, for this
would have enabled the States to make the jurisdiction of their
courts concurrent in all cases, by simply providing a statutory
remedy for all cases. Thus the exclusive jurisdiction of the
Federal courts would be defeated. In the act of 1845, where
Congress does this, the language expresses it clearly. There is
added 'any concurrent remedy which may be given by the
State laws, where such steamer or other vessel is employed."'
It is not to be presumed that it was the intention of Congress, at the moment that it was given to the Federal courts
the exclusive "cognizance of civil causes of admiralty jurisdiction, to save to the common-law courts any greater right
than it conferred upon the admiralty courts. It is an existing common-law remedy which is saved to suitors for rights
recognized by the admiralty.
It is important to observe that the privilege is a personal
one to suitors. It is not a jurisdiction conferred on courts,
or a power vested in State legislatures to create new rights of
action, affecting subjects coming within the law of the sea.ยง
* Such action was not allowed in England until 9 Victoria (1846), when
it was given by the statute known as Lord Campbell's act. There was no
legislation on this subject by any of the United States earlier than the English statute, and most of the American statutes are, in substance, copies of
the English statute.
t The Moses Taylor, 4 Wallace, 431.
Ilb. 572.

The Belfast, 7 Wallace, 624.

STEAMBOAT

COMPANY V.

CHASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

Nowhere have the courts intimated that claims founded on
marine torts, where the right of the party to proceed in ren,
or in personam, in the admiralty to enforce such claims is
not recognized, he can pursue such claims under a right
given by State laws, in the common-law courts.
A suit to recover damages for loss of life resulting from a
collision of two vessels on the seas is in its nature proper
for admiralty cognizance. The suit is founded on the collision itself, a subject exclusively cognizable in the admiralty; and by the act of 1789, the derivative suit, if cognizable
anywhere, should be exclusively cognizable in the admiralty.
If, from an omission by Congress to create by a new statute
a right to maintain it there, such a suit cannot be so proceeded in, then there still exists the same but no greater
hardship on suitors than yet exists in several States, which
have never, up to this day, in derogation of the common
law, enacted statutes giving an action for damages where
death results from a tort.
We insist, therefore, that the courts of common law have
only the right to exercise a concurrent jurisdiction over such
subjects of admiralty cognizance as they under the Constitution and the acts of Congress are permitted to deal with
at all.* With respect to subjects of recognized admiralty
cognizance at the time of the passage of the act of 1789, the
State legislatures could provide common-law remedies, and
may by subsequent legislation enlarge or modify these remedies: preserving always the distinctive characteristics of common law procedure. But the case is different with respect to
subjects not of recognized admiralty cognizance. And as
yet no civil remedy to next of kin for damages consequent
on an injury resulting in the loss of life of their relative is
as yet known to the admiralty, Congress not yet having
given any.
Mr. W. P. Sheffield, contra:
The words "extend to" in the provision of the Federal
* New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 Howard, 390;
The Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wallace, 668.

Dec. 1872.]

STEAMBOAT

COMPANY V.

CHASE.

527

Argument for the defendant in error.

Constitution, that the judicial power shall extend to all cases
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, do not imply that
the nation shall exhaust this jurisdiction.
In addition, the saving clause of the 9th section of the
Judiciary Act "saves to suitors in all cases the right of a commonlaw remedy, when the common law is competent to give it." Yet
"the clause was inserted," says this court,* "probably from
abundant caution, lest the exclusive terms in which the
power is confirmed in the District Court might be deemed
to have taken away the concurrent remedy which had before
existed." The same right would have existed had no such
clause been inserted. Indeed, the State must have the same
right to exercise the reserved powers over her waters, to the
extent that they are reserved, as she has to exercise the reserved powers of government over the land, and to have the
same power to provide a remedy for injuries committed on
tide-waters, within her limits, that she has to punish the like
injuries committed on land by railroad companies who carry
the mails over post routes; and have the same right to exercise a police authority generally to protect her citizens
upon the water, as she has to exercise this authority to protect them upon land. The fact that the Federal government
has the power to carry out the objects of the Federal government over water or land, does not abrogate the power of
a State to protect her citizens. If indeed a State should
legislate so as to obstruct the Federal authorities in attaining the ends for which the Federal government was created,
such legislation would be void. So if this injury had been
inflicted upon the high seas, or beyond the State jurisdiction, the State statute would not have applied to it. The
jurisdiction of the States to enact laws punishing offences
committed within the counties of States, upon waters, has
been affirmed in numerous cases in this court.t
The Federalist (No. 45) says, "The powers reserved to the
several States will extend to all objects which in the ordi* New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 Howard, 390.
t United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheaton, 386; Smith v. M1aryland, 18 Howard, 71; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 195.

STEAMBOAT

COMPANY V.

CHASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply.

nary course of affairs concern the lives, liberties, and properties of the people, and the internal order, improvement,
and prosperity of the State." The. object of Rhode Island
inpassing this statute plainly was but to protect the lives of
her citizens. It relates exclusively to persons, and does not
apply to things which are generally the subject of admiralty
jurisdiction. As it applies to the case at bar, it in no way
interferes with any exercised power of the Federal government, to regulate commerce between the States or with
foreign nations. It provides that the right of action which
Cook would have had against the steamboat company, had
they not killed him, should survive to his administrator, and
provides nothing more. The effect of it is simply to take
from careless persons that immunity from punishment which
the common law tolerates, if carelessness destroys its victims. If Cook bad been injured, no matter how much, solong as he had not been killed, no question would have been
made here, that an action at common law could have been
maintained by him under a State statute, for then the remedy
at common law and the common-law remedy would have
coincided. The statute providing that the right of action
with the common-law remedy shall survive, cannot change
the jurisdiction.
Reply: The grant of jurisdiction by the Constitution tothe Federal courts of "all cases of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction," and the broad declaration by the act of 1789,
that such jurisdiction is "exclusive" of all State and Federal
courts of common law, is poorly satisfied by the declaration
that all that is thus exclusively vested is a right to proceed
in rem, and that the common-law courts are only prohibited
from making an inanimate object a defendant. If a form of
procedure respecting a subject, and not the subject itself, is
all that distinguishes the exclusive jurisdiction of courts of
admiralty from courts of common law, then much learning
and zeal in argument have been wasted before this court and
by the bench, in the effbrt to define and settle the limits of
these two ancient conflicting jurisdictions.

Dec. 1872.]

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. CHASE.

529

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Remedies for marine torts, it is conceded, may be prosecuted in the admiralty courts, even though the wrongful act
was committed on navigable waters within the body of a
county, as the exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction is conferred upon the
District Courts by the ninth section of the Judiciary Act.
Repeated attempts were made in our early judicial history
to induce the court to hold otherwise, but the court refusec\
to adopt any other theory, and held that the entire admiraltj
power of the Constitution was lodged in the Federal courts;
that Congress intended by the ninth section of the Judiciar:y
Act to invest the District Courts with that entire power, as
courts of original jurisdiction, employing the phrase "ex..
elusive original cognizance" to express that purpose, and
that it was intended that the power should be exclusive of
the State courts as well as the other Federal courts.
Common carriers of passengers, whether by railroad or
steamboat, in case the life of a passenger in their care is lost,
or the life of any person crossing upon a public, highway is
lost in that State, by reason of the negligence or carelessness
of such common carrier, or by the unfitness, negligence, or
carelessness of their servants or agents, are made liable by
the statute law of the State to damages for the injury caused
by the loss of the life of such person, to be recovered by
action on the case for the benefit of the husband or widow
and next of kin of the deceased person.*
Provision is also made by another section of the same
statute that in all cases in which the death of any person
ensues from injury inflicted by the wrongful act of another,
and in which an action for damages might have been maintained at the common law had death not ensued, the person
inflicting such injury shall be liable to an action for damages
for the injury caused by the death of such person, to be recovered by an action on the case for the use of his or her
husband, widow, children, or next of kin.
* Revised Statutes, 427.

VOL. XVI.

34

530

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. CHASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Undisputed as the facts are in this case it is not necessary
to refer to them with much particularity. By the pleadings
it appears that the defendants are common carriers of passengers over the waters of the Narraganset Bay, one of the
public highways within the State, between the ports of Newport and Providence in the same State, and that the plaintiff
is the administrator of the estate of George Cook, late of
Portsmouth in that State, deceased. He was passing over
the waters of the bay in a sailboat and lost his life on the
29th of June, 1869, by means of a collision between the
steamboat of the defendants and the sailboat in which he
was passing, and which was caused, as the plaintiff alleges,
while the decedent was in the exercise of due care and
wholly through the unfitness, negligence, and carelessness
of the master of the steamboat. Damages are claimed by
the plaintiff for the benefit of the widow and children of
the deceased. Judgment was rendered for the plaintiff in
the Supreme Court of the State in the sum of $12,000; and
the defendants sued out a writ of error and removed the
cause into this court.
Two errors are assigned: (1.) That the common-law courts
cannot exercise jurisdiction and give a remedy for a consequential injury, growing out of a marine tort, where no
remedy for such an injury exists in the admiralty courts.
(2.) That a suitor cannot have a remedy in such a case in a
common-law court, even if the admiralty courts have jurisdiction, as the right of action was created by a State statute
enacted subsequent to the passage of the Judiciary Act.
Where no remedy exists for an injury in the admiralty
courts the fact that such courts exist and exercise jurisdiction in other causes of action leaves the State courts as free
to exercise jurisdiction in respect to an injury not cognizable
in the admiralty as if the admiralty courts were unknown
to the Constitution and had no existence in our jurisprudence. Jurisdiction to enforce maritime liens by proceedings in rem is exclusive in the admiralty courts. State courts,
therefore, are incompetent to afford a remedy in such a case,
as they do not possess the power to issue the appropriate

Dec. 1872.]

STEAMBOAT

COMPANY V.

CHASE.

Opinion of the court.

process to enforce the lien and give effect to the proceeding.
Vested exclusively as such power is in the admiralty courts,
it is settled law that the State legislatures cannot authorize
State courts to exercise jurisdiction in such a case by a proceeding in ren.*
Exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction was conferred upon the District Courts by the ninth section of the Judiciary Act, including all seizures under the laws of impost, navigation, or
trade of the United States, where the seizures are made on
waters which are navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or
more tons burden, within their respective districts as well 's
upon the high seas.t
Admiralty jurisdiction was conferred upon the United
States by the Constitution, and inasmuch as the power conferred extends to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, it is clear and undeniable that a remedy for a marine
tort may be sought in the adiniralty courts, and if the injured party had survived no doubt is entertained that he
might have sought redress for his injuries in the proper admiralty court, wholly irrespective of theState statute enacting the remedy there given and prescribing the form of
action and the measure of damages, as the wrongful act was
committed on navigable waters within the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction conferred'upon such courts by the
Constitution and the laws of Congress.1
Doubts, however, may arise whether the action survives
in the admiralty, and if not, whether a State statute can be
regarded as applicable in such a case to authorize the legal
representatives of the deceased to maintain such an action
for the benefit of the widow and children of the deceased.
Undoubtedly the general rule is that State laws cannot extend or restrict the jurisdiction of the admiralty courts, but
* The Moses Taylor, 4 Wallace, 411; The Hine, 4 Id. 555; The Belfast,'
I Id. 642.
t United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheaton, 387.
J The Commerce, 1 Black, 578; The Belfast, 7 Wallace, 640; 2 Story on

the Constitution,

1669; The Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, 452.

STEAMBOA" COMPANY V. CHASE.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

it is suggested that the action may be maintained in this
case, without any departure from that principle, as the only
practical effect allowed to the State statute is to take the
case out of the operation of the common-law maxim that
personal actions die with the person. Most of the commonlaw cases deny that the action is maintainable in the name
of the legal representatives, and several text writers have
expressed the same opinion.* Judge Sprague also applied
the same rule in the case of Crapo v. Allen,t but in a later
casel he left the question open, with the remark that it cannot be regarded as settled law that an action cannot be maintained in such a case.
Statutes have been passed in many of the States giving a
remedy in such cases, and in the case of Hiner v. The Sea
Gull,ยง the Chief Justice held in a case where the suit was.
brought by the husband to recover damages to himself for
the death of his wife, occasioned by the fault of the defendant, that the suit was maintainable.1I
Difficulties, it must be conceded, will attend the solution
of the question, but it is not necessary to decide it in the
present case, as the jurisdiction of the State court may be
supported, whether such a suit may or may not be maintained in the admiralty courts.
Sufficient has already been remarked to show that the
State courts have jurisdiction if the admiralty courts have
no jurisdiction, and a few observations will serve to show
that the jurisdiction of the State courts is equally undeniable
if it is determined that the case is within the jurisdiction of
the admiralty courts. Much discussion of that topic cannot
be necessary, as several decisions of this court have established that rule as applicable in all cases where the action in
the State court is in form a common-law action against the
* Carey v. Railroad Co., 1 Cushing, 475; Baker v. Bolton et al., 1 Campbell, 493; Dunlap's Practice, 87; Hall's Admiralty Practice, 22; 2 Parsons
on Shipping, 351; Benedict's Admiralty, 2d ed., 309.
: Cutting v. Seabury, 1 Sprague, 522.
t 1 Sprague, 184.
2 Law Times, 15.
U Ford v. Monroe, 20 Wendell, 210; James v. Christy, 18 Missouri, 162.

Dec.

1872.]

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. CHASE.

583

Opinion of the court.

person, without any of the ingredients of a proceeding in
rem to enforce a maritime lien. Where the suit is in rem
against the thing, the original jurisdiction is exclusive in the
District Courts, as provided in the ninth section of the Judiciary Act; but when the suit is in personam against the
owner, the party seeking redress may proceed by libel in
the District Court, or he may, at his election, proceed in an
action at law, either in the Circuit Court if he and the defendant are citizens of different States, or in a State court
as in other cases of actions cognizable in the State and Federal courts exercising jurisdiction in common-law cases, as
provided in the eleventh section of 'the Judiciary Act.* He
may have an action at law, in the case supposed, either in
the Circuit Court or in a State court, because the common
law in such a case is competent to give him a remedy, and
wherever the common law in such a case is competent to
give a party a remedy, the right to such a remedy is reserved and secured to suitors by the saving clause contained
in the ninth section of the Judiciary Act.t
Suitors may have a common-law remedy in all cases where
the common law is competent to give it, but the defendants
insist that a suitor cannot have redress in a common-law
court in such a case, even if the admiralty courts have jurisdiction, as the right of action was created by a State statute
-enacted subsequent to the passage of the Judiciary Act.
Attempt is made to deny the right to such a remedy in
chis case, upon the ground that the operation. of the saving
clause must be limited to such causes of action as were
known to the common law at the time of the passage of the
Judiciary Act, and the argument is that the cause of action
alleged was not known to the common law at that period,
which cannot be admitted, as actions to recover damages for
-ersonal injuries prosecuted in the name of the injured party
were well known, even in the early history of the common
law. Such actions, it must be admitted, did not ordinarily
* Leon v. Galceran, 11 Wallace, 188.

t 1 Stat. at Large, 76; The Belfast, 7 Wallace, 644; The Moses Taylor,
4 Id. 411; The Hint, 4 1& 555.

STEAMBOAT

COMPANY

V. CHASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

survive, but nearly all the States have passed laws to prevent such a failure of justice, and the validity of such laws
has never been much questioned.*
Questions of the kind cannot arise in suits in rem to enforce maritime liens, as the common law is not competent
to give such a remedy, and the jurisdiction of the admiralty
courts in such cases is exclusive. Such a question can only
arise in personal suits where the remedy, in the two jurisdictions, is without any substantial difference. Examined
carefully it is evident that Congress intended by that provision to allow the party to seek redress in the admiralty if
he saw fit to do so, but not to make it compulsory in any
case where the common law is competent to give him a
remedy. Properly construed a party under that provision
may proceed in rem in the admiralty, if a maritime lien
arises, or he may bring a suit in. personam in the same jurisdiction, or he may elect not to go into admiralty at all, and
may resort to his common-law remedy in the State courts, or
in the Circuit Courts of the United States if he can make
proper parties to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction of his
case.t
Different systems of pleading and modes of proceeding,
and different rules of evidence prevail in the two jurisdictions, but whether the party elects to go into one or the
other, he must conform to the system of pleading and to the
rules of practice, and of evidence, which prevail in the
chosen forum. State statutes, if applicable to the case, constitute the rules of decision in common-law actions, in the
Circuit Courts as well as in the State courts, but the rules of
pleading, practice, and of evidence in the admiralty courts
are regulated by the admiralty law as ultimately expounded
by the decisions of this court. State legislatures may regulate the practice, proceedings, and rules of evidence in their
own courts, and those rules, under the 84th section of the
Judiciary Act, become, in suits at common law, the rules of
decision, where they apply, in the Circuit Courts.
* Railroad v. Barron, 5 Wallace, 90.

t Leon v. Galceran, 11 Id. 188.

Dec. 1872.]

BEALL V. NEW MEXICO.
Statement of the case.

All these are familiar principles, and they are sufficient to
dispose of the case and to show that there is no error in the
record.

recor.

. -

JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BEALL v. N1w MEXICO.
1. A statute authorizing judgment against the sureties of an appeal bond,
as well as against the appellants, in case of affirmance, is not unconstitutional.
2. A Territorial legislature, having by its organic act power over all rightful subjects of legislation, is competent to pass such an act.
8. An administrator de bonisnzon cannot sue the former administrator or his
representatives for a devastavit, or for delinquencies in office; nor can
he maintain an action on- the former administrator's bond for such
cause. The former administrator, or his representatives, are liable
directly to creditors and next of kin. The administrator de bonis nonz
has to do only with the goods of the intestate unadministered. If any
such remain in the hands of the discharged administrator or his representa'tives, in specie, he may sue for them either directly or on the
bond.
4. Regularly, a decree of the probate court against the administrator for an
amount due, and an order for leave to prosecute his bond, are prerequisites to the maintenance of a suit thereon.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of New
Mexico; the case being thus:
One Hinckley died at Santa Fe, in the Territory of New
Mexico, in October, 1866. At the time of his death he was
a member of a mercantile copartnership, consisting of himself and two persons named Blake and Wardwell, and they
carried on business at Fort Craig and other places in the
Territoi y of New Mexico.
In November, 1866, one BeaU was appointed "administrator dud executor of the estate of Hinckley, according to
the last will of the deceased," and upon such appointment
gave a bond with himself as principal and one Staab and
others as sureties, conditioned in the ordinary form:
"To account for, pay, and turn over all the moneys and property of the said estate to the legal heirs of the said deceased,

