196

KO0NTZ V. NORTHERN BANK.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

KOONTZ V. NORTHERN BANK.
1. A purchaser under a deed from a receiver is not bound to examine all
the proceedings in the case in which the receiver is appointed. It is
sufficient for him to see that there is a suit in equity, or was one, in
which the court appointed a receiver of property; that such receiver
was authorized by the court to sell the property; that a sale was made
under such authority; that the sale was confirmed by the court, and
that the deed accurately recites the property or interest thus sold. If
the title of the property was vested in the receiver by order of the court,
it in that case passes to the purchaser. He is not bound to inquire
whether any errors intervened in the action of the court or irregularities were committed by the receiver in the sale.
2. If the court is deceived by the report of a receiver, or master, as to the
conditions upon which property is sold under its order, and the purchaser participates in the deception, the court can, at any time before
the rights of third parties have intervened, set the whole proceedings,
including the deed, aside. But after the rights of such third parties
have intervened, its authority in that respect can only he exercised consistently with protection to those rights.
3. If the receiver omit to perform his whole duty, by which the parties are
injured, or commit any fraud upon the court, and the rights of third
parties have so far intervened as to prevent the court from setting the
proceedings aside, the injured parties must seek their remedy personally
against that officer, or on his official bond.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Mississippi; the case being thus:
The Commercial Bank of Natchez owning certain property, and among it a dwelling attached to its banking-house,
its property was placed, on an application for a forfeiture of
its charter, in the hands of one Robertson as trustee. Several of the stockholders, represented by a certain Bacon,
being dissatisfied with what was thus done, filed a bill in
the court below against this Robertson, and all the property
was taken from him and put into the hands of one Ferguson,
as receiver. Hereupon, in November, 1857, the receiver was
authorized by the court to sell the lands or any part of them
upon such terms as he may deem best for the interest of all parties,
provided that he shall not sell any of said lands upon a longer
credit than one, two, and three years from the time of sale.
The order authorizing the sale adding:

Dec. 1872.]

V. NORTHERN BANK.
KOONTZ
2
Statement of the case.

"In all cases he is to retain a lien or take a deed of trust on the
lands sold."
Oil the 12th of March, 1860, the receiver sold the dwelling attached to the bank to one Gustavus Calhoun, and on
the same day executed to him a conveyance of the premises
sold, reciting in the conveyance that he xecuted it as receiver, and "for and in consideration of the sum of nine
thousand and five hundred dollars, to him in hand paid by
the said Gustavus Calhoun, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged." It contained a covenant of warranty against
all persons claiming through the receiver. The deed was
duly recorded within five days after the sale, and Calhoun
entered into and kept possession under it.
After the receiver had thus executed his conveyance-that
is to say, on the 19th of May, 1860-the receiver reported
that he had "sold the dwelling attached to the bankinghouse in Natchez for $9600, and prayed that the same may
be confirmed." He also referred to certain sales of land in
Bolivar County, in 1858, in which the purchasers had allowed the lands to be sold for taxes. The court ordered
that this report, and a report made by a commissioner in
the case, be referred to the master in chancery "to examine
ito and report upon the sufficiency and correctness of said
reports."
The master, in conformity to this order, made his report
i n 29th May, 1860. He stated that he had had the reports
ander consideration and found them correct, and recommended their confirmation. The last portion of the report
of Ferguson, the receiver, respecting the redemption of
lands in Bolivar County, he referred to the court for consideration.
At the same term, 1860, the court ordered that the report
of the master in chalicery be in all things confirmed, reserving
for consideration until the next term the matter referring to
the lands in Bolivar County.
The reader will have observed that neither in the master's
report of sale nor anywhere else in these proceedings is the
name of the person mentioned to whom the sale was made,

KOONTZ V. NORTHERN BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

nor the terms on which it was made, as whether for cash or
on credit. And, in point of fact, Calhoun did not pay any
cash, but, on the contrary, gave his promissory note to the
receiver, Ferguson, for the price.
In this state of things, and Calhoun being in possession of
the property thus' bought by him, and occupying it as his
dwelling, his son-in-law, one Blackburn, was desirous of
raising money to carry on the business of planting, in which
he was engaged on a plantation owned by Calhoun, his
father-in-law. A firm in New Orleans, Given, Watts & Co.,
agreed to furnish it to him upon his own notes, provided
these were secured by a mortgage of real estate of Calhoun.
Accordingly, on the 22d of January, 1867, Blackburn gave
the firm his notes (three notes for $4000 each, falling due
respectively in October, November, and December, 1867),
and Calhoun and wife executed, on the same day, a mortgage of the property bought, and occupied at the time as
above mentioned. Prior to its execution, Given, Watts &
Co., to assure themselves of the validity of Calhoun's title,
caused an inquiry to be instituted, and received from the
clerk of the court a certificate that there were no incumbrances. Given, Watts & Co. sold one of these notes to the
Northern Bank of Kentucky, and, becoming bankrupt, the
other two passed to their assignees in bankruptcy.
Calhoun became insolvent, and one Koontz, who had succeeded Ferguson as receiver of the Commercial Bank of
Natchez, finding that Calhoun had never paid his note for
$9500, now proposed to him to cancel the conveyance that
had been made to him. Calhoun agreed to do this, and
thereupon made a deed of the premises to Koontz; after
which Koontz applied to the court on an ex parte proceeding
and obtained an order reciting the invalidity of the sale by
Ferguson to Calhoun and cancelling the same.
In this state of things the Northern Bank of Kentucky
and the assignees of Given, Watts & Co. filed a bill of foreclosure in the court below, againist Koontz and also against
Calhoun and wife, praying a foreclosure of the mortgage
and payment of the three notes, or of what was due on them.

Dec. 1872.]

KOONTZ V. NORTHERN BANK.
Argument for the receiver.

The court, finding the amounts due the complainants respectively, decreed a foreclosure nisi, and ordered Koontz
to hold the property subject to payment of the amounts thus
found, and enjoined him from setting up any title under the
conveyance made to Koontz adverse to the rights of the
complainants under the mortgage. From this decree Koontz
appealed.
Mr. W. W. Boyce (a brief of Mr. W. P. -Harrisbeing filed),
for the appellant:
1. A report of a sale without the name of the purchaser,
or the terms of sale (or whether for cash or credit), is in
chancery practice a report fatally defective; in other words,
no report. If there was no report there was nothing on
which a confirmation could. act; and, therefore, no confirmation. The whole matter remained in the control of the
court, and it properly cancelled Ferguson's deed.
2. The deed was executed and delivered before there was
any report of a sale, a wholly irregular proceeding. A deed
should have been returned with a report of the sale, to be
delivered when the sale was confirmed and the purchasemoney paid.
3. The execution of the deed to Calhoun was void for
want of authority to execute it, unless there was taken contemporaneously with it "a lien or deed of trust." The authority to sell existed only as a means to an end; the end
being to take a lien or deed of trust.
These difficulties are obvious and conclusive of the case,
unless in some way avoided. The argument will be that
Given, Watts & Co. were bondfide purchasers without notice,
and not affected by errors of the court or receiver.
But were they without notice? The deed by which Calhoun obtained a color of title, was of record for purposes of
notice. It disclosed on its face that Calhoun's purchase was
not from a party holding title, but from an officer of court
acting under orders, and by which a report and confirmation
of the sale was requisite. This order set forth the terms of
sale. The deed led the purchaser to the record of the oase

200

KOONTZ V. NORTHERN BANK.

LSup. CL

Opinion of the court.

of Bacon et al. v. .obertson, and from that he saw an irregufar proceeding, a sale and deed delivered long before there
was any report of the sale. He saw a report which did not
give the name of the purchaser, or the terms of the sale, or
any direct order of confirmation. He knew that sales on
credit were incomplete until payment. All this put him
upon inquiry, and is constructive notice of the actual facts.
He did not inquire of Calhoun whether he paid the purchase-money. The condition of the record was such that
it put on him as a prudent man the duty of further investigation.

Mr. P. Phillips (a brief of Messrs. NLugent and Yerger being
filed), contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
There is only one question in this case which we deem it
important to consider, and that is, whether the deed of the
receiver, in the suit of Bacon and others v. Robertson, passed
to Calhoun a good title to the property mortgaged by him;
and upon this question we have no doubt.
The suit of Bacon and others v. Robertson related to the
effects of the Commercial Bank of Natchez in the hands of
the defendant, who had been appointed trustee under a proceeding for the forfeiture of the charter of the bank, and
presented a case in which it was eminently proper that a
receiver should be appointed of the effects. No question
was made as to the legality or propriety of the appointment.
The premises in question, consisting of a house and lot in
Natchez, constituted a portion of these effects. The order
of the court, entered at its November Term in 1857, empowered the receiver to sell the lands, or any part of them, belonging to the bank, upon such terms as he might deem best
for the interest of all parties, provided he should not sell
any of the lands on a longer credit than one, two, or three
years; and in all cases should retain a lien or take a deed
of trust on the lands. Under the authority thus conferred,
the receiver sold the property in controversy in March, 1860,
to Calhoun, for the sum of nine thousand and nine hundred

Dec. 1872.]

D OONTZ
.
V.

NORTHERN BANK.

Opinion of the court.

dollars, and executed and delivered to him a deed of the
premises, reciting that it was made by the grantor, as re,ceiver, and in consideration of the sum specified, the receipt
of which it acknowledged. Soon afterwards the deed was
placed on the records of the county.
In May, following, the receiver reported to the court that
he had sold the premises for the consideration stated, and
prayed that the sale might be confirmed. The court referred
the report to a master to examine into its sufficiency and
correctness. The master reported that it was correct, and
recommended its confirmation. The court thereupon ordered that the master's report be in all things confirmed.
This confirmation carried with it the confirmation of the
sale into which the master was required to examine.
Soon afterwards Calhoun went into possession of the
premises purchased under the deed from the receiver, and
remained in possession in person, or by his tenants, up to
the period when the mortgage in suit was executed, in January, 1867, and until his surrender to Koontz, the present
receiver.
There was undoubtedly an irregularity committed by the
receiver in executing his conveyance before the sale was
confirmed by the court, and until then the contract of purchase was not binding upon that officer. But his conveyance was not on that account void; it was only voidable.
If the deed had been executed after the confirmation, it
would have taken effect by relation as of the day of the
sale.* If the confirmation had been denied, the deed, resting upon the sale, would have become inoperative. But the
confirmation having been made, all objection to the time at
which the deed was executed is removed.
The authority conferred by the court upon the receiver to
sell, carried with it authority to give to the purchaser evidence of a transfer of title. And that the court intended he
should exercise this implied authority, by executing deeds
where land was sold, is evident from the requirement that
* Fuller v. Van Geesen, 4 Hill, 171, and cases there cited:

KOONTZ v. NORTHERN BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

he should, in case of sale on credit, retain a lien or take a
deed of trust on the lands from the purchaser.
The report of the receiver does not state in terms that the
sale to Calhoun was made in cash; it only discloses the fact
that a sale was made, and specifies the amount of the purchase-money. But the only inference which the court could
reasonably draw from the language, in absence of any statement that the sale was on credit, was undoubtedly that it
was a cash sale. It is clear that the court so understood the
transaction. The receiver so treated it by the immediate
execution and delivery of a deed reciting the payment of
the stipulated consideration, and omitting to take in return
any trust-deed from the purchaser.
If the thct were otherwise, and the court was deceived by
the report of the receiver or master, and the purchaser participated in creating the deception, it could, undoubtedly, at
any time before the rights of innocent purchasers had intevened, have set the whole proceedings, including the deed,
aside. But after the rights of such third parties had intervened, its authority in that respect could only be exercised
consistently with protection to those rights.
A purchaser under a deed from a receiver is not bound to
examine all the proceedings in the case in which the receiver
is appointed. It is sufficient for him to see that there is a
suit in equity, or was one, in which the court appointed a
receiver of property; that such receiver was authorized by
the court to sell the property; that a sale was made under
such authority; that the sale was confirmed by the court,
and that the deed accurately recites the property or interest
thus sold. If the title of the property was vested in the receiver by order of the court, it would in that case pass to the
purchaser. He is not bound to inquire whether any errors
intervened in the action of the court, or irregularities were
committed by the receiver in the sale, any more than a purchaser under execution upon a judgment is bound to look
into the errors and irregularities of a court oni the trial of
the case, or of the officer in enforcing its process.
If the receiver in the one case, or the sheriff in the other,

Dec. 1872.]

DAVIs v. GRAY.
Syllabus.

omit to perform his wfiole duty, by which the parties are
injured, or commit any fraud upon the court, and the rights
of third parties have so far intervened as to prevent the
court from setting the proceedings aside, the injured parties
must seek their remedy personally against those officers, or
on their official bonds. The interest of parties in the controversy will generally induce such attention to the proceedings as to prevent great irregularities from occurring, without being brought to the notice of the court.
The decree of the court is
APFIRMED.

DAVIS v. GRAY.
1 In this case-where a person who had been appointed receiver of a railroad, to which a large grant of lands had been made by a State, was
seeking to enjoin the officers of the State which had declared the lands
forfeited, from granting them to other persons-the court states at
large what is the office and what are the duties of a receiver, giving
to them a liberal interpretation in aid of the jurisdiction of the court.
It says that in the progress and growth of equity jurisdiction it has
become usual to clothe them with much larger powers than were formerly conferred; that in some of the States they are by statute charged
with the duty of settling the affairs of certain corporations when insolvent, and are authorized expressly to sue in their own names; and that
the court sees no reason why a court of equity, in the exercise of its undoubted authority, may not accomplish all the best results intended to
be secured by such legislation, without its aid.
2. The doctrines of Osborne v. The Bank of the United States affirmed; and
the principles re-declared.
(a.) That a Circuit Court of the 'nited States, in a proper case in
equity, may enjoin a State officer from executing a State law in conflict
with the Constitution or a statute of the United States, when such execution will violate the rights of the complainant.
(b.) That where the State is concerned the State should be made a
party, if it can be done. That it cunot be done is a sufficient reason
for the omission to do it, and the case may proceed to decree against her
officers in all respects as if she were a party to the record.
(c.) That in deciding who are parties to the suit the court will not
look beyond the record. That making a State officer a party does not
make the State a party, although her law may prompt his action, and

