HUMPHREY V. PEGUES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

assessed has been delivered to him as provided in section
ten. It is made to appear to us in a very satisfactory manner that such has been the unvarying rule of that office
since the act went into effect, and while we do not hold such
ruling as in general obligatory upon us, we are content to
adopt it in this case for the reason already mentioned, as
well as for its obvious fairness to the government and to the
distiller.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HUMPHREY V. PEGUES.
An act of assembly of a State passed in 1851 to incorporate a railroad company chartered a corporation, but did not exempt its property from taxation. An act passed in 1855 to amend its charterdid exempt it. In
1863 an act was passed conferring on a company which had been incorporated in 1849 to build a railroad, but which had never yet found inducements sufficient to make it build the road, all the rights, powers,
and privileges "granted by the charter" of the first-named road. Held:
863
r
1st. That the property of the second road was made, by the act of 1
exempt from taxation.
2d. That the legislature could not repeal the act of 1863 so as to subject it,
to taxation.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of South Carolina; the case being thus:
On the 16th of December, 1851, the legislature of South
Carolina, by "an act to incorporate the Northeastern Railroad Company," chartered the corporation now known by
that name. This act contained no exemption of the company's property from taxation, and by its terms was to continue in force for fifty years from the ratification thereof.
On the 19th of December, 1855, the same legislature
passed another act, entitled "An act to amend the charter of
the Northeastern Railroad Company, and for other purposes." This act enacted:
"SECTION

1. That the stock of the Northeastern IRailroad

Dec. 1872.]

D UMPHREY V. PEGUES.
Statement of the case.

Company and the real estate that it now owns, or may here2fter acquire, which is connected with or subservient to the
works, authorized in the charter of the said company, shall be,
and the same is hereby, exempted from all taxation during the continuance of the present charter of the said company."
Prior to the date of either of these acts, that is to say, on
the 19th of December, 1849, the same legislature had, -by an
act entitled "An act to charter the Cheraw and Darlington
Railroad Company," incorporated the company of that
name. This act, after authorizing the formation of the
company and the raising of the stock, provided thus:
"SECTION 5. That for the purpose of organizing andforming this
company . . . all the powers, rights, and privileges granted by
the charter of the Wilmington and Manchester Railroad Company
to that company shall be and are hereby granted to the Cheraw
and Darlington Railroad Company," &c.
The powers, rights, and privileges here referred to as
granted by the charter of the Wilmington and Manchester
Railroad Company, whose name is above italicized, to that
company, did not include any exemption of its property
from taxation.
The Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Company thus, as
above mentioned, incorporated in 1849, had not up to the
17th of December, 1863, built its road; and on the day and
.ear last mentioned the game legislature amended its charter
by the passage of the act which thus enacted:
"SECTION 1. That section 5 of an act entitled IAn act to charter the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Company,' ratified the
19th day of December, A.D. 1849, be amended so ag to read as
follows, to wit:
"That all the powers, rights, and privileges granted by the charter of the
INortheastern Railroad Company are hereby granted to the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Company, and subject to the conditions therein contained."

Soon after this amendatory act of 1863 was passed, the
Cjheraw and Darlington Railroad, which had been lying dor.
mant since 1849, was built and put in operation.
These different enactments above mentioned being in

HUMPHREY V. PEGUES.

[Slip. CtL

Argument for the appellants.

force, the State officers of counties in South Carolina where
the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad was situate, acting
under the authority of the legislature of the State, imposed
certain taxes on the stock and property of that company, and
were proceeding to enforce payment of them, when one Pegues, a stockholder in Mississippi, filed a bill in the court
below praying an injunction to restrain the collection. The
court granted the injunction, and from this, its action, the
county officers appealed. The question was whether (as Pegues, the complainant, contended) the act of December 19th,
1855, "to amend the charter of the Northeastern Railroad
Company," &c., and exempting its property from taxation,
formed a part of its charter when, oi the 17th of December,
1863, the privileges granted to that company were conferred
on the Cheraw and Darlington company; or whether (as
the State of South Carolina contended) the privileges thus
conferred were limited to those granted to the Northeastern
company by its original charter or act of incorporation,
passed in 1851, by which no exemption from taxation was
conferred.
Mr. D. H. Chamberlain,for the State officers, appellants, contended that an exemption from taxation was never to be
implied; that nothing less than a clear intention on the part
of the legislature-an intention expressed in terms which
admit no other reasonable construction-would suffice to
sustain a privilege so valuable and so far-reaching; that as
was shown by the words-" an act to amend the charter of
the Northeastern Company"-in the amendatory act of
1855, it was the act of 1851 incorporating the company
which constituted its charter; and that when the act of 1863
gave to the Cheraw and IDarlington Railroad all the powers,
rights, and privileges granted by the charter of the Northeastern Railroad Company, it gave it only the powers, rights,
and privileges granted by that act of 1851.
In addition to this, that the original grant of powers,
rights, and privileges made to the Cheraw and IDarlington
road by the section 5 of the act of December 19th, 1849, to

Dec. 1872.]

D

UMPHREY V. PEGUES.
Opinion of the court.

charter that road, was "for the purpose of organizing and
forming that company," and that when this act was amended
by substituting the new words contained in the amendatory
act of the 17th of December, 1868, granting other privileges
-the road not yet being so much as undertaken-the original purpose "of organizing and forming the company" still
remained; and that it was a construction such as, in regard
to a law exempting property from taxation, was not to be
made, that would extend the interpretation so much further,
as the complainant sought to do.
The learned counsel also contended that if this view were
not sound, and if the property of the Cheraw and Darlington
Railroad were by the act of 1863 exempted, yet the right
to repeal or amend any previously existing exemption from
taxation was inherent and inextinguishable in the State;
that the power of taxation was one of the highest and most
vitally necessary powers of sovereignty, and that if one legislature could take it from all subsequent legislatures, government could not go on.
Mr. T. G. Barker, contra.
Mr. Justi ce HUNT (having quoted the several statutes
above given) delivered the opinion of the court.
The stockholders of the Cheraw and Darlington Company
contend that the act of the 19th of December, 1855, entitled
"An act to amend the charter of the Northeastern Railroad
Company," &c., formed a part of the charter of the Northeastern Company in 1863, when the privileges conferred
upon that company were granted to the Cheraw and Darlington Company.
The State contends that the privileges thus granted were
limited to those conferred upon the Northeastern by its
original charter or act of incorporation, passed in 1851.
All the- "privileges," as well as powers and'rights of the
prior company, were granted to the latter. A more important or more comprehensive privilege than a perpetual
immunity from taxation can scarcely be imagined. It con-

HUMPHREY v. PEGUES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tains the essential idea of a peculiar benefit or advantage,
of a special exemption from a burden falling upon others.
There is nothing in the terms of the statute of 1863 to indicate that the legislature intended to limit the privileges
conferred upon the Cheraw Company to those granted to
the Northeastern Company by its original act of incorporation, and to exclude the important privileges contained in
the amending act. The charter of the Northeastern Company, as it existed in 1863, was based upon the two acts of
the legislature, passed in 1851 and 1855, respectively. The
first act was entitled an "act to incorporate" the Northeastern Company. The latter act was entitled "an act to
amend the charter of the Northeastern Company." A charter, in the sense here used, is an instrument or authority
from the sovereign power, bestowing rights or privileges;
as it is briefly expressed, it is an act of incorporation. Such
was the obvious understanding of the word by the legislature
of South Carolina. The first act was expressed as creating
the incorporation of the company; the second, using a synonymous expression, purported to amend its charter. The
words charter and act of incorporation were used convertibly.
Whether it be said that the rights and'privileges conferred
upon the Northeastern, as they stood in 1863, existed in its
charter or were derived from its incorporation amounts to
the same thing. We have no doubt that all of them were
intended to be granted to the Cheraw Company by the act
of that year. The charter or incorporation of 1851 had been
amended in 1855, and by an act which purported in its title
not to create an original authority, but by amending the
original charter to bestow additional powers upon the company. After the passage of the amended act, the Northeastern was, in law, as if it had originally been chartered,
with all the rights, powers, and privileges conferred upon it
by the act of 1855. Such was the legal effect of the amendment; and such, no doubt, was the understanding of its
effect by the legislature of South Carolina, when, in 1863,
they conferred all its powers and privileges upon the Cheraw
Company. The case shows that from 1849 to 1863 no suf-

Dec. 1872.]

HUMPHREY V.

PEGUES.

Opinion of the court.

ficient inducements had been found to procure the building
of the Cheraw road. We are not advised what other powers
and privileges were then and there conferred upon it in
addition to the exemption we are considering. But this exemption was conferred; an exemption, that must have been
understood by the least reflecting person as being of immense value to all concerned in the road. The road was
soon afterwards built, and has since then been and now is
in operation. These facts serve to show-first, that there
was, in this instance, the consideration that at any time
exists for the granting by the legislature of such privilege
to aid the acceptance of the same and the building of the
road; and, secondly, the intention of the legislature, by
omitting a reference to the original act of incorporation, to
grant all the powers and privileges that had been at any
time conferred upon the N ortheastern Company.
Another question is raised, to wit: That a legislature does
not possess the power to grant to a corporation a perpetual
immunity from taxation. It is said that the power of taxation is among the highest powers of a sovereign State; that
its exercise is a political necessity, without which the State
must cease to exist, and that it is not competent for one
legislature, by binding its successors, to compass the death
of the State. It is too late to raise this question in this
court. It has been held that the legislature has the power
to bind the State in relinquishing its power to tax a corporation.* It has been held that such a provision in the charter
of al incorporation constitutes a contract which the State
may not subsequently impair.f These doctrines have been
reiterated and reaffirmed so recently as the year 1871, in an
opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Davis in the case of The
Wilminglon Railroad v. Beid.t They must be considered as
settled in this court.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
* Jefferson Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436.
t Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters, 514; Dartmouth College V.
Woodward, 4 Wheaton, 518; The Binghamton Bridge, 8 Wallace, 51.
$ 18 Wallace, 264.

