Dec. 1872.]

CARPENTER V. LONGAN.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

-

the forms in which a remedy is granted in sach a case, but
it is not doubted that the present decision will be in practice
equally effectual to that end, as it is entirely competent for
the Circuit Court, under the circumstances, to grant a rehearing and reinstate the case, and to proceed and decide
the questions presented in the bill of exceptions.
Mandamus being the proper remedy, error will not lie.*
WRIT OF ERROR DISMISSED
FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

CARPENTER V. LONGAN.
1. The assignment of a negotiable note before its maturity, raises the presumption of a want of notice of any defence to it; and this presump.
tion stands till it is overcome by sufficient proof.
2. When a mortgage given at the same time with the execution of a negotiable note and to secure payment of it, is subsequently, but before the
maturity of the note, transferred bond fide for value, with the note, the
holder of the note when obliged to resort to the mortgage is unaffected
by any equities arising between the mortgagor and mortgagee subsequently to the transfer, and of which he, the assignee, had no notice at
the time it was made. He takes the mortgage as he did the note.
APPEAL

from the Supreme Court of Colorado Territory.

.Messrs. J. Al. Carlisle and . D. MPherson, for the appellant; Messrs. .Bartley and Casey contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and
delivered the
opinion of the court.
On the 5th of March, 1867, the appellee, Mahala Longan,
and Jesse B. Longan, executed their promissory note to
Jacob B. Carpenter, or order, for the sum of $980, payable
six months after date, at the Colorado National Bank, in
Denver City, with interest at the rate of three and a half per
cent. per month until paid. At the same time Mahala Longan
executed to Carpenter a mortgage upon certain real estate
* Ayres v. Carver, 17 Howard, 591.

CARPENTER V.

LONGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

therein described. The mortgage was conditioned for the
payment of the note at maturity, according to its effect.
On the 24th of July, 1867, more than two months before
the maturity of the note, Jacob B. Carpenter, for a valuable
consideration, assigned the note and mortgage to B. Platte
Carpenter, the appellant. The note not being paid at maturity, the appellant filed this bill against Mahala Longan, in
the District Court of Jefferson County, Colorado Territory,
to foreclose the mortgage.
She answered and alleged that when she executed the
mortgage to Jacob B. Carpenter, she also delivered to him
certain wheat and flour, which he promised to sell, and to
apply thelproceeds to the payment of the note; that at the
maturity of the note she had tendered the amount due upon
it, and had demanded the return of the note and mortgage
and of the wheat and flour, all which was refused. Subsequently she filed an amended answer, in which she charged
that Jacob B. Carpenter had converted the wheat and flour
to his own use, and that when the appellant took the assignment of the note and mortgage, he had full knowledge of
the facts touching the delivery of the wheat and flour to his
assignor. Testimony was taken upon both sides. It was
proved that the wheat and flour were in the hands of Miller
& Williams, warehousemen, in the city of Denver, that they
sold, and received payment for, a part, and that the money
thus received and the residue of the wheat and flour were
lost by their failure. The only question made in the case was,
upon whom this loss should fall, whether upon the appellant or the appellee. The view which we have taken of the
case renders it unnecessary to advert more fully to the facts
relating to the subject. The District Court decreed in favor
of the appellant for the full amount of the note and interest.
The Supreme Court of the Territory reversed the decree,
holding that the value of the wheat and flour should be deducted. The complainant thereupon removed the case to
this court by appeal.
It is proved and not controverted that the note and mortgage were assigned to the appellant for a valuable consid-

Dec. 1872.]

CARPENTER V. LjONGAN.
Opinion of the court.

eration before the maturity of the note. Notice of anything
touching the wheat and flour is not brought home to him.
The assignment of a note underdue raises the presumption of the want of notice, and this presumption stands until
it is overcome by sufficient proof. The case is a different
one from what it would be if the mortgage stood alone, or
the note was non-negotiable, or had been assigned after ma*turity. The question presented for our determination is,
whether an assignee, under the circumstances of this case.
takes the mortgage as he takes the note, free from the ob.
jections to which it was liable in the hands of the mortga
gee. We hold the affirmative.*- The contract as regardri
the note was that the maker should pay it at maturity to any
bondfide indorsee, without reference to any defences to which
it might have been liable in the hands of the payee. The
mortgage was conditioned to secure the fulfilment of that
contract. To let in such a defence against such a holder
would be a clear departure from the agreement of the mortgagor and mortgagee, to which the assignee subsequently,
in good faith, became a party. If the mortgagor desired to
reserve such an advantage, he should have given a nonnegotiable instrument. If one of two innocent persons must
suffer by a deceit, it is more consonant to reason that he who
"puts trust and confidence in the deceiver should be a loser
rather than a stranger."t- Upon a bill of foreclosure filed by the assignee, an account
must be taken to ascertain the amount due upon the instrument secured by the morta> )Here the amount due was
the face of the note and interest, and that could have been
ht-ftntthat
recovered in an action at law. Eqqjyl
* Powell on Mortgages, 908; 1 Hilliard on Mortgages, 672; Coot on
Mortgages, 304; Reeves v. Scully, Walker's Chancery, 248; Fisher V. Otis,
3 Chandler, 83; Martineau v. McCollum, 4 Id. 153; Bloomer v. Henderson,
8 Michigan, 395; Potts v. Blackwell, 4 Jones, 58; Cicotte v. Gagnier, .2
Michigan, 381 ; Pierce v. Faunce, 47 Maine, 507 ; Palmer v. Yates, 3 Sandford, 137; Taylor v. Page, 6 Allen, 86; Croft v. Bunster, 9 Wisconsin, 603,
Cornell v. Hilchens, 11 Id. 353.
t Hem v. Nichols, 1 Salkeld, 289.
VOL.

xvI.

18

CARPENTER V.

LONGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

less was due. It is a case in which equity must follow the
la-wAderee that the amount due shall be paid within a
specified time, or that the mortgaged premises shall be sold,
follows necessarily. Powell, cited supra, says: "But if the
debt were on a negotiable security, as a bill of exchange
collaterally secured by a mortgage, and the mortgagee, after
payment of part of it by the mortgagor, actually negotiated
the note for the value, the indorsee or assignee would, it
seems, in all events, be entitled to have his money from the
mortgagor on liquidating the account, although he had paid
it before, because the indorsee or assignee has a legal right
to the note and a legal remedy at law, which a court of
equity ought not to take from him, but to allow him the
benefit of on the account."
A different doctrine would involve strange anomalies.
The assignee might file his bill and the court dismiss it. He
could then sue at law, recover judgment, and sell the mortgaged premises under execution. It is not pretended that
equity would interpose against him. So, if the aid of equity
were properly invoked to give effect to the lien of the judgment upon the same premises for the full amount, it could
tiot be refused. Surely such an excrescence ought not to be
permitted to disfigure any system of enlightened jurisprudence. It is the plicy-of-the-law toavoi ciruit o
In,
and parties ought not to be driven.from one forum to obtain
a remedy which cannot be denied in another.
The mortgaged premises are pledged as security for the
debt. In proportion as a remedy is denied the contract is
violated, and the rights of the assignee are set at naught.
In other words, the mortgage ceases to be security for a part
or the whole of the debt, its express provisions to the contrary notwithstanding.
The note and mortgage are inseparable; the former as
essential, the latter as an incident. An assignment of the
note carries the mortgagn with it, while an assignment of
the latter alone is a nullity.*
* Jackson v. Blodget, 5 Cowan, 205;

Jackson v. Willard, 4 Johnson, 48.

Dec. 1872.]

CARPENTER v. LONGAN.
Opinion of the court.

It mustbe admitted that there is considerable discrepancy
in the authorities upon the question under consideration.
In Baily v. Smith et al.*-a case marked by great ability
and fulness of research-the Supreme Court of Ohio came
to a conclusion different from that at which we have arrived
The judgment was put chiefly upon the ground that notes,
negotiable, are made so by statute, while there i' no such
statutory provision as to mortgages, and that hence the assignee takes the latter as he would, any other chose in action,
subject to all the equities which subsisted against it while inthe hands of the original holder. To this view of the subject there are several answers.
The transfer of the note carries with it the security, witliout any formal assignment or delivery, or even mention of
the latter. If not assignable at law, it is clearly so in equity.
When the amount due on the note is ascertained in the foreclosure proceeding, equity recognizes it as conclusive, and
decrees accordingly. Whether the title of the assignee is
legal or equitable is immaterial. The result follows irrespective of that question. The process is only a mode of.
enforcing a lien.
All the authorities agree that the debt is the principal
thing and the mortgage an accessory. Equity puts the
principal and accessory upon a footing of equality, and gives
to the assignee of the evidence of the debt the same rights
in regard to both. There is no departure from any principle
of law or equity in reaching this conclusion. There is no
analogy between this case and one where a cho-s4in-action_
sta-nding- alb---is so-t1M Fbe enforced. The falacywhick
lies in.
ooking- th dThtin-io has misled many able
minds, andis-theiurce of all the confusion that exists. The
Mnortgage can have no separate existence. When the note
is paid the mortgage expires. It cannot survive for a moment the debt whibh the note represents. This dependent
and incidental -relation is the controlling consideration, and
takes the case out of the rule applied to choses in action,
* 14 Ohio State, 396.

276

CARPENTER V. LONGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

where no such relation of dependence exists. Accessorium
non ducit, sequiturprincipale.
In Pierce v. Faunce,* the court say: "A mortgage is pro
tanto a purchase, and a bona ule mortgagee is equally entitled to protection as the bone fide grantee. So the assignee
of a mortgage is on the same footing with the bonafide mortgagee. It all cases the reliance of the purchaser is upon
the record, and when that discloses an unimpeachable title
he receives the protection of the law as against unknown
and latent defects."
Matthews v. JWallwynt is usually much relied upon by those
who maintain the infirmity of the assignee's title. In that
case the mortgage was given to secure the payment of a
non-negotiable bond. The mortgagee assigned the bond
and mortgage fraudulently and thereafter received large
sums which should have been credited upon the debt. The
assignee sought to enforc.e the mortgage for the full amount
specified in the bond. The Lord Chancellor was at first
troubled by the consideration that the mortgage deed purported to convey the legal title, and seemed inclined to
think that might take the case out of the rule of liability
which would be applied to the bond if standing alone. He
finally came to a different conclusion, holding the mortgage
to be a mere security. He said, finally: "The debt, therefore, is the principal thing; and it is obvious th-at if an action was brought on the bond in the name of the mortgagee,
as it must be, the mortgagor shall pay no more than what is
really due upon the bond; if an action of covenant was
brought by the covenantee, the account must be settled in that
action. In this court the condition of the assignee cannot
be better than it would be at law in any mode he could
take to recover what was due upon the assignment." The
principle is distinctly recognized that the measure of liability upon the instrument secured is the measure of the
liability chargeable upon the security. The condition of
the assignee cannot be better in law than it is in equity.
* 47 Maine, 513.

t" 4 Vesey, 126.

Dec. 1872.]

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.

1277

Statement of the case.

So neither can it be worse. Upon this ground we place our
judgment.
We think the doctrine we have laid down is sustained by
reason, principle, and the greater weight of authority.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the case remanded with directions

to enter a decree
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

BUCHANAN V. SMITH.

1. A creditor has reasonable cause to believe his debtor ccinsolvent" in the
sense of the Bankrupt Act, when such a state of facts is brought to his
notice respecting the affairs and pecuniary condition of his debtor, as
would lead a prudent business man to the conclusion that he, the debtor,
is unable to meet his obligations as they mature in the ordinary course
of business.
2. A debtor "suffers" or "procures" his property to be seized on execution,
when, knowing himself to be insolvent, an admitted creditor who has
brought suit against him-and who he knows will, unless he applies for
the benefit of the Bankrupt Act, secure a preference over all other creditors-proceeds in the effort to get a judgment until one has been actually
got by the perseverance of him the creditor and the default of him the
debtor.
R Such effort by the creditor to get a judgment; and such omission by the
debtor to "invoke the protecting shield of the Bankrupt Act" in favor
of all his creditors, is a fraud on the Bankrupt Act, and invalidates any
judgments obtained.
4. The fact that the debtor, just before the judgments were recovered, may
have made a general assignment which he meant for the benefit of all
his creditors equally, does not change the case. Such assignment is a
nullity.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of New York, where the proofs, as conceived by the reporter, made a case essentially thus:

The Cascade Paper Manufacturing Company of Penn Yan,
NewYork, had for a long time purchased things used in the
manufacture of paper, of Buchanan & Co., merchants in the
city of New York, and had habitually given notes in pay,

