Dec. 1872.]

MARSHALL V. KNOX.

Syllabus.

title of the purchaser, must show that the latter knew what
the facts were, the court would still be of the opinion thai
the decree ought to be affirmed, as the terms of the license
which the seller gave to the purchasers were sufficient to
put them upon inquiry, and it is quite obvious that the
means of knowledge were at hand, and that if they had
made the least inquiry they would have ascertained that
their grantor could not give them any title to use the machines beyond the period of fourteen years from the date of
the original letters-patent, as he was only a licensee and
never had any power to sell a machine so as to withdraw it
indefinitely from the operation of the franchise secured by
the patent.
DEOREE

AFFIRMED.

MARSHALL V. KNOX.
1. The District Court sitting in bankruptcy has no jurisdiction to proceed by
rule to take goods seized, before any act of bankruptcy by the lessees, for
rent due by them in Louisiana, under "a writ of provisional seizure "and then in the hands of the sheriff, and held by him as a pledge for the
payment of rent due-out of his hands, and to deliver them to the assignee
in bankruptcy to be disposed of under the orders of the bankrupt court;
neither the sheriff nor the lessor having been parties to the proceedings
in bankruptcy nor served with process to make them such.
2. The Circuit Court may under the second section of the Bankrupt Act entertain on bill as an original proceeding, a case thus involving a question of adverse interest in goods so seized.
8. Under the Civil Code of Louisiana, a lessor has a right to seize, for rent
in arrears, goods on the premises, and until he is paid his rent, retain
them as against an assignee in bankruptcy subsequently occurring.
4. In such a case where the goods have been taken out of his hands and
given to the assignee in bankruptcy, by an order of the District Court
acting summarily and without jurisdiction, and sold by such assignee,
the Circuit Court, having got possession of the case by bill filed by the
lessor, to be regarded as one in an original proceeding, will proceed and
decide the whole controversy.
5. And it will give the lessor the full value of the goods sold clear of all
expenses, whether the assignee obtained that value or not (limited, of
course, by the amount of rent which he is entitled to have paid to him),
and also to all the taxable costs to which he has been put by the litiga-

552

MARSHALL V. KNOX.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
tion. Damages beyond this refused as hardly due in the particular case,
and at any rate more properly to be claimed in a proceeding at law.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana; the case being thus:
Marshall was the owner of a plantation in the parish of
Avoyelles, in Louisiana, and on the 7th of February, 1867,
leased it to INathan Smith and Henry Fuller for three years,
from January 1st, 1867, at $3000 a year, payable in two
equal payments. At the end of the first year the tenants
were in arrear $1400, and on the 4th of January, 1868, Marshall commenced an action therefor in the District Court of
the parish, and applied for and obtained a writ of provisional seizure (as it is called), being the usual process by
which a lessor takes possession of his lessee's property found
on the premises, for the purpose of enforcing his lien thereon.
This writ was served by the sheriff on the 6th of January,
1868, by serving a copy on the lessees, and by a seizure of
their property on the land, consisting of mules, wagons,
farming implements, and stock, grain, furniture, &c., ap.
praised at $1744.
On the 15th of January, 1868, Smith, one of the lessees,
filed in the District Court of the United States for Louisiana
a petition to be declared a bankrupt, and was declared such
accordingly; and on the 12th of February, 1868, the defendants were appointed his assignees. The controversy in
this case arose from the proceedings undertaken by the assignees to take the property aforesaid out of the hands of
the sheriff, and to dispose of it under the orders of the bankrupt court. They first obtained from the court a rule upon
the lessor and the sheriff to show cause why they should not
deliver up the property to the assignees, alleging that various creditors of the bankrupt claimed a privilege on the
property, and that it was necessary for a proper adjustment
of all claims, privileges, and liens, that the possession should
be surrendered to the assignees, to be subject to the bankrupt court. The lessor contested this rule, state-I his own
rights and proceedings, and claimed possession of the prop-

Dec. 1872.]

MARSHALL V. ]KNOX.
Statement of the case.

erty through the sheriff, for the purpose of selling the same
to raise the amount of his rent. The rule, however, was
made absolute, without, so far as appeared, any other proof
on the subject. The lessor appealed, but the district judge
would not allow the appeal, and there was no justice of this
court at that time (April, 1868) assigned to that circuit to
whom application could be made. The lessor thereupon
filed a bill, the present bill, in the court below for an injunction to prohibit the assignees from proceeding under the said
order of the bankrupt court, and from taking possession of
the property, and for a decree that they be directed to pursue any residuary interest of the bankrupt in the lessor's
suit in the District Court of the parish, and not molest him
in detaining and subjecting the property to the payment of
his rent, and for further relief. Failing to obtain a preliminary injunction, and the property being taken and sold by
the assignees, the lessor filed a supplemental bill, complaining of the illegality of the proceedings, asking for a review
of the same, and for an account and damages. The bill and
supplemental bill set out the lease, the provisional seizure,
the proceedings in the bankrupt court, and the acts of the
assignees; and complained that the lessor was injured by a
sacrifice of the property; and stated that before filing the
original bill he had offered the assignees a bond, with sufficient sureties, to protect any persons claiming any superior
liens to his on the property, if any such there were, which,
however, he denied.
The defendants, in their answer, alleged' that the lessees
had. a counter claim for repairs and permanent improvements, and that a number of hands employed on the plantation had a privilege for their wages superior to that of the
lessor; but no proof of these facts was offered in the case.
The principal allegations of the complainant were proved,
and the defendants on their part adduced proof to show that
they had acted in good faith under the orders of the bankrupt court, and that they had sold the property fairly, and
held the proceeds for distribution, according to the rights
e he parties in due course of the bankruptcy proceedings.

MARSHALL V. KNOX.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

On hearing, the bill was dismissed for want of jurisdiction; and Marshall, the lessor and complainant, appealed
Three questions now came before this court:
1st. Was this decree dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction rightly made? Ought not the court below contrariwise, to have entertained the case and decided it on its
merits ?
2d. Supposing that it ought to have done so, how stood
the case on the merits? and
3d. If these were with the complainant, what relief ought
he to have?
Messrs. -. T. Merrick and G. W. Race, for the appellant; no
opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the courtThe first question is, whether the decree dismissing the
bill for want of jurisdiction was rightly made, and this is to
be solved by reference to the second section of the Bankrupt Act. By this section it is declared that the Circuit
Courts "shall have a general superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases and questions arising under this act; and,
except when special provision is otherwise made, may, upon
bill, petition, or other proper process, of any party aggrieved,
hear and determine the case as in a court of equity." By a
subsequent clause of the same section it is declared that said
courts "shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the District
Courts. . . of all suits at law or in equity . . . by the assignee against any person claiming an adverse interest, or
by such person against such assignee, touching any property, or rights of property, of said bankrupt, transferable to
or vested in such assignee."
The first clause confers upon the Circuit Courts that supervisory jurisdiction which may be exercised in a summary
manner, in term or vacation, in court or at chambers, and
upon the exercise of which this court has decided that it has
no appellate jurisdiction.*
* Morgan v. Thornhill, 11 Wallace, 66.

Dec. 1872.]

MARSHALL V. KNOX.

Opinion of the court.

The second. clause confers jurisdiction by regular suit,
either at law or in equity, in the cases specified; that is, it'
controversies between the assignee and persons claiming an
adverse interest, touching any property of the bankrupt.
The present case is in form a regular bill in equity; but
it also asks a revision of the action of the District Court in
the premises. As an original bill in equity it cannot stand,
if the District Court had jurisdiction to proceed as it did;
for the matter was already decided in that court. As a bill
to review the proceedings and decision of the District Court,
it was a very proper proceeding, and ought to have been
entertained by the Circuit Court. The revisory jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court may be exercised by bill as well as by
petition; and as this bill complains of the action of the District Court, and asks for a review and reversal thereof, the
Circuit Court erred in dismissing it for want of jurisdiction.
But regarded as a bill of review, we could not, according to
our decision in Morgan v. Thornhill, entertain an appeal from
the decision of the Circuit Court in the case.
The appeal, therefore, must be dismissed, unless it can be
shown that the District Court proceeded without jurisdiction. If this were the case, then the bill may be regarded
as an original bill, of which the Circuit Court clearly had
jurisdiction, and the appeal to this court was properly
taken.
The case here, then, depends on the question whether the
District Court had jurisdiction to proceed by'rule as it did.
The goods, it has been seen, were in the custody of the
sheriff, under a writ of provisional seizure, and held as a
pledge for the rent of the lessor. The seizure had been
made before the bankruptcy. The landlord claimed the
right thus to hold possession of them until his claim for rent
was satisfied. This claim was adverse to that of the assignee. The case presented was one of conflicting claims
to the possession of goods; and the sheriff had present possession for the benefit of the lessor. Neither the sheriff nor
the lessor was a party to the proceedings in bankruptcy.
Nc process had been served upon them to make them such.

MARSHALL V.

KNOX.

[Sup.,

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

They were not before the court; and the court had no control or jurisdiction over them.
Under these circumstances the assignees applied for and
obtained from the District Court, a rule on the lessor and
sheriff to deliver the goods to them. Had the court authority to make such a rule? Could such a rule be characterized as due process of law?
The bankrupt law does not distinguish in what cases the
District Court may proceed summarily, and in what cases
by plenary suit; and we are left to decide the question on
the general principles that affect the case. The second section, however, in conferring jurisdiction on the Circuit
Courts, uses this language: "Said Circuit Courts shall also
have concurrent jurisdiction with the District Courts of the
same district of all suits at law or in equity, which may or
shall be brought by the assignee in bankruptcy against any
person claiming an adverse interest, or by such person
against such assignee, touching any property or rights of
property of said bankrupt." This language seems to indicate that where there is a claim to an adverse interest in the
property, a suit at law or in equity will be the mode of redress properly resorted to. The eighth section, in granting
appeals and writs of error from the District to the Circuit
Court, only does so in cases in equity and at law, and in
cases where the claim of a creditor is allowed or rejected.
If, therefore, adverse claims to property could be decided
by the summary action of the District Court, not only would
the party claiming adversely to the assignee be deprived of
a trial by due process of law, but he would be without appeal. An appeal was in fact denied in this case.
We think that it could not have been the intention of
Congress thus to deprive parties claiming property, of
which they were in possession, of the usual processes of the
law in defence of their rights.
The subject, in one of its aspects, came before this court
in the case of Smith v. Mason, reported in 14 Wallace, 419.
In that case the adverse claim was to the absolute property
of the fund in dispute; not, as in this, to a mere lien, and

Dec. 1872.]

MARSHALL V. KNOX.

Opinion of the court.

to possession by way of pledge under the lien; and we held
that the bankrupt court could not, by a mere rule, make
the adverse claimant a party to the bankruptcy proceedings
and adjudge his right in a dummary way, but that the assignee must litigate the claim in a plenary suit, either at
law or in equity. But it may, with some plausibility, be
said that, as the property in this case is conceded to be in
the bankrupt, and the question has respect only to the right
of possession under the lien, the District Court, which has
express jurisdiction of the "ascertainment and liquidation
of the liens and other specific claims" on the bankrupt's
property, might properly assume contiol of the property
itself. The claim, however, is to the right of possession,
and that right may be just as absolute and just as essential
to the interests of the claimant as the right of property in
the thing itself, and is, in fact, a species of property in tile
thing just as much the subject of litigation as the thing itself. It is the opinion of the court, therefore, that the case
is not substantially different from that of Smith v. Mason.
Besides, it has another point, in common with that case, upon
which a direct adjudication was made therein. The lessor
in this case was not a party to the bankrupt proceeding;
and in Smith v. Mason we held expressly that "strangers to
the proceedings in bankruptcy, not served with process, and
who have not voluntarily appeared and become parties to
such litigation, cannot be compelled to come into court
under a petition for a rule to show cause."
The court is of opinion, therefore, that the District Court
proceeded without jurisdiction in compelling the lessor and
the sheriff, under a rule to show cause, to deliver up possession of the goods in question to the assignees. It results
that the bill in this case was properly filed as an original
bill, and on that account should not have been dismissed as
for want of jurisdiction. The case should have been heard
and decided upon the merits.
We are then brought to the question of merits. If the
complainant had no right to hold the goods, notwithstand

MARSHALL V. KNOX.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ing his claim to hold them, in an action at law against the
assignee he could have recovered only nominal damages;
and, coming into a court of equity for redress, and praying
for an account of the value of'the goods, and for damages,
if it turn out that he had no right to withhold the goods
from the possession of the assignee, the court would be
very reluctant to compel the latter to place the value of the
goods in his hands to be relitigated in another suit. A
court of equity having got possession of the case by the
lessor's own act, must proceed to decide the whole merits
of the controversy.
But we think it very clear that the complainant had a
right to the possession which he claimed. The fourteenth
section of the Bankrupt Act, it is true, vests in the assignees all the property and estate of the bankrupt, "although
the same is then attached on mesne process as the property of the debtor, and shall dissolve any such attachment
made within four months next preceding the commence.ment of such proceedings." But this clause evidently refers to those cases of original process of attachment, which
only become perfected liens by the judgment which may
ensue. The lessor's lien for rent on the goods of his tenant
situate on the premises is one of the strongest and most favored in the law of Louisiana. The articles of the Civil Code
use the following language:
"The lessor has for the payment of his rent and other
obligations of the lease, a right of pledge on the movable
effects of the lessee which are found on the property
leased."*
"In the exercise of this right the lessor may seize the objects which are the subject of it before the lessee takes them
away, or within fifteen days after they are taken away, if
they continue to be the property of the lessee, and can be
identified."t

"The right which the lessor has over the products of the
estate, and on the movables which are found on the place
* Article 2675.

t- Article 2679.

Dec. 1872.]

MARSHALL V. KNOX.

Opinion of the court.

leased, for his rent, is of a higher nature than mere privilege. The latter is only enforced on the price arising from
the sale of movables to which it applies. It does not enable
the creditor to take or keep the effects themselves specially.
The lessor, on the contrary, may take the effects themselves
and retain them until he is paid."*
When the rent accrues, or even before it is due, if the
lessor apprehends that the goods may be removed, he may
have a writ of provisional seizure to the sheriff, who, by
virtue thereof, takes possession of the goods and sells them
in due course, as soon as the court has recognized the
amount of rent for which they are liable.
Such a case is similar to that of an execution, in reference
to which it has been properly held that where the levy is
made before the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy, the possession of the officer cannot be disturbed by
the assignee. The latter, in such case, is only entitled to
such residue as may remain in the sheriff's hands after the
debt for which the execution issued has been satisfied.
Such, we think, were the relative rights of the parties in
this case. If the assignee apprehended that the sheriff
would, by delay or negligence, waste the goods in his hands,
he could either apply to the District Court of the parish for
redress or aid in the premises, or perhaps file a bill in equity
in the Circuit or District Court of the United States.
The next question is, what relief ought to be given to the
complainant?
The goods have been sold by the assignees. They cannot be returned in specie. The supplemental bill prays
that the assignees be decreed to account to the complainant
for the full value of the property, and also such sum of
money as he might be entitled to receive by reason of the
wrongful acts of the assignees in the premises, and for further relief. The bill, it must be remembered, was originally
filed for an injunction to prevent the assignees from disturbing the complainant in his possession of the goods. He
* Article 3185.

SMITH V.

MCCooL.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the ease.

was not in laches in defending his rights. He is clearly entitled, under the circumstances of the case, to the fell value
of these goods, clear of all expenses, whether the assignees
realized that value or not (limited, of course, by the amount
of rent which he is entitled to be paid); and also to all the
taxable costs to which he has been put by this litigation.
As to any damages beyond that, if he has sufered any, we
think that he ought not to recover them in this suit, as he,
or the sheriff for his benefit, had an option to bring an
action of trespass for damages, instead of resorting to a
court of equity for relief. Damages are allowed, it is true,
in certain cases, as incidental to other relief; but even if
they could, in strictness, be awarded in this suit, we do not
think that the case is such as to call for the interposition of
the court in directing an inquiry as to damages.
DECREE REVERSED,

with directions to the court below to

proceed in the cause
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

SMITH V. MCCOOL.
Where in ejectment a special verdict has been found and judgment entered
on it in the court below, for the plaintiff, which judgment, in an appellate court, is set aside with directions to enter judgment for the defendant, the special verdict cannot, on the plaintiffs bringing a second ejectment upon a subsequently acquired title, be used to establish a fact
found in it, as ex. gr. the heirship of one of the parties under whom the
plaintiffs claimed.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois. The case was twice argued in this court: once at
December Term, 1869, and now again in December Term,
1872.

Messrs. G. F. -Hardingand H. M. Weed, for the plaintiff in
error; Messrs. J. B. Hawley and G. C. Lanphere, contra.

