378

INSURANCE COMPANY V. PIAGGrO.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. PIAGGIO.
1. A. brought suit on a policy on vessel and freight, for a total loss. The
jury found the whole amount insured with interest and $5000 besides for
damages, and judgment was entered accordingly. Held, that the party
could not recover damages beyond legal interest, and that there was
error on the face of the record.
2. The error held, however, not to require a venire de novo, but to be such
that, under the "Act to further the administration of justice" (17 Stat.
at Large, 197), the court could reverse the judgment and modify it by
disallowing the $5000, and remanding the case with directions to enter
judgment for the residue found by the jury with interest ;-the case
being one where all the facts were apparent in the record, though not
by a special verdict in form.
3. It is not error to charge that a party assured had no right to abandon,
when the insurers have accepted the abandonment.
4. Nor to refuse to charge that an abandonment made through error, and so
accepted, is void if not warranted by the policy, when no evidence had
been given of error by either side.
5. A judgment will not be reversed for want of a charge requested when the
record contains no sufficient information that the charge requested was
material to the issues.
6. Nor because the court charges in a way which, though right in the abstract, may not be so in application, when the record does not show that
sufficient evidence had not been given to warrant the jury in passing on
the question.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana,
in which court Piaggio brought suit against the New Orleans Insurance Company for a total loss, under two policies
of insurance: the one for $7000, on the brig Sicilia, and the
other for $5000 on her freight.
The petition alleged that the brig, having sailed from
New Orleans for Helsingfors, in the Gulf of Finland, July
20th, 1870, was compelled "by the perils of the seas and unavoidable accidents," to put into Matanzas, Cuba; that the
plaintiff, upon news of the disaster, gave information to the
insurers and asked whether he should abandon the vessel,
and was advised so to do; that thereupon he abandoned to
the insurers, and claimed for a total loss, and the abandonment was accepted.

Dec. 1872.] INSURANCE OOMPANY V. PIAGGIO.
Statement of the case.

It further alleged that the brig, while in the port of Matanzas, was driven ashore by a hurricane, and, with her
cargo, wrecked and entirely lost.
It further alleged that the insurers promised to pay the
insurance on freight, and informed the plaintiff that they
would telegraph to their bankers in London to pay the same
to the plaintiff's order, but that soon after they declined to
pay or recognize the loss, and recalled their instructions for
payment given to their bankers; that when the plaintiff
was informed that the insurance on freight would be paid,
he drew against the amount on his correspondent in Genoa,
to whom he had transferred the certificate of insurance on
freight; that his draft was protested, and thereby his credit
injured and his business damaged to the extent of $15,000.
It further alleged that the defendants had reinsured on
this risk $10,000 with another company on the cargo of the
vessel, and had paid to the said company the loss on said
risk.
The plaintiff claimed the sums insured on the vessel and
freight, and the damage of $15,000 with interest, for the
non-payment.
The answer of the defendants put in issue, by denial, all
the allegations of the petition, alleged that the policies were
void for non-payment of premiums; that the brig was unseaworthy; that she put into Matanzas from unseaworthiness,
and not.from perils of the seas; and that there, the plaintiff's
agents finding it impossible to raise money by bottomry to
make her seaworthy, telegraphed a false account of her disasters, and that the defendants, trusting thereto, assented to
abandonment, and, to accommodate the plaintiff, were willing to advance funds without waiting for the proofs and de-

lays required by the policy; that learning the truth as to
the abandonment, they revoked their acceptance of it,*and
declined to make the accommodation advances.
The answer then alleged that the policies were vitiated by
the brig's deviation in voluntarily putting into Matanzas.
The policy set out in the plaintiff's petition contained
clauses:

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. PIAGGIO.

[Sup. (Ct.

Statement of the case.

"Warranted not to use ports in the West India Islands be-

tween July 15th and October 15th.
"No loss except general average shall in any case be paid
unless amounting to 75 per cent., after deducting proceeds of
savings, if any, and exclusive of all charges of ascertaining and
proving the loss."
On the trial the defendants requested the court to charge:
"1. That if the jury find that the plaintiff abandoned the
voyage when he had no right to make the abandonment of the
Sicilia, by reason of repairs needed, falling short of the 75 per
cent. of valuation of said Sicilia, under the warranty of the
policy on the hull, then the plaintiff cannot recover on the
policy for the freight, and his abandonment of the freight-list
to the insurers did not bind the latter."
"The court refused to give this charge because it was
in proof that an abandonment had been made and accepted
without fraud, and under and in accordance with the advice
of the defendant."
"2. That an abandonment made by plaintiff through error,
and accepted through error by the defendant, whether conditionally or unconditionally, is null and void, if not warranted
at the time under the policy of insurance."
" This was refused as irrelevant; no evidence having been
adduced of error by either party. The court therefore considered it to be merely a speculative instruction or charge."
"3. As the policy of insurance warrants that the insurers
would be liable only for total loss, or constructive total loss,
when the damage exceeded 75 per cent., if the jury find that
the damage to the brig Sicilia, when in the port of Matanzas,
did not exceed 75 per cent. of the value put on her in the policy
after deductions stated in said policy, then the plaintiff had no
right to make an abandonment."
"The court refused to give the charge because it was in
proof that an abandonment had been made and accepted
without fraud, and under and in accordance with the advice
of the defendant."
"4. That the reinsurance by the defendants of the cargo of

Dec. 1872.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. PIAGGIO.

38]

Statement of the case.

the Sicilia to the amount of $10,000, which had been insured by
another company, not being made in favor of the plaintiff, who
was a total stranger to this transaction, has no connection with
the issues raised as to the policy on the hull and freight of the
Sicilia, and therefore can have no bearing on the decision of this
jury; and that in the absence of proof as to the warranties in
said insurance and reinsurance policies of $10,000 on the cargo,
it is impossible to determine whether or not the payment and
reimbursement of the said $10,000 were properly and correctly
made; and that whether properly or improperly made that circumstance cannot militate either for or against either the plaintiff or defendant in the present bontroversy."
"The court refused to give the said charge;" no reason
being assigned.
To these four refusals the defendants excepted.
The court charged (the defendants again excepting):
"That independent of the abandonment, if the jury believe
there was an actual total loss by storm and disaster of the sea,
the plaintiff has a right to recover."
The jury found a verdict in these words:
"That the plaintiff shall recover from defendants the sum of
$7000 under his policy of insurance in the hull of the vessel;
the sum of $5700, gold coin, under his policy of insurance in the
freight-list; together with interest on these two amounts, as prayed
and the further sum of $5000 damages,
for in his petition; s
with interest at the rate of 5 per cent. from the ddte of judicial
demand."
A motion to set aside the verdict and for a new trial being
refused, the court thus entered its judgment:
"By reason of the verdict and in accordance therewith it is
ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the plaintiff do have and
recover of the defendant the sum of $7000 under his policy on
the hull of brig Sicilia; the sum of $5700, gold coin, under his
policy on the freight-list; together with 5 per cent. interest on said
two sums from September 29th, 1870, till paid; S& and the further
sum of $5000 damages, with 5 per cent, interest from the 14th
of December. the day of judicial demand, till paid, and costs of
suit."

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. PIAGGIO.

[Sup. (2t.

Argument for the insurers.

The return to this court did not contain any of the evidence given at the trial, which seemed to have occupied
several days, with an examination of seven witnesses orally,
and numerous documents.
The case came here by writ of error; on the following
assignment of errors:
I. The allowance and computation in the judgment of
damages, for non-payment of the freight insurance, to wit,
$5000, and interest thereon, over and above the full sums
insured in both policies and interest thereon.
II. The allowance and computation in the judgment of
the loss under the vessel policy, notwithstanding the breach
of the warranty against the use of West India ports in that
policy, and the loss of the vessel in such a port during such
breach.
III. The errors in the refusals to charge, and in the charge,
as already set forth in the five bills of exceptions and the
foregoing statement.
Mr. W. H. Evars, for the plaintiff in error:
L It is not necessary to argue, or adduce authorities for,
the proposition that interest is the only damages for the
simple non-payment of money according to duty, or to implied or express contract. That the allowance of $5000 as
damages, over and above the insurance-moneys, and interest
on them, was error, on the face of the record, and without
any reference to any possible evidence or ruling at the trial,
and that, for this error, the judgment below must be reversed, is indisputable.
I. As to the second ground for a new trial for error apparent upon the record, to wit: the breach of warranty, in
the use of the West India port of Matanzas, and the wreck
by a hurricane in that port, the only question seems to be as
to the consequence of the absence from the record of any
evidence bearing upon the point of this resort to the port
of Matanzas being voluntary or under stress from perils insured against. But, on the face of the contract, a breach ot
its warranty arises by the resort to this West India port, and

Dec. 1872.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. PIAGGIO.
Argument for the insurers.

the wreck from peril there supervening. The affirmative
proof to defeat this consequence of this apparent breach of
warranty is wholly wanting. Presumptively,.no such proof
was offered at the trial. It is not allowable for the plaintiff
in error to incumber the record by all the evidence at the trial
upon the motive and to the end of showing that no such
proof was given. The defendant in error should have procured the presence of such evidence, if any was given at the
trial, by the appropriate applications in the court below or
in this court.
II. The errors exhibited- on the bills of exception.
1st. The instruction asked for and refused, and made the
occasion of the first bill of exceptions, was proper to be
given, and the refusal to give it was error. The court put
its refusal to give this instruction upon the single ground
"that it was in proof that an abandonment had been made
and accepted without fraud, and under and in accordance
with the advice of the defendants." But this was in issue
on the pleadings, and proofs, and was the very thing to be
passed upon by the jury. The court refused a proper instruction, on a question of law, by usurpation of the province
of the jury, on a question of fact.
2d. The same observations, in substance, apply to the
second bill. A proper instruction, as matter of law, is refused upon an assumption of a conclusion of fact, which belonged to the jury.
3d. The error under the third bill is of the same character
as that under the first; the observations made upon that are
applicable to this.
4th. The instruction asked for and refused was clearly
proper, and the exception in the fourth bill was well taken.
The evidence had been taken upon this extraneous transaction, and for the purpose of affecting the verdict of the jury,
which it was well calculated to do. The court was rightly
called upon to exclude this consideration from affecting the
mind of the jury, unless it was, in law, a proper subject for
their consideration in this case. It manifestly was not
proper, as an element in the jury's conclusions in this case.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. PIAGGIO.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

5th. The passage in the charge of the judge which is made
the subject of the fifth bill, as an abstract and general proposition, may be unobjectionable. But, indisputably, the only
"1actualtotal loss by storms and disaster of the sea," was by
the hurricane in the port of Matanzas, and this naked charge,
applied to this state of facts, was equivalent to a peremptory
charge that, without regard to the antecedent history of the
voyage, or to the warranties of the policies, the plaintiffs
had a right to recover for a total loss under both policies.
But this depends upon the question whether the total wreck
by the hurricane, in the port of Matanzas, was covered or
not by the policies, as an original and independent cause of
loss. And this depended upon the previous history of the
voyage, and could only be disposed of by the verdict of the
jury, under proper instructions from the court, covering
these anterior considerations.
Mr. T. T Durant, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Due application was made by the plaintiff to the corporation defendants for a policy of insurance upon the brig
Sicilia, of which he was the owner, and on the 11th of July,
1870, he effected with the defendants such a contract, for
the period of one year, lost or not lost, the brig then lying
in the port of New Orleans, whereby the defendants insured
the vessel against the perils of the seas and other risks of her
intended voyages, as more fully appears in the policy.
It also appears that the plaintiff, five days later, having
freighted the brig with cotton for Helsingfors, in the Gulf
of Finland, also effected insurance, with the defendants, upon
her freight list for $5700, payable to his own order in gold,
as shown by the certificate filed in the case, which represents
and takes the place of a policy as fully as if the property
was covered by such an instrument, issued direct to the
holder of the certificate.
Well appointed and in good order and condition, the brig,
on the 20th of the same month, left her port of departure

Dec. 1872.]

INSURANcE COMPANY V. PIAGGIO.

385

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

laden with a valuable cargo of cotton and properly officered
and manned, but was subsequently compelled, by perils of
the seas and unavoidable accidents, to put into the port of
Matanzas, Cuba, in distress and disabled, for the security of
the property concerned and the preservation of the lives
of those on board [?], that being disabled and in want of
repairs she remained in that harbor for that purpose, and
that while there, and before her repairs were completed, she
was driven ashore by a hurricane, and in spite of every exertion which could be made to save her, was wrecked, and,
with her cargo, was entirely lost.
Payment of the sums insured being refused, the plaintiff
instituted the present suit to recover the amount, claiming
also $15,000 in addition thereto, as damages for the delay
in fulfilling the contract. Testimony was taken, and the
parties went to trial; and the jury, under the instructions of
the court, returned a verdict for the plaintiff, and the defendants excepted and sued out the present writ of error.
By the terms of the policy, the brig was valued at $10,000,
but the risk taken by the defendants on the vessel was only
$7000, as appears by the policy.
Exceptions were taken by the defendants to the refusal of
the court to instruct the jury, as requested, and to the instru ctions given by the court to the jury, and they also assign
for error the finding by the jury, of $5000 damages, and tha
allowance of the same in the judgment of the court, and,
also, of the allowance in the judgment of the loqs under the
policy.
These allowance are specified in the verdict, substantially
as follows: That the plaintiff shall recover the sum of $700D
under his policy on the vessel, the sum of $5700, gold coin,
under his policy on the freight list, with interest, as prayed
in his petition, and the further sum of $5000 damages, with
interest at the rate of five per cent. from the date of judicial
demand.
Judgment was rendered for the plaintiff, as follows: By
reason of the verdict it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed
that the plaintiff do have and recover the sum of $7000
VOL. XVI.

25

INSURANCE COMPANY V. PIAGGIc

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

under his policy on the brig, the sum of $5700, gold coin,
under his policy on the freight list, together with five per
cent. interest on said two sums from September 29th, 1870,
till paid; and the further sum of $5000 damages, with five
per cent. interest from the 14th of December, the day of
judicial demand, till paid, and costs of suit.
Errors apparent in other parts of the record may be reexamined, as well as those which are shown in the bill or
bills of exceptions, and it is too plain for argument that the
verdict and judgment are a part of the record. Whenever
the error is apparent in the record the rule is that it is open
to re-examination, whether it be made to appear by bill of
exceptions or in any other manner; and it is everywhere admitted that a writ of error will lie when a party is aggrieved
by an error in the foundation, proceedings, judgment, or
execution of a suit in a court of record.*
Damages were claimed by the plaintiff in this case for alleged loss on account of the failure of the defendants to make
payments as stipulated in the policy, and it appears by the
verdict that the jury awarded to the plaintiff $5000 on that
account, in addition to lawful interest. Apart from that, it
also appears that the court, in computing the judgment, allowed the same sum for the same claim.
Interest is allowable as damages in such a case from the
time the payments were due, or from demand made, where
the defendant refuses to account or make payment, but the
plaintiff cannot recover special damages for the detention
of money due to him beyond what the law allows as interest.t Where a principal sum is to be paid at a specific
time, the law implies an agreement to make good the loss
arising from a default by the payment of lawful interest.1
* Suydam v. Williamson, 20 Howard, 433, 437; Bennett v. Butterworth,
11 Id. 669; Slacum v. Pomeroy, 6 Cranch, 221; Garland v. Davis, 4 Howard, 131; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheaton, 410.
t Kendall v. Stokes, 3 Howard, 102; Pope v. Barret, 1 Mason, 117; celr
ieight v. Calbraith, 4 Dallas, 325.
t Robinson v. Bland, 2 Burrows, 1086; Sedgwick on Damages, 4th ed.
434.

Dec. 1872.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. PIAGGIO.
-- -

Opinion of the court

Tested by these considerations, it is quite clear that the act
,ofthe jury in allowing the plaintiff $5000 for the detention
of the money due under the policies, in addition to lawful
interest, and the act of the Circuit Court in including that
amount in the judgment, were erroneous; and inasmuch as
the error is apparent both in the verdict and in the judgment, it is equally clear that it is a matter which is re-examinable in this court on a writ of error; and, having come
to that conclusion, the only remaining inquiry in this confiection is what disposition shall be made of the case.
Errors of the kind, it is insisted by the defendants, necessarily require that a new venire shall be ordered, but the
act of Congress to further the administration of justice*
provides that the appellate court may affirm, modify, or reverse the judgment, decree, or order brought before it for
review, or may direct such judgment, decree, or order to be
rendered, or such further proceedings to be had by the inferior court as the justice of the case may require; and in
view of that provision the court is not inclined to adopt the
course suggested by the defendants, as it would lead to unnecessary delay and expense.
Verdicts, it is said, are either general or special, and that
if there is error in a case where the verdict is general it can
only be corrected by a new trial, and it must be admitted
that the rule as suggested finds much countenance in the
text-books; nor will it be necessary to depart from that rule
in the present case. Strictly speaking, a special verdict is
where the jury find the facts of the case and refer the decision of the cause to the court, with a conditional conclusion,
that if the court is of the opinion, upon the whole matter as
found, that the plaintiff is entitled to recover, then the jury
find for the plaintiff; but if otherwise, then they find for the
defendant.t
Examples of special verdicts less formal, however, may
be found, and the usual course is to sustain such verdicts if
* 17 Stat. at Large, 197.

- Mumford v. Wardell, 6 Wallace, 432; Suydam v. Williamson, 20 Howard, 432; 3 Blackstone's Commentaries, 377.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. PIAGGIO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

they contain all the facts necessary to a proper judgment between the parties in respect to the matter in controversy.
Courts also, in the trial of issues of fact, often propound
questions to a jury, and the rule is well settled that such a
special finding, even when it is inconsistent with the general verdict, shall control in determining what judgment
shall be rendered in the case.*
Undoubtedly a special verdict is erroneous if it does not
find all the facts essential to the rendering of the judgment;
but if it contain all the facts required for that purpose the
better opinion is that the court of original jurisdiction may
render such judgment as the facts found require, and if they
err, and the error is apparent in the record, that such error
may be re-examined on writ of error in this court.t
Confirmation of this view as the correct one is also derived from the act of Congressl which permits parties to
waive a jury and submit the issues of fact, in civil cases, to,
the court, as the provision in that act is that the finding may
be general or special, and that it shall have the same effect
as the verdict of a jury. Special findings, under that provision, never have a conditional conclusion, and yet the review extends, by the express words of the act, to the determination of the sufficiency of the facts found to support the
judgment.
All the facts are found in this case, and they are all apparent in the record, and inasmuch as the question to be
determined is what judgment ought to be rendered on those
facts, the court is of the opinion that it is not necessary toc
order a new venire.
Five bills of exceptions were tendered and allowed, as
follows:
* Rambo v. Wyatt, 32 Alabama, 363; Fraschieris v. Henriques, 6 Abbott
Practice Cases (N. S.), 263; Anonymous, 3 Salkeld, 373; Trust Company v.
Harris, 2 Bosworth, 87; Adamson v. Rose, 30 Indiana, 383.
t O'Brien v. Palmer, 49 Illinois, 73; Manning v. Monaghan, 23 New
York, 641; Seward v. Jackson, 8 Cowen, 406; Monkhouse v. Hay, 8 Price,
280; Moody v. McDonald, 4 California, 299; Langley v. Warner, 3 Comstock,
a29; Moffet v. Sackett, 18 New York, 528.
1 13 Stat. at Large, 501.

Dec. 1872.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. PIAGGIO.
Opinion of the court.

(1.) Because the court refused to instruct the jury that if
they found that the plaintiff abandoned the voyage when he
had no right to make the abandonment under the policy,
then the plaintiff cannot recover for the insurance on the
freight list; but the bill of exceptions states that the court
refused to give the charge because it was in proof that an
abandonment had been made and accepted without fraud
and in accordance with the advice of the defendants, which
is all that need be said on the subject.
(2.) Because the court refused to charge the jury that an
abandonment made by the plaintiff through error and accepted through error by the defendants, whether conditionally or unconditionally, is null and void, if not warranted at
the time, under the policy of insurance; but the bill of ex.ceptions states that the court refused so to instruct the jury
because no evidence had been given to show error by either
party, which is certainly a good reason for declining to give
the instruction.*
(8.) Because the court refused to instruct the jury substantially as in the first request, and which was declined for the
:same reason.
(4.) Because the court refused to instruct the jury as rejuested in respect to a policy of reinsurance executed by the
ilefendants on the cargo of the brig; but the record contains
t'o sufficient information that such an instruction was ma.
lerial to the issues between the parties.
(5.) Because the court instructed the jury that, independent of the abandonment, if they believed there was an actual
total loss, by storm and disaster of the sea, the plaintiff had
a right to recover. Doubt cannot be entertained of the correctness of that instruction as an abstract proposition, and
inasmuch as it is not stated in the bill of exceptions that
evidence had not been given sufficient to warrant the jury
in passing upon the quesion, it is plain that it furnishes no
proper ground to reverse the judgment.
Deviation is also set up as a defence, but the record con* United States v. Breitling, 20 Howard, 252; Goodman v. Simonds, 20

Id. 859.

BURKE V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

tains no evidence upon the subject, nor is any such question
presented in any one of the bills of exceptions.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND MODIFIED, by disallowing the sum
of $5000 damages found by the jury and included in the
judgment, and the interest allowed on the same, and the
cause remanded with directions to enter a judgment for the
plaintiff for the residue found by the jury, with interest.

BURKE V. SMITH.
The laws of a State required that before being oiganized, all railroad companies should have a subscription to their stock of not less than $50,000.
Certain persons did subscribe more than this (to wit, $148,750), with a
proviso, however, that if a certain city in its corporate capacity subscribed $50,000 or upwards, the city should accept what each of them
bad subscribed above a small sum ($300) named. The city did subscribe
the $50,000, and much more ($400,000), when, A.D. 1853, the directors
of the company-these directors being themselves persons who had subscribed part of the $148,750-passed a resolution authorizing the original subscribers to transfer to the city all stock subscribed by them over
$300 each, and that the stock thus transferred be merged in the subscription made by the city.
As appeared by "an agreement of record," in which, without signature
of anybody attached, it was certified by the clerk that it was admitted
by the complainants on the final hearing that all the subscribers transferred, before July, 1854, their stock (above $300) to the city; that non&
of the original subscribers were ever charged on the books of the company with any greater amount than $300; that this sum had been paid
by each, and accepted by the company in full satisfaction.
The company being insolvent in 1858, and the executions of creditors
being then returned unsatisfied, the creditors of the company, in 1868,
filed a bill against the original subscribers to make them pay up the
excess over $300 which they had subscribed. Held,
1. That these subscribers could not be made liable for such excess.
2. That the proceeding being one in equity and not at law, the "agreement of record," though not made part of the record by the pleadings,
would be regarded as evidence.
3. That it proved the transfer and acceptance of the stock by the city.
4. That the fact that the directors were original subscribers did not affect
the case; the transfer having been in accordance with the conditions on
which the original subscription was made, and in itself fair.

