Z84

WAGER

v

HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

based on the evidence which was received without objection,
and about which there is no controversy.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
[See the next following case, and also Smith v. Buchanan, supra, p. 277.]

WAGER ET AL. V. HALL.
1. The transfer by a debtor who is insolvent, of his property, or a considerable portion of it, to one creditor as a security for a pre-existing debt,
without making any provision for an equal distribution of its proceeds
to all his creditors, operates as a preference to such transferee, and must
be taken as primd facie evidence that a preference was intended, unless
the debtor or transferee can show that the debtor was at the time ignorant of his insolvency, and that his affairs were such that he could reasonably expect to pay all his debts.
2. Such a transfer, if made within four months before the filing by the party
of a petition in bankruptcy, is in fraud of the Bankrupt Act, and void.

from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of Wisconsin.
Hall, assignee of Lakin, a trader in Brodhead, Green
County, Wisconsin, filed a bill in the court below against
Wager & Fales, merchants, of Troy, New York, to set aside
a mortgage on lands in the said Brodhead, given by the said
bankrupt to them for $3000, to secure five payments, of $600
each, payable in six, twelve, sixteen, twenty, and twenty-four
months, which mortgage and notes were executed December
15th, 1869, being twenty-four days prior to his filing his petition in bankruptcy, on the ground that it was given in violation of the Bankrupt Act. That act, in its 35th section,
thus enacts :*
APPEAL

"If any person, being insolvent, or in contemplation of insolvency, within four months before the filing of the petition by
or against him, with a view to give a preference to any creditor or
* 14 Stat. at Large, 534.

,Dec. 1872.]

WAGER v. HALL.
Statement of the case.

person having a claim against him, . . . makes any... pledge,
assignment, transfer, or conveyance of any part of his property,
. . . absolutely or conditionally, the person receiving such . . .
pledge, assignment,.transfer, or conveyance, or to be benefited
thereby. . . . having reasonable cause to believe such person is
insolvent, and that such . . . pledge, assignment, or conveyance
is made in fraud of the provisions of this act, the same shall be
void, and the assignee may recover the property, or the value
of it, from the person so receiving it, or so to be benefited."
The admitted case, stated favorably for the bankrupt,
seemed to be thus:
Prior to 1854, Lakin was a clerk in Troy, and while there
made the acquaintance of Fales (one of the defendants), who
wag a clerk at the same time. In 1854, Lakin went to
Janesville, Wisconsin, and for two years worked as a clerk
in a grocery store. Then he was in partnership with one
Williston, in the grocery business, in Janesville, until the
spring of 1858. Then he was a clerk for two years in Janesville and other places, during the last six months of which
he was in the hardware store of one Richardson, of Janesville. In 1860 Richardson started a branch hardware store
at Brodhead, about twenty miles west of Janesville, and put
the same under the control of Lakin, who received half of
the profits for his services.
After about sixteen months Lakin bought out Richardson, and continued a general hardware business at Brodhead, making purchases of stoves from a firm in Troy, which
his former fellow-clerk at Troy, Fales, had formed with one
Wager under the name of Wager & Fales. His sales in
1862 and 1868 were about $15,000 a year, and from 1864 to
1870 from $20,000 to $28,000 per year. His invoice of goods
on hand, taken in 1864, was $10,393.67. His invoice of
goods taken September 13th, 1865, was $8450.77. Soon
after that he set agoing a branch store at Juda, near Brodhead,and his whole inventory, taken December 31st, 1867,
was $23,978.97.
In February, 1868, he sold out his entire stock of stoves
and tinware to Spaulding & Brown, of Brodhead, for $6000,

WAGER

v.

HIALL.

[-Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

but continued to deal in hardware and agricultural implements.
Spaulding & Brown paid $2000 cash down, and for the
balance gave their note of $4000, payable as fast as the
stoves should be sold, and a considerable portion of this
note remained unpaid January, 1870.
Up to April 1st, 1868, Lakin's stock was in a rented
wooden building, and then being in fear of fire, he resolved to build a brick store, and for that purpose borrowed, at that time, on long time, $3000 of his father-in-law,
Hayner, to be secured by mortgage on. the store, and began
to build the store on lots which he then owned. Hayner
superintended the building of the store, and it was completed near the close of the same year, costing, aside from
the lots, $8500.
Hayner resided in Brodhead from April 1st, 1868, to
June, 1869, when he moved to Woodstock, Illinois, but he
did not receive his mortgage until August 27th, 1869.
Lakin commenced buying stoves of Wager & Fales (whose
mortgage it was now sought to set aside) as early as 1863,
and continued to buy from $300 to $4000 per year from that
time to and including 1867.
The debt for which Lakin gave the mortgage to Wager
& Fales, was mostly for stoves purchased by him in 1867 at
four months' credit. At the time of purchase it was agreed
that Lakin should pay interest on all bills after maturity.
Wager & Fales permitted the account to run until the notes
and mortgage were given, he in the meantime making some
small payments.
Lakin sold but few of the stoves bought of Wager &
Fales during 1867, nor until he sold out his stove business
to Spaulding & Brown; and the fact that he failed to realize
on the stoves, and that he desired to build a new brick block
during 1868, induced him to urge Wager & Fales to wait on
him, and as their account was on interest, and there was
nothing else to be done amicably, they consented.
When his store was completed, which was near the close
of the year 1868, he found it had cost about double what he

Dec. 1872.]

WAGER V. HALL.
Statement of the case.

had expected, and as he bad not realized on the stoves, he
asked for further time, again promising to pay interest.
On the 1st of February, 1869, Lakin wrote Wager & Fales
hoping that they would "not get entirely out of patience
with him or lose confidence in him," excusing himself for
non-payment, and telling them that he had "a good stock
of goods, in a good brick store, well insured, and was in a
better and safer condition than ever before."
On the 4th of March, 1869, Lakin, having again excused
himself for non-payment, and begged patience, after repeated
requests for payment by Wager & Fales, who say they have
already waited "very patiently," requested Wager &Fales to.
send him a statement of his account, and "several notes
running as long a time as they could afford to let them, and
that he would stamp, sign, and return them," and do his
best to meet them when due. The matter rested in this
way until one Johnson, who had for several years been the
travelling agent of Wager & Fales, and was then their partner, came West and saw Lakin with a view of getting money
from him. Lakin asked for more time. Johnson told him
he would give him time, but if he gave him long time that
he ought to give a mortgage on his real estate. Lakin was
reluctant to give a mortgage, and stated that he was perfectly responsible, more so than when the debt was incurred,
and that if his matters were closed up under the hammer,
he would have $15,000 over and above his debts, and offered
to turn out notes against other parties, three dollars to one,
but said that the times were hard, and that he depended
upon farmers for collection. The matter was left open at
Lakin's" special request and on his assurance that a mortgage would injure his credit, and on his promise to pay certain stipulated sums monthly.
After Johnson got home, and about September, 1869, he
gave Wager &Fales a detailed account of his interview with
Lakin, and told them that he considered Lakin honest and
responsible, that he required some time to make him easy
in his business matters, and that he thought it was their
duty to accommodate him by giving him time, for the rea-

WAGER V. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sons that he had bought a great many stoves of them, and
paid them a great deal of money, and probably would again,
and was partly a Trojan, and out of their friendship for him;
and then if he would give a ten per cent. mortgage, that
would close up the account on the books of the old firm of
Wager & Fales, now about to be reconstituted, with him,
Johnson, as a partner. In this Wager & Fales concurred.
The matter remained in that way until some time in October or November, 1869, when Wager & Fales sent the matter to Richardson to put in shape; the same Richardson already mentioned as the old principal of Lakin at Janesville,
in 1860, and who was a friend as well of their own. Richardson and Lakin agreed upon terms, and Lakin was to get an
abstract of title, execute the papers, and return them; but
upon Richardson's submitting the proposition to Wager &
Fales, they objected to certain portions of it, and Richardson informed Lakin that the matter must rest until he heard
further from Wager & Fales. When he did hear, Lakin
consented to their terms, and on the 15th of December, 1869,
the mortgage and notes were given.
During the year 1869, including the last four months of
that year, Lakin was in the habit of stating to all who questioned him in regard to his condition, that he was worth
from $12,000 to $15,000 over and above his debts and liabilities.
So far as to the mortgage sought by this bill to be set
aside.
Now as to the circumstances under which the petition in
bankruptcy was filed.
About the 1st of September, 1869, that is to say, four
months prior to filing it, Lakin owed a certain Nazro about
$2400. During that four months Nazro sold him over $500
worth of goods, and Lakin paid him during the same time
over $400. His last purchase was over $200, and made November 26th, 1869, and his last payment December 20th,
1869.
On the 26th of December, 1869, a friend of Lakin, residing at Brodhead, went to Woodstock with a letter which he

Dec. 1872.]

WAGER V. HALL.

Statement of the case.

had just received from a friend in Chicago, saying that a report had been sent by some one in Brodhead to the lMercantile Agency in Chicago, that Lakin had made an assignment
of his property to his father-in-law, Mr. Hayner. Lakin
went to Janesville and told his attorney of the report, gave
him what, according to his own account, he supposed, at the
time, to be a true statement of his affairs, that he owed
about $12,000 besides what he owed flHayner on the mortgage above mentioned, and that he had goods, notes, accounts, and real estate, which in his opinion were worth
$28,000 or $30,000, and asked for advice. His attorney advised him to make a statement of his affairs to his creditors,
ask them for an extension, if necessary; telling them there
was no truth in the report of the assignment, and to get his
friends to indorse for him; the attorney saying that thus he
thought there would be no trouble in arranging matters.
Almost immediately some of his creditors, including an
agent of Nazro, came to Brodhead to investigate his concerns. He and Nazro's agent made a statement of his condition, and on December 27th or 28th, 1869, and after a considerable investigation, found that his debts were much
larger than he had ever stated, and, as he alleged, much
larger than he had ever supposed; being at least $23,000.
Lakin then saw his attorney again, and told him how he
had found matters, and was advised to send a full printed
statement of his condition to each of his creditors. Lakin
made and sent out such a statement, dated January 1st, 1870,
and it showed his debts to be $26,447.73.
Lakin, then in company with Nazro's agent, again counselled with his attorney, who advised him that as Nazro
was one of his largest creditors and a man of great business
experience, he had better go to Milwaukee with the agent,
and confer with Nazro, and he did so. Nazro then requested
Lakin to go into voluntary bankruptcy. Lakin expressed a
wish to do what was best for his creditors, but told Nfazro
he thought his creditors would get more money if they
would select some one as assignee, and that he would turn
over everything he had to such assignee for the benefit of

WAGER V.

HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

his creditors. Nazro told Lakin that the securities he had
given stood in the way of that, and that unless he went
into voluntary bankruptcy, he would himself file a petition
and force him into bankruptcy. Lakin then saw his attorney, and filed his petition in bankruptcy January 8th, 1870.
Lakin's books were in a bad condition, and had been
kept very loosely for years. The result was that his schedules in bankruptcy, dated February 2d, 1870, showed his
debts to be $28,450.
Lakin's particular friend, Richardson, was on his paper
during most of the last six months of the year 1869, and a
company with which he was connected was a general creditor at the time of the failure. Lakin's father-in-law, Hayner, and his particular friend, Williston, were on his paper
to a considerable amount at the bank at the time of his failure. A brother-in-law was a general creditor for $1083.
Several of his most intimate friends were general creditors.
So far as to the admitted case.
1. To show that Lakin was at the time of giving the mortgage to Wager & Fales insolvent, and that he gave them the
mortgage with a view to give them a preference over his
other creditors, the assignee called five witnesses, whose
evidence tended to show that for one or two years prior to
the failure, Lakin had found it difficult to raise money to
pay certain claims against him, and at times had been unable
to do so and been protested; that he used moneys in his
hands as treasurer of the school district, and also as treasurer of the church, and also moneys held by him in trust
and in a fiduciary capacity, and that they and some others in
Brodhead regarded him irresponsible, but that during the
same time he was doing a business of from $15,000 to $80,000
per year, and pretended to be worth $20,000 over and above
al" his debts. Two of these witnesses had, during the time,
reported him to mercantile agencies as insolvent.
To rebut this evidence, and to show that whatever might
have been Lakin's actual condition, he never, prior to his
failure, had any idea of stopping business, or being unable

Dec. 1872.]

WAGER

v. H=ALL.

Argument for the debtor.

to pay all his debts, or that the mortgage would operate as
a preference to Wager & Fales, but that he gave the mortgage to obtain a long extension so that he would _ot have
to crowd his own creditors, or sell property for less than it
- was worth to pay his debts, and that this extension would
give him more money to use in his business and pay other
debts, the defendants called nine witnesses, whose evidence
in addition to the facts, as above stated, tended to show that
Lakin as treasurer of the school district and the church received no compensation, but by a sort of consent of the
board of trustees used the moneys as he pleased, they drawing on him for the amounts as they might desire to use it;
that there was no defalcation with either.
2. To show that Wager & Fales at the time of receiving
this mortgage had reasonable cause to believe that Lakin
was insolvent, and that the mortgage was made in fraud of
the provisions of the Bankrupt Act, the assignee called one
witness. His evidence tended to show that he had had a
conversation with the defendant, Wager, in November, 1869,
in "which Wager stated that he had made up his mind that
Lakin was insolvent, but that the witness stated that he had
recently been in Brodhead and that Lakin had assured him
that he had property enough to pay all his debts, and he
thought Lakin would pay dollar for dollar.
This testimony was contradicted by Wager.
In addition to this there was the positive evidence of six
witnesses, that Lakin had all the time represented himself
to be worth from $12,000 to $15,000 over and above his
debts, and that they all believed it.
The court below decreed that the mortgage was fraudulen't, and should be discharged of record. The defendants
appealed to this court.
llessrs. J. B. Cassady and W. erill,for the appellant:
1. Did Lakin make the mortgage with a view to give Wager
& Fales a preference over his other creditors?
The words-" with a view to give a preference "--were
selected and put in this clause of the statute because they
express a thought-a condition of things which the clause

592

WAGER V. HALL.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the debtor.

would not express without them, and hence they are not to
be rendered insignificant by construction.
Lakin could not give a mortgage "with a view to give
Wager & Fales a preference over his other creditors," without recognizing the fact, or in other words knowing, or at
least believing, that he had not sufficient property to pay all
his debts, and hence that in so far as he secured them in excess of their proportionate share of his estate, he would take
from others a corresponding amount of their proportionate
share of his estate, and thus prevent an equal distribution
of his estate which in his mind-his view-at the time was
less in value than the amount of his liabilities. A view to
give a preference, therefore, as used in this clause, is nothing
more nor less than a mental picture, a vision of an amount
of indebtedness by the debtor exceeding the value of all his
property, and a purpose to prevent an equal distribution by
paying or securing some creditors at the expense of others.
If Lakin had the picture in his mind-the vision-then he
necessarily had some intent or belief as to the effect of giving the mortgage, and hence. his intent or belief is in the question. The giving of a mortgage, or doing any other act by
a debtor which would operate as a preference with such a
picture in his mind, and with such a purpose, would establish an intent to give a preference.
But it is idle to talk about a man giving a mortgage with
a view to give a preference to some of his creditors over
others, when at the time of giving the mortgage he had no
knowledge or belief that his property was less in value than
the amount of his liabilities.
The case of Jones v. H:owland,* a leading case iu Massachusetts, seems to settle this case in our favor. That case,
indeed, arose on section second of the Bankrupt Act of 1841.
But a fair analysis of that section and of section thirty-five
of the present bankrupt law, under which this case arises,
will, we think, reveal the fact, that they mean to lay down
essentially the same rule as to the intent of the debtor, and if
this is so the authorities sustain our position.
* 8 Metcalf, 377, 386, 387.

Dec. 1872.]

WAGER V. HALL.
Argument for the debtor.

In Jones v. Howland the court say:
"If a party who fears or believes himself insolvent, but does not
contemplate stoppage or failure, and intends to keep on, and
make his payments, and transact his business, hoping that his
affairs may be thereafter retrieved, and in that state of mind
makes a sale or payment, without intending to give a preference, and as a measure connected with going on in his business,
and not as a measure preparatory to, or connected with, a stoppage in business, such sale or payment is not void, as made in
contemplation of bankruptcy, within the meaning of the secont"
section of the United States Bankrupt Act of 1841, though hbi
immediately afterwards became bankrupt.

"It is said that a man must be supposed to intend the natural
result of his act. But this remark, though often treated as at
axiom, is by no means an infallible proposition. The result is
not always evidence of the supposed intent. When we look
back upon events that have happened, we stand in a different posi.
tion; we behold with a clearer vision as we embrace within our
glance the beginning and the end, the act and the consequences.
But the man who is doing the act may contemplate a very dif.
ferent result. His judgment may be biassed by his wishes, and
sanguine feelings may be the cause of overlooking difficulties,
which to a more quiet temperament might appear insurmountable. Disappointments also may take place which were not
anticipated. The experience of others is rarely a guide to an
embarrassed man, and he goes on with the hope of relief, even
against hope. To infer, therefore, a design to give a preference
to a favored creditor, and in the immediate expectation of bankruptcy, from the mere fact of insolvency, is by no means a certain inference nor such as the jury would be necessarily bound to
draw from the debtor's knowledge of his insolvency. The evidence must also gofurtherand establish, as afact,the design to give
the preference-a fact too important to be lef&upon conjecture."
The court in the above opinion follows the best considered
English cases;* and these cases have been adopted by this
* Pidgeon v. Sharpe, 5 Taunton, 545; Morgan v. Brundrett, 5 Barne.
wall & Adolphus, 297; Atkinson v. Brindall, 2 Bingham's New Cases, 225;
Same Case, 2 Scott, 869; Hartshorn v. Slodden, 2 Bosanquet & Puller, 582;
Gibbins v. Phillips, 7 Barnewall & Creswell, 529; Belcher v. Prittie, 10
Bingham, 408.
VOL. XVI.
88

WAGER v. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the debtor.

court as containing the "sounder rule."*

Hence this court

takes the same view as the court did in Jones v. Howland.
The doctrine stated in that case has moroever been cited with
approval or substantially followed in many of the Circuit and
District Courts of the United States.
2. Did Wager & Fales, at the time of receiving the mortgage, have reasonable cause to believe that Lakin was insolvent?
There is no evidence that Wager & Fales had any knowl-

edge that Lakin owed any debt except their own, and we
submit, as a matter of law, that the mere fact that Wager
& Fales held an account against Lakin which had been due
nearly two years, under the circumstances stated, is not sufficient to establish as a matter of fact that they had reasonable cause to believe that he was insolvent.
3. Did Wager & Fales when they received the mortgage
have reasonable cause to believe that Lakin made it in fraud
of the provisions of the Bankrupt Act?
It is very evident that the question whether the mortgage was made by Lakin in fraud of the provisions of the
Bankrupt Act, is entirely a different question from the one
whether at the time he had the ability to pay his debts as
they became due in the ordinary course of business; and for
Wager & Fales to have reasonable cause to believe the one,
is entirely a different question than for them to have reasonable cause to believe the other.
The evidence is overwhelming that Wager, Fales, Johnson, and Richardson were at the time of receiving the mortgage each and all convinced from what they knew in regard
to Lakin, and what he had told them, that he was worth
from $10,000 to $20,000, over and above his debts, and there
is no evidence in the case tending to show that they had
any reasonable cause to believe that he owed any considerable amount of debts aside from their own, much less that
the amount of his debts was in excess or equal to the value
of his property.
* Buckingham v. McLean, 13 Howard, 169-170.

Dec. 1872.-]

WAGER V. HALL.
Restatement 6f the case in the opinion.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Preferences as well as fraudulent conveyances, if made
within four months before the filing of the petition by or
against the bankrupt, are forbidden by the Bankrupt Act,
but three things must be proved in order that the transaction may come within that prohibition and be affected by it
as an illegal payment, security, or transfer: (1.) That the
payment, pledge, assignment, trainsfer, or conveyance was
made within four months before the filing of the petition by
or against the bankrupt and with a view to give a preference
to some one of his creditors, or to a person having a claim
against him or who was under some liability on his account.
(2.) That the person making the payment, pledge, assignment, transfer, or conveyance was insolvent or in contem-"
p]ation of insolvency at the time the preference was given
or secured. (3.) That the person receiving such payment,
pledge, assignment, or conveyance, or to be benefited
thereby, had reasonable cause to believe that the person
making the payment or giving or securing such preference
was insolvent, and that the payment, -pledge, assignment,
tradsfer, or conveyance was made in fraud of the -provisions
of the Bankrupt Act.*
On the 15th of December, 1869, the insolvent debtor
named in the bill of complaint executed to the respondents
a certain deed of mortgage of that date, of the following
parcels of real estate, situate in the town of Brodhead in
that State, and known as the north one-third of lot one in
block one hundred and one, also all of lot three in block one
hundred and one, also the north half of the south half of
block seventy-nine, also the east half and the southwest
quarter of block two hundred and six, also all of block one
hundred and forty-two, it appearing that all of these several
parcels of real estate were conv~yed by the insolvent debtor
to secure the payment of five notes which he gave to the
respondents, of the same date, payable to the respondents
Scammon v. Cole, 5 National Bankruptcy Register, 259.

WAGER

v. HArL..

[Sup. Ct

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

or order as follows: one for $600, payable in six months;
one for $600, payable in twelve months; one for $600 payable in sixteen months; one for $600, payable in twenty
months, and one for $600 payable in two years, and all with
interest at the rate of 10 per cent.
Prior to that date, to wit, on the 27th of August of the
same year, the insolvent debtor mortgaged the first-named_
parcel of real estate, which is his new brick store and lot, to.
Andrew P. ilayner, the father of his wife, to secure the
payment of three notes of that date which he gave to the
mortgagee, of the following tenor: one for $1287.87, payable in three years; one for $1000, payable in two years, and
one for $1000, payable in three years, all with interest annually at the rate of 10 per cent.
Twenty-four days after he gave the mortgage to the respondents he filed his petition in bankruptcy, and on the
2d of February following he was adjudged a bankrupt. His
creditors made an examination into his affairs soon after he
gave the mortgage to the respondents, when it was made toappear that he was hopelessly insolvent, which induced him
to make an effort to compromise with his creditors, but
without any success, and he then filed the petition to be adjudged a bankrupt, and on the 4th of March in the same
year the complainant was duly appointed the assignee in
bankruptcy of his estate.
All of the notes secured by the mortgage to the respondents were given by the insolvent debtor for a debt which
had been past due more than two years, and which the insolvent contracted for stoves purchased by him as stock in
trade. His purchases were made on a credit of four months,
and the record shows that the respondents, in repeated instances, called upon him for payment and had several times
sent their agent to effect that object without much success.
Small amounts were paid, but the insolvent debtor constantly asked for further indulgence, offering as a reason for
his failure to meet his contracts that business was dull, and
that it was impossible to collect what was due from his cus.
tomers.

Dec.1872.]

WAGER V. HALL.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

More than a year before the execution of this mortgage,
'he sold out his stock of stoves to other parties and abandoned
that business, limiting his trade to that of a retail hardware
merchant, and during that same year he built the new brick
store which' he mortgaged to his father-in-law three or four
months before he gave the mortgage to the respondents.
Precisely what sum the store cost does not appear, but it
,must have been as much as $6000 or $8000, as the evidence
shows that he owed more than $14,000 when he gave the
mortgage in question, a large portion of which had been due
-for a long time.
Convincing evidence-was also introduced showing that for
a year or two he had been hard pressed for money by many
-ofhis creditors, and that his notes in repeated instances had
been protested for non-payment, and it also appears that he
bad borrowed money at banks by means of indorsers and
been obliged to get the same renewed, and he had used trust
-funds in his hands to pay pressing demands, and when called
upon to repay the amount he was obliged to ask for delay.
Some of the notes given for the stock of stoves he had
used to secure past-due debts and such portion of the con'sideration as had been paid he had expended in his business.
Part of the money required to build the store, to wit, the
-sum of $3000, he borrowed of his wife's father, agreeing at
The time to give him a mortgage of the premises when the
k.tore was completed, but the mortgage was not executed
until the next season, and it appears that the respondents,
when they heard of that mortgage through their agent, also
-demanded a similar security, which the insolvent debtor for
a time refused to give, pleading as an excuse for declining
'the requost that it would injure his credit. Witnesses were
also examined to show that his credit was not in good repute,
but it is unnecessary to enter into those details, as the proofs
are of the most satisfactory character that he did not pay his
'debts when the obligations fell due and that he suffered his
notes to go to protest.
Nothing need be added to show that the means of ascertaining the condition of his affairs were at hand, as his other

WAGER v. H:ALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

creditors, when they instituted inquiries upon the subject,
shortly after the insolvent debtor gave the mortgage to the
respondents, found no difficulty in learning that he owed
more than the value of his property, and that he had been
insolvent for two years. Enough, and more than enough
has been remarked to show that the mortgagor was insolvent when he executed the mortgage to the respondents,
as the fact is admitted both by the mortgagor and the
mortgagees.
Preferences of one creditor over another are prohibited
by the Bankrupt Act, if made within four months before the
filing of the petition, and the complainant, as such assignee,
prays that the mortgage may be declared fraudulent and
void, and that the same may be decreed to be given up to
be cancelled, or that the respondents may be required, in
due form of law, to execute and deliver to him, as such
assignee, a satisfaction, release, and discharge of the mortgage. Proofs were taken, and the parties having been heard,
the Circuit Court entered a decree for the complainant, and.
the respondents appealed to this court.
Made, as the mortgage was, within twenty-four days next
before the petition in bankruptcy was filed, and for the express purpose of securing to the respondents the payment
of a large debt long overdue, the first material allegation to
be proved may be considered, in view of the evidence already
referred to, as fully established. Discussion to show that the
effect of the mortgage was to secure a preference over all of
the creditors of the bankrupt, except his wife's father and
the firm secured by one of the notes given by the purchasers
of the stoves, is unnecessary, as that proposition is self-evident; and the allegation that the mortgagor was insolvent
at the time may also be considered established, as it is fully
proved and stands confessed. Sufficient has also been remarked to show that the conveyance in mortgage was made
with a view to give a preference to the respondents over all
his other creditors, except such as he had previously secured
in the modes previously explained.

Dec. 1872.]

WAGER V. HALL.

099'

Opinion of the court.

Evidence of the most satisfactory character was introduced
to show that the insolvent debtor had reasonable cause to
believe that he was insolvent, and in view of all the circumstances the conclusion of the court is that he knew that he
was insolvent in the sense of the Bankrupt Act. Creditors
were constantly pressing him for payment, and he was notoriously unable to comply with their just demands. Extensions were asked, which were sometimes granted and sometimes refused, and it appears that considerable of his paper
went to protest. Such a conveyance, under such circumstances, could hardly be made by one deeply insolvent
unless with a view t6 give the grantee a preference over
other creditors, who were without any security, as the law
authorizes the presumption that a person of ordinary intelligence intends what is the necessary and unavoidable consequence of his acts.
Insolvency, as used in the Bankrupt Act, when applied
to traders, does not mean an absolute inability of the debtor
to pay his debts at some future time, upon a settlement and
winding up of his affairs, but a present inability to pay in
the ordinary course of his business, or, in other words, that
a trader is insolvent when he cannot pay his debts in the
ordinary course of business as men in trade usually do, and
such must be the conclusion, even though his inability be
not so great as to compel him to stop business.*
Reference is made by the respondents to the case of Jones
v. Howlandt which it is insisted lays down a different rule.
Suppose it be admitted that the opinion in that case affords
some support to the suggestion, still it is only an apparent
inconsistency, which is easily reconciled, as the case arose
upon the prior Bankrupt Act, which did not declare such a
conveyance void, unless it was made in contemplation of bankruptcy andfor the purpose of giving the creditor a preference
or priority over the other creditors of the bankrupt.1 What
was said by the judge who gave the opinion in that case,
v. McConnell, 11 Allen, 562; Thompson v. Thompson, 4 Cush*ennard
ing, 1 34; Barnard v. Crosby, 6 Allen, 331.
t 8 Metcalf, 877-385.
1
$ 5 Stat. at Large, 442.

WAGER V. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

which is supposed to be inconsistent with the more recent
opinions of the court upon the same general subject, was
said in construing the provision referred to in the prior law.
He did say in that case that if the debtor honestly believes
he shall be able to go on in his business, and with such belief pays a just debt without a design to give a preference,
such payment is not fraudulent though bankruptcy should
afterwards ensue; but the judge admitted in the same case
that if the debtor, being insolvent and knowing his situation
and expecting to stop payment, shall then make a payment
or give security to a creditor for a just debt, with a view to
give him a preference over other creditors, such payment or
giving security is fraudulent. But the present Bankrupt
Act avoids a conveyance, made with a view to give a preference, if the debtor at the time be in fact insolvent, although
he may not contemplate bankruptcy in connection with the
conveyance.* Such a conveyance, if made by a person actually
insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency, to secure a preexisting debt, said Hoar, J., "may be avoided by the assignee if the mortgagee had reasonable cause to believe him
insolvent at the time he took the mortgage, and that the
conveyance was made to impede the operation of the insolvent laws;" and he added that it is made primn facie evidence of such cause of belief if the conveyance is not made
in the usual and ordinary course of business of the debtor.t
Nothing remains, therefore, to be re-examined except the
issue whether the respondents had reasonable cause to believe that the mortgagor was insolvent and that the conveyance was made in fraud of the provisions of the Bankrupt
Act. Proof that the respondents had actual knowledge that
the mortgagor was insolvent at that time is not required to
support the prayer for relief, but the allegation in that behalf is sustained if it appears that they had reasonable cause
for such belief, as that is the language of the Bankrupt Act.
Actual knowledge of the alleged fact is not made the criterion of proof in such an issue, nor is it necessary that it
* Forbes v. Howe, 102 Massachusetts, 435.

t Nary v. Merrill, 8 Allen, 452.

Dec. 1872.]

"WAGER v.H:ALL.
Opinion of the court.

should appear that the respondents actually believed that
the mortgagor was insolvent, but the true inquiry is whether
they, as business men, acting with ordinary prudence, sagacity, and discretion, had reasonable cause to believe that
the debtor was insolvent, in view of all the facts and circumstances known to them at the time the conveyance was
made.* Unless the debtor was in fact insolvent it cannot
be held that such a grantee had reasonable cause to believe
the allegation, but if it appears that the debtor was in fact
insolvent as alleged, and that the means of knowledge were
at hand, and that such facts and circumstances were known
to the grantee as were clearly sufficient to put a person of
ordinary prudence and discretion upon inquiry, it is well,
settled that it would be his duty to make all such reasonable
inquiries to ascertain the true state of the case. Purchasers
are required to exercise ordinary prudence in respect to the
title of the seller, and if they fail to investigate when put
upon inquiry, they are chargeable with all the knowledge
which it is reasonable to suppose they would have acquired
if they had performed their duty in that regard.t Creditors
have reasonable cause to believe that a debtor, who is a
trader, is insolvent when such a state of facts is brought to
their notice respecting the affairs and pecuniary condition
of the debtor as would lead a prudent business man to the
conclusion that he is unable to meet his obligations as they
mature in the ordinary course of business.1 All experience
shows that positive proof of fraudulent acts, between debtor
and creditor, is not generally to be expected, and it is for
that reason, among others, that the law allows in such controversies a resort to circumstances as the means of ascertaining the truth, and the rule of evidence is well settled
that circumstances altogether inconclusive, if separately considered, may by their number and joint operation, especially
when corroborated by moral coincidences, be sufficient to
Coburn v. Proctor, 15 Gray, 38.
t Tiffany v. Lucas, 15 Wallace, 410; Scammon v. Cole, 5 National Bankruptcy Registei , 263.
$ Toofv. Martin, 13 Wallace, 40.

WAGER V. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

constitute conclusive proof, which is a rule clearly applicable
to the facts and circumstances disclosed in this record.*
Apply those two rules to the present case and it may well be
said that the argument is concluded, as it is difficult to resist
the conclusion that the respondents had actual knowledge that
"the insolvent debtor was unable to meet his obligations
as they matured in the ordinary course of his business."t
Such proof, however, is not required, as the only issue in
this behalf is whether the respondents had reasonable cause
to believe that the debtor was insolvent at the time they received the conveyance, testing the question under the rule
prescribed by this court.1
Much discussion of the question whether the respondents
had reasonable cause to believe that the conveyance was
made in fraud of the Bankrupt Act may well be omitted, as
the whole issue is substantially adjudged by the recent decision of this court, which is to the effect following: that the
transfer by a debtor who is insolvent of his property, or a
considerable portion of it, to one creditor as a security for a
pre-existing debt, without making any provision for an equal
distribution of its proceeds to all his creditors, operates as a
preference to such transferee and must be taken as prinm
facie evidence that a preference was intended, unless the
debtor or transferee can show that the debtor was at the
time ignorant of his insolvency, and that his affairs were
such that he could reasonably expect to pay all his debts;
and that a transfer by an insolvent debtor of his property,
or any considerable portion of it, with a view to secure it to
one creditor, and thus prevent an equal distribution among
all his creditors, is a transfer in fraud of the Bankrupt Act.ยง
Knowledge of a given fact may be proved by circumstances, even in an ordinary equity suit, where, from the
nature of the pleadings, the testimony of a single witness
Castle v. Bullard, 23 Howard, 187. t Toof v. Martin, 13 Wallace, 40.
Coburn v. Proctor, 15 Gray, 38.
"Toof v. Martin, 13 Wallace, 40; Nary v. Merrill, 8 Allen, 452; Metcalf v. Munson, 10 Id. 491 ; Scammon v. Cole, 5 National Bankruptry Register, 269.

Dec. 1872.] RAILWAY COMPANY V. PRESCOTT.
Syllabus.

without corroboration would not be sufficient to establish
the alleged fact, and if so it cannot be doubted that circumstances in a case like the present are sufficient to put the
respondents upon inquiry, or even to show that they had
reasonable cause to,believe the alleged fact, that the conveyance was made in fraud of the Bankrupt Act. Their debt
had been overdue for two years, and throughout that period
they had pressed the insolvent debtor for payment, both in
person and through their agent, and it is not doubted that
if they had made the least inquiry they would have been as
successful as his other creditors were, a few days later, in
ascertaining that he was hopelessly insolvent. Beyond
doubt they knew that he had mortgaged his new brick store
and lot to his wife's father, and when he finally consented
to give them a mortgage on all or nearly all of his real
estate, they were fairly put upon inquiry, and having neglected to make such they are justly chargeable with all the
knowledge it is reasonable to suppose they would have acquired if they had performed their duty as required by law.
DECREE AFFIRMED.
[See the last preceding case, and also Buchanan v. Smith, aupra, p. 277.]

RAILWAY COMPANY V. PRESCOTT.

1. The proviso in the 21st section of the act of July 4th, 1864, amendatory
of the act of July 1st, 1862, to aid the Kansas Pacific Railway in the
construction of its road, requiring the prepayment of the cost of surveying, selecting, and conveying the lands, requires the prepayment as to
lands granted by the original act, as well as to those granted by the
amendatory one.
2. Although lands sold by the United States may be taxed before the government has parted with the legal title by issuing a patent, this principle
is to be understood as applicable' only to cases where the 74ght to the
patent is complete, and the equitable title fully vested without anything
more to be paid or any act done going to the foundation of the right.
8. Hence, where there has been a large grant (as ex. gr., to a great railroad
company to aid in the construction of its road), if prepayment by the

