318

RAILROAD CO. V. MANUFACTURING

Co.

[Sup.

Ct.

Syllabus.

and remedy are inseparable, and both are parts of the obligation which is guaranteed by the Constitution against impairment;
The obligation of a contract "is the law which binds the
parties to perform their agreement;"
Any impairment of the obligation of a contract-the degree of impairment is immaterial-is within the prohibition
of the Constitution;
The States may change the remedy, provided no substantial right secured by the contract is impaired. Whenever
such a result is produced by the act in question, to that extent it is void. The States are no more permitted to impair
the efficacy of a contract in this way than to attack its vitality
in any other manner. Against all assaults coming from that
quarter, whatever guise they may assume, the contract is
shielded by the Constitution. It must be left with the same
force and effect, including the substantial means of enforcement, which existed when it was made. The guarantee of
the Constitution gives it protection to that extent.*
The effect of these propositions upon the judgment before
us requires but a single remark. A clearer case of a law
impairing the obligation of a contract, within the meaning
of the Constitution, can hardly occur.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia is REVERSED, and the cause will be remanded to that court with
directions to enter a judgment of reversal, and then to proceed
IN

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

MANUFACTURING

COMPANY.

i. When goods are delivered to a common carrier to be transported over his
railroad to his depot in a place named, and there to be delivered to a
second line of conveyance for transportation further on, the commonlaw liability of common carriers remains on the first carrier until he has
*

Von Hoffman v. The City of Quincy, 4 Wallace, 535.

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD CO. v. MANUFACTURING

Co.

319

Statement of the case.
delivered the goods for transportation to the next one. His obligation,
while the goods are in his depot, does not become that of a wareheuseman.

2. The section in the charter of the Michigan Central Railroad Company,
providing that the company shall not be responsible for goods on deposit in any of their depots ,"awaiting delivey," does not include goods
in such depots awaiting iransportziiom;but refers to such goods alone
as have reached their final destination.
0. Although a common carrier may limit his common-law liability by
special contract assented to by the consignor of the goods, an unsigned
general notice printed on the back of a receipt does not amount to such
a contract, though the receipt with such notice on it may have been
taken by the consignor without dissent.
4. The court expresses itself against any further relaxation of the commonlaw liability of common carriers.

IN error to the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut; the case being thus:
In October, 1865, at Jackson, a station on the Michigan
Central Railroad, about seventy-five miles west of Detroit,
one Bostwick delivered to the agent of the Michigan Central Railroad Company, for transportation, a quantity of wool
consigned to the Mineral Springs Manufacturing Company,
at Stafford, Connecticut, and took a receipt for its carriage,
on the back of which was a notice that all goods and merchandise are at the risk of the owners while in the warehouses
of the company, unless the loss or injury to them should happen through the negligence of the agents of the company.
The receipt and notice were as follows:
"ICHIGAiN

CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY,

" JACKSON, October l1th, 1865.

"Received from V. X. Bostwick, as consignor, the articles
marked, numbered, and weighing as follows:
[Wool described.]
"To be transported over said railroad to the depot, in Detroit,
agent,, or order, upon the
And there to be delivered to -,
payment of the charges thereon, and subject to the rules and regulations established by the company, a part of which notice is
given on the back hereof. This receipt is not transferable.
HASTINGS,

"Freight Agent."

RAILROAD CO. V. MANUFACTURING Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The notice on the back was thus:
"The company will not be responsible for damages occasioned
by delays from storms, accidents, or other causes, . . . and all
goods and merchandise will be at the risk of the owners thereof
while in the company's warehouses, except such loss or injury as may
arise from the negligence of the agents of the company."
Verbal instructions were given by Bostwick that the wool
should be sent from Detroit to Buffalo, by lake, in steamboats, which instructions were embodied in a bill of lading
sent with the wool. Although there were several lines of
transportation from Detroit eastward by which the wool
could have been sent, there was only one transportation line
propelled by steam on the lakes, and this line was, and had
been for some time, unable, in their regular course of business, to receive and transport the freight which had accumulated in large quantities at the railroad depot in Detroit.
This accumulation of freight there, and the limited ability
of the line of propellers to receive and transport it, were
well known to the officers of the road, but neither the consignor, consignee, nor the station-master at Jackson, were
informed oil this subject. The wool was carried over the
road to the depot in Detroit, and remained there for a period
of six days, when it was destroyed by an accidental fire,
not the result of any negligence on the company's part.
During all the time the wool was in the depot it was ready
to be delivered for further transportation to the carrier upon
the route indicated.
In consequence of the loss the manufacturing company
sued the railroad company. The charter of the company,
which was pleaded and offered in evidence, contained a
section thus:
" The said company may charge and collect a reasonable sum
for storage upon all property which shall have been transported
by them upon delivery thereof at any of their depots, and which
shall have remained at any of their depots more than four days;
Provided, that elsewhere than at their Detroit depot, the consignee shall have been notified if known, either personally or by

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD

CO. -V.

MANUFACTURING

CO.

321

Statement of the ease.

notice left at his place of business or residence, or by notice sent
by mail, of the receipt of such property at least four days before
any storage shall be charged, and at the Detroit depot such no.
tice shall be given twenty-four hours (Sundays excepted) before
any storage shall be charged; but such storage may be charged
after the expiration of said twenty-four hour6 upon goods not
taken away; Provided, that in all cases the said company shall
be responsible for goods on deposit in any of their depots awaiting delivery, as warehousemen, and not as common carriers."
The controversy, of course, was as to the nature of tht
bailment when the fire took place. If the railroad companjl
were to be considered as warehousemen at the time tho
wool was burned, they were not liable in the action, as th t
fire which caused its destruction was not the result of an.
on the contrary, their duty a&
negligence oil their part. If,
carriers had not ceased at the time of the accident, and.
there were no circumstances connected with the transactioll
which lessened the rigor of the rule applicable to that employment, they were responsible; carriers being substantially insurers of the property intrusted to their care.
The court was asked by the railroad company to charge
the jury that its liability was the limited one of a warehouseman, importing only ordinary care. The court refused so
to charge, and, on the contrary, charged that the railroadt
company were liable for the wool as common carriers, during its transportation from Jackson to Detroit, and after its
arrival there, for such reasonable time as, according to their
usual course of business, under the actual circumstances in
which they held the wool, would enable them to deliver it
to the next carrier in the line, but that the manufacturing
company took the risk of the next carrier line not being
ready and willing to take said wool, and submitted it to the
jury to say whether under all the circumstances of the case
in evidence before them, such reasonable time had elapsed
before the occuirrence of the fire.
The jury, under the instructions of the court, found that
the railroad company were chargeable as carriers, and this
writ of error was prosecuted to reverse that decision.
voL. xvi.

21

322

IRAILROAD

CO. V. MANUFACTURING CO.

[Sup. CL

Argument for the carrier.

Mr. F. Chamberlin,for the plaintiff in error:
1. The railroad company was not liable even by the severe
rule of the common law, and independently of the proviso in
their charter, and of the notice.
The law on the subject is thus stated by Judge Story, in
his work on bailments:
"1If a carrier between A. and B. receives goods to be carried
from A. to B., and thence forwarded by a distinct conveyance
to C., as soon as he arrives with the goods at B. and deposits
them in his warehouse there, his responsibility as carrierceases,
for that is the termination of his duty as such. He then becomea
as to the goods a mere warehouseman, undertaking for their further
transportation." *
The language of the same book in another place is equally
pertinent and significant : t
' When the goods have arrived at the place of their fixed destination and are there deposited in the carrier's warehouse, to
await the convenience of the owner in sending for them, or for
the purpose of being forwarded by some other carrier to another
place, then his duty as carrier ends on the arrival of the goods
at his (the carrier's) warehouse, and his duty as warehouseman
commences."

There is no difference which is of substance to the manufactuAring company between goods to be delivered to the
owner at their final destination and goods deliverable to the
owner or his agent for further. carriage.
The controlling fact is, that the plaintiff's duty of carriage
is completed, and the goods are stored for the convenience
of the owner. The office of the plaintiffs is in both cases
the same, the carriage is the same, and the delivery to the
person entitled to receive them is the same in the one case
as in the other. If the goods are to go farther, by an independent line, the next carrier stands in place of the owner
*

See. 538.

t See. 448; and see Garside v. Trent Navigation Co., 4 Term, 581, and
51(,,ov. Michigan Central Railroad Co., 3 Michigan, 39.

Dec. 172.]

RAILROAD CO.

V. MANUFACTURING

0.

323

Argument for the carrier.

or consignee, so far as the first carrier is concerned, and as
soon as the function of carriage proper is performed, that is,
in this case, as soon as we place them in the depot "4ready
to be delivered" over, they are "awaiting delivery."
There was indeed, in this case, no offer to deliver, as
owing to their limited means of transportation, by the line
of propellers, any such offer would have been a useless act.
Lex nemi ren cogit ad vana.
If it be said that the railroad company knew of this inability of the line of propellers and should have not taken
this wool, the answer is that as common carriers, having,
themselves, ample means of carriage, the railroad company
could not have declined to receive any goods to be carried
so far as their line extended; that is to say, to Detroit.
They were bound to take the wool to that point.
2. But if liable by the rules of the old common law, still by
the very terms of the railroad company's charter, the company, while the wool should be in deposit in a depot "awaiting delivery," was not to be responsible as common carriers,
but only as warehousemen. Now, this case is that while
the wool was in the depot "ready to be delivered," &c., it was
destroyed. This brings matters within the terms of the
proviso, unlesswe raise a distinction-one which has no
foundation in reason-between a case in which the goods
are at the final terminus of their carriage, and this in which
they were to be delivered to another carrier, selected by the
defendant in error, for further carriage.
8. Independently of this, there was a notice, in plain
terms, to the consignor, and this was the condition of the
contract, that all goods and merchandise would be at the
risk of the owners thereof; while in the company's warehouses, except such loss or injury as might arise from the
negligence of the agents of the company. Now, the receipt
without dissent by a consignor of a bill of lading, by which
the carrier stipulates against liability for loss by fire, discharges the carrier from liability for such loss not caused
by his own negligence. And in an action against the carrier, evidence is not admissible, in the absence of fraud, to

324

RAILROAD

CO. V.

MANUFACTURING

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

show that the consignor did not read the terms of the bill
of lading.*
Since the case of York Compy. v. Central Railroad Co.,t in
this court, it can no longer be doubted that the common-law
liability of a carrier for the safe carriage of goods may be
limited and qualified by special contract with the owner,
provided that such special contract do not attempt to cover
losses by negligence or misconduct.
Mr. A. P. Hyde, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not necessary in the state of this record to go into,
the general subject of the duty of carriers in respect to goods
in their custody which have arrived at their final destination.
Different views have been entertained by different jurists of
what the carrier is required to do when the transit is ended
in order to terminate his liability, but there is not this difference of opinion in relation to the rule which is applicable
while the property is in process of transportation from the
place of its receipt to the place of its destination.
In such cases it is the duty of the carrier, in the absence
of any special contract, to carry safely to the end of his line
and to deliver to the next carrier in the route beyond. This
rule of liability is adopted generally by the courts in this
country, although in England, at the present time, and in
some of the States of the Union, the disposition is to treat
the obligation of the carrier who first receives the goods as
continuing throughout the entire route. It is unfortunate
for the interests of commerce that there is any diversity of
opinion on such a subject, especially in this country, but the
rule that holds the carrier only liable to the extent of his
own route, and for the safe storage and delivery to the next
carrier, is in itself so just and reasonable that we do not
hesitate to give it our sanction. Public policy, however,
requires that the rule should be enforced, and will not allow
*Grace v. A\dams, 100 2Vassachusetts, 505.

t 3 Wallace, 107.

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD CO. V. MANUFACTURING

Co.

325

Opinion of the court.

the carrier to escape responsibility on storing the goods
at the end of his route, without delivery or an attempt to
deliver to the connecting carrier. If there be a necessity
for storage it will be considered a mere accessory to the
transportation, and not as changing the nature of the bailment. It is very clear that the simple deposit of the goods
by the carrier in his depot, unaccompanied by any act indieating an intention to renounce the obligation of a carrier,
will not change or modify even his liability. It may be
that circumstances may arise after the goods have reached
the depot which would justify the carrier in warehousing
them, but if he had reasonable grounds to anticipate the.occurrence of these adverse circumstances when he received
the goods, he cannot by storing them change his relation
towards them.
Testing the case in hand by these well-settled principles,
it is apparent that the plaintiffs in error are not relieved of
their proper responsibility, unless through the provisions of
their charter, or by the terms of the receipt which was given
when they received the wool. They neither delivered nor
offered to deliver the wool to the propeller company. Nor
dIid they do any act manifesting an intention to divest them-.elves of the character of carrier and assume that of forwarder.
It is insisted that the offer to deliver would have been a
iseless act, because of the inability of the line of propellers,
w.vith their means of transportation, to receive and transport
he freight which had already accumulated at the MichiganCentral depot for shipment by lake. One answer to this
proposition is, that the company had no right to assume, in
discharge of its obligation to this defendant, that an offer to
deliver this particular shipment would have been met by a
refusal to receive. Apart from this, how can the company
set up, by way of defence, this limited ability of the propeller
line when the officers of the road knew of it at the time the
,contract of carriage was entered into, and the other party to
the contract had no information on the subject?
It is said, in reply to this objection, that the company

826

RAILROAD

CO.

V. MANUFACTURING

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

could not have refused to receive the wool, having ample
means of carriage, although it knew the line beyond Detroit
selected by the shipper was not at the time in a situation to
receive and transport it. It is true the company were obliged
to carry for all persons, without favor, in the regular course
of business, but this obligation did not dispense with a corresponding obligation on its part to inform the shipper of
any unavoidable circumstances existing at the termination
of its own route in the way of a prompt delivery to the carrier next in line. This is especially so when, as in this case,
there were other lines of transportation from Detroit eastward by which the wool, without delay, could have been
forwarded to its place of destination. Had the shipper at
Jackson been informed, at the time, of the serious hindrances at Detroit, to the speedy transit of goods by the
lake, it is fair to infer, as a reasonable man, be would have
given a different direction to his property. Common fairness requires that at least he should have been told of the
condition of things there, and thus left free to choose, if he
saw fit, another mode of conveyance. If this had been done
there would be some plausibility in the position that six days
was an unreasonable time to require the railroad company
to hold the wool as a common carrier for delivery. But
under the circumstances of this case the company had no
right to expect an earlier period for delivery, and cannot,
therefore, complain of the response of the jury to the inquiry
on this subject submitted to them by the Circuit Court.
It is earnestly argued that the plaintiffs in error are relieved from liability under a provision contained in one section of their charter,* if not by the rules of the common law.
But it is quite clear, on reading the whole section, that it
refers to property which has reached its final destination,
and is there awaiting delivery to its owner. If so, how can
the proviso in question be made to apply to another and distinct class of property? To perform this office it must act
independenty of the rest of the section, and enlarge, rather
Y See the section, suwra, pp. 320-321.-Rzr.

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD

CO.

V.

MANUFACTURING

CL.

327

Opinion of the court.

than limit, the operation of it. This it cannot do, unless
words are used which leave no doubt the legislature intended
such an effect to be given to it.
It is argued, however, that there is no difference between
goods to be delivered to the owner at their final destination
and goods deliverable to the owner, or his agent, for further
carriage. That in both cases, as soon as they are "ready to
be delivered" over, they are "awaiting delivery." This
position, although plausible, is not sound. There is a clear
distinction, in our opinion, between property in a situation
to be delivered over to the consignee on demand, and property on its way to a distant point to be taken thence by a
connecting carrier. In the former case it may be said to be
awaiting delivery; in the latter, to be awaiting transportaion. And this distinction is recognized by the Supreme
Court of Michigan in the case of the present plaintiffs in
error against Hale.* The court in speaking on this subject
say, "that goods are on deposit in the depots of the company,
either awaiting transportation or awaiting delivery, and that
the section (now under consideration) has reference only to
goods which have been transported and placed in the company's depots for delivery to the consignee." To the same
effect is a recent decision of the Court of Appeals of New
York,t in a suit brought to recover for the loss of goods by
the same fire that consumed the wool in this case, and which
were marked for conveyance by the same line of propellers
on Lake Erie.
It is insisted, however, by the plaintiffs in error, if they
are not relieved from liability as carriers by the provisions
of their charter, that the receipt taken by the consignor,,
without dissent, at the time the wool was received, discharges them The position is, that the unsigned noticer
printed on the back of the receipt is a part of it, and that,
taken together, they amount to a contract binding on the,
defendants in error.
6 Michigan, 243.

t

Mills v. Michigan Central Railroad Co., 45 New York, 626

328

RAILROhD

CO. V.

MANUFACTURING

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

This notice is general, and not confined, as in the section
,of the charter we have considered, to goods on deposit in
the depots of the company awaiting delivery. It is a distinct announcement that all goods and merchandise are at
the risk of the owners thereof while in the company's warehouses, except for such loss or injury as may arise from the
negligence of the agents of the company. The notice was,
doubtless, intended to secure immunity for all losses not
caused by negligence or misconduct during the time the
property remained in the depots of the company, whether for
transportation on their own line, or beyond, or for delivery
to consignees. And such will be its effect if the party taking
the receipt for his property is concluded by it. The question
is, therefore, presented for decision whether such a notice is
effectual to accomplish the purpose for which it was issued.
Whether a carrier when charged upon his common-law
responsibility can discharge himself from it by special contract, assented to by the owner, is not an open question in
this court since the cases of The New Jersey Steam Navigation
Company v. The Merchants' Bank,* and York Company v. Dentral 1Railroad.t In both these cases the right of the carrier
to restrict or diminish his general liability by special contract, which does not cover losses by negligence or misconduct, received the sanction of this court. In the former
ease the effect of a general notice by the carrier seeking
to extinguish his peculiar liability was also considered, and
although the remarks of the judge on the point were not
necessary to the decision of the case, they furnish a correct
exposition of the law on this much-controverted subject.
In speaking of the right of the carrier to restrict his obligation by a special agreement, the judge said: "It by no
means follows that this can be done by an act of his own.
The carrier is in the exercise of a sort of public office, from
which Le should not be permitted to exonerate himself without the assent of the parties concerned. And this is not to
be implied or inferred from a general notice to the public
* 6 Howard, 344.

t" 3 "Wallace, 107.

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD CO. V. MANUFACTURING

CO.

829

Opinion of the court.

limiting his obligation, which may, or may not, be assented
to. He is bound to receive and carry all the goods offered
for transportation, subject to all the responsibilities incident
to his employment, and is liable to an action in case of
refusal. If any implication is to be indulged from the
delivery of the goods under the general notice, it is as strong
that the owner intended to insist upon his rights and the
duties of the carrier, as it is that he assented to their qualification. The burden of proof lies on the carrier, and nothing short of an express stipulation by parol or in writing
should be permitted to discharge him from duties which the
law has annexed to his employment."
These considerations against the relaxation of the commonlaw responsibility by public advertisements, apply with equal
force to notices having the same object, attached to receipts
given by carriers on taking the property of those who employ them into their possession for transportation. Both
are attempts to obtain, by indirection, exemption from burdens imposed in. the interests of trade upon this particular
business. It is not only against the policy of the law, but a
serious injury to commerce to allow the carrier to say that
the shipper of merchandise assents to the terms proposed in
a notice, whether it be general to the public or special to a
particular person, merely because he does not expressly dissent from them. If the parties were on an equality in their
dealings with each other there might be some show of reason
for assuming acquiescence from silence, but in the nature of
the case this equality does not exist, and, therefore, every
intendment should be made in favor of the shipper when he
takes a receipt for his property, with restrictive conditions
annexed, and says nothing, that he intends to rely upon the
law for the security of his rights.
It can readily be seen, if the carrier can reduce his liability in the way proposed, he can transact business on any
terms he chooses to prescribe. The shipper, as a general
thing, is not in a condition to contend with him as to terms,
nor to wait the result of an action at law in case of refusal
to carry unconditionally. Indeed such an action is seldom

330

RAILROAD CO. V. MANUFACrURING

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

resorted to, on account of the inability of the shipper to delay sending his goods forward. The law, in conceding to
carriers the ability to obtain any reasonable qualification of
their responsibility by express contract, has gone as far in
this direction as public policy will allow. To relax still
further the strict rules of common law applicable to them,
by presuming acquiescence in the conditions on which they
propose to carry freight when they have no right to impose
them, would, in our opinion, work great harm to the business community.
The weight of authority is against the validity of the kind
of notices we have been considering.* And many of the
courts that have upheld them have done so with reluctance,
but felt themselves bound by previous decisions. Still they
have been continued, and this persistence has provoked
legislation in Michigan, where this contract of carriage was
made, and the plaintiffs in error have their 'existence. By
an act of the legislature passed after the loss in this case
occurred, it is declared "that no railroad company shall be
permitted to change or limit its common-law liability as a
common carrier by any contract or in any other manner, except by a written contract, none of which shall be printed,
which shall be signed by the owner or shipper of the goods
to be carried."t
It is fair to infer that this kind of legislation will not be
confined to Michigan, if carriers continue to claim exemption from common-law liability through the medium of
notices like the one presented in defence of this suit.
These views dispose of this case, and it is not necessary
to notice particularly the instructions which the court below
gave to the jury. If the court erred at all it was in charging more favorably for the plaintifl in error than the facts
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
of the case warranted.
* See 2 Parsons on Contracts, 238, note N, 5tb edition; and the A merican

note to Coggs v. Bernard, 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 7th American edition.
Redfield Law of Railways, p. 369; 3Mc2illan v. 3.

S. & N. I. R. R. Co., 16

Michigan, p. 109, and following.
t Statutes of Michigan, Compilation of 1871, p. 783,

2386.

