MCNITT v.

[Sup. Ct.

TURNER.

Syllabus.

to the interruption of prescription, and that this was decided
exclusively upon the principles of the jurisprudence of the
State.
The CHIEF JUSTICE:
No Federal question is referred to in the record or in the
opinion. We have, therefore, no jurisdiction of the case,*
and the writ of error must be
DISMISSED.

MCNITT v. TURNER.
1. Under the statute of Illinois authorizing the sale of the real estate of
a decedent, and directing the executor or admi istrator to make out
a petition to the county court " stating thereir what real estate the
said testator or intestate may have died seized oi" a statement of the
real estate which he died 1leaving" is a sufficient compliance with the
statute.
2. Where a statute of Illinois enacted that "1in all cases where an intestate
shall have been a non-resident or without a widow, &c., but having
property in the State, administration should be granted to the public
administrator of the proper county, and to no one else:" Held, that
where a person to whom letters of administration on the estate of a nonresident applied, under the statute referred to in the paragraph above,
to have a sale of his property, and the court, having jurisdiction of the
subject, ordered the sale, it would not be presumed that he was not the
public administrator.
8. Where, under the same statute (the one referred to in the first of the
above two paragraphs), an administrator gave public notice that he
meant to apply to have a power to sell the decedent's lnds, stating that
it belonged to him, and describing the several pieces in this way:
Township.

Parts of Sections.

S.E. 4
S.W. 24

......

iS........
3N........

Raoge.

4W.
8W.

"All the above lands being recordednorth or south of the base line, and east and
west of the fourth principal meridian."
And the petition prayed to sell the decedent's land, describing it as4W.
S.E. 4
......
is........
........
8W.
S.W. 24
......
3N.
Gibson v. Chouteau, 8 Wallace, 314; Worthy v. The Commissioners, 9
Id. 613; Northern Railroad v. The People, 12 Id. 384.

Dec. 1872.]

MONITT v. TURNER.

Statement of the case.
Held, that the notice was correct, and the description in the petition, aidedl
by the notice, sufficient.
4. A purchaser at judicial sale by an administrator, does not depend upon
a return by the administrator making the sale, of what he has done. If
the preliminary proceedings are correct, and he has the order of sale
and the deed, this is sufficient for him.
5. Where jurisdiction has attached, whatever errors may occur subsequently
in its exercise, the proceeding being coram judice, cannot be impeached
collaterally except for fraud.
6. A purchaser at a judicial sale is a "purchaser" within the recording acts,
of Illinois, enacting that unrecorded deeds shall take effect as to 1 subsequent purchasers" without notice, after the time for filing the same foL
record, and not before.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Illinois; the case being thus:
Turner, alleging that he "was possessed as of his own de.
mesne in fee" of the same, brought 4jeciment against McNitt
and another for a piece of land, "situate in the county of
Brown, and State of Illinois," and described as follows, to
wit:
"The southeast quarter of section four (4) in township one (1)
south, of range four (4) west in said county of Brown."
Both plaintiff and defendant admitted title in one Samuel

Spotts.
THE PLAINTIFF claimed through a decree of sale made on
prior proceedings, by the Circuit Court of Adams County,
Illinois, after Spotts's death. The validity of this title depended on the interpretation to be given to certain statutes,
and on the validity of a certain notice, thus:
A statute of Illinois, relating to wills, enacts :*
CcSECTION 51. In all cases where the intestate shall have been
a non-resident or without a widow, next of kin, or creditors in
this State, but having property within the State, administration
shall be granted to the public administratorof the proper county,
and to no other person."
Another enactment provides:
"SEcTroN 98. When any executor or administrator, whose
* Gales's Statutes of Illinois, 698.

VOL. X*I.

28

MCNITT v. TURNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

testator or intestate shall have died seized of any real estate in
this State, shall discover or suspect that the personal estate of
such testator or intestate is insufficient to pay the just claims
against his or her estate, such executor or administrator shall,
as soon as conveniently may be, make a just and true account
,of the said personal estate and debts, as far as he or she can
discover the same, and shall make out a petition to the Circuit
Court of the county in which administration shall have been granted, stating therein what real estate the saidtestator or intestate
died seized of, or so much thereof as will be necessary to pay his
or her debts as aforesaid, and to request the aid of the said court
in the premises."*
SECTION 104 provides that the court shall examine the allegations and proofs, and if it appear that the personal estate is
insufficient to pay the debts, the court shall direct the sale.
SECTION 105 provides that the conveyance made under the
order of sale shall be effectual against all claiming through the
intestate or his heirs.
SECTION 106 provides how the sales shall be made, imposes
a penalty for selling contrary thereto, and declares that no irregularity in the sale shall affect the validity of the title.
With these provisions in force, Archibald Williams, to
whom the probate justice for Adams County had granted,
November 24th, 1837, letters of administration on the estate
of Spotts, describing him as "of the city of New Orleans,
Louisiana," gave in the Quincy Whig, for four weeks (the
first publication being July 21st, 1838), the following
NOTICE.

"The subscriber, as administrator of the estate of Samuel
Spotts, deceased, will make application to the Circuit Court of
Adams County, and State of Illinois, at the next September
Term thereof, for leave to sell the following real estate, belonging to the said Samuel Spotts, or so much thereof as will be
sufficient to pay his debts, his personal estate being insufficient
to pay the same. All persons interested in said estate are re* Gales's Statutes of Illinois, 71: ; Revised Statutes of Illinois of 1845,
pp. 55,, 559,

103, 104, 105, 106.

McNi.TT V. TURNER.

Dec. 1872.]

Statement of the case.

quested to show cause, if any they have, why it should not be
sold for the purposes aforesaid.
Parts of Sections.
Township.
S.E. 4
......
15.
......
S.W. 24
......
3 N ........

Range.
4W.
8W.

S.W. 15

......

loN ........

3E.

S. E. 26
N.W.36
N.W.23
S.W. 7

......
......
......
......

13S........
4N ........
6N........
9N ........

2W.
6W.
7W.
5E.*

"All of the above land being recorded north or south of the
base line, and east and west of the fourth principal meridian.
A
.RCHIBALD. WILLTAm S
,"Administrator of Samuel Spotts, deceased."

The notice having been thus given, Williams presented a
petition or "bill" to the Circuit Court of the said county of
Adams, setting forth these letters, and setting forth that
Spotts had died intestate before the 1st of January, A.D.
1836, "leaving" in Illinois certain real estate described in
the copy of the inventory, marked Exhibit A, filed herewith.
[The inventory (purporting to be "an inventory of the
real estate belonging to the estate of Samuel Spotts, deceased,")
then set forth thirty-one quarter sections of land, described
in this style:
S.F.
4
S. W. 24
S.W. 15
S. E. 26
N.W. 86
.N.W. 23
S.W. 7

...... .is.
......
4W.
......
8.N ........
8W.
...... 10N .......
3E.
...... 138 .
......
2W.
......
4 N ........ 6W.
......
5N .......
7W.
....... 9 .....
56E.]

The petition or "bill" further set forth personal property
to the value of $5,and debts to the amount of $19,599, as
appeared by an account thereof, annexed, and it prayed an
order of sale of so much of the real property as would pay
the debts.
* There were ir1 all thirty-one quarter sections mentioned.
nere given, show the style of the notice herein

The sevem

McNITT V. TURNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The bill was exhibited against no one by name; no persons were made parties to it. Proof being made to the
court of the publication as above mentioned of the "Notice,"
the court, reciting "that it appeared to it that the allegations
in the said bill were true, and that due publication had been
made of the intention to apply to this court for permission
to sell the lands in the said bill mentioned," decreed, September
14th-its September Term-1838, a sale of them, or of so,
much as would pay the debts. The administrator made no
report of sales until the 30th of August, 1851. He then reported that he had, on the 17th day of June, 1839, in pursuance of the decree, sold thirty-one quarter sections of land,
one of which was the " S. E. 4, 1 S. 4 W.," which was reported as sold to one Hennen.
Through this sale and a chain of mesne conveyances, beginning with the heirs-at-law of Hennen, it was that the
plaintiff claimed.
It was proved that the premises were situated in what is
known as "The Military Bounty Tract."
THE DEFENDANT claimed through a deed (to one John Lucas), made in Spotts's lifetime, that is to say, through a
deed dated September 12th, 1820, which deed, however, had
not been recorded until January 2d, 1864. Whether the
deed was operative depended on the interpretation to be
given to a statute in force, alike when the deed was made,
when it was recorded, and now,* and which enacts:
" SECTION 22. Deeds and other instruments relating to or affecting title to real estate, shall be recorded in the county where
such real estate is situated."
"SECTION 23. All deeds, mortgages, or other instruments of
writing, which are required to be recorded, shall take effect and
be in force after the time of filing the same for record, and not
before, as to all creditors and subsequent purchasers, without notice, and all such deeds and title-papers shall be adjudged void
as to all such creditors and subsequent purchasers without notice,
until the same shall be filed for record."
* Revised Statutes of Illinois of 1845, 108.

Dec. 1872.]

D CNITT v.

TURNER.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The court charged that the plaintiff, Turner, had shown
title and was entitled to recover. The defendant excepted;
the exception being in this general form:
"To which opinion and decision of the court the defendant
then and there excepted at the time of the charge."
The defendants then asked the court to charge,
"(1.) That the deed from Spotts to Lucas and the subsequent
-deedsin that chain of title conveyed the fee of the premises in
question to McNitt.
"(2.) That the deed from Spotts to Lucas having conveyed
the premises to Lucas, Spotts did not die seized of them, and
that they were therefore not liable to be sold by his administra- tor for the payment of his debts, and that the decree of sale was
void.
"(3.) That Spotts having conveyed to Lucas before the proceeding in the Circuit Court of Adams County was instituted by
Williams, no title passed by the deed of Williams to Hennen, and
hence none by the subsequent mesne conveyances to Turner."
The court refused thus to charge, and the defendants
again excepted.
Verdict and judgment having gone for the plaintiff, the
defendants brought the case here.
Messrs. J. Grimshaw and 0. H. Browning,for the plaintff in
The proceeding in the court of Adams County was wholly
ex pare. It does not show who Spotts's heirs were, or where
they lived, or what their ages were. Though not stating
that he left none, it wholly ignores the existence of any.
No report of the sale was made until twelve years after it
was made, if it was ever made. Where the sale was made
is not stated. All this by way of preface to the argument.
1. The whole proceeding of converting realty into assets
is a statutory and extraordinary one, and very dangerous to
the rights of minors always.

The 98th section of the statute

relied on allows the sale by an administrator for debts only
where the intestate has died seized. Seizin is a condition

McNITT

v.

TURNER.

L~uP. Ct,

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

precedent: and of course it must ',e averred in the petition
that the party did die seized. Now1st. "Leaving" an estate is not equivalent to being
"seized" of it. There are many rights in land inferior to
Indeed, a party may be disseized and yet own
"seizin."
an estate, which he may recover by writ. Such an estate he
would "leave" though not seized of it; nay, though disseized of it. There is the greatest reason then for following
the words of the statute.
2d. But if" dying seized of land" were synonymous with
"leaving" it, how then ?
As a matter of fact, Spotts did not die leaving this land.
He had conveyed to Lucas years before he died. The fact
of his conveyance is not denied. It is no answer to say that
purchasers at judicial sale are "purchasers" within the
meaning of the 23d section of the act relating to the recording of deeds. Purchasers at properly conducted judicial
sales are; but not purchasers at judicial sales that are void.
Purchasers under the 98th section, authorizing administrators to make sale, are purchasers within the recording acts
only when the conditions which the statute prescribes for
such sale have existed. Seizin (or, if you please, for the
sake of the argument, "leaving") is here one condition.
But certainly when the sale was applied for, and even when
it was ordered and in process of being made, the condition
did not exist. Spotts had neither died "seized" of nor
"leaving" the land. How does the condition come into
existence, by the fall of the auctioneer's hammer and the
execution of the deed? It cannot so come into existence.
The attempted answer begs the whole question.
2. The intestate was a non-resident, a citizen of Louisiana. It does not appear that he had ever been in Illinois.
Now, the 51st section of the statute relating to wills is imperative, that in such a case the probate judge must do one
thing, and one thing only. He must grant administration
to the public administrator. Williams was not the public
administrator; though, as a matter of fact, it may be stated
that there was one at that time. Williams's letters were for

Dec. 1872.]

D.cNITT v.

TURNER.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

the administration of this estate alone. They were plainly
void under the statute.*
3. The only description given of the land in the petition,
the exhibit filed therewith, the notice, the decree of sale, the
report of sale in any of the papers connected with the case,
is as follows: "S. E. 4, 1 S. 4 W.," to which it is fair to add
the words, "in the State of Illinois," as the petition states
that Spotts "died intestate, leaving in this State the real
property described in the copy of the inventory marked
Exhibit A." It was decreed against by the same description; advertised for sale by the same description; and by
the same description 3old and reported by the administrator.
Now, by what right does the purchaser of the "S. E. 4, 1
S. 4 W.," in the State of Illinois, claim the "southeast
quarter of section four, in township one south, range four
west, in Brown County, Illinois ?"
No base-line, meridian, or county-is mentioned in the description of the land in the proceedings in the AdamA Circuit
Court, though it is said that they are "recorded north or
south of the base-line," &c. But the court will take judicial
notice that there are, in Illinois, different base-lines and meridians, and that there is a quarter section of land in Brown
County and another in Washington County which equally
-nswers to the description given in the petition, and other
proceedings, viz.: "S. E. 4, 1 S.4 W., in the State of Illinois." Which was intended, the court cannot tell. There is
an ambiguity; but, as it was not raised by evidence, it cannot
be removed by evidence. It is inherent in the description,
is patent, and the decree and the sale are alike. void.t
Messrs. Skinner, Marsh, and .Frost, contra.
Mr Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Illinois.
* Case of the Marshalsea, 10 Reports, 76; Wales v. Willard, 2 Massa.

chusetts, 120.
t White v. Herman, 51 Illinois, 244.

McINITT

v.

TURNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

The defendant in error brought two separate actions of
ejectment in the court below, one against each of the plain.
tiffs in error. They were landlord and tenant, and by consent of the parties the actions were consolidated. The plaintiff recovered the premises in controversy. The defendants
thereupon brought this writ of error.
The chain of title relied upon by the respective parties
was as follows: Turner gave in evidence a patent from the
United States to Louis F. Lefay, dated October 23d, 1818;
a deed from Lefay to Samuel Spotts, dated December 19th,
1818, and recorded in the proper county March 22d, 1820;
the proceedings of the Circuit .Court of Adams County, in
Illinois, touching a. decree of sale made by that court upon
the application of Archibald Williams as the administrator
of Spotts, and a sale made accordingly; a deed by the administrator to Duncan N. Hennen, the purchaser, dated June
17th, 1839, recorded April 3d, 1841; and a chain of mesne
conveyances extending from the heirs-at-law of Hennen
down to Turner, the plaintiff in the court below.
The defendants gave in evidence a deed from Spotts to
John Lucas, dated September 12th, 1820, recorded January
2d, 1864, and a sequence of deeds from Lucas down to McNitt, one of the plaintiffs in error. Mc~itt was in possession of the premises.
The court instructed the jury that Turner had shown
title, and was entitled to recover. To this the defendants
excepted.
The defendants then asked the court to instruct the jury:
That the deed from Spotts to Lucas and the subsequent
deeds in that chain of title conveyed the fee of the premises
to McNitt.
That the deed from Spotts to Lucas having conveyed the
premises to Lucas, Spotts did not die seized of them, that
they were therefore not liable to be sold by his administrator
for the payment of his debts, and that the decree of sale was
void.
That Spotts having conveyed to Lucas before the proceeding in the Circuit Court of Adams County was instituted by

Dec. 1872.]

MCoTITT V. TURNER.
Opinion of the court.

Williams, no title passed by the deed of Williams to Hennen,
and hence none by the subsequent mesne conveyances to
Turner.
These instructions the court refused to give, and the defendants excepted.
A few remarks will be sufficient to dispose of this exception. All the instructions relate to the deed of Spotts to
Lucas.
The decree of sale was made by the court at the September term, 1838. The sale to Hennen was made on the 17th
of June, 1839. The deed of Williams to him was made on
the 17th of June, 1839, and recorded April 3d, 1841. The
deed of Spotts to Lucas, though made on the 12th of September, 1820, was not recorded until January 2d, 1864.
The 22d section of statute of Illinois, in force at both these
periods and still in force, provides that "deeds and other
instruments relating to or affecting title to real estate shall
be recorded in the county where such real estate is situated."
The next section is as follows: "Sec. 23. All deeds, mortgages, or other instruments of writing, which are required
to be recorded, shall take effect and be in force after the
time of filing the same for record, and not before as to all
creditors and subsequent purchasers, without notice, and all
such deeds and title-papers shall be adjudged void as to all
such creditors and subsequentpurchaserswithout notice until the
same shall be filed for record."
The term "purchasers" as used in this statute includes
purchasers at judicial sales. A deed not filed for record is
as to them wholly without effect. It is in all respects, so far
as they are concerned, as if it did not exist. The maxim
applies, De non apparentibus et de non existentibus eadem est
ratio.*
Seizin was originally the completion of the feudal investiture. In American jurisprudence it means, generally, own4 Martin v. Dryden, 1 Gilman, 187; Curtis v. Root, 28 Illinois, 367; Cook
v. Hall, 1 Gilman, 575; see also Choteau v. Jones, 11 Illinois, 300; Kennedy
v. Northrup, 15 Id. 148; Brookfield v. Goodrich, 32 Id. 363.

862

McNITT v. TURNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ership. The covenant of seizin and the covenant of right to
convey are synonymous.*
The deed from Spotts to Lucas cannot affect any question
arising iii the case, and must be excluded from consideration.
All the instructions asked by the plaintiffs in error assumed
its efficacy for the purposes to which they referred. The
instructions were therefore properly refused.
It is assumed in the assignment of errors and in the
printed arguments of the learned counsel for the plaintiffs
in error, that the admission in evidence of the record from
the Circuit Court of Adams County, was objected to, the
objection overruled, and exception taken. No such exception appears in the record.
In an action of ejectment the plaintiff must recover, if at
all, upon the strength of his own title. The weakness of his
adversary's cannot avail him.
The only exception which remains to be considered is to
the charge of the court, that the plaintiff had shown title in
fee and was entitled to recover. That exception is thus set
out in the record: "To which opinion and decision of the
court the defendant then and there excepted, at the time of
the said charge." The chain of the plaintiff's title, as exhibited on the trial, consisted of many links. The exception,
should have pointed out specifically the link or links deemed
defective, and in what the defect was supposed to consist, in
order that the court might be duly notified and have an op
portunity to correct the error, if any, into which it had fallen.
The exception is insufficient. But this objection has not
been insisted upon by the counsel for the defendant in error.
We shall, therefore, consider the case- as if the exception
were sufficiently full and specific to meet the requirements
of the rule upon the subject.
The objections taken to the title of the defendant in error
are all confined to the judicial proceedings touching the sale
by the administrator. Those objections, so far as it is necessary to cotisider them, areRawle on Covenants for Title, 34; Browning v. Wright, 2 Bosanquet &
Puller, 14; 1 Washburn on Real Property, 35.

Dec. 1872.]

MC-ITT

v.

TURNER.

Opinion of the court.

That the seizin of Spotts, at the time of his decease, is
neither averred nor shown; and that the contrary appears.
That the authority to sell was given to Williams, the administrator, specially appointed, when the general administrator for the county should have been appointed, and the
authority given to him; and that the description of the
premises in the petition of the administrator is insufficient
and a nullity.
It is insisted that these defects are jurisdictional, and that
the proceeding was coram non judice and void.
The petition sets forth "that the said Samuel Spotts heretofore, to wit, before the first day of January, A.D. 1836,
died, leaving in this State the real property described in the
copy of the inventory marked ' Exhibit A,' filed herewith."
The term leaving, used in this connection, is the synonym of
owning. It is idiomatic rather than dialectic, and is believed
to obtain in this sense throughout the country where, so applied. This is sufficient. Such a petition need not follow
the language of the statute and be drawn with the accuracy
of an indictment. Nothing is required but the substance of
what is necessary to be stated, intelligibly expressed. The
deed of Spotts to Lucas is relied upon to disprove the seizin.
That deed, we have shown, can have no such effect. The
record of deeds in the proper office, as it stood, showed the
seizin of the decedent, and that was sufficient. No one was
bound to look further, and it was conclusive upon all concerned.
It does not appear that Williams was not the public administrator, and if he were not, that there was any such
officer for Adams County at that time. If there was not,
the appointment of Williams was proper. Error must be
shown. It is not to be inferred, except where the inference
is inevitable. Everything consistent with the record which
would have warranted the appointment, will be presumed
to have existed and to have been found and acted upon by
the court.* Acts done which presuppose the existence of
* Conrad Schnell et al. v. The City of Chicago, 38 Illinois, 382.

M

NCITT v. TURNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

other acts, to make them legally operative, are presumptive
proofs of the latter.* These views render it unnecessary to
consider the construction of the statute contended for by the
counsel for the defendant in error, whereby, in effect, and
would be substituted for "o ;"'and also the question whether
the statute, not declaring an appointment made contrary to
its provisions void, is not merely directory.t It was certainly within the jurisdiction of the court to decide both
these points. The form of the letters issued to the general
administrator, and to other persons when appointed, is the
same.1
It is insisted that the description contained in the petition
is so defective by reason of the omission to name the meridian
east or west of which the land is situated, that its terms are
equally applicable to another tract in another county. Admitting this to be so, it is averred in the petition, and shown
by the evidence, that the tract in question belonged to Spotts,
while no such fact appears as to the other tract, and it is not
pretended that it exists. This is sufficient. The decree
finds all the allegations of the petition to be true. Proof of
the ownership by Spotts of the tract sold was admissible to
locate the description upon the proper premises, and to remove the ambiguity which was found to exist. In the case
of Dougherty v. Purdy,§ as in this case, the meridian was
omitted in the description, and the ambiguity was the same
as here.
The land is correctly described in the schedule attached
to the notice of the intended application to the court for authority to sell. This might be resorted to, if necessary, to
supply the defect in the petition subsequently filed.11 It will
be presumed that the land described in the petition is the
game with that described in the notice, as the descriptions
harmonize as far as the formet extends. Under certain eir
Bank of the United States v. Dandridge, 12 Wheaton, 70.
t Sedgwick on Statutory and Common Law, 368.
$ Gales's Statutes, 702, sec. 6218 Illinois, 207.
11Schnell v.Chicago, 38 Illinois, 383.

Dec. 1872.]

MC-{ITT v. TURNER.
Opinion of the court.

cumstances an averment fatally defective in a declaration
may be remedied by a fuller averment in the replication.*
It was proved upon the trial of this case that the premises
are situated in the Military Bounty Tract. We take judicial
notice of the fact that this entire tract is situated between
the Illinois and Mississippi Rivers, and all of it west of the
fourth principal meridian. This also identifies the land in
question.t The judicial proceedings are not defective in
the particular under consideration.
The deed of the administrator to Hennen, made pursuant
to the sale, is correct. :No exception was taken to it. The
fact that the report of the sale by the administrator, found
in the clerk's office after his death, was not filed, approved,
and recorded until the 80th of May, 1851, is unimportant.
In Wheaton v. Sexton,j there had been a sale under execution
and a deed by the marshal. The execution was never returned. This court said: "The purchaser depends upon
the judgment, the levy, and the deed. All other questions
are between the parties to the judgment and the marshal.
Whether the marshal sells before or after the return, whether he makes a correct return or any return at all to the
writ, is immaterial to the purchaser, provided the writ was
duly issued and the levy made before the return."
The notice was correct.§ This has not been seriously
questioned. The word "recorded" in the sentence at the
foot of the list of lands is evidently a misprint for situated.
It may be so read or regarded as surplusage. In either case
the effect will be the same.
But there is a comprehensive and more conclusive answer
to all the objections to the sale which have been considered,
and to others suggested which have not been adverted to.
Upon the filing of the notice with the proof of publication,
and the subsequent filing of the petition of the administrator
for authority to sell, the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of
the case. NSo presumption on that subject is necessary.
* Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, 18 Howard, 405.

f White v. Herman, 51 Illinois, 245.
I Goudy v. Hall, 36 Illinois, 313.

4 Wheaton, 503.

366

TAYLOR

v.

[Sup. Ct.

TAINTOR.

Syllabus.

Jurisdiction is authority to hear and determine. It is an
axiomatic proposition that when jurisdiction has attached,
whatever errors may subsequently occur in its exercise, the
proceeding being coramjudice, can be impeached collaterally
only for fraud. In all other respects it is as conclusive as if
it were irreversible in a proceeding for error. The order of
sale before us is within this rule. Grignon's Lessee v. Astor
el al.* was, like this, a case of a §ale by an administrator.
In that case this court said: "The purchaser under it is not
bound to look beyond the decree. If there is error in it of
the most palpable kind, if the court which rendered it have,
in the exercise of jurisdiction, disregarded, misconstrued, or
disobeyed the plain provisions of the law which gave them
the power to hear and determine the case before them, the
title of the purchaser is as much protected as if the adjudication would stand the test of a writ of error; and so where
an appeal is given, but not taken, in the time allowed by
law." This case and the case of Voorhees v. The Bank of the
United Statest are the leading authorities in this court upon
the subject. Other and later cases have followed and been
controlled by them. Slow v. Kimball$ affirms the same doc-

trine.

JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

TAYLOR V. TAINTOR, TREASURER.
1. When the bail of a party arrested by order of a State court of one State
on information for a crime, and released from custody under his own
and his bail's recognizance that he will appear at a day fixed and abide
the order and judgment of the court on process from which he has been
arrested, have suffered him to go into another State, and while there he
is, after the forfeiture of the recognizance, delivered up (under the second section of the fourth article of the Constitution and the act of February 12th, 1793, passed to give effect to it) on the requisition of the
governor of a third State for a crime committed (without the knowledge of the bail) in it,and is tried, convicted, and imprisoned in such
third State, the bail are not discharged from liability on their recogni* 2 Howard, 341.

t 10 :Peters, 449.

t28 Illinois, 93.

