MITCHELL V. HAWLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

ment is the best he could make for the interest of the
estate, and that the payment will be made in due time."
The judge on the trial seemed to treat this statement as a
clear admission of a sale; whereas in our judgment it was
equally consistent with a mere liquidation of accounts; and
the witness, Elkins, who was called to testify as to Beall's

conversations, was obliged to admit that Beall had never
told him that it was a sale, but that be, the witness, only inferred that it was such. The testimony of this witness, and
the inventory and accounts of the executor being all the
material evidence on the subject, ought to have been left to
the jury, as well as the evidence relating to the executor's
negligence.
Regarding the transaction as clearly a sale, the judge instructed thejury that the administrator had rendered himself
liable for the whole claim by not taking security for its payment; whereas, if it was merely a liquidation of the accounts
he would only be liable for negligence (if under the circumstances of the case he was guilty of negligence) in enforcing
the claims of the estate against the surviving partners.
However, the errors which lie at the foundation of the
action preclude further trial, and require that the judgment
should be unconditionally REVERSED, with directions to
DIsmISs

MITCHELL

v.

THE PETITION.

HAWLEY.

a patentee of certain machines, whose original patent had still between six
and seven years to run, conveyed to another person the "1right to make

and use and to license to others the right to make and use four of the
machines 7,in two States "during

the remainder of the original term

of the letters-patent, provided, that the said grantee shall not in any way
or form dispose of, sell, or grant any license to use the said machines
beyond the said term." The patent having, towards the expiration of the
original term, been extended for seven years, held, that an injunction
by a grantee of the extended term would lay to restrain the use of the
four machines, they being in use after the term of the original patent
had expired.

Dec. 1872.]

MITCHELL V. HAWLEY.
Statement of the case.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts; the case being thus:
The 18th section of the Patent Act of July 4th, 1836,*
after enacting that patents may in certain cases be extended,
and that "thereupon the said patent shall have the same
effect in law as though it had been originally granted for
the term of twenty-one years," adds:

"And the benefit of such renewal shall extend to assigneeg
and grantees of the right to use the thing patented to the ex
tent of their respective interests therein."
With this statutory enactm~ent in force the United States,
on the 3d of May, 1853, granted a patent to one Taylor foq
fourteen years for improved machinery in felting hats, the
patent lasting, of course, till May 3d, 1867.
While the patent was in force, that is to say on the 19th
of November, 1860, Taylor, by deed reciting that one Bayley was "desirous of obtaining the exclusive right to make
and use, and license to others the right to use the said
machines in the States of Massachusetts and New Hampshire," "conveyed to the said Bayley" certain rights, as
follows:
"The exclusive right to make and use, and to license to others
the right to use the said machines in the said States of Massachusetts and New Hampshire, and in no other place or places,
during the remainder of the original term of said letters-patent.
Provided, that the said Bayley shall not in any way or form dispose
of, sell, or grant any license to use the said machines beyond the 3d
day of May,A.D.1867.
"Should the said letters-patent be extended beyond the 3d
of May,A.D. 1867, then itisagreed that the said Bayley shall
have the right to control the same inthe said States of Massachusetts and New Hampshire, provided that he shall pay to the
said grantor or his heirs or assigns, a fair and reasonable compensation for the same, or on terms as favorable as may be offered by any other person or party."
* 5 Stat. at Large, 125.

VOL. XVI.

35

MITCHELL V. HAWLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

In possession of this license Bayley, on the 18th of March,
1864, in consideration of $1200, licensed one Mitchell and
others of the town of Haverhill, Massachusetts, to run and
use two sets (four machines) for felting hats, in said town
of Haverhill, under Taylor's patent bearing date May 3d, A.D.
1864.
Before the patent expired (May 3d, 1867) the Commissioner of Patents renewed and extended it for the further
term of seven years; and one Hawley, having become the
owner of this extended term for the States of Massachusetts
and New Hampshire, filed a bill against Mitchell and the
others to restrain them from using the four machines which
Bayley on the 18th of March, 1864, had given them license
to use, it being admitted that the said Mitchell et al. were
now using those identical machines.
The court below granted the injunction, and the defendants took this appeal.
Mr. F. A. Brooks, for the appellant, relying on Bloomer v.
Millinger,* and on the 18th section of the Patent Act, contended that a sale of machines by the patentee himself operated to take the thing sold out of the reach of the Patent Act
altogether, and that as long as the machines themselves
lasted, the owner could use them.
Mr. J. E. Manadier, contra, argued that here the right to
make and use, and to license to others the right to use, was
expressly limited as to duration by apt words, showing
clearly an intent that it should not survive the original term
of the patent; that this was a perfectly lawful sort of contract, and therefore that the rights must expire with that
term; for that neither the 18th section of the Patent Act nor
anything laid down in Bloomer v. Millinger was applicable.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Patentees acquire by their letters-patent the exclusive
right to make and use their patented inventions and to
* 1 Wallace, 851.

:Dec. 1872.]

MITCHEtL

v.

HAWLEY.

Opinion of the court.

vend the same to others to be used for the period of time
;pecified in the patent, but when they have made one or
more of the things patented, and have vended the same to
,others to be used, they have parted to that extent with their
,exclusive right, as they are never entitled to but one royalty
for a patented machine, and consequently a patentee, when
he has himself constructed a machine and sold it without
any conditions, or authorized another to construct, sell, and
dieliver it, or to construct and use and operate it, without
any conditions, and the consideration has been paid to him
for the thing patented, the rule is well established that the
patentee must be understood to have parted to that extent
with all his exclusive right, and that he ceases to have any
interest whatever in the patented machine so sold and delivered or authorized to be constructed and operated.
Where such circumstances appear, the owner of the ma-chine, whether he built it or purchased it, if he has also
acquired the right to use and operate it during the lifetime
-of the patent, may continue'to use it until it is worn out, in
-spite of any and every extension subsequently obtained by
the patentee or his assigns.*
Patents were granted, under the prior Patent Act, for the
term of fourteen years, but the provision was that a patentee
in certain cases might have the term extended for seven
years from and after the expiration of the first term, and
the same section provided that the benefit of such renewal
-shall extend to assignees and grantees of the right to use
the thing patented to the extent of their respective interests
therein, which last provision has frequently been misunder-stood. Such misapprehension has usually arisen from a
failure to keep in view the well-founded distinction between
the grant and the right to make and vend the patented ma-chine, and the grant of the right to use'it, as was first satisfactorily pointed out by the late Chief Justice Taney with
his accustomed clearness and precision.t
* Bloomer v. Millinger, 1 Wallace, 350.

t Bloomer v. McQuewan, 14 Howard, 549; Chaffee v. Boston Belting Co.,

22 Id.223.

MITCHELL V.

HAWLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

Purchasers of the exclusive privilege of making or vending the patented machine hold the whole or a portion of the
franchise which the patent secures, depending upon the nature of the conveyance, and of course the interest which the
purchaser acquires terminates at the time limited for its continuance by the law which created the franchise, unless it is
expressly stipulated to the contrary. But the purchaser of
the implement or machine for the purpose of using it in the
ordinary pursuits of life stands on different grounds, as he
does not acquire any right to construct another machine
either for his own use or to be vended to another for any
purpose. Complete title to the implement or machine purchased becomes vested in the vendee by the sale and purchase, but he acquires no portion of the franchise, as the
machine, when it rightfully passes from the patentee to the
purchaser, ceases to be within the limits of the monopoly.
Patented implements or machines sold to be used in the
ordinary pursuits of life become the private individual property of the purchasers, and are no longer specifically protected by the patent laws of the State where the implementsor machines are owned and used. Sales of the kind may
be made by the patentee with or without conditions, as in
other cases, but where the sale is absolute, and without any
conditions, the rule is well settled that the purchaser may
continue to use the implement or machine purchased until
it is worn out, or he may repair it or improve upon it as he
pleases, in same manner as if dealing with property of anyother kind.
Letters-patent were granted to James F. Taylor for new
and useful improvements in machinery for felting hats, bearing date the third of May, 1853, securing to him the exclusive right to make and use and to vend to others the right
to make and use the said machines for the term of fourteen
years from the date of the letters-patent. Due conveyance
or license, subject to certain restrictions and limitations, was
made by the patentee of the exclusive right to make and
use "and to license to others the right to use the said machines'

Dec. 1872.]

MITCHELL V. HAWLEY.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

in the States of Massachusetts and New Hampshire, duringthe
remainder of the original term of said letters-patent, it being
expressly stipulated in the instrument of conveyance that
the licensee "shall not, in any way, or form, dispose of, sell, or
grant any license to use the -said machines beyond the expiration" of the original term. Apart from that the patentee
also stipulated that the said licensee, if the patent should be
extended, should have the right to control the same in those
two States, he paying to the grantors in his license, or their
heirs and assigns, a fair and reasonable compensation for
the same, on terms as favorable as may be offered to any
other person or party. Bayley, as such licensee, on the
eighteenth of March, 1864, constructed four machines, being
two sets, and sold the machines, "with the right to run"
the sarhe, to the grantors of the respondents, for the sum of
twelve hundred dollars, executing to the purchasers at the
same time a license under his hand and seal, authorizing
the purchasers, as such licensees, "to ran and use two sets
(four machines) for felting hats, in said town of Haverhill,
under Taylor's patent, bearing date as specified in the original letters-patent," showing conclusively that the purchasers
were referred to the original letters-patent as the source of
his authority. Of course said letters-patent expired on the
third of May, 1867, and the record shows that the commis-sioner, before the term expired, renewed the letters-patent
-.ud extended the same for the further term of seven years
Irom the expiration of the original term, and that the com,)lainants having become by certain mesne conveyances, duly
recorded, the exclusive assignees of the right, title, and interest in the renewed letters-patent for those two States, instituted the present suit to restrain the respondents from
usihg the four machines which they or their grantors purchased of the licensee under the original letters-patent.
They appeared to the suit and filed an answer setting up as
a defence to the charge of infringement that they are by
law authorized to continue to use the four machines just the
same under the extended letters-patent as they had the right
to do under the original patent, when the purchase was made

MITCHELL V. HAWLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

by those under whom they claim, which is the only question
in the case.
No one in general can sell personal property and convey
a valid title to it unless he is the owner or lawfully represents the owner. Neno dat quod non habet. Persons, therefore, who buy goods from one not the owner, and who does
not lawfully represent the owner, however innocent they
may be, obtain no property whatever in the goods, as no
one can convey in such a case any better title than he owns,
unless the sale is made in market overt, or under circumstances which show that the seller lawfully represented the
owner.*
Argument to show that the grantor under whom the respondents claim never acquired the right to sell the machines
and give their purchasers the right to use the same in the
ordinary pursuits of life beyond the term of the original
patent is certainly unnecessary, as the instrument of conveyance from the patentee to him, which describes all the
title he ever had, expressly stipulates that he shall not in
any way or form dispose of, sell, or grant any license to use
the said machines beyond the expiration of that term of the
patent, and the form of the license which he gave to the
purchasers shows conclusively that he understood that he
was not empowered to give a license which should extend
beyond that limitation. Notice to the purchaser in such a
case is not required, as the law imposes the risk upon the
purchaser, as against the real owner, whether the title of the
seller is such that he can make a valid conveyance. Certain exceptions undoubtedly exist to that rule, but none of
them have any application to this case. Suppose the rule
was otherwise, and that the real owner, in order to defeat the
* Foxley's Case, 5 Coke, 109 a; 2 Blackstone's Commentaries, 449; 2 Kent,
11th ed. 224; Williams v- Merle, 11 Wendell, 80; Stone v. Marsh, 6 Barnewall & Creswell, 551; Marsh v. Keating, 1 Bingham, New Cases, 198; Marsh

v. Keating, 2 Clarke & Finelly, 250; Benjamin on Sales, 4; White v. Spettigue, 13 Meeson & Welsby, 603; 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 7th edition, 1195;
1 Parson's Con., 5th ed. 520.

Dec. 1872.]

MARSHALL V. KNOX.

Syllabus.

title of the purchaser, must show that the latter knew what
the facts were, the court would still be of the opinion thai
the decree ought to be affirmed, as the terms of the license
which the seller gave to the purchasers were sufficient to
put them upon inquiry, and it is quite obvious that the
means of knowledge were at hand, and that if they had
made the least inquiry they would have ascertained that
their grantor could not give them any title to use the machines beyond the period of fourteen years from the date of
the original letters-patent, as he was only a licensee and
never had any power to sell a machine so as to withdraw it
indefinitely from the operation of the franchise secured by
the patent.
DEOREE

AFFIRMED.

MARSHALL V. KNOX.
1. The District Court sitting in bankruptcy has no jurisdiction to proceed by
rule to take goods seized, before any act of bankruptcy by the lessees, for
rent due by them in Louisiana, under "a writ of provisional seizure "and then in the hands of the sheriff, and held by him as a pledge for the
payment of rent due-out of his hands, and to deliver them to the assignee
in bankruptcy to be disposed of under the orders of the bankrupt court;
neither the sheriff nor the lessor having been parties to the proceedings
in bankruptcy nor served with process to make them such.
2. The Circuit Court may under the second section of the Bankrupt Act entertain on bill as an original proceeding, a case thus involving a question of adverse interest in goods so seized.
8. Under the Civil Code of Louisiana, a lessor has a right to seize, for rent
in arrears, goods on the premises, and until he is paid his rent, retain
them as against an assignee in bankruptcy subsequently occurring.
4. In such a case where the goods have been taken out of his hands and
given to the assignee in bankruptcy, by an order of the District Court
acting summarily and without jurisdiction, and sold by such assignee,
the Circuit Court, having got possession of the case by bill filed by the
lessor, to be regarded as one in an original proceeding, will proceed and
decide the whole controversy.
5. And it will give the lessor the full value of the goods sold clear of all
expenses, whether the assignee obtained that value or not (limited, of
course, by the amount of rent which he is entitled to have paid to him),
and also to all the taxable costs to which he has been put by the litiga-

