Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. COUNTY OF OToE.

667

Statement of the case.

stituents, cannot be cast upon the bond fide creditors of the
township.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER and Mr. Justice FIELD did not sit
in this case.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. COUNTY OF OTOE.
1. Unless restrained by a constitutional prohibition of some sort, the legislature of a State may properly authorize a county to aid, by issuing its
bonds, and giving them as a donation to a railroad company, the construction of a road outside of the county and even outside of the State,
if the purpose of the road be to give to the county a connection which
is desirable with some other region.
2. There is no such prohibition on the legislature in the constitution of Nebraska.
8. A legislative act prescribing the mode in which counties shall issue their
bonds, is but the act of one legislature; and accordingly a special act
giving to a county a right to issue their bonds in disregard of the ordi.
nary legislative provisions, authorizes such last-named sort of issue.

ON certificate of division from the Circuit Court of Nebraska; the case being thus:
An act of the Territorial legislature of Nebraska, approved
January 1st, 1861, enacted:
"That the commissioners of any county should have power
to submit to the people of any county at any regular or special
election, the question whether the county will aid or construct
any road; and said commissioners may aid any enterprise designed for the benefit of the county as aforesaid, whenever a
majority of the people thereof shall be in favor of the proposition as provided in this section.
"When the question submitted involves the borrowing or
expenditure of money, the proposition of the question must be
accompanied by a provision to lay a tax for the payment thereof,
in addition to the usual taxes under section sixteen of this chap* Maclae v. Sutherland, 25 English Law and Equity, 114.

668

RAILROAD COMPANY V. COUNTY OF OTOF.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ter; and no vote adopting the question proposed shall be valid,
unless it likewise adopt the amount of tax to be levied to meet

the liability incurred."
This Territorial act being in force, the county clerk of
Otoe County, one Bennett, issued the following call:
11In pursuance of the authority in me vested by law, I hereby
call a meeting of the commissioners of Otoe County, to be held
at their usual place of meeting in Nebraska City, of said county,
on Saturday, the 24th day of February, A. D. 1866, to take into
consideration the question of submitting to the people of said
county the issue of the bonds of said county, not exceeding
$200,000 in amount, to be used in procuring to said county an
eastern railroad connection.
"IELISHA BENNETT,

"1County Clerk."

In pursuance of this notice, the county commissioners
met and ordered an election to be held on the 17th day of
March, 1866. The order for this election was as follows:
,It is ordered that an election be held on the 17th day of
March, 1866, in and throughout the county of Otoe, N. T., for
the purpose of ascertaining whether the commissioners of Otoe
County shall issue bonds not to exceed $200,000, for the purpose
of securing an eastern railroad connection for Nebraska City,

N. T."
An election was held accordingly, and at it 1362 votes
were cast in favor of the said proposition, and 201 votes cast
against it.
The Council Bluffs and St. Joseph Railroad Company
having built a railroad from Council Bluffs, in Iowa, to St.
Joseph in Missouri, near Nebraska City, $40,000 of the
bonds of Otoe County, so as aforesaid voted for, were issued
to it; the said bonds having been issued to secure an eastern
railroad connection, and the same having been secured by
way of St. Joseph and by way of Council Bluffs.
After this, that is to say, in February, 1867, Nebraska was
admitted into the Union; and adopted a constitution of government. That constitution thus ordains:

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. COUNTY OF OTOE.

669,

Statement of the case.

"The legislative authority of the State shall be vested in a
General Assembly, which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.
"The property of no person shall be taken for public use
-without just compensation.
"The credit of the State shall never be given or bound in aid
of any individual association or corporation.
"For the purpose of defraying extraordinary expenses the
State may contract public debts, but such debts shall never in
the aggregate exceed $50,000.
"All powers not herein delegated remain to the people."
This constitution being in force, the legislature of the
State of Nebraska, on the 15th of February, 1869, passed
"An act to authorize the county commissioners of Otoe County to
issue the bonds of said county to the amount of $150,000 to the
Burlington and Missouri River -RailroadCompany, or any other
railroadcompany running east from Nebraska City." The Burlington and Missouri-River Railroad Company, here named,
was a foreign corporation; one incorporated by the State of
Iowa. The act of the Nebraska legislature was in these
words:
"WHEREAS the qualified electors of the county of Otoe, and
State of Nebraska, have heretofore, at an election held for that
purpose, authorized the county commissioners of said county to
issue the bonds of said county in payment of stock to any railroad inFremont County, Iowa, that would secure to Nebraska
City an eastern railroad connection, to the amount of $200,000;
and whereas but $40,000 have been issued.
"S1ScTION 1. Therefore, be it enacted, &c., That said commissioners be, and they are hereby authorized to issue $150,000 of
the bonds aforesaid to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company, or any other railroad company that will sepure
to Nebraska City a direct eastern railroad connection, as a donation to said railroadcompany, on such terms and conditions as
may be imposed by said county commissioners.

"SECTION 2. Said bonds, when so issued, are hereby declared

to be binding obligations on said county, and to be governed by
the terms and conditions of an act entitled 'An act to enable,
counties, cities, and precincts to borrow money or to issue bonds

670

RAILROAD COMPANY V. COUNTY OF OTOE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
to aid in the construction or completion of works of internal
improvements in this State, and to legalize bonds already issued
for such purpose,' approved February, A. D. 1869."
On the 23d day of July, 1869, the board of county commissioners of Otoe County reciting that the people of the
county had voted $200,000 in bonds, in aid of an eastern
railroad connection, of which bonds there remained unappropriated over $150,000, passed a resolution to the effect
that if the said Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company would within a limited time named, build a certain
road described (which it was stated the company proposed
to build, upon the condition that Otoe County "will donate
and give to said company" $150,000 in the bonds above referred to); and if the said company would equip and work
the said road as a through eastern connection, then the
county commissioners would issue and deliver to the said
railroad company $150,000 of the said bonds theretofore
voted by the said county to such eastern connection; the
resolution to operate as a contract between the county and
the railroad company, if accepted by the latter within a time
named. The resolution was accepted by the railroad company. The Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company within the time built and has ever since worked a
railroad such as was contemplated.
In this state of things, on the 23d day of July, 1869, the
county commissioners passed a resolution directing the
county clerk to deliver to the railroad company the bonds
with the coupons attached, which was by him accordingly
done on the 27th day of September, 1869. There was no
vote of the people other than that above mentioned authorizing the
issue of said bonds to said company.
The Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company
sold and transferred the said bonds with the coupons attached, for value, and before maturity of any of the coupons,
to the Chicago, Quincy, and Burlington Railroad Company,
another foreign corporation, to wit, a corporation of Illinois.
The coupons as they came due were detached from their

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. COUNTY O'F OTOE.

671

Argument for the county.

respective bonds, but not being paid, that company sued the
county of Otoe in the court below. On the trial the judges
were divided in opinion on the two following questions, and
the questions were certified and sent here for answers:
F irst. Whether or not the act of February 15th, 1869, authorizing the county to issue bonds in aid of a railroad outside of the State conflicted with the constitution of the State
of Nebraska.
Second. Whether the county commissioners of Otoe County,
under the act of February 15th, 1869, could lawfully issue
the bonds from which the coupons in suit were detached,
without the proposition to vote the bonds for the purpose
indicated, and also a tax to pay the same, being or having
been submitted to a vote of the people of the county as provided by the act of the Territorial legislature of Nebraska,
approved January 1st, 1861.
Mr. G. B. Scofleld, for the county:
1. By the constitution of Nebraska all power not delegated
to the legislature remains with the people. For defraying
extraordinary expenses, the State may contract a debt not
exceeding $50,000. Building a railroad is not an extraordinary occasion; nor was the limit here observed.
2. The constitution of Nebraska ordains that "the property of no person shall be taken for public use without just
compensation." Now persons may be properly taxed for
the public benefit; that is to say, for the benefit of all.' Private property, indeed, is then taken, but a compensation is
received. When, however, their property is taken for the
benefit of a private corporation, as in this case, it is talcen
without compensation. Certainly the property taken here
by tax is, in view of the purpose to which it is applied,
taken without any due process of law.
3. But if the preceding propositions were questionable, it
seems unquestionable that no legislature can take one man's
property to make a present of it-to give it by way of donation-to another man, or to a private corporation, which is
but an aggregation of men. This has been. judicially de-

672

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

COUNTY OF OTOE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cided by respectable courts.* Still less, if possible, can the
legislature delegate to the small political divisions which
exist under the names of counties, townships, cities, boroughs, &c., a power of this dangerous kind. The objects for
which these small political divisions are brought into existence are quite different.
4. Finally, and above all, the railroad to be aided is wholly
outside, not only of the county of 0toe, but of the State of
Nebraska. It is a foreign corporation. No benefits local
and peculiar arise to the county of Otoe from this railroad.
The people of the county have no right to use it, except as
all people everywhere have; that is to say, on paying for its
use. Even the advantages set up as a justification for the
tax are of a speculative kind.
Mr. J. A. Woolworth, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question upon which the judges of the Circuit
Court divided was whether the act of the legislature of Nebraska, approved February 15th, 1869, authorizing the
county of Otoe to issue bonds in aid of a railroad outside
of the State, conflicts with the constitution of that State.
Unless we close our eyes to what has again and again
been decided by this court, and by the highest courts of
most of the States, it would be difficult to discover any sufficient reason for holding that this act was transgressive of
the power vested by the constitution of the State in the legislature. That the legislative power of the State has been
conferred generally upon the legislature is not denieA, and
that all such power may be exercised by that body, except
so far as it is expressly withheld, is a proposition which admits of no doubt. It is true that, in construing the Federal
Constitution, Congress must be held to have only those
powers which are granted expressly or by necessary implication, but the opposite rule is the one to be applied to the
* Whiting v. Sheboygan Railway Company, 9 American Law Register,

156 ; Sweet v. Hurlburt, 51 Barbour, 318.

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. COUNTY OF OTO E.

673

Opinion of the court.

construction of a State constitution. The legislature of a
State may exercise all powers which are properly legislative,
unless they are forbidden by the State or National Constitution. This is a principle that has never been called in question. If, then, the act we are considering was legislative in
its character, it is incumbent upon those who deny its validity to show some prohibition in the constitution of the State
against such legislation. And that it was an exercise of legislative power is not difficult to maintain. No one questions'
that the establishment and maintenance of highways, an
the opening facilities for access to markets, are within the
province of every State legislature upon which has beer..
conferred general legislative power. These things are nec
essarily done by law. The State may establish highways or
avenues to markets by its own direct action, or it may enipower or direct one of its municipal divisions to establish
them, or to assist in their construction. Indeed, it has been
by such action that most of the highways of the country
have come into existence. They owe their being either to
some general enactment of a State legislature or to some
law that authorized a municipal division of the State to construct and maintain them at its own expense. They are the
creatures of law, whether they are common county or town-

ship roads, or turnpikes, or canals, or railways. And that
authority given to a municipal corporation to aid in the construction of a turnpike, canal, or railroad is a legitimate exercise of legislative power, unless the power be expressly

denied, is not only plain in reason, but it is established by a
number and weight of authorities beyond what can be adduced in support of almost any other legal proposition. The
highest courts of the States have affirmed it in nearly a
hundred decisions, and this court has asserted the same
doctrine nearly a score of times. It is no longer open to
debate.
Then what is there in the constitution of the State of Nebraska which denies this power to the legislature? There
is no direct or express prohibition. General legislative
power is vested in the legislature. None was reserved to
VOL. XyL

43

674

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. COUNTY OF OTOE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the people of the State. There are, however, certain restrictions that may be noticed. The constitution declares that
"the property of no person shall be taken for public use
without just compensation," and it is earnestly contended
that this prohibits the legislature from passing any laws in
,aid of the construction of a railroad that may result in the
imposition of taxes. It is said that the act of February 15th,
1869, is taking private property for a public use without
.compensation. It would be a sufficient answer to this to say
that a similar provision is found in the constitution of almost
,every State, the legislature of which has been held authorized to legalize municipal subscriptions in aid of railroad
companies. It has never been held to prohibit such legislaion as we are now considering. But the clause prohibiting
taking private property for public use without just compensation has no reference to taxation. If it has, then all taxation is forbidden, for "just compensation" means pecuniary
recompense to the person whose property is taken equivalent in value to the property. If a county is authorized to
build a court-house or a jail, and to impose taxes to defray
the cost, private property is as truly taken for public use
without compensation as it is when the county is authorized
to build a railroad or a turnpike, or to aid in the construction and to levy taxes for the expenditure. But it is taken
in neither case in the constitutional sense. The restriction
is upon the right of eminent domain, not upon the right of
taxation.
We find nothing else in the constitution of the State that
can with any reason be claimed to restrain the power of the
legislature to authorize municipal aid to railroads, or other
highways. There is a clause that declares "the credit of
the State shall never be given to, or bound in aid of any
individual association or corporation," and another that ordains that the debts of the State shall never, in the aggregate, exceed $50,000, but these refer only to State action
and State liability.*
:Patterson v. Board of Supervisors of Yuba, 13 California, 175.

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. COUNTY OF OTOE.-

675

Opinion of the court.

In view, therefore, of the organic law, of the State, and of
the decisions which have been made in regard to other similar constitutional provisions, both in the highest courts of
the States and in this court, we think it cannot be doubted
the legislature of Nebraska had authority to authorize its
municipal divisions to incur indebtedness and to impose
taxation in aid of railroad companies.
It is urged, however, against the validity of the act now
under consideration that it authorized a donation of the
county bonds to the railroad company, and it is insisted that
if even the legislature could empower the county to subscribe to the stock of such a corporation, it could not constitutionally authorize a donation. Yet there is no solid
ground of distinction between a subscription to stock and
an appropriation of money or credit. Both are for the purposd of aiding in the construction of the road; both are
aimed at the same object, securing a public advantage, obtaining a highway or an avenue to the markets of the
country; both may be equally burdensome to the taxpayers
of the county. The stock subscribed for may be worthless,
and known to be so. That the legislature of the State might
have granted aid directly to any railroad company by actual
donation of money from its treasury will not be controverted. No one questions that in the absence of some constitutional inhibition the power of a State to appropriate its
money, however raised, is limited only by the sense of justice and by the sound discretion of its legislature. If the
power to tax be unrestricted, the power to appropriate the
taxes is necessarily equally so. Accordingly nothing has
been more common in the State and Federal governments
than appropriations of public money raised by taxation to
objects, in regard to which no legal liability has existed.
State legislatures have made donations for numerous purposes, wherever, in their judgment, the public well-being
required them, and the right to make such gifts has never
been seriously questioned. As has been said, the security
against abuse of powei by a legislature in this direction is
found in the wisdom and sense of propriety of its members,

676

RAILROAD COMPANY

V. COUNTY OF OTOE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

and in their responsibility to their constituents. But if a
State can directly levy taxes to make donations to improvement companies, or to other objects which, in the judgment
of its legislature, it may be well to aid, it will be found difficult to maintain that it may not confer upon its municipal
divisions power to do the same thing. Counties, cities, and
towns exist only for the convenient administration of the
government. Such organizations are instruments of the
State, created to carry out its will. When they are authorized or directed to levy a tax, or to appropriate its proceeds,
the State through them is doing indirectly what it might do.
directly. It is true the burden of the duty may thus rest
upon only a single political division, but the legislature has.
undoubted power to apportion a public burden among all
the taxpayers of the State, or among those of a particular
section. In its judgment, those of a single section may reap
the principal benefit from a proposed expenditure, as from
the construction of a road, a bridge, an almshouse, or a hospital. It is not unjust, therefore, that they should alone
bear the burden. This subject has been so often discussed,
and the principles we have asserted have been so thoroughly
vindicated, that it seems to be needless to say more, or even
to refer at large to the decisions. A few only are cited.*
One other objection to the constitutionality of the act is
urged. It is that it authorized aid to a railroad beyond the
limits of the county, and outside the State. There is nothing in this objection. It was for the legislature to determine whether the object to be aided was one in which the
people of the State had an interest, and it is very obvious
that the interests of the people of Otoe County may have
been more involved in the construction of a road giving
them a connection with an eastern market than they could
be in the construction of any road wholly within the county.
* Blanding v. Burr, 13 California, 343; The Town of Guilford v. The Supervisors of Chenango County, 3 Kernan, 149; Stuart v Supervisors, 30
Iowa, 9; Augusta Bank v. Augusta, 49 Maine, 507; Railroad Co. v. Smith,
a case decided by the Supreme Court of Illinois and not reported.

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. COUNTY OF OTOE.

677

Opinion of the court.

But that the objection has no weight may be seen in Gelpcke,
v. _Dubuque,* and in Walker v. Cincinnati.t
We conclude, therefore, that the act of the legislature of
February 15th, 1869, is not in conflict with the constitution
of the State.
The second question upon which the Circuit Court divided was "whether the county commissioners of Otoe
-County could, under the act of February 15th, 1869, lawfully issue the bonds from which the coupons in suit were
detached, without the proposition to vote the bonds for the
purpose indicated, and also a tax to pay the same being or
having been submitted to a vote of the people of the county,
as provided by the act of the Territorial legislature of Nebraska, passed January 1st, 1861."
This question we answer in the affirmative. If the legislature had power to authorize the county officers to extend
aid on behalf of the county or State to a railroad company,
as we have seen it had, very plainly it could prescribe the
mode in which such aid might be extended, as well as the
terms and conditions of the extension, and it needed no assistance from a popular vote of the municipality. Such a
vote could not have enlarged legislative power. But the act
-of 1869 was an unconditional bestowal of authority upon the
,ounty commissioners to issue the bonds to the railroad comy'any. It required no precedent action of the voters of the
-county. It assumed that their assent had been obtained.
Uhat prior to 1869 the sanction of approval by a local popular
vote had been required for municipal aid to railroad companies, or improvement companies, is quite immaterial. The
requisition was but the act of an annual legislature which
any subsequent legislature could abrogate or annul.
It must, therefore, be certified to the Circuit Court, first,
that the act of. February 15th, 1869, is not unconstitutional;
and, second, that the county commissioners of Otoe County
could lawfully issue the bonds from which the coupons in
suit were detached, without any submission to a vote of the
*1 Wallace, 175.

J21 Ohio, 14.

OLCOTT v. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

people of the county of the proposition to approve the bonds,
or a tax for the payment thereof.
CERTIFIED ACCORDINGLY.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, Mr. Justice MILLER, and Mr
Justice DAVIS dissented from the opinion in this case.

OLCOTT V. THE SUPERVISORS.
1. This court will follow, as of obligation, the decisions of the State courts
only on local questions peculiar to themselves, or on questions respecting
the construction of their own constitution and laws.
2. Whether or not the construction and maintenance of a railroad owned by
a corporation, and constructed and maintained under a statute of a
State authorizing such construction and maintenance, is a matter in
which the public has any interest of such a nature as to warrant taxation by a municipal division of the State in aid of it, is not such a question. It is one of general law.
3. If a contract when made was valid under the constitution and laws of a
State, as they had been previously expounded by its judicial uribunals,
and as they were understood at the time, no subsequent action by the
legislature or the judiciary will be regarded by this court as establishing its invalidity.
4. A railroad is a public highway. Being so, and thus a road for public use,
a State may impose a tax in furtherance of that use, even though the
road itself be built and owned by a private corporation.
6. An act of the legislature of Illinois, authorizing a vote of the peoplo
of a particular county upon the question whether they would aid the
building of a certain railroad, and if they voted in favor of aiding authorizing the issue of county orders for money to aid in the building, held,
on an application of the principles just above stated to have been a proper
exercise of legislative authority, and the county charged on puch orders
issued by it, and given to the road by way of donation.

to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin; in which court Olcott sued the supervisors of
the county of Fond du Lac, Michigan, upon certain county
orders issued by the county February the 15th, 1869, in pursuance of an act of Assembly of the State, approved on the
10th of April, 1867, and entitled "An act to authorize the
ERROR

