OLCOTT v. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

people of the county of the proposition to approve the bonds,
or a tax for the payment thereof.
CERTIFIED ACCORDINGLY.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, Mr. Justice MILLER, and Mr
Justice DAVIS dissented from the opinion in this case.

OLCOTT V. THE SUPERVISORS.
1. This court will follow, as of obligation, the decisions of the State courts
only on local questions peculiar to themselves, or on questions respecting
the construction of their own constitution and laws.
2. Whether or not the construction and maintenance of a railroad owned by
a corporation, and constructed and maintained under a statute of a
State authorizing such construction and maintenance, is a matter in
which the public has any interest of such a nature as to warrant taxation by a municipal division of the State in aid of it, is not such a question. It is one of general law.
3. If a contract when made was valid under the constitution and laws of a
State, as they had been previously expounded by its judicial uribunals,
and as they were understood at the time, no subsequent action by the
legislature or the judiciary will be regarded by this court as establishing its invalidity.
4. A railroad is a public highway. Being so, and thus a road for public use,
a State may impose a tax in furtherance of that use, even though the
road itself be built and owned by a private corporation.
6. An act of the legislature of Illinois, authorizing a vote of the peoplo
of a particular county upon the question whether they would aid the
building of a certain railroad, and if they voted in favor of aiding authorizing the issue of county orders for money to aid in the building, held,
on an application of the principles just above stated to have been a proper
exercise of legislative authority, and the county charged on puch orders
issued by it, and given to the road by way of donation.

to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin; in which court Olcott sued the supervisors of
the county of Fond du Lac, Michigan, upon certain county
orders issued by the county February the 15th, 1869, in pursuance of an act of Assembly of the State, approved on the
10th of April, 1867, and entitled "An act to authorize the
ERROR

Dec.1872.]

OLCOTT v. THE SUPERVISORS.

679

Statement of the case.

county of Fond du Lac to aid the completion of the Sheboygan and Fond du Lac Railroad, and to aid the building
of a railroad from the city of Fond du Lac to the city of
Ripon."
This act authorized the people of the county to vote upon
the question whether they would aid the building of the
railroads named; and provided, in case the vote should be
in favor of granting aid, that "county orders" should be
issued as the roads should be completed. The sixth section of the act was thus:
"1If,under the provisions of this act, the said county of Fond
du Lac shall furnish the aid contemplated in this act, then the
railroad companies, or their successors and assigns, shall transport wheat upon the said roads upon the following terms for
ten years: Wheat by the car-load from the city of Fond'du Lac,
and from stations east thereof within the county of Fond du
Lac, to the city of Sheboygan, at a price not exceeding five
cents per bushel; and from the city of Ripon to the city of Sheboygan, at a price not exceeding seven cents per bushel; and
from all stations between the cities of Fond du Lac and Ripon
to Sheboygan, at a rate pro rata with the freight from Fond dnLac to Sheboygan; and the companies or corporations owning
and building the said roads, their successors and assigns, shall
make such arrangements between themselves as shall give fall
effect to the provisions of this section, and the rates of freight
above limited shall also apply to the companies owning or operating the said roads over and upon all other railroads where
said companies respectively ran their cars for the transportation of freight."
A vote was taken under the act, and was in favor of granting the aid. The county orders were accordingly issued in
conformity with the act. They were all made payable to
the Sheboygan and Fond du Lac Railroad Company,. or
bearer. and those now sued on had passed, bontfide, into the
hands of Olcott.
In 1870, that is to say, subsequent to the issue of these
orders, though prior to the trial of this case in the court below, the Supreme Court of the State of"Wisconsin, in the

680

OLCOTT

v.

THE

SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

case of Whiting v. Fond du Lao County,* held this act to be
void, upon the ground that the building of a railroad, to be
owned and worked by a corporation in the usual way, was
not an object in which the public were interested, and therefore that the act in question was void, for the reason that it
authorized the levy of a tax for a private and not a public
purpose. The court there said:
"The question is as to the power of the legislature to raise
money or to authorize it to be. raised, by taxation, for the purpose of donating it to a private corporation. We held, in Gurtis
v. Whipple,t that the legislature possessed no such power, and
the conclusion in that case we think follows inevitably in this,
from the principles stated in the opinion. The cases are not
distinguishable, except in the single circumstance that the corporation here, to which it is proposed to give the money, is a
railroad company in behalf of which the power of eminent domain has been exercised by the State for the purpose of enabling
it to secure the land over which to build its road. .

.

. But

though a railroad company may be, as to its capacity to assume
and exercise in the name of the State the power of eminent domain delegated to it, so far a public or quasi public corporation,
yet in all its other powers, functions, and capacities it is essentially a private corporation, not distinguishable from any other
of that name or character. . . . The road, with all its rolling
stock, buildings, fixtures, and other property pertaining to it, is
private property, owned, operated, and used by the company
for the exclusive benefit and advantage of the stockholders.
This constitutes a private corporation in the fullest sense of the
term. .

.

. And if we examine any book of authority on the sub-

ject,t we shall find that such is and always has been the rule
of the law as to the corporate character of such companies, notwithstanding the delegation of power of eminent domain, and
their consequent subjection in a certain degree to public use and
convenience. They are always classed among private corporation's, such as banking, insurance, and manufacturing corporations, and corporations for the building of bridges, turnpikes,
canals, &c. .

.

. Our conclusion, therefore, is that though a rail.

25 Wiscor sin, 188.
See Angel' & Ames on Corporations,

t 24 Wisconsin, 350.
40.

D9ec. 1872.]

OLCOTT v. THE SUPERVISORS.

681

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

road company may possess this single exceptional corporate
characteristic, it is, nevertheless, essentially a private corporation, coming fully within the operation of the principles laid
down in Curtis v. WMipple, and that the taxation complained of
cannot be sustained."
The court below, in this case, held that decision to be
binding upon the Federal courts, and charged that the act
under which the orders were issued was void. Judgment
having gone accordingly it was now here for review.
It may here be mentioned that by the constitution of Wisconsin, the legislature of the State has power to alter or repeal charters granted by it.
Mr. M. H. Carpenter,for the plaintiff in error:
This case presents two questioifs:
First. Was the decision of the State court binding upon
the court below? and,
Second. If not binding, was it correct in principle?
I. As to the first point.
1. A leading motive to the adoption of the Constitution
was to make the people of all the States one people, for
commercial purposes. This object was secured by two provisions of the Constitution; one providing that no State
should make any law impairing the obligation of a contract;
the other, that a citizen of one State might sue a citizen of
another State in the courts of the Union. The Constitution
was designed to secure results, and whatever defeats the design of the Constitution is unconstitutional. When the citizen of one State contracts with a citizen of another State,
he acquires a constitutional right to have his contract construed and enforced by the Federal courts. Judicial power
is the power to determine what are the rights and duties,
respectively, of the parties to a particular litigation growing
out of such of their transactions as the case involves; and
this power the Constitution confers upon the court and denies to Congress. The decision must be the result of the
opinions and judgment of the judges who pronounce it; and
Congress cannot constitutionally say that the courts shall

682

OLCOTT V. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

decide otherwise, nor can the courts decide otherwise without violating their constitutional duty.
The Judiciary Act provides that the laws of the several
States shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at the
common law, in the courts of the United States, "in cases
where they apply." The question is where do they apply?
In cases of contract, the law of the State in force when the
contract was made forms part of the contract, and must be
applied in the Federal courts in construing and enforcing
the contract. A decision of the State court, made before
the contract, settling the law of the State, is authority in the
Federal court, without regard to whether it be sound or
unsound in principle, because the parties must be presumed
to have contracted with reference to it. But a decision
made after the contract was entered into, forms no part of
the contract; the parties did not contract with reference to
such decision; and to hold it binding upon the Federal
courts, is to deny to a foreign creditor his constitutional right
to have the conscientious opinion and judgment of Federal
judges upon his contract. It would be offensive for the
Federal courts to say to the creditor: "You may sue in our
courts, if you fear the State courts are prejudiced against
your claim; but we must decide as the State courts would,
because we are bound by all the decisions they have made
since you entered into the contract."
The broad principle ought to be declared by this court,
that no State court decision affecting the validity of a contract, made after the contract was enteredinto, is conclusive upon
the Federal courts. All the decisions in this court are consistent with this principle, but the principle itself has not
been expressly declared. Yet in no way can injustice to a
foreign creditor be prevented but by planting the doctrine
upon its proper foundation, and saying that decisions of the
State courts pronounced subsequent to the contract are not
conclusive upon the Federal courts. If they are, the machinery of a doublejudiciary, State and Federal, is a mockery
and a snare.
2. The decision of the State court is not binding upon the

:Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT

v.

THE SUPERVISORS.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Federal courts, because it was not declaratory of local law.
It was based upon general reasoning, and upon the theory
that aiding the construction of a railroad was not an exercise
of the power of taxation, but taking the property of A. and
giving it to B.
No particular provision of the State constitution or principle of local law was relied upon. The decision, if it be
sound, invalidates the similar enactments of every State, and
the acts of Congress granting aid to the Pacific Railroads.
It is only where some principle of local law is declared by a
State court that its decisions are binding upon the Federal
courts.*
The constitutions of Wisconsin and fllinois are precisely
alike in this respect. The Supreme Court of the latter State,
since the decision of Whiting v. Bond du .Lac County, has decided a similar case exactly the other way, fully considering
the question and rejecting the entire reasoning of the court
in Whiting's Case, and holding just such a statute valid
under just such a constitution as that of Wisconsin, and enforcing obligations like those sued on in this case.
Now, suppose an action in the Federal court of Wisconsin,
and one in the Federal court of Illinois, upon the contracts
respectively, and both brought at the same term into this
court. This court, if bound by such State decisions, would
have to decide one case one way and the other the other
way, while in every respect which ought to determine the
cases they are identical. This would be a remarkable result to be worked out by the judiciary of a Union established especially to give uniformity to commercial law and
commercial regulations. Then suppose a case in this court
involving the constitutionality of the subsidies granted by
Congress in aid of the Pacific Railroad. This court would
undoubtedly hold, for that is the law, that the building of
such a road is a proper work for the government, one in
which the whole nation is interested, and that such subsidies are val;d. Now, in addition to the humiliation of
* Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 19.

684

OLCOTT V. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

three such decisions, reported, perhaps, in the same volume,
it would logically result that this court had determined that
after a citizen of New York had entered into a contract
in Wisconsin with a citizen of that State, which was valid

upon principle, and was not impugned by any decision of
the State court, at the time it was entered into-a contract
which the Federal court, a year after it was made, would
have held valid-had been annulled and destroyed by a decision of the State court, made long subsequent to the contract, in a case to which the creditor was not a party, of
which he had no notice, to which he had never assented,
and which was wholly wrong in principle. It is submitted
that after this the right of a foreign creditor to sue in a
Federal court would not be very valuable.
8. This court has repeatedly decided that if a contract be
valid by the law of a State as understood and administered
by the different departments of the State government at the
time the contract was made, no subsequent change of decisions by the State courts can render it invalid.
Prior to the making of the contracts in suit the State
court bad repeatedly settled all the principles necessary to
sustain the validity of these contracts. That court had held
that the power of taxation might constitutionally be exercised in favor of any enterprise in which the public had the
least possible interest. It did so in Brodhead v. ffilwaukee,*
and in Soens v. _Racine.t The constitution of Wisconsin forbids the taking of private property except for a public use;
that is, a use in which the public are interested. In -Robbins
v. Railroad,j the court held that land might be taken for a
railroad under the right of eminent domain, because such
taking was for a public use. In Hasbrouck v. Milwaukee,ยง the
court sustained a tax to build a harbor on Lake Michigan,
at Milwaukee, and based their decision upon the ground
that such harbor was as much a matter of public interest as
a railroad, and that it was well settled that taxation could
be exercised to aid in the construction of a railroad.
19 Wisconsin, 652.
]6 Id. 641.

t 10 Id. 280.
13 Id. 37.

Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT V. THE SUPERVISORS.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

To show how utterly at war with these decisions, made
years before the contracts, is the decision in Whiting v. Fond
du Lac County, holding that taxation in aid of the building
of a railroad is not for a public object, and therefore void,
let us condense the doctrine of the cases and see how the
conclusions agree:

1st. A tax may be authorized by the legislature for any
object in which the public have the least possible interest.
2d. The right of eminent domain can only-be exercised
in aid of an object in which the public have some interest.
Conclusions:
1st. The power of taxation cannot be exercised in aid of
the construction of a railroad, because thepublic have no interest in a railroad; and
2d. The right of eminent domain may be exercised in aid
of the construction of a railroad, because the public have an
interest in it.
The conclusions are obviously such as this court cannot
assent to.

II. As to the second point. The decision of the State
court in Whiting v. Fond du Lac County was erroneous.
1. Railroads are public highways. Upon no other ground
can the right of eminent domain in favor of a railroad company, be vindicated. Therefore every decision sustaining
this right, is an authority in favor of the power to raise
money by taxation for that purpose; and such decisions
have been made by all American courts, State and National.
2. There is no constitutional objection to raising money
to give it as a donation to a railroad company, under the
circumstances of this case, which do not exist to an act authorizing the municipalities to subscribe for stock and pay
by taxation. Now, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin has
decided in two cases,* never reversed, that such aid might
be given.
* Clark v. Janesville, 10 Wisconsin, 136; and Bushnell v. Beloit, Ih 195;
and in several subsequent cases

OLCOTT v. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

8. The building of roads as a means of facilitating commerce, is a proper work of government; a subject clearly
within the legislative power, and has been so regarded in
every civilized nation from early times. The sixth section
of the charter of this particular road tended directly to a
public benefit.
Messrs. I C. Sloan and J. B. Bennett, contra:
I. The question below arose upon an act of the legislature
of Wisconsin; an act in its nature a private act. Now the
highest court of Wisconsin had interpreted that act; had
declared its meaning and effect. It had declared that the
act authorized the levy of a public tax for a private purpose;
in other words, that it took private property without compensation for a public purpose. Certainly this is an interpretation of a State act by the State court. And it is the
established doctrine of this court that it will adopt and follow the decisions of the State courts in the construction of
their own State constitutions, and statutes passed in pursuance of them, when that construction has been settled by
the highest judicial tribunal of the State. Primafacie, then,
the Circuit Court did right to respect it.
Mr. Carpenter would argue that no decision-apparently,
not even one by the highest court of the State, confessedly
upon its own constitution and laws, and though not opposed
to prior decisions in the State-should be regarded by
this court if made after a contract has been entered into by
a foreigner. But the risk of a decision upon an uninterpreted State constitution or law is what a foreigner may be
as well asked to take as a citizen.
Mr. Carpenter, however, relies on four cases to show that
the decision in Whiting v. Fond du Lao County was opposed
to former ones. But what do they decide?
Brodhead v. Milwaukee decided that a State legislature
might authorize a municipal corporation to raise money by
taxation for bounty to volunteers to suppress an insurrection against the lawful government; in other words, per.

Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT V.

THE SUPERVISORS.

Argument for the defendant in error.

haps, to repel a public enemy entering its own gates from
sacking and burning it, and killing its citizens.
Soens v. .Racine decided that the citizens of Racine were
rightly taxed to improve a breakwater, which it was necessary to improve in order to stay the action of the waterd of
a lake and preserve the very soil of the city, and of course
the buildings on it, from being washed away.
In -Robbinsv. Railroad it was held that private property
might be taken by a railroad for its roadbed under an exercise of the power of eminent domain delegated by the State,
and, of course, on compensation being made.
In .Hasbrouckv. Milwaukee the citizens of Milwaukee were
taxed to improve a harbor which the city, that is to say,
which they themselves in their municipal capacity owned.
These were all cases of taxation for the direct and immediate benefit of the public.
The courts which decided them doubtless in their opinions
used some general language; but this is but dictum. What
were the facts? What were the cases? What the judgments ? These, when the adjudications are cited for precedents, are the lawyer-like and pertinent inquiries. It will
not do to sever the language of the court from the facts of
the case before it, and to attempt to apply it to a different
state of facts; facts where the object of the tax is to promote
strictly individual, and to add to or to enhance the value of
merely private, property. And particularly is this unallowable, when the power to tax for any private purpose was expressly denied in the opinions.
Still, therefore, Whiting v. Fond du Lac County was rightly
held obligatory independently of its own merits. If so this
case is ended.
II. But if it did not biud the Circuit Court technically it
was correct in principle.
Cases are cited on the other side which decide that acts of
legislature authorizing municipal corporations to subsoribe
for stock, and pay by taxation, are valid. But since, as before
those decisions, the legality of permitting such corporations

OLCOTT v.

THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

to engage in making railroads has been denied by the ablest
jurists in this country, including notably Mr. R~edfield;*
and when this power has been sustained in courts by the decisions, it has generally been by a much-divided court. But
whether right or wrong is unimportant, for in Whiting vFond du Lac County the court was asked to go much further,
and to hold that counties and towns might be taxed to pay for
the stock subscribed for by others. It was asked to declare
that the State might compel the people to make a donation
to railroads in which they have no interest; that the State,
under the taxing power, might transfer A.'s money to B.
without an equivalent. Such an act is in violation of all
our State constitutions, and of natural justice. The Supreme Court of Wisconsin declined to take this step, and
held that it was unlawful to tax the people for such a purpose. And this appeal is brought to have this court in effect
reverse that decision. We trust that it will not be reversed.
It is maintained by weighty arguments given in the report of
it. And the judgment of the court has been supported by
the reasoning of the Supreme Court of Michigan in Ex rel.
Howell v. Town _Board of Salem.t The leading opinion in
this case is delivered by Cooley, J., whose name is familiar
in this court by his oft-cited and valuable work on Constitutional Limitations, and who has acquired a national reputation for learning and ability as a constitutional lawyer. We
refer to his opinion at large as our best argument.
Mr. Justice STROIG delivered the opinion of the court.
Whether the act of Assembly of the State of Wisconsin,
approved April 10th, 1867, under which the county orders
or promissory notes sued upon, in this case, were issued,
was a lawful exercise of constitutional power, is the only
question in the case. In the court below, the jury was instructed, in substance, that the issue of the orders was unauthorized and void, and that the act of Assembly, above
referred to, was an unconstitutional exercise of legislative
*2 :Law of Railways, p. 398, note 2.

t 20 ichigan, 452.

Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT

v.

THE SUPERVISORS.

Opinion of the court.

power. No other question was made at the trial, and no
other is now presented to us for our determination.
At the outset we are met by the fact that the Supreme
Court of the State has decided the act was unauthorized by
the constitution. It was thus ruled in Whiting v. Fond du
Lac County.* If that decision is binding upon the Federal
courts, if it has established a rule which we are under obligations to follow, the matter is settled.
It is undoubtedly true in general, that this court does
follow the decisions of the highest courts of the States re
specting local questions peculiar to themselves, or respec!
ing the construction of their own constitutions and laws..
But it must be kept in mind that it is only decisions upo-,
local questions, those which are peculiar to the severml
States, or adjudications upon the meaning of the constitu.
tion or statutes of a State, which the Federal courts adopt
as rules for their own judgments. That Whiting v. Fond du
Lac County was not a determination of any question of local
law, is manifest. It is not claimed to have been that. But
it is relied upon as having given a construction to the constitution of the State. Very plainly, however, such was
not its character or effect. The question considered by the
court was not one of interpretation or construction. The
meaning of no provision of the State constitution was considered or declared. What was considered was the uses for
which taxation generally, taxation by any government, might
be authorized, and particularly whether the construction and
maintenance of a railroad, owned by a corporation, is a
matter of public concern. It was asserted (what nobody
doubts), that the taxing power of a State extends no farther
than to raise money for a public use, as distinguished from
private, or to accomplish some end public in its nature, and
it was decided that building a railroad, if it be constructed
and owned by a corporation, though built by authority of
the State, is not a matter in which the public has any in.
terest, of such a nature as to warrant taxation in its aid.
25 Wisconsin, 188.
VOL. XVI.

44

OLCOTT

v. THE

SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

For this reason it was held that the State had no power to
authorize the imposition of taxes to aid in the construction
of such a railroad, and therefore that the statute giving
Fond du Lac County power to extend such aid was invalid.
This was a determination of no local question, or question
of statutory or constitutional construction. It was not decided that the legislature had not.general legislative power;
or that it might not impose or authorize the imposition of
taxes for any public use. Now, whether a use is public or
private is not a question of constitutional construction. It
is a question of general law. It has as much reference to
the constitution of any other State as it has to the State of
Wisconsin. Its solution must be sought not in the decisions
of any single State tribunal, but in general principles common to all courts. The nature of taxation, what uses are
public and what are private, and the extent of unrestricted
legislative power, are matters which, like questions of cornmercial law, no State court can conclusively determine for
us. This consideration alone satisfies our minds that Whiting
v. Fond du Lac County furnishes no rule which should control our judgment, though the case is undoubtedly entitled
to great respect.
There is another consideration that leads directly to the
same conclusion. This court has always ruled that if a contract when made was valid under the constitution and laws
of a State, as they had been previously expounded by its
judicial tribunals, and as they were understood at the time,
no subsequent action by the legislature or the judiciary will
be regarded by this court as establishing its invalidity.*
Such a rule is based upon the highest principles of justice.
Parties have a right to contract, and they do contract in
view of the law as declared to them when their engagements
are formed. Nothing can justify us in holding them to any
other rule. If, then, the doctrine asserted in Whiling v. Fond
du Lac County is inconsistent with what was the recognized
* Havemeyer v. Iowa City, 3 Wallace, 294; Gelpcke v. The City of Du-

buque, 1 Id. 175; Ohio Life and Trust Company v. Debolt, 16 Howard, 432.

Dec.

1872.]

OLCOTT V. Tim SUPERVISORS.
Opinion of the court.

law of, the State when the county orders were issued, we
are under no obligation to accept it and apply it to this case.
The orders were issued in February, 1869, and it was not
until 1870 that the Supreme Court of the State decided that
the uses for which taxation was authorized bythe statute of
.April 10th, 1867, were not public uses, and therefore that
the statute was invalid. Prior to 1870 it seems to have been
as well settled in Wisconsin as elsewhere that the construe-.
tion of a railway was a matter of public concern, and not
the less so because done by a private corporation. That the
State might itself make such an improvement, and impose
taxes to defray the cost, or exercise its right of eminent
domain therefor, was beyond question. Yet confessedly it
could neither take property or tax for such a purpose, unless
the use for which the property was taken or the tax collected was a public one. And. it was also the undoubted
law of the State that building a railroad or a canal by an incorpprated company was an act done for a public use, and thus
the power of the legislature to delegateto such a company
the State right of eminent domain was justified. In -Pratt,
v. Brown,* it was said by the Supreme Court of the State
that the incorporation of companies for the purpose of constructing railroads or canals affords the best illustration of
the delegation of power to exercise the right of eminent domain, by the condemnation and seizure of private property
for public use upon making just compensation therefor. It
is admitted that the only principle upon which such delega.
tion of power can be justified is that the property taken by
these companies is taken for the public use. Similar language was used and a decision to the @same effect was made
in Bobbins v. The Railroad Company. t In Hasbrouck v. Milwaukee,j a case where the right to tax for the improvement
of a harbor was under consideration, the court used this significant language:
"The power of municipal corporations, when authorized
by the legislature te engage in works of internal improve.
* 8 Wisconsin, 612.

t 6 Id. 641.

$ 13 Id. 87.

692

OLCOT v. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ment,

SUCH AS THE BUILDING OF RAILROADS, canals, harbors,
and the like, or to loan their credit in aid thereof, and to

defray the expenses of such improvements, MAKE GOOD THEIR
by an exercise of the power of taxing the persons and
property of their citizens, has always been sustained on the ground
that such works, although they are in general operated and controlled by private corporations, are nevertheless, by reason of the
facilities which they afford for trade, commerce, and intercommunication between different and distant portions of the country, indispensable to the public interests and public functions. It was
originally supposed that they would add, and subsequent experience demonstrated that they have added vastly, and almost immeasurably, to the general business, the commercial prosperity, and
the pecuniary resources of the inhabitants of cities, towns, villages,
and rural districts through which they pass, and with which they
are connected. It is, in view of these results, the public good
thus produced, and the benefits thus conferred upon the persons
and property of all the individuals composing the community, that courts have been able to pronounce them matters
of public concern, for the accomplishment of which the taxing
power might lawfully be called into action. It is in this sense
that they are said to fall so far within the purposes for which
municipal corporations are created, that such corporations
may engage in, or pledge their credit for their construction."
So also in Soens v. .Racine,* where the validity of a law
authorizing a local tax to secure the lake shore was in question, the court discussed at length the nature of a public use
for which taxation was lawful, and ruled that the use was a
public one though only the property of some inhabitants of
the city was saved, remarking that to determine whether a
matter is a public or merely private concern we have not to
determine whether or not the interests of some individuals
will be directly promoted, but whether those of the whole
or the greater part of the community will be. And again,
in Brodhead v. Milwaukee,t the court said:
PLEDGES

* 10 Wisconsin, 280.
j- 19 Id. 652; see also Clark v. Janesville, 10 Id. 136; and Bushnell u
Beloit, lb. 195.

Dec. 1872.]

OLOOTT v. THE

SUPERVISORS.

Opinion of the court.

"The legislature cannot create a public debt, or levy a
tax, or authorize a municipal corporation to do so, in order
to raise funds for a mere private purpose. It cannot, in the
form of a tax, take the money of the citizen and giye it to
an individual, the public interest or welfare being in no way connected with the transaction. The objects for which the money
is raised by taxation must be public, and such as subserve
the common interest and wellbeing of the community required to contribute. .

.

. To justify the court in arresting

the proceedings and declaring the tax void, the absence of
all possiblepublic interest in the purpbses for which the funds
are raised must be clear and palpable; so clear and palpable
as to be perceptible by every mind AT THE FIRST BLUSH."
All these expositions of the law of the State were made
by its highest court before the county orders now in suit
were issued. They certainly did assert that building a railxoad, whether built by the State or by a corporation created
by the State for the purpose, was a matter of public concern,
and that because it was a public use, the right of eminent
domain might be exerted or delegated for it, and taxation
might be authorized for its aid. It was the declared law of
-the State, therefore, when the bonds now in suit were issued,
that the uses of railroads, though built by private corporations, were public uses, such as warranted the exercise of
fle public right of eminent domain in their aid, and also
the power of taxation.
We are not, then, concluded by a decision, made in 1870,
that such public uses are not of a nature to justify the imposition of taxes. We are at liberty to inquire what are
public uses, and what restrictions, if any, are imposed upon
the State's taxing power.
It is not claimed that the constitution of Wisconsin contains any express denial of power in the legislature to authorize municipal corporations to aid in the construction of
railroads, or to impose taxes for that purpose. The entire
legislative power of the State is confessedly vested in the
General Assembly. An implied inhibition only is asserted,

694

OLCOTT V. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It is insisted that, as the State cannot itself impose taxes for
any other than a public use, so the legislature cannot empower a municipal division of the State to levy and collect
taxes for any other than such a use, and it is denied that
taxation to enable the county of Fond du Lac to aid in the
completion of the Sheboygan and Fond du Lac Railroad is
taxation for a public use. No one contends that the power
of a State to tax, or to authorize taxation, is not limited by
the uses to which the proceeds may be devoted. Undoubtedly taxes may not be laid for a private use. But is the
construction of a railroad by a company incorporated by a
State for the purpose of building it, and endowed with the
State's right of eminent domain, a thing in which the State
has, as such, no interest? That the legislature of Wisconsin
may alter or repeal the charter granted to the Sheboygan
and Fond du Lac Railroad Company is certain. This is a
power -reserved by the constitution. The railroad can,
therefore, be controlled and regulated by the State. Its use
can be defined; its tolls and rates for transportation may be
limited. Is a work made by authority of the State, subject
thus to its regulation, and having for its object an increase
of public convenience, to be regarded as ordinary private
property ?
That railroads, though constructed by private corporations and owned by them, are public highways, has been
the doctrine of nearly all the courts ever since such conveniences for passage and transportation have had any existence. Very early the question arose whether a State's
right of eminent domain could be exercised by a private
corporation created for the purpose of constructing a railroad. Clearly it could not, unless taking land for such a
purpose by such an agency is taking land for public use.
The right of eminent domain nowhere justifies taking property for a private use. Yet it is a doctrine universally accepted that a State legislature may authorize a private corporation to take land for the construction of such a road,
making compensation to the owner. What else does this
doctrine mean if not that building a railroad, though it be

Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT v. Tun SUPBRVISORS.

695

Opinion of the court.

built by a private corporation, is an act done for a public
use? And the reason why the use has always been held a
public one is that such a road is a highway, whether made
by the government itself or by the agency of corporate
bodies, or even by individuals when they obtain their power
to construct it from legislative grant. It would be useless
to cite the numerous decisions to this effect which have
been made in the State courts. We may, however, refer to
two or three which exhibit fully not only the doctrine itself,
but the reasons upon which it rests.*
Whether the use of a railroad is a public or a private one
depends in no measure upon the question who constructed
it or who owns it. It has never been considered a matter
of any importance that the road was built by the agency of
a private corporation. No matter who is the agent, the
function performed is that of the State. Thbugh the ownership is private the use is public. So turnpikes, bridges,
ferries, and canals, although made by individuals under
public grants, or by companies, are regarded as publkcijuris.
The right to exact tolls or charge freights is granted for a
service to the public. The owners may be private companies, but they are compellable to permit the public to use
their works in the manner in which such works can be
used.t That all persons may not put their own cars upon
the road, and use their own motive power, has no bearing
upon the question whether the road is a public highway.
It bears only upon the mode of use, of which the legislature
is the exclusive juage.1
It is unnecessary, however, to pursue this branch of the
inquiry further, for it is not seriously denied that a railroad,
though constructed and owned by a private corporation, is
a matter of public concern, and that its uses are so far public
that the right of eminent domain of the State may be ex* Beekman v. The Saratoga and Schenectady Railroad Co., 3 Paige, 45;
Bloodgood v. The Mohawk and Hudson Railroad Co., 18 Wendell, 1; Worcester v. Railroad Co., 4 Metcalf, 564.
f Charles River Bridge Co. v. Warren, 7 Pickering, 495.
$ Cooley's Constitutional Limitations.

696

OLCOTT v. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

erted to facilitate its construction. But it is contended that
though the purpose and the use may be public, sufficiently
to justify taking private property, they are not public when
the right to impose taxes is asserted. It is argued that there
are differences between the power of taxation and the power
of taking private property for a public use, and that because
of these differences it does not follow that wherever the one
power may be exerted the other can. We do not care to
inquire whether this is so or not. The question now is
whether if a railroad, built and owned by a private corporation, is for a public use, because it is a highway, taxes may
not be imposed in furtherance of that use. If there be any
purpose for which taxation would seem to be legitimate it
is the making and maintenance of highways. They have
always been governmental affairs, and it has ever been recognized as one of the most important duties of the State to
provide and care for them. Taxation for such uses has been
immemorially imposed. When, therefore, it is settled that
a railroad is a highway for public uses, there can be no substantial reason why the power of the State to tax may not
be exerted in its behalf. It is said that railroads are not
public highways per se; that they are only declared such by
the decisions of the courts, and that they have been declared
public only with respect to the power of eminent domain.
This is a mistake. In their very nature they are public
highways. It needed no decision of courts to make them
such. True they must be used in a peculiar manner, and
under certain restrictions, but they are facilities for passage
and transportation afforded to the public, of which the public has a right to avail itself. As well might it be said a
turnpike is a highway, only because declared such by judicial decision. A railroad built by a State no one claims
would be anything else than a public highway, justifying
taxation for its construction and maintenance, though it
could be no more open to public use than is a road built and
owned by a corporation. Yet it is the purpose and the uses
of a work which determine its character. And if the purpose is one for which the State may properly levy a tax

Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT

v. THE

SUPERVISORS.

Opinion of the court.

upon its citizens at large, its legislature has the power to
apportion and impose the duty, or confer the power of
assuming it upon the municipal divisions of the State.*
And surely it cannot be maintained that ownership by the
public, or by the State, of the thing in behalf of which taxation is imposed, is necessary to justify the imposition. There
are many acknowledged public uses that have no relation to
ownership. Indeed, most public expenditures are for purposes apart from any proprietorship of the State. A public
use may, indeed, consist in the possession, occupation, and
enjoyment of property by the public, or agents of the public,
but it is not necessarily so. Even in regard to common
roads, generally, the public has no ownership of the soil, no
right of possession, or occupation. It has a mere right of
passage. While, then, it may be true that ownership of
property may sometimes bear upon the question whether
the uses of the property are public, it is not the test.
The argument most earnestly urged against the constitutionality of the act is that it attempted to authorize Fond du
Lac County to assist the railroad company by a donation.
It is stoutly contended that the legislature could not authorize the county to impose taxes to enable it to make a donation in aid of the construction of the railroad, even if its
ultimate uses are public. But why not? If the county can
be empowered to aid the work because it is a public use,
what difference can it make in what mode the aid be extended? It is conceded that in Wisconsin municipal corporations may be authorized to become subscribers to the stock
of private railroad companies, and to raise money by taxation to meet bonds given in payment of the subscriptions.
This has been decided by the highest court of the State.t
And the reasons given for the decision are, not that the
municipal bodies acquired property rights by their subscriptions, or that they thereby obtained partial control of the
:ailroad companies, but that subscriptions to the stock were
* Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 262.

t Clark v. Janesville, 10 Wisconsin, 186; Bushnell v. Beloit, Ib. 195.

OLCOTT

v. THE

SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

a mode of aiding a work in which the public had an interest,
a work of such a nature that it might properly be aided by
taxation. Never was the right to tax supposed to rest in
any degree upon anything else. Whether the stock bad
value or not was not even considered. Equally with the
taxation, the municipal subscription could be justified only
because it was for a public use. If taxation is invalid because laid for a private use, the nature of the use cannot be
changed by receiving stock for the money raised. There is
no substantial difference in principle between aid given to a
railroad company by subscription to its stock and aid given
by donations of money or land. The burden upon the
county may be the same in whichever mode the aid is
given, and the uses promoted are precisely the same. And
the courts have never attempted to make any distinction in
the cases; certainly not until the case of Whiting v. Fond du
Lac County, and even then no real difference is shown. On
the other hand, the power to tax for the purpose of making
donations in aid of railroads built by private corporations
has been affirmed.* We have, however, considered this
subject in the case of the 1?ailroadCo. v. County of Otoe,t and
nothing more need now be said. What we have already
remarked is sufficient to show that in our opinion the act of
the legislature of Wisconsin, approved April 10th, 1867, was
a constitutional exercise of legislative power, and consequently that the Circuit Court erred in instructing the jury
that it was unconstitutional and void, and in directing a verdict for the defendants.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

structions to award

and the record remitted, with inA

VENIRE DE NOVO.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, Mr. Justice MILLER, and Mr.
Justice DAVIS dissented from the preceding opinion.
* Gibbons v. Mobile and Great Northern Railroad Co., 36 Alabama, 410;
Davidson et al. v. Commissioners of Ramsay County, Minnesota.
t Supra, p. 675.

