SMITH V.

MCCooL.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the ease.

was not in laches in defending his rights. He is clearly entitled, under the circumstances of the case, to the fell value
of these goods, clear of all expenses, whether the assignees
realized that value or not (limited, of course, by the amount
of rent which he is entitled to be paid); and also to all the
taxable costs to which he has been put by this litigation.
As to any damages beyond that, if he has sufered any, we
think that he ought not to recover them in this suit, as he,
or the sheriff for his benefit, had an option to bring an
action of trespass for damages, instead of resorting to a
court of equity for relief. Damages are allowed, it is true,
in certain cases, as incidental to other relief; but even if
they could, in strictness, be awarded in this suit, we do not
think that the case is such as to call for the interposition of
the court in directing an inquiry as to damages.
DECREE REVERSED,

with directions to the court below to

proceed in the cause
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

SMITH V. MCCOOL.
Where in ejectment a special verdict has been found and judgment entered
on it in the court below, for the plaintiff, which judgment, in an appellate court, is set aside with directions to enter judgment for the defendant, the special verdict cannot, on the plaintiffs bringing a second ejectment upon a subsequently acquired title, be used to establish a fact
found in it, as ex. gr. the heirship of one of the parties under whom the
plaintiffs claimed.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois. The case was twice argued in this court: once at
December Term, 1869, and now again in December Term,
1872.

Messrs. G. F. -Hardingand H. M. Weed, for the plaintiff in
error; Messrs. J. B. Hawley and G. C. Lanphere, contra.

Dec. 1872.]

SMITH V. MCCOOL.
Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice SWAYNTE stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The action in the court below was ejectment. The plaintiff in error was the plaintiff there. A like action between
the same parties for the same premises was heretofore decided by this court, and is reported in 1st Black, 459. In
that case the jury found a special verdict, which is set out
in the statement of the case by the reporter. This court
held that the plaintiff had no title at the commencement of
the suit, and upon that ground reversed the judgment, an-..
remanded the cause with directions to the court below to
enter a judgment upon the special verdict for the defendant,
which was accordingly done. Smith, the plaintiff in that
action, subsequently instituted the case now before us, upon
a title alleged to have been acquired since the commence.
ment of the former suit. Upon the trial in this case, he
offered in evidence the special verdict in the former case, to
prove the heirship of one of the parties under whom he
claimed. The evidence was objected to by the counsel for
the defendant, and excluded by the court. The plaintiff
excepted and has brought this ruling here for review.
A. verdict without a judgment in a case like this is of no
validity, either as an estoppel or as evidence.* To give efficacy to a verdict, general or special, it must be followed by
a judgment, and when offered to establish any fact, such fact
must have constituted, in whole or in part, the foundation
of the judgment which was rendered. Greenleaf says :t "It
is only where the point in issue has been determined that the
judgment is a bar. If the suit has been discontinued, or
the plaintiff becomes nonsuit, or for any other reason there
has been no judgment of the court upon the matter in issue,
the proceedings are not conclusive." The matter must have
become resjudicata.1
* Reed v. The Proprietors, &c., 8 Howard, 291; Donaldson v. Jude,'2
Bibb, 60; 3 Bouvier's Institutes, 376.
f On Evidence,
853.
1 King v. Chase, 15 New Hampshire, 14.
VOL. XVI.

36

SMITH V). MOO00L.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

If the judgment originally rendered upon the special verdict here in question had still subsisted, the case would be a
different one. But that judgment was reversed. The reversal took away all efficacy from the verdict. It is true
this court ordered a judgment to be entered upon it in favor
of the defendant, but that was not upon the ground that the
verdict showed title in the defendant, but because it showed
there was none in the plaintiff. The judgment for the defendant followed as a matter of course. It was, in effect, a
judgment veredieo non-obstante, or of nonsuit. Instead of
giving the findings its sanction, and resting upon them as
its foundation, the judgment denied their efficacy and repelled them as immaterial. This suit was brought upon an
after-acquired title. The causes of action in the two cases
are as distinct from each other as if the latter were brought
to recover a different tract of land.
In the leading case of the Duchess of Kingston,* Lord
Chief Justice De Grey said:
"From a variety of cases relative to judgments being
given in evidence in civil suits, these two deductions seem
to follow as generally true: First, that the judgment of a
court of concurrent jurisdiction directly upon the point, is
as a plea, a bar, or as evidence conclusive between the same
parties, upon the same matter directly in question in another
court; secondly, that the judgment of the court of exclusive
jurisdiction directly upon the point, is in like manner conclusive upon the same matter, between the same parties,
coming incidentally in question in another court, for a different purpose. But neither the judgment of a concurrent
nor exclusive jurisdiction is evidence of any matter which
came collaterally in question, though within their jurisdiction, nor of any matter incidentally cognizable, nor of any
matter to be inferred from argument."
The authority of this case it is believed has never been
controverted. But what in such cases is "directly upon the
* 20 State T'nials (8vo.), 855; 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 7th

sdition, 648.

American

Dec. 1872.]

563

SMITH V. MCCoOL.
Opinion of the court.

point," "what came collaterally in question," and w-hat was
"incidentally cognizable," are questions upon which-the adjudications are wide asunder.* The cases maintaining the
broadest, and those the narrowest, views are numerous.
They are collected and ably analyzed in the American note
to -Doe v. Oliver and The -Duchess of Kingston's Case in 2
Smith's Leading Cases.t
As the proper determination of the case before us does
not require the consideration of this subject, we forbear to
enter upon its examination.
Under the circumstances we think the special verdict, and
the proceeding upon it in the case in which the verdict was
rendered, may be regarded as not unlike a demurrer to evidence. In such cases there is an admission of record of all
the ftcts proved, of those which the evidence tends to prove,
and of those which may be .fairly inferred from it. The
party demurring relies upon the law arising upon the facts
thus presented. The facts so spread on the record are
never evidefice for or against either party in another suit.
Here the special verdict performed the -same office as such
a demurrer.

-

The defendant's counsel insisted upon the legal proposition-ultimately sustained by this court-that, conceding
the facts to be as foundr-the plaintiff was not entitled to recover in that action. He may well have been, and doubtless
was, less careful to introduce his full evidence, and to contest the facts found, including the one which the verdict was
offered in this case, to prove, than he would have been but
for the confident assurance that they were all immaterial in
respect to the judgment to be given, which he claimed must
be in favor of his client.
As there could be no special plea owing to the form of
the action, the verdict, if admissible, must have been held
to work an estoppel as to all the facts found. Its effect
would have been the same as if it could have been, and had
R
Roberts v.Heim, 27 Alabama, 678; King-v.-Chase, 15 New-Hampshire,
18.

t 7th American edition, pp. 787-813.

SPECHT

v.

HOWARD.

[Sup. ot,

Syllabus.

been, specially pleaded.* This must have taken the defendant by surprise, and been very harsh in its effect. It
would, doubtless, have tended to defeat rather than promote
the ends of justice. The ruling of the court which required
the plaintiff to prove the heirship aliunde subjected him to
no hardship. If the fact were as found by the special verdict there could be no difficulty in his proving it, as it was
proved before. If the fact were otherwise, to admit the
estoppel would have involved the sacrifice of truth and justice to a technicality, and have subjected the defendant to a
grievous loss, which he ought not to be required to bear.
The parties were properly allowed to stand in the second
action in all respects upon a footing of equality, as they
stood in the first.
Upon the whole case we are of opinion that the learned
judge decided correctly in rejecting the evidence. There
are other grounds disclosed in the record, upon which, in
the view of some members of the court, a judgment of
affirmance might well be placed; but as we are unanimous
in the views expressed, it has been deemed unnecessary
fully to consider them.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

SPECHT V. HOWARD ET AL.
1. Where improper evidence has been suffered by the court to get before the
jury, it is properly afterwards withdrawn from it.
2. On a suit by the indorsee of a negotiable note which has no place of payment specified in it, against the indorser who relied on a confessedly defective demand on the maker, of payment; that is to say, on a fruitless
effort at demand, in the place where the note was dated, but in which
place the maker did not live, parol evidence that at the time when the
note was drawn, it was agreed between the maker and the indorsee that.
it should be made payable in the place where the effort to demand payment had been made, and that this place of payment had been omitted
* Dame v. Wingate, 12 New Hampshire, 2P1.

