MERRILL V. PETTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

ignated would be a literal and exact compliance with the
order. If one were to say to an intruder, "Convey yourself
away," the speaker would have no idea but that the party
should walk off; nor would the party himself expect that
anything else was meant.
Mr. H. C. _obinson, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
That the deceased was travelling is clear enough, but was
travelling on foot travelling by public or private conveyance?
The contract must receive the construction which the lan
guage used fairly warrants. What was the understanding
of the parties, or, rather, what understanding must naturally have been derived from the language used? It seems
to us that walking would not naturally be presented to the
mind as a means of public or private conveyance. Public
conveyance naturally suggests a vessel or vehicle employed
in the general conveyance of passengers. Private conveyance suggests a vehicle belonging to a private individual.
If this was the sense in which the language was understood by the parties, the deceased was not, when injured,
travelling, within the terms of the policy. There is nothing
to show that it was not.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

MERRILL V. PETTY.

An appeal on a libel in personam for a collision by the owners of a schooner
against the owners of a sloop that had been sunk in the collision, dismissed; the decree having been for $1292.84, and, therefore, "not ex.-eeding the sum or value of $2000." The fact that prior to this libel in
personam, the owners of the sloop had filed in another district a libel
in rem against the schooner, laying their damages at $4781.84, and that
in the District and Circuit Courts below, both cases might have been
hearl as one (a fact asserted by counsel but not apparent in the record),

Dec. 1872.]

MERRILL V. PETTY.
Statement of the case.

held not to affect the matter; the cases never having been brought into
the same district or circuit, nor in any manner consolidated.

ON motion to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court for
the Southern District of New York, the case was thus:
A schooner (the Mary Eveline) sailing down Hell Gate
(towards New York), came into collision with a sloop (the
Ethan Allen) sailing up (towards Connecticut), and sunk
her. The owners of each vessel blamed the officers and crew
of the other, and sought respectively relief in admiralty.
The owners of the sloop which had been sunk, accordingly
filed a libel, in rem, against the schooner in the Southern-District of New York, claiming $3489; while there being no
res for the owners of the schooner to proceed against-the
sloop being at the bottom of the East River-the owners
of the schooner were obliged to proceed personally against'
the owners of the sloop. This proceeding, which was for
$2100 damages, they instituted in the Eastern District of
New York; the suit of Petty v. Merrill.
Owing to the docket in the Eastern District being lighter
than that in the Southern, the personal proceeding was
reached first, when, as was said in one of the briefs in the
case, and not denied in the other (though the fact thus
alleged, and not denied,, did not appear in the record), both
eases by 'consent of counsel were heard together, on the
same facts and the same proofs, without however any attempt
to consolidate, in form, the two proceedings, or to transfer
the proceeding in the Southern District into the Eastern one.
fHowever heard, the result of the matter was that the libel
in rem, against the schooner (the proceeding in the Southern
District), was dismissed in that district, while in the personal proceeding (that in the Eastern District) the owners of
the sloop were there decreed .guilty in $1792.84. Decrees
were entered-in the respective District Courts, accordingly.
From both these decrees the owners of the sloop appealed to
the respective Circuit Courts of the Southern and Eastern
Districts.
When the cases got to the respective Circuit Courts, the

MERRILL V. PETTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of dismissal.

order of priority which had happened in the District Courts
was reversed, and in the Circuit Courts the proceeding in
rem-the one against the schooner (the case of The Mary
.Eveline)-was first called.* There again-more or less of
necessity-the merits of both cases were again heard on the
one appeal; and the Circuit Court for the Southern District
was-as the District Courts in both had been before-of
the opinion that the fault was with the sloop. It accordingly
affirmed the decree in its own District Court; that is to say,
it dismissed the libel.
When the appeal from the District Court of the Eastern
District in the personal proceeding (Petty v. Merrill) came
up to be heard in the Circuit Court for that district, the
Circuit Court, deeming itself concluded by the decree in
the proceeding in rem, in the Circuit Court for the Southern
District, did not hear the merits anew; but examining the
matter of damages, and reducing these to the extent of $500,
entered a final decree for $1292.84.
From both the decrees-the one in the Southern Circuit,
The Mary Eveline, and that in the Eastern, Petty v. errillthe owner of the sloop, Merrill, appealed.
The present motion to dismiss was in the appeal in the
personal proceeding, that from the Eastern District; and
was made on the ground that the amount did not exceed
the sum of $2000, and, therefore, that no appeal lay.
The reader will of course remember that by the 22d section of the Judiciary Act, the jurisdiction of this court would
attach only
"Where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of
$2000, exclusive of costs."
Mr. F. A. Wilcox, in support of the motion:
When judgment is obtained by a plaintiff or libellant the
amount in dispute is the amount of the judgment, and that
* This happened because in the decree in the personal proceeding the
matter had been referred to a master to assess damages; this delaying the
appeal in the Eastern District.

Dec. 1872.]

MERRILL V.

PETTY.

Opinion of the court.

decides the question of the right to appeal.* Here the judgment appealed from is less than $2000; it is but $1292.84.
Mr. R. H. Huntley, contra, and against the dismissal.
1. The libel in this case is in the nature of a cross-libel.
Both actions are brought to recover damages for the same
collision; the facts and the witnesses are the same; the
question to be determined is the same, viz., "Which was the
faulty vessel in the collision ?" and both causes were tried
together, and the merits of the collision in both have been
argued as one.
2. The matter in dispute means thematter for which suit
is brought, on which issue is joined, and in relation to which
jurors are called and witnesses examined.t
8. In this case the amount in dispute is found by adding
together $3489, the amount of libellant's claim in the cause
of The Mary Eveline, the libel in rem., and $1292.84, the amount
decreed by the Circuit Court to the libellants in the personal
proceeding, the cause of Petty v. Merrill, making in all the
sum of $4781.84.
4. No case can be cited, where a cross-libel had been filed
ond the damages litigated were over $2000, in which the
court denied jurisdiction.
5. If this court decides that it has discretion to entertain
1his motion, then the proper exercise of that discretion will
be to postpone the decision of this motion until the hearing
uf The Mary .Eveline, the proceeding in rem.
-Re'ply: Several claims, although the same defendant may
have to pay them, cannot be added to make jurisdiction,
although united in the same suit.1
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Power to re-examine the decrees of the Circuit Courts,
removed there by appeal from the District Courts, was cont Lee v.Watson, 1 Wallace, 837.
* Phillips's Practice, 74.
$ Rich v.Lambert, 12 Howard, 352; Oliver v.Alexander, 6 Peters, 148.

MERRILL V. PETTY.

[Sup. Ct

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

ferred upon this court by the 22d section of the Judiciary
Act, where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value
of $2000, exclusive of costs. Such decrees, however, could
only be removed here under that act by virtue of a writ of
error, but the subsequent act allowing the removal to be
made by appeal in cases of equity, of admiralty, and maritime jurisdiction, and of prize or no prize, contains the same
limitation that the matter in dispute "shall exceed the sum
or value of $2000, exclusive of costs," and also provides that
such appeals shall be subject to the same rules, regulations,
and restrictions as are prescribed in law in case of writs of
error.*
Damages are claimed by the libellants, as the owners of
the schooner Mary Eveline, against the respondents, as the
owners of the sloop Ethan Allen, in a case of collision civil
and maritime. They allege in their libel that the collision
occurred on the 20th of September, 1868, in East River,
under the following circumstances: That the schooner was
beating down the river bound for the port of New York, the
tide being ebb and the wind about southwest; that she had
taken the channel to the east of Blackwell's Island, another
schooner being just ahead of her, sailing in the same direction ; that the respective schooners had beaten out the tack
to the eastward, running as near the west shore of Long
Island as they could safely go; that the other schooner, being
ahead, went about first on the westward tack, towards the
other shore, and was just in the act of going about again on
her eastward tack as the schooner of the libellants went
about; that it became necessary for the schooner of the
libellants, in order to avoid the other schooner, to go to the
leeward and pass under the stern of the other schooner, as
she was making her westward tack, and they allege that
their schooner had just passed the stern of the other schooner
when the sloop was seen sailing up the channel to the east1 Stat. at Large, 84; 2 Id. 244; The San Pedro, 2 Wheaton, 140; United
States v. Goodwin, 7 Cranch, 111; Wiscart v. Dauchy, 3 Dallas, 328; The
Sloop Betsey, lb. 16; The Admiral, 3 Wallace, 612.

Dec. 1872.]

M/ERRILL

V. PETTY.

849.,

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

ward of Blackwell's Island, distant about a hundred yards
on the port-bow of the schooner, sailing before the wind
near the centre of the channel six or seven miles an hour,
with her mainsail and jib set and going at full speed; that the
schooner of the libellants was at that time going about and
following the other schooner, with her head to the wind,
with the head-sheets flowing and her helm hard-a-lee; that

,the sloop, instead of keeping out of the way, as she clearly
should have done, by luffing and keeping off, as she was
under full headway with her mainsail and jib set, ran into
and against the schooner of the libellants, striking her cathead against the stem of the schooner, knocking her forefoot off and splitting the stem and doing other serious damage to the schooner; that owing to the sudden and confused
orders given by those on board the sloop, keeping off and
immediately luffing, it became impossible to avoid the collision, and that the same occurred wholly through the fault
and negligence' of the sloop and of those in charge of her
navigation, and that it was not in any way the result of
fault on the part of the schooner or of those in charge of
her deck.
Service was made, and the respondents appeared and filed
an answer, in which they allege that the circumstances attending the collision are not truly stated in the libel; that
the collision did not occur through any fault, negligence, or
mismanagement of the sloop, or of those in charge of her
navigation, or through or by the sudden and confused orders
given by her officers, as charged in the libel, but solely by
reason of the fault, negligence, and mismanagement of those
in charge of the schooner; that the sloop was sailing through
East River on the east side of Blackwell's Island, against a
strong ebb-tide, the wind being south-southwest, blowing a
whole-sail breeze; that for the purpose of securing the
benefit of an eddy-tide she was standing near the shore with
her boom on her port-side; that while she was so standing
on a steady course the two schooners were standing across
the river on the same side of the island, to the westward;
the foremost and windward of the two, having beaten out

MERRILL V. PETTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

her tack, went about just abreast of the sloop at a safe distance; that the other, though to the leeward, continued on
her tack after the one ahead went about, and insuch a position as entirely prevented the sloop from luffing or avoiding
her in any other way; that she continued her course without change until she arrived at a point ahead of and off the
starboard bow of the sloop, when she put her helm down to
go about, and while in the act of luffing into the wind ran
into and upon the sloop, striking her at the cat-head, on her
starboard side, breaking and crushing in her planking, and
causing her to sink in a few minutes, and that the sloop and
her cargo became a total loss.
Testimony was taken on both sides, and the District Court,
having heard the parties, entered a decretal order in favor
of the libellants, and sent the cause to a commissioner to
report the amount of the damages. He made a report, to
which the respondents filed several exceptions, some of
which were sustained and others were overruled, and the
court entered a final decree for the libellants, as corrected,
in the sum of $1292.84 damages, and costs of suit. Appeal
was taken by the respondents to the Circuit Court, but the
Circuit Court affirmed the decree and the respondents appealed to this court.
Since the appeal was entered in this court the libellants,
as appellees, have filed a motion to dismiss the appeal, because the matter in dispute does not exceed the sum or
value of $2000, exclusive of costs, as required by the 22d
section of the Judiciary Act.
Much discussion of that question is certainly unnecessary,
as the rule in this court has been settled for the period of
sixty years, that where the writ of error is brought by the
defendant in the original action, the matter in dispute is the
amount of the judgment rendered in the Circuit Court, as
this court can only affirm the judgment rendered in that
court.*
* Gordon v. Ogden, 3 Peters, 34; Wise v. Turnpike Co., 7 Cranch, 276.

Dec. 1872.]

MERRILL V. PETTY.
Opinion of the court.

Attempt was subsequently made, it must be admitted, to
call in question the rule established in those two cases, but
this court reaffirmed the rule in the most authoritative manner, deciding as follows:
(1.) That the amount required is to be ascertained and
determined by the sum in controversy at the time of the
judgment in the Circuit Court, and not by any subsequent
additions thereto, such as interest.
(2.) That where the plaintiff sues for an amount, exceeding $2000, if by reason of any erroneous ruling of the court
below he recovers nothing, or less than that sum, the sum
claimed by the plaintiff in his writ and declaration in that
state of the case, is the sum in controversy for which a writ
of error will lie.
(3.) That if the verdict is given against the defendant for
a less sum than $2000, and judgment is rendered against
him accordingly, that, in that state of the case, nothing is in
controversy between him and the plaintiff, if the plaintiff
acquiesces in the judgment, beyond the sum for which the
judgment is given, and consequently the defendant is not
entitled to any writ of error.*
Supported as the rule suggested is by an unbroken series
of decisions throughout the period mentioned, it would
seem to be a work of supererogation to attempt to enforce
it by any extended argument, especially as the rule is a necessary deduction from the act of Congress which provides
that such jurisdiction may be exercised by this court in the
classes of cases mentioned, "where the matter in dispute
exceeds the sum or value of $2000, exclusive of costs."
Congress, it is conceded, has not expressly enacted that
final judgments and decrees in such cases shall not be reexamined here where the maatter in dispute does not exceed
* Knapp v. Banks, 2 Howard, 73; Winston v. United States, 3 Id. 771;
IRogers v. St. Charles, 19 Id. 112; Udall v. The Ohio, 17 Id. 17; Olney
v. The Falcon, Ib. 19; Gruner v. United States, 11 Id. 163; Brown v.
Shannon, 20 Id. 55; Oliver v. Alexander, 6 Peters, 143 ; Spear v. Place, 11
Howard, 522; Rich v. Lambert, 12 Id. 347; Clifton v. Sheldon, 23 Id. 481;
Sampson v. Welsh, 24 Id. 207; Seaver v. Bigelows, 5 Wallace, 208.

ME

ILL C. PETTY.

ESup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the sum or value mentioned, but inasmuch as the appellate
power of the court is conferred by the Constitution, with
such exceptions and under such regulations as Congress
shall make, the rule of construction is that the negative of
any other jurisdiction in that respect is implied from the intent manifested by the affirmative description contained in
that section of the Judiciary Act.*
Opposed to this conclusion is the statement in the answer
that the respondents, before the present suit was commenced,
filed a libel in the District Court for the Southern District
of New York for the same collision against the schooner
and all persons intervening in the suit, and the suggestion
of the respondents in this suit is that the libel in this case is
in the nature of a cross-libel, and that the amount in dispute
should be ascertained by adding to the sum allowed as damages in the decree in this case the amount of the libellants'
claim in the libel in the other case, which was filed and the
decree entered in the District Court for another district in
the same circuit. Various reasons are mentioned in argument to show that the suggestion of the respondents may
be adopted, but none of them have the supbort of any authority, nor do the counsel refer to any case as a precedent
to warrant such a proceeding. Some of the reasons given
are as follows:
(1.) That it was agreed between the parties that the two
cases should be heard together, but the record contains no
evidence of such an agreement, and if it did it could not
avail the respondents, as it is settled law that consent cannot give jurisdiction. Several casest expressly decide that
the agreement of the parties cannot authorize this court to
revise a judgment of an inferior court in any other mode of
proceeding than that which the law prescribes.1
(2.) That the two cases were heard at the same time, before the District Court of the Eastern District, where this
* Durousseau v. United States, 6 Oranch, 318.

t Scott v. Sandford, 19 Howard, 393; Kelsey v. Forsyth, 21 Id. 85;
Montgomery v. Anderson, 21 Id. 386.
1 Mordecai v. Lindsay, 19 Id. 200.

Dec. 1872.]

MERRILL V. PETTY.
Opinion of the court

libel was pending. But that was a mere oral arrangement
between the parties to expedite a decision, which neither
did nor could have the effect to withdraw the other libel
from the jurisdiction of the District Court in which the suit
was commenced. One was a proceeding in rem and the
other was a suit in personam, and it does not appear that any
attempt was made to consolidate them or to discontinue one
and transfer it into the court where the other was pending.
On the contrary, though they were both heard at the same
time, it appears that separate decrees were entered, each in
the respective District Court where the suit was commenced.
Separate appeals were also taken by the losing party in the
District Court where the decree was entered, and the two
appeals were separately entered on the calendar of this court.
Two suits, commenced and prosecuted as described, cannot be blended in this court without an open violation of the
rule laid down by the late Chief Justice Taney, that "parties
cannot authorize this court to revise a judgment of an inferior court in any other mode of proceeding than that which
the law prescribes."*
They were not heard together in the Circuit Court, as
this suit was still before the commissioner, but the suggeslion is that the merits in both suits were by consent discussed at the same time. Suppose that is so, still the fact
remains that the respective decrees of affirmance were entered at different times and of course in the respective districts where the appeals from the respective District Courts
were pending. Nothing was done to consolidate the suits
and separate appeals were allowed to this court.
Evidently this court has no jurisdiction, as the matter in
dispute, exclusive of costs, is less than $2000.
DISMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

[See the next case, in which it was decided that the fault was not with the
sloop, but with the schooner; the decree from which the appeal in the preceding case was taken being thus practically reversed.]
* Kelsey v. Forsyth, 21 Howard, 88.

