SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

[Sup. Ct

CASES.

Syllabus.

It is said, however, she has been mulcted in excessive
damages. The District Court and the Circuit Court concurred in the assessment made, and we do not perceive
that more was allowed to the libellants than the evidence
warranted. When both the lower courts have agreed ia
their estimate of the damages, we ought not to set aside
their conclusions without satisfactory evidence that they
were mistaken. We have no such evidence before us.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

v. THE CRESCENT C=
LIvE-STocK LANDING AND SLAUGHTER-HOUSE COMPANY.

THE BUTCHERS' BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION Or NEW ORLEANS

PAUL ESTEREN, L. RUCH, J. P. ROUEDE, W. MAYLIE, S. FIRBERG, B. BEAUBAY, WILLIAII
FAGAN, J. D. BRODERICK, N. SEIBEL, M. LANNES, J. GITZINGER, 3. P. AyCocE, ).
VERGES, THE LIvE-STocK DEALERS' AND BUTCHERS' ASSOCIATION OF NEW ORLEANS,
AND CHARLES CAVAROC

v. THE STATE OF LOUISIANA, ex re.

S. BELDEN, ATTORNEY-

GENERAL.

THE BUTCHERS' BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION Or NEW ORLEANS v. THE.CRESCENT CITY

LIVE-STOCK LANDING AND SLAUGHTER-HOUSE COMPANY.
1. The legislature of Louisiana, on the 8th of March, 1869, passed an act
granting to a corporation, created by it, the exclusive right, for twentyfive years, to have and maintain slaughter-houses, landings for cattle,
and yards for inclosing cattle intended for sale or slaughter within
the parishes of Orleans, Jefferson, and St. Bernard, in that State (a
territory which, it was said,-see infra, p. 85,-contained 1154 square
miles, including the city of New Orleans, and a population of between
two and three hundred thousand people), and prohibiting all other persons from building, keeping, or having slaughter-houses, landings for
cattle, and yards for cattle intended for sale or slaughter, within those
limits; and requiring that all cattle and other animals intended for sale
or slaughter in that district, should be brought to the yards and
slaughter-houses of the corporation; and authorizing the corporation
to exact certain prescribed fees for the use of its wharves and for each
animal landed, and certain prescribed fees for each animal slaughtered,
besides the head, feet, gore, and entrails, except of swine: Held, that
this grant of exclusive right or privilege, guarded by proper limitation
of the prices to be charged, and imposing the duty of providing ample
conveniences, with permission to all owners of stock to land, and of all

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-ROUSE

OASES.

Syllabus.
butchers to slaughter at those places, was a police regulation for the
health and comfort of the people (the statute locating them where health
and comfort required), within the power of the State legislatures, unaffected by the Constitution of the United States previous to the adoption
of the thirteenth and fourteenth articles of amendment.
2. The Parliament of Great Britain and the State legislatures of this country
have always exercised the power of granting exclusive rights when they
were necessary and proper to effectuate a purpose which had in view the
public good, and the power here exercised is of that class, and has until
now never been denied.
Such power is not forbidden by the thirteenth article of amendment and
by the first section of the fourteenth article. An examination of the
history of the causes which led to the adoption of those amendments and
of the amendments themselves, demonstrates that the main purpose of
all the three last amendments was the freedom of the African race, the
security and perpetuation of that freedom, and their protection from
the oppressions of the white men who had formerly held them in slavery.
S. In giving construction to any of those articles it is necessary to keep this
main purpose steadily in view, though the letter and spirit of those articles must apply to all cases coming within their purview, whether the
party concerned be of African descent or not.
'While the thirteenth article of amendment was intended primarily to
abolish African slavery, it equally forbids Mexican peonage or the Chinese coolie trade, when they amount to slavery or involuntary servitude; and the use of the word "servitude" is intended to prohibit all
forms of involuntary slavery of whatever class or name.
The first clause of the fourteenth article was primarily intended to confer
citizenship on the negro race, and secondly to give definitions of citizenship of the United States, and citizenship of the States, and it recognizes the distinction between citizenship of a State and citizenship of
the United States by those definitions.
The second clause protects from the hostile legislation of the States the
privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States as distinguished
from the privileges and immunities of citizens of the States.
These latter, as defined by Justice Washington in Corfield v. Coryell, and
by. this court in Ward v. Maryland, embrace generally those fundamental civil rights for the security and establishment of which organized society is instituted, and they remain, with certain exceptions
mentioned in the Federal Constitution, under the care of the State governments, and of this class are those set up by plaintiffs.
4. The privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States are those
which arise out of the nature and essential character of the National
government, the provisions of its Constitution, or its laws and treaties
made in pursuance thereof; and it is these which are placed under the
protection of Congress by this clause of the fourteenth amendment.
It is not necessary to inquire here into the full force of the clause forbidding a State to enforce any law which deprives a person of life, liberty,

38

SLAUGHTER-HousE CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
or property without due process of law, for that phrase has been often
the subject of judicial construction, and is, under no admissible view
of it, applicable to the present case.
5 The clause which forbids a State to deny to any person the equal protection of the laws was clearly intended to prevent the hostile discrimination against the negro race so familiar in the States where he had been
u slave, and for this purpose the clause confers ample power in Congress
to secure his rights and his equality before the law.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
The three cases-the parties to which as plaintiffs and defendants in error, are given specifically as a sub-title, at the
head of this report, but which are reported together also
under the general name which, in common parlance, they
had acquired-grew out of an act of the legislature of the
State of Louisiana, entitled: "An act to protect the health of
the City of iVew Orleans, to locate the stock landings and slaughterhouses, and to incorporate ' The Crescent City Live-Stock Landing and Slaughter-House Company,"' which was approved on
the 8th of March, 1869, and went into operation on the 1st
of June following; and the three cases were argued together.
The act was as follows:
"SEcTION 1. Be it enacted, &c., That from and after the first
day of June, A.D. 1869, it shall not be lawful to land, keep, or
slaughter any cattle, beeves, calves, sheep, swine, or other animals, or to have, keep, or establish any stock-landing, yards,
pens, slaughter-houses, or abattoirs at any point or place within
the city of New Orleans, or the parishes of Orleans, Jefferson, and
St. Bernard, or at any point or place on the east bank of the
Mississippi River within the corporate limits of the city of New
Orleans, or at any point on the west bank of the Mississippi

River, above the present depot of the New Orleans, Opelousas,

and Great Western Railroad Company, except that the 'Crescent
City Stock Landing and Slaughter-House Company' may establish themselves at any point or place as hereinafter provided.
Any person or persons, or corporation or company carrying on
any business or doing any act in contraveDtion of this act, or

landing, slaughtering or keeping any animal or animals in violation of this act, shall be liable to a fine of $250, for each and

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

OASES.

Statement of the case.

every violation, the same to be recoverable, with costs of suit,
before any court of competent jurisdiction."
The second section of the act created one Sanger and
sixteen other persons named, a corporation, with the usual
privileges of a corporation, and including power to appoint
officers, and fix their compensation and term of office, and
to fix the amount of the capital stock of the corporation and
the number of shares thereof.
The act then went on:
" SECTION 3. Be it further enacted, &c., That said company or
corporation is hereby authorized to establish and erect at its
own expense, at any point or place on the east bank of the Mississippi River within the parish of St. Bernard, or in the corporate limits of the city of New Orleans, below the United
States Barracks, or at any point or place on the west bank of
the Mississippi River below the present depot of the New Orleans, Opelousas, and Great Western Railroad Company, wharves,
stables, sheds, yards, and buildings necessary to land, stable,
shelter, protect, and preserve-all kinds of horses, mules, cattle,
and other animals; and from and after the time such buildings,
yards, &c., are ready and complete for business, and notice
thereof is given in the official journal of the State, the said
Crescent City Live-Stock Landing and Slaughter-House Company shall have the sole and exclusive privilege of conducting and
carryingon the live-stock landing and slaughter-housebusiness within
the limits and privileges granted by the provisions of this act; and
cattle and other animals destined for sale or slaughter in the
city of New Orleans, or its environs, shall be landed at the livestock landings and yards of said company, and shall be yarded,
sheltered, and protected, if necessary, by said company or corporation; and said company or corporation shall be entitled to
have and receive for each steamship landing at the wharves of
the said company or corporation, $10; for each steamboat or
other water craft, $5; and for each horse, mule, bull, ox, or cow
landed at their wharves, for each and every day kept, 10 cents;
for each and every hog, calf, sheep. ur goat, for each and every
day kept, 5 cents, all without including the feed; and said company or corporation shall be entitled to keep and detain each
and all of said animals until said charges are fully paid. But

SLAUGHTER-HousE CASES.

[Slip. Ot.

Statement of the case.

if the charges of landing, keeping, and feeding any of the aforesaid animals shall not be paid by the owners thereof after fifteen
days of their being landed and placed in the custody of the said
company or corporation, then the said company or corporation,
in order to reimburse themselves for charges and expenses incurred, shall have power, by resorting to judicial proceedings,
to advertise said animals for sale by auction, in any two newspapers published in the city of New Orleans, for five days; and
after the expiration of said five days, the said company or
corporation may proceed to sell by auction, as advertised, the
said animals, and the proceeds of such sales shall be taken by
the said company or corporation, and applied to the payment
of the charges and expenses aforesaid, and other additional
costs; and the balance, if any, remaining from such sales, shall
be held to the credit of and paid to the order or receipt of the
owner of said animals. Any person or persons, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this act, or interfering
with the privileges herein granted, or landing, yarding, or keeping any animals in violation of the provisions of this act, or to
the injury of said company or corporation, shall be liable to a
fine or penalty of $250, to be recovered with costs of suit before
any court of competent jurisdiction.
"The company shall, before the first of June, 1869, build and
complete A GRAND SLAUGHTER-UOUSE of sufficient capacity to
accommodate all butchers, and in which to slaughter 500 animals per day; also a sufficient number of sheds and stables shall
be erected before the date afbrementioned, to accommodate all
the stock received at this port, all of which to be accomplished
before the date fixed for the removal of the stock landing, as
provided in the first section of this act, under penalty of a forfeiture of their charter.
"SECTION 4. Be it further enacted, &c., That the said company
Or corporation is hereby authorized to erect, at its own expense, one or more landing-places for live stock, as aforesaid, at
any points or places consistent with the provisions of this act,
and to have and enjoy from the completion thereof, and after
the first day of Jane, A.D. 1869, the exclusive privilege of having
landed at their wharves or landing-places all animals intended for
sale or slaughter in the parishes of Orleans and Jefferson; and are
hereby also authorized (in connection) to erect at its own expen-e one or more slaughter-houses, at any points or places

Dec.. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-flOUSE OASES.
Statement of the case.

consistent with the provisions of this act, and to have and enjoy,
from the completion thereof and after the first day of June,
A.D. 1869, the exclusive privilege of having slaughtered therein all
animals, the meat of which is destined for sale in the parishes of
Orleans and Jefferson.
"SECTION 5. Be it further enacted, &c., That whenever said
slaughter-houses and accessory buildings shall be completed and
thrown open for the use of the public, said company or corporation shall immediately give public notice for thirty days, in the
official journal ofthe State, and within said thirty days' notice, and
within, from and after the first day of June, A.D. 1869, all other
stock landings and slaughter-houseswithin the parishesof Orleans,
Jefferson, and St. Bernard shall be closed, and it will no longer be
Zawful to slaughter cattle, hogs, calves, sheep, or goats, the meat of
which is determined for sale within the parishes aforesaid, under a
penalty of $100, for each and every offence, recoverable, with costs
of suit, before any court of competent jurisdiction; that all animals
to be slaughtered, the meat whereof is determinedfor sale in the parishes of Orleans or Jefferson, must be slaughtered in the slaughterhouses erected by the said company or corporation; and upon a
refusal of said company or corporation to allow any animal or
animals to be slaughtered after the same has been certified by
the inspector, as hereinafter provided, to be fit for human food,
the said company or corporation shall be subject to a fine in
each case of $250, recoverable, with costs of suit, before any
court of competent jurisdiction; said fines and penalties to be
paid over to the auditor of public accounts, which sum or sums
shall be credited to the educational fund.
"SECTION 6. Be it further enacted, &c., That the governor of
the State of Louisiana shall appoint a competent person, clothed
with police powers, to act as inspector of all stock that is to be
slaughtered, and whose duty it will be to examine closely all
animals intended to be slaughtered, to ascertain whether they
are sound and fit for human food or not; and if sound and fit
for human food, to furnish a certificate stating that fact, to the
owners of the animals inspected; and without said certificate
no animals can be slaughtered for sale in the slaughter-houses
of said company or corporation. The owner of said animals so
inspectQd to pay the inspector 10 cents for each and every animal so inspected, one-half of which fee the said inspector shall
retain for his services, and the other half of said fee shall be

SLAUGHTER-HousE CASES.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.
paid over to the auditor of public accounts, said payment to be
made quarterly. Said inspector shall give a good and sufficient
bond to the State, in the sum of $5000, with sureties subject to
the approval of the governor of the State of Louisiana, for the
faithful performance of his duties. Said inspector shall be fined
for dereliction of duty $50 for each neglect. Said inspector
may appoint as many deputies as may be necessary. The half
of the fees collected as provided above, and paid over to the
auditor of public accounts, shall be placed to the credit of the
educational fund.
"SE TION 7. Be it further enacted, &c.,That all persons slaughtering or causing to be slaughtered, cattle or other animals in
said slaughter-houses, shall pay to the said company or corporation the following rates or perquisites, viz.: For all beeves,
$1 each; for all hogs and calves, 50 cents each; for all sheep,
goats, and lambs, 30 cents each; and the said company or corporation shall be entitled to the head, feet, gore, and entrails of all
animals excepting hogs, entering the slaughter-houses and killed
therein, it being understood that the heart and liver are not considered as a part of the gore and entrails, and that the said heart
and liver of all animals slaughtered in the slaughter-houses of
the said company or corporation shall belong, in all cases, to
the owners of the animals slaughtered.
"SECTION 8. Be it further enacted, &c., That all the fines and
penalties incurred for violations of this act shall be recoverable
in a civil suit before any court of competent jurisdiction, said
suit to be brought and prosecuted by said company or corporation in all cases where the privileges granted to the said company or corporation by the provisions of this act are violated or
interfered with; that one-half of all the fines and penalties recovered by the said company or corporation [Sic in copy-REP.],
in consideration of their prosecuting the violation of this act,
and the other half shall be paid over to the auditor of public
accounts, to the credit of the educational fund.
"SE cIoN 9. Be it further enacted, &c., That said Crescent City
Live-Stock Landing and Slaughter-House Company shall have
the right to construct a railroad from their buildings to the limits
of the city of' New Orleans, and shall have the right to run cars
thereon, drawn by horses or other locomotive power, as they
may see fit; said railroad to be built on either of the public
roads running along the levee on each side of the Mississippi

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Statement of the case.

River. The said company or corporation shall also have the
right to establish such steam ferries as they may see fit to run
on the Mississippi River between their buildings and any points
or places on either side of said river.
"SECTION 10. Be it further enacted, &c.,

That at the expiration

of twenty-five years from and after the passage of this act the
privileges herein granted shall expire."
The parish of Orleans containing (as was said*) an area
of 150 square miles; the parish of Jefferson of 384; and the
parish of St. Bernard of 620; the three parishes together
1154 square miles, and they having between two and three
hundred thousand people resident therein, and prior to the
passage of the act above quoted, about 1000 persons employed daily in the business of procuring, preparing, and
selling animal food, the passage of the act necessarily produced great feeling. Some hundreds of suits were brought
on the one side or on the other; the butchers, not included
in the "monopoly" as it was called, acting sometimes in
combinations, in corporations, and companies, and sometimes by themselves; the same counsel, however, apparently
representing pretty much all of them. The ground of the
opposition to the slaughter-house company's pretensions,
so far as any cases were finally passed on in this court was,
that the act of the Louisiana legislature made a monopoly
and was a violation of the most important provisions of the
thirteenth and fourteenth Articles of Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States. The language relied on
of these articles is thus:
AMENDMENT

XIII.

"1eitherslavery nor involuntary servitude except as a punishment for crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, nor anyplace subject
to their jurisdiction."
AMENDMENT XIV.

"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States
and of the State wherein they reside.
* See infra,pp. 85, 86.

44

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE CASES.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the monopoly.
,INo State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, nor
shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law, nor deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."

The Supreme Court of Louisiana decided in favor of the
company, and five of the cases came into this court under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act in December, 1870;
where they were the subject of a preliminary motion by the
plaintiffs in error for an order in the nature of a supersedeas.
After this, that is to say, in March, 1871, a compromise was
sought to be effected, and certain parties professing, apparently, to act in a representative way in behalf of the opponents to the company, referring to a compromise that they
assumed had been effected, agreed to discontinue "all writs
of error concerning the said company, now pending in the
Supreme Court of the United States;" stipulating further
"that their agreement should be sufficient authority for any
attorney to appear and move for the dismissal of all said
suits." Some of the cases were thus confessedly dismissed.
But the three of which the names are given as a sub-title at
the head of this report were, by certain of the butchers,
asserted not to have been dismissed. And Messrs. H. H.
Carpenter,J. S. Black, and TP.J. -Durant,in behalf of the new
-corporation,having moved to dismiss them also as embraced
in the agreement, affidavits were filed on the one side and
,on the other; the affidavits of the butchers opposed to the
"monopoly" affirming that they were plaintiffs in error in
these three cases, and that they never consented to what had
been done, and that no proper authority had been given
to do it. This matter was directed to be heard with the
merits. The case being advanced was first heard on these,
January 11th, 1872; Mr. Justice Nelson being indisposed
and not in his seat. Being ordered for reargument, it was
heard again, February 3d, 4th, and 5th, 1873.
Mr. John A. Campbell, and also Mr. J. Q. A. Fellows, argued (he case at much length and on the authorities, in behalf of

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

OASES.

Argument against the monopoly.

the plaintiffs in error. The reporter cannot pretend to give
more than such an abstract of the argument as may show
to what the opinion of the court was meant to be responsive.
I. The learned counsel quoting Thiers,* contended that
"the right to one's self, to one's own faculties, physical and
intellectual, one's own brain, eyes, hands, feet, in a word to
his soul and body, was an incontestable right; one of whose
enjoyment and exercise by its owner no one could complain, and one which no one could take away. More than
this, the obligation to labor was a duty, a thing ordained of
God, and which if submitted to faithfully, secured a blessing to the human family." Quoting further from Turgot,
De Tocqueville, Buckle, Dalloz, Leiber, Sir G. 0. Lewis,
and others, the counsel gave a vivid and very interesting
account of the condition and grievances of the lower orders
in various countries of Europe, especially in France, with its
banali6s and ".seigneurs justiciers," during those days when
"the prying eye of the government followed the butcher to
the shambles and the baker to the oven;" when "the peasant
could not cross a river without paying to some nobleman a
toll, nor take the produce which he raised to market until
he had bought leave to do so; nor consume what remained
of his grain till he had sent it to the lord's mill to be ground,
nor full his cloths on his own works, nor sharpen his tools
at his own grindstone, nor make wine, oil, or cider at hisown press;" the days of monopolies; monopolies which fobl
lowed men in their daily avocations, troubled them with its
meddling spirit, and worst of all diminished their responsibility to themselves. Passing from Scotland, in which the
cultivators of each barony or regality were obliged to pay a
"multure" on each stack of hay or straw reaped by the
farmer-" thirlage" or "thraldom," as it was called-and
when lands were subject to an "astriction" astricting them
and their inhabitants to particular mills for the grinding of
grain that was raised on them, and coming to Great Britain,
the counsel adverted to the reigns of Edward III, and Rich* De la Proprit6, 36, 47.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup.

Or.

Argument against the monopoly.

ard II, and their successors, when the price of labor was
fixed by law, and when every able-bodied man and woman,
not being a merchant or craftsman, was "bounden" to serve
at the wages fixed, and when to prevent the rural laborer
from seeking the towns he was forbidden to leave his own
village. It was in England that the earliest battle for civil
liberty had been made. Macaulay thus described it:*
"It was in the Parliament of 1601, that the opposition which
had, during forty years, been silently gathering and husbanding
strength, fought its first great battle and won its first victory.
The ground was well chosen. The English sovereigns had
always been intrusted with the supreme direction of commercial
police. It was their undoubted prerogative to regulate coins,
weights, measures, and to appoint fairs, markets, and ports.
The line which bounded their authority over trade, had, as usual,
been but loosely drawn. They therefore, as usual, encroached
on the province which rightfully belonged to the legislature.
The encroachment was, as usual, patiently borne, till it became
serious. But at length the Queen took upon herself to grant
patents of monopoly by scores. There was scarcely a family
in the realm that did not feel itself aggrieved by the oppression
and extortion which the abuse naturally caused. Iron, oil,
vinegar, coal, lead, starch, yarn, leather, glass, could be bought
only at exorbitant prices. The House of Commons met in an
angry and determined mood. It was in vain that a courtly mipority blamed the speaker for suffering the acts of the Queen's
highness to be called in question. The language of the discontented party was high and menacing, and was echoed by the
voice of the whole nation. The coach of the chief minister of
the crown was surrounded by an indignant populace, who cursed
monopolies, and exclaimed that the prerogative should not be
allowed to touch the old liberties of England."
Macaulay proceeded to say that the Queen's reign was in
danger of a shameful and disgraceful end, but that she, with
admirable judgment, declined the contest and redressed the
grievance, and in touching language thanked the Commons
for their tender care of the common weal.
* History of England, vol. 1, p. 58.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HousE OASES.
Argument against the monopoly.

The great grievance of our ancestors about the time that
they largely left England, was this very subject. Sir John
Culpeper, in a speech in the Long Parliament, thus spoke
of these monopolies and pollers of the people:
"They are a nest of wasps-a swarm of vermin which have
overerept the land. Like the frogs of Egypt they have gotten
possession of our dwellings, and we have scarce a room free
from them. They sup in our cup; they dip in our dish; they
sit by our fire. We find them in the dye-fat, wash-bowl, and
powdering-tub. They share with the butler in his box. They
will not bait us a pin. We may not buy our clothes without
their brokage. These are the leeches that have sucked the
commonwealth so hard that it is almost hectical. Mr. Speaker!
I have echoed to you the cries of the Kingdom. I will tell you
their hopes. They look to Heaven for a blessing on this Parliament."
Monopolies concerning wine, coal, salt, starch, the dressing of meat in taverns, beavers, belts, bone-lace, leather,
pins, and other things, to the gathering of rags, are referred
to in this speech.
But more important than these discussions in Parliament
were the solemn judgments of the courts of Great Britain.
The great and leading case was that reported by Lord Coke,
The Case of Monopolies.* The patent was granted to Darcy
to buy beyond the sea all such playing-cards as he thought
good, and to utter and sell them within the kingdom, and
that he and his agents and deputies should have the whole
trade, traffic, and merchandise of playing-cards, and that
another person and none other should have the making of
playing-cards within the realm. A suit was brought against
a citizen of London for selling playing-cards, and he pleaded
that being a citizen free of the city he had a right to do so.
And"Resolved (Popham, O.I.) per totam Curiam, that the said
grant of the plaintiff of the sole making of cards within the
realm, was utterly void, and for two reasons:
* 11 Reports, 85.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the monopoly.

"1. That it is a monopoly and against the common law.
"2. That it is against divers acts of Parliament."
[The learned counsel read Sir Edward Coke's report of
the judgment in this case, which was given fully in the brief
at length, seeking to apply it to the eases before the court.]
It was from a country which had been thus oppressed by
monopolies that our ancestors came. And a profound conviction of the truth of the sentiment already quoted from
M. Thiers-that every man has a right to his own faculties,
physical and intellectual, and that this is a right, one of
which no one can complain, and no one deprive him-was
at the bottom of the settlement of the country by them.
Accordingly, free competition in business, free enterprise,
the absence of all exactions by petty tyranny, of all spoliation of private right by public authority-the suppressiou
of sinecures, monopolies, titles of nobility, and exemption
from legal duties-were exactly what the colonists sought
for and obtained by their settlement here, their long contest
with physical evils that attended the colonial condition, their
struggle for independence, and their efforts, exertions, and
sacrifices since.
Now, the act of the Louisiana legislature was in the face
of all these principles; it made it unlawful for men to use
their own land for their own purposes; made it unlawful to
any except the seventeen of this company to exercise a lawful and necessary business for which others were as competent as they, for which at least one thousand persons in the
three parishes named had qualified themselves, had framed
their arrangements in life, had invested their property, and
had founded all their hopes of success on earth. The act was
a pure MONOPOLY; as such against common right, and void
at the common law of England. And it was equally void by
our own law. The case of The Norwich Gaslight Company v.
The Norwich City Gaslight Company,* a case in Connecticut,
and more pointedly still, The City of Chicago v. Bumpfft a
case in Illinois, and The Mayor of the City of Hudson v. Thorne,.
*25 Connecticut, 19.

t- 45 Illinois, 90.

$: 7 Paige, 261.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTEIR-HOUSE CASES.
Argument against the monopoly.

a case in New York, were in entire harmony with Coke's
great case, and declared that monopolies are against common
right.*
How, indeed, do authors and inventors maintain a monopoly in even the works of their own brain? in that which
in a large sense may be called their own. Only through a
provision of the Constitution preserving such works to them.
Many State constitutions have denounced monopolies by
name, and it is certain that every species of exclusive privilege is an offence to the people, and that popular aversior
to them does but increase the more largely that they art
granted.
II. But if this monopoly were not thus void at common law, tt
would be so under both the thirteenth and the fourteenth amend.
ments.
The thirteenth amendment prohibits "slavery and involuntary servitude." The expressions are ancient ones, and
were familiar even before the time when they appeared in
the great Ordinance of 1787, for the government of our vast
Northwestern Territory; a territory from which great States
were to arise. In that ordinance they are associated with
enactments affording comprehensive protection for life, liberty, and property; for the spread of religion, morality, and
knowledge; for maintaining the inviolability of contracts,
the freedom of navigation upon the public rivers, and the
unrestrained conveyance of property by contract and devise,
and for equality of children in the inheritance of patrimonial
estates. The ordinance became a law after Great Britain,
in form the most popular government in Europe, had been
expelled from that territory because of "injuries and usurpations having in direct object the establishment of an absolute tyranny over the States." Feudalism at that time
prevailed in nearly all the kingdoms of Europe, and serfdom and servitude and feudal service depressed their people
to the level of slaves. The prohibition of "slavery and involuntary servitude" in every form and degree, except as a
The statement of these cases being made, infra, pp. 106-109, in the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Field, is nothere given.
VOL. XVI.

4

SLAUGHTER-H USE CASES.

[Sup. (it.

Argument against the monopoly.

sentence upon a conviction for crime, comprises much more
than the abolition or prohibition of African slavery. Slavery
in the annals of the world had been the ultimate solution
of controversies between the creditor and debtor; the conqueror and his captive; the father and his child; the state
and an offender against its laws. The laws might enslave
a man to the soil. The whole of Europe in 1787 was
crowded with persons who were held as vassals to their landlord, and serfs on his dominions. The American constitution for that great territory was framed to abolish slavery
and involuntary servitude in all forms, and in all degrees in
which they have existed among men, except as a punishment for crime duly proved and adjudged.
Now, the act of which we complain has made of three
parishes of Louisiana "enthralled ground." "The seventeen" have astricted not only the inhabitants of those parishes, but of all other portions of the earth who may have
cattle or animals for sale or for food, to land them at the
wharves of that company (if brought to that territory), to
keep them in their pens, yards, or stables, and to prepare
them for market in their abattoir or slaughter-house. Lest
some competitor may present more tempting or convenient
arrangements, the act directs that all of these shall be closed
on a particular day, and prohibits any one from having,
keeping, or establishing any other; and a peremptory command is given that all animals shall be sheltered, preserved,
and protected by this corporation, and by none other, under
heavy penalties.
Is not this "a servitude ?" Might it not be so considered
in a strict sense ? It is like the "thirlage" of the old Scotch
law and the banalits of seignioral France; which were servitudes undoubtedly. But, if not strictly a servitude, it is
certainly a servitude in a more popular sense, and, being an
enforced one, it is an involuntary servitude. Men are surely
subjected to a servitude when, throughout three parishes,
embracing 1200 square miles, every man and every woman
in them is compelled to refrain from the use of their own
land and exercise of their own industry and the improve-

Dec.1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HoUSE

OASES.

Argument against the monopoly.

ment of their own property, in a way confessedly lawful and
necessary in itself, and made unlawful and unnecessary only
because, at their cost, an exclusive privilege is granted to
seventeen other persons to improve and exercise it for them.
We have here the "servients" and the "dominants" and the
"thraldom" of the old seignioral system. The servients in
this case are all the inhabitants in any manner using animals
brought to the markets for sale or for slaughter. The dominants are "the seventeen" made into a corporation, with
these seignioral rights and privileges. The masters are these
seventeen, who alone can admit or refuse other members to
their corporation. The abused persons are the community,
who are deprived of what was a common right and bound
under a thraldom.
HI. The act is even more plainly in the face of the fourteenth
amendment. That amendment was a development of the
thirteenth, and is a more comprehensive e4osition of the
principles which lie at the foundation of the thirteenth.
Slavery had been abolished as the issue of the civil war.
More than three millions of a populati6n lately servile, were
liberated without preparation for any political or civil duty.
Besides this population of emancipated slaves, there was a
large and growing population who came to this country
without education in the laws and constitution of the country, and who had begun to exert a perceptible influence over
our government. There were also a large number of unsettled and difficult questions of State and N~ational right
that had no other settlement or solution but what the war
had afforded. It had been maintained from the origin of
the Constitution, by one political party-men of a high order
of ability, and who exerted a great influence-that the State
was the highest political organization in the United States;
that through the consent of the separate States the Union
had been formed for limited purposes; that there was no
social union except by and through the States, and that in
extreme cases the several States might cancel the obligations
to the Federal government and reclaim the allegiance and
fidelity of its members. - Such were the doctrines of Mr.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument against the monopoly.

Calhoun, and of others; both those who preceded and those
who have followed him. It is nowhere declared in the Constitution what "a citizen" is, or what constitutes citizenship; and what ideas were entertained of citizenship by one
class in our country may be seen in the South Carolina case
of .Huntv. The State, where Harper, J., referring to the arguments of Messrs. Petigru, Blanding, McWillie, and Williams-men eminent in the South as jurists-who were opposing nullification, says:
"It has been admitted in argument by all the counsel except
one, that in case of a secession by the State from the Union,
the citizens and constituted authorities would be bound to obey
and give effect to the act."
But the fourteenth amendment does define citizenship
and the relations of citizens to the State and Federal government. It ordains that "all persons born or naturalized
in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof
are citizens of the United States and of the State where they
reside." Citizenship in a State is made by residence and
without reference to the consent of the State. Yet, by the
same amendment, when it exists, no State can abridge its
privileges or immunities. The doctrine of the "StatesRights party," led in modern times by Mr. Calhoun, was,
that there was no citizenship in the whole United States,
except sub modo and by the permission of the States. According to their theory the United States had no integral
existence except as an incomplete combination among several integers. The fourteenth amendment struck at, and
forever destroyed, all such doctrines. It seems to have been
made under an apprehension of a destructive faculty in the
State governments. It consolidated the several "integers"
into a consistent whole. Were there Brahmans in Massachusetts, "the chief of all creatures, and with the universe
held in charge for them," and Soudras in Pennsylvania,
"who simply had life through the benevolence of the other,"
this amendment places them on the same footing. By it
the national principle has received an indefinite enlarge.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE CASES.
Argument against the monopoly.

ment. The tie between the United States and every citizen
in every part of its own jurisdiction has been made intimate
and familiar. To the same extent the confederate features
of the government have been obliterated. The States in
their closest connection with the members of the State, have
been placed under the oversight and restraining and enforcing hand of Congress. The purpose is manifest, to establish
through the whole jurisdiction of the United States ONE
PEOPLE, and that every member of the empire shall understand and appreciate the fact that his privileges and immunities cannot be abridged by State authority; that State
laws must be so framed as to secure life, liberty, property
from arbitrary violation and secure protection of law to all.
Thus, as the great personal rights of each and every person
were established and guarded, a reasonable confidence that
there would be good government might seem to be justified.
The amendment embodies all that the statesmanship of the
country has conceived for accommodating the Constitution
and the institutions of the country to the vast additions of
territory, increase of the population, multiplication of States
end Territorial governments, the annual influx of aliens, and
.the mighty changes produced by revolutionary events, and
by social, industrial, commercial development. It is an act
<if Union, an act to determine the reciprocal relations of
I he millions of population within the bounds of the United
,6tates-the numerous State governments and the entire
United States administered by a common government-that
they might mutually sustain, support, and co-operate for the
promotion of peace, security, and the assurance of property
and liberty.
Under it the fact of citizenship does not depend upon
parentage, family, nor upon the historical division of the
land into separate States, some of whom had a glorious history, of which its members were justly proud. Citizenship
is assigned to, nativity in any portion of the United States,
and every person so born is a citizen. The naturalized person acquires citizenship of the same kind without any action
of the State at all. So either may by this title of citizenship

SLAUGHTER-HousE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the monopoly.

make his residence at any place in the United States, and
under whatever form of State administration, he must be
treated as a citizen of that State. His "privileges and immunities" must not be impaired, and all the privileges of
the English Magna Charta in favor of freemen are collected
upon him and overshadow him as derived from this amendment. The States must not weaken nor destroy them. The
comprehensiveness of this amendment, the natural and necessary breadth of the language, the history of some of the
clauses; their connection with discussions, contests, and domestic commotions that form landmarks in the annals of
constitational government; the circumstances under which
it became part of the Constitution, demonstrate that the
weighty import of what it ordains is not to be misunderstood.
From whatever cause originating, or with whatever special
and present or pressing purpose passed, the fourteenth
amendment is not confined to the population that had been
servile, or to that which had any of the disabilities or disqualifications arising from race or from contract. The vast
number of laborers in mines, manufactories, commerce, as
well as the laborers on the plantations, are defended against
the unequal legislation of the States. Nor is the amendment confined in its appliciation to laboring men. The
mandate is universal in its application to persons of every
class and every condition. There are forty millions of
population who may refer to it to determine their rank in
the United States, and in any particular State. There are
thirty-seven governments among the States to which it directs command, and the States that may be hereafter admitted, and the persons hereafter to be born or naturalized
will find here declarations of the same weighty import to
them all. To the State governments it says: "Let there be
no law made or enforced to- diminish one of the privileges
and immunities of the people of the United States;" nor
law to deprive them of their life, liberty, property, or protection without trial. To the people the declaration is:
"Take and hold this your certificate of status and of

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Argument against the monopoly.

capacity, the Magna Charta of your rights and liberties."
To the Congress it says: "Take care to'enforce this article
by suitable laws."
The only question then is this: " When a State passes a
law depriving a thousand people, who have acquired valuable property, and who, through its instrumentality, are engaged in an honest and necessary business, which they understand, of their right to use such their own property, and to
labor in such their honest and necessary business, and gives
a monopoly, embracing the whole subject, including the
right to labor in such business, to seventeen other personswhether the State has abridged any of the privileges or immunities of these thousand persons?"
Now, what are "privileges and immunities" in the sense
of the Constitution? They are undoubtedly the personal
and civil rights which usage, tradition, the habits of society,
written law, and the common sentiments of people have
recognized as forming the basis of the institutions of the
country. The first clause in the fourteenth amendment
does not deal with any interstate relations, nor relations
that depend in any manner upon State laws, nor is any
standard among the States referred to for the ascertainment
of these privileges and immunities. It assumes that there
were privileges and immunities that belong to an American
citizen, and the State is commanded neither to make nor to
enforce any law that will abridge them.
The case of Ward v. l17iaryland* bears upon the matter.
That case involved the validity of a statute of Maryland
which imposed a tax in the form of a license to sell the agricultural and manufactured articles of other States than Maryland by card, sample, or printed lists, or catalogue. The
purpose of the tax was to prohibit sales in that mode, and
to relieve the resident merchant from the competition of
these itinerant or transient dealers. This court decided
that the power to carry on commerce in this form was "a
pxivilege or immunity" of the sojourner.
* 12 Wallace, 419.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE CASES.

[Sup. ,Ot.

Argument against the monopoly.

2. The act in question is equally in the face of the fourteenth
amendment in that it denies to the plaintiffs the equal protection of
the laws. By an act of legislative partiality it enriches seventeen persons and deprives nearly a thousand others of the
same class, and as upright and competent as the seventeen,
of the means by which they earn their daily bread.
3. It is equally in violation of it, since it deprives them of their
properly without due process of low. The right to labor, the
right to one's self physically and intellectually, and to the
product of one's own faculties, is past doubt property, and
property of a sacred kind. Yet this property is destroyed
by the act; destroyed not by due process of law, but by
charter; a grant of privilege, of monopoly; which allows
such rights in this matter to no one but to a favored "seventeen."
It will of course be sought to justify the act as an exercise
of the police power; a matter confessedly, in its general
scope, within the jurisdiction of the States. Without doubt,
in that general scope, the subject of sanitary laws belong to
the exercise of the power set up; but it does not follow
there is no restraint on State power of legislation in police
matters. The police power was invoked in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden.* New York had granted to eminent citizens
a monopoly of steamboat navigation in her waters as coinlpensation for their enterprise and invention. They set up
that Gibbons should not have, keep, establish, or land with
a steamboat to carry passengers and freight on the navigable
waters of New York. Of course the State had a great jurisdiction over its waters for all purposes of police, but none
to control navigation and intercourse between the United
States and foreign nations, or among the States. Suppose
the grant to Fulton and Livingston had been that all persons
coming to the United States, or from the States around,
should, because of their services to the State, land on one
of their lots and pass through their gates. This would
abridge the rights secured in the fourteenth amendment.
* 9 Wbheaton, 203.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

The right to move with freedom, to choose his highway, and
to be exempt from impositions, belongs to the citizen. He
must have this power to move freely to perform his duties
as a citizen.
The Passenger Cases, in 7 Howard, are replete with discussions on the police powers of the States. The arguments
in that case appeal to the various titles in which the freedom
of State action has been supposed to be unlimited. Immigrants, it was said, would bring pauperism, crime, idleness,
increased expenditures, disorderly conduct. The acts, it was
said, were in the nature of health acts. But the court said
that the police power could not be invoked to justify even
the small tax there disputed.
Messrs. H. H. Carpenter and J. S. Black (a brief of Mr.
CharlesAllen being filed on the same side), and Mr. T. J. -Du.
rant, representing in addition the State of Louisiana, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER, now, April 14th, 1873, delivered
the opinion of the court.
These cases are brought here by writs of error to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana. They arise out of
the efforts of the butchers of New Orleans to resist the
Crescent City Live-Stock Landing and Slaughter-House
Company in the exercise of certain powers conferred by the
charter which created it, and which was granted by the
legislature of that State.
The cases named on a preceding page,* with others which
have been brought here and dismissed by agreement, were
all decided by the Supreme Court of Louisiana in favor of
the Slaughter-House Company, as we shall hereafter call it
for the sake of brevity, and these writs are brohght to reverse those decisions.
The records were filed in this court in 1870, and were
argued before it at length on a motion made by plaintiffs in
error for an order in the nature of an injunction or super* See supra, p. 86, sub Vifq.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sedeas, pending the action of the court on the merits. The
opinion on that motion is reported in 10 Wallace, 273.
On account of the importance of the questions involved
in these cases they were, by permission of the court, taken
up out of their order on the docket and argued in January,
1872. At that hearing one of the justices was absent, and
it was found, on consultation, that there was a diversity of
views among those who were present. Impressed with the
gravity of the questions raised in the argument, the court
under these circumstances ordered that the cases be placed
on the calendar and reargued before a full bench. This argument was had early in February last.
Preliminary to the consideration of those questions is a
motion by the defendant to dismiss the cases, on the ground
that the contest between the parties has been adjusted by
an agreement made since the records came into this court,
and that part of that agreement is that these writs should
be dismissed. This motion was heard with the argument
on the merits, and was much pressed by counsel. It is supported by affidavits and by copies of the written agreement
relied on. It is sufficient to say of these that we do not find
in them satisfactory evidence that the agreement is binding
upon all the parties to the record who are named as plaintiffs in the several writs of error, and that there are parties
now before the court, in each of the three cases, the names
of which appear on a preceding page,* who have not consented to their dismissal, and who are not bound by the
action of those who have so consented. They have a right
to be heard, and the motion to dismiss cannot prevail.
The records show that the plaintiffs in error relied upon,
and asserted throughout the entire course of the litigation
in the State courts, that the grant of privileges in the charter
of defendant, which they were contesting, was a violation
of the most important provisions of the thirteenth and fourteenth articles of amendment of the Constitution of the
United States. The jurisdiction and the duty of this court
* See subtitle, supra,p. 36.-REP.

Dec. 1872.']

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE CASES.
Opinion of the court.

to review the judgment of the State court on those questions
is clear and is imperative.
The statute thus assailed as unconstitutional was passed
March 8th, 1869, and is entitled "An act to protect the
health of the city of New Orleans, to locate the stock-landings and slaughter-houses, and to incorporate the Crescent
City Live-Stock Landing and Slaughter-House Company."
The first section forbids the landing or slaughtering of
animals whose flesh is intended for food, within the city of
New Orleans and other parishes and boundaries named and
defined, or the keeping or establishing any slaughter-houses
or abattoirs within those limits except by the corporation
thereby created, which is also limited to certain places afterwards mentioned. Suitable penalties are enacted for violations of this prohibition.
The second section designates the corporators, gives the
name to the corporation, and confers on it the usual corporate powers.
The third and fourth sections authorize the company to
establish and erect within certain territorial limits, therein
defined, one or more stock-yards, stock-landings, and slaughter-houses, and imposes upon it the duty of erecting, on or
before the first day of June, 1869, one grand slaughterhouse of sufficient capacity for slaughtering five hundred
animals per day.
It declares that the company, after it shall have prepared
all the necessary buildings, yards, and other conveniences
for that purpose, shall have the sole and exclusive privilege
of conducting and carrying on the live-stock landing and
slaughter-house business within the limits and privilege
granted by the act, and that all such animals shall be landed
at the stock-landings and slaughtered at the slaughterhouses of the company, and nowhere else. Penalties are
enacted for infractions of this provision, and prices fixed for
the maximum charges of the company for each steamboat
and for each animal landed.
Section five orders the closing up of all other stock-land.

SLAUGHTER-11OUbE CASES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

ings and slaughter-houses after the first day of June, in the
parishes of Orleans, Jefferson, and St. Bernard, and makes
it the duty of the company to permit any person to slaughter
animals in their slaughter-houses under a heavy penalty for
each refusal. Another section fixes a limit to the charges
to be made by the company for each animal so slaughtered
in their building, and another provides for an inspection of
all animals intended to be so slaughtered, by an officer appointed by the governor of the State for that purpose.
These are the principal features of the statute, and are
all that have any bearing upon the questions to be decided
by us.
This statute is denounced not only as creating a monopoly
and conferring odious and exclusive privileges upon a small
number of persons at the expense of the great body of the
community of New Orleans, but it is asserted that it deprives a large and meritorious class of citizens-the whole
of the butchers of the city-of the right to exercise their
trade, the business to which they have been trained and on
which they depend for the support of themselves and tbeir
families; and that the unrestricted exercise of the business
of butchering is necessary to the daily subsistence of the
population of the city.
But a critical examination of the act hardly justifies these
assertions.
It is true that it grants, for a period of twenty-five years,
exclusive privileges. And whether those privileges are at
the expense of the community in the sense of a curtailment
of any of their fundamental rights, or even in the sense of
doing them an injury, is a question open to considerations
to be hereafter stated. But it is not true that it deprives
the butchers of the right to exercise their trade, or imposes
upon them any restriction incompatible with its successful
pursuit, or furnishing the people of the city with the necessary daily supply of animal food.
The act divides itself into two main grants of privilege,_
the one in reference to stock-landings and stock-yards, and

Dee. 1872.1

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

the other to slaughter-houses. That the landing of livestock in large droves, from steamboats on the bank of the
river, and from railroad trains, should, for the safety and
comfort of the people and the care of the animals, be limited
to proper places, and those not numerous, it needs no argument to prove. Nor can it be injurious to the general community that while the duty of making ample preparation
for this is imposed upon a few men, or a corporation, they
should, to enable them to do it successfully, have the exclusive right of providing such-landing-places, and receiving a
fair compensation for the service.
It is, however, the slaughter-house privilege, which is
mainly relied on to justify the charges of gross injustice to
the public, and invasion of private right.
It is not, and cannot be successfully controverted, that it
is both the right and the dnty of the legislative body-the
supreme power of the State or municipality-to prescribe
and determine the localities where the business of slaughtering for a great city may be conducted. To do this effectively
it is indispensable that all persons who slaughter animals
for food shall do it in those places and nowhere else.
The statute under consideration defines these localities
and forbids slaughtering in any other. It does not, as has
been asserted, prevent the butcher from doing his own
slaughtering. On the contrary, the Slaughter-House Company is required, under a heavy penalty, to permit any person who wishes to do so, to slaughter in their houses; and
they are bound to make ample provision for the convenience
of all the slaughtering for the entire city. The butcher then
is still permitted to slaughter, to prepare, and to sell his own
meats; but he is required to slaughter at a specified place
and to pay a reasonable compensation for the use of the accommodations furnished him at that place.
The wisdom of the monopoly granted by the legislature
may be open to question, but it is difficult to see a justification for the assertion that the butchers are deprived of the
right to labor in their occupation, or the people of their
daily service in preparing food, or how this statute, with the

SLAUGHTER-HousE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

duties and guards imposed upon the company, can be said
to destroy the business of the butcher, or seriously interfere
with its pursuit.
The power here exercised by the legislature of Louisiana
is, in its essential nature, one which has been, up to the
present period in the constitutional history of this country,
always conceded to belong to the States, however it may
now be questioned in some of its details.
"Unwholesome trades, slaughter-houses, operations offbnsive to the senses, the deposit of powder, the application of
steam power to propel cars, the building with combustible
materials, and the burial of the dead, may all," says Chancellor Kent,* " be interdicted by law, in the midst of dense
masses of population, on the general and rational principle,
that every person ought so to use his property as not to injure his neighbors; and that private interests must be made
subservient to the general interests of the community."
This is called the police power; and it is declared by Chief
Justice Shawt that it is much easier to perceive and realize
the existence and sources of it than to mark its boundaries,
or prescribe limits to its exercise.
This power is, and must be from its very nature, incapable
of any very exact definition or limitation. Upon it depends
the security of social order, the life and health of the citizen,
the comfbrt of an existence in a thickly populated community, the enjoyment of private and social life, and the beneficial use of property. "It extends," says another eminent
judgeJ "to the protection of the lives, limbs, health, comfort, and quiet of all persons, and the protection of all property within the State; . . . and persons and property are
subjected to all kinds of restraints and burdens in order to
secure the general comfort, health, and prosperity of the
State. Of the perfect right of the legislature to do this no
question ever was, or, upon acknowledged general principles, ever can be made, so far as natural persons are concerned."
* 2 Commentaries, 340.

t Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cushing, 84
Z Thorpe v. Rutland and Burlington Railroad Co., 27 Vermont, 149.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

The regulation of the place and manner of conducting the
slaughtering of animals, and the business of butchering
within a city, and the inspection of the animals to be
killed for meat, and of the meat afterwards, are among the
most necessary and fiequent exercises of this power. It is
not, therefore, needed that we should seek for a comprehensive definition, but rather look for the proper source of its
exercise.
In Gibbons v. Ogden,* Chief Justice Marshall, speaking of
inspection laws passed by the States, says: "They form a
portion of that immense mass of legislation which controls
everytl~ing within the territory of a State not surrendered to
the General Government-all which can be most advantageously administered by the States themselves. Inspection
laws, quarantine laws, health laws of every description, as
well as laws for regulating the internal commerce of a State,
and those which respect turnpike roads, ferries, &c., are component parts. No direct general power over these objects is
granted to Congress; and consequently they remain subject
to State legislation."
The exclusive authority of State legislation over this subject is strikingly illustrated in the case of the City of New
York v. Miln.t In that case the defendant was prosecuted
for failing to comply with a statute of New York which required of every master of a vessel arriving from a foreign
port, in that of New York City, to report the names of all
his passengers, with certain particulars of their age, occupation, last place of settlement, and place of their birth. It
was argued that this act was an invasion of the exclusive
right of Congress to regulate commerce. And it cannot be
denied that such a 'statute operated at least indirectly upon
the commercial intercourse between the citizens of the
United States and of foreign countries. But notwithstanding this it was held to be an exercise of the police power
properly within the control of the State, and unaffected by
the clause of the Constitution which conferred on Congress
the right to regulate commerce.
*9

Wheaton, 203.

t- 11 Peters, 102.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

To the same purpose are the recent cases of the The Licease 7 ix,* and United States v. De Witt.t In the latter case
an act ot Congress which undertook as 0 part of the internal
revenue laws to make it a misdemeanor co mix for sale naphtha and illuminating oils, or to sell oil of petroleum inflammable at less than a prescribed temperature, was held to be
void, because as a police regulation the power to make such
a law belonged to the States, and did not belong to Congress.
It cannot be denied that the statute under consideration
is aptly framed to remove from the more densely populated
part or the city, the noxious slaughter-houses, and large and
offensive collections of animals necessarily incident to the
slaughtering business of a large city, and to locate them
where the convenience, health, and comfort of the people
require they shall be located. And it must be conceded
that the means adopted by the act for this purpose are appropriate, are stringent, and effectual. But it is said that in
creating a corporation for this purpose, and conferring upon
it exclusive privileges-privileges which it is said constitute
a monopoly-the legislature has exceeded its power. If this
statute had imposed on the city of New Orleans precisely
the same duties, accompanied by the same privileges, which
it has on the corporation which it created, it is believed that
no question would have been raised as to its constitutionality. In that case the effect on the butchers in pursuit of
their occupation and on the public would have been the
same as it is now. Why cannot the legislature confer the
same powers ol another corporation, created for a lawful
and useful public object, that it can on the municipal corporation already existing? That wherever a legislature has
the right to accomplish a certain result, and that result is
best attained by means of a corporation, it has the right to
create such a corporation, and to endow it with the powers
necessary to effect the desired and lawful purpose, seems
hardly to admit of debate. The proposition is ably discussed and affirmed in the case of Me Cudloeh v. The State of
Xaryland,. in relation to the power of Congress to organize
*5

Wallace, 471.

-t 9 Id. 41.

: 4 Wheaton, 316.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE OASES.
Opinion of the court.

the Bank of the United States to aid in the fiscal operations
of the government.
It can readily be seen that the interested vigilan-e of the
corporation created by the Louisiana legislature will be
more efficient in enforcing the limitation prescribed for the
stock-landing and slaughtering business for the good of the
city than the ordinary efforts of the officers of the law.
Unless, therefore, it can be maintained that the exclusive
privilege granted by this charter to the corporation, is beyond the power of the legislature of Louisiana, there can be
no just exception to the validity of the statute. And in this
respect we are not able to see that these privileges are espe
cially odious or objectionable. The duty imposed as a consideration for the privilege is well defined, and its enforce.
ment well guarded. The prices or charges to be made by
the company are limited by the statute, and we are not advised that they are on the whole exorbitant or unjust.
The proposition is, therefore, reduced to these terms: Can
any exclusive privileges be granted to any of its citizens, or
to a corporation, by the legislature of a State ?
The eminent and learned counsel who has twice argued
the negative of this question, has displayed a research into
the history of monopolies in England, and the European
continent, only equalled by the eloquence with which they
are denounced.
But it is to be observed, that all such references are to
monopolies established by the monarch'in derogation of the
rights of his subjects, or arise out of transactions in which
the people were unrepresented, and their interests uncared
for. The great Case of Monopolies, reported by Coke, and
so fully stated in the brief, was undoubtedly a contest of
the commons against the monarch. The decision is based
upon the ground that it was against common law, and the
argument was aimed at the unlawful assumption of power
by the crown; for whoever doubted the authority of Parliament to change or modify the common law? The discussion
in the House of Commons cited from Macaulay clearly
%
6
VOL. XVI.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

establishes that the contest was between the crown, and the
people represented in Parliament.
But we think it may be safely affirmed, that the Parliament of Great Britain, representing the people in their
legislative functions, and the legislative bodies of this country, have from time immemorial to the present day, continued to grant to persons and corporations exclusive privileges-privileges denied to other citizens-privileges which
come within any just definition of the word monopoly, as
much as those now under consideration; and that the power
to do this has never been questioned or denied. Nor can it
be truthfully denied, that some of the most useful and beneficial enterprises set on foot for the general good, have been
made successful by means of these exclusive rights, and
could only have been conducted to success in that way.
It may, therefore, be considered as established, that the
authority of the legislature of Louisiana to pass the present
statute is ample, unless some restraint in the exercise of
that power be found in the constitution of that State or in
the amendments to the Constitution of the United States,
adopted since the date of the decisions we have already
cited.
If any such restraint is supposed to exist in the constitution of the State, the Supreme Court of Louisiana having
necessarily passed on that question, it would not be open to
review in this court.
The plaintiffs in error accepting this issue, allege that the
statute is a violation of the Constitution of the United States
in these several particulars:
That it creates an involuntary servitude forbidden by the
thirteenth article of amendment;
That it abridges the privileges and immunities of citizens
of the United States;
That it denies to the plaintifl the equal protection of the
laws; and,
That it deprives them of their property without due pro.
cess of law; cottrary to the provisions of the first section of
the fourteenth article of amendment.

Dec. 1872 ]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

This court is thus called upon for the first time to give
construction to these articles.
We do not conceal from ourselves the great responsibility
which this duty devolves upon us. No questions so farreaching and pervading in their consequences, so profoundly
interesting to the people of this country, and so important
in their bearing upon the relations of the United States, and
of the several States to each other and to the citizens of the
States and of the United States, have been before this court
during the official life of any of its present members. We
have given every opportunity for a full hearing at the bar;

we have discussed it freely and compared views among ourselves; we have taken ample time for careful deliberation,
and we now propose to announce the judgments which we
have formed in the construction of those articles, so far as
we have found them necessary to the decision of the cases
before us, and beyond that we have neither the inclination
nor the right to go.
Twelve articles of amendment were added to the Federal
Constitution soon after the original organization of the government under it in 1789. Of these all but the last were
adopted so soon afterwards as to justify the statement that
they were practically contemporaneous with the adoption of
the original; and the twelfth, adopted in eighteen hundred
and three, was so nearly so as to have become, like all the
others, historical and of another age. But within the last
eight years three other articles of amendment of vast importance have been added by the voice of the people to that
now venerable instrument.
The most cursory glance at these articles discloses a unity
of purpose, when taken in connection with the history of
the times, which cannot fail to have an important bearing
on any question of doubt concerning their true meaning.
Nor can such doubts, when any reasonably exist, be safely
and rationally solved without a reference to that history; for
in it is found the occasion and the necessity for recurring
again to the great source of power in this country, the people
of the States, for additional guarantees of human rights;

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court..

additional powers to the Federal government; additional
restraints upon those of the States. Fortunately that history is fresh within the memory of us all, and its leading
features, as they bear upon the matter before us, free from
doubt.
The institution of African slavery, as it existed in about
half the States of the Union, and the contests pervading the
public mind for many years, between those who desired its
curtailment and ultimate extinction and those who desired
additional safeguards for its security and perpetuation, culminated in the eflbrt, on the part of most of the States in
which slavery existed, to separate from the Federal government, and to resist its authority. This constituted the war
of the rebellion, and whatever auxiliary causes may have
contributed to bring about this war, undoubtedly the overshadowing and efficient cause was African slavery.
In that struggle slavery, as a legalized social relation, perished. It perished as a necessity of the bitterness and force
of the conflict. When the armies of freedom found themselves upon the soil of slavery they could do nothing less
than free the poor victims whose enforced servitude was the
foundation of the quarrel. And when hard pressed in the
contest these men (for they proved themselves men in that
terrible crisis) offered their services and were accepted by
thousands to aid in suppressing the unlawful rebellion,
slavery was at an end wherever the Federal government
succeeded in that purpose. The proclamation of President
Lincoln expressed an accomplished fact as to a large portion
of the insurrectionary districts, when he declared slavery
abolished in them all. But the war being over, those who
had succeeded in re-establishing the authority of the Federal
government were not content to permit this great act of
emancipation to rest on the actual results of the contest or
the proclamation of the Executive, both of which might
have been questioned in after times, and they determined to
place this main and most valuable result in the Constitution
of the restored Union as one of its fundamental articles.
Hence the thirteenth article of amendment of that instru-

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOusE

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

ment. Its two short sections seem hardly to admit of construction, so vigorous is their expression and so appropriate
to the purpose we have indicated.
"1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a
punishment for crime, whereof the party shall have been
duly convicted, shall exist within the United States or any
place subject to their jurisdiction.
"2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by
appropriate legislation."
To withdraw the mind from the contemplation of this
grand yet simple declaration of the personal freedom of all
the human race within the jurisdiction of this governmenta declaration designed to establish the freedom of four millions of slaves-and with a microscopic search endeavor to
find in it a reference to servitudes, which may have been
attached to property in certain localities, requires an effort,
to say the least of it.
That a personal servitude was meant is proved by the use
of the word "involuntary," which can only apply to human
beings. The exception of servitude as a punishment for
-crime gives an idea of the class of servitude that is meant.
The word servitude is of larger meaning than slavery, as the
latter is popularly understood in this country) and the obvious purpose was to forbid all shades and conditions of
African slavery. It was very well understood that in the
fbrm of apprenticeship for long terms, as it had been prackiced in the West India Islands, on the abolition of slavery
by the English government, or by reducing the slaves to the
-ondition of serfs attached to the plantation, the purpose of
the article might have been evaded, if only the word slavery
had been used. The case of the apprentice slave, held under
a law of Maryland, liberated by Chief Justice Chase, on a
writ of habeas corpus under this article, illustrates this
course of observation.* And it is all that we deem necessary to say on the application of that article to the statute
of Louisiana, now under consideration.
* Matter of Turner, 1 Abbott United States leports, 84.

70

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The process of restoring to their proper relations with the
Federal government and with the other States those which
had sided with the rebellion, undertaken under the proclamation of President Johnson in 1865, and before the assembling of Congress, developed the fact that, notwithstanding
the formal recognition by those States of the abolition of
slavery, the condition of the slave race would, without further protection of the Federal government, be almost as bad
as it was before. Among the first acts of legislation adopted
by several of the States in the legislative bodies which
claimed to be in their normal relations with the Federal
government, were laws which imposed upon the colored
race onerous disabilities and burdens, and curtailed their
rights in the pursuit of life, liberty, and property to such an
extent that their freedom was of little value, while they had
lost the protection which they had received from their former
owners from motives both of interest and humanity.
They were in some States forbidden to appear in the
towns in any other character than menial servants. They
were required to reside on and cultivate the soil without the
right to purchase or own it. They were excluded from
many occupations of gain, and were not permitted to give
testimony in. the courts in any case where a white man was
a party. It was said that their lives were at the mercy of
bad men, either because the laws for their protection were
insufficient or were not enforced.
These circumstances, whatever of falsehood or misconception may have been mingled with their presentation, forced
upon the statesmen who had conducted the Federal government in safety through the crisis of the rebellion, and who
supposed that by the thirteenth article of amendment they
had secured the result of their labors, the conviction that
something more was necessary in the way of constitutional
rrotection to the unfortunate race who had suffered so much.
They accordingly passed through Congress the proposition
for the fourteenth amendment, and they declined to treat as
restored to their full participation in the government of the
Union the States which had been in insurrection, until they

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE CASES.
Opinion of the court.

ratified that article by a formal vote of their legislative

bodies.
Before we proceed to examine more critically the provisions of this amendment, on which the plaintiffs in error
rely, let us complete and dismiss the history of the recent
amendments, as that history relates to the general purpose
which pervades them all. A few years' experience satisfied
the thoughtful men who had been the authors of the other
two amendments that, notwithstanding the restraints of
those articles on the States, and the laws passed under the
additional powers granted to Congress, these were inadequate for the protection of life, liberty, and property, without which freedom to the slave was no boon. They were in
all those States denied the right of suffrage. The laws were
administered by the white man alone. It was urged that a
race of men distinctively marked as was the negro, living in
the midst of another and dominant race, could never be fully
secured in their person and their property without the right
of suffrage.
Hence the fifteenth amendment, which declares that "the
right of a citizen of the United States to vote shall not be
denied or abridged by any State on account of race, color,
or previous condition of servitude." The negro having, by
the fourteenth amendment, been declared to be a citizen of
the United States, is thus made a voter in every State of the
Union.
We repeat, then, in the light of this recapitulation of
events, almost too recent to be called history, but which
are familiar to us all; and on the most casual examination of the language of these amendments, no one can
fail to be impressed with the one pervading purpose found
in them all, lying at the foundation of each, and without
which none of them would have been even suggested; we
mean the freedom of the slave race, the security and firm
establishment of that freedom, and the protection of the
newly-made freeman and citizen from the oppressions of
those who had formerly exercised unlimited dominion over
him. It is true that only the fifteenth amendment, in terms,

SLAUGITER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

mentions the negro by speaking of his color and his slavery.
But it is just as true that each of the other articles was ad.dressed to the grievances of that race, and designed to remedy them as the fifteenth.
We do not say that no one else but the negro can share
in this protection. Both the language and spirit of these
articles are to have their fair and just weight in any question
of construction. Undoubtedly while negro slavery alone was
in the mind of the Congress which proposed the thirteenth
article, it forbids any other kind of slavery, now or hereafter.
If Mexican peonage or the Chinese coolie labor system shall
develop slavery of the Mexican or Chinese race within our
territory, this amendment may safely be trusted to make it
void. And so if other rights are assailed by the States which
properly and necessarily fall within the protection of these
articles, that protection will apply, though the party interested may not be of African descent. But what we do say,
and what we wish to be understood is, that in any fair and
just construction of any section or phrase of these amendments, it is necessary to look to the purpose which we have
said was the pervading spirit of them all, the evil which
they were designed to remedy, and the process of continued
addition to the Constitution, until that purpose was supposed
to be accomplished, as far as constitutional law can accom
plish it.
The first section of the fourteenth article, to which our
attention is more specially invited, opens with a definition
of citizenship-not only citizenship of the United States, but
citizenship of the States. No such definition was previously
found in the Constitution, nor had any attempt been made
to define it by act of Congress. It had been the occasion of
much discussion in the courts, by the executive departments,
and in the public journals. It had been said by eminent
judges that no man was a citizen of the United States, except as he was a citizen of one of the States composing the
Union. Those, therefore, who had been born and resided
always in the District of Columbia or in the Territories,
though within the United States, were not citizens. Whether

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-0USE CASES.
Opinion of the court.

this proposition was sound or not had never been judicially
decided. But it had been held by this court, in the celebrated Dred Scott case, only a few years before the outbreak
of the civil war, that a man of African descent, whether a
slave or not, was not and could not be a citizen of a State or
of the United States. This decision, while it met the condemnation of some of the ablest statesmen and constitutional
lawyers of the country, had never been overruled; and if it
was to be accepted as a constitutional limitation of the right
of citizenship, then all the negro race who had recently been
made freemen, were still, not only not citizens, but were incapable of becoming so by anything short of an amendment
to the Constitution.
To remove this difficulty primarily, and to establish a
clear and comprehensive definition of citizenship which
should declare what should constitute citizenship of the
United States, and also citizenship of a State, the first clause
of the first section was framed.
"All persons born or naturalized in the United States,
and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the
United States and of the State wherein they reside."
The first observation we have to make on this clause is,
that it puts at rest both the questions which we stated to
have been the subject of differences of opinion. It declares
that persons may be citizens of the United States without
regard to their citizenship of a particular State, and it overturns the Dred Scott decision by making all persons born
within the United States and subject to its jurisdiction citizens of the United States. That its main purpose was to
establish the citizenship of the negro can admit of no doubt.
The phrase, "subject to its jurisdiction" was intended to
exclude from its operation children of ministers, consuls,
and citizens or subjects of foreign States born within the
United States.
The next observation is more important in view of the
arguments of counsel in the present case. It is, that the
distinction between citizenship of the United States and
citizenship of a State is clearly recognized and established,

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

OASES.

[Sup. CtL

Opinion of the court.

Not only may a man be a citizen of the United States without being a citizen of a State, but an important element is
necessary to convert the former into the latter. He must
reside within the State to make him a citizen of it, but it is
only necessary that he should be born or naturalized in the
United States to be a citizen of the Union.
It is quite clear, then, that there is a citizenship of the
United States, and a citizenship of a State, which are distinct from each other, and which depend upon different
characteristics or circumstances in the individual.
We think this distinction and its explicit recognition in
this amendment of great weight in this argument, because
the next paragraph of this same section, which is the one
mainly relied on by the plaintiffs in error, speaks only of
privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States,
and does not speak of those of citizens of the several States.
The argument, however, in favor of the plaintiffs rests
wholly on the assumption that the citizenship is the same,
and the privileges and immunities guaranteed by the clause
are the same.
The language is, "No State shall make or enforce any law
which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens
of the United States." It is a little remarkable, if this clause
was intended as a protection to the citizen of a State against
the legislative power of his own State, that the word citizen
of the State should be left out when it is so carefully used,
and used in contradistinction to citizens of the United States,
in the very sentence which precedes it. It is too clear for
argument that the change in phraseology was adopted understandingly and with a purpose.
Of the privileges and immunities of the citizen of the
United States, and of the privileges and immunities of the
citizen of the State, and what they respectively are, we will
presently consider; but we wish to state here that it is only
the former which are placed by this clause under the protection of the Federal Constitution, and that the latter, whatever they may be, are not intended to have any additional
protection by this paragraph of the amendment.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-oUSE

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

If, then, there is a difference between the privileges and
immunities belonging to a citizen of 'the United States as.
such, and those belonging to the citizen of the State as such.
the latter must rest for their security and protection where
they have heretofore rested; for they are not embraced by
this paragraph of the amendment.
The first occurrence of the words "privileges and immunities" in our constitutional history, is to be found in the
fourth of the articles of the old Confederation.
It declares "that the better to secure and perpetuate
mutual friendship and intercourse among the people of the
different States in this Union, the free inhabitants of each
of these States, paupers, vagabonds, and fugitives from justice excepted, shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of free citizens in the several States; and the people
of each State shall have free ingress and regress to and from
any other State, and shall enjoy therein all the privileges of
trade and commerce, subject to the same duties, impositions,
and restrictions as the inhabitants thereof respectively."
In the Constitution of the United States, which superseded the Articles of Confederation, the corresponding provision is found in section two of the fourth article, in the
following words: "The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens of the
several States."
There can be but little question that the purpose of both
these provisions is the same, and that the privileges and immunities intended are the same in each. In the article of the
Confederation we have some of these specifically mentioned,
and enough perhaps to give some general idea of the class,
of civil rights meant by the phrase.
Fortunately we are not without judicial construction of
this clause of the Constitution. The first and the leading
case on the subject is that of Corfield v. Coryell, decided by
Mr. Justice Washington in the Circuit Court for the District
of Pennsylvania in 1823.*
* 4 Washington's Circuit Court, 371.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

OASES.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

"The inquiry," he says, "1is, what are the privileges and
immunities of citizens of the several States? We feel no
hesitation in confining these expressions to those privileges
and immunities which are fundamental; which belong of
right to the citizens of all free governments, and which have
at all times been enjoyed by citizens of the several States
which compose this Union, from the time of their becoming
free, independent, and sovereign. What these fundamental
principles are, it would be more tedious than difficult to
enumerate. They may all, however, be comprehended
under the following general heads: protection by the government, with the right to acquire and possess property of
every kind, and to pursue and obtain happiness and safety,
subject, nevertheless, to such restraints as the government
may prescribe for the general good of the whole."
This definition of the privileges and immunities of citizens of the States is adopted in the main by this court in
the recent case of Ward v. The State of Maryland,* while it
declines to undertake an authoritative definition beyond
what was necessary to that decision. The description, when
taken to include others not named, but which are of the
same general character, embraces nearly every civil right
for the establishment and protection of which organized
government is instituted. They are, in the language of
Judge Washington, those rights which are fundamental.
Throughout his opinion, they are spoken of as rights belonging to the individual as a citizen of a State. They are
so spoken of in the constitutional provision which he was
construing. And they have always been held to be the class
of rights which the State governments were created to establish and secure.
In the case of Paul v. Virginia,t the court, in expounding
this clause of the Constitution, says that "the privileges and
immunities secured to citizens of each State in the several
States, by the provision in question, are those privileges and
immunities which are common to the citizens in the latter
*12

Wallace, 430.

t" 8 Id. 180.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE OASES.
Opinion of the court.

States under their constitution and laws by virtue of their
being citizens."
The constitutional provision there alluded to did not create
those rights, which it called privileges and immunities of
citizens of the States. It threw around them in that clause
no security for the citizen of the State in which they were
claimed or exercised. Nor did it profess to control the power
of the State governments over the rights of its own citizens.
Its sole purpose was to declare to the several States, that
whatever those rights, as you grant or establish them to your
own citizens, or as -you limit or qualify, or impose restrictions on their exercise, the same, neither more nor less,
shall be the measure of the rights of citizens of other States
within your jurisdiction.
It would be the vainest show of learning to attempt to
prove by citations of authority, that up to the adoption of
the recent amendments, no claim or pretence was set up
that those rights depended on the Federal government for
their existence or protection, beyond the very few express
limitations which the Federal Constitution imposed upon
the States-such, for instance, as the prohibition against ex
post facto laws, bills of attainder, and laws impairing the
obligation of contracts. But with the exception of these
and a few other restrictions, the entire domain of the privileges and immunities of citizens of the States, as above defined, lay within the constitutional and legislative power of
the States, and without that of the Federal government.
Was it the purpose of the fourteenth amendment, by the
simple declaration that no State should make or enforce any
law which shall abridge the privileges and immunities of
citizens of the United States, to transfer the security and protection of all the civil rights which we have mentioned,
from the States to the Federal government? And where it
is declared that Congress shall have the power to enforce
that article, was it intended to bring within the power of
Congress the entire domain of civil rights heretofore belonging exclusively to the States?
All this and more must follow, if the proposition of the

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

plaintiffs in error be sound. For not only are these rights
subject to the control of Congress whenever in its discretion
any of them are supposed to be abridged by State legislation,
but that body may also pass laws in advance, limiting and
restricting the exercise of legislative power by the States, in

their most ordinary and usual functions, as in its judgment
it may think proper on all such subjects. And still further,
such a construction followed by the reversal of the judg-

ments of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in these cases,
would constitute this court a perpetual censor upon all legislation of the States, on the civil rights of their own citizens,
with authority to nullify such as it did not approve as con-

sistent with those rights, as they existed at the time of the
adoption of this amendment.

The argument we admit is

not always the most conclusive which is drawn from the
consequences urged against the adoption of a particular
construction of an instrument.

But when, as in the case

before us, these consequences are so serious, so far-reaching
and pervading, so great a departure from the structure and

spirit of our institutions; when the effect is to fetter and
degrade the State governments by subjecting them to the
control of Congress, in the exercise of powers heretofore
universally conceded to them of the most ordinary and fundamental character; when in fact it radically changes the
whole theory of the relations of the State and Federal governments to each other and of both these governments to the
people; the argument has a force that is irresistible, in the
absence of language which expresses such a purpose too
clearly to admit of doubt.
We are convinced that no such results were intended by
the Congress which proposed these amendments, nor by the
legislatures of the States which ratified them.
Having shown that the privileges and immunities relied
on in the argument are those which belong to citizens of
the States as such, and that they are left to the State governments for security and protection, and not by this article
placed under the special care of the Federal government,
we may hold ourselves excused from defining the privileges

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

and immunities of citizens of the United States which no
State can abridge, until some case involving those privileges
may make it necessary to do so.
But lest it should be said that no such privileges and immunities are to be found if those we have been considering
are excluded, we venture to suggest some which owe their
existence to the Federal government, its National character,
its Constitution, or its laws.
One of these is well described in the case of Crandallv.
Nevada.* It is said to be the right of the citizen of this
great country, protected by implied guarantees of its Constitution, "to come to the seat of government to assert any
claim he may have upon that government, to transact any
business he may have with it, to seek its protection, to share
its offices, to engage in administering its functions. He has
the right of free access to its seaports, through which all
operations of foreign commerce are conducted, to the subtreasuries, land offices, and courts of justice in the several
States." And quoting from the language of Chief Justice
Taney in another case, it is said "that for all the great purposes for which the -Federal government was established, we
are one people, with one common country, we are all citizens
of the United States;" and it is, as such citizens, that their
rights are supported in this court in Crandallv., Nevada.
Another privilege of a citizen of the United States is to
demand the care and protection of the Federal government
over his life, liberty, and property when on the high seas or
within the jurisdiction of a foreign government. Of this
there can be no doubt, nor that the right depends upon his
character as a citizen of the United States. The right to
peaceably assemble and petition for redress of grievances,
the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus, are rights of the
citizen guaranteed by the Federal Constitution. The right
to use the navigable waters of the United States, however
they may penetrate the territory of the several States, all
rights secured to our citizens by treaties with foreign nations,
* 6 Waace, 36.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

are dependent upon citizenship of the United States, and not
citizenship of a State. One of these privileges is conferred
by the very article under consideration. It is that a citizen
of the United States can, of his own volition, become a citizen of any State of the Union by a bona fide residence
therein, with the same rights as other citizens of that State.
To these may be added the rights secured by the thirteenth
and fifteenth articles of amendment, and by the other clause
of the fourteenth, next to be considered.
But it is useless to pursue this branch of the inquiry, since
we are of opinion that the rights claimed by these plaintiffs
in error, if they have any existence, are not privileges and
immunities of citizens of the United States within the meaning of the clause of the fourteenth amendment under consideration.
"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United
States and of the State wherein they reside. No State shall
make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges
or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall
any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property
without due process of law, nor deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of its laws."
The argument has not been much pressed in these cases
that the defendant's charter deprives the plaintiffs of their
property without due process of law, or that it denies to
them the equal protection of the law. The first of these
paragraphs has been in the Constitution since the adoption
of the fifth amendment, as a restraint upon the Federal
power. It is also to be found in some form of expression
in the constitutions of nearly all the States, as a restraint
upon the power of the States. This law: then, has practically been the same as it now is during the existence of the
government, except so far as the present amendment may
place the restraining power over the States in this matter in
the hands of the Federal government.
We are not without judicial interpretation, therefore, both
State and National, of the meaning of this clause. And it

:Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-110USE

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

is sufficient to say that under no construction of that provision that we have ever seen, or any that we deem admissible, can the restraint imposed by the State of Louisiana
upon the exercise of their trade by the butchers of New
Orleans be held to be a deprivation of property within the
meaning of that provision.
"Nor shall any State deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
In the light of the history of .these amendments, and the
pervading purpose of them, which we have already dis
cussed, it is not difficult to give a meaning to this clause.
The existence of laws in the States where the newly emar..
cipated negroes resided, which discriminated with gross irjustice and hardship against theni as a class, was the evil to
be remedied by this clause, and by it such laws are forbidden.
If, however, the States did not conform their laws to its
requirements, then by the fifth section of the article of
amendment Congress was authorized to enforce it by suitable legislation. We doubt very much whether any action
of a State not directed by way of discrimination against the
negroes as a class, or on account of their race, will ever be
held to come within the purview of this provision. It is
so clearly a provision for that race and that emergency, that
a strong case would be necessary for its application to any
other. But as it is a State that is to be dealt with, and not
alone the validity of its laws, we may safely leave that matter
until Congress shall have exercised its power, or some case
of State oppression, by denial of equal justice in its courts,
shall have claimed a decision at our hands. We find no
such case in the one before us, and do not deem it necessary
to go over the argument again, as it may have relation to
this particular clause of the amendment.
In the early history of the organization of the government, its statesmen seem to have divided on the line which
should separate the powers of the National government from
those of the State governments, and though this line has
VOL. X=.

6

SLAUGHTER-oOusE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

never been very well defined in public opinion, such a division has continued from that day to this.
The adoption of the first eleven amendments to the Constitution so soon after the original instrument was accepted,
shows a prevailing sense of danger at that time from the
Federal power. And it cannot be denied that such a jealousy continued to exist with many patriotic men until the
breaking out of the late civil war. It was then discovered
that the true danger to the perpetuity of the Union was in
the capacity of the State organizations to combine and concentrate all the powers of the State, and of contiguous
States, for a determined resistance to the General Governanent.
Unquestionably this has given great force to the argu.
ment, and added largely to the number of those who believe
in the necessity of a strong National government.
But, however pervading this sentiment, and however it
may have contributed to the adoption of the amendments
we have been considering, we do not see in those amend:ments any purpose to destroy the main features of the general system. Unde the pressure of all the excited feeling
growing out of the war, our statesmen have still believed
that the existence of the States with powers for domestic
and local government, including the regulation of civil
rights-the rights of person and of property-was essential
to the perfect working of our complex form of government,
though they have thought proper to impose additional limitations on the States, and to confer additional power on that
of the Nation.
But whatever fluctuations may be seen in the history of
-public opinion on this subject during the period of our national existence, we think it will be found that this court, so
far as its functions required, has always held with a steady
and an even hand the balance between State and Federal
,power, and we trust that such may continue to be the history of its relation to that subject so long as it shall have
,duties to perform which demand of it a construction of the
Constitution, or of any of its parts.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE OASES.

Dec. 1872.]

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

The judgments of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in
these cases a-e
AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting:
I am unable to agree with the majority of the court in
these cases, and will proceed to state the reasons of my dissent from their judgment.
The cases grow out of the act of the legislature of the
State of Louisiana, entitled "An act to protect the health
of the city of New Orleans, to locate the stock-landings and
slaughter-houses, and to incorporate 'The Crescent City
Live-Stock Landing and Slaughter-House Company,'
which was approved on the eighth of March, 1869, and
went into operation on, the fir'st of June following. The
act creates the corporation mentioned in its title, which is
composed of seventeen persois designated by name, and
invests them and their successors with the powers usfially
conferred upon corporations in addition to their special and
exclusive privileges. It first declares that it shall not be
lawful, after the first day of June, 1869, to "land, keep, or
slaughter any cattle, beeves, calves, sheep, swine, or other
animals, or to have, keep, or establish any stock-landing,
yards, slaughter-houses, or abattoirs within the city of New
Orleans or the parishes of Orleans, Jefferson, and St. Bernard," except as provided in the act; and imposes a penalty
of two hundred and fifty dollars for each violation of its provisions. It then authorizes the corporation mentioned to
establish and erect within the parish of St, Bernard and the
corporate limits of New Orleans, below the United States
barracks, on the east side of the Mississippi, or at any point
below a designated railroad depot on the west side of the
river, "wharves, stables, sheds, yards, and buildings, necessary to land, stable, shelter, protect, and preserve all kinds
of horses, mulks, cattle, and other animals," and provides
that cattle and other animals, destined for sale or slaughter
in the city of New Orleans or its environs, shall be landed
at-the landings and yards of the - company, and be there

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

yarded, sheltered, and protected, if necessary; and that the
company shall be entitled to certain prescribed fees for the
use of its wharves, and for each animal landed, and be authorized to detain the animals until the fees are paid, and if
not paid within fifteen days to take proceedings for their
sale. Every person violating any of these provisions, or
landing, yarding, or keeping animals elsewhere, is subjected
to a fine of two hundred and fifty dollars.
The act then requires the corporation to erect a grand
slaughter-house of sufficient dimensions to accommodate all
butchers, and in which five hundred animals may be slaughtered a day, with a sufficient number of sheds and stables
for the stock received at the port of New Orleans, at the
same time authorizing the company to erect other landingplaces and other slaughter-houses at any points consistent
with the provisions of the act.
The act then provides that when the slaughter-houses and
accessory buildings have been completed and thrown open
for use, public notice thereof shall be given for thirty days,
and within that time "all other stock-landings and slaughter-houses within the parishes of Orleans, Jefferson, and St.
Bernard shall be closed, and it shall no longer be lawful to
slaughter cattle, hogs, calves, sheep, or goats, the meat of
which is determined [destined] for sale within the parishes
aforesaid, under a penalty of one hundred dollars for each
and every offence."
The act then provides that the company shall receive for
every animal slaughtered in its buildings certain prescribed
fees, besides the head, feet, gore, and entrails of all animals
except of swine.
Other provisions of the act require the inspection of the
animals before they are slaughtered, and allow the construction of railways to facilitate communication with the buildings of the company and the city of New Orleans.
But it is only the special and exclusive privileges conferred by the act that this court has to consider in the cases
before it. These privileges are granted for the period of
twenty-five years. Their exclusive character not only fol-

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

85

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

lows from the provisions I have cited, but it is declared in
express terms in the act. In the third section the language
is that the corporation "shall have the sole and exclusive rivilege of conducting and carrying on the live-stock, landing,
and slaughter-house business within the limits and privileges
granted by the provisions of the act." And in the fourth
section the language is, that after the first of June, 1869,
the company shall have "the exclusive privilege of having
landed at their landing-places all animals intended for sale
or slaughter in the parishes of Orleans and Jeffirson," and
"the exclusive privilege of having slaughtered" in its
slaughter-hbuses all animals, the meat of which is intended
for sale in these parishes.
In order to understand the real character of these special
privileges, it is necessary to know the extent of country and
of population which they affect. The parish of Orleans contains an area of country of 150 square miles; the parish of
Jefferson, 884 square miles; and the parish of St. Bernard,
620 square miles. The three parishes together contain an
area of 1154 square miles, and they have a population -of
between two and three hundred thousand people.
The plaintiffs in error deny the validity of the act in quesflon, so far as it confers the special and exclusive privileges
mentioned. The first case before us was brought by an
-Jssociation of butchers in the three parishes against the corporation, to prevent the assertion and enforcement of these
privileges. The second case was instituted by the attorneygeneral of the State, in the name of the State, to protect the
corporation in the enjoyment of these privileges, and to prevent an association of stock-dealers and butchers from acquiring a tract of land in the same district with the corporation, upon which to erect suitable buildings for receiving,
keeping, and slaughtering cattle, and preparing animal food
for market. The third case was commenced by the corporation itself, to restrain the defendants from carrying on a
business similar to its own, in violation of its alleged exclusive privileges.
The substance of the averments of the plaintiffs in error

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

is this: That prior to the passage of the act in question they
were engaged in the lawful and necessary business of procuring and bringing to the parishes of Orleans, Jefferson,
and St. Bernard, animals suitable for human food, and in
preparing such food for market; that in the prosecution of
this business they had provided in these parishes suitable
establishments for landing, sheltering, keeping, and slaughtering cattle and the sale of meat; that with their association about four hundred persons were connected, and that
in the parishes named about a thousand persons were thus
engaged in procuring, preparing, and selling animal food.
And they complain that the business of landing, yarding,
and keeping, within the parishes named, cattle intended for
sale or slaughter, which was lawful for them to pursue before
the first day of June, 1869, is made by that act unlawful for
any one except the corporation named; and that the business
of slaughtering cattle and preparing animal food for market,
which it was lawful for them to pursue in these parishes before that day, is made by that act unlawful for them to pursue afterwards, except in the buildings of the company, and
upon payment of certain prescribed fees, and a surrender of'
a valuable portion of each animal slaughtered. And they
contend that the lawful business of landing, yarding, sheltering, and keeping cattle intended for sale or slaughter,
which they in common with every individual in the community of the three parishes had a right to follow, cannot
be thus taken from them and given over for a period of
twenty-five years to the sole and exclusive enjoyment of a
corporation of seventeen persons or of anybody else. And
they also contend that the lawful and necessary business of
slaughtering cattle and preparing animal food for market,
which they and all other individuals had a right to follow,
cannot be thus restricted within this territory of 1154 square
miles to the buildings of this corporation, or be subjected to
tribute for the emolument of that body.
No one will deny the abstract justice which lies in the
position of the plaintiffs in error; and I shall endeavor to

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

show that the position has some support in the fundamental
law of the country.
It is contended in justification for the act in question that
it was adopted in the interest of the city, to promote its
cleanliness and protect its health, and was the legitimate
exercise of what is termed the police power of the State.
That power undoubtedly extends to all regulations affecting
the health, good order, morals, peace, and safety of society,
and is exercised on a great variety of subjects, and in almost
numberless ways. All sorts of restrictions and burdens are
imposed under it, and when these are not in conflict with
any constitutional prohibitions, or' fundamental principles,
they cannot be successfully assailed in a judicial tribunal.
With this power of the State and its legitimate exercise I
shall not differ from the majority of the court. But under
the pretence of prescribing a police regulation the State
cannot be permitted to encroach upon any of the just rights
of the citizen, which the Constitution intended to secura
against abridgment.
In the law in question there are only two provisions whichr
can properly be called police regulations-the one which
requires the landing and slaughtering of animals below the
city of New Orleans, and the other which requires the in,
spection of the animals before they are slaughtered. When
these requirements are complied with, the sanitary purposes
of the act are accomplished. In all other particulars the act
is a mere grant to a corporation created by it of special and
exclusive privileges by which the health of the city is in no
way promoted. It is plain that if the corporation can, without endangering the health of the public, carry on the business of landing, keeping, and slaughtering cattle within a
district below the city embracing an area of over a thousand
square miles, it would not endanger the public health if
other persons were alko permitted to carry on the same
business within the same district under similar conditions
as to the inspection of the animals. The health of the city
might require the removal from its limits and suburbs of alt
buildings for keeping and slaughtering cattle, but no such

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

object could possibly justify legislation removing such buildings from a large part of the State fbr the benefit of a single
corporation. The pretence of sanitary regulations for the
grant of the exclusive privileges is a shallow one, which
merits only this passing notice.
It is also sought to justify the act in question on the same
principle that exclusive grants for ferries, bridges, and turnpikes are sanctioned. But it can find no support there.
Those grants are of franchises of a public character appertaining to the government. Their use usually requires the
exercise of the sovereign right of eminent domain. It is for
the government to determine when one of them shall be
granted, and the conditions upon which it shall be enjoyed.
It is the duty of the government to provide suitable roads,
bridges, and ferries for the convenience of the public, and
if it chooses to devolve this duty to any extent, or in any
locality, hpon particular individuals or corporations, it may
of course stipulate for such exclusive privileges connected
with the franchise as it may deem proper, without encroaching upon the freedom or the just rights of others. The
grant, with exclusive privileges, of a right thus appertaining
to the government, is a very different thing from a grant,
with exclusive privileges, of a right to pursue one of the
ordinary trades or callings of life, which is a right appertaining solely to the individual.
Nor is there any analogy between this act of Louisiana
and the legislation which confers upon the inventor of a new
and useful improvement an exclusive right to make and sell
to others his invention. The government in this way only
secures to the inventor the temporary enjoyment of that
which, without him, would not have existed. It thus only
recognizes in the inventor a temporary property in the product of his own brain.
The act of Louisiana presents the naked case, unaccompanied by any public considerations, where a right to pursue
a lawful and necessary calling, previously enjoyed by every
citizen, and in connection with which a thousand persons
were daily employed, is taken away and vested exclusively

Dec. 1872.]

SLAi GIFIR-HOUSE CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

for twenty-five years, for an extensive district and a large
population, in a single corporation, or its exercise is for that
period restricted to the establishments of the corporation,
and there allowed only upon onerous conditions.
If exclusive privileges of this character can be granted to
a corporation of seventeen persons, they may, in the discretion of the legislature, be equally granted to a single individual. If they may be granted for twenty-five years they
may be equally granted for a century, and in perpetuity.
If they may be granted for the landing and keeping of animals intended for sale or slaughter they may be equally
granted for the landing and storing of grain and other products of the earth, or for any article of commerce. If they
may be granted for structures in which animal food is prepared for market they may be equally granted for structures
in which farinaceous or vegetable food is prepared. They
may be granted for any of the pursuits of human industry,
even in its most simple and common forms. Indeed, upon
the theory on which the exclusive privileges granted by the
act in question are sustained, there is no monopoly, in the
most odious form, which may not be upheld.
The question presented is, therefore, one of the gravest
importance, not merely to the parties here, but to the whole
country. It is nothing less than the question whether the
recent amendments to the Federal Constitution protect the
citizens of the United States against the deprivation of their
common rights by State legislation. In my judgment the
fourteenth amendment does afford such protection, and was
so intended by the Congress which framed and the States
which adopted it.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error have contended,
with great force, that the act in question is also inhibited by
the thirteenth amendment.
That amendment prohibits slavery and involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime, but I have not supposed it was susceptible of a construction which would cover
the enactment in question. I have been so accustomed to
regard it as intended to meet that form of slavery which had

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

previously prevailed in this country, and to which the recent
civil war owed its existence, that I was not prepared, nor
am I yet, to give to it the extent and force ascribed by
counsel. Still it is evident that the language of the amendment is not used in a restrictive sense.

It is not confined

to African slavery alone. It is general and universal in its
application. Slavery of white men as well as of black men
is prohibited, and not merely slavery in the strict sense of
the term, but involuntary servitude in every form.
The words "involuntary servitude" have not been the
subject of any judicial or legislative exposition, that I am
aware of, in this country, except that which is found in the
Civil Rights Act, which will be hereafter noticed. It is,
however, clear that they include something more than
slavery in the strict sense of the term; they include also
serfage, vassalage, villenage, peonage, and all other forms
of compulsory service for the mere benefit or pleasure of
others. Nor is this the full import of the terms. The abolition of slavery and involuntary servitude was intended to
make every one born in this country a freeman, and as such
to give to him the right to pursue the ordinary avocations
of life without other restraint than such as affects all others,
and to enjoy equally with them the fruits of his labor. A
prohibition to him to pursue certain callings, open to others
of the same age, condition, and sex, or to reside in places
where others are permitted to live, would so far deprive
him of the rights of a freeman, and would place him, as
respects others, in a condition of servitude. A person
allowed to pursue only one trade or calling, and only in one
locality of the country, would not be, in the strict sense of
the term, in a condition of slavery, but probably none would
deny that he would be in a condition of servitude. He certainly would not possess the liberties nor enjoy the privileges
of a freeman. The compulsion which would force him to
labor even for his own benefit only in one direction, or in
one place, would be almost as oppressive and nearly as great
an invasion of his liberty as the compulsion which would
force him to labor for the benefit or pleasure of another,

Dec. 187'2.]

SLAUGHTER-oEOUSE

CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

and would equally constitute an element of servitude. The
counsel of the plaintiffs in error therefore contend that
"wherever a law of a State, or a law of the United States,
makes a discrimination between classes of persons, which
deprives the one class of their freedom or their property, or
which makes a caste of them to subserve the power, pride,
avarice, vanity, or vengeance of others," there involuntary
servitude exists within the meaning of the thirteenth amendment.
It is not necessary, in my judgment, for the disposition of
the present case in favor of the plaintiffs in error, to accept
as entirely correct this conclusion of counsel. It, however,.
finds support in the act of Congress known as the Civil Rights
Act, which was framed and adopted upon a construction of
the thirteenth amendment, giving to its language a similar
breadth. That amendment was ratified on the eighteenth
of December, 1865,* and in April of the following year the
Civil Rights Act was passed.t Its first section declares that
all persons born in the United States, and not subject to
any foreign power, excluding Indians not taxed, are "citizens of the United States," and that "such citizens, of every
race and color, without regard to any previous condition of
slavery, or involuntary servitude, except as a punishment
for crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted,
shall have the same right in every State and Territory in the
United States, to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties, and give evidence, to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold,
and convey real and personal property, and to full and equal
benefit of all laws and proceedings for the security of persop
and property, as enjoyed by white citizens."
This legislation was supported upon the theory that citizens of the United States as such were entitled to the rights
and privileges enumerated, and that to deny to any such
citizen equality in these rights and privileges with others,
was, to the extent of the denial, subjecting him to an invol* The prolamaticu of iti ratification was made on that day (13 Stat. at

Large, 774).
t 14 Id. 27.

SLAUGHTER-oUSE

CASES.

[Sup

Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

untary servitude. Senator Trumbull, who drew the act and
who was its earnest advocate in the Senate. stated, on opening the discussion upon it in that body, that the measure
was intended to give effect to the declaration of the amendment, and to secure to all persons in the United States practical freedom. After referring to several statutes passed in
some of the Southern States, discriminating between the
freedmen and white citizens, and after citing the definition
of civil liberty given by Blackstone, the Senator said: "I
take it that any statute which is not equal to all, and which
deprives any citizen of civil rights, which are secured to
other citizens, is an unjust encroachment upon his liberty;
and it is in fact a badge of servitude which by the Constitution is prohibited."*
By the act of Louisiana, within the three parishes named,
a territory exceeding one thousand one hundred square
miles, and embracing over two hundred thousand people,
every man who pursues the business of preparing animal
food for market must take his animals to the buildings of
the favored company, and must perform his work in them,
and for the use of the buildings must pay a prescribed
tribute to the company, and leave with it a valuable portion
of each animal slaughtered. Every man in these parishes
who has a horse or other animal for sale, must carry him to
the yards and stables of this company, and for their use pay
a like tribute. He is not allowed to do his work in his own
buildings, or to take his animals to his own stables or keep
them in his own yards, even though they should be erected
in the same district as the buildings, stables, and yards of
the company, and that district embraces over eleven hundred square miles. The prohibitions imposed by this act
upon butchers and dealers in cattle in these parishes, and
the special privileges conferred upon the favored corporation, are similar in principle and as odious in character as
the restrictions imposed in the last century upon the peasantry in some parts of France, where, as says a French
* Congressional Globe, 1st Session, 39th Congress, part 1, page 474

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGBTER-oOUSE

OASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

writer, the peasant was prohibted "to hunt on his own lands,
to fish in his own waters, to grind at his own mill, to cook
at his own oven, to dry his clothes on his own machines,
to whet his instruments at his own grindstone, to make
his own wine, his oil, and his cider at his own press, . . . or
to sell his commodities at the public market." The exclusive right to all these privileges was vested in the lords of
the vicinage. "The history of the most execrable tyranny
of ancient times," says the same writer, " offers nothing
like this. This category of oppressions cannot be applied
to a free man, or to the peasant, except in violation of his
rights."
But if the exclusive privileges conferred upon the Louisiana corporation can be sustained, it is not perceived why
exclusive privileges for the construction and keeping of
ovens, machines, grindstones, wine-presses, and for all the
numerous trades and pursuits for the prosecution of which
buildings are required, may not be equally bestowed upon
other corporations or private individuals, and for periods of
indefinite duration.
It is not necessary, however, as I have said, to rest my
objections to the act in question upon the terms and meaning of the thirteenth amendment. The provisions of the
fourteenth amendment, which is properly a supplement to
the thirteenth, cover, in my judgment, the case before us,
and inhibit any legislation which confers special and exclusive privileges like these under consideration. The amendment was adopted to obviate objections which had been
raised and pressed with great force to the validity of the Civil
Rights Act, and to place the common rights of American
citizens under the protection of the National government.
It first declares that "all persons born or naturalized in the
United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are
citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they
reside." It then declares that "no State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, nor shall any. State
deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

process of law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of the laws."
The first clause of this amendment determines who are
citizens of the United States, and how their citizenship is
created. Before its enactment there was much diversity of
opinion among jurists and statesmen whether there was any
such citizenship independent of that of the State, and, if
any existed, as to the manner in which it originated. With
a great number the opinion prevailed that there was no
such citizenship independent of the citizenship of the State.
Such was the opinion of Mr. Calhoun and the class represented by him. In his celebrated speech in the Senate upon
the Force Bill, in 1833, referring to the reliance expressed
by a senator upon the fact that we are citizens of the United
States, he said: "If by citizen of the United States he means
a citizen at large, one whose citizenship extends to the entire
geographical limits of the country without having a local
citizenship in some State or Territory, a sort of citizen of
the world, all I have to say is that such a citizen would be a
perfect nondescript; that not a single individual of this description can be found in the entire mass of our population.
Notwithstanding all the pomp and display of eloquence on
the occasion, every citizen is a citizen of some State or Territory, and as such, under an express provision of the Constitution, is entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States; and it is in this and no other
sense that we are citizens of the United States."*
In the Dred Scott case this subject of citizenship of the
United States was fully and elaborately discussed. The exposition in the opinion of Mr. Justice Curtis has been generally accepted by the profession of the country as the one
containing the soundest views of constitutional law. And
he held that, under the Constitution, citizenship of the United
States in reference to natives was dependent upon citizenship in the several States, under their constitutions and
laws.
* Calhoun's Works, vol. 2, p. 242.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTERt-HOUSE

CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion cf Field, J.

The Chief Justice, in that case, and a majority of the court
with him, held that the words "people of the United States"
and "citizens" were synonymous terms; that the people of
the respective States were the parties to the Constitution;
that tbese people consisted of the free inhabitants of those
States; that they had provided in their Constitution for the
adoption of a uniform rule of naturalization; that they and
their descendants and persons naturalized were the only
persons who cofld be citizens of the United States, and that
it was not in the power of any State to invest any other
person with citizenship so that he could enjoy the privileges
of a citizen under the Constitution, and that therefore the
descendants of persons brought to this country and sold as
slaves were not, and could not be citizens within the meaning of the Constitution.
The first clause of the fourteenth amendment changes
this whole subject, and removes it from the region of discussion and doubt. It recognizes in express terms, if it
does not create, citizens of the United States, and it makes
their citizenship dependent upon the place of their birth, or
the fact of their adoption, and not upon the constitution or
laws of any State or the condition of their ancestry. A
citizen of a State is now only a citizen of the United States
residing in that State. The fundamental rights, privileges,
and immunities which belong to him as a free man and a
free citizen, now belong to him as a citizen of the United
States, and are not dependent upon his citizenship of any
State. The exercise of these rights and privileges, and the
degree of enjoyment received from such exercise, are always
Imore or less affected by the condition and the 'local institutions of the State, or city, or town where he resides. They
are thus affected in a State by the wisdom of its laws, the
'ability of its officers, the efficiency of its magistrates, the
education and morals of its people, and by many other considerations. This is a result which follows from the constitution of society, and can never be avoided, but in no other
way can they be affected by the action of the State, or by
the residence of the citizen therein. -They do not derive

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field: J.

their existence from its legislation, and cannot be destroyed
by its power.
The amendment does not attempt to confer any new
privileges or immunities upon citizens, or to enumerate or
define those already existing. It assumes that there are
such privileges and immunities which belong of right to
citizens as such, and ordains that they shall not be abridged
by State legislation. If this inhibition has no reference to
privileges and imniunities of this character, but only refers,
as held by the majority of the court in their opinion, to such
privileges and immunities as were before its adoption spe-

cially designated in the Constitution or necessarily implied
as belonging to citizens of the United States, it was a vain
and idle enactment, which accomplished nothing, and most
unnecessarily excited Congress and the people on its passage. With privileges and immunities thus designated or
implied no State could ever have interfered by its law,,
and no new constitutional provision was required to inhibit
such interference. The supremacy of the Constitution and
the laws of the United States always controlled any State
legislation of that character. But if the amendment refers
to the natural and inalienable rights which belong to all
citizens, the inhibition has a profound significance and consequence.
What, then, are the privileges and immunities which are
secured against abridgment by State legislation ?
In the first section of the Civil Rights Act Congress has
given its interpretation to these terms, or at least has stated
some of the rights which, in its judgment, these terms include; it has there declared that they include the right "1to
make and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties and give evidence, to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold, and convey real
and personal property, and to full and equal benefit of all
laws and proceedings for the security of person and property." That act, it is true, was passed before the fourteenth
amendment, but the amendment was adopted, as I have
already said, to obviate objections to the act, or, speaking
more accurately, I should say, to obviate objections to legis-

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTERoIIOUSE CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

lation of a similar character, extending the protection of
the National government over the common rights of all citizens of the United States. Accordingly, after its ratification, Congress re-enacted the act under the belief that whatever doubts may have previously existed of its validity, they
were removed by the amendment.*
The terms, privileges and immunities, are not new int
the amendment; they were in the Constitution before theamendment was adopted. They are found in the seconw'
section of the fourth article, which declares that "the citi
zeus of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and
immunities of citizens in the several States," and they have
been the subject of frequent consideration in judicial dwe
cisions. In Corfield v. Coryellt Mr. Justice Washington said.
he had "no hesitation in confining these expressions to those
privileges and immunities which were, in their nature, fundamental; which belong of right to citizens of all free governments, and which have at all times been enjoyed by the
citizens of the several States which compose the Union,
from the time of their becoming free, independent, and
sovereign;" and, in considering what those fundamental
privileges were, he said that perhaps it would be moretedious than difficult to enumerate them, but that they might
be "all comprehended under the following general heads:
protection by the government; the enjoyment of life andliberty, with the right to acquire and possess property of
every kind, and to pursue and obtain happiness and safety,
subject, nevertheless, to such restraints as the government
may justly prescribe for the general good of the whole."'
This appears to me to be a sound construction of the clause
in question. The privileges and immunities designated arethose which of right belong to the citizens of all free governmentsClearly among these must be placed the right to pursue a
lawful employment in a lawful manner, without other restraint than such as equally affects all persons. In the discus* May 31st, 1870; 16 Stat. at Large, 144.
t 4 Washington's Circuit Court, 380.
VoL. XVI.

7

SLAUGHTER-HousE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

sions in Congress upon the passage of the Civil Rights Act
repeated reference was made to this language of Mr. Justice
Washington. It was cited by Senator Trumbull with the
observation that it enumerated the very rights belonging to
a citizen of the United States set forth in the first section
of the act, and with the statement that all persons born in
the United States, being declared by the act citizens of the
United States, would thenceforth be entitled to the rights
of citizens, and that these were the great fundamental rights
set forth in the act; and that they were set forth "as appertaining to every freeman."
The privileges and immunities designated in the second
section of the fourth article of the Constitution are, then,
according to the decision cited, those which of right belong
to the citizens of all free governments, and they can be enjoyed under that clause by the citizens of each State in the
several States upon the same terms and conditions as they
are enjoyed by the citizens of the latter States. No dis.
crimination can be made by one State against the citizens
-of other States in their enjoyment, nor can any greater imposition be levied than such as is laid upon its own citizens.
It is a clause which insures equality in the enjoyment of these
rights between citizens of the several States whilst in the
same State.
Nor is there anything in the opinion in the case of Paul
v. Virginia,* which at all militates against these views, as is
supposed by the majority of the court. The act of Virginia,
of 1866, which was under consideration in that case, provided that no insurance company, not incorporated under
the laws of the State, should carry on its business within
the State without previously obtaining a license for that
purpose; and that it should not receive such license until it
had deposited with the treasurer of the State bonds of a
specified character, to an amount varying from thirty to fifty
thousand dollars. No such deposit was required of insurance companies incorporated by the State, for carrying on
*

8 Wallace. 168.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HlOUSE

OASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

their business within the State; and in the case cited the
validity of the discriminating provisions of the statute of
Virginia between her own corporations and the corporations
of other States, was assailed. It was contended that the
statute in this particular was in conflict with that clause of
the Constitution which declares that "the citizens of each
State sh.ll be entitled to all privileges and immunities of
citizens in the several States." But the court answered,
that corporations were not citizens within the meaning of
this clause; that the term citizens as there used applied only
to natural persons, members of the body politic owing allegiance to the State, not to artificial persons created by the
legislature and possessing only the attributes which the
legislature had prescribed; that though it had been held
that where contracts or rights of property were to be enforced by or against a corporation, the courts of the United
States would, for the purpose of maintaining jurisdiction,
consider the corporation as representing citizens of the
State, under the laws of which it was created, and to this
extent would treat a corporation as a citizen within the provision, of the Constitution extending the judicial power of the
United States to controversies between citizens of different
States, it had never been held in any case which had come
under its observation, either in the State or Federal courts,
that a corporation was a citizen within the meaning of the
clause in question, entitling the citizens of each State to the
privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.
And the court observed, that the privileges and immunities
secured by that provision were those privileges and immunities which were common to the citizens in the latter States,
under their constitution and laws, by virtue of their being
citizens; that special privileges enjoyed by citizens in their
own States were not secured in other States by the provision;
that it was not intended by it to give to the laws of one State
any operation in other States; that they could have no such
operation except by the permission, expressed or implied, of
those States; and that the special privileges which they conferred must, therefore, be enjoyed at home unless the assent

SLAUGIITER-HOUSE OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

of other States to their enjoyment therein were given. And
so the court held, that a corporation, being a grant of special privileges to the corporators, had no legal existence beyond the limits of the sovereignty where created, and that
the recognition of its existence by other States, and the enforcement of its contracts made therein, depended purely
upon the assent of those States, which could be granted
upon such terms and conditions as those States might think
proper to impose.
The whole purport of the decision was, that citizens of
one State do not carry with them into other States any
special privileges or immunities, conferred by the laws of
their own States, of a corporate or other character. That
decision has no pertinency to the questions involved in this
case. The common privileges and immunities which of
right belong.to all citizens, stand on a very different footing.
These the citizens of each State do carry with them into
other States and are secured by the clause in question, in
their enjoyment upon terms of equality with citizens of the
latter States. This equality in one particular was enforced
by this court in the recent case of Ward v. The State of Maryland, reported in the 12th of Wallace. A statute of that State
required the payment of a larger sum from a non-resident
trader for a license to enable him to sell his merchandise in
the State, than it did of a resident trader, and the court
held, that the statute in thus discriminating against the nonresident trader contravened the clause securing to the citizens of each State the privileges and immunities of citizens
of the several States. The privilege of disposing of his
property, which was an essential incident to his ownership,
possessed by the non-resident, was subjected by the statute
of Maryland to a greater burden than was imposed upon a
like privilege of her own citizens. The privileges of the
non-resident were in this particular abridged by that legislation.
What the clause in question did for the protection of the
citizens of one State against hostile and discriminating legislation of other States, the fourteenth amendment does for

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

OASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

the protection of every citizen of the United States against
hostile and discriminating legislation against him in favor
of others, whether they reside in the same or in different
States. If under the fourth article of the Constitution
equality of privileges and immunities is secured between
citizens of different States, under the fourteenth amendment
the same equality is secured between citizens of the United
States.
It will not be pretended that under the fourth article of
the Constitution any State could create a monopoly in any
known trade or manufacture in favor of her own citizens,
or any portion of them, which would exclude an equal participation in the trade or manufacture monopolized by citizens of other States. She could not confer, for example,
upon any of her citizens the sole right to manufacture shoes,
or boots, or silk, or the sole right to sell those articles in the
State so as to exclude non-resident citizens from engaging
in a similar manufacture or sale. The non-resident citizens
could claim equality of privilege under the provisions of the
fourth article with the citizens of the State exercising the
monopoly as well as with others, and thus, as respects them,
the monopoly would cease. If this were not so it would be
in the power of the State to exclude at any time the citizens
fif other States from participation in particular branches of
i.ommerce or trade, and extend the exclusion from time to
'!me so as effectually to prevent any traffic with them.
Now, what the clause in question does for the protection
of citizens of one State against the creation of monopolies
in favor of citizens of other States, the fourteenth amendment does for the protection of every citizen of the United
States against the creation of any monopoly whatever. The
privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States,
of every one of them, is secured against abridgment in any
form by any State. The fourteenth amendment places them
under the guardianship of the National authority. All monopolies in any known trade or manufacture are an invasion
of these privileges, for they encroach upon the liberty of
citizens to acquire property and pursue happiness, and were

SLAUGHTER-HoUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

held void at common law in the great Case of Monopolies,
decided during the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
A monopoly is defined "to be an institution or allowance
from the sovereign power of the State by grant, coinmission, or otherwise, to any person or corporation, for the sole
buying, selling, making, working, or using of anything,
whereby any person or persons, bodies politic or corporate,
are sought to be restrained of any freedom or liberty they
had before, or hindered in their lawful trade." All such
grants relating to any known trade or manufacture have
been held by all the judges of England, whenever they have
come up for consideration, to be void at common law as destroying the freedom of trade, discouraging labor and industry, restraining persons from getting an honest livelihood,
and. putting it into the power of the grantees to enhance the
price of commodities. The definition embraces, it will be
observed, not merely the sole privilege of buying and selling particular articles, or of engaging in their manufacture,
but also the sole privilege of using anything by which others
may be restrained of the freedom or liberty they previously
had in any lawful trade, or hindered in such trade. It thus
covers in every particular the possession and use of suitable
yards, stables, and buildings for keeping and protecting
cattle and other animals, and for their slaughter. Such establishments are essential to the free and successful prosecution by any butcher of the lawful trade of preparing animal
food for market. The exclusive privilege of supplying such
yards, buildings, and other conveniences for the prosecution
of this business in a large district of country, granted by
the act of Louisiana to seventeen persons, is as much a monopoly as though the act had granted to the company the
exclusive privilege of buying and selling the animals themselves. It equally restrains the butchers in the freedom and
liberty they previously bad, and hinders them in their lawful
trade.
The reasons given for the judgment in the Case of Monopo.
lies apply with equal force to the case at bar. In that case a
patent had been granted to the plaintiff giving him the solo

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

right to import playing-cards, and the entire traffic in them,
and the sole right to make such cards within the realm.
The defendant, in disregard of this patent, made and sold
some gross of such cards and imported others, and was accordingly sued for infringing upon the exclusive privileges
of the plaintiff. As to a portion of the cards made and sold
within-the realm, he pleaded that he was a haberdasher in
London and a free citizen of that city, and as such had a
right to make and sell them. The court held the plea good
and the grant void, as against the common law and divers
acts of Parliament. "All trades," said the court, "as well
mechanical as others, which prevent idleness (the bane of
the commonwealth) and exercise men and youth in labor
for the maintenance of themselves and their families, and
for the increase of their substance, to serve the queen when
occasion shall require, are profitable for the commonwealth,
and therefore the grant to the plaintiff to have the sole
making of them is against the common law and the benefit and
liberty of the subject."* The case of Davenant and Hurdis
was cited in support of this position. In that case a company of merchant tailors in London, having power by charter to make ordinances for the better rule and government
of the company, so that they were consonant to law and
reason, made an ordinance that any brother of the society
who should have any cloth dressed by a cloth-worker, not
being a brother of the society, should put one-half of his
cloth to some brother of the same society who exercised the
art of a cloth-worker, upon pain of forfeiting ten shillings,
"and it was adjudged that the ordinance, although it had
the countenance of a charter, was against the common law,
because it was against the liberty of the subject; for every subject,
by the law, has freedom and liberty to put his cloth to be dressed
by what cloth-worker he pleases, and cannot be restrainedto certain
persons,for that in effect would be a monopoly, and, therefore,
such ordinance, by color of a charter or any grant by charter
to such effect, would be void."
* Coke's Reports, part 11, page 86.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

Although the court, in its opinion, refers to the increase
in prices and deterioration in quality of commodities which
necessarily result from the grant of monopolies, the main
ground of the decision was their interference with the lib,erty of the subject to pursue for his maintenance and that
,ofhis family any lawful trade or employment. This liberty
is assumed to be the natural right of every Englishman.
The struggle of the English people against monopolies
forms one of the most interesting and .instructive chapters
in their history. It finally ended in the passage of the
statute of 21st James I, by which it was declared "that all
monopolies and all commissions, grants, licenses, charters,
and letters-patent, to any person or persons, bodies politic
or corporate, whatsoever, of or for the sole buying, selling,
making, working, or using of anything" within the realm
or the dominion of Wales were altogether contrary to the
laws of the realm and utterly void, with the exception of
patents for new inventions for a limited period, and for
printing, then supposed to belong to the prerogative of the
king, and for the preparation and manufacture of certain
articles and ordnance intended for the prosecution of war.
The common law of England, as is thus seen, condemned
all monopolies in any known trade or manufacture, and declared void all grants of special privileges whereby others
could be deprived of any liberty which they previously had,
or be hindered in their lawful trade. The statute of James I,
to which I have referred, only embodied the law as it had
been previously declared by the courts of England, although
frequently disregarded by the sovereigns of that country.
The common law of England is the basis of the jurisprudence of the United States. It was brought to this country
by the colonists, together with the English statutes, and was
established here so far as it was applicable to their condition.
That law and the benefit of such of the English statutes as
existed at the time of their colonization, and which they
had by experience found to be applicable to their circumstances, were claimed by the Congress of the United Colonies in 1774 as a part of theii "indubitable rights and liber-

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

ties."* Of the statutes, the benefits of which was thus
claimed, the statute of James I against monopolies was one
of the most important. And when the Colonies separated
from the mother country no privilege was more fully recognized or more completely incorporated into the fundamental
law of the country than that every free subject in the British
empire was entitled to pursue his happiness by following
any of the known established trades and occupations of the
country, subject only to such restraints as equally affected
all others. The immortal document which proclaimed the
independence of the country declared as self-evident truths
that the Creator had endowed all men "with certain inalienable rights, and that among these are life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness; and that to secure these rights governments are instituted among men."

If it be said that the civil law and not the common law is
the basis of the jurisprudence of Louisiana, I answer that
the decree of Louis XVI, in 1776, abolished all monopolies
of trades and all special privileges of corporations, guilds,
and trading companies, and authorized every person to exercise, without restraint, his art, trade, or profession, and
such has been the law of France and of her colonies ever
since, and that law prevailed in Louisiana at the time of her
cession to the United States. Since then, notwithstanding
the existence in that State of the civil law as the basis of her
jurisprudence, freedom of pursuit has been always recognized as the common right of her citizens. But were this
otherwise, the fourteenth amendment secures the like protection to all citizens in that State against any abridgment
of their common rights, as in other States. That amendment was intended to give practical effect.to the declaration
of 1776 of inalienable rights, rights which are the gift of the
Creator, which the law does not confer, but only recognizes.
If the trader in London could plead that he was a free
citizen of that city against the enforcement to his injury of
monopolies, surely under the fourteenth amendment every
* Journals of Congress, vol. i, pp. 28-30.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ot.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

citizen of tie United States should be able to plead his citizenship of the republic as a protection against any similar
invasion of his privileges and immunities.
So fundamental has this privilege of every citizen to be
free from disparaging and unequal enactments, in the pursuit of the ordinary avocations of life, been regarded, that
few instances have arisen where the principle has been s(>
far violated as to call for the interposition of the courts.
But whenever this has occurred, with the exception of the
present cases from Louisiana, which are the most barefaced
and flagrant of all, the enactment interfering with the privilege of the citizen has been pronounced illegal and void.
When a case under the same law, under which the present
ca-ses have arisen, came before the Circuit Court of the
United States in the District of Louisiana, there was no
hesitation on the part of the court in declaring the law, in
its exclusive features, to be an invasion of one of the fundamental privileges of the citizen.* The presiding justice, in
delivering the opinion of the court, observed that it might
be difficult to enumerate or define what were the essential
privileges of a citizen of the United States, which a State
could not by its laws invade, but that so far as the question
under consideration was concerned, it might be safely said
that "it is one of the privileges of every American citizen
to adopt and follow such lawful industrial pursuit, not injurious to the community, as he may see fit, without unreasonable regulation or molestation, and without being restricted by any of those unjust, oppressive, and odious
monopolies or exclusive privileges which have been condemned by all free governments." And again: " There is
no more sacred right of citizenship than the right to pursue
unmolested a lawful employment in a lawful manner. It is
nothing more nor less than the sacred right of labor."
In the City of Chicago v.Rumpft which was before the
Supreme Court of Illinois, we have a case similar in all its
* Live-Stock, &c., Association v. The Crescent City, &c , Company (I
Abbott's United States Reports, 398).
-f4.5Illinois, 90.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

OASES.

107

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

features to the one at bar. That city being authorized by
its charter to regulate and license the slaughtering of animals within its corporate limits, the common council passed
what was termed an ordinance in reference thereto, whereby
a particular building was designated for the slaughtering of
all animals intended for sale or consumption in the city, the
owners of which were granted the exclusive right for a
specified period to"have all such animals slaughtered at their
establishment, they to be paid a specific sum for the privilege of slaughtering there by all persons exercising it. The
validity of this action of the corporate authorities was assailed on the ground of the grant of exclusive privileges,
and the court said: "The charter authorizes the city authorities to license or regulate such establishments. Where
that body has made the necessary regulations, required for
the health or comfort of the inhabitants, all persons inclined
to pursue such an occupation should have an opportunity
of conforming to such regulations, otherwise the ordinance
would be unreasonable and tend to oppression. Or, if they
should regard it for the interest of the city that such establishments should be licensed, the ordinance should be so
framed that all persons desiring it might obtain licenses by
conforming to the prescribed terms and regulations for the
government of such business. We regard it neither as a
regulation nor a license of the business to confine it to one
building or to give it to one individual. Such an action is
oppressive, and creates a monopoly that never could have
been contemplated by the General Assembly. It impairs
the rights of all other persons, and cuts them off from a
share in not only a legal, but a necessary business. Whether
we consider this as an ordinance or a contract, it is equally
unauthorized, as being opposed to the rules governing the
adoption of municipal by-laws. The principle of equality
of rights to the corporators is violated by this contract. If
the common council may require all of the animals for the
consumption of the city to be slaughtered in a single building, or on a particular lot, and the owner be paid a specific
sum for the privilege, what would prevent the making a

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

similar contract with some other person that all of the vegetables, or fruits, the flour, the groceries, the dry goods, or
other commodities should be sold on his lot and he receive
a compensation for the privilege? We can see no difference
in principle."
It is true that the court in this opinion was speaking of a
municipal ordinance and not of an act of the legislature of a
State. But, as it is justly observed by counsel, a legislative
body is no more entitled to destroy the equality of rights of
citizens, nor to fetter the industry of a city, than a municipal
government. These rights are protected from invasion by
the fundamental law.
In the case of the Norwich Gaslight Company v. The Norwich City Gas Company,* which was before the Supreme
Court of Connecticut, it appeared that the common council
of the city of Norwich had passed a resolution purporting to
grant to one Treadway, his heirs and assigns, for the period
of fifteen years, the right to lay gas-pipes in the streets of
that city, declaring that no other person or corporation
should, by the consent of the common council, lay gas-pipes
in the streets during that time. The plaintiffs having purchased of Treadway, undertook to assert an exclusive right
to use the streets for their purposes, as against another company which was using the streets for the same purposes.
And the court said: "As, then, no consideration whatever,
either of a public or private character, was reserved for the
grant; and as the business of manufacturing and selling gas
is an ordinary business, like the manufacture of leather, or
any other article of trade in respect to which the government
has no exclusive prerogative, we think that so far as the restriction of other persons than the plaintiffs from using the
streets for the purpose of distributing gas by means of pipes,
can fairly be viewed as intended to operate as a restriction
upon its free manufacture and sale, it comes directly within
the definition and description of a monopoly; and although
we have no direct constitutional provision against a monop* 25 Connecticut, 19.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

OASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, 3.

oly, yet the whole theory of a free government is opposed
to such grants, and it does not require even the aid which
may be derived from the Bill of Rights, the first section of
which declares ' that no man or set of men are entitled to
exclusive public emoluments or privileges from the community,' to render them void."
In the Mayor of the City of Hudson v. Thorne,* an application was made to the chancellor of New York to dissolve
an injunction restraining the defendants from erecting a
building in the city of Hudson upon a vacant lot owned by
them, intended to be used as a hay-press. The common
council of the city had passed an ordinance directing that no
person should erect, or construct, or cause to be erected or
constructed, any wooden or frame barn, stable, or hay-press
of certain dimensions, within certain specified limits in the
city, without its permission. It appeared, however, that
there were such buildings already in existence, not only in
compact parts of the city, but also within the prohibited
limits, the occupation of which for the storing and pressing
of hay the common council did not intend to restrain. And
the chancellor said: "If the manufacture of pressed hay
within the compact parts of the city is dangerous in causing
or promoting fires, the common council have the power expressly given by their charter to prevent the carrying on of
such manufacture; but as all by-laws must be reasonable,
the common council cannot make a by-law which shall permit one person to carry on the dangerous business and prohibit another who has an equal right from pursuing the
same business."
In all these cases there is a recognition of the equality of
right among citizens in the pursuit of the ordinary avocations of life, and a declaration that all grants of exclusive
privileges, in contravention of this equality, are against common right, and void.
This equality of right, with exemption from all disparaging and partial enactments, in the lawful pursuits of life,
* 7 Paige, 261.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Field, J.

throughout the whole country, is the distinguishing privilege of citizens of the United States. To them, everywhere,
all pursuits, all professions, all avocations are open without
other restrictions than such as are imposed equally upon all
others of the same age, sex, and condition. The State may
prescribe such regulations for every pursuit and calling of
life as will promote the public health, secure the good order
and advance the general prosperity of society, but when
once prescribed, the pursuit or calling must be free to be
followed by every citizen who is within the conditions designated, and will conform to the regulations. This is the fundamental idea upon which our institutions rest, and unless
adhered to in the legislation of the country our government
will be a republic only in name. The fourteenth amendment, in my judgment, makes it essential to the validity of
the legislation of every State that this equality of right should
be respected. How widely this equality has been departed
from, how entirely rejected and trampled upon by the act
of Louisiana, I have already shown. And it is to me a
matter of profound regret that its validity is recognized by
a majority of this court, for by it the right of free labor, one
of the most sacred and imprescriptible rights of man, is violated.* As stated by the Supreme Court of Connecticut, in
* "The property which every man has in his own labor,'

says Adam

Smith, "1as It is the original foundation of all other property, so it is the
most sacred and inviolable. The patrimony of the poor man lies in the
strength and dexterity of his own hands; and to hinder him from employing this strength and dexterity in what manner he thinks proper, without
injury to his neighbor, is a plain violation of this most sacred property. It
is a manifest encroachment upon the just liberty both of the workman and
of those who might be disposed to employ him. As it hinders the one from
working at what he thinks proper, so it hinders the others from employing
whom they think proper." (Smith's Wealth of Nations, b. 1, ch. 10, part 2.)
In the edict of Louis XVI, in 1776, giving freedom to trades and professions, prepared by his minister, Turgot, he recites the contributions that
had been made by the guilds and trade companies, and says: "1It was the
allurement of these fiscal advantages undoubtedly that prolonged the illusion
and concealed the immenbe injury they did to industry and their infraction
of natural right. This illusion had extended so far that some persons asserted that the right to work was a royal privilege which the king might

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE CASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Bradley, J.

the case cited, grants of exclusive privileges, such as is made
by the act in question, are opposed to the whole theory of
free government, and it requires no aid from any bill of
rights to render them void. That only is a free government, in the American sense of the term, under which the
inalienable right of every citizen to pursue his happiness is
unrestrained, except by just, equal, and impartial laws.*
I am authorized by the CHIEF JUSTICE, Mr. Justice
SWAYNE, and Mr. Justice BRADLEY, to state that they
concur with me in this dissenting opinion.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, also dissenting:
I concur in the opinion which has just been read by Mr.
Justice Field; but desire to add a few observations for the
purpose of more fully illustrating my views on the important question decided in these cases, and the special grounds
on which they rest.
The fourteenth amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, section 1, declares that no State shall make
or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges and
immunities of citizens of the United States.
The legislature of Louisiana, under pretence of making a
police regulation for the promotion of the public health,
passed an act conferring upon a corporation, created by the
act, the exclusive right,.for twenty-five years, to have and
maintain slaughter-houses, landings for cattle, and yards for
sell, and that his subjects were bound to purchase from him. We hasten to
correct this error and to repel the conclusion. God in giving to man wants
and desires rendering labor necessary for their satisfaction, conferred the
right to labor upon all men, and this property is the first, most sacred, and
imprescriptible of all." . . . He,therefore, regards it "as the first duty of
his justice, and the worthiest act of benevolence, to free his subjects from
any restriction upon thlis inalienable right of humanity."
* "Civil liberty, the great end of all human society and government, is
that state in which each individual has the power to pursue his own happiness according to his own views of his interest, and the dictates of his conscience, unrestrained, except by equal, just. and impartial laws." (I SharsWood's Blackstone, 127, note 8.)

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Bradley, J.

confining cattle intended for slaughter, within the parishes
of Orleans, Jefferson, and St. Bernard, a territory containing nearly twelve hundred square miles, including the city
of New Orleans; and prohibiting all other persons from
building, keeping, or having slaughter-houses, landings for
cattle, and yards for confining cattle intended for slaughter
within the said limits; and requiring that all cattle and
other animals to be slaughtered for food in that district should
be brought to the slaughter-houses and works of the favored
company to be slaughtered, and a payment of a fee to the
company for such act.
It is contended that this prohibition abridges the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, especially of the plaintiffs in error, who were particularly affected
thereby; and whether it does so or not is the simple question in this case. And the solution of this question depends
upon the solution of two other questions, to wit:
First. Is it one of the rights and privileges of a citizen of
the United States to pursue such civil employment as he
may choose to adopt, subject to such reasonable regulations
as may be prescribed by law?
Secondly. Is a monopoly, or exclusive right, given to one
person to the exclusion of all others, to keep slaughterhouses, in a district of nearly twelve hundred square miles,
for the supply of meat for a large city, a reasonable regulation of that employment which the legislature has a right to
impose?
The first of these questions is one of vast importance, and
lies at the very foundations of our government. The question is now settled by the fourteenth amendment itself, that
citizenship of the United States is the primary citizenship
in this country; and that State citizenship is secondary and
derivative, depending upon citizenship of the United States
and the citizen's place of residence. The States have not
now, if they ever had, any power to restrict their citizenship to any classes or persons. A citizen of the United
States has a perfect constitutional right to go to and reside
in any State he chooses, and to claim citizenship therein,

:Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

OASES.

Dissenting opinions.-OpinioD of Bradley, J.

and an equality of rights with every other citizen; and the
whole power of the nation is pledged to sustain him in that
right. He is not bound to cringe to any superior, or to pray
for any act of grace, as a means of enjoying all the rights
and privileges enjoyed by other citizens. And when the
*spirit of lawlessness, mob violence, and sectional hate can be
so completely repressed as to give full practical effect to this
right, we shall be a happier nation, and a more prosperous
one than we now are. Citizenship of the United States
ought to be, and, according to the Constitution, is, a sur
and undoubted title to equal rights in any and every Statft
in this Union, subject to such regulations as the legislaturm
may rightfully prescribe. If a man be denied full equality
before the law, be is denied one of the essential rights or
citizenship as a citizen of the United States.
Every citizen, then, being primarily a citizen of the United
States, and, secondarily, a citizen of the State where he resides, what, in general, are the privileges and immunites of
a citizen of the United States? Is the right, liberty, or
privilege of choosing any lawful employment one of them?
If a State legislature should pass a law prohibiting the
inhabitants of a particular township, county, or city, from
tanning leather or making shoes, would such a law violate
any privileges or immunities of those inhabitants as citizens
of the United States, or only their privileges and immunities as citizens of that particular State ? Or if a State legislature should pass a law of caste, making all trades and
professions, or certain enumerated trades and professions,
hereditary, so that no one could follow any such trades or
professions except that which was pursued by his father,
would such a law violate the privileges and immunities of
the people of that State as citizens of the United States, or
only as citizens of the State? Would they have no redress
but to appeal to the courts of that particular State?
This seems to me to be the essential question before us
for consideration. And, in my judgment, the right of any
citizen to follow whatever lawful employment he chooses to
adopt (submitting himself to all lawful regulations) is one of
VOL. XVI.

8

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct,

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Bradley, J.

his most valuable rights, and one which the legislature of a
State cannot invade, whether restrained by its own constitution or not.
The right of a State to regulate the conduct of its citizens
is undoubtedly a very broad and extensive one, and not to
be lightly restricted. But there are certain fundamental
rights which this right of regulation cannot infringe. It
may prescribe the manner of their exercise, but it cannot
subvert the rights themselves. I speak now of the rights of
citizens of any free government. Granting for the present
that the citizens of one government cannot claim the privileges of citizens in another government; that prior to the
union of our North American States the citizens of one
State could not claim the privileges of citizens in another
State; or, that after the union was formed the citizens of
the United States, as such, could not claim the privileges of
citizens in any particular State; yet the citizens of each of
the States and the citizens of the United States would be
entitled to certain privileges and immunities as citizens, at
the hands of their own government-privileges and immunities which their own governments respectively would be
bound to respect and maintain. In this free country, the
people of which inherited certain traditionary rights and
privileges from their ancestors, citizenship means something.
It has certain privileges and immunities attached to it which
the government, whether restricted by express or implied
limitations, cannot take away or impair. It may do so temporarily by force, but it cannot do so by right. And these
privileges and immunities attach as well to citizenship of
the United States as to citizenship of the States.
The people of this country brought with them to its shores
the rights of Englishmen; the rights which had been wrested
from English sovereigns at various periods of the nation's
history. One of these fundamental rights was expressed in
these words, found in Magna Charta: "No freeman shall
be taken or imprisoned, or be disseized of his freehold or
liberties or free customs, or be outlawed or exiled, or any
otherwise destroyed; nor will we pass upon him or condemn

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

OASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Bradley, J.

him but by lawful judgment of his peers or-by the law of
the land." English constitutional writers expound this
article as rendering life, liberty, and property inviolable, except by due process of law. This is the very right which
the plaintiffs in error claim in this case. Another of these
rights was that of habeas corpus, or the right of having any
invasion of personal liberty judicially examined into, at
once, by a competent judicial magistrate. Blackstone classifies these fundamental rights under three heads, as the
absolute rights of individuals, to wit: the right of personal
security, the right of personal liberty, and the right of private property. And of the last he says: "The third absolute right, inherent in every Englishman, is that of property,
which consists in the free use, enjoyment, and disposal of
all his acquisitions, without any control or diminution save
only by the laws of the land."
The privileges and immunities of Englishmen were established and secured by long usage and by various acts of
Parliament. But it may be said that the Parliament of
England has unlimited authority, and might repeal the laws
which have from time to time been enacfed. Theoretically
this is so, but practically it is not. England has no written
constitution, it is true; but it has an unwritten one, resting
in the acknowledged, and frequently declared, privileges of
Parliament and the people, to violate which in any material
respect would produce a revolution in an hour. A violation
of one of the fundamental principles of that constitution in
the Colonies, namely, the principle that recognizes the property of the people as their own, and which, therefore, regards all taxes for the support of government as gifts of the
people through their representatives, and regards taxation
without representation as subversive of free government,
was the origin of our own revolution.
This, it is true, was the violation of a.political right;
but personal rights were deemed equally sacred, and were
claimed by the very first Congress of the Colonies, assembled in 1774, as the undoubted inheritance of the people of
this country; and the Declaration of Independence, which

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ck

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Bradley, J.

was the first political act of the American people in their
independent sovereign capacity, lays the foundation of our
National existence upon this broad proposition: "That all
men are created equal; that they are endowed by their
Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these
are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." Here again
we have the great threefold division of the rights of freemen, asserted as the rights of man. Rights to life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness are equivalent to the rights
of life, liberty, and property. These are the fundamental
rights which can only be taken away by due process of
law, and which can only be interfered with, or the enjoyment of which can only be modified, by lawful regulations
necessary or proper for the mutual good of all; and these
rights, I contend, belong to the citizens of every free government.
For the preservation, exercise, and enjoyment of these
rights the individual citizen, as a necessity, must be left free
to adopt such calling, profession, or trade as may seem to
him most conducive to that end. Without this right he
cannot be a freeman. This right to choose one's calling is
an essential part of that liberty which it is the object of
government to protect; and a calling, when chosen, is a
man's property and right. Liberty and property are not
protected where these rights are arbitrarily assailed.
I think sufficient has been said to show that citizenship is
not an empty name, but that, in this country at least, it has
connected with it certain incidental rights, privileges, and
immunities of the greatest importance. And to say that
these rights and immunities attach only to State citizenship,
and not to citizenship of the United States, appears to me
to evince a very narrow and insufficient estimate of constitutional history and the rights of men, not to say the rights
of the American people.
On this point the often-quoted language of Mr. Justice
Washington, in Corfieldv. Coryell,* is very instructive. Being
* 4 Washington, 380.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Bradley, J.

called upon to expound that clause in the fourth article of
the Constitution, which declares that "the citizens of each
State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities
of citizens in the several States," he says: "The inquiry is,
what are the privileges and immunities of citizens in the
several States? We feel no hesitation in confining these expressions to those privileges and immunities which are, in
their nature, fundamental; which belong, of right, to the
citizens of all free governments, and which have at all times
been enjoyed by the citizens of the several States which
compose this Union from the time of their becoming free,
independent, and sovereign. What these fundamental privileges are it would perhaps be more tedious than difficult
to enumerate. They may, however, be all comprehended
under the following general heads: Protection by the government; the enjoyment of life and liberty, with the right
to acquire and possess property of every kind, and to pursue
and obtain happiness and safety, subject, nevertheless, to
such restraints as the government may justly prescribe for
the general good of the whole; the right of a citizen of one
State to pass through, or to reside in, any other State for
purposes of trade, agriculture, professional pursuits, or otherwise; to claim the benefit of the writ of habeas corpus; to
institute and maintain actions of any kind in the courts of
ihe State; to take, hold, and dispose of property, either real
:)r personal; and an exemption from higher taxes or impo
8itions than are paid by the other citizens of the State, may
be mentioned as some of the particular privileges and immunities of citizens which are clearly embraced by the general description of privileges deemed to be fundamental."
It is pertinent to observe that both the clause of the Constitution referred to, and Justice Washington in his comment
on it, speak of the privileges and immunities of citizens in

- State; not of citizens of a State. It is the privileges and
immunities of citizens, that is, of citizens as such, that are
to be accorded to citizens of other States when they are
found in any State; or, as Justice Washington says, "privileges and immunities which are, in their nature, fundamen-

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Bradley, J.

tal; which belong, of right, to the citizens of all free gov.
ernments."
It is true the courts have usually regarded the clause referred to as securing only an equality of privileges with
the citizens of the State in which the parties are found.
Equality before the law is undoubtedly one of the privileges
and immunities of every citizen. I am not aware that any
case has arisen in which it became necessary to vindicate
any other fundamental privilege of citizenship; although
rights have been claimed which were not deemed fundamental, and have been rejected as not within the protection
of this clause.' Be this, however, as it may, the language
of the clause is as I have stated it, and seems fairly susceptible of a broader interpretation than that which makes
it a guarantee of mere equality of privileges with other
citizens.
But we are not bound to resort to implication, or to the
constitutional history of England, to find an authoritative
declaration of some of the most important privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States. It is in the Constitution itself. The Constitution, it is true, as it stood prior
to the recent amendments, specifies, in terms, only a few of
the personal privileges and immunities of citizens, but they
are very comprehensive in their character. The States were
merely prohibited from passing bills of attainder, ex post
facto laws, laws impairing the obligation of contracts, and
perhaps one or two more. But others of the greatest consequence were enumerated, although they were only secured,
in express terms, from invasion by the Federal government;
such as the right of habeas corpus, the right of trial by jury,
of free exercise of religious worship, the right of free speech
and a free press, the right peaceably to assemble for the discussion of public measures, the right to be secure against unreasonable searches and seizures, and above all, and including almost all the rest, the right of not being deprived of life,
liberty, or property, without due process of law. These, and still
others are specified in the original Constitution, or in the
early amendments of it, as among the privileges and im.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HousE CASES.

119

Di3senting opinions.-Opinion of Bradley, J.

munities of citizens of the United States, or, what is still
stronger for the force of the argument, the rights of all persons, whether citizens or not.
But even if the Constitution were silent, the fundamental
privileges and immunities of citizens, as such, would be no
less real and no less inviolable than they now are. It was
not necessary to say in words that the citizens of the United
States should have and exercise all the privileges of citizens;
the privilege of buying, selling, and enjoying property; the
privilege of engaging in any lawful employment for a livelihood; the privilege of resorting to the laws for redress of
injuries, and the like. Their very citizenship conferred
privileges, if they did not possess them before. And
these privileges they would enjoy whether they were citizens of any State or not. Inhabitants of Federal territories
and new citizens, made such by annexation of territory or
naturalization, though without any status as citizens of a
State, could, nevertheless, as citizens of the United States,
lay claim to every one of the privileges and immunities
which have been enumerated; and among these none is
more essential and fundamental than the right to follow
such profession or employment as each one may choose, subject only to uniform regulations equally applicable to all.
I. The next question to be determined in this case is: Is
a monopoly or exclusive right, given to one person, or corporation, to the exclusion of all others, to keep slaughterhouses in a district of nearly twelve hundred square miles,
for the supply of meat for a great city, a reasonable regulation of that employment which the legislature has a right to
impose?
The keeping of a slaughter-house is part of, and incidental
to, the trade of a butcher-one of the ordinary occupations
of human life. To compel a butcher, or rather all the
butchers of a large city and an extensive district, to slaughter their cattle in another person's slaughter-house and pay
him a toll therefor, is such a restriction upon the trade as
materially to interfere with its prosecution. It is onerous,
unreasonable, arbitrary, and unjust. It has none of the

-these

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Bradley, J.

qualities of a police regulation. If it were really a police
regulation, it would undoubtedly be within the power of the
legislature. That portion of the act which requires all
slaughter-houses to be located below the city, and to be subject to inspection, &c., is clearly a police regulation. That
portion which allows no one but the favored company to
build, own, or have slaughter-houses is not a police regulation, and has not the faintest semblance of one. It is one
of those arbitrary and unjust laws made in the interest of a
few scheming individuals, by which some of the Southern
States have, within the past few years, been so deplorably
oppressed and impoverished. It seems to me strange that
it can be viewed in any other light.
The granting of monopolies, or exclusive privileges to individuals or corporations, is an invasion of the right of others
to choose a lawful calling, and an infringement of personal
liberty. It was so felt by the English nation as far back as
the reigns of Elizabeth and James. A fierce struggle for
the suppression of such monopolies, and for abolishing the
prerogative of creating them, was made and was successful.
The statute of 21st James, abolishing monopolies, was one
of those constitutional landmarks of English liberty which
the English nation so highly prize and so jealously preserve.
It was a part of that inheritance which our fathers brought
with them. This statute abolished all monopolies except
grants for a term of years to the inventors of new manufactures. This exception is the groundwork of patents for new
inventions and copyrights of books. These have always
been sustained as beneficial to the state. But all other monopolies were abolished, as tending to the impoverishment
of the people and to interference with their free pursuits.
And ever since that struggle no English-speaking people
have ever endured such an odious badge of tyranny.
It has been suggested that this was a mere legislative act,
and that the British Parliament, as well as our own legislatures, have frequently disregarded it by granting exclusive
privileges for erecting ferries, railroads, markets, and other
establishments of a public kind. It requires but a slight

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE OASES.
Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Bradley, J.

acquaintance with legal history to know that grants of this
kind of franchises are totally diferent from the monopolies
of commodities or of ordinary callings or pursuits. These
public franchises can only be exercised under authority from
the government, and the government may grant them on
such conditions as it sees fit. But even these exclusive
privileges are becoming more and more odious, and are
getting to be more and more regarded as wrong in principle,
and as inimical to the just rights and greatest good of the
people. But to cite them as proof of the power of legislatures to create mere monopolies, such as no free and enlightened community any longer endures, appears to me, to
say the least, very strange and illogical.
Lastly: Can the Federal courts administer relief to citizens of the United States whose privileges and immunities
have been abridged by a State? Of this I entertain no
doubt. Prior to the fourteenth amendment this could not
be done, except in a few instances, for the want of the requisite authority.
As the great mass of citizens of the United States were
also citizens of individual States, many of their general
privileges and immunities would be the same in the one
capacity as in the other. Having this double citizenship,
and the great body of municipal laws intended for the protection of person and property being the laws of the State,
and no provision being made, and no machinery provided
by the Constitution, except in a few specified cases, for any
interference by the General Government between a State
and its citizens, the protection of the citizen in the enjoyment of his fundamental privileges and immunities (except
where a citizen of one State went into another State) was
largely left to State laws and State courts, where they will
still continue to be left unless actually invaded by the unconstitutional acts or delinquency of the State governments
themselves.
Admitting, therefore, that formerly the States were not
prohibited from infringing any of the fundamental privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States; except

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

OASES.

[Sup. C3t.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Bradley, J.

in a few specified cases, that cannot be said now, since the
adoption of the fourteenth amendment. In my judgment,
it was the intention of the people of this country in adopting
that amendment to provide iational security against violation by the States of the fundamental rights of the citizen.
The first section of this amendment, after declaring that
all persons born or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to its jurisdiction, are citizens of the United States
and of the State wherein they reside, proceeds to declare
further, that "no State shall make or enforce any law which
shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of
life, liberty, or property, without due process of law, nor
deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws;" and that Congress shall have power
to enforce by appropriate legislation the provisions of this
article.
Now, here is a clear prohibition on the States against
making or enforcing any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States.
If my views are correct with regard to what are the privileges and immunities of citizens, it follows conclusively that
any law which establishes a sheer monopoly, depriving a
large class of citizens of the privilege of pursuing a lawful
employment, does abridge the privileges of those citizens.
The amendment also prohibits any State from depriving
any person (citizen or otherwise) of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law.
In my view, a law which prohibits a large class of citizens
from adopting a lawful employment, or from following a
lawful employment previously adopted, does deprive them
of liberty as well as property, without due process of law.
Their right of choice is a portion of their liberty; their
occupation is their property. Such a law also deprives those
citizens of the equal protection of the laws, contrary to the
last clause of the section.
The constitutional question is distinctly raised in these
cases; the constitutional right is expressly claimed; it was

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Bradley, J.

violated by State law, which was sustained by the State
court, and we are called upon in a legitimate and proper
way to afford redress. Our jurisdiction and our duty are
plain and imperative.
It is futile to argue that none but persons of the African
race are intended to be benefited by this amendment. They
may have been the primary cause of the amendment, but its
language is general, embracing all citizens, and I think it
was purposely so expressed.
The mischief to be remedied was not merely slavery and
its incidents and consequences; but that spirit of insubordination and disloyalty to the National government which had
troubled.the country for so many years in some of the States,
and that intolerance of free speech and free discussion which
often rendered life and property insecure, and led to much
unequal legislation. The amendment was an attempt to
give voice to the strong National yearning for that time
and that condition of things, in which American citizenship
should be a sure guaranty of safety, and in which every
citizen of the United States might stand erect on every portion of its soil, in the full enjoyment of every right and
privilege belonging to a freeman, without fear of violence or
molestation.
But great fears are expressed that this construction of the
amendment will lead to enactments by Congress interfering
with the internal affairs of the States, and establishing
therein civil and criminal codes of law for the government
of the citizens, and thus abolishing the State governments
in everything but name; or else, that it will lead the Federal
courts to draw to their cognizance the supervision of State
tribunals on every subject of judicial inquiry, on the plea of
ascertaining whether the privileges and immunities of citizens have not been abridged.
In my judgment no such practical inconveniences would
arise. Very little, if any, legislation on the part of Congress
would be required to carry the amendment into effect. Like
the prohibition against passing a law impairing the obligation of a contract, it would execute itself. The point would

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Swayne, 3.

be regularly raised, in a suit at law, and settled by final reference to the Federal court. As the privileges and immunities protected are only those fundamental ones which belong to every citizen, they would soon become so far defined
as to cause but a slight accumulation of business in the Federal courts. Besides, the recognized existence of the law
would prevent its frequent violation. But even if the business of the National courts should be increased, Congress
could easily supply the remedy by increasing their number
and efficiency. The great question is, What is the true construction of the amendment? XWhen once we find that, we
shall find the means of giving it effect. The argument from
inconvenience ought not to have a very controlling influence
in questions of this sort. The National will and National
interest are of far greater importance.
In my opinion the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana ought to be reversed.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE, dissenting:
I concur in the dissent in these cases and in the views expressed by my brethren, Mr. Justice Field and Mr. Justice
Bradley. I desire, however, to submit a few additional remarks.
The first eleven amendments to the Constitution were intended to be checks and limitations upon the government
which that instrument called into existence. They had
their origin in a spirit of jealousy on the part of the States,
which existed when the Constitution was adopted. The
first ten were proposed in 1789 by the first Congress at its
first session after the organization of the government. The
eleventh was proposed in 1794, and the twelfth in 1803.
The one last mentioned regulates the mode of electing the
President and Vice-President. It neither increased nor diminished the power of the General Government, and may be
said in that respect to occupy neutral ground. No further
amendments were made until 1865, a period of more than
sixty years. The thirteenth amendment was proposed by
Congress on the 1st of February, 1865, the fourteenth on

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Swayne, J.

the 16th of June, 1866, and the fifteenth on the 27th of
February, 1869. These amendments are a new departure,
and mark an important epoch in the constitutional history
of the country. They trench directly upon the power of
the States, and deeply affect those bodies. They are, in this
respect, at the opposite pole from the first eleven.*
Fairly construed these amendments may be said to rise to
the dignity of a new Magna Charta. The thirteenth blotted
out slavery and forbade forever its restoration. It struck
the fetters from four millions of human beings and raised
them at once to the sphere of freemen. This was an act of
grace and justice performed by the Nation. Before the war
it could have been done only by the States where the institution existed, acting severally and separately from each
other. The power then rested whollywith them. In that
way, apparently, such a result could never have occurred.
The power of Congress did not extend to the subject, except
in the Territories.
The fourteenth amendment consists of five sections. The
first is as follows: "All persons born or naturalized within
the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof,
are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein
they reside. No State shall make any law which shall
abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States, nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty,
or property, without due process of law, nor deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the
laws."
The fifth section declares that Congress shall have power
to enforce the provisions of this amendment by appropriate
legislation.
The fifteenth amendment declares that the right to vote
shall not be denied or abridged by the United States, or by
any State, on account of race, color, or previous condition
of servitude. Until this amendment was adopted the sub* Barron v. Baltimore, 7 :Peters, 243; Livingston v. Moore, lb. 551; Fox
v. Ohio, 5 Howard, 429; Smith v. Maryland, 18 Id. 71; Pervear v. Commonwealth, 5 Wallace, 476; Twitchell v. Commonwealth, 7 Id. 821.

SLAUGHTER-HousE
Dissenting opinions -Opinion

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

of Swayne, J.

ject to which it relates was wholly within the jurisdiction
of the States. The General Government was excluded from
participation.
The first section of the fourteenth amendment is alone involved in the consideration of these cases. No searching
analysis is necessary to eliminate its meaning. Its language is intelligible and direct. Nothing can be more transparent. Every word employed has an established signification. There is no room for construction. There is nothing
to construe. Elaboration may obscure, but cannot make
clearer, the intent and purpose sought to be carried out.
(1.) Citizens of the States and of the United States are
defined.
(2.) It is declared that no State shall, by law, abridge the
privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States.
(3.) That no State shall deprive any person, whether a citizen or not, of life, liberty, or property, without due process
of law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws.
A citizen of a State is ipso facto a citizen of the United
States. No one can be the former without being also the
latter; but the latter, by losing his residence in one State
without acquiring it in another, although he continues to be
the latter, ceases for the time to be the former. "The privileges and immunities" of a citizen of the United States include, among other things, the fundamental rights of life,
liberty, and property, and also the rights which pertain to
him by reason of his membership of the Nation. The citizen of a State has the same fundamental rights as a citizen
of the United States, and also certain others, local in their
-haracter, arising from his relation to the State, and in
addition, those which belong to the citizen of the United
States, he being in that relation also. There may thus be a
double citizenship, each having some rights peculiar to itself.
It is only over those which belong to the citizen of the
United States that the category here in question throws the
shield of its protection. All those which belong to the citizen of a State, except as to bills of attainder, ex post facto

Dee. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Swayne, J.

laws, and laws impairing the obligation of contracts,* are
!eft to the guardianship of the bills of rights, constitutions,
and laws of the States respectively. Those rights may all
be enjoyed in every State by the citizens of every other State
by virtue of clause 2, section 4, article 1, of the Constitution
of the United States as it was originally framed. This section does not in anywise affect them; such was not its purpose.
In the next category, obviously ex industriO, to prevent, as
far as may be, the possibility of misinterpretation, either as
to persons or things, the phrases "citizens of the United
States" and "privileges and immunities" are dropped, and
more simple and comprehensive terms are substituted. The
substitutes are "any person," and "life," "liberty," and
"property," and "the equal protection of the laws." Life,
liberty, and property are forbidden to be taken "without
due process of law," and " equal protection of the laws " is
guaranteed to all. Life is the gift of God, and the right to
preserve it is the most sacred of the rights of man. Liberty
is freedom from all restraints but such as are justly imposed
by law. Beyond that line lies the domain of usurpation
and Iyranny. Property is everything which has an exchangeable value, and the right of property includes the
power to dispose of it according to the will of the owner.
Labor is property, and as such merits protection. The right
to make it available is next in importance to the rights of
life and liberty. It lies to a large extent at the foundation
of most other forms of property, and of all solid individual
and national prosperity. "Due process of law" is the application of the law as it exists in the fair and regular course
of administrative procedure. "The equal protection of the
laws" places all upon a footing of legal equality and gives
the same protection to all for the preservation of life, liberty,
and property, and the pursuit of happiness.t
* Constitution of the United States, Article I, Section 10.

t Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Washington, 380; Lemmon v. The People, 26
Barbour, 274, and 20 New York, 626; Conner v. Elliott, 18 Howard, 593;
MSIurray v. M-fCarty, 2 Mumford, 399; Campbell v. Morris, 3 Harris &

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Swayne, J.

It is admitted that the plaintits in error are citizens of
the United States, and persons within the jurisdiction of
Louisiana. The cases before us, therefore, present but two
questions.
(1.) Does the act of the legislature creating the monopoly
in question abridge the privileges and immunities of the
plaintiffs in error as citizens of the United States?
(2.) Does it deprive them of liberty or property without
due process of law, or deny them the equal protection of
the laws of the State, they being persons " within its jurisdiction ?"
Both these inquiries I remit for their answer as to the
facts to the opinions of my brethren, Mr. Justice Field and
Mr. Justice Bradley. They are full and conclusive upon
the subject. A more flagrant and indefensible invasion of
the rights of many for the benefit of a few has not occurred
in the legislative history of the country. The response to
both inquiries should be in the affirmative. In my opinion
the cases, as presented in the record, are clearly within the
letter and meaning of both the negative categories of the
sixth section. The judgments before us should, therefore,
be reversed.
These amendments are all consequences of the late civil
war. The prejudices and apprehension as to the central
government which prevailed when the Constitution was
adopted were dispelled by the light of experience. The
public mind became satisfied that there was less danger of
tyranny in the head than of anarchy and tyranny in the
members. The provisions of this section are all eminently
conservative in their character. They are a bulwark of defence, and can never be made an engine of oppression. The
language employed is unqualified in its scope. There is no
exception in its terms, and there can be properly none in
their application. By the language "citizens of the United
States" was meant all such citizens; and by "any person"
McHenry, 554; Towles's Case, 5 Leigh, 748; State v. Medbury, 3 Rhode
Island, 142; 1 Tucker's Blackstone, 145; 1 Cooley's Blackstone, 125, 128.

Dec. 1872.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Dissenting opinions.-Opinion of Swayne, J.

was meant all persons within the jurisdiction of the State.
No distinction is intimated on account of race or color. This,
court has no authority to interpolate a limitation that is,
neither expressed nor implied. Our duty is to execute the
law, not to make it. The protection provided was not intended -to be confined to those of any particular race or
class, but to embrace equally all races, classes, and conditions of men. It is objected that the power conferred is,
novel aid large. The answer is that the novelty was knowrt
and the measure deliberately adopted. The power is be
neficdnt in its nature, and cannot be abused. It is- such av
should exist in every well-ordered system of polity. Wher,
could it be. more appropriately lodged than in the hands tj
which itois confided? It is necessary to enable the government of the nation to secure to every one within its juris.
diction the rights and privileges enumerated, which, accord.
ing to the plainest considerations of reason and justice and
the fundamental principles of the social compact, all are
entitled to enjoy. Without such authority any government
claiming to be national is glaringly defective. The construction adopted by the majority of my brethren is, in my
judgment, much too narrow. It defeats, by a limitation
not anticipated, the intent of those by whom the instrument
was framed and of those by whom it was adopted. To the
extent of that limitation it turns, as it were, what was meant
for bread into a stone. By the Constitution, as it stood before the war, ample protection was given against oppressiorx
by the Union, but little was given against wrong and oppression by the States. That want was intended to be supplied by this amendment. Against the former this court
has been called upon more than once to interpose. Authority of the same amplitude was intended to be conferred
as to the latter. But this arm of our jurisdiction is, in these
cases, stricken down by the judgment just given. Iowhere,
than in this court, ought the will of the nation, as thus ex
pressed, to be more liberally construed or more cordially
executed. This determination of the majority seems to me
to' lie far in the other direction.
VOL.

xvi.

9

BRADWELL

v.

THE STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

I earnestly hope that the consequences to follow may
prove less serious and far-reaching than the minority fear
they will be.

BRADWELL

v.

THE STATE.

1. The Supreme Court of Illinois having refused to grant to a woman a
license to practice law in the courts of that State, on the ground that
females are not eligible under the laws of that State; Held, that such a
decision violates no provision of the Federal Constitution.
2. The second section of the fourth article is inapplicable, because the plaintiff was a citizen of the State of whose action she complains, and that
section only guarantees privileges and immunities to citizens of other
States, in that State.
8. Nor is the right to practice law in the State courts a privilege or immunity of a citizen of the United States, within the meaning of the first
section of the fourteenth article of amendment of the Constitution of
the United States.
4. The power of a State to prescribe the qualifications for admission to the
bar of its own courts is unaffected by the fourteenth amendment, and
this court cannot inquire into the reasonableness or propriety of the
rules it may prescribe.

IN error to the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois.
Mrs. Myra Bradwell, residing in the State of Illinois, made
application to the judges of the Supreme Court of that State
for a license to practice law. She accompanied her petition
with the usual certificate from an inferior court of her good
character, and that on due examination she had been found
to possess the requisite qualifications. Pending this application she also filed an affidavit, to the effect "that she was
born in the State of Vermont; that she was (had been) a
citizen of that State; that she is now a citizen of the United
States, and has been for many years past a resident of the
city of Chicago, in the State of Illinois." And with this
affidavit she also filed a paper asserting that, under the foregoing facts, she was entitled to the license prayed for by
virtue of the second section of the fourth article of the Constitution of the United States, and of the fourteenth article
of amend ment of that instrument.

