BURKE V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

tains no evidence upon the subject, nor is any such question
presented in any one of the bills of exceptions.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND MODIFIED, by disallowing the sum
of $5000 damages found by the jury and included in the
judgment, and the interest allowed on the same, and the
cause remanded with directions to enter a judgment for the
plaintiff for the residue found by the jury, with interest.

BURKE V. SMITH.
The laws of a State required that before being oiganized, all railroad companies should have a subscription to their stock of not less than $50,000.
Certain persons did subscribe more than this (to wit, $148,750), with a
proviso, however, that if a certain city in its corporate capacity subscribed $50,000 or upwards, the city should accept what each of them
bad subscribed above a small sum ($300) named. The city did subscribe
the $50,000, and much more ($400,000), when, A.D. 1853, the directors
of the company-these directors being themselves persons who had subscribed part of the $148,750-passed a resolution authorizing the original subscribers to transfer to the city all stock subscribed by them over
$300 each, and that the stock thus transferred be merged in the subscription made by the city.
As appeared by "an agreement of record," in which, without signature
of anybody attached, it was certified by the clerk that it was admitted
by the complainants on the final hearing that all the subscribers transferred, before July, 1854, their stock (above $300) to the city; that non&
of the original subscribers were ever charged on the books of the company with any greater amount than $300; that this sum had been paid
by each, and accepted by the company in full satisfaction.
The company being insolvent in 1858, and the executions of creditors
being then returned unsatisfied, the creditors of the company, in 1868,
filed a bill against the original subscribers to make them pay up the
excess over $300 which they had subscribed. Held,
1. That these subscribers could not be made liable for such excess.
2. That the proceeding being one in equity and not at law, the "agreement of record," though not made part of the record by the pleadings,
would be regarded as evidence.
3. That it proved the transfer and acceptance of the stock by the city.
4. That the fact that the directors were original subscribers did not affect
the case; the transfer having been in accordance with the conditions on
which the original subscription was made, and in itself fair.

.Dec. 1872.]

BURIKE V.

SMITH.

Statement of the case.
6. That independent of all this, the bill probably could not be maintained
because of laches.

APPEA: from the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana, the case being thus:
Burke, Putnam, and others were the equitableowners of
a judgment recovered in 1857 against the New Albany and
Sandusky Railroad Company. Upon this judgment an execution was issued in 1858, which, on the 1st of December
of that year, was returned "nulla bona." On the 29th of
January, 1868, that is to say, about ten years after the execution had been thus returned unsatisfied,-they brought the
present suit. It was a bill in chancery against one Smith
and some twenty-seven other defendants, and, alleging the
insolvency of the company, it sought to subject to the pay.
ment of the judgment, rights which, it alleged, the company
had against the said defendants. It averred that the defendants, on the 22d of August, 1853, under the general railroad
laws of Indiana, organized the above-named railroad company and subscribed to its capital stock, severally, amounts
which they had never paid, and the object of the bill was to
compel the payment of the debts thus incurred, and the application of the payments to the satisfaction of the complainants' judgment. The facts were these:
On the 22d of August, 1853, under the general railroad
laws of the State, the defendants, with others, united in
forming articles of association for the incorporation of the
New Albany and Sandusky Railroad Company, and severally 6ubscribed to its capital stock in sums varying from
$1000 to $5000. [The railroad laws referred to allow, it may
be added, no organization of a road until at least $50,000,
or $1000 for every mile of the proposed road, shall have
been established.] The articles of association contained the
following stipulation:

"Provided, however, and it is hereby understood, that if the
city of New Albany, in its corporate capacity, shall hereafter
take stock in this corporation to the amount of $50,000 or up.
wards, inasmuch as the present subscribers being residents of,

BURKE V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and owning property in said city, will then be under the necessity of contributing still further to the corporation by way of
taxation, unless a portion of the present subscription is taken
off their hands, the said city shall accept, in part of the amount
to be subscribed in its corporate capacity, at its par value, a
transfer of any amount of stock now subscribed for by each individual over and above the amount of six shares, or $300, which
each such individual may desire or request shall be so transferred."
There were fifty-five original subscribers, and the aggregate amount of the subscriptions was $148,750. With such
a subscription, and under such articles of association, the
subscribers became a corporate body. After their incorporation the city of New Albany subscribed $400,000 to the
capital stock of the company.* This subscription was made
on the 19th of November, 1853, and on the 81st of December next following, the directors of the company adopted an
order,
"That the original subscribers to the articles of association
be permitted, in accordance with the stipulations contained in
the articles, to transfer any amount of the stock so originally
subscribed by them over and above the amount of six shares, or
$300, to the city of New Albany; said city having made a subscription to the stock of said company to the amount of $50,000
and upwards, and that the stock thus transferred be merged
in the subscription already made by said city, so that the stock
of said city, under her present subscription, with the stock so
transferred, shall not exceed $400,000 as subscribed by her."
The directors of the company, who made this order, were
themselves subscribers, like the defendants, fbr more than
six shares, or sums above $300.
So far, there was no controversy respecting the facts.
And there was also an "agreement of record"-a document certified by the clerk of the court below, with the
bill, answers, depositions, &c., as part of the full, true, -nd
* This subscription had not been paid in cash, but had been settled between the railroad company and the city by a compromise. .ee New Albany
v. Burke, 11 Wallace, 98.-REP.

Dec. 1872.]

BURKE v. SmiTHi.
Argument for the appellants.

complete copy and transcript of the record and proceedings
in the case-that the defendants transferred to the city of
New Albany all the stock subscribed by them in excess of
$300 for each, in compliance with the stipulation contained
in the original articles of association; that the transfers were
made before the Ist day of July, 1854; that none of these
original subscribers were ever charged on the books of the
railroad company with any greater amount of stock than
$300; that the amount of stock charged against each (viz.,
$300) had been fully paid long before the filing of this bill,
and when called by the company, and that -such payments
had been accepted by the company as full satisfaction of the
respective subscriptions.
The question was, whether the defendants were debtors to
the railroad company for any excess of their subscriptions
above $300.
The court below was of opinion that they were not, and
dismissed the bill against them.
The complainants appealed.
Messrs. Burke, Porter, and HYarrison, for the appellants:
The defendants confessedly subscribed large sums to the
stock of the road, and so organized it. By the laws of Indiana it could not have been otherwise organized. Having
organized it and given it the power to incur debts, and it
having incurred them, these persons-the solid and solvent
subscribers-the men on the faith of whose subscriptions
creditors have given money and done work-all at once and
suddenly vanish from the scene.
Now are they released?
The directors certainly had no power to release them as
against the creditors of the company. This is certain.
The argument then will be that the subscribers have made
a transfer of their stock to the city, and that the city having
assumed their subscription, they are discharged! But the
record shows no copy of any transfer. What is said by the
clerk under the head of "agreement of record" constitutes
no pari of the record at law. That this court cannot notice

BURKE V. SMIITH.

[Sup. Cf.

Opinion of the court.

such a paper was decided in Fisher v. Cockerell,* in Suydam
v. Williarnson,t lYew Orleans v. Gaines,J and in other cases.
Then even if a paper transferring the stock were shown,
there is no evidence that the city ever accepted the transfer.
What power indeed, supposing a transfer to have been attempted to be made-what power had the city in its corporate capacity to accept it ? So fir as appears it had none.
Then again. The act of the directors releasing the defendants was void, not only on general principles, but also
because they were all personally interested in having such
an order of release, and in fact all availed themselves of it.
The whole operation is void. It is an attempt upon the
part of the directors to allow a cancellation of so much stock,
a nominal transfer to the city, but a real blotting out of so
much stock; a transfer that would relieve the directors and
their fellows, but that would not increase the stock of the
transferee. Whatever name may be given such a transaction, its substance and effect, if permitted, would be to
reduce the capital of the company and its means of paying
its debts and carrying out the objects of the corporation to
the extent of the amount so transferred. The directors
have no authority to thus dispose of the effects of the corporation.

Mr. X. C. Kerr, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The question to be solved is whether the appellees are
debtors to the railroad company for the excess of the subscriptions above $300, made by them to the articles of association. If they are, the complainants have an equitable
right to subject those debts to the payment of the judgment
they have against the railroad company. And it must also
be conceded that if the company has, in fraud of its creditors, released subscribers to its stock from the payment of
their subscriptions, the release is inoperative to protect those
* 5 Peters, 248.

t 20 Howard, 427.

$ 22 Id. 141.

Dec. 1872.]

BURKE v. SmITH.
Opinion of the court.

subscribers against claims of the creditors. Under the law
of the State, all railroad companies are required to have
a subscription to their capital stock not less than $1000 for
every mile of their proposed roads before they may exercise
corporate powers. This requirement is intended as a protection to the public, and to the creditors of the companies.
And it is clear that the directors of a company, organized
under the law, have no power to destroy it, to give away its
funds, or deprive it of any. means which it possesses to accomplish the purposes for which it was incorporated. The
stock subscribed is the capital of the company, its means for
performing its duty to the commonwealth, and to those who
deal with it. Accordingly, it has been settled by very numerous decisions that the directors of a company are incompetent to release an original subscriber to its capital stock,
or to make any arrangement with him by which the company, its creditors, or the State shall lose any of the benefit
of his subscription. Every such arrangement is regarded
in equity, not merely as ultra vires, but as a fraud upon the
other stockholders, upon the public, and upon the creditors
of the company.
It is upon these principles that the appellants in this case
rely, and the question is whether they are applicable to the
facts as found.
That the subscriptions made by the appellees to the articles of association for the incorporation of the company
were, according to their terms, not absolute engagements
to pay for a greater amount of stock than $300 for each subscriber is undeniable. They were engagements to pay for
the number of shares subscribed, only on the contingency
that the city of New Albany should not afterwards take
stock in the corporation to the amount of $50,000 or upwards, or, if such stock should be taken, on the contingency
that they failed to transfer a part of their subscriptions to
the city. Such was the letter and the spirit of the contract
entered into by each subscriber. Whether the law permitted it to have such a legal effect we will presently consider.
But that such was its meaning, independently of any rule

BURKE V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of legal policy, is very plain. It is the very language of the
articles of association. When, therefore, the directors of
the company, on the 31st of December, 1853, ordered that
the original subscribers to the articles, in accordance with
the stipulation contained therein, be permitted to transfer
any amount of the stock (exceeding six shares) subscribed
by them to the city of New Albany (that city having made
a subscription exceeding $50,000), and ordered that the
stock thus transferred be merged in the stock subscribed
by the city, the order was no more than allowing the contract to be performed as made. It was no release of any
rights which the company had; no abandonment of any resources of the corporation. It was no more than the subscribers, in view of the provisions of their contract, had a
right to demand. Unless the contract must be held to have
been an absolute undertaking, that each subscriber would
himself pay for all the stock subscribed by him, it was fully
performed by the payment of $300 and the transfer of the
excess to the city to be merged in its larger subscription.
It must, however, be conceded that conditions attached
to subscriptions for the stock of a railroad company made
before its incorporation have, in many cases, been held to
be void, and the subscriptions have been treated as absolute.
The question respecting their validity has most frequently
arisen when the condition has been that the proposed road
should be located in a specified manner, or over a defined
line. But other conditions have been held invalid, and
have been disregarded by the courts. The reasons for such
a ruling are obvious, and they commend themselves to universal approval. When a company is incorporated under
general laws, as theNew Albany and Sandusky Railroad Company was, and the law prescribes that a certain amount of
stock shall be subscribed before corporate powers shall be
exercised, if subscriptions, obtained before the organization
was effected, may be subsequently rendered unavailable by
conditions attached to them, the substantial requirements
of the laws are defeated. The purpose of such a requisition
is, that the State may be assured of the successful prosecu-

Dec. 1872.]

BURKE v. Smim
Opinion of the court.

tion of the work, and that creditors of the company may
have, to the extent at least of the required subscription, the
means of obtaining satisfaction of their claims. The grant
of the franchise is, therefore, made dependent upon securing
a specified amount of capital. If the subscriptions to the
stock can be clogged with such conditions as to render it
impossible to collect the fund which the State required to
be provided before it would assent to the grant of corporate
powers, a charter might be obtained without any available
capital. Conditions attached to subscriptions, which, if
valid, lessen the capital of the company, thus depriving the
State of the security it exacted that the railroad would be
built, and diminishing the means intended for the protection of creditors, are therefore a fraud upon the grantor of
the franchise, and upon those who may become creditors of
the corporation. They are also a fraud upon unconditional
stockholders, who subscribed to the stock in the faith that
capital sufficient would be obtained to complete the projected
work, and who may be compelled to pay their subscriptions,
though the enterprise has failed, and their whole investment
has been lost. It is for these reasons that such conditions
are denied any eftect.
But the reasons of the rule are totally inapplicable to the
present case. The appellees are not asking to diminish the
capital of the company by force of any condition attached to
their subscriptions. The action of the board of directors
permitting a transfer to the city of New Albany of all the
stock originally subscribed, in excess of six shares by each
subscriber, according to the stipulations of the articles of
association, was not a release of any stock subscription, nor
was it an attempt to lessen the means of the company to
build its road and pay its creditors. We cannot, while
recognizing the rule as a sound one, overlook the peculiar
facts of this case. Under the articles of association the original subscribers undertook, not that they would respectively
pay, at all events, -for all the shares mentioned in their several'subscriptions, but, in substance and effect, that such a
number of shares should be paid for, either by themselves

BURKE V). SMITH.

[Sup. Cf,

Opinion of the court.

or by the city of New Albany, if it became a subscriber.
There was no condition by which the number of shares subscribed and made available could ever be reduced. iHad the
city taken no stock they would have been liable for all the
shares taken by them. It is impossible to see in this any
fraud upon the State or upon the creditors of the company.
They have all the security in those subscriptions which they
would have had there been no right to transfer to the city
reserved. The capital stock is all that it was represented
to be when the company became incorporated. The only
change is, that a part of it is pledged by the city of New
Albany, instead of by these appellees. No capital has been
lost by the transfer.
If, then, the reason of the rule invoked by the appellants
has no applicability to the facts of this case, the rule itself
fails, there is no condition to be stricken from the subscription, and there is no ground for holding the appellees liable
beyond the plain letter and spirit of their contract.
It is insisted, however, on behalf of the appellants that
there never was any transfer by these appellees to the city
of the excess above six shares for each, of the stock mentioned in their subscriptions, and it is denied that we can
consider the admission of such a transfer, which appears in
the record, as any proof of its having been made. It is said
that the alleged admission is an unauthorized certificate of
the clerk, which constitutes no part of the record, and we
are referred to Fisher v. Cockerell.* But that case does not
support the appellants. It was an action at common law, in
which it was said "in cases at common law, the course of
the court has been uniform, not to consider any paper as
part of the record which is not made so by the pleadings, or
by some opinion of the court referring to it. . . . The unauthorized certificate of the clerk that any document was
read, or any evidence given to the jury, cannot make that
document or that evidence a part of the record, so as to
bring it to the cognizance of this court."
* 5 Peters, 248.

Dec. 1&72.]

Bu. KE v. SMITr.
Opinion of the court.

........

.

All the other cases cited were suits at law in which, of
course, the evidence could not come upon the record except
in the regular manner. A clerk's certificate could not bring
it there. But this is a bill in equity. In such a case no
bill of exceptions is necessary to bring upon the record the
proofs and admissions of the parties.. There is the same
reason for regarding the admission which appears in this
record a part of the record, as there is for considering any
one of the depositions. It would be very extraordinary if
parties to a proceeding in equity may not, at the hear3g,
make an admission of facts, upon which the inferior court
may act, and which may be considered on appeal to this
court. And it would be still more extraordinary, if appellants, under whose direction a record in chancery has been
made up, and who have filed it here without objection, should
be permitted to assert for the first time on the argument that
the clerk had certified improperly as a part of the record, an
admission at the hearing below, which was never made, or
which, if made, we are not at liberty to regard. It is not
denied that the admission of record, certified by the clerk,
was agreed to by the parties, that it was reduced to writing,
and entered upon the record, nor is it denied that it was
considered by the court below as evidence in the cause, and
considered without objection. We must, therefore, hold
that it is to be treated as a part of the record now, and if so,
it establishes fully the transfer of the stock to the city before
July 1st, 1854; that none of the appellees were ever charged
with it on the books of the company, and that the transfer
was made with the assent of the corporation, constituting
with the payment made for the six shares not transferred,
full satisfaction of the indebtedness of the appellees, and
accepted as such. It is true there appears to have been no
written transfer. l[one was necessary. The appellees had
received no certificates. They were not on the books as
stockholders for more than six shares each, and from the
beginning it was understood and agreed that for all liability
beyond that, the city, if it subscribed, was to step into their
place.

BURKE V. S-MITH.

[-Sup. Cf.

Opinion of the court.

It is next denied that the city accepted the transfer. To
this it may be answered that the acceptance is implied in
the admission of record. There could have been no transfer
without the assent of both parties. More than this. The
other evidence tends strongly to show that the mayor and
some members of the councils of the city knew of the transfers and assented to them, and the city never dissented from
the arrangement.
It is true that a mere assignment of his share by a subscriber does not relieve him fron liability until the assignee
is substituted in his place. But here the substitution was
recognized by the company. The stock was not charged to
the appellees on the books, and after the lapse of nine years
it is too late to affirm that the transfer was not accepted.
Again, it is argued that the directors of the company were
personally interested as original subscribers, and therefore
that their order of December 31st, 1853, permitting the
transfer was illegal. But if, as we have endeavored to show,
the original subscriptions were valid as made, if the stipulation in the articles of association was not prohibited by the
law, it needed no such order of the board of directors to
validate the substitution of the city for the original subscribers. It matters not then that the directors were interested. Equity would have enjoined them against interference to prevent a transfer, with all its stipulated consequences. The substitution of the city was a matter over
which they had no discretionary power.
There is, then, we think, nothing, either in law or in the
facts, that can justify our holding that the appellees were
indebted to the company on their subscriptions when this
bill was filed; nothing to impeach the validity of the arrangement provided for in the articles of association, and carried
out afterwards with the assent of the company, by which
they were discharged from all liability.
This is sufficient for the case, and if it were not it would
be a grave inquiry, whether the laches of the appellants has
not been such that they cannot now invoke equitable relief.

Dec. 1872.-]

BURKE v. SMITH.

401

Opinion of the court.

Their judgment was recovered in 1857, and the return of
nulla bona to their execution was made in December, 1858.
Before that time the company had become insolvent, and
some five years before that time the arrangement had been
consummated which they now assail as a fraud upon the
creditors. It is incredible that they did not know of the
arrangement. The articles of association were on record
open to their inspection. Those articles exhibited in prospect precisely what was done. No one could have seei%
them without having it suggested that the original sub
scribers had not at first intended to pay for all the stoc,
mentioned in their subscription, and that it was intended
the city should take part of the stock off their hands. The
company's books, which they might have seen, would have
told them the appellees had paid for only six shares. This
was quite sufficient to make inquiry a duty. And had inquiry been made there was not the least difficulty in ascertaining the facts. Yet the present suit was delayed until
1868. True, the appellants' bill alleges the indebtedness of
the appellees by force of their contracts. It does not charge
a fraud. But it is plain that unless the arrangement by
which the subscriptions were merged in that of the city was
a fraud upon them their bill must fail. The court must set
aside that arrangement or they cannot recover. And the
burden is upon them to establish the fraud. Had their bill
been framed to set aside the arrangement because of fraud,
it must have been held to have been filed too late. The
statute of limitations bars actions for fraud in Indiana after
six years, and equity acts or refuses to act in analogy to the
statute. Can a party evade the statute or escape in equity
from the rule that the analogy of the statute will be followed
by changing the form of his bill? We think not. We
think a court of equity will not be moved to set aside a
fraudulent transaction at the suit of one who has been quiescent during a period longer than that fixed by the statute
of limitations, after he had knowledge of the fraud, or after
he was put upon inquiry with the means of knowledge accessible to him.
26
VOL. XTI.

402

HUNTINGTON

v.

TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

But we pursue this branch of the case no further. We
have already said enough to show that, in our opinion, there
was no error in the decree of the court below.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

HUNTINGTON

v.

TEXAS.

TEXAS v. HUNTINGTON.
1. Statement of the points adjudged in Texas v. White - Chiles (7 Wallace,
700), and Texas v. Hardenberg (10 Id. 68).
:2. The State of Texas provided in an act of December 16th, 1851, authorizing the comptroller of public accounts to receive five thousand bonds,
issued, of $1000 each, to the State by the United States, and payable to
bearer, that "no bond issued as aforesaid . . . payable to bearer, shall be
available in the hands of any holder until the sante shall have been indorsed...
hy the governor of the State of Texas."

The legislature of the State, when

in rebellion, by an act of January 11th, 1862, repealed this act of December 16th, 1851. Held, that notwithstanding what may have been
said in Texas v. White 4 Chiles, and in Texas v. Hardenberg, the repealing act was valid as to bonds issued and used for a lawful purpose,
and that the title of the State to such bonds, without indorsement,
passed to the holder unaffected by any claim of the State.
S. No presumption can arise from the absence of such indorsement on the
bonds that they had been issued without authority, and for an unlawful
purpose, and the presumption that they had been issued with authority
and for a lawful purpose is in favor of the holders of the bonds, especially after payment by the United States.
4. It was primarily the duty of the government, as the United States were
the obligors in the bonds, and the rebellion was waged against them, to
ascertain and decide whether bonds presented to and paid by it had or
had not been issued and used in aid of the rebellion; and after such decision the presumption must be that the parties who held the bonds were
entitled to payment as against the reconstructed State of Texas.
5. Whether an alienation of the bonds by the usurping government divested
the title of the State, depends on other circumstances than the quality
of the government. If the object and purpose of it were just in themselves and laudable, the alienation was valid; but if, on the contrary,
the object and purpose were to break up the Union and overthrow the
constitutional government of the Union, the alienation was invalid.

