Dec. 1872.]

BEALL V. NEW MEXICO.
Statement of the case.

All these are familiar principles, and they are sufficient to
dispose of the case and to show that there is no error in the
record.

recor.

. -

JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BEALL v. N1w MEXICO.
1. A statute authorizing judgment against the sureties of an appeal bond,
as well as against the appellants, in case of affirmance, is not unconstitutional.
2. A Territorial legislature, having by its organic act power over all rightful subjects of legislation, is competent to pass such an act.
8. An administrator de bonisnzon cannot sue the former administrator or his
representatives for a devastavit, or for delinquencies in office; nor can
he maintain an action on- the former administrator's bond for such
cause. The former administrator, or his representatives, are liable
directly to creditors and next of kin. The administrator de bonis nonz
has to do only with the goods of the intestate unadministered. If any
such remain in the hands of the discharged administrator or his representa'tives, in specie, he may sue for them either directly or on the
bond.
4. Regularly, a decree of the probate court against the administrator for an
amount due, and an order for leave to prosecute his bond, are prerequisites to the maintenance of a suit thereon.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of New
Mexico; the case being thus:
One Hinckley died at Santa Fe, in the Territory of New
Mexico, in October, 1866. At the time of his death he was
a member of a mercantile copartnership, consisting of himself and two persons named Blake and Wardwell, and they
carried on business at Fort Craig and other places in the
Territoi y of New Mexico.
In November, 1866, one BeaU was appointed "administrator dud executor of the estate of Hinckley, according to
the last will of the deceased," and upon such appointment
gave a bond with himself as principal and one Staab and
others as sureties, conditioned in the ordinary form:
"To account for, pay, and turn over all the moneys and property of the said estate to the legal heirs of the said deceased,

BEALL V. NEW MEXICO.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
and to execute the last testamentary will of the said deceased,
and to do all other things relative to the said administration as
required by law, or by the order of the Probate Court of the
county of Santa F6, or any other court having jurisdiction in
the matter."
In pursuance of his appointment, Beall filed in the probate court an inventory of the assets of the estate, in which,
among other things, he said:
"The property, rights, and credits of the said deceased, so far
as the undersigned, executor, has been able to obtain a knowledge thereof, were, at the time of his decease, as follows:
",The firm or partnership of which the deceased was a member with Blake and Wardwell, were owing the said deceased
the sum of $46,538.60. The undersigned being satisfied that the
sum stated is correct, has agreed to receive of the said Blake
and Wardwell, in full discharge of the capital and profits of the
said deceased, the aforesaid sum. The said Blake and Wardwell
have agreed to pay the said sum as soon as they can arrange
their affairs to do so, and within a reasonable time. The undersigned is satisfied that the said arrangement is the best he could
make for the interest of the estate, and that the payment will
be made in due time."
He subsequently ($5000 of the sum having in the meantime been paid), rendered an account to the court of probate, in which he charged himself with a balance due from
Wardwell and Blake, in this manner:
"April 30th, 1868, to amount due from Wardwell and Blake, $41,556 25."
In January, 1869, Beall, who was an officer of the army
and expected to be ordered away from New Mexico, resigned
his office of administrator, leaving the amount due from
Blake and Wardwell unpaid: and in October, 1869, one
Griffin was appointed administrator de bonis non to succeed
him. Directly after this, that is to say, in November, 1869,
a suit by the Territory of New Mexico, on the relation of
this Griffin, was brought in the District Court for the county
of Santa F6, against Beall as principal and Staab and the
others, his sureties, upon the administration bond which he
and they had given on his appointment.

Dec. 1872.]

BEALL V. NEW MEXICO.
Statement of the case.

The breaches of the bond assigned in the declaration
were, in substance, that Hinckley's interest in the copartnership referred to, at the time of his death, was worth $60,000;
that the effects of the firm consisted of merchandise, real
estate, mines, and credits; and that Beall unlawfully and by
verbal agreement disposed of the same for $46,500 to Wardu
well and Blake, the surviving partners, thereby allowing the
interest of the deceased to remain in their possession, and
by them (and Beall) to be converted to their own use, and
that he' neglected to pay over and account for the same; also,
generally, that through his want of attention and neglect
assets of the estate to the amount of $60,000 were wholly
lost, wasted, and dissipated.
The ese having come on to be tried before a jury, Griffin,
the administrator de bonis non, was examined as a witness for
his own side of the case. He said:
On examination in chief"I had frequent conversations with Beall. I asked him why
he had not taken some security; I told him I thought it was
not safe; asked him if he had any note for the amount; he said
he had not; all he had was in the inventory; when he sold the
property, he supposed they would pay for it. After my appointment Beall delivered to me a paper [produced], purporting to
be an abstract from the books of Hinckley, Blake, and Wardwell, showing the condition of the account of Hinckley with the
firm, and said it was a true statement."
[The paper, which was a debit and credit account containing many items on both sides and ending in a balance of
$46,588.60, was read to the jury.]
On cross-examination, the witness, being asked by the defendant's counsel if Beall had ever told him that he had sold
linckley's interest to Blake and Wardwell, answered:
"I don't recollect that he ever told me so; I inferred so from
33eall's conversations, who treated it as a sale."
The judge charged the jury as follows:
"On the part of the plaintiff it is contended that Beall, as administrator of Hinckley, deceased, sold the interest of Hinck.

BEALL V. NEW MExIco.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
ley's estate in the property and effects of Hinckley, Blake, and
Wardwell to Blake and Wardwell, the surviving partners of the
firm, for the sim of $46,538.60, on credit, without taking any
security for the same. In the opinion of the court, the statements of the inventory filed by Beall in the probate court, which
are evidence in the cause, and the evidence of Elkins, establishes
the fact of such sale. By selling this property on credit, Beall
becomes personally liable in law to the estate for the amount
for which the property was sold; and if the jury, from the evidence, arrive at the same conclusion with the court, they should
find for the plaintiff, and assess his damages at $41,556, with
interest at 6 per cent., such interest to commence six months
after the inventory was filed, January 10th, 1867."
Under this charge the jury rendered a verdict in favor of
the plaintiff, and assessed the damages at $48,000, upon
which verdict judgment was entered. An appeal was taken
to the Supreme Court of the Territory. An appeal bond
was given, conditioned that the appellants should perform
the judgment of the court, and pay the damages and costs
that might be adjudged against them upon their said appeal.
There is a provision in the Revised Statutes of _New Mexico*
which reads as follows:
"In case of appeal in civil suits, if the judgment by the appellate court be against the appellant, it shall be rendered against
him and his securities on the appeal bond."
The 7th section of the organic act of the Territory,t provides"1That the legislative power of the Territory shall extend to
all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with the Constitution of the United States and the provisions of this act.
All the laws passed by the Legislative Assembly and governor
shall be submitted to the Congress of the United States, and if
disapproved shall be null and of no effect."
There was no evidence that this law had ever been disapproved.
In pursuance of it, when the judgment was affirmed by
* Section 5, page 290.

f Brightly's Digest, p. 694.

Dec. 1872.]

BEALL V. NEW MEXICO.
Opinion of the court.

the Supreme Court of the Territory, judgment was rendered
against the appellants and the sureties upon the appeal bond.
The latter judgment was brought to this court by writ of
error; the court being called upon to review as well certain
errors which were alleged to affect the action itself, as others
which were assigned upon a bill of exceptions taken at the
trial of the cause.
The errors assigned were1st. That judgment was entered by the Supreme Court
against the sureties of the appeal bond as well as against the
appellants below.
2d. That an administrator de bonis non cannot maintain
suit on the original administrator's bond.
3d. Other objections, as that the late administrator, Beall,
had not been called to account in the probate court, and no
decree had been passed against him, and that no order of the
probate court was obtained for leave to prosecute the bond.
Mr. T. M. a-arts,for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. "W.W.
McFarlandand L. P. Poland, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The first error assigned is, that judgment was entered by
the Supreme Court against the sureties of the appeal bond
as well as against the appellants below. This point depends
on the question whether the statute of the Territory authorizing such a judgment is a valid one or not. As the legislative power of the Territory, by the organic act, extends to
all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with the Constitution of the United States, it would seem to extend to-such
a case as this. A party who enters his name as surety on an
appeal bond does it with a full knowledge of the responsibilities incurred. In view of the law relating to the subject
it is equivalent to a consent that judgment shall be entered
up against him if the appellant fails to sustain his appeal.
If judgment may thus be entered on a recognizance, and
against stipulators in admiralty, we see no reason in the
nature of things, or in the provisions of the Constiuation,

BEALL

v.

NEW MEXICO.

[SuD. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

why this effect should not be given to appeal bonds in other
actions, if the legislature deems it expedient. No fundamental constitutional principle is involved; no fact is to be
ascertained for the purpose of rendering the sureties liable,
which is not apparent in the record itself; no object (except
mere delay) can be subserved by compelling the appellees to
bring a separate action on the appeal bond.
The next point made is a more serious one, to wit, that
an administrator de bonis non cannot maintain suit on the
original administrator's bond. It is true the action is brought
in the name of the Territory of New Mexico, to which the
bond was given, and is so far correct; but it is expressly
brought "for the use and benefit of William W. Griffin, administrator de bonis non," and the whole frame of the petition
is conceived on the theory that the duty of Beall to respond
for defaults and devastavits in administration is owed to the
administrator de bonis non. This does not seem to be the
law as understood in England or in the States which derive
their principles of jurisprudence from England, although in
some States statutes have been passed making it the duty of
an administrator who has been displaced, or of the representatives of one who has deceased, to account to the administrator de bonis non.* By the English law, as administered
in the ecclesiastical courts, the administrator who is displaced, or the representatives of a deceased administrator or
executor intestate, are required to account directly to the
persons beneficially interested in the estate, distributees,
next of kin, or creditors; and the accounting may be made
or enforced in the probate court, which is the proper court
to supervise the conduct of administrators and executors.t
* Williams on Executors, 443, note (1); do., 783, note (1), 4th American

edition; Wernick's Administrator v. McMurdo, 5 Randolph, 61; Hagthorp
v. Hook, 1 Gill & Johnson, 270; Bank of Pen. v. Haldeman, 1 Penrose &
Watts, 161 ; Kendall v. Lee, 2 Id. 482; Drenkle v. Sharman, 9 Watts, 48.5;
Weld v. :McClure, lb. 495; Small's Estate, 5 Barr, 258; Carter v. Trueman,

7 Id. 320; Adams v. Johnson, 7 Blackford, 529; 2 Redfield's Law of Wills,
91 and note.
t lb.

Dec. 1872.]

BEALL V. NEW MEXICO.
Opinion of the court.

To the administrator de bonis non is committed only the administration of the goods, chattels, and credits of the deceased which have not been administered. He is entitled
to all the goods and personal estate which remain in specie.
Money received by the former executor or administrator, in
his character as such, and kept by itself, will be so regarded;
but, if mixed with the administrator's own money it is considered as converted, or, technically speaking, "administered." I And all assets of the testator or intestate in the
hands of third persons at the death of an administrator or
executor intestate belong to the administrator de bonis non.*
Of course debts and choses in action not reduced to possession belong to this category. In this case the claim of
Hinckley's estate against his surviving partners is of this
character. If anything can be realized therefrom by the
prosecution of those partners, it is the duty of the administrator de bonis non to prosecute them, as much as it was his
predecessor's duty to do so, before his discharge. But, for
the delinquency of the former administrator in not prosecuting, he is responsible to the creditors, legatees, and distributees directly, and not to the administrator de bonis non.
This is the result of the authorities referred to. And it follows that, as the administrator de bonis non has no claim
against the former administrator on this ground, he cannot
prosecute for it on the administration bond. It is said in
Williams on Executors (referring to 1 Haggard's Ecclesiastical Reports, 189), that "if the original administrator be
dead, and administration de bonis non has been obtained,
such administrator may sue the executors of the deceased
administrator at law on the administration bond, in the
name of the ordinary; and the court will order the bond
' to be attended with,' in the common-law court, and produced at the hearing of the cause."t The authority referred
to was the case of "The Goods of .Hall," in which the first
administrator died without having distributed the assets in
* 1

Williams on Executors, 781, 4th American edition.

t Vol. i, p. 444, 4th American edition; p. 514, 6th English edition.

BEALL V.

NEW

MEXICO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

his hands, and leaving a considerable balance of the estate
in the hands of his bankers. The administrator de bonis non
having applied to the executors of the deceased administrator for his balance, and payment beinig refused, he commenced the action on the former administrator's bond, and
the prerogative court sanctioned the proceeding. But this
case was undoubtedly founded on the theory that the money
in bank was a part of the original intestate's estate in specie,
and, as such, that the administrator de bonis non was entitled
to it. If specific effects of the estate remain in the hands of
a discharged administrator or executor, or in the hands of
his representatives, of course, the administrator de bonis non
is entitled to receive them. And, if they are refused, he
will be the proper person to institute suit on the bond to
recover the amount. But this is perfectly consistent with
the doctrine above expressed, that for delinquencies and devastavits be cannot sue his predecessor or his predecessor's
representatives, either directly or on their administration
bond.
We have been unable to find anything in the local laws
or statutes 6f New Mexico establishing a different rule on
this subject from that which prevails in States governed by
the common law. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed for this ground alone, without reference to other
errors assigned.
Other objections to the validity of the action are raisedas that the late administrator, Beall, has not been called to
account in the probate court, and no decree has been passed
against him, and that no order of the probate court was obtained for leave to prosecute the bond. Many authorities
show that these preliminaries are necessary to sustain the
action. They will be found generally collected in the text
and notes of Williams on Executors, p. i, book v, c. iv,
pp. 444-448, 4th American edition. Chief Justice Redfield
says: "The ordinary bond for faithful administration is not
intended to transfer the jurisdiction of questions connected
with such administration from the appropriate and exclusive

Dee. 1872.]

BEALL v. NIEw MExIco.
Opinion of the court.

sphere of the probate courts to that of the common-law
courts. But these bonds are designed to secure the enforcement of the decrees of the probate court, after they are rendered against the executor or administrator, whereby his
breach of duty is established in the proper forum."* The
bond is taken by the probate court, and is subject to its control, and the money which may be recovered thereon is ordinarily to be paid into said court for distribution as assets
of the estate, unless recovered to satisfy a particular judgment or decree.t These considerations seem to demonstrate
the propriety of requiring the order of the probate court for
prosecuting the bond.
Were not these considerations amply sufficient to decide
the case, we should still be of opinion that the view taken
by the court below on the trial, as to the nature and consequences of Beall's settlement with Hinckley's surviving
.partners, was very questionable, and calculated to mislead
the jury. Beall's account of this settlement, as contained
in his inventory of the estate filed soon after the testator's
death, was as follows:
"The property, rights, and credits of the said deceased,
so far as the undersigned, executor, has been able to obtain
a knowledge thereof, were, at the time of his decease, as
follows:
"The firm or partnership of which he was a member.with
Blake and Wardwell, at Fort Craig and other places in
this Territory, were owing the said deceased the sum of
$46,538.60. The undersigned, being satisfied that the sum
stated is correct, has agreed to receive of the said Blake and
Wardwell, in full discharge of the capital and profits of the
said deceased, the aforesaid sum. The said Blake and
Wardwell have agreed to pay the said sum as soon as they
can arrange their affairs to do so, and within a reasonable
time. The undersigned is satisfied that the said arrange* 2 Redfield's Law of Wills, 92.
j See 1 Williams on Executors, 446, 4th American edition.

MITCHELL V. HAWLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

ment is the best he could make for the interest of the
estate, and that the payment will be made in due time."
The judge on the trial seemed to treat this statement as a
clear admission of a sale; whereas in our judgment it was
equally consistent with a mere liquidation of accounts; and
the witness, Elkins, who was called to testify as to Beall's

conversations, was obliged to admit that Beall had never
told him that it was a sale, but that be, the witness, only inferred that it was such. The testimony of this witness, and
the inventory and accounts of the executor being all the
material evidence on the subject, ought to have been left to
the jury, as well as the evidence relating to the executor's
negligence.
Regarding the transaction as clearly a sale, the judge instructed thejury that the administrator had rendered himself
liable for the whole claim by not taking security for its payment; whereas, if it was merely a liquidation of the accounts
he would only be liable for negligence (if under the circumstances of the case he was guilty of negligence) in enforcing
the claims of the estate against the surviving partners.
However, the errors which lie at the foundation of the
action preclude further trial, and require that the judgment
should be unconditionally REVERSED, with directions to
DIsmISs

MITCHELL

v.

THE PETITION.

HAWLEY.

a patentee of certain machines, whose original patent had still between six
and seven years to run, conveyed to another person the "1right to make

and use and to license to others the right to make and use four of the
machines 7,in two States "during

the remainder of the original term

of the letters-patent, provided, that the said grantee shall not in any way
or form dispose of, sell, or grant any license to use the said machines
beyond the said term." The patent having, towards the expiration of the
original term, been extended for seven years, held, that an injunction
by a grantee of the extended term would lay to restrain the use of the
four machines, they being in use after the term of the original patent
had expired.

