Dec. 1872. ]

MAHAN V. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

MAHAN V. UNITED STATES.
1. Under article 4 of chapter xliv of the Revised Code of Ifississippi, which
enacts,
"That no contract for the sale of any personal property. &c., shall be allowed
to be good and valid except the buyer shall receive part of the personal property
or shall actually pay or secure the purchase-money, or part thereof, or unless
some note or memorandum in writing of the bargain be made and signed by the
party to be charged by such contract orhis agent thereunto lawfully authorized,"
a parol agreement for the sale of cotton in payment of a mortgage debt,
cannot be sustained, where, though the price of the cotton per pound
was fixed, the number of pounds was not definitely ascertained, nor any
payment was indorsed on the mortgage, nor any receipt given, nor any
memorandum in writing made, nor any present consideration paid, nor
any change of possession effected, nor any delivery, either actual or
symbolic, made.
2. Such a transaction would, from want of delivery, not be good as a gift
inter vivos.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims; the case as found by
that court, from the evidence, being thus:
One Mitchell, of Mississippi, being indebted to his stepdaughter, of whose estate he bad been the guardian, mortgaged, with his wife (the mother of the step-daughter mentioned), a life estate which the wife had in a valuable cotton
farm in Mississippi, near the river of that name; and soon
afterwards died. Mrs. Mitchell, his widow, became administratrix of his estate. In 1861 the rebellion broke out.
There were at this time one hundred and sixteen bales of
cotton on the farm; and the war being flagrant in Mississippi, the Confederate general ordered all cotton near the
river, under penalty of being burnt, to be removed from it,
in order to prevent its capture by the forces of the United
States.
In compliance with this order, Mrs. Mitchell removed the
cotton to Kingston, near Natchez, where it was stacked and
covered. "After the cotton had been thus removed to
Kingston, but before the capture of Natchez by the United
States forces, and before the passage of the Abandoned and
Captured Property Act, a parol agreement was made be-

MAIAN

V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

tween Mrs. Mitchell and her daughter, now like herself a
widow, to the effect that the latter should take the cotton
as a payment upon the mortgage before described. The
price was fixed at twenty cents per pound, but the number
of pounds was not definitely ascertained, neither was any
payment indorsed upon the mortgage, nor any receipt given,
nor any memorandum in writing made, nor any present consideration paid. Neither did any change of possession take
place, nor was there any delivery, actual or symbolic. The
cotton remained at Kingston until its seizure by the military
forces of the United States, immediately upon which the
daughter asserted that she was the owner, and sought to
procure its release."
Not succeeding in this, and the cotton being sold, and the
Captured and Abandoned Property Act being passed, which
allowed loyal owners of" property captured in the South and
so disposed of, to apply to the Court of Claims for the proceeds, the daughter (now re-married to one Mahan) filed
with her husband a petition in the court just named, to have
the money which, on sale of it, the cotton had brought.
The Court of Claims said:
"The party relies upon a purchase and sale at which, so fat
as the evidence shows, she paid no money, relinquished no
rights, released no debt, assumed no responsibility, and acquired
no possession. The intent of the parties was not evidenced by the
payment of the purchase-money, nor by the ascertainment of
the price, nor by a receipt upon the mortgage, nor by a written
memorandum between the parties, nor by any formal or decisive declaration before witnesses, nor by the delivery of the
thing sold. The facts do not, in law, establish a sale and delivery, and the evidence to prove the ownership of the captured
property fails."
The court accordingly dismissed the petition, and from
that dismissal this appeal came.
Mr. R. 11. Corwine, for the appellant:
I confess myself embarrassed at the very outset in thediscussion of the ownership of the cotton when captured.

Dec. 1872.]

MAHAN V.

UNITED STATES.

Argument for the appellant.

The testimony is clear and direct, even as stated by the court
below in its findings, and free from any doubt. And yet
that court find that what was done did not amount to such
a sale as would pass the title. [The counsel then went into
an examination of the findings.]
But on the case as found it cannot be doubted that, as between the mother and daughter, there was a good contract
of sale. The price was fixed, the number of bales (116)
ascertained, and the precise location of the cotton understood between the parties. It was that particular lot o,
cotton which was stored at Kingston, and distinctly markejl
and piled up there. This was enough to authorize the
daughter to take possession and control the cotton as against
the mother; and, if possession had been refused, she could
have filed her bill to compel a specific performance. But
the parties went a step further. It was agreed that the
cotton should be taken as part payment on the mortgage.
Thus a price was fixed, and the mode of payment satisfactory to the parties provided. Undoubtedly the minds of the
parties met; the mother could have compelled the daughter
to take the cotton and give the credit as stipulated.
Neither at common law nor by the statute of frauds of
England or Mississippi, was it necessary that the evidence
of sale should be in writing. Story,* in commenting on the
English statute, states the rule with respect to agreements
for the sale of personal property to be, that where it is to be
performed within one year it need not be in writing. The
statute of Mississippi (Howard and Hutchinson's Compilation of Mississippi Laws, p. 370, ยง 1) re-enacts the English
statute, and, in so far as the sale of personal property is
concerned, where the agreement is to be performed within
one year, the language is the same and so is the law.
But if this transaction is held not to be such a sale as
passed the title absolutely to Mrs. Mahan, it must be held to
be a gift inter vivos. The learned Dr. Bouvier in his Law
Dictionaryt states the rule to be, that such a gift, when
* On Sales,

VOL. xvI.

258.

f Volume 1, page 561.

10

MAHAN V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

completed by delivery, passes the title to the thing, so that
it cannot be recovered back by the giver; and such is no
doubt the rule.
Mr. G. R. Williams, Atorney-General, and Mr. C. 1H. Bill,
contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The sole question in the case is, whether the appellant
was the owner of the cotton at the time of its seizure by the
agents of the United States, and this must be decided as a
matter of law on the finding of facts made by the Court of
Claims, notwithstanding the frequent reference by the counsel of the appellant to the view which he takes of the evidence given in that court.
It is strongly urged by the counsel that, by the common
law, the facts as found by the court, constituted a valid sale
of the property, and that, as there was no statute of frauds
in force in the State of Mississippi requiring delivery or a
written memorandum to make a sale of personal property
valid, the parol agreement set out in this finding constituted a
valid sale. Whether this would be so in the absence of such
a statute as most of the States have on that subject, might
admit of serious debate.
But, while there is no such provision in the authorized
publication of the statutes of Mississippi of 1840 by Howard
and Hutchinson, to which we have been referred, we find
in the Revised Code of Mississippi of 1857, which, from our
own researches, we are bound to believe was the law in
force when this agreement was made, a very stringent provision on this subject in the statute of frauds and perjuries
of that code.
Article four of chapter forty-four* enacts that no contract
for the sale of any slaves, personal property, goods, wares,
and merchandise for the price of fifty dollars or upwards
shall be allowed to be good and valid, except the buyer
shall receive the slaves, or part of the personal property,
* Page 359.

Dec. 1872.]

CARLISLE V. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

goods, wares, and merchandise, or shall actually pay or
secure the purchase-money, or part thereof, or unless some
note oi memorandum in writing of the bargain be made and
signed by the party to be charged by such contract or his
agent thereunto lawfully authorized.
The finding of the Court of Claims negatives in the most
express terms the existence in the agreement, by which the
title of the cotton was supposed to be transferred, of each
and every one of the acts or conditions, some one of which
is by that statute made necessary to the validity of the contract.
To hold that an agreement which that statute declares
shall not be allowed to be good and valid was sufficient to
transfer the title of the property to the claimant, would be to
overrule the uniform construction of this or a similar clause
in all statutes of frauds by all the courts which have construed them.
The Court of Claims held that the agreement passed no
title, and we concur in their conclusion on that subject.
It is unnecessary to examine into the effect of the transaction as a gift inter vivos. The finding that there was no
delivery would be as fatal to such a gift as to the agreement
of sale. Besides there is nothing in the petition of the plaintiff, or in the findings of the Court of Claims, on which such
a gift could be considered as in the issue. The finding that
it was a parol contract of sale is directly opposed to the idea.
of a gift.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

CARLISLE V. UNITED STATES.
1. Aliens domiciled in the United States in 1862 were engaged in manufac.
turing saltpetre in Alabama, and in selling that article to the Confederate States, knowing that it was to be used by them in the manufacture
of gunpowder for the prosecution of the war of the rebellion; Held, that
they thus gave aid and comfort to the rebellion.
2. The doctrine of Hanauerv. Doane (12 Wallace, 342), that ,he who,
being bound by his allegiance to agovernment, sells goods to the agent

