452

KENICOTT V. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

it necessary to pursue the subject further. The demurrer
was properly sustained and the bill properly dismissed.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

]KENICOTT

v.

THE SUPERVISORS.

1. A legislative act chartering a railroad company and authorizing the construction of a railroad between certain points, authorized, by its 7th,
8th, and 9th sections, the company to borrow money, and authorized
also a county through which the road chiefly ran to issue its bonds and
provide for their payment by the sale of its swamp and overflowed landsA 10th section proceeded :
"Any county through which said road may run, and every county through
which any other railroadmay run with which this road may lejoined, connected,
or intersected, may, and are hereby authorizedand empowered to aid in the conother road with which it may so connect ; and
struction of the same, or of suchs

for this purpose the provisions of the seventh, eighth and ninth sections of this
act shall extend, include, and be applicableto every such county and every such

railroad."
Held, that this section did not require that the road to be aided should be
actually built before a county was authorized to mortgage its lands'
but, contrariwise, that the aid was intended to be given before the road
was built, and that the counties giving the aid were expected to take
the ordinary risk of the success of the undertaking in which they embarked their property.
2. Where another company was subsequently chartered to build a road, whose
course ran up to one terminus of the road of the company previously
chartered, and thence onwards completely through another county adjoining the county in which the former road lay, and the railroad company first chartered undertook the construction of the new road from
the terminus above mentioned onwards, completely through the other
and adjoining counties; held, that the authority to construct the connecting road, and the entering into a contract for its construction,
formed a "connection" within the meaning of the above-quoted 10th
section.
8. In a bill to foreclose a mortgage given to secure negotiable railroad bonds
with the bonds transferred to a bond fide holder for value, no other or
further defences are allowed as against the mortgage than would be allowed were the action brought in a court of law upon the bonds. Carpenler v. Longan (supra, 271) affirmed.

4. The 7th and 10th sections of the act of the Illinois legislature, of February, 1855, chartering the Mount Vernon Railroad Company, authorized

Dec. 1872.]

KENICOTT V. THE SUPERVISORS.

458,

Statement of the case.
(other things permitting) the mortgage of the swamp and overflowed
lands of Wayne County, Illinois, by the judges of the County Court.
5. A bonus is not a gift or gratuity, but a sum paid for services, or upon a consideration in addition to or in excess of what would ordinarily be given.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Illinois; the case being thus:
The Central Railroad of Illinois runs, in a large part of
its course, north and south through the State just named.
The great extent of its course, and the important places
through which it passes or to which it leads, made it a matter very desirable to the towns in adjoining districts on the
east and west of it to connect themselves by other railroads
with it. Among the towns on the east, and about eighteen
miles to the east of the road, was Mount Vernon, a place
-situate in Jefferson County, a county on the east of the road,
whose course runs parallel to the whole of the western line
,ofthe county. This town, moving early in the matter, the
legislature of Illinois, in February, 1855, chartered a company, called the Mount Vernon Railroad Company, whose
immediate purpose was, with the aid of a mortgage on certain lands in Jefferson County, known as the "swamp and
,overflowed lands," to build a road from Mount Vernon, in
Jefferson County aforesaid, to the Illinois Central. Such a
road, of course, would run west through the western part
tif Jefferson County, cross its western line, and connect soon
.fter with the desired trunk of the Illinois Central.
The charter, in its seventh,- eighth, and ninth sections,
reads thus:
"SECTION 7. The corporation may borrow such sums of money
as they deem advisable, and upon such terms as they may agree
for the carrying out of the objects of this act, and may provide
any security therefor they think best, by bond and. mortgage,
or otherwise.
"SECTION 8. The County Court of Jefferson County are hereby authorized and empowered to subscribe for such amount of
the capital stock of said company as they may think proper.
They may issue the bonds of the county, and provide for the
payment of the principal and interest thereof, by sale or mort-

"KENICOTT V.

THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. CL.

Statement of the case.

gage, one or both, of the swamp and overflowed lands of said county, and dispose of such bonds for money to pay, or in payment
of their subscription to said stock; all and each to be upon such
time, terms, and in such mode as they maydeem best; or they
may make such other disposition of said swamp and overflowed
lands in aid of the construction and maintenance of said railroad
as they deem best for the public interest of said county.
"SECTION 9. Before any disposition is made of said swamp
and overflowed lands, or any subscription to the stock of said
company, the said County Court may, at any regular or special
term of said court, order a special election to be held for the
purpose of taking the sense of the qualified voters of the county
thereupon-giving such notice thereof as they may deem proper
-and which shall be conducted, and returns made, canvassed,
and published in all respects as other county elections. The
County Court shall prepare a proposition or propositions of the,
mode or modes, one or more, containing a brief, clear, distinct
idea of the plan or plans proposed by them for aiding in constructing of said road; which said proposition shall be printed
at large as an election ticket, and the voters may express their
will on said proposition by writing ' Yea' and 'Nay' on a separate ticket. The proposition or plan having the highest number of votes shall be adopted by the County Court."
But in addition to the sections thus quoted followed
another and very important one in these words:
"SECTION 10. Any county through which said road may run,
and every county through which any other railroadmay run with
which this road may be joined;-connected, or intersected, may, and
are hereby authorized and empowered .to aid in the construction
of the same, or of such other road with which it may so connect;
and for this purpose the provisions of the seventh, eighth, and
ninth sections of this act shall extend, include, and be applicable
to every such county, and every such railroad."

So far as to Jefferson County; and this 10th section.
On the east again of Jefferson County, and, like it, having
"swamp and overflowed lands," and like it interested in gaining a connection with the great trunk of the Illinois Central,
was Wayne County; the west line of this county being about
eleven miles east of the town of Mount Vernon.

Dec.

1872.]

KENICOTT V. THE SUPERVISORS.
Statement of the case.

On the same day of February, 1855, when the charter
already mentioned was granted, a charter had been granted
to another company, named the Belleville and Fairfield
Railroad Company, whose purpose was the construction of
a road from Belleville (a place in Illinois near St. Louis, and
west of the Illinois Central), through Nashville (Illinois)
and Mount Vernon, to Fairfield, a place in Illinois nearly
east of Mount Vernon, and so finally to Louisville, Kentucky. This road, which ran from west to east, was chartered so as to run through both the counties of Jefferson and
Wayne, and by the terms of the 10th section of the Mount
Vernon road might "be joined, connected, or intersected"
with it.
This charter to the Belleville and Fairfield road being in
existence, the County Court of Wayne County, on the 13th
of March, 1856, made a deed of its swamp lands to one
Charles Wood, in trust for that company or any other company that would build a railroad through the county. This
deed recited that a connection had been made between the
Mount Vernon and the Belleville and Fairfield roads, by
which the latter would become a part of and elongation of
the former; that the power to appropriate the swamp lands
in Wayne County through which the said road was situated
was brought into operation; that a vote had been taken
in November, 1855, to appropriate and donate said lands
for the purpose of aiding in constructing the said road, and
that this power had been conferred by the 9th section of the
charter of the Mount Vernon company, and that in execution of such authority and power the deed was made by the
County Court. The deed contained a proviso, that if the
road should not be made in a certain time the land should
be reconveyed by Wood to the county.
An act of the Illinois legislature, passed February 14th,
1857, amendatory of the charter of this Belleville and Fairfield company, and extending its line of transit, changed the
name of the company to "The St. Louis and Louisville
Railroad Company." The proposed liHe of the road as thus
enlarged crossed the Illinois Central and was located directly

KENICOTT V. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

through five different counties, of which Wayne was one.
The act declared:
"SECTION 4. The vote heretofore taken in Wayne County to
donate the swamp lands to the Belleville and Fairfield Railroad
Company, &c., and the conveyance of said land by the County
Court of said county in trust for the use of the said railroad
company are, and the same are hereby declared to be legal and
valid.
"SECTION 5. Each county through which said railroad runs
may donate the swamp lands of such county to the St. Louis
and Louisville Railroad."

In this state of things the county of Wayne held an election in November, 1858, in which the question was thus proposed to the voters:
"For appropriating the swamp lands of Wayne County as a
bonus to any company for building a railroad through said
county.

"Against the same."
A majority of votes was cast in favor of the proposition,
and thereupon soon after this time two persons, named
Van Duser and Smith, entered into a contract with Wayne
County for building that part of the road of the Belleville
and Fairfield company (or, as it now was, the St. Louis and
Louisville company) lying between the east line of Wayne
County and Mount Vernon, thus running across the entire
width of Wayne County. This contract having been partially executed by Van Duser and Smith was assigned to the
Mount Vernon Railroad Company, in which they had become the chief stockholders, and that company undertook
the construction of this portion of the road.
The county of Jefferson entered into a like contract for
the construction of the Mount Vernon road, from Mount
rernon to the Illinois Central.
On the 20th of April, 1859, S. J. Wilson and T. M. Scott,
judges of the County Court of Wayne County, mortgaged
the whole, about 100,000 acres, of the swamp and overflowed
lands of the county to Isaac Seymour, of New York, in trust

Dec. 1872.]

KENICOTT v. THE SUPERVISORS.

457

Statement of the case.

to secure the payment of bonds to the amount of $800,000,
to be issued by the Mount Vernon Railroad Company. The
recitals of the mortgage ran thus:
" W]EREAS, The Congress of the United States duly passed
an act, approved September the 28th, A.D. 1850, entitled ' An
act to enable the State of Arkansas and other States to reclaim
the swamp lands within their limits,' and in pursuance thereof
the Secretary of the Interior of the United States caused a patent
to be issued to the State of Illinois for all the swamp and overflowed lands within its limits, to be situated under the direction
of the commissioners of the Land Office:
"And whereas, The legislature of the said State of Illinois
passed an act, approved by the governor of said State on the
22d of January, A.D. 1852, entitled 'An act to dispose of the
swamp and overflowed lands, and to pay the expenses of selecting and surveying the same,' which said act authorized the appropriation and disposal of said lands for such purposes as may
be deemed expedient by the court or county judges:
"And whereas, The legislature of the State of Illinois passed
an act, approved by the governor of said State on the 15th
of February, A.D. 1855, entitled 'An act to incorporate the
Mount Vernon Railroad Company,' whereby all such persons
and corporations as shall become stockholders under the provisions of the said act, and their successors, were duly incorporated into a body politic and corporate under the name of the
Mount Vernon Railroad Company, and the parties of the first
part were duly authorized and empowered to make such disposition of the swamp and overflowed lands within the said county
of Wayne, in aid of the construction and maintenance of the
said railroad, as they deem best for the public interest of said
county:
"And whereas, At a special term of the said County Court of
the county of Wayne, held on the 28th of September, A.D. 1855,
an order was duly made and entered by the same court, whereby
a special election was ordered and directed on the 5th of 1ovem.
ber, A.D. 1855, to be held for the purpose of taking the sense of
the qualified voters of the county upon the mortgaging that portion of the said overflowed and swamp lands hereinafter described, for the purpose of aiding in the construction and maintenance of the said the Mount Vernon Railroad; and the said

KENICOTT V. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

County Court did then and there order public notice of such
special election to be given by advertisements, in accordance
wil - the statute laws of said State of Illinois, which said notice
was given and published in conformity with the terms and provisions of said order; and the said County Court did prepare a
proposition containing a brief, clear, and distinct idea of the plan
proposed by them for aiding in constructing said road, and did
cause the said propositions to be duly printed at large as an
election ticket, and presented to the said qualified voters of said
county, to be used at such election, in the words and figures following, to wit:

" For appropriating the swamp lands of Wayne County as a bonus to any
company for building a railroad through said county."
1 Against the same."
"And the said special election was duly held, pursuant to
said notice, on the said 5th day of November, A.D. 1855, and
conducted in all things in confbrmity to the provisions of said
charter and the laws of the said State of Illinois, and the returns thereof made, canvassed, and published in all respects as
other county elections are required to be in and by the said
laws:
"And whereas, The said proposition or plan above stated received the highest number of votes, and a majority of all the
votes given at such election, and a majority of the qualified
voters of the said county of Wayne expressed their will by
writing and voting ' Yea.' upon the said several printed propositions or tickets cast by them at the said election; and whereas,
upon the returns of said special election being duly made, canvassed, and published as aforesaid, the County Court of the
county of Wayne did adopt the proposition or plan having the
highest number of votes as aforesaid, and did order and adjudge
and determine to execute a mortgage in conformity to such
proposition or plan, and to the provision of' this instrument, to
the parties of the second part as trustees upon the land hereinafter described, for the purpose of aiding in the construction
and maintenance of the said Mount Vernon Railroad, which
said order was duly made in open court on the 20th of April,
A.D. 1859:
"And whereas, By virtue of the said several acts and ,roceedings the parties of the first part have become endowed with the

Dec.

1872.]

KENICOTT V. THE SUPRVISoRS.
Statement of the case.

requisite power and authority to dispose of and mortgage the
said lands for the purpose of aiding the construction and maintenance of the railroad of the said Mount Vernon Railroad Company, and the said parties deem it best for the public interest
of the said county of Wayne that the lands hereinafter described
should be mortgaged to the party of the second part, trustee
and commissioner, duly appointed and selected by both the said
partiesof the first part and the said the Mount Vernon Railroad Company, upon the terms and conditions particularly set
forth :
"And whereas, The said the Mount Vernon Railroad Company
has deemed it advisable to provide for the issue and disposal,
now and hereafter, of its construction bonds, for the purpose of
raising funds, from time to time, for the construction and completion of the railroad, and for the equipment thereof, and the
expenses of organizing and operating the same, and thereby to
become indebted to divers persons, bodies politic or corporate,
who shall become holders of such construction bonds and obligations in the just and full sum in the aggregate of $800,000,
secured to be paid by their 400 construction bonds or obligations of and for $500 each, and by their 600 construction bonds
or obligations of and for $1000 each, to the extent of $800,000
A.D.
in the aggregate, to bear date on the first day of -,
1859, and be payable in fifteen years from the date thereof,
which will be in the year 1874, at the Bank of North America,
in the city of New York, with interest at the rate of 7 per
centum per annum, payable semi-annually at the Bank of North
America, in said city of New York, on the 1st day of May and
November, in each year, to be secured hereby; all which bonds
are to have warrants for the payments of the interest thereon
attached, and to be in the form following, the respective number and amounts thereof being omitted:
"1The Mount Vernon Railroad Company acknowledges itself to owe Isaac
Seymour or bearer $1000, which said company hereby promises to pay on

presentation of this bond hereof at the Bank of North America, in the city
of New York, on the first day of May, A.D. 1874, with interest thereon at
the rate of 7 per cent. per annum, semi-annually, on the first day of May
and November in each year, until.the said principal sum shall be paid on
presentation of the proper interest warrants hereto annexed at the said Bank
of North America.
" This bond is one of a series of 400, of $500 each, and 600 of $1000 each,
of like term and date, not exceeding in the whole the sum of $800,000, issued

IKENICOTT V.

THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.
and to be issued for the purpose of the construction and the completion of
the said railroad, and the expenses incident thereto. Full payment of the
principal and interest of the whole issue of these bonds is secured by a mortgage bearing even date herewith to the said Isaac Seymour, of the city of
New York, as trustee, of 100,000 acres of land in the county of Wayne, in
the State of Illinois, granted by the said State and county, for the purpose
of constructing and maintaining said railroad, and also by a mortgage to
said Isaac Seymour, as trustee of said railroad, its branches, and other real
and personal property of said company.
" In witness whereof the said the Mount Vernon Railroad Company has
caused this bond to be executed and attested in its behalf, by its president
and treasurer, and its interest warrants to be signed by its secretary, and its
inthe State of -, this
corporate seal to be hereto affixed at the -,
day of -,

A.D. 1859."

"Which said construction bonds or obligations are primarily
secured by this indenture, and the lands herein described, and
the avails thereof, are to constitute a primary fund for the payment of the principal and interest of the said bonds.
"Now, therefore, this indenture witnesseth: That the said
parties of the first part, in consideration of the premises and of
one dollar to them severally paid by the parties of the second
part at or before the ensealing and delivery of these presents,
the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, have granted, bargained, sold, remised, released, conveyed, and confirmed, and,
by these presents, do grant, bargain, sell, remise, release in full
of, convey, and confirm to the party of the second part, his successors, and the survivors of them, and the heirs and assigns of
such survivors, forever, all and singular the land and premises
situate and lying and being in the county of Wayne, and the
State of Illinois, bounded and described as follows, that is to say."
[Here followed a description by tracts of all the lands
mortgaged; these being the swamp and overflowed lands in
question.]
"To have and to hold all and singular the lands and premises
hereby granted or intended so to be, and each and every part
and parcel thereof, with the appurtenances, unto the said party
hereto of the second part, his successors and assigns, forever,
as joint tenants, and not as tenants in common, for the uses and
purposes in this indenture set forth and declared.
"And this indenture further witnesseth that the said parties
of the first part, for themselves and their successors do cove-

Dec. 1872.]

KENICOTT v. THE SUPERVISORS.

Statement of the case.
nant and agree that if default shall be made in the payment of
the interest upon the said construction bonds or obligations, so
that a sum equal to one year's interest of the whole amount of
the said construction bonds or obligations already issued and
secured by these presents, [?] or that if default shall be made in
the payment of the principal of said construction bonds or obligations, that then and from thenceforth it shall and may be lawful for the said parties of the second part to enter into and upon
and take possession of all and singular the lands and all the
premises included or intended to be included in this mortgage."
This mortgage was accompanied by a deed of trust of the
same date between the same parties, with recitals similar to
it, and equally in the interests of the bondholders. Both,
as appeared by an entry in the records of the County Court,
were thus recognized in that tribunal. The entry was thus:
APRIL SPECIAL TFRm, 1859.
"At a special term of the County Court of Wayne County,
began and held at the court-house in Fairfield, on the 20th day
of April, 1859. Present, Hon. S. J. Wilson, judge; T. M. Scott,
associate; J. W. Barnhill, clerk."
Order of County Court of Wayne County.
"And now, on this day, the court executed to Isaac Seymour,
of the city of New York, a deed of trust to certain swamp and
overflowed lands lying in said Wayne County. The conditions
and provisions of said trust deed will more fully appear by reference to said trust deed, which is entered of record in the recorder's office of said county in mortgage-book IB,' pages 330
to 341; and also executed a mortgage on the same lands to the
said Isaac Seymour, as collateral security, to enable the Mfount
Vernon Railroad Company to procure money to build a railroad
through Wayne, from the eastern boundary of said Wayne
County to Mount Vernon, in Jefferson County; and which mortgage is referred to and is recorded in the recorder's office of said
Wayne County, in mortgage-book 'B,' pages 341 to 359.
"And it is ordered by the court that S. J. Wilson be, and
he is hereby, appointed a commissioner to act as the attorney
of said Isaac Seymour, trustee as aforesaid, in the said county
of Wayne, State of Illinois."

KENICOTT V. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the county.

The Mount Vernon Railroad Company issued the bonds
such exactly as were described in the recitals above given of
the mortgage; and certain of them (to the extent of $73,000)
passed into the hands of one Kenicott and others, citizens
of Massachusetts. These holders of the bonds had paid
value for them before their maturity, without notice of any
defect or infirmity in the bonds or in the mortgage. The
interest being unpaid, they filed a bill in the court below
against the Board of Supervisors of Wayne County impleaded with the Mount Vernon Railroad Company, to foreclose the mortgage given as already mentioned by the county
just named.
In its answer, the defendant insisted that the Mount Vernon Railroad Company was not located in, did not run in
the county of Wayne, and had no authority or right to run
or locate its road through that county. It was denied that
there was any other railroad running through the county of
Wayne with which the Mount Vernon road was joined, or
connected, or intersected, and it was averred that it did not
then connect with any railroad in the county of Wayne.
Proofs were taken, and the bill was dismissed upon the
ground that the proofs failed to show that at the date of the
mortgage and deed of trust for securing the payment of the
bonds there was any line of railroad constructed, or authorized to be constructed, through the county of Wayne, with
which the Mount Vernon railroad was joined, connected, or
intersected. The plaintiffEs thereupon appealed to this court.
Mr. J. C. Robinson, for the county of Wayne, in support of the
judgment below, argued that the Mount Vernon railroad could
not under its charter run through Wayne County; that upon
the most liberal construction to be given to the tenth section
the power depended on the existence of one of two facts:
1st. That the Mount Vernon road may run through Wayne
County; oP.
2d. That some other railroad may run through that
county with which the Mount Vernon road "may be joined,
connected, or intersected."

Dec. 1872.]

KENICOTT

v. THE SUPERVISORS.

463

Argument for the county.

Now there was no proof of any consolidation of the roads;
, matter in Illinois confessedly to be done only in a way
prescribed by statute.* The case was sought, in fact, to be
rested on a sort of connection by contract of the Mount
Vernon road at Mount Vernon, with a railroad through
Wayne County, to be built by the effort of Wayne County,
from east to west, and so on to MountVernon. But no such
power can be got from any provision which is contained
in the Mount Vernon charter; and as to any proposition
that a county by virtue of its municipal organization possesses power to build a railroad, the idea is one which no
one in this day would advance. A county, as the law is now
settled to be, is created by the law-making power, a municipal organization for the purposes of government alone, and
sustains to the sovereign power the relation of a mere corporation, with only such powers as have been expressly
or result by necessary implication.
granted,
1Ifo doubt under the laws of Illinois a county
may sell
and convey its real estate. But neither under those laws
nor independently of them may a county make a gift, a pure
donation, of its property. The vote taken here was "for
appropriating the swamp lands of Wayne County as a bonus
to any company for building a railroad through said county."
Such a vote was a nullity. To give away, without any consideration, the property of the public is beyond the power
of any county court, or even of the. people themselves.t
By the eighth section of the charter of the Mount Vernon
road, the County Court is required "to preparea proposition

orpropositions OF THE MODE OR MODES, one or more, containing a
brief,clear, distinct idea OF THE PLAN Oa PLANS proposed by them
for aidingin constructing of SAID ROAD."
The proposition submitted was this:
"For appropriating the swamp lands of Wayne County as a
* Act of 28th February, 1844; Session Laws of 1854, p. 9; Gross's Statutes, p. 537, ch. 86a.
j- Whiting v. Sheboygan Railroad Co., 25 Wisconsin, 167; The People
v. The Township Board of Salem, 9 American Law Register, new series
(August, 1870), p. 487.

K3:ENICOTT V.

THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

bonus to any company for building a railroad through said
county."

Does this proposition embrace a "brief, clear, distinct
idea" of a "plan" to aid in the construction of the Mount
Vernon Railroad, whose nearest point to Wayne County is
eleven miles west of its most western boundary, and by
mortgaging these lands to secure the payment of the bonds to be
issued by that company? No one will say it does.
As to the recitals in the mortgage which we suppose
will be set up by way of estoppel, it is enough to say that
these complainants are entire strangers to that instrument,
and can take no benefit from it; there is no proof in the
record that they ever saw or heard of it, and of course their
action could not have been at all influenced by it. Under
such facts there can be no application of the law of estoppel,
as it does not operate as to strangers.*
Neither does the doctrine of estoppel apply to a grantor
acting officially as a public agent or trustee.t
lr. W. B. Scates, contra, for the bondholders.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The following propositions may be considered as settled
in this court.
1. If an election or other fact is required to authorize the
issue of the bonds of a municipal corporation, and if the result of that election, or the existence of that fact, is by law
to be ascertained and declared by any judge, officer, or tribunal, and that judge, officer, or tribunal, on behalf of the
corporation, executes, or issues the bonds, with a recital that
the election has been held, or that the fact exists, or has
taken place, this will be sufficient evidence of the fact to all
bonal fide holders of the bonds.t
2. If there be lawful authority for the municipality to issue
* Carver v. Jackson, 4 Peters, 83.

t Fairtitle v. Gilbert, 2 Term, 169; Coke Littleton, 868, b.
I Authorities, infra.

Dec. 1872.]

KENICOTT v. THE SUPERVISORS.

465

Opinion of the court.

its bonds, the omission of formalities and ceremonies, or the
existence of fraud on the part of the agents of the municipality issuing the bonds, cannot be urged against a bondfide
holder seeking to enforce them.*
8. There must, however, be an original authority, bystatute, to the municipality to issue the bonds. Municipal
corporations have not the power, except through the special
authority of the legislature, to issue corporate bonds which
will bind their towns; neither have they the power to sell or
mortgage the lands belonging to such towns without specia.
authority.t
The alleged absence of such authority is the basis of th a
defence to the mortgage sought to be foreclosed in the prefi.
ent action. Four several and distinct grounds on which
such power is based are urged by the plaintiffs. But one of
these will be examined. The court is satisfied with the authority to be found in the 10th section of the act to incorporate the Mount Vernon Railroad Company. An examination of the others is not necessary.
The town of Mount Vernon is situated in Jefferson County,
and some 18 miles easterly of the Illinois Central Railroad.
This road passes within a short distance of the westerly
line of said county, and nearly parallel with it. Wayne
County is still east of Jefferson County, the whole of the
latter county lying between Wayne and the Illinois Central
road. In the month of February, 1855, the legislature of
Illinois passed an act to incorporate the Mount Vernon Railroad Company, for the purpose of building a railroad from
Mount Vernon to the Illinois Central Railroad, or to its Chicago branch. The 7th section of the act provided that the
company might borrow money and secure the same by bond,
or mortgage. By the 8th section it was enacted that the
county of Jefferson might issue its bonds and provide for the
payment thereof by the sale or mortgage of its swamp or
Grand Chute v. Winegar, 15 Wallace, 355; Commissioners of-Knox Co.
v. Aspinwall, 21 Howard, 539; Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wallace, 203; ]Ioran
v. Miami County, 2 Black, 722.
- Marsh v. Fulton County, 10 Wallace, 676.
30
VOL. XVI.

XENICOTT V.

THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

overflowed lands, or that they might make such other disposition of the lands in aid of the construction and maintenance
of the railroad as they deemed best for the public interests
of the county.
The 9th section provided that the question of aiding
the railroad, and of the mode in which such aid should be
given, should be submitted to the decision of the voters of
the county.
The 10th section was in the following words:
"Any county through which said road may run, and every
county through which any other railroadmay run, with which
this road may be joined, connected, or intersected, may, and are
hereby authorized and empowered to aid in the construction of
the same or of such other road with which it may so connect;
and for this purpose the provisions of the seventh, eighth,
und ninth sections of this act shall extend, include, and be apylicable to every such county and every such railroad."
The provisions of the 7th, 8th, and 9th sections of the
charter of the Mount Vernon Railroad Company were thus
-made applicable to any other county than that of Jefferson,
through which that road should run, or through which any
other railroad should run, which might join, intersect, or
connect with the Mount Vernon road. Such other county
-vas expressly authorized to aid in the construction of the
Mount Vernon road, or of such other road with which it
night so connect.
No reasonable construction of this act will require that
the road to be aided should be actually built before the
county was authorized to give it aid. That theory would
-no doubt add greatly to the security of the county, and
-would relieve it from many of the perplexing questions
-which so commonly arise. If, however, the road were actually built, no aid would be needed in its construction.
The aid might, in that event, be useful to its stockholders,
or might relieve it from embarrassments, but a- road which
is built can neither need nor receive aid in! its construction.
That is a fact accomplished. The language of this act ex
pressly authorizes the swamp or overflowed lands to be used

Dec. 1872.]

KENICOTT

v. THE SUPERVISORS.

467

Opinion of the court.

by the counties in aid of the construction of the road, and
it seems to be quite plain that the aid was intended to be
given before the road was built, and that the counties were
expected to take the ordinary risk of the success of the undertaking in which they embarked their property.
The county of Wayne held an election in November,
1858, and voted that these lands should be applied in aid
of any company that would build a railroad through the
county. Soon after this time Van Duser & Smith enteredinto a contract with Wayne County for building that part
of the road of the Belleville and Fairfield Company lying
'between the east line of Wayne County and MountVernon,
thus running across the entire width of Wayne County.,
This contract was assigned to the Mount Vernon Railroad
Company, who undertook the construction of this portion
of the road.
The county of Jefferson entered into a like contract for
the construction of the Mount Vernon road, from Mount
Vernon to the Illinois Ceitral.
It was for the purpose of aiding in the construction of
the road thus undertaken to be built by the Mount Vernon,
Railroad Company from the east line of Wayne County to'
Mount Vernon, the charter of that company also requiring
its road to be built from' Mount'Vernon to the Illinois Central, that the bonds in question were issued. They were
sold under the authority of the county of Wayne, by its'
agents, and the proceeds were applied as was intended bythe county. The Belleville'and Fairfield Railroad Company,
afterwards changed to the St. Louis and Louisville Railroad:
Company, was chartered for the construction of a railroad
from St. Louis, on the Mississippi, to Mount Carmel, on the
Wabash River. Its proposed line crossed the Illinois Central, and was located directly through five different counties,
among which was the county of Wayne.. It was that portion of the line of this road through the county of Wayne "
that was located and surveyed by the Mount Vernon Rail-,
road Company and of which the construction was undertaken
by that company, as the assignee of Van Duser & Smith.

468

KENNCOTT v. THE

SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Some portion of the work had then been done. This
brought the county of Wayne within the terms of the 10th
section already quoted, and authorized its action in the
issue of bonds to aid in its construction.
These were existing contracts, under which the contracting parties were taking efficient measures for the construction of the road. Those contracting parties could make no
objection to the power of the counties so to contract. The
contracts were valid and obligatory against them, and would
be effectual, if carried out, to make the railroad connections
needed by the county.
The authority to construct the connecting road, and the
entering into a contract for its construction, formed a connection within the meaning of the 10th section.
Such was also the opinion and the assertion of the county
of Wayne, when, in iNovember, 1856, it conveyed these
lands to Charles Wood, in trust for certain railroads that
should build a road through that county.
The deed to Wood recites that a connection had been
made between the Mount Vernon road and the others mentioned, that a vote had been taken in the county of Wayne
authorizing that deed, and that it was made in pursuance
thereof. This deed was recognized and confirmed by the
legislature, and expressly declared to be valid in the passage of the act of February 14th, 1857, to amend the charter
of the Belleville and Fairfield Railroad Company. The lands
were afterwards reconveyed to the county by Mr. Wood.
Holding that there was valid power for the giving of the
mortgage in question by the county of Wayne under the
10th section of the Mount Vernon charter, and that there
was in fact and in law a sufficient connection with other
roads, we do not deem it necessary either to examine the
other alleged sources of authority for the execution of the
mortgage, or the alleged acts of the county in confirmation
of it. Under the circumstances stated, we are also of the
opinion that there was a sufficient submission of the question to the voters of the county, and that as against bon&
fide holders for value the question is not an open one. It

Dec. 1872.]

KENICOTT V.

TkE

SUPERVISORS.

469

Opinion of the court.

has been decided at the present term of this court, that
where a note secured by a mortgage is transferred to a bona
fide holder for value before maturity, and a bill is filed to
foreclose the mortgage, no other or further defences are
allowed as against the mortgage than would be allowed
were the action brought in a court of law upon the note.*
In this action to foreclose the mortgage, the case stands
in this respect as it would stand had the present suit been
broight directly upon the bonds, and without reference to
the mortgage.
The execution of the deed and mortgage by Wilson and
Scott, the judges of the county court of Wayne County, and
on behalf of the county, was a sufficient execution by the
county. In the mortgage and trust deed all the proceed,ings to authorize a conveyance by the county are recitedthe title of the swamp lands in the county through an act
of Congress; the authority of the State to dispose of the
same by the courts or county judges; the passage of the act
incorporating the Mount Vernon Railroad Company-and
that the parties of the first part were duly authorized on behalf of the county to make disposition of the land in aid of
the construction of the railroad; that the question had been
referred to and passed upon by the voters of the county;
i nat, by virtue of all the proceedings recited, the said judges,
..arties of the first part, had become endowed with power to
lispose of the lands; therefore they conveyed, as set forth.
]rhis conveyance was, on the 20th of April, 1859, by an order
that day entered in its minutes, recognized and confirmed
as the act of the county of Wayne by its authorized agents,
and by which the lands were mortgaged and conveyed. The
7th section of the Mount Vernon Railroad act, above referred
to, vests the power to dispose of these lands in the courty
court. This body must act by agents, and none can be more
suitable and appropriate than the judges of the court. By
the 2d section of the act to dispose of swamp and overflowed
lands, passed January 22d, 1852, it is provided that in the
Carpenter v. Longan, supra,p. 271.

"ENICOTT

V. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cases in the 1st section mentioned, the deed of conveyance
shall be made by the judges of the county court as such,
and countersigned by the clerk with his official seal. In
reference to sales at auction, it is provided by the 11th section that a conveyance shall be executed by "the court,
signed in their official capacity," and countersigned by the
clerk. The signature of the clerk is nowhere declared to
be an absolute prerequisite. In effect this was a conveyance
on behalf of the county, by their agents for that purpose
duly appointed. By the 7th section of the Mount Vernon
charter the county court was authorized to sell or mortgage
the lands, or to make such other disposition of them "as
they may deem best for the public interest." No mode was
pointed out in which a conveyance should be made. No
particular signature was made a condition to the validity
of the conveyance. There is no ground for the objection
to the form here adopted, viz.: by a deed of trust and mortgage, signed by the judges of the county court. In form
and in substance the deed was well executed, and valid as
the deed of the county.
The objection to the word "bonus" in the proposition
submitted to the voters of Wayne County is not valid. This
submission, in connection with the general subject of a failure to comply with the requisites prescribed by the statute,
has been already discussed. Upon its individual merits we
are also of the opinion that the objection is not valid. It is
a verbal criticism merely-an objection to the words and
not to the substance of the submission. A proposition was
submitted to the voters, of which the affirmative was in these
words: "For appropriating the swamp lands of Wayne as a
bonus to any company for building a railroad through said
county." It is said that the word "bonus" condemns the
submission; that this word means a gratuity, a voluntary
donation, a gift, and that a town or county cannot, although
it have the direct authority of the legislature, give away its
property. When this question is properly before us it will
be disposed of. It does not, however, arise in this case. In
the first place, if it be assumed that the word is correctly

Dec. 1872.]

MORGAN V. PARHAM.

Syllabus.
defined as a gift, or gratuity, that meaning is controlled and,
limited by the connection in which it is here used, to wit
that in consideration of it the company receiving the lands
will undertake to build a railroad through the county. Itis not simply a bonus, but a bonus to any company who
shall undertake the great task of building a railroad
through the county, a task which, it is loudly complained,
has not yet been performed by any one.
But, secondly, the meaning of the word bonus is not that
given to it by the objection. It is thus defined by Webster:
"A premium given for a loan or a charter or other privilege granted to- a company; as, the bank paid a bonus for
its charter; a sum paid in addition to a stated compensation."
It is not a gift or gratuity, but a sum paid for services, or
upon a consideration in addition to or in excess of that
which would ordinarily be given.
Upon the principles announced in the opening of this
opinion, the plaintiffs are entitled to a judgment for the
amount of the bonds held by them. If we are right in the
positions taken, there was indeed no real defence to the
bonds.
We think there was error in the decision of the case;
that the judgment must be
REVERSED, AND A NEW TRIAL HAD.

Mr. Justice MILLER and Mr. Justice FIELD dissented.
Mr. Justice DAVIS did not sit.

MORGAN V. PARHAM.
1, When a vessel is regularly registered in the port to which she belongs,
that is to say, "in the port nearest to which her owner, husband, or acting and managing owner usually resides" [registered, ex. gr., at New
York], the fact that she may be temporarily in a port of a State [as ex.
gr., Mobile, in Alabama], other than that where her home port is, and
engaged in lawful commerce-one of a daily line of steamers-between

