PEABODY V. STARK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ground that the test oath in question was one which it was
competent for the State to exact as a war measure in time
of civil war.

PEABODY, COLLECTOR, V. STARK.
1. In the absence of a clear, common conviction on the part of all the
members of the court as to the meaning of a direction relating to distillers in one of the internal revenue acts, the court-not holding such
construction as in general obligatory on it-expressed itself content to
adopt, and did adopt accordingly, what was shown to have been the unvarying practical construction given to the direction by the office of the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue from the time that the act went into
effect; such construction being obviously fair to both the distiller and
the government.
2. Held accordingly, that under the 80 per cent. clause in the 20th section
of the act of July 20th, 1868, the distiller is not liable until a survey in
which the tax is assessed has been delivered to him as provided in the
10th section.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Middle District of
Tennessee.
Stark brought an action in the court just named against
Peabody, collector of internal revenue, to recover back as
illegal a tax. The tax complained of as illegal was a reassessment upon the plaintiff as a distiller, in which he was
assessed to the amount of 80 per cent. of the producing
capacity of his distillery (in pursuance of section 20 of the
Internal Revenue Act of July 20th, 1868),* though he had
not actually made that amount of spirits, and notwithstanding the fact that no copy of the survey of his distillery fixing
its producing capacity had been filed with him, or delivered
to him, as required by section 10 of that same act.
The section of the internal revenue law thus last referred
to requires assessors to make, or cause to be made, surveys
of all distilleries registered or intended to be registered, and
* 15 Stat. at Large, 129.

Dec. 1872.]

PEABODY V. STARK.
Argument for the government.

to estimate and determine their true producing capacity, a
written report whereof shall he made in triplicate, signed
by the assessor, one copy of which shall be furnished to the distiller, one retained by the assessor, and the other immediately transmitted to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
It also provides that the commissioner may at any time
order a resurvey, the report of which shall be executed in
triplicate and deposited as before provided.
On the trial the plaintiffs introduced evidence to shovthat 400 gallons of spirits not reported by them were lost b]
leakage, and by being burnt, &c.
The district attorney introduced evidence tending to shov
that, although the distillers were not furnished with the ce.
tified copy of either survey, yet they had actual notice ol
both.
The judge instructed the jury"That if a copy of the survey of the distillery was not delivered to the distillers according to the requirements of section
10 of said act, that they would not be bound by the survey, not.
withstanding they might in fact know what the results of it
were, and that in this event the government could only exact
the tax upon the actual amount of spirits produced, including
the 400 gallons destroyed, as aforesaid; to which ruling the
United States district attorney then and there excepted."
Mr. G. 1H. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. C. -H. Hill,
Assistant Attorney- General, in behalf of the Commissioner of Internal .Revenue, who on an affirmance of the judgment would
under existing statutes have to pay the amount of it:
The object in providing that the distiller shall have a copy
of the report sent to him is in order that if it is erroneous in
any respect he may call the attention of the assessor to it,
and, if need be, have the distillery resurveyed and the error
corrected. But it was never meant to be made a condition
essential in order to fix the rights of the government to the
80 per cent. duties given by section 20 of the act; or otherwise than as a matter directory. If the distiller have actual
notice, in any way, of the number of gallons at which the
VOL. xV.

16

PEABODY V. STARK.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

capacity of his distillery has been fixed by a survey, this is
enough. The giving him a copy of the report of the survey
is but one mode of giving him notice at what rate he has
been rated. The proof in this case tended to show that he
had actual notice of the result of both surveys, though no
copies of either were delivered to him.
Messrs. Blair, Dick, Shackelford, and -Helm, contra, contended that when a statute commands an act to be done in
a certain way, or upon certain terms, or gives a new proceeding, or prescribes the manner and form of this proceeding, the manner and form so prescribed by the statute are
not merely directory, but are an essential condition of a right
of recovery; and that nothing can dispense with the mandate of the statute.
They also produced a letter from Mr. Josiah Given, deputy commissioner in the office of Internal Revenue, in the
Treasury Department, dated July 31st, 1870, in reply to a
request of one of the above-named counsel for a copy of the
rulings of that office as to the date at which surveys of distilleries take effect. This letter stated"That under the 10th section of the act of July 20th, 1868, it
has been uniformly held that the distiller is not bound by the
survey until a copy of the report thereof, executed as required
by said section, is delivered to him, and that assessments must,
therefore, be made upon the basis of the survey last delivered
to the distiller prior to the period for which the assessment is
being made."
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The question whether a duty imposed by statute upon a
ministerial or executive officer, the performance or non-performance of which affects the rights of others, is merely
directory to the officer and only confers on parties injured a
right of action against the officer, or on the other hand, is a
condition essential to fix the rights of other parties as between themselves, is a very common, but often a very difficult one to decide.

Dec. 1872.]

PEABODY V. STARK.
Opinion of the court.

Its decision depends mainly upon a consideration of the
nature of the duty thus imposeil in its relation to the rights
of parties to be affected, but often also upon the proper con.
struction of the language employed in the statute as being
chiefly directed to the officer, or as declaratory of a principle
governing the rights of parties.
Looking to the statute before us in the former aspect, the
duty of depositing the copy of the survey with thb distiller,
is not in terms imposed upon the assessor, or the Commissioner of Internal Revenue; though the direction that this
shall be done is made emphatic by being repeated as to the
additional survey, if one shall be made. And while it is a
fair inference that it was the duty of the assessor to deposit
the copy with the distiller, it was so far an act which could
be legally performed by another, that we do not doubt it
would have been valid if performed by the commissioner or
an agent of his, the survey being duly certified. It can
hardly be said, then, that the statute is exclusively directed
to the assessor.
The purpose of the requirement of delivering a copy to
the distiller, which is manifestly to make certain to him that
he will be held liable for a definite number of gallons, at all
events, whether his distillery makes it or not, affords an argument of weight, that until he has this official information,
a rule so harsh was not to be applied to him.
On the other hand, it is said that this special provision
was only intended to secure one mode by which the assessed
capacity of -his distillery should come to the knowledge of
the distiller, and if he is correctly informed from any other
source of the number of gallons per day at which that capacity has been fixed by a legal survey, it is all that is necessary to govern his action.
In the absence of a clear conviction on the part of the
members of the court on either side of the proposition in
which all can freely unite, we incline to adopt the uniform
ruling of the office of the internal revenue commissioner,
holding that the distiller is not liable under the eighty per
cent. clause, until a copy of the survey in which'the tax is

HUMPHREY V. PEGUES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

assessed has been delivered to him as provided in section
ten. It is made to appear to us in a very satisfactory manner that such has been the unvarying rule of that office
since the act went into effect, and while we do not hold such
ruling as in general obligatory upon us, we are content to
adopt it in this case for the reason already mentioned, as
well as for its obvious fairness to the government and to the
distiller.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HUMPHREY V. PEGUES.
An act of assembly of a State passed in 1851 to incorporate a railroad company chartered a corporation, but did not exempt its property from taxation. An act passed in 1855 to amend its charterdid exempt it. In
1863 an act was passed conferring on a company which had been incorporated in 1849 to build a railroad, but which had never yet found inducements sufficient to make it build the road, all the rights, powers,
and privileges "granted by the charter" of the first-named road. Held:
863
r
1st. That the property of the second road was made, by the act of 1
exempt from taxation.
2d. That the legislature could not repeal the act of 1863 so as to subject it,
to taxation.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of South Carolina; the case being thus:
On the 16th of December, 1851, the legislature of South
Carolina, by "an act to incorporate the Northeastern Railroad Company," chartered the corporation now known by
that name. This act contained no exemption of the company's property from taxation, and by its terms was to continue in force for fifty years from the ratification thereof.
On the 19th of December, 1855, the same legislature
passed another act, entitled "An act to amend the charter of
the Northeastern Railroad Company, and for other purposes." This act enacted:
"SECTION

1. That the stock of the Northeastern IRailroad

