504

TWEED'S CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case.
The officer in command of the armies of the United States,
after the possession of New Orleans had been secured, required debtors in New Orleans of creditors in the enemy's
lines to pay such debts to the proper receiving officer of the
army. That the debts due from the citizens of a belligerent
state to the citizens of the state with whom the former is at
war may be confiscated is undoubted international law. If
such confiscation is, in fact, made by the military authorities,
and if the action of those authorities is assumed or confirmed
by the sovereign authority, the confiscation is perfect.
In this case the acts of the military authorities have been
substantially adopted and confirmed by the Federal government in passing a law exempting military officers from all
actions and suits for any acts done in their military capacity.
By this act, if any wrong was done, the government assumes it and holds itself responsible to the injured party, if
any illegality occurred.
One party must suffer in this case, either the debtor or
the creditor; and, as the debtor was compelled to pay the
debt to the military authorities it ought not to be compelled
to pay it over again to the creditor. Let the creditor apply
to the Federal government for relief, by which the acts of
the military authorities have been, in effect, assumed and
confirmed.
In my judgment, such a disposition of the case would
better accord with the principles of international law and
the mutual rights and relations of all the parties concerned.

TWEED'S CASE.
A person having entered, January 23d, 1866, into a contract with the government to purchase, as its agent, "cotton which formerly belonged to
the so-called ' Confederate States ' now in the possession of individuals
in the Red River country (concealed)," was not precluded by the fact
of such agency and during it from buying other cotton in that region

Dec. 1872.]

TWEED'S CASE.
Statement of the case.

not formerly belonging to those so-called States; he having discovered,
when he went to the region, that there was no cotton upon which '-is
contract operated, and his contract not obliging him by its terms to
devote his whole time to the business of the agency, nor from buying
cotton if of a kind not such as was described in his agreement.
A principal suit having been decided in one way, a proceeding by way of
intervention, and involving the same question, of necessity follows it.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
-the case being thus:
The act of Congress of July 2d, 1864,* in addition to that
of a prior date, "to provide for the collection 8f abandoned
property and for the prevention of frauds in insurrectionary
districts within the United States," enacted in its 8th section
that it should be lawful for the Secretary of the Treasury ...
"to authorize agents to purchase for the United States any
-products of States declared in insurrection . . . at such
prices as may be agreed on with the seller, not exceeding
the market value thereof at the place of delivery," &c.
This statute being in force, Tweed, upon the 23d of January, 1866, entered into a contract with one Burbridge, then
deputy general agent of the Treasury Department, in which,
after reciting "that it is represented that largo quantities of
cotton, which formerly belonged to the late so-called Confederate States, are now in possession of individuals in the
Red River country, concealed from the knowledge of agents
appointed to collect the same, and the marks by which said
former ownership could have been proved have been de.stroyed, for the purpose of enabling the individuals holding
it to convert it to their own use; and whereas, it is also represented that most of this cotton is held at places and in
districts remote from military posts, so that, if it could be
found and identified, it could not be brought forward by the
'agents, except by increasing the expense of obtaining military aid in its removal, and that the parties holding it dare
not bring it within the-reach of the civil or military authorities, for fear that its true character may be discovered,
thereby causing its seizure; and whereas, it is also repre* 12 Stat. at Large, 820.

TWEED'S CASE.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

sented that a large portion of this cotton can be purchased
from the holders at much less than its real value, if the purchaser will take the title at his own risk of seizure by government authorities," it was agreed that Tweed was to furnish all money necessary to buy said cotton, together with
all necessary assistance for the purpose of transportation,
and to "use all proper efforts to purchase as much of said
cotton situated upon and near the Red River and its tributaries as can be purchased, prepared for shipment, and transported to and delivered at New Orleans, at a cost not exceeding three-fourths its market value there, and to deliver
the same to said Burbridge, in New O'rleans." And, thereupon, lBurbridge agreed to deliver to Tweed three-fourths
of such cotton in full of his interest therein.
On the 24th of February, 1866, the Secretary of the- Treasury wrote from Washington, D. C., a letter to the general
agent of the Treasury Department at New Orleans, directing
the termination of this contract. As hereafter stated, Tweed
received notice of this revocation "in March, 1866."
Having obtained the contract above mentioned, Tweed
bought from various owners, at a fair market price, in and
about Shreveport, Louisiana, 495 bales of cotton; 463 bales
of it were bought on or before the 1st of March, 1866 (50 of
these 463 on the 5th of February preceding), and the rest
upon the 5th and 8th of March.
On the 10th of March, 1866, Burbridge was succeeded in
his office of deputy agent, &c., by one Flanders.
The cotton reached New Orleans March 23d, 1866, a part
of it having been shipped from Shreveport on the 13th of
the same month. Insurance on it was efected under an
open policy of Burbridge, deputy agent, &c., and it came to
New Orleans subject to adjudication by said Burbridge, &c.
On its arrival, Flanders, as successor of Burbridge, and
the now deputy general agent of the United States, claimed
one-fourth of it under the contract above stated, and accordingly delivered to Tweed the three-fourths, but refused to
deliver the other fourth.
Hereupon Tweed filed a petition in the court below claim-

Dee. .1872.]

TWEED'S CASE.

Statement of the case.

ing the 123 bales which Flanders, a deputy general agent,
retained. The petition alleged that no part of the cotton
which he had bought in and about Shreveport was captured
or abandoned property, and that the United States had no
right, title, or interest in the same, or any part thereof; that
the 123 bales retained were worth $17,500; and that he
Tweed, feared that Flanders would, pending the suit, dispose
of and remove them from the jurisdiction of the court. It
prayed for a citation of Flanders, sequestration of the cotton
until further orders, and that, after due proceedings, the
cotton be redelivered. The citation was granted and the
cotton sequestered, &c.
The answer of Flanders denied that Tweed owned the
cotton, and asserted that it belonged to the United States;
that he, Flanders, was in possession of it as an officer of the
United States, by virtue of a contract between Tweed and
the Treasury Department, and that the cotton being virtually in the custody of the United States was not liable to
sequestration, and that all his, Flanders's, acts in reference
to it were official, and not private; that, accordingly, the
court had no jurisdiction over the matters complained of,
but that such jurisdiction was exclusively in the Court of
Claims.
The United States, intervening, stated that the cotton belonged to them as sole owners, and that Flanders was in possession merely as their agent.
The case was tried before a jury. The bill of exceptions
showed that evidence was offered which c6nduced to show, That the cotton was raised in the northern part of Texas,
by planters, and was possessed by them until the winter of
1865-66, and was sent to market or to Jefferson, Texas, as private property, and thatit had never been captured by or surrendered
to the army or any military authorityof the United States, nor included in any surrender; that none of it was the property of the
Confederate States, or had been destined for their use, but was private property; that the defendant testified that he had no evidence
at all to affect it as captured or abandoned property; that while

said cotton was deposited in the warehouse at Jefferson, Texas,

508

TWEED'S CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
one Turnbull, then an agent to collect abandoned and captured
property, published a notice for claimants of cotton to make
oath of their ownership, and failing to do this he would seize it
as captured property. One of the parties whose property was
seized had no notice of the order, and his property was taken
and held by Turnbull, and other property was seized by said
Turnbull upon protest of the same kind; and the testimony generally conduced to prove these facts, and that in the opinion
of the witness his seizures were oppressive, causeless, and for the
purpose of extortion."
"That in March, 1866, the plaintiff went to Shreveport under
his contract; that he discovered that there was no property of
the kind described in the contract upon which it operated. He
was also informed that the contract had been revoked by the
Treasury Department. The supervising agent at Shreveport first
gave him information to this effect. Thereupon he determined not
to take any proceedings under it, and so notified the agent at
Shreveport. During the months of February and March, he
made purchases of cotton from the owners of the cotton that
had been held and seized by Turnbull as aforesaid, and which
was then in custody of the agents aforesaid by reason of the
seizure. He was informed that no evidence had been produced to
affect the claims of the owners and the purchases were safe. The
supervising treasury agent at Shreveport, who held the cotton,
so advised the plaintiff."
THE PLAINTIFF asked the court to charge:
"If the cotton described in the petition was not captured by
the army of the United States, nor surrendered to them, was
not abandoned property, nor was ever property of the Confederate States, but 'was produced on plantations of private individuals, and was held and possessed as private property by them
until the purchase of the same by the plaintiff; and if he purchased the same on his own account frpm such private owner,
and th same was delivered to him, and the same was so held
unt.1 the detention of the same by the defendant, who did not
take, or hold, or possess it under color of any law or statute of the
United States, or any authority of his office, or color of the same, but
of his own will, the plaintiff is entitled to recover."
This charge the court gave, and the defendants excepted.

Dec. 1872o.]

TWEED'S CASE.
Argument for the United States.

THE DEFENDANT

asked the court, to charge, in effect:

"1. That a writ of sequestration would not lie if the defendant held the cotton in question as deputy general agent of the.
Treasury Department, under the acts of Congress relating to
captured or abandoned property.
"2. That the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction by virtue of
the writ of sequestration to direct the cotton to be taken from
the possession of the defendant, if the same, at the time the writ
issued, was in his possession as such agent, under color of the
acts of Congress relating to captured and abandoned property.
"3. That the defendant, if he held the possession of the cotton, as such agent for the collection of captured or abandoned
property, had the right to retain the same, and that the plaintiff
could not recover the property except by suit in the Court of
Claims."
The court refused thus to charge; 'and the defendant excepted. The jury found for the plaintiff, and judgment.went
accordingly.
On the exceptions above stated, and on the refusal of the
court on motion to arrest the judgnient, the cases were now
here on writs of error by both Flanders and the United
States.
Mr. S. F. -Phillips,Solicitor-General, with whom was Mr
G. H. Williams, Attorney- General, for the plaintiff in error:
The case raises these questions:
1. How far one, who became an agent of the United States
to purchase cotton of a certain description at a specified
time and place, can show that cotton purchased by him at
such a time and place is not within the scope of his agency?
2. Whether property held under the act of July 8th, 1864,
section two, is liable to sequestration, pendente lite, in favor
of an adverse claimant?
3. Whether the only remedy of the plaintiff below be not
exclusively in the Court of Claims?
I. The error in the instruction requested by the plaintii,
and. given by the court, is, that it takes for granted that
Tweed as agent of the United States, under the contract,

TWEED'S CASE.

[Sup. of.

Argument for the United States.

could, with regard to any cotton bought by him at the time
and place that most if not all of this was, disclaim being an
agent of the United States.
There was no evidence that Tweed's agency had been revoked by the first day of March, 1866. The letter authorizing such revocation was written at Washington on the
24th of February before, addressed to an officer at New Orleans, but Tweed first heard of it "in March," at Shreveport. The burden of showing when an existing agency
terminated, is upon him who avers it, and, therefore, in this
case, upon Tweed. All that he shows thereupon is that he
first heard of it in March, without further specification. It
may be assumed as a fact that Tweed had not heard of the
revocation until several days after the 1st of March. It also
appears that four hundred and sixty-three bales of this parcel of cotton were bought by Tweed on or before March 1st,
and all of it by March 8th. Much the larger part of the
cotton, therefore, was bought at the time when and the place
where Tweed's agency operated; probably all of it was.
Will public policy allow him to suggest that such cotton
was bought as principal, for his own individual advantage ?
Tweed shows that the contract extended to only such Confederate cotton as was on Red River, and he alleges that this
was not of that class.
Before proceeding further, we observe that, if any part of
this cotton, no matter how small, was purchased by Tweed
as agent,-in this suit brought by him under an allegation
that none of it was so purchased, the plaintiffs in error are
entitled to the benefit of the doctrines in respect to the
mingling and confusion by agents of their own and their
principal's goods. The case shows that fifty bales were purchased on the 5th of February.
The contract was undoubtedly made at Tweed's promotion.
This imposed upon him vigilance, activity, and the duty of
having an eye single to the interest of his employer, to such
extent that whilst agent he could not place himself in a position to become interested to allay or divert the suspicion
of that employer as to any particular parcel of cotton. His

Dec. 1872.]

TWEED'S CASE.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

bona fides in a particular case need not be questioned. The
question is whether an allowance of such liberty to an agent
may not open a door to fraud in general. 'Will the relation
of principal and agent admit of such liberty? 'We think
not.*
II. As respects the refusal of the court to give the first
and second instructions asked by the defendant, we assign
as ground of error that the court assumed the propriety of
the writ of sequestration issued in this case. Concede that
the plaintiff was entitled to recover in some action, yet durin g the pendency of his action the property in question could
not be taken out of the hands of au agent of the United
States by sequestration; because,
1st. The custody of the cotton by Flanders was the custody
of the law. A thing in the keeping of an officer of the government, under color of a statute of the United States, upon
trust for the benefit of the whole country, is in custody of the
law, as much as if in the keeping of an officer of the government, under color of process from a court or magistrate,
upon trust for the benefit of. one or more citizens.
2d. The possession by Flanders was the possession by the
United States.
In the third instruction refused, the court below assumed
a jurisdiction which was exclusively in the Court of Claims.
Mr. T. D. Lincoln, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Cotton in bales -to a large amount was purchased by the
plaintiff ,from different owners of the same, for which he
paid a fair market value, as appears by the bills of sale exhibited in the record, amounting in the whole to four hundred and ninety-five bales; [?] that he shipped the same
for his own account, to his own agents in New Orleans, and
that he paid the freight on the same, and the other expenses
and insurance. Testimony was also introduced by the plain* See Keech v. Sandford, 2 Equity Cases, Abridged; Moore v. Moore, 1
Selden, 266.

TWEED'S CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

tiff showing that the cotton was raised by planters in an adjoining State, and that they continued to possess it until it
was sent to market; that the cotton had never been captured by, or surrendered to our army; that none of it was
the property of the Confederate States, nor had it ever been
destined for their use.
Prior to those transactions a contract had been made between a supervising special agent of the Treasury Department and the plaintiff, that the plaintiff should engage in
the business of collecting captured and abandoned cotton in
that district. By that instrument it was agreed between the
parties that the plaintiffs should furnish all money necessary
to purchase the cotton, and all the assistance required for
the purpose, and all the requisite transportation, and that he
should use all proper efforts to make the purchases and to
transport and deliver the same to the other party, at the port
of New Orleans, in good shipping order, with receipted bills
of sale from the holders, at a cost not exceeding three-fourths
of its market value, and free and discharged of all cost of
purchase and expense of transportation. In consideration
of which the other party agreed to pay and deliver to the
plaintiff three-fourths of the cotton, of average quality, as
compensation in full for his services, and all costs and expenses. Efforts were made by the plaintiff to make such
purchases, but it appears that he soon found that there was
no cotton of that description within the said district, and
having learned that the contract had been revoked by the
Treasury Department, he determined to proceed no further
under that agreement.
Property of the kind, however, was seized by another
party, to whose transactions it becomes necessary to advert,
in order to a full understanding of the present controversy.
He, the said other party, published a notice for the claimants
of cotton to appear and make oath of their ownership, stating that if they failed to do so he would seize it as captured
property. Such property was seized by that party, claiming
to be an agent to collect captured and abandoned property,
but the evidence introduced tended to prove that his seizures

Dec. 1872.]

TWEED'S OASE.

Restatement of the casa in the opinion.

were causeless and oppressive. Some of the cotton seized
under those circumstances, and which remained in the hands
of the agents of the party making the seizures, the plaintiff
admits he purchased, from the owners of the same, having
been previously informed by a supervising treasury agent
that no evidence had been produced to affect the claims of
the owners, and that it was safe to make the purchases, andc
it appears that the cotton was shipped to New Orleans with
his other shipments.

All of these transactions took plaC-

while the other party to the written agreement was a super
vising special agent, but he was soon after superseded, unde,
the instructions of thQ Treasury Department, and the defend,
ant in the present suit was appointed in his place.
Enough is remarked to show the origin of the controversy, as the defendant insisted that the written agreement
between his predecessor and the plaintiff was applicable to,
all the cotton which the plaintiff had purchased and shipped,
and that he, as the successor of the other party to that agreement, was entitled to hold one-fourth of the cotton so purchased and shipped, for the United States.
• Pursuant to that claim the defendant made a division of
the cotton, and delivered three-fourths of the same to the.
plaintiff and retained one-fourth of the whole amount. Demand of the other one-fourth having been refused, the plaintiff instituted the present suit to recover the residue of the
cotton, being one hundred and twenty-three bales, valued
at the sum of $17,500. Service was made, and the defendant
appeared and made defence.
Proceedings in the meantime took place under the last
paragraph of the petition, in which the plaintiff prayed that
a writ of sequestration might be issued, directed to the marshal, requiring him to take the cotton in question into his
possession, and to hold the same subject to the order of thecourt, and he also prayed for judgment decreeing that the
cotton is his property, and that the same be delivered to'
him, or that he have judgment for the value, with interest
from judicial demand, and with privilege upon the property
sequestered. Proceae of sequestration was accordingly issued
VOL. ZVI.

88

TWEED'S CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

by the court, and it appears that it was duly served and executed by the marshal.
Exceptions to the proceeding were filed by the defendant,
in which he alleged: (1.) That the cotton is captured property, and that it was at the time the writ of sequestration
was issued, and that the property, as such, was in his possession and custody for the use and benefit of the United
States. (2.) That the Circuit Court is without jurisdiction
of the case, as the property sequestered is defacto and dejure
captured property under the acts of Congress, and that it
should be dealt with as the law provides.
He also filed an answer, in which he denied that the
plaintiff was the owner of the property, and set up the same
-defence as in his preliminary exceptions. Subsequently the
district attorney intervened, and alleged that the United
States were the sole owners of the cotton, and prayed that
their claim might be allowed and adjudged good, and that
the proceedings instituted by the plaintiff may be disallowed
and dismissed. Application was made by each party to
bond the property, but the application of the plaintiff was
granted and that of the defendant was denied.
Unsuccessful in that, the defendant next filed a peremptory exception to the right of the plaintiff to recover in the
suit, in which he alleged that the plaintiff was not and never
was the owner of the property; that he never owned but a
two-thirds interest in the same; that the other third interest
is, and throughout has been in another party. Hearing was
had and the court overruled the peremptory exception and
entered a decree recognizing the plaintiff as the lawful owner
of the property. Whereupon the defendant sued out a writ
of error and the cause was transferred to this court, where
the judgment was reversed because the record did not contain any stipulation in writing waiving a trial by jury, and
the cause was remanded for further proceedings.*
Pursuant to the directions of the mandate the cause came
in order for further proceedings, and leave was granted to
* Flanders v. Tweed, 9 Wallace, 425.

Dec. 1872.]

TWEED'S CASE.

515

Opinion of the court.

the defendant to amend his answer, which he did by setting
up, in a more formal manner, the defences mentioned in his
preliminary exception and in his former answer. Evidence
was introduced by both parties, and the jury, under the instructions of the court, returned their verdict in favor of the
plaintiff.
Four exceptions were taken at the trial, and the questions
which those exceptions present are the only questions open
in the case for re-examination. They relate to the instruction given by the court to the jury, and the three requests
for instruction presented by the defendant which the court
refused to give.
By the bill of exceptions it appears that the court instructed the jury, in substance and effect, as follows: That
if the jury believe that the cotton was not captured by the
;army, nor surrendered to the national forces; that it was
not abandoned property nor ever the property of the Confederate States, but that it was raised on the plantations of
-private individuals and that it was held and possessed by
the owners as private property until the purchase of the
same by the plaintiff; that the plaintiff purchased the same
-on his own account from such private owners, and that he
held the same until it was taken by the defendant, and that
the defendant did not take, hold, or possess it under color
-of any law or statute of the United States or any authority
of his office or color of the same, but of his own will, then
the plaintiff is entitled to recover.
Reasonably viewed it is clear that the instruction given
covered every allegation of the claim and every ground of
defence set up both in the preliminary exception and in the
-amended answer. Instructions given by the court at the
trial are entitled to a reasonable interpretation, and if the
propositions as stated are correct they are not, as a general
rule, to be regarded as the subject of error on account of
-omissions not pointed out by the excepting party, as the
party aggrieved, if he supposes the instructions given are
either indefinite or not sufficiently comprehensive, is always

TWEED'S CASE.

[Sup. CL.

Opinion of the court.

at liberty to ask that further and more explicit instructions
may be given, and if he does not do so he is not entitled to
claim a reversal of the judgment for any such supposed
error.* Courts are not inclined to grant a new trial merely
on account of ambiguity in the charge of the court to the
jury, where it appears that the complaining party made no
effort at the trial to have the point explained.t Where the
court charge the jury correctly upon all the ingredients of
the cause of action and upon all the matters of the defence,
it is not error in the court to refuse to instruct as requested
by either party, even though the proposition presented is.
correct as an abstract proposition.
Beyond all doubt evidence was introduced by the plaintiff
tending to prove every proposition involved in that instruction, and it is equally clear that the evidence was of a character to warrant the finding of the jury. Suppose that is so,
still it is insisted by the defendant that the instruction is
erroneous, because it assumes that the plaintiff, notwithstanding the written agreement to which he was a party,
could make such purchases on his own account, but the bill
of exceptions shows that there was no property to be purchased of the kind specified in the written agreement, and
that the plaintiff, having ascertained that the authority of
the other party had been revoked, determined not to act
under the agreement; that the plaintiff purchased the cotton
on his own account, and paid the whole of the purchasemoney, and that none of the cotton had ever been captured
by our army or surrendered to our military authorities, and
that none of it was the property of the Confederate States
or had ever been abandoned by the owners.
Tried, as the case was, by a jury, it was certainly proper
that the court should submit the whole evidence to their
determination; and it is clear that the jury by their finding
*

Castle v. Bullard, 23 Howard, 189; Rogers v. The Marshal, 1 Wallace,

654.
f Locke v. United States, 2 Clifford, 580; Express Co. v. Kountze, 8 Wallace, 353.
1 Mills v. Smith, 8 Wallace, 27.

Dec. 1872.]

TWEED'S CASE.
Opinion of the court.

have affirmed every proposition involved in the instruction
in favor of the plaintiff. Such being the fact, the rule is
that where the instructions given to the jury are sufficient
to present the whole controversy to their consideration, and
the instructions are framed in clear and unambiguous terms,
it is no cause for the reversal of the judgment to show that
one or more of the prayers for instruction presented by the
losing party, and not given by the court, were correct in the
abstract, as the refusal of the court to give the instructions
as requested under those circumstances could not work any
injury to the party making the request, and therefore cannot
be regarded as error.* 'What more the defendant could
properly have it is difficult to see, as the court submitted
every inquiry of fact involved in the instruction to the judgment of the jury, and they, having returned their verdict
for the plaintiff, it follows that the theory of fact assumed in
the instruction is established as true, unless a new trial is
granted by the court which tried the cause, or by the direction of this court for error of law. Taken together, the
-charge and the verdict, as perfected by the judgment, afford
a presumption that the theory of fact assumed in the ifistrucfion is true, unless the contrary is stated in the bill of excepIions, or it appears that there was no sufficient evidence to
'.arraut the court in submitting the questions to the jury.t
Three requests for instructions were made by the defendtnt, to the effect following:
1. That a writ of sequestration would not lie if the defendant held the cotton in question as deputy general agent
of the Treasury Department, under the acts of Congress relating to captured or abandoned property.
Sufficient has already been remarked to show that there
was no evidence in the case to warrant the court in submit* The Schools v. Risley, 10 Wallace, 115; Law v. Cross, I-Black, 536;
Tome v. Dubois, 6 Wallace, 555.
t Russell v. Ely, 2 Black, 580; State v. Hopkins, 5 Rhode Island, 58;
Murray v. Fry, 6 Porter (Indiana), 372; Day v. Raguet, 14 Minnesota, 283.

TWEED'S CASE.

[Sup. C4

Opinion of the court.

ting such a question to the jury as an independent instruction, and the exception is accordingly overruled.*
2. That the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction by virtue of
the writ of sequestration to direct the cotton to be taken
from the possession of the defendant, if the jury find that
the same, at the time the writ issued, was in his possession
as such agent, under color of the acts of Congress relating
to captured and abandoned property.
But the defendant had no right to seize the cotton in
question, as the evidence showed that it had never been
captured nor abandoned, and that the title to the same had
become vested in the plaintiff by purchase from the private
owners. Proof to show that the theory of the defence in
that behalf is correct was entirely wanting. On the contrary, the defendant himself testified that he had no evidence
at all to affect it as captured or abandoned property at the
time the suit was instituted, which is certainly sufficient to
show that the instruction requested was properly refused, as
it is settled law that it is error in the court to give an instruction when there is no evidence in the case to support
the theory of fact which it assumes.t
3. That the defendant, if he held the possession of the
cotton, as such agent for the collection of captured or abandoned property, had the right to retain the same, and that
the plaintiff could not recover the property except by suit
in the Court of Claims.
Throughout the several propositions of the defence, the
theory of fact is constantly interwoven that the defendant
held the cotton under color of the acts of Congress relating
to captured and abandoned property, but it is clear that a
party cannot be held to have acted under color or by virtue
of an act of Congress which did not confer any authority
upon him, or any other person, to perform the act which is
in controversy.T Neither an officer nor an agent can prop* United States v. Breitling, 20 Howard, 254.
t Id.; Goodman v. Simonds, 1b. 359.
: Reynolds v. Orvis, 7 Cowen, 272; Bigelow v. Stearns, 19 Johnson, 40;
King v. Bedford, 6 East, 369; Britton v. Butler, 9 Blatchford, 462.

Dec. 1872.]

TWEED'S OASE.
Opinion of the court.

erly be said to have acted under color of a law which neither
gave him nor any other person authority to do the act in
question, nor can an officer be said to have acted under the
authority of his office unless he has some appearance of right
to it and is in possession and acting in that capacity, as the
acts of a mere intruder or usurper of an office, without any
colorable title, are undoubtedly wholly void both as to individuals and the public.* Whenever a person sued sets up a
defence that he was an officer or an employe of the government acting under color of law, it plainly devolves upon him
to show that the law which he invokes authorized the act in
question to be done, and that he acted in good faith; but
nothing of the kind is shown in this case. Instead of that
he admits in his own testimony that he had no evidence at
all to affect the cotton as captured or abandoned property.
Apart from that defence the theory is also constantly set
up that the plaintiff during that period could not purchase
cotton of the owners even though it was neither captured
nor abandoned property, as he was, by virtue of that agreement, an agent of the United States, to which two answers
may be made, either of which is sufficient to show that the
theory is unfounded and without merit: (1.) Because the
agreement does not contain any stipulation that the plaintiff
should devote his whole time to the business of the agency,
nor any other of a character to prohibit him from purchasing
cotton from the private owners if the same was not included
in the category of the cotton described in the written agreement. (2.) Because the written agreement never in fact
became operative, as the plaintiff, not finding any such cotton in the district specified, never made any such purchases.
Nothing need be added in respect to the ruling of the
court in denying the motion in arrest of judgment, as the
motion raises the same questions as those involved in the
prayers for instruction presented by the defendant and
which were refused by the court.
* Plymouth v. Painter, 17 Connecticut, 593; People v. White, 24 Veudell, 525; Carleton v. People, ] 0.Michigan, 258; People v. Hopson, 1 Dcnio,
579.

TWEED'S CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

Mention has already been made of the fact that the United
States intervened in the suit, and the record shows that their
claim was subsequently dismissed and that they also sued
out a writ of error and removed the whole proceeding into
this court, which is number 136 on the calendar.
All that is necessary to add upon the subject is, that the
principal suit having been decided in favor of the plaintiff,
the proceeding in intervention must necessarily fall with
the defence set up by the defendant in that suit.
JUDGMENT IN EACH CASE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, with whom concurred Mr. Justice DAVIS, dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion of the court in these cases.
Tweed, the defendant in error, repaired to the Red River
region to purchase cotton, under a written engagement with
a government agent to purchase and pay for the same, and
to deliver one-fourth part to the government, upon the express consideration stated in the agreement, that it was well
known that a great deal of cotton belonging to the Confederate government was in that district, but could not be identified, and was kept back by the parties having it in possession for fear of its being seized. Tweed was to have the
prestige of government protection; was to purchase any
cotton he could find for sale, without any questions; was to
send it to the government agent at New Orleans, and there
three-fourths of it were to be set apart to his use and onefourth to the use of the government. This was the general
purport and effect of the agreement. There cannot be a
doubt, from the evidence in the case, that he derived great
advantage from his semi-official character. But having made
his purchases, he concluded that it would be a better speculation to have all the cotton than only three-fourths of it;
and, therefore, he sets up the pretence that he did not act
under the agreement, but on his own independent account.
The cotton,.however, went forward, protected by the general
policy of insurance taken out by the government agent, and
arrived at New Orleans. The government agent, Flanders,

Dec.1872.]

TWEED'S CASE.
Opinion of Bradley and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

took possession of it, and gave up to Tweed his three-fourths,
according to the agreement. The balance he retained for
the government, against Tweed's consent, and was sustained
in his action by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Tweed sued out a sequestration (a writ in the nature of
the common-law replevin) from the United States Circuit
Court of Louisiana, and by virtue of that writ one-fourth
part of the cotton held by Flanders, the government agent,
for the government, was taken out of his possession, and the
court held that this was a lawful exercise of the judicial
authority.
Now, on the merits of the case, I cannot concur in the
opinion that Tweed could, under the circumstances, repudiate his agreement; but I think he was bound by it and by
his acts, and was estopped from asserting an independent
purchase of the cotton on his own account; and that the
charge of the court should have been to that effect, and that
the charge given and the refusal to charge as requested were
erroneous.
I also hold that this was a suit against the government
itself. Flanders did not hold the cotton on his own account,
but on government account; and his acts were sanctioned
and adopted by the Treasury Department. He was acting
for the government, and his possession was the government's
possession. Whether he was acting lawfully or unlawfully
was a question which the court could not decide by an adverse proceeding in a suit brought for the recovery of the
cotton.
This is a very different case from that of a replevin brought
by the owner of goods unlawfully taken by a sheriff upon
execution against another person. Goods in the custody of
the law, seized for the benefit of a private party, in satisfaction of a judgrhent or to meet an asserted claim, may be
replevied by the true owner; but goods claimed by the government itself, as its own goods, and held by its agents in
possession, cannot be reclaimed in this manner. They can
only be reclaimed by application to Congress, or, in certain
cases, to the Court of Claims.

STEAMBOAT

COMPANY V.

CHASE.

Esup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Nor is the case governed by that class of cases in which a
mandamus will lie against a government officer to compel
him to perform a ministerial duty. Such a writ is issued,
or is supposed to be issued, by the government itself, to
compel its officials to do their duty to its citizens.

STEAMBOAT

COMPANY V.

CHASE.

A statute of a State giving to the next of kin of a person crossing upon one
of its public highways with reasonable care, and killed by a common
carrier by means of steamboats, an action on the case for damages forthe injury caused by the death of such person, does not interfere with
the admiralty jurisdiction of the District Courts of the United States, asconferred by the Constitution and the Judiciary Act of September 24th,
1789; and this is so, even though no such remedy enforceable through
the admiralty existed when the said act was passed, or has existed since.

the Supreme Court of Rhode Island.
A statute of the State just named,* passed in October,
1853, and relating to common carriers by means of steamboats, enacts :
ERROR to

"SECTION 16. If the life of any person crossing upon a publie
highway with reasonable care, shall be lost by reason of the
negligence or carelessness of such common carriers, or by the
unfitness or negligence or carelessness of their servants or
agents, in this State, such common carriers shall be liable to
damages for the injury caused by the loss of life of such person,
to be recovered by action on the case, for the benefit of the husband or widow and next of kin of the deceased person.
"SE cTION 21. In all cases in which the death of any persons
ensues from injury inflicted by the wrongful act of another,
and in which an action for damages might have been maintained
at the common law had death not ensued, the person inflicting
such injury shall be liable to an action for damages for the injury caused by the death of such person, to be recovered by
* Revised Statutes, chapter 176.

Of Actions.

