OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabu .

203 1T.
p .

suggested, in another connection (see Bank of America
National Trust & S. Ass!. v. Cuccia, supra), that the
grape vines require "cultivation, pruning and care," lest
they "deteriorate." It is unnecessary to determine the
effect of an expenditure of the proceeds of a crop where
the mortgagee has no lien on the property pres6rved and
protected by the expenditures.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO too:- n1o part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. BANKLINE OIL CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 387. Argued February 9, 1938.-Decided March 7, 1938.
1. The deduction for depletion in the taxation of profits from oil
and gas wells is allowed as an act of grace, in recognition of the
fact that mineral deposits are wasting assets, and is intended
as compensation to the owner for the part used up in production.
P. 366.
will not get the property for less than its actual value. The Act
provides that upon the creditor's request the property must be
reappraised, or sold at public auction; and the mortgagee may by
bidding at such sale fully protect his interest. 'Non-payment of
taxes may imperil the title. Payments for upkeep are essential to
the preservation of the property. These payments prescribed by
the Act are in accordance with the common practice in foreclosure
proceedings where the property is'in the hands of receivers."
* Together with No. 388, Bankline Oil Co. v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, also on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

HELVERING v. BANKLINE OIL CO.
362

Syllabus.

2. Making Ihe deduction arbitr-ry-a per cent. of gross income from

the property-was for convenience and did not alter the fundamental theory of the depletion allowanec. P. 367.
3. The allowance of a per cent. "of the gross income from the

property," i. e. income from oil and gas, is made to the recipients
of the gross income by reason of their capital investment in the
oil and gas in place. Id.
4. A mere procesor who derives an economic advantage through
contracts with producers of oil or gas but who has no capital
investment in the mineral deposit, has not such an "economic
interest" in the oil or gas in place that he may have .an allowance
for their depletion. Id.
5. The Revenue Acts of 1926 and 1928 provide that in computing
net income there shall, in the case of oil aiid gas wells, be an
allowance for depletion of "271/2 per centum of the gross income
from the property during the taxable' year." The taxpayer, a
corporation, derived income from the sale of gasoline which it
extracted, from "wet" (natural) gas obtained undler contracts
with producers. The contract in*each case required the taxpayer
to lay a pipeline from the well to its plant, connecting the pipe
with the casing-head or gas trap at the mouth of the well; it
required the producer to deliver into the pipeline, at the casinghead or trap, the gas produced at the well; and required the
taxpayer to extract the gasoline from the gas so delivered and to
pay the producer a specified share of the gross proceeds of its
sale or a specified share of the gasoline. Held, that the taxpayer
was not entitled to an allowance for depletion, since it had no
interest in the wells or in the "wet" gas in phice, and took no part
in the produefion of it. Pp. 364-367.
The taxpayer had the right to have the gas delivered, but
did not produce it and could not compel its production. The
pipelines and equipment, which it provided, facilitated the delivery of the gas produced, but the agreement for their installation granted no interest in the gas in place. Nor was such an
interest created by the provision for payment for the gas delivered, whether the payment was made in money out of the proceeds of the gasoline extracted or by delivery of the agreed portion
of the gasoline. Whether or not the "wet" gas had a rnarket
value and, if it had, whether that value was greater than the
amount paid for it, is in no sense determinative. The taxpayer
was still a processor, paying for what it received at the well's
mouth.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the ('Court.

303 U. S.

6. Where a State leases its land to a private party for extraction
of oil and gas, reserving a royalty, a federal tax on the lessee's
profits from the operations is not invalid as an unconstitutional
burden on a state instrumentality. Burnet v. Jergins Trust. 288
U. S. 508. P. 369.
See Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., post, p. 376.
90 F. 2d 899, reversed in part; affirmed in part.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 675, on two petitions, directed to
different rulings made in the court below upon review of
decisions of the board of Tax Appeals, 33 B. T. A. 910.
Assistant Solicitor General Bell, vt ith whom Solicitor
General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, A. F. Prescott, and Warner WV.
Gardner were on the briefs, for the Commissioner.
Mr. Martin J. Weil, with whom Mr. A. L. Weil was on
the briefs, for the Bankline Oil Company.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
No. 387.-This case presents the question whether respondent, the Bankline Oil Company, is entitled to an
allowance for depletion with respect to gas produced from
certain oil and gas wells. The ruling of the Board of
Tax Appeals that the taxpayer had no depletable interest
(33 B. T. A. 910) was reversed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 90 F. (2d) 899. Because of an asserted conflict with the principles applicable under the decisions of
this Court, we granted certiorari.
Respondent in the years 1927 to 1930 operated a casing-

head gasoline plant in the Signal Hill Oil Field, Los
Angeles County, California. Respondent had entered into
contracts with oil producers for the treatment of wet gas
by the extraction of gasoline. The Board of Tax Appeals
made the following findings:

HELVERING v. BANKLINE OIL CO.
362

Opinion of the Court.

Natural gas, commonly known as "wet gas" as it flows
from the earth, is not a salable commodity. It is only
through processing-by separation of the gasoline therefrom-rendering it dry, that it may be sold for conimercial uses. Conversely, it is only through the separation of
dry gas from wet gas that the gasoline is salable. It-is
this process that produces casinghead gasoline. The content of gasoline in wet gas varies from one-half gallon to
six gallons a thousand cubic feet of gas produced, depending upon its richness. Respondent's contracts provided,
generally, that it should install and maintain the necessary pipe lines and connections from casingheads or traps
at the mouth of the -well to its plant, through which the
producer agreed to deliver the natural gas produced at
the well, and that respondent should extract the gasoline
therefrom, respondent to pay the pfoducer 33'3 per cent.
of the total gross proceeds derived from the sale of gasoline extracted from wet gas, or, at producer's option, to
deliver to the producer 33% per cent. of the salable gaso'line so extracted. A slightly different type of contract
provided for the outright "purchase" from the producer
of all natural gas produced at a given well, the respond-ent paying 331/ per cent. of the gross-proceeds received
by it from the sale of the gasoline extracted from such gas.
Some of the dry gas remaining after removal of the
gasoline was blown to the air and wasted because there
was no market for it, while some was sold to public utilities, and in that case respondent accounted to the producer for a proportion of the proceeds provided for under
the contract, and some was returned to the wells to be
used for pressure purposes.
The Government maintains that under the contracts
respondent took no part in the production of the wet gas,
conducted no drilling operations upon any of the producing premises, did not pump oil or gas from the wells, and

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

had no interest as lessor or lessee, or as sub-lessor or sublessee, in any of the producing wells.
Respondent states that in accordance with the provisions of the contracts it attached pipe lines to the various wells, carried the gas from those wells to its plant,
where the gas from the wells of the different producers
was commingled, and removed the gasoline therefrom.
The gasoline was sold and respondent accounted to each
producer "for one-third of the proceeds of the producer's
pro rata of the gasoline made." Respondent contends
that it was entitled to deduct for depletion 27/" per cent.
of the difference between the price which it paid for the
wet gas and its fair market value at the mouths of the
wells. Respondent took the "prevailing royalty," which
it deemed to be established by the evidence, as that market value, and treated the difference between the amount
respondent paid and the greater prevailing royalty as
respondent's gross income for the purpose of applying
the statute. Revenue Acts of 1926, § 204 (c) (2), § 234
(a) (8); 1928, § 23 (1) (m),. 114 (b) (3).
The Circuit Court of Appeals was of the opinion that
respondent had acquired an economic interest in the wet
gas in place and was entitled to an allowance for depletion. But as no finding had been made of the market
value of the wet gas, or of respondent's net income from
the property, the court remanded the case to the Board
of Tax Appeals to the end that respondent might supplement its proof and that an allowance for depletion
should be made in accordance with the evidence produced.
In order to determine whether respondent is entitled to
depletion with respect to the production in question, we
must recur to the fundamental purpose of the statutory
allowance. The deduction is permitted as an act of grace.
It is permitted in recognition of the fact that the mineral
deposits are wasting assets and is intended as compensation to the owner for the part used up in production.

HELVERING v. BANKLINE OIL CO.
362

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Ludey, 274 U. S. 295, 302. The granting
of an arbitrary deduction, in the case of oil and gas wells,
of a percentage of gross income was in the interest of convenience and in no way altered the fundamental theory of
the allowance. United States v. Dakota-MontanaOil Co.,
288 U. S. 459, 467. The percentage is "of the gross income
from the property,"-a phrase which "points only to the
gross income from oil and gas." Helvering v. Twin Bell
Syndicate, 293 U. S. 312, 321. The allowance is to the
recipients of this gross income by reason of their capital
investment in the oil or gas in place. Palmer v. Bender;
287 U. S.551, 557.
It is true that the right to the depletion allowance does
not depend upon any "particular form of legal interest in
the mineral content of the land." We have said, with
reference to oil wells, that, it is enough if one "has an
economic interest in the oil, in place, which is depleted
by production"; that "the language of the statute is
broad enough to provide, at least, for every case in which
the taxpayer has acquired, by investment, any interest in
the oil in place, and secures, by any form of legal relationship, income derived from the extraction of the oil, to
which he must look for a return of his capital." Palmer
v. Bender, supra. But the phrase "economic interest" is
not to be taken as embracing a mere economic advantage
derived from production, through a contractual relation to
the.owner, by one who has no capital investment in the
mineral deposit. See Thomas v. Perkins, 301 U. S. 655,
661.
It is plain that, apart from its contracts with producers, respondent had no interest in the producing wells or
in the wet gas in place. Respondent is a processor. It
was not engaged in production. Under its contracts witl,
producers, respondent was entitled to a delivery of the
gas produced at the wells, and to extract gasoline therefrom, and was bound to pay to the producers the stipulated amounts. Some of the contracts, reciting that the

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.,

303 U.S.

producer was the owner of the gas produced, provided
for its treatment by respondent. Other contracts were
couched in terms of purchase. In either case the gas
was to be delivered to respondent at the casingheads or
gas traps installed by the producer. Respondent had the
right to have the gas delivered, but did not produce it
and could not compel its production. The pipe lines and
equipment, which respondent provided, facilitated the
delivery of the gas produced but the agreement for their
installation granted no interest in the gas in place. Nor
was such an interest created by the provision for payment for the gas delivered, whether the payment was
made in money out of the proceeds of the gasoline extracted or by delivery of the agreed portion of the gasoline. Whether or not the wet gas had a market value
and, if it had, whether that value was greater than the
amount respondent paid, is in no sense determinative.
Respondent was still a processor, paying for what it received at the well's mouth. As the Board of Tax Appeals said: "It. is safe to say, we believe, that this petitioner [respondent] had no enforceable rights whatsoever under its contracts prior to the time the wet gas
was actually placed in its pipe line, i. e., after it had
passed beyond the casingheads and gas traps supplied by
the producer into the pipe line, except the right, perhaps, to demand that the producer deliver whatever was
produced through its pipe lines for treatment during the
period of contractual relationship."
Undoubtedly, respondent through its contracts obtained an economic advantage from the production of the
gas, but that is not sufficient. The controlling fact is
that respondent had no interest in the gas in place. Respondent had no capital investment in the mineral deposit which suffered depletion and is not entitled to the
statutory allowance.

HELVERING v. BANKLINE OIL CO.
362

Opinion of the Court.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals in this
relation is reversed and the decision of the Board of Tax
Appeals is affirmed.
No. 388.-In 1929, the State of California leased to J.
H. Barneson oil and gas lands in Santa Barbara County,
reserving a royalty. We assume, for the purposes of this
case, as it was assumed below, that the lease was of tidelands owned by the State. Barneson acted on behalf of
petitioner, the Bankline Oil Company, in obtaining the
lease, which was duly assigned to petitioner and approved
by the State. Claiming that the income received from
operations under the lease was exempt from the federal
income tax, upon the ground that such a tax would constitute an unconstitutional burden upon a state instrumentality, petitioner sought to recover the tax paid for
the year 1930. The Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming
the decision of the Board of Tax Appeals (33 B. T. A.
910), overruled petitioner's contention. 90 F. (2d) 899.
In view of the importance of the question, certiorari was
granted.
We are of opinion that the decision of the Circuit Court
of Appeals was right. As petitioner was engaged in its
own business in producing the oil, it was bound to pay a
federal income tax upon its profits even though its operations were conducted on state lands. We are unable to
find any substantial distinction between the instant case
and that of Burnet v. Jergins Trust, 288 U. S. 508, where
the city of Long Beach, California, made an oil and gas
lease to a private party covering part of a tract owned
by the city, the proceeds of the oil and gas sales being
divided between the city and the lessee. The claim of
immunity by the lessee as an instrumentality of the State,
acting through the city, was held to be untenable.
So far as the case of Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co.,
285 U. S. 393, which was distinguished in Burnet v. Jergins Trust, supra, may be regarded as supporting a dif53383

-

- :-8 -

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

303 U. S.

ferent view, it is disapproved. See Helvering v. Mountain ProducersCorp., post, p.' 376.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals with respect to petitioner's income from the lease is affirmed.
Judgment in No. 387 reversed; in
No. 388 affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

concur in the result.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

and MR.

JUSTICE REED

took no

part in the consideration and decision of this case.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. O'DONNELL.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH

No. 406.

CIRCUIT.

Argued February 9, 10, 1938.-Decided March 7, 1938.

A shareholder in a corporation owning oil properties has no interest
in the oil and gas in place-no capital investment-which will
entitle him to an allowance for depletion under Revenue Aft of
1926, §§ 204 (c) (2), 214 (a) (9); nor, upon sale of his shares
to one who acquires the wells from the corporation, does he
acquire such depletable interest through the vendee's covenant
te. pay him a portion of the net profits from development and
operation of the properties. P. -.
90 F. 2d 907, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 676, to review the affirmance of
a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 32 B. T. A. 1277.
which overruled a deficiency income tax assessment.

Assistant Solicitor General Bell, with whom Solicitor
General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and
Messrs. Sewall Key and-A. F. Prescott Were on the brief,
for petitioner.

Mr. A. Calder Mackay, with whom Mr. Thomas R.
Dempsey was on the brief, for resppndent..

