SANTA CRUZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
444

Sylla'tus.

entitled to contest its validity in answer to the charge
against her. Smith V. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553, 562.
The* judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in fthe consideration
aI)d decision of this case.

SANTA CRUZ FRUIT PACKING CO. v. NATIONAL
LABOR RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 536.

Argued March 7, 1938.-Decided March 2S, 1938.

1. A corporation was engaged, in California, in the business of canning fruits and vegetables, raised in the State, and in disposing of
its large output locally and in interstate and foreign commerce,
37% going to destinations beyond the State, partly on f. o. b. shipment and much of it by water. The goods shipped by boat were
carried to the wharves on trucks loaded at the plant by warehousemen employed there. Many of these, upon being locked out
by the company for having joined a labor union, formed a picket
line, and this was so maintained that eventually the movement of
trucks from warehouse to wharves ceased entirely. The teamsters
refused to haul, the warehousemen at the dock warehouses declined to handle, and the stevedores between dock and ship refused to load, the company's goods. The National Labor Relations Board found that the discharge of the employees and the
refusal to reinstate them constituted an unlawful discrimination
under the National Labor Relations Act and that the acts of the
company tended to lead, and had led, to labor disputes burdening
and obstructing interstate commerce. it ordered the company to
desist from such practices, to reinstate, with back pay, the discharged employees, and to post notices, etc. Held that the case
was within the jurisdiction of the Board and that the order was
properly sustained by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Pp. 463
et seq.

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

2. Sales to purchasers in another State arc not withdrawn from
federal control because the goods are delivered f. o. b. at stated
points within the State of origin for transportation. P. 463.
3. The federal power to protect interstate commerce in commodities
does not depend upon their kind and has been applied to the
practices of manufacturers, processors and labor unions. Carter
v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, did not establish a different
principle or overrule the earlier decisions. P. 466.
4. The power of Congress to protect interstate commerce in manufactured articles from burdens and obstructions springing from
labor disputes in the factory is not dependent upon an origin
outside of the State of the raw materials used in the manufacturing process; nor is the place where the manufacturer makes his
sales a 'controlling element, if the sales in fact are in interstate
commerce. National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin
Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1. P. 464.
5. Cases respecting the state power to tax goods which have not
begun to move in interstate commerce, or have come to rest within
the State, or to adopt local police measures affecting them, do not
deal with the extent of the power of Congress over interstate commerce but are concerned with the question whether a particular
exercise of state power, in view of its nature and operation, must
be deemed to be in conflict with that paramount authority.
P. 466.
6. Where federal control is sought to be exercised over activities
which separately considered are intrastate, it must appear that
there is a close and substantial relation to interstate commerce in
order to justify the federal intervention for its protection. P. 466.
7. This principle is essential to the maintenance of our constitutional system. Id.
8. In maintaining the balance of the constitutional grants and-limitations, it is inevitable' that we should define their applications in
the gradual process of inclusion and exclusion. And what is reasonably clear in a particular application is not to be overborne by
the simple and familiar dialectic of suggesting doubtful and extreme
cases. P. 467.
9. The question whether the labor practices of an employer are practices "affecting commerce," as defined by § 2 (6) of the National
Labor Relations Act, can not be answered by mere reference to the
percentage of the product sold in interstate and foreign commerce.
The question that must be faced under the Act upon particular
facts is whether the unfair labor practices involved have such a

SANTA CRUZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
453

455

Argument for Petitioner.

close and substantial relation to the freedom of interstate commerce from injurious restraint that these practices may constitutionally be made the subject of federal cognizance through provisions looking to the peaceable adjustment of labor disputes. P. 467.
91 F. 2d 790, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 680, to review the affirmance of a
judgment affirming in part an order of the National Labor
Relations Board.
Mr. J. Paul St. Sure for petitioner.
Where there has bcen no antecedent movement of the
raw products in commerce, the business of canning, labeling, packing, storing and loading of fruit and vegetables
produced wholly in California is not "in commerce." A
labor dispute therein cannot burden or obstruct a commerce which has not begun. Therefore the National
Labor Relations Act does not apply and the Board had
no jurisdiction. Carterv. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238;
Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495;
Veazie v. Moor, 14 How. 568; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.
517; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Chassaniolv. Greenwood, 291 U. S. 584; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260
U. S. 245; Oliver Mining Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172;
Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165; Lehigh
Valley R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 145 U. S. 192.
Where small quantities of a raw product are shipped
into the State for canning and sale to local trade in
California, the National Labor Relations Act does not
apply for the reason that commerce in such product has
ended, and the canning and subsequent handling are
local affairs; and labor disputes in such affairs do not
directly burden or obstruct commerce. Schechter Poultry
Corp. v. United States, supra; East Ohio Gas Co. v. Tax
Commission, 283 U. S. 465; Public Utilities Comm'n v.
Landon, 249 U. S. 236; Atlantic Coast Line v. Standard

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Petitioner.

303 U. S.

Oil Co., 275 U. S. 257; Industrial Assn. of San Francisco
v. UnitedStates, 268 U. S. 64.
Unless this Court is willing to go so far as to say
that the power of Congress extends over all labor disputes involving production industries, the Board did
not have jurisdiction in this case, for the reason that the
constitutional power of Congress cannot be made to depend on the intention of the producer to sell its product in interstate or foreign commerce, or the fortuitous
circum9tance that he may ultimately sell a part of such
product outside the State wherein it is produced. Kidd
v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Champlin Refining Co. v. Corporation Commission, 286 U. S. 210; Federal Compress
& W. Co. v. McLean, 291\U. S. 17; Oliver Mining -Co. v.
Lord, supra; Chassaniol v. Greenwood, supra; Heisler v.
Thomas Colliery Co., supra; Arkadelphia Milling Co. v.
St. Louis S. W. R. Co., 249 U. S. 134; Carter v. Carter
Coal Co., supra.
The .designation of petitioner's produce as "hot cargo"
by the International Longshoremen's Association and the
refusal of such association to handle such product was
an unlawful conspiracy in violation of the Federal AntiTrust Act and a violation of the Sloss Arbitration Award;
and any burden or obstruction to commerce resulting
therefrom is indirect and remote and does not extend the
power of Congress or the jurisdiction of the Board over
petitioner's production business. Bedford Cut Stone Co.
v. Journeymen S. C. Assn., 274 U. S. 37; Duplex Printing Press Co, v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443; Coronado Coal
Co. V. United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295; Lowe v.
Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Anderson v. Ship Owners Assn.,
272 U. S. 359; Local 167 I. B. T. v. United States, 291
U. S. 293.
The instant case ig not in any respect comparable to the
cases wherein this Court had held that by reason of the

SANTA CRUZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
453

457

Argument for Respondent.

effects or burdens on interstate commerce the power of
Congress extends to the regulation of intrastate affairs.
Rate Cases: Houston E. & W. T. R. Co. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 342; Floridav. United States, 282 U. S.
194; Railroad Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co.,
257 U. S. 563.
Board of Trade and Stockyards Cases: Board of Trade
v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44; Swift
& Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; Stafford v. Wallace,
258 U. S. 495; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States,
280 U. S.420.
Railway Appliance, Employers' Liability, and Railway
Labor Cases: Southern R. Co. v. United States, 222 U. S.
20; Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 221 U. S. 612; Mondou v. New York, N. H. &
H. R. Co., (Second Employers' Liability Cases), 223 U. S.
1; Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhood of R. & S. S.
Clerks, 281 U. S. 548; VirginianR. Co. v. System Federation No. 40, 300 U. S. 515.
Anti-Trust Cases: Standard Oil Co. v. United States,
221 U. S. 1; United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221
U. S. 106; Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States,
175 U. S.211.
Mr. Charles Fahy, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Solicitor General Bell, and Messrs. Robert L.
Stern, Robert B. Watts, Laurence A. Knapp and Philip
Levy were on the brief, for respondent.
Petitioner is engaged in canning, packing, and shipping
fruit and vegetables in Oakland, California. It is the
fourth or fifth in size of such canneries in that State,
which is the center of the canning industry in the United
States; and annually ships large quantities of its products in interstate and foreign commerce. Stoppage of
operations as a result of industrial strife in petitioner's
plant would directly obstruct the movement of those

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Respondent.

303 U.S.

commodities in interstate and foreign commerce. There
thus exists a "close and intimate" relation between petitioner's operations and the flow of commerce; and the
National Labor Relations Act accordingly may validly be
applied to petitioner's plant. National Labor Relations
Board v.. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U. S.
1, 41.
1. This conclusion is not affected by the fact that the
products processed by petitioner are grown in California.
In the Jones & Laughlin case the Court expressly stated
that its decision did not turn on the conception that the
manufacturing process was carried on in a "stream" or
"flow" of commerce, wherein the raw materials arriving
from without the State came to rest temporarily at the
plant and later went forward again in interstate commerce (301 U. S. at 36). The contention that the stream
of commerce had been broken, the Court held was not
relevant to the issue involved (301 U. S. at 41). The
determinative factor was the obstructing effect of industrial strife upon the interstate movement of goods.
Carterv. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, does not support
petitioner's contention. The Carterdecision did not purport to rest on the difference between mining operations
and manufacturing enterprises which utilize raw materials
obtained through the channels of interstate commerce.
Nor did this Court in the Jones & Laughlin case, in holding that the Carter case was not controlling, suggest that
it was to be distinguished upon such a ground. The danger
of an obstruction to interstate commerce, and the appropriateness of the means adopted by the Congress to
remove it, were the decisive factors in each decision.
The Jones & Laughlin decision establishes that the
Congress has power to prevent the obstruction to interstate commerce caused by the unfair labor practices condemned in the present Act. Neither the fact nor the
degree of obstruction to commerce in manufactured prod-

SANTA CRUZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
453

459

Argument for Respondent.

ucts can in reason depend upon the place of origin of'the
raw materials. As this Court stated in the Jones & Laughlin case, Congressional authority over interstate commerce
extends to the protection of such commerce "no matter
what the source of the dangers which threaten it" (301
U. S. at 36-37). No distinction can properly be drawn
between activities which obstruct interstate commerce
in raw materials, in manufactured products, or both.
The geographic fact of concentration of natural resources in particular regions, far from lessening national
concern in the industries immediately dependent upon
those resources, heightens it. It does so none the less
because of the natural, if not necessary, circumstance of
the location of such industries at the point of concentration of the resources. The view which petitioner urges
would frustrate one of the great purposes of the commerce
power as realized in this statute, by removing from the
reach of Congressional protection industries whose operations in interstate and foreign commerce are of vital importance to the national welfare and whose interruption or
cessation by industrial strife would create problems of
the deepest national concern.
2. Approximately 37 per cent. of the product of petitioner's plant is shipped in interstate or foreign commerce.
The same employees prepare and ship both the goods
which go to points outside California and those which do
not. No separation of the employees into those working
on goods destined for interstate shipment and those working on goods to be consumed in California is possible.
Congress has power to regulate both interstate and intrastate activities when they are inseparably intermingled
in this way. Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342. The suggestion that the power of Congress over such intermingled
transactions disappears if more than 50 per cent. of the
transactions are intrastate would establish an arbitrary
and impractical rule of thumb in violation of the funda-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U.S.

mental principle of the supremacy of federal power. A
review of the decisions in which this Court has sustained
federal regulation of intrastate activities because of their
deleterious effects upon commerce demonstrates that the
validity of such legislation has never turned upon whether
the interstate commerce affected was greater in quantity
than the intrastate transactions which were necessarily
subjected also -to the regulation imposed. Clearly, protection to interstate commerce need not be withheld
because in affording that protection intrastate commerce
is also safeguarded.
By leave of Court, Messrs. H. TV. O'Melveny, Walter
K. Tuller, and Louis TV. Myers filed a brief as amici
curiae, supporting petitioner.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGI-iEs

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The National Labor Relations Board on April 2, 1936.
after hearing, found that petitioner, Santa Cruz Fruit
Packing Company, a California corporation, had been engaged in unfair labor practices affecting commerce within
the meaning of § 8, subdivisions (1) and (3) and § 2, subdivisions (6) and (7) of the National Labor Relations Act,
and ordered petitioner to desist from such practices, to
reinstate with back pay certain employees who had been
discharged, and to post appropriate notices. 1 N. L. R. B.
454. Upon petition of the Board, the Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed the order so far as it related to petitioner's employees at its Oakland plant. 91 F. (2d) 790. In
view of the importance of the question with respect to
the application of the National Labor Relations Act, this
Court granted certiorari.
There is no dispute as to the pertinent facts. The findings of the Board, supported by evidence, show the
following:
Petitioner is engaged at its plant at Oakland in canning,
packing and shipping fruit and vegetables, the bulk of

SANTA CRUZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
453

Opinion of the Court.

which are grown in that State. During the "peak" season,
petitioner employs from 1200 to 1500 persons of whom
about 30 hre warehousemen. The total "pack" in the year
1935 amounted to about 1,699,270 cases. Of this amount
about 37 per cent. were shipped in interstate or foreign
commerce, 9.02 per cent. being sent to foreign countries and approximately 473,620 cases, or about 27.89
per cent. to various points -in the United States outside
California. The sales to purchasers outside the State Were
under either f. o. b. or c. i. f. San Francisco Bay Point
contracts.
The methods of transportation are by 'water, rail and
truck. Export shipments go by water and this is also the
chief sort of carriage to points within the United States
outside California, about 20 per cent. being shipped by
rail and an undetermined amount by truck directly to the
point of destination.- "There is a constant stream of loading and shipping of products" out of petitioner's plants
throughout the entire year. From 3,000 to 4,000 cases
are loaded daily in the various vehicles of conveyance.
That loading is a substantial and regular part of the
work of the, warehousemen in petitioner's employ. When
the shipments are by rail or overland trucks, these employees load directly into the equipment of the principal
carriers. When shipments are by boat, the warehousemen
load the cases into the trucks which carry the goods to the
docks.
Weighers, Warehousemen and Cereal Workers Local
38-44, International Longshoremen's Association, is a
labor organization affiliated with the American Fedpration of Labor. Its efforts to organize the Oakland plant
were begun in July, 1935, and many of the permanent
warehousemen made application for membership. When
this came to .the attention of petitioner early in August,
the General Manager announced that he would not permit
a union in the plant because of competitive conditions.
On thefr return from a union meeting at which the men

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

were to be initiated, members of the night shift were prevented from entering the plant and the next morning the
members of the day crew were similarly excluded. A
picket line then formed, on the morning of August 8th,
was maintained until September 27th with such effectiveness that eventually the movement of trucks from warehouses to wharves ceased entirely. The Board found:
"The teamsters refused to haul Santa Cruz merchandise;
the warehousemen at the dock warehouses who ordinarily
unload the canned goods from the cars prior to their reloading into the ships, since they were members of the
same union as the Santa Cruz warehousemen, also declined
to handle Santa Cruz cargo. As members of the sister
union, I. L. A. 38-79, the stevedores who move the goods
from dock to ship also refused to move Santa Cruz cargo
both at the East Bay and San Francisco docks during tl~e
entire period that the picket line was maintained. Other
unions whose members refused to move 'hot' Santa Cruz
cargo were those members of the Sailors who comprised
the crews of steam schooners and whose duties include the
handling of cargo." Petitioner points out that the refusal of the other unions to handle petitioner's goods was
a violation of an arbitration award made in October, 1934,
following the San Francisco maritime strike of that year.
. The Board found that interference with the activities
of employees in forming or joining labor organizations
results in strikes and industrial unrest which habitually
have had the effect in the canning industry of impeding
the movement of canned products in interstate and foreign commerce. Reference was made to official statistics
of the United States Department of Labor in relation to
the canning and preserving industries from which it appeared that of the fifteen strikes and lockouts in 1934,
and the first six months of 1935, eight were the outcome
of difficulties in regard to union recognition and discrimi-

SANTA CRUZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD
453

Opinion of the Court.

nation for union activities, 7,484 workers being involved
in those stoppages.
The Board concluded that the discharge of the employees named and the refusal to reinstate them constituted an unlawful discrimination under the National
Labor Relations Act and that the acts of petitioner had
led and tended to lead to labor disputes burdening and
obstructing commerce.
Petitioner contends that the manufacturing and processing in which petitioner is engaged are local activities
and that the Board was without jurisdiction over the labor
dispute involved in this case.
First. There is no question that petitioner was directly
and largely engaged in interstate and foreign commerce.
We have often decided that sales to purchasers in another State are not withdrawn from federal control because the goods are delivered f. o. b. at stated points
within the State of origin for transportation. See Savage
v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 520; Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v.
Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111, 114, 122; Pennsylvania
R. Co. v. Clark Bros. Coal Mining Co., 238 U. S. 456,
465-468. A large part of the interstate commerce of the
country is conducted upon that basis and the arrangements that are made between seller and purchaser with
respect to the place of taking title to the commodity, or
as to the payment of freight, where the actual movement
is interstate, do not affect either the power of Congress
or the jurisdiction of the agencies which Congress has
established. Pennsylvania .R. Co. v. Clark Bros. Coal
Mining Co., supra.
Second. The power of Congress extends not only to the
making of rules governing sales of petitioner's products
in interstate commerce, as, for example, with respect to
misbranding under the Federal Food and Drugs Act (21.
U. S. C., §§ 1 to 26), or with respect to forbidden dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S

criminations in prices under the Clayton Act (15 U. S. C.
13), but also to the protection of that interstate commerce from burdens, obstructions and interruptions, whatever may be their source. Second Employers' Liability
Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 51. The close and intimate effect
which brings the subject within the reach of federal power
may be due to activities in relation to productive industry, although that industry when separately viewed is
local. It is upon this well-established principle that the
constitutional validity of the National Labor Relations
Act has been sustained. National Labor Relations Board
v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 38.
Petitioner urges that the principle is inapplicable here
as the fruits and vegetables which petitioner prepares for
shipment are grown in California and petitioner's operations are confined to that State. It is not a case where
the raw materials of production are brought into the
State of manufacture and the manufactured product is
handled by the manufacturer in other States. In view
of the interstate commerce actually carried on by petitioner, the conclusion sought to be drawn from this distinction is without merit. The existence of a continuous
flow of interstate commerce through the State may indeed
readily show the intimate relation of particular transactions to that commerce. Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S.
495, 516; Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1,
33. But, as we said in the Jones & Laughlin case, the
instances in which the metaphor of a "stream of commerce" has been used are but particular, and not exclusive, illustrations of the protective power which Congress
may exercise. "The congressional authority to protect
interstate commerce from burdens and obstructions is not
limited to transactions which can be deemed to be an
essential part of a 'flow' of interstate or foreign commerce. Burdens and obstructions may be due to injurious actions springing from other sources." Id., p. 36.

SANTA CRUZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
453

Opinion of the Court.

Such injurious action burdening and obstructing interstate trade in manufactured articles may spring from
labor disputes irrespective of the origin of the materials
used in the manufacturing process. And the place where
the manufacturer makes his sales is not controlling if
the sales in fact are in interstate commerce. A few illustrations, from our many decisions, will suffice. In Loewe
v. Lawlor [1908], 208 U. S. 274, 302, the conspiracy of the
"United Hatters," to compel the plaintiffs to unionize
their factory, was held to fall within the Federal AntiTrust Act because it was aimed at the destruction of the
interstate trade in the manufactured hats. In United
Mine Workers v. Coronado Co. [1922], 259 U. S. 344, 407,
408, the Court said that "Coal mining is not interstate commerce and the power of Congress does not extend to its
regulation as such," but that "if Congress deems certain
recurring practices, though not really part of interstate
commerce, likely to obstruct, restrain or burden it, it has
the power to subject them to national supervision and
restraint." And in the second Coronado case [1925], 268
U. S. 295, 310, the Court held that the evidence was adequate to show that the purpose was to stop the production
of non-union coal and prevent its shipment to markets of
other States, and that a combination to that end would
constitute a direct violation of the Anti-Trust Act. Another illustration is found in Bedford Cut Stone Co. v.
Journeymen Stone Cutters' Assn. [ 1927], 274 U. S. 37, 48,
where a conspiracy of stone cutters was held to have "the
immediate purpose and necessary effect of restraining
future sales and shipments in interstate commerce" of the
building stone which was quarried at petitioner's plants.
With respect to the federal power to protect interstate
commerce in the commodities produced, there is obviously
no difference between coal mined, or stone quarried, and
fruit and vegetables grown. The same principle must
apply, and has been applied, to injurious restraints of

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

interstate trade which are caused by the practices of manufacturers and processors. Standard Oil Co. v. United
States, 221 U. S. 1; United States v. American Tobacco
Co., 221 U. S. 106. The case of Carterv. Carter Coal Co.,
298 U. S. 238, did not establish a different principle or
overrule the decisions which we have cited. See National
Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp.,
supra, p. 41. Nor are the cases in point which are cited
by petitioner with respect to the exercise of the power of
the State to tax goods, which have not begun to move in
interstate commerce or have come to rest within the State,
or to adopt police measures as to local matters. In that
class of cases the question is not with respect to the extent
of the power of Congress to protect interstate commerce,
but whether a particular exercise of state power in view of
its nature and operation must be deemed to be in conflict
with that paramount authority. Bacon v. Illinois, 227
U. S. 504, 516; Stafford v. Wallace, supra,p. 526; Minnesota v. Blasius, 290 U. S. 1, 8.
Third. It is also clear that where federal control is
sought to be exercised over activities which separately
considered are intrastate, it must appear that there is a
close and substantial relation to interstate commerce in
order to justify the federal intervention for its protection.
However difficult in application, this principle is essential
to the maintenance of our constitutional system. The
subject of federal power is still "commerce," and not all
commerce but commerce with foreign nations and among
the several States. The expansion of enterprise has vastly
increased the interests of interstate commerce but the
constitutional differentiation still obtains. Schechter
Corporation v. United States, 295 U. S. 495, 546. "Activities local in their immediacy do not become interstate
and national because of distant repercussions?' Id.,
p. 554.
To express this essential distinction, "direct" has been
contrasted with "indirect," and what is "remote" or "dis-

SANTA CRUZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
453

467

Opinion of the Court.

tant" with what is "close and substantial." Whatever
terminology is used, the criterion is necessarily one of degree and must be so defined. This does not satisfy those
who seek for mathematical or rigid formulas. But such
formulas are not provided by the great concepts of the
Constitution such as "interstate commerce," "due process," "equal protection." In maintaining the balance of
the constitutional grants and limitations, it is inevitable
that we should define their applications in the gradual
process of inclusion and exclusion.
There is thus no point in the instant case in a demand
for the drawing of a mathematical line. And what is reasonably clear in a particular application is not to be overborne by the simple and familiar dialectic of suggesting
doubtful and extreme cases. The critical words of the
provision of the National Labor Relations Act in dealing
with the described labor practices are "affecting commerce," as defined. § 2 (6). It is plain that the provision
cannot be applied by a mere reference to percentages and
the fact that petitioner's sales in interstate and foreign
commerce amounted to 37 per cent., and not to more than
50 per cent., of its production cannot be deemed controlling. The question that must be faced under the Act
upon particular facts is whether the unfair labor practices
involved have such a: close and substantial relation to
the freedom of interstate commerce from injurious restraint that these practices may constitutionally be made
the subject of federal cognizance through provisions looking to the peaceable adjustment of labor disputes.
The question of degree is constantly met in other relations. It is met whenever the Interstate Commerce Commission is required to find whether an intrastate rate or
practice of an interstate carrier causes an undue and
unreasonable discrimination against interstate or foreign
commerce. 49 U. S. C. § 13(4). The Shreveport Case,
234 U. S. 342, 351. It is met under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, where the question is whether the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U.S.

employee's occupation at the time of his injury is "in
interstate transportation or work so closely related to
such transportation as to be practically a part of it."
Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Bolle, 284 U. S. 74, 78, 79;
New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Bezue, 284 U. S. 415,
420. It is met in the enforcement of the Clayton Act
in determining whether the effect of the described provisions in contracts for the sale of commodities is "to substantially lessen competition." 15 U. S. C., 13, 14. Standard Fashion Co. v. Magrane-Houston Co., 258 U. S. 346,
356, 357; Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raladam Co., 283
U. S. 643, 647, 648.
Such questions cannot be escaped by the adoption of
any artificial rule.
Fourth. The direct relation of the labor practices and
the resulting labor dispute in the instant case to interstate
commerce and the injurious effect upon that commerce
are fully established. The warehousemen in question
were employed by petitioner in loading its goods either
into the ears of carriers or into the trucks which transported the goods to the docks for shipment abroad or
to other States. The immediacy of the effect of the forbidden discrimination against these warehousemen is
strikingly shown by the findings of the Board. When
the men found themselves locked out because of their
joining the unfion, they at once formed a picket line and
this was maintained with such effectiveness that eventually "the movement of trucks from warehouse to wharv.es
ceased entirely." The teamsters refused to haul, the
warehousemen at the dock warehouses declined to handle, and the stevedores between dock and ship refused
to load, petitioner's goods. These became, in-the parlance
of the men, "hot" cargo. Petitioner .says that this wasan unlawful conspiracy of those sympathizing with its
discharged warehousemen, but' it was the discrimination against them which led .directly to the interference•

SANTA CRUZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
453

BULEr.EH, J., disscnfing.

with the movement from the plant and elicited the sup-.
port so effectively given.
It would be difficult to find a case in which unfair labor
practices had a more direct effect upon interstate and
foreign commerce.
The relief afforded by-the Board, in requiring petitioner
to desist from the unfair labor practices condemned by
the Act and to reinstate the discharged employees with.
back pay, was properly sustained by the Circuit Court of
4kppeals, and its order is affirmed.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration and decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, dissenting.

Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, decided that
Congress lacks power to regulate terms and conditions of
employment of those engaged in local production of commodities sold and about to be shipped in interstate commerce. The circuit court of appeals found two questions for solution. One was whether upon that point the
Carter case, in 1936, has been overruled by our decision
in 1937 in Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin, 301 U. S.
1. The second was whether the power extends to cases
where only 39% of goods locally produced are shipped in
interstate commerce. The court, one judge dissenting,
upheld the order. Each of the judges wrote an opinion;
two held this Court has ovdrruled the Carter case.
If the decision of the Carter case upon the point stated
stands, the Board's order cannot be upheld. The lower
court made its decision depend upon that question. Save
authoritatively to decide it here, there was no reason
for granting the writ. But the opinion just announced
does not refer to the question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Buimi, J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

In the Jones & Laughlin and companion cases, four dissenting Justices thought the Court thendeparted from
well-established principles followed in the Cartercase and
quoted (p. 96) a passage from it expounding what it
meant by "direct" effect on interstate commerce as distinguished from what is "indirect." And the dissenting
opinion insisted (p. 97) that, under the Carter decision,
the facts in those cases did not disclose any direct effect
upon interstate commerce, and said: "A more remote and
indirect interference -with interstate commerce or a more
definite invasion of the powers reserved to the states is
difficult, if not impossible, to imagine."
But the dissent failed to elicit from the Court any stateinent as to whether it meant to overrule the Carter case.
The opinion does not discuss that case. It does, however,
contain the following (p. 41): "In the Carter case... the
Court was of the opinion that the provisions of the statute relating to production were invalid upon several
grounds,-that there was improper delegation of legislative power, and that the requirements not only went beyond any sustainable measure of protection of interstate
commerce but were also inconsistent with due process.
These [meaning the Schechter and Carter] cases are not
controlling here." The later decisions of this Court involving the power of Congress to deal with labor relations in local production do not refer to the Carter case.
At least until this Court definitely overrules that decision, it should be followed.
Upon the authority of that case, I would reverse the
order of the circuit court of appeals on the ground that,
as applied here, the Act is unconstitutional.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in this opinion.

