OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

ings relating to the preparation of the record on appeal."
The appellate court, in the exercise of its sound discretion,
has authority to provide for the correction of any miscarriage of justice in connection with any action of the trial
judge relating to the settlement and filing of a bill of
exceptions.
As the Circuit Court of Appeals may have proceeded
in this case upon the assumption that it had no power to
approve the settlement and filing of the bill of exceptions and to pass upon the rulings it disclosed, its judgment will be vacated and the cause will be remanded so
that the appellate court may be free to exercise its
discretion in that relation.
Judgment vacated.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

BRADY v. TERMINAL RAILROAD ASSOCIATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 163.

Argued January 4, 5, 1938.-Decided January 31, 1938.

The defendant carrier hauled a string of freight cars over its own
line and left them on the receiving track of a connecting carrier,
where they then stood temporarily whilst being inspected by an
employee of the connecting carrier to detcrmine whether they
should be accepted by the latter for further transportation. Due
to a defectively attached grab-iron, the employee fell from one
of the cars and was injured. Both carriers were engaged in
interstate commerce. Held that the defendant carrier was liable
under the Federal Safety Appliance Act.
1. The defective car was "in use," within the meaning of the
statute. P. 13.
2. The responsibility of the defendant carrier, which had brought
the car, was not ended, since the other carrier had not ac'cepted
it nor assumed control. P. 13.
3. The duty of the defendant carrier under the Act extended
to the person injured, although he was not its employee. P. 14.

BRADY v. TERMINAL R. R. ASSN.
10

Opinion of the Court.

4. A railroad employee is not denied the protection of the Act
because his work is that of inspection for the purpose of discovering defects, including defects in the appliances prescribed. P. 14.
The duty imposed is absolute and the Act expressly excludes
the defense of assumption of risk.
340 Mo. 841; 102 S. W. (2d) 903, reversed.
CERTIoRARI, 302 U. S. 678, to review the reversal of a
judgment recovered by the present petitioner in an action
for personal injuries.

Mr. Mark D. Eagleton, with whom Messrs. Merritt U.
Hayden and Roberts P. Elam were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Walter N. Davis, with whom Messrs. Thomas M.
Pierce and Joseph L. Howell were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Supreme Court of Missouri reversed a judgment
which petitioner had recovered under the Federal Safety
Appliance Act, 340 Mo. 841; 102 S. W. (2d) 903, and
rendered a final judgment in favor of respondent. See
State v. Ragland, 339 Mo. 452, 456, 458; 97 S. W. (2d)
113. In view of the importance of the question in the
administration of the federal statute, this Court granted
certiorari.
Petitioner was employed by the Wabash Railway Company as a car inspector in its yard at Granite City, Illinois. He was injured in November, 1927, while inspecting a car which was one of a string of cars brought by the
respondent, Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis,
from St. Louis to Granite City and placed upon a track
of the Wabash known as a "receiving" or "inbound"
track. The purpose of the inspection was to determine
whether the cars were to be accepted by the Wabash.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Both the Wabash and the Terminal companies were carriers engaged in interstate commerce.
. While making his inspection petitioner stood upon one
of the side ladders of the car, and, in attempting to pull
himself to the top of the car, petitioner took hold of a
grabiron which, with the board to which it was attached,
became loose, causing him to fall. The board was found
to have "become rotten from end to end on the under
side, and to some extent on the upper side around the
bolts by which the grabiron was attached to it."
Petitioner first sued his employer, the Wabash, under
the provisions of the Federal Safety Appliance Act, but
a judgment in his favor was reversed upon the ground
that the car had not yet been accepted by the Wabash
Company which therefore had not hauled or used, it, or
permitted it to be hauled or used, within the prohibition
of the statute. Brady v. Wabash Ry. Co., 329 Mo. 1123;
49 S. W. (2d) 24. While that suit was pending, petitioner brought the present suit against respondent.
The federal statute, Act of April 14, 1910, c. 160, ยง 2,
36 Stat. 298, 45 U. S. C. 11, provides that
"it shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject
to the provisions of this Act to haul, or permit to be
hauled or used on its line any car subject to the provisions
of this Act not equipped with appliances provided for in
this Act, to wit: All cars must be equipped with secure
sill steps and efficient hand brakes; all cars requiring secure ladders and secure running boards shall be equipped
with such ladders and running boards, and all cars having ladders shall also be equipped with secure hand holds
or grab irons on their roofs at the tops of such ladders:"
The Act of 1910 supplemented the provisions of the Act
of March 2, 1893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 532, 45 U. S. C. 7, which
provided in ยง 8:
"Any employee of any common carrier engaged in interstate commerce by railroad who may be injured by any
locomotive, car, or train in use contrary to the provision

BRADY v. TERMINAL R. R. ASSN.
10

Opinion of the Court.

of this chapter shall not be deemed thereby to have assumed the risk thereby occasioned, although continuing
in the employment of such carrier after the unlawful use
of such locomotive, car, or train had been brought to his
knowledge."
See, also, Federal Employers' Liability Act, 35 Stat. 65,
c. 149, ยง 4, 45 U. S. C. 54.
The first question is whether the car can be said to have
been in use by the respondent at the time in question.
The statute gives no ground for holding that it was the
intent of Congress that in a situation such as is here presented neither the Wabash nor the Terminal Association
should be subject to the statutory duty. The "use, movement or hauling of the defective car," within the meaning
of the statute, had not ended when petitioner sustained
his injuries. Chicago Great Western R. Co. v. Schendel,
267 U. S.287, 291, 292. The car had been brought into
the yard at Granite City and placed on a receiving track
temporarily pending the continuance of transportation.
If not found to be defective, it would proceed to destination; if found defective, it would be subject to removal
for repairs. It is not a case where a defective car has
reached a place of repair. See Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.
Hooven, 297 Fed. 919, 921, 923; New York, C. & St. L.
R. Co. v. Kelly, 70 F. (2d) 548, 551. The car in this instance had not been withdrawn from use. Johnson v.
Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1, 21, 22; Delk v. St.
Louis & San Francisco R. Co., 220 U. S. 580, 584-586;
Great Northern Railway Co. v. Otos, 239 U. S.349, 351;
Chicago Great Western R. Co. v. Schendel, supra. The
car was still in use, though motionless. Minneapolis, St.
P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co. v. Goneau, 269 U. S.406. In view
of that use, either the Terminal Association or the Wabash was subject to the obligation imposed by the statute.
The question then is whether the responsibility of the
Terminal Association, which brought in the car, had
ended. We think that question is answered by the un-

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

disputed fact that it was placed by the Terminal Association on the receiving track to await inspection and
acceptance by the Wabash.
The Wabash had not accepted it. The jury, which
found for petitioner, were instructed that as a condition
of that verdict it was necessary for them to find that
petitioner "was required to go upon said car for the purpose of inspecting the equipment thereon and of accepting or rejecting said car on behalf of his employer, the
Wabash Railway Company." We cannot agree with the
view, expressed in the opinion of the state court in reversing the judgment, that "granted that the cars were
still (in the legal sense) in the possession of the Terminal," it might still be held that "the right of control"
had passed to the Wabash. As the Wabash had not
accepted the car, the Wabash had not assumed control
and petitioner was examining the car in order to determine
whether the Wabash should assume control.
As the car had not been withdrawn from use and was
still in the possession of the Terminal Association, its
statutory obligation continued and the question is
whether that duty was owing to petitioner. The fact
that petitioner was not an employee of the Terminal
Association did not necessarily absolve it from duty to
him. We have said that "the nature of the duty imposed
by the statute and the benefits resulting from its performance" usually determine what persons are entitled
to invoke its protection. It was in this. view that we
held that the power brakes required by the Safety Appliance Act were not only for the safety of railway employees and passengers on trains but also of travelers on
the highways at railway crossings. Fairport R. Co. v.
Meredith, 292 U. S. 589, 596, 597. In the instant case,
petitioner in the course of his duty would have occasion
to go upon the car and use the grabiron, and accordingly
the benefit of the statute would extend to him, although

BRADY v. TERMINAL R. R. ASSN.
10

Opinion of the Court.

he was not employed by the carrier holding the car in
use, unless he was outside the scope of the statute because of the special character of his work. His work
was that of inspection to discover defects of the sort here
found to exist as well as others.
This final question must be determined in the light of
the nature of the obligation resting upon the carrier in
relation to the use of a defective car. The statutory liability is not based upon the carrier's negligence. The duty
imposed is an absolute one and the carrier is not excused
by any showing of care however assiduous. St. Louis, I. M.
& S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 295; Chicago,B. & Q.
Ry. Co. v. United States, 220 U. S. 559, 570; Louisville &
Nashville R. Co. v. Layton, 243 U. S. 617, 620, 621;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Otos, supra. The breadth of
the statutory requirements is shown by the fact that it
embraces all locomotives, cars and similar vehicles used
on any railway that is a highway of interstate commerce
and is not confined exclusively to vehicles engaged in
such commerce. Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 222
U. S. 20. Laying down this comprehensive rule as a
matter of public policy, Congress has made no exception
of those employed in inspecting cars. The statute has
been liberally construed "so as to give a right of recovery
for every injury the proximate cause of which was a failure to comply with a requirement of the Act." Swinson
v. Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 529, 531.,
In Davis v. Wolfe, 263 U. S. 239, 243, reviewing the
earlier cases, the Court held that one can recover "if the
failure to comply with the requirements of the act is a
proximate cause of the accident, resulting in injury to
him while in the discharge of his duty, although not
engaged in an operation in which the safety appliances
are specifically designed to furnish him protection." Even
where the required equipment is known to have become
defective and the car is being hauled to the nearest avail-

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

able point for repairs, while the Act relieves the carrier in
such a case from the prescribed penalties, the carrier still
remains subject by the express terms of the statute to
civil liability for injuries sustained by "any railroad employee" in the course of such a movement by reason of
the defective equipment. Act of April 14, 1910, c. 160,
ยง 4, 36 Stat. 29(; 45 U. S. C. 13. See New York, C. &
St. L. R. Co. v. Kelly, supra.
We think that these considerations require the conclusion that one is not to be denied the benefit of the
Act because his work was that of inspection for the purpose of discovering defects. As we said in Louisville &
Nashville R. Co. v. Layton, supra, the liability "springs
from its being made unlawful to use cars not equipped
as required,-not from the position the employee may
be in or the work which he may be doing at the moment
when he is injured," provided the defective equipment
is the proximate cause of the injury.
The fact that petitioner was looking for defects of the
sort which caused his injury does not prevent recovery
as the statute expressly excludes the defense of assumption of risk. 45 U. S. C. 7, 54.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

