UNITE)
403

STATES ?:. O'DONNELL.
syl:11l11,.

the partnership" substituted. See 11. R. 12863, 65th
Cong., 3rd Sess. (Conmit tee Print-As Agreed to in Conference). The anendnent was obviously inconsistent
with any purpose to limit the amount of the taxable income to that of any single or particular accounting period
of the partnership ending within the partner's taxable
year. The phrase was changed by ยง 182 (a) of the
Revenue Act of 1928 to its present form, "any taxable
year of the partnership." The continued use of the word
"any" as qualifying the phrase "taxable year" in the
1928 and 1932 Acts, does not preclude the present tax if
"taxable year" be taken to mean a partnership accounting period of less than twelve months. Reasons have
already been given why, if it means an accounting period
of a full year, the present tax is nevertheless due under
ยง 41 and the first sentence of . 182 (a).
A ffrmed.
JusTICE ROBERTS
nIr,.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and
are of opinion that the judgment should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. O'DONNELL ET

AL.

CERTIORARI TO TIIE CIRCUIT COURT Ol APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 4S7.

Argued March 1, 2, 193.-Decided March 2-S, 1938.

In a suit to quiet its title to a part of Marc Island in San Francisco
Bay, within the territory acquired from Mexico by the Treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, the United States claimed under a deed to it in
1853 by Bissell and Aspinwall, who derived their title through a
grant in 1841 by Alvarado, Mexican Governor of California, to
Castro. Respondents claimed under a patent issued by California
to Darlington in 1857, purporting to convey the land in question
as a part of the swamp ot overflowed lads granted to the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

:303 U. S.

by the Swamp Lands Act of 1850. The Board of Land Comimissioners, created by the Mexican Claims Act of IS51, had confirmed
the title of Bissell and Aspinwall in 1855. On appeal, the District
Court had affirmed in 1857, although its decree was unsigned until
1930 when a nunc pro tune decree was entered. While the proceedings before the Board were pending Bissell and Aspinwall had
conveyed by deed to the United States. Held:
1. This Court accepts a concurrent finding by the District Court
and the Circuit Court of Appeals that the lands in question were
within the description of the deed to Castro. P. 508.
2. An adjudication in a mandamus proceeding brought by the
respondents, that it was the duty of the Secretary of the Interior,
under the Swamp Lands Act and the Act of July 23, 1866, to issue
a patent of the lands here involved to California, and the issuance
of it, are not decisive of any issue in this suit, and it is opeh to the
United States to show that the lands did not pass under the
Swamp Lands Act.
P. 508.
3. The effect of the Swamp Lands Act was to invest the State
in, praesenti with an inchoate title to those lands falling within the
description of the Act, to be perfected as of the date of the Act
when the land should be identified and the patent issued. It did
not include lands which the Government had not acquired, nor did
it free any of them of obligations to which they were subject when
it was passed. P. 509.
4. Swamp lands in California, being a part of the territory annexed by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, were subject to all
obligations imposed upon the United States with respect to them
under the principles of international law by reason of the annexation, and by treaty obligations. P. 510.
5. The obligations assumed by the United States in respect of
the territory' annexed by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo antedated and were superior to any rights derived from the United
States under the Swamp Lands Act. P. 511.
6. Claimants under the United States by virtue of statutes disposing of its public lands in California, are not "third persons"
within the meaning of the Mexican Claims Act; and confirmation
under that Act of claims under Mexican grants is conclusive upon
all claiming under the United States. P. 512.
7. Confirmation of titles under the Mexican Claims Act is as
effective and conclusive upon patents under the Swamp Lands Act
as if made at the date of the Treaty. P. 513.

UNITED STATES v. O'DONNELL.

503

Opinion of the Court.

501

8. The decree of the Board of Land Commissioners confirming
the title of Bissell and Aspinwall became final and conclusive within
the provisions of the Mexican Claims Act, irrespective of the validity of the District Court's decree of affirmance. P. 513.
9. Proceedings under the Mexican Claims Act were not required
to be adversary, and that they were not does not affect the validity
of a determination by the Board. P. 524.
10. The acquisition by the United States of the title of Bissell
and Aspinwall, while their claim was pending before the Board of
Land Commissioners, did not involve, by reason of the State's
interest under the Swamp Lands Act, any breach of equitable duty
to California. Pp. 514 et seq.
11. There is no basis in the record for the conclusion that confirmation of the Bissell and Aspinwall claim by the Board of Land
Commissioners was procured or allowed to stand through any
fraud, concealment, bad faith, or breach of duty to California by
the Government or its officers. P. 523.
12. The decree of the Board of Land Commissioners stands as a
valid administrative determination of the validity of the Castro
grant, undisturbed by any subsequent judicial proceedings, and is
conclusive upon California and those claiming under her. P. 524.
91 F. 2d 14, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 677, to review a decree reversing
a decree of the District Court, which had held in favor
of the United States in a suit brought by it to quiet
title.
Assistant Attorney GMneral McFarland, with whom
olicitor General Reed, Assistant Solicitor General Bell,
and Messrs C. W. Leaphart, Oscar Provost and Philip

Buettne; were on the brge-, for the United States.
Messrs. William Stanley and James E.

Kelby, with

whom Mr. Gordon Lawson was on the brief, for respond-

ents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case involves the validity of the title of the United
States to a part of Mare Island in San Francisco Bay,

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S

which was reserved for public purposes by Presidential
Proclamation in 1850, was selected by the Secretary as a
navy yard pursuant to Act of Congress, was reserved for
that purpose by Presidential Order in 1853, and since 1854
has been so used.
The lands in question are in the area acquired as a result of the Mexican War by the Treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo, July 4, 1848, 9 Stat. 922, which guaranteed the
property rights of Mexicans in the annexed territory.
The United States claims under deed to it in 1853 by Bissell and Aspinwall and another, who derived their title
under grant of May 20, 1841, by Alvarado, Mexican Governor of California, to Castro, a Mexican citizen, of the
island La Yegua (Mare Island) "in all its extent." Respondents claim under a patent issued by California to
Darlington in 1857, purporting to convey the land in question as a part of the swamp or overflowed lands granted
to the state by the Swamp Lands Act of Congress, Sept.
28, 1850, c. 84, 9 Stat. 519.
Upon the military occupation of California during the
Mexican War the United States military commander had
proclaimed officially that Mexican land titles would receive due recognition by the United States,' and Art. 8 of
the Treaty of 1848 with Mexico declared that the property rights of Mexicans in the annexed territory should be
"inviolably respected." After the admission of California
to statehood, September 9, 1850, Congress adopted the
Mexican Claims Act of March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, which
established a Board of Land Commissioners with authority, upon petition of those claiming under Mexican or
Spanish grants of land in the annexed territory, to pass
'Proclamation

to the Inhabitants of California, July 7, 1846, at

Monterey, by Commodore John D. Sloat, 29th Cong., 2d Sess., House
Doe. No. 4, pp. 644-645; Proclamation, August 17, 1846, at Ciudad
de Los Angeles, by Commodore and Governor R. F. Stockton, id., pp.
669-670.

UNITED STATES v. O'DONNELL.
501

Opinion of the Court.

upon the validity of the grants. Right to a review of the
Board's determination by the district court, and the Supreme Court of the United States, was allowed the claimants and the Government. By ยง 12 of the Act of August
31, 1852, 10 Stat. 76, 99, the Attorney General was given
authority over appeals from decisions of the Board adverse
to the interests of the United States.
Bissell and Aspinwall, the grantors of the United States,
filed their petition before the Board, seeking confirmation
of their title under the Castro grant of May 20, 1841.
After hearing evidence the Board confirmed their title by
decree of May 8, 1855. Upon appeal by the United States
to the district court for northern California, the decree of
the Board was affirmed. Appeal by the Government to
the Supreme Court of the United States, allowed by the
district court April 1, 1857, was dismissed by the Government in the same year. The decree of the district court
was not signed or entered until a decree nunc pro tunc as
of March 2, 1857, was signed, filed and entered on April 15,
1930.
While the proceedings were still pending before the
Board, the claimants, Bissell and Aspinwall, on December
15, 1852, executed a contract to sell Mare Island to the
United States, and on January 4, 1853, for a consideratiom
of $83,491, they joined in a deed to the United States,
without covenants except for further assurance. The deed
purported to convey Mare Island. "including all the Tule
or low land and marsh belonging to the same or which
has ever been reputed or claimed to belong to the same
."
On February 28, 1853, they executed a bond in
favor of the United States in the sum of $200,000, conditioned upon the validity of their contract and the conveyance of "the entire and absolute fee simple Estate in the
said tract of land known as Mare Island." The bond recited that they' "shall at all times hereafter indemnify and
save harmless the United States against any claim or title

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

to the said tract called Mare Island and its appurtenances
which may be set up by or through any person or persons
claiming under Victor Castro and his assigns" and that
they should "also indemnify and save harmless the United
States against any adverse claim or title in any other person or persons or body politic which may within two years
from the date hereof, be made and thereafter be successfully established."
The 1857 California patent to Darlington was not recorded until June 6, 1879, when one Sawyer appears to
have acquired the Darlington claim. See Sawyer v. Osterhaus, 212 Fed. 765, 767. The Secretary of the Interior
having found that the lands in question were swamp
lands within the Swamp Lands Act of 1850, the respondents in 1928 by mandamus compelled the Secretary to
certify the lands for patent to the State of California.
The court, in awarding the relief sought, at the same time
declared with reference to the contentions made here,
"the mere issuance of patent to California determines no
legal or equitable right of the United States in the premises." Work v. United States ex rel. O'Donnell, 23 F.
(2d) 136, 138.
The present suit was brought by the United States in
the district court for northern California to quiet its title.
Respondents, by their answer, put in issue the Government's ownership of the lands in question and asserted
their title as tenants in common under the Darlington
grant. They specifically challenged the existence and
validity of the Castro grant, the validity of the decrees
of confirmation of the title of Bissell and Aspinwall, and
any prescriptive title of the United States. They prayed,
as affirmative relief, that their title be quieted, and in
support of their prayer alleged that the lands in question
were not embraced in the Castro grant and also were
swamp lands which had passed to California under the
Swamp Lands Act.

UNITED STATES v. O'DONNELL.
501

Opinion of the Court.

The trial court made findings of fact and reached conclusions of law in favor of the United States on all these
issues. Upon appeal, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit reversed and decreed "that the United States has
no title to the patented lands in suit, and that the title
is in and quieted in" respondents. 91 F. (2d) 14. . The
Court of Appeals found that Alvarado, the Mexican Governor of California, had executed the purported grant of
Mare Island to Castro, including the land in question,
but made no finding with respect to the adverse possession of the United States found by the district court. It
held that the paper signed by Alvarado was incompetent
evidence of the grant to Castro because of the lack of
filing or recordation of the grant in the Mexican archives,
see Berreyesa v. United States, 154 U. S. 623, and that
the decrees of the Board of Land Commissioners and of
the district court on appeal from the Board, confirming
the Castro title, were null and void and worthless as
evidence because the United States had purchased the
interest of the claimants Bissell and Aspinwall while the
proceedings were pending before the Board. It characterized the proceeding as collusive and the action of the
United States in acquiring title during its pendency as
breach of a trust duty assumed under the Swamp Lands
Act to convey swamp lands to California, and as in effect
a fraud upon the state. It rejected the contention of the
United States that the pending Board proceeding for
confirmation of the Castro grant withdrew the land in
question from the operation of the Swamp Lands Act,
which is the source of California's and respondents' alleged
title to the land, and held that the reservations of the
land made by Presidential proclamations for military and
naval purposes were ineffective, because California had
previously acquired an inchoate title under the Swamp
Lands Act.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1937.
()pinion of the ( ourt.

:m3

U.Cr

Respondents renew here the conitention made below,
based on an elaborate review of the evidence, that the
swamp or overflowed lands in question were below high
tide and were not within the exterior boundaries of Mare
Island as it was known at the time of the Castro grant,
and so were not intended by the grantor to be, and were
not in fact, included in the description of the grant. Resolution of this issue turns upon appraisal of the evidence
and the inferences to be drawn from it. As both courts
below have found against respondents on this issue we
shall not reixamine the evidence here. We accept the
concurrent findings as establishing the fact that the lands
ini question were within the description of the deed to
Castro. United States v. Slate Investment Co., 264 U. S.
206, 211; Shappirio v. Goldberg, 192 U. S. 232; cf. Page
v. Rogers, 211 U. S. 575; Washington Securities Co. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 76; National Bank v. Shackleford, 239 U. S. 81; Risty v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
270 U. S. 378.
Nor is the fact that a patent has issued to California.
in obedience to the judgment in the mandamus proceeding brought by respondents in Work v. United States
ex rel. O'Donnell, supra, decisive of any issue presented
here. Upon the Secretary's approval of the suryey of
the land in question by the United States Surveyor General for the State of California, showing the lands to be
swamp and overflowed at the date of the Swamp Lands
Act, and the determination by the Secretary that the
lands in question were then swamp and overflowed, it
became his duty under the Swamp Lands Act, and under
the Act of Congress of July 23, 1866, 14 Stat. 218, to
certify the lands for patent to the state. See Tubbs v.
Wilhoit, 138 U. S. 134. But the adjudication in mandamus that it was the duty of the Secretary to issue the
patent under these acts, and the issuance of it, determined no legal or equitable right of the United States

UNITED STATES v. O'J)ONNELL
501

Opinion of the Court.

in the premises. It remains open to the United States
in this or any other appropriate proceeding, to show that
the lands did not pass under the Swamp Lands Act.
United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 404; Smelting Co.
v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636, 641, 646; United States v. Conway, 175 U. S. 60, 68, and cases cited; see Work v. United
States ex rel. O'Donnell, supra, 137, 138.
We accordingly direct our attention to the question,
deemed pivotal below, whether, as the C6urt of Appeals
held, the confirmation of the title of Bissell and Aspinwall
under the Castro grant by the Board of Land Commissioners was invalid, so that the United States neither reserved nor acquired a title valid as against the State of
California and respondents who claim under her. In answering, it will be an aid to adequate understanding of
the points in issue to consider first the effect of the confirmation by the Board, without reference Lo the alleged
collusion and fraudulent action of the United States or
any of its officers.
The Swamp Lands Act of 1850 was effective to transfer an interest in the lands described in the Act, only so
far as they were part of the public domain of the United
States and thus subject to the disposal of Congress. The
Act in terms purported to grant to the several states all
swamp and overflowed lands located within their respective boundaries "which shall remain unsold at the passage
of this Act." Section 2 made it the duty of the Secretary of Interior "to make out an accurate list and plats"
of the lands described by the Act and to "cause a patent
to be issued to the state therefor." The effect of these
provisions was to invest the state in praesenti with an
inchoate title to those lands falling within the description
of the Act, to be perfected as of the date of the Act when
the land should be identified and the patent issued as provided by ยง 2. Wright v. Roseberry, 121 U. S.488; United

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

States v. Minnesota, 270 U. S. 181, 202-203. By its terms
the Swamp Lands Act did not include swamp lands which
the Government had sold, and it could not include lands
which the Government had not acquired or free any of
them of obligations to which they were subject when the
Act was passed. United States v. Minnesota, supra, 206.
It is a familiar principle of public land law that statutes providing generally for disposal of the public domain
are inapplicable to lands which are not unqualifiedly subject to sale and disposition because they have been appropriated to some other purpose. Wilcox v. Jackson, 13
Pet. 498, 513; Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Roberts, 152
U. S. 114, 119; Scott v. Carew, 196 U. S. 100. This has
been held to be the case even though the appropriation
be afterwards set aside. Leavenworth, L. & G. R. Co. v.
United States, 92 U. S. 733, 741, 745; Newhall v. Sanger,
92 U. S. 761. The general words of the granting act are
to be read as subject to such exception. Scott v. Carew,
supra, 111, 112; Louisiana v. Garfield, 211 U. S. 70, 77;
United States v. Minnesota, supra, 206.
Swamp lands in California, being a part of the territory annexed by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, were
subject to all obligations imposed upon the, United
States with respect to them under the principles of international law by reason of the annexation, and by its
treaty obligations.2 Article 8 of the treaty stipulated
'The obligation imposed by the principles of international law to
respect property rights within annexed territory is substantially that
recognized by the treaty, Soulard v. United States, 4 Pet. 511; United
States v. Percheman, 7 Pet. 51, 87; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 410,
436;" United States v. Repentigny, 5 Wall. 211, 260; Knight v. United
States Land Assn., 142 U. S. 161, 184, and comprehends not only
formal grants "but also any concession, warrant, order or permission
to survey, possess or settle, whether evidenced by writing or parol, or
presumed from possession." Strother v. Lucas, supra, 436; see Soulard v. United States, supra.

UNITED STATES v. O'DONNELL.
501

Opinion of the Court.

that Mexicans then established in the annexed territory
should retain their property within that area, and that
property belonging to Mexicans not established there
should be respected. The protocol of May 26, 1848, interpretative of the treaty, which preceded the exchange of
ratifications on May 30, 1848, declared that the grants of
land made by Mexico in the ceded territory "preserve the
legal value which they may possess, and the grantees
may cause their legitimate [titles] to be acknowledged
before the American tribunals," and that "Conformably
to the law of the United States, legitimate titles to every
description of property, personal and real, existing in the
ceded territories are those which were legitimate titles
under the Mexican law in California . . . up to the 13th
of May, 1846 . . ." 61st Cong., 1st Sess., Sen. Doc. No.
357, pp. 1119-1120.
The obligations thus assumed by the United States
antedated the Swamp Lands Act and were superior to any
rights derived from the United States under that Act.
The obligations were political in character, to be discharged in such manner and upon such terms as the
United States might deem expedient in conformity to its
treaty obligations. Beard v. Federy, 3 Wall. 478; Grisar
v. McDowell, 6 Wall. 363, 379; San Francisco v. LeRoy,
138 U. S. 656; Knight v. United States Land Assn., 142
U. S. 161, 183, 184. While the treaty provided that the
claimants under Mexican grants might cause their titles
to be acknowledged before American tribunals, it was
silent as to the mode of selection or creation of such tribunals. The United States was left free to provide for
them in its own way. Cf. United States v. Ferreira,13
How. 40, 45. It could relegate all the multitude of claims
under the Mexican grants to the ordinary procedure of
courts with the inevitable delays and confusion affecting
land titles in the vast annexed area. See Beard v. Federy,

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

supra, 493. It could set up an administrative tribunal
acting by a more summary procedure " designed to establish with finality the status of all the Mexican grants as
of the date of annexation. It chose the latter course by
the creation of the Board of Land Commissioners, by the
Act of March 3, 1851.
Under that Act the General Land Office was required
to issue a patent for all claims finally confirmed "by the
said commissioners, or by the said District or Supreme
Court." The act declared that final decision of the Board.
or the district or the Supreme Court should "be conclusive
between the United States and the said claimants only,
and shall not affect the interests of third persons." Lands,
the claim for which should be finally rejected, and lands,
claims to which should not be presented to the Board
within two years of the date of the Act were to be "deemed,
held, and considered as part of the public domain."
The primary purpose of the Mexican Claims Act was
the performance by the United States of its treaty obligations to quiet the titles of the claimants under Spanish
and Mexican grants. But a necessary consequence of
proceeding before the Commission, and one incidental to
the determination of the validity of the titles of such
claimants, was a determination whether, by the cession,
the lands in question had become a part of the public
domain of the United States. It is evident that the treaty
obligations to quiet the title of claimants under Mexican
grants would be defeated and the Mexican Claims Act
would fail of its purpose if the finality of the Board's confirmation of claims under Mexican grants could be challenged by persons claiming under grants of public lands
by the United States. For that reason it has been consistently held that claimants under the United States, by
virtue of statutes disposing of its public lands in Cali;'As to the number of the claims and the celerity with which they
were disposed of, see 8 Op. Atty. Gen. 515.

UNITED STATES v. O'DONNELL.
Opinion of the Court.

501

fornia, are not "third persons" within the meaning of the
Mexican Claims Act, and that confirmation under that
act of claims under Mexican grants is conclusive upon all
those claiming under the United States. Beard v. Federy,
supra, 493; More v. Steinbach, 127 U, S. 70; San Francisco
v. LeRoy, supra; Knight v. United States Land Assn.,
supra, 184; Ward v. Mulford, 32 Cal. 365, 370; People v.
San Francisco, 75 Cal. 388, 400; 17 Pac. 522; cf. United
States v. Coronado Beach Co., 255 U. S. 472, 488. Such
is the effect of confirmation by the Board of titles set up
under Mexican grants, upon claimants under the Swamp
Lands Act. to lands in the annexed territory. That the
Swamp Lands Act antedated the Mexican Claims Act and
the confirmation of titles under it, is immaterial; for those
claiming under the Swamp Lands Act took cum oneresubject to the treaty obligations of the United States and
whatever procedure the United States might adopt in performance of those obligations for the quieting of titles
under Mexican grants. Confirmation when made was as
effective and conclusive upon all patents under the Swamp
Lands Act as if made at the date of the treaty. San
Francisco v. LeRoy, supra, 670; Knight v. United States
Land Assn., supra, 185; Ward v. Mulford, supra, 370.
We do not stop to discuss the point, much argued at the
Bar and in the briefs, whether the decree of the district
court affirming the Board's decree of confirmation was
void or otherwise defective because not signed at or about
the time it was rendered. See Mitchell v. Overman, 103
U. S. 62, 64-65; In re Wight, 134 U. S. 136; United States
v. Stollar, 180 Fed. 910, 912, 913; InternationalHarvester
Co. v. Carlson, 217 Fed. 736, 738. If it be taken that the
Government has failed to prosecute its appeal to final
decree in the district court, it is enough that the decree of
the Board has never been set aside or otherwise disturbed.
If the appeal was not still pending when the decree of the
district court was entered nunc pro tune in 1930, the de53383 *-38---...33

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

cree of the Board remains as effective as if no appeal had
been taken, and has become final and conclusive within
the provisions of the Act. Beard v. Federy, supra; United
States v. Ritchie, 17 How. 525.
Apart from the considerations growing out of the purchase by the Government of the Bissell and Aspinwall
title, now to be discussed; the decree of the Board, if not
that of the district court, must be taken as conclusive on
respondents, and as to them it is not open to this or any
other court to reexamine the existence or validity of the
Castro grant.
The holding of the court below that the acquisition by
the United States of the title of Bissell and Aspinwall,
while their claim was pending before the Board of Land
Commissioners, involved a breach of equitable duty to
California of such character as to preclude the Government from taking any advantage of the Board's confirmation of the Castro grant, is predicated upon the assumption that by virtue of the Swamp Lands Act the United
States became in effect the trustee of the lands in question
for the benefit of the state and its successors in interest.
It is true that in a loose and general sense the United
States, pending issuance of a patent under other land
grant acts, has been referred to as a trustee of lands to be
patented, Cornelius v. Kessel, 128 U. S. 456, 460-1; Benson Mining & Smelting Co. v. Alta Mining & Smelting
Co., 145 U. S. 428, 432; Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S.
372, 383; United States v. Anderson, 194 U. S. 394; Knapp
v. Alexander-Edgar Lumber Co., 237 U. S. 162; Payne v.
New Mexico, 255 U. S. 367, and the right of the state,
before patent, to lands within the purview of the Swamp
Lands Act has been referred to as "equitable." Michigan
Land & Lumber Co. v. Rust, 168 U. S. 589, 591; Brown v.
Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473, 476.
Even where the right of the state under the Swamp
Lands Act is unqualified, it would perhaps be more ac-

UNITED STATES v. O'DONNELL.
501

Opinion of the Court.

curate to say that the United States is no more than a
donor granting without warranty those lands falling
within the description and the purview of the statute,
subject to a duty imposed by the statute, to perfect by
survey and patent such inchoate title as it had conveyed
to the state. Beyond this the United States, by the
enactment of the Swamp Lands Act, assumed no duty.
It gave no warranty of title. It assumed no obligations
to the grantee subjecting itself to other claims of equitable
duty. Sale of the lands to others does not make it accountable as a trustee of the proceeds. United States v.
Louisiana, 127 U. S. 182, 191. In any case, the duty
assumed by the United States under the treaty and the
concomitant power thus reserved to it, was inconsistent
with the assumption of trust duties toward the state by
reason of the Swamp Lands Act. In the execution of
that duty it was free to adopt any mode of procedure it
saw fit for adjudication of the titles of claimants under
Mexican grants. Even after the submission of their
claims to the Board of Land Commissioners it could withdraw them from decision of the Board and courts and
adjudicate them by Congressional action. Grisar v. McDowell, supra, 379. The tentative recognition by the
treaty of the rights of the Mexican grantees and the full
latitude which the Government had reserved to itself in
the choice of modes of disposition of those claims, were
incompatible with the assumption of trust duties by the
Government with respect to them pending their final disposition. There is thus a complete absence of support for
the supposed analogy between a sovereign government,
in such circumstances, and a private grantor who has conveyed with warranty of title or who has undertaken by
executory contract to convey title which he possesses or
subsequently acquires and who, because he has thus assumed equitable duties, is, sometimes spoken of as a
trustee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

The Mexican Claims Act itself neither imposed nor
recognized such duties. In authorizing the Board to pass
on claims presented to it upon the evidence adduced
by the claimant and the United States, it required no
notice to be given to any third party. It gave to the
Government the right to representation by an agent and
made it his duty to collect testimony "in behalf of the
United States," and to attend meetings of the Board.
But the r6le of the Government was not that of a litigant.
It was rather, as the Act itself declared, supervisory: "to
superintend the interests of the United States" in the
performance, through an administrative agency, of its
treaty obligation to ascertain for the Mexican claimants,
and for itself, what lands had been withdrawn from the
public domain by the Mexican grants. "The United
States did not appear in the courts as a contentious litigant; but as a great nation, acknowledging their obligation to recognise as valid every authentic title, and
soliciting exact information to direct their executive Government to comply with that obligation." United States
v,Fossatt,21 How. 445, 450, 451.
At no stage of the Government's dealing with the titles
under Mexican grants, either under the Swamp Lands Act
or under the Mexican Claims Act, can we find the assumption on the part of the Government of any duty
toward the state with respect to the swamp and overflowed lands other than that specified in the Swamp
Lands Act itself, and that duty was fully performed
when it issued to the state its patent to the lands in question in response to the mandate in Work v. United States
ex rel. O'Donnell, supra.
We turn now to the consideration of the circumstances
relied on to establish the proposition that the title now
asserted by the United States was acquired as the result
of a purposeful or conscious scheme to deprive the state
of possible benefits under the Swamp Lands Act by means

t'NITEI) STATES v. O'l)ONNELL.
501

()pinion

of

th ( ourt.

of collusive proceedings before

Ihe Board of Land Coin-

inissioners and the district court. At the outset it is to
be noted that this contention first emerges in this case
iii the opinion of the Court of Appeals below. There had
previously been no suggestion of such a contention in
any pleading or assignment of error, nor had the Government or its officers been charged with any fraud, collusion, concealment, or bad faith. The respondents, in
seeking affirmative relief, made no assertion of that character. In such a state of the record, dereliction of officers
of the United States in the performance of official duty
is not lightly to be inferred seventy-five years after the
event, and a court should be slow to find what would be
in effect a fraudulent conspiracy on their part to deprive
the state of the benefits of the Swamp Lands Act.
Upon the selection of Mare Island as a navy yard by
the Secretary of the Navy, Mr. Crittenden, then Attorney
General, had given an opinion to the effect that Mare
Island was a part of the public domain subject only to
the Castro grant, the claim under which was then pending
before the Board of Land Commissioners. He concluded
that there was sufficient basis for the claim to justify
purchase of the claimant's title, which he recommended
as a protection of the interests of the Government.. See
Opinion of Attorney General Cushing given to the Secretary of the Navy, April 9, 1853. 8 Op. Atty. Gen. 422.
Then followed the purchase from Bissell and Aspinwall,
in the circumstances already detailed. Those circumstances justify no inference that the defense of their claim
was dishonest. The Government had far more to gain
than to lose by defeating the Castro grant. As the grant
covered the island "in all its extent," both upland and
swamp, rejection of the claim would not only have given
to the Government a return of the purchase price and
expenses as guaranteed by its bond for title, but would
have established its right to the entire island as a part

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

of the public domain, except perhaps the swamp land.
Cf. Newhall v. Sanger, supra. The validity of the Castro
grant was the only matter with respect to which the
Board could render a decree which, under the procedure
of the Mexican Claims Act, could become final and conclusive as to the claimant and the Government. So far
as appears, each was as much concerned with the determination of that question after as before the Bissell and
Aspinwall deed and bond, for accordingly as it was
decided one way or the Other, the one or the other stood
to gain an amount equal to the purchase price of the
property. The reasonableness of the purchase price is
not challenged. The only effect of the deed and bond
was to protect the Government against loss of the opportunity to acquire the land for a navy yard in case the
property should be disposed of to some third person
pending the Board's decision, and the Castro grant should
be upheld.
"-Upon the opinion of Attorney General Cushing, already
mentioned, the Court of Appeals placed its chief, indeed
its only reliance for the conclusion that there was conscious- dereliction on the part of the Government. In
this. opinion the Attorney General spoke of the Government's purchase of the Bissell and Aspinwall title as an
accomplished fact, but nevertheless recommended that
the claim be vigorously contested. This is said to be so
inconsistent with the Government's dismissal of its appeal
four years later as to indicate a "purposeful shift of position" to the detriment of the state, from which bad faith
is to be inferred. But an attentive reading of the opinion
in. the light of subsequent events reveals no such inconsistency. In repudiating any thought that the claim
should not be contested, he declared: "But I, as Attorney
General, in view of the special duties imposed on me by
the acts for settlement of private land claims in Cali-

UNITED STATES v. O'1)ONNELL.
501

Opinion of the Court.

fornia, and of my general obligation to look after the
rights of the United States in the premises, cannot pursue
this course. I must not admit that the purchase of the
Castro claim by the United States operates in any way,
either by implication or otherwise, as a waiver of the
general rights of the United States in the premises, or
as an assent, either express or implied, to the pretended
validity of the grant to Castro." He pointed out that
the claim "involves difficult and important questions of
law, which the Commissioners, to be sure, have decided
in favor of the claimants, 4 but which the Supreme Court
may decide otherwise," and that he felt bound to protect
the interests of the United States by an appeal because
as a precedent the case would affect "many millions worth
of land in California, which is otherwise public domain."
After pointing out that the State of California retained
title to tide land below high water mark, and that the
United States could not enjoy the use of Mare Island as
a naval depot while its shores belonged to the state, he
concluded with the recommendation that "California be
invited to relinquish to the United States whatever claim,
if any, she may have to the shores or the overflowed land
of Mare Island." The opinion discloses that he had no
thought of depriving the state of any rights which it might
have under the Swamp Lands Act for it affirmatively shows
that he was of opinion (erroneously as was later decided
in Beard v. Federy, supra, and cases following it), that
no rights of California under the Swamp Lands Act would
be affected by the decisions of the Board.
With but little research it becomes apparent that the important questions of law affecting "many millions worth of
The reference is obviously to claimants other than Bissell and
Aspinwall, for at that time there had been no hearings by the Board
on the claim of the latter and the Board had rendered no decision
with respect to it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

land in California," which were involved in the Bissell and
Aspinwall claim and which the Commissioner had already
decided in other cases, were unrelated to any rights of the
state under the Swamp Lands Act, and were in fact decided
against the Government by this Court after the Attorney
General had rendered his opinion and before the dismissal
of the Government's appeal from the decree of the district
court in the Bissell and Aspinwall case.' The opinion
'Of the "difficult and important questions of law" which were said
in Attorney General Cushing's opinion to the Secretary of the Navy
to be involved in the claim of Bissell and Aspinwall, one, mentioned
in the letter itself, was whether a grant by a Mexican governor was
valid in the absence of approval by the "Departmental Deputation."
This question was answered in the affirmative by the Board, December 27, 1852, in passing on the Fremont claim; January 5, 1853,
in the Larkin case; and in preliminary opinions in the Cervantes
and Reading cases, rendered August 3, 1852, and August 9, 1852, respectively. This Court agreed with the Board on the general proposition, in Fremont v. United States, 17 How. 542, 563 (March 10,
1855); United States v. Reading, 18 How. 1, 7-8 (January 11, 1856);
United States v. Larkin 18 How. 557, 563 (May 12, 1856). A special
rule to the contrary was later pronounced as to island grants in
United States v. Osio, 23 How. 273, decided March 12, 1860, but it
cannot be said from the present record whether that rule was applicable to the Castro grant.
Also involved in the claim of Bissell and Aspinwall were five other
questions, each of which had been decided by the Board before the
Attorney General's opinion of April 9, 1853, and before the Board's
later confirmation of the Bissell and Aspinwall claim. Each was decided by this Court against the Government before its dismissal of
'the appeal which it had taken April 1, 1857, from the district court's
affirmance of that confirmation. The questions were:
(a) Whether the Mexican provincial governors had power to grant
lands. It was decided in the affirmative in the preliminary opinion
on the Cervantes claim, rendered by the Board August 3, 1852, and
in a number of subsequent decisions, and was settled by this Court
March 5, 1857, in United States v. Peralta, 19 How. 343.
(b) Whether the Mexican governors had power to grant any lands
within ten leagues of the seacoast-the so-called littoral league question. It was decided adversely to the Government in a preliminary

UNITED STATES v. O'DONNELL.
501

Opinion of the Couri.

evidences the strongest motives on the Government's part
to contest the Bissell and Aspinwall claim, and the firm
determination to prosecute the contest with vigor. The
record of the proceedings before the Board plainly shows
adherence to this purpose. Witnesses were produced by
the Government to discredit the Castro grant; those produced by the claimants, including Alvarado who testified
to his execution of the grant, were so vigorously cross-examined as to excite the Board's "strong suspicion" as to the
authenticity of the Castro grant, which it nevertheless
sustained in the light of all the evidence. Only after the
"important questions of law" had been decided by this
Court against the Government did it relax its efforts. Its
change of position then, though purposeful, can hardly
be said to be evidence of bad purpose.
The deed of Bissell and Aspinwall to the Government
was recorded in Solano County, California, April 18, 1853.
opinion in the Cervantes case, rendered by the Board August 3, 1852,
and was settled by this Court7 May 12, 1856, in ArgueUo v. United
States, 18 How. 539, and United States v. Cervantes, 18 How. 553.
(c) Whether the grantee's failure to furnish a map (diseio) with
his petition for a grant, constitutes a fatal defect in title. It was
decided by the Board adversely to the Government in the Fremont
case, December 27, 1852, and was settled by this Court March 10,
1855, in Fremont v. United States, supra.
(d) Whether a grant is void for want of a condition requiring the
grantee to take possession of and cultivate the land within a certain.
time. It was decided by the Board in the negative in the Larkin
case, January 3, 1853, and was settled by this Court May 12, 1856,
in United States v. Larkin, supra.
(e) Whether a grant is void for Want of a clause informing the
.grantee that it would become indefeasible only after approval by the
Departmental Deputation. It was involved in the Larkin claim, confirmed by the Board January 3, 1853, and was settled by this Court
May 12, 1856, in United States v. Larkin, supra.
Chronological data have been secured from Hoffman's Land
Cases, Appendix, and from the records filed in this Court in the
cited cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 1". S.

The opinion of Attorney General Cushing was in October
3, 1853 transmitted by the Secretary of the Navy to the
Governor of California who submitted it to the California
Legislature January 4, 1854. California Senate Journal,
1854, 37; Appendix, Doe. No. 4. Being then fully advised
by that opinion of the Government's purchase of the Bissell and Aspinwall claim and of its purpose to press for
a determination of the validity of the Castro grant by the
Board of Land Commissioners, the California Legislature
by Act of May 11, 1854, Cal. Stat. 1854, c. 43, pp. 48-49,
consented to the purchase of Mare Island for the purpose of
establishing there a navy yard and proclaimed that all the
lands within its limits were to be perpetually free of state
taxation. It ceded to the Government lands on the island
which are not here involved, with the proviso that the consent to the purchase and the cession to the Government
should not "be construed in aid or support, directly or impliedly, of any conveyance or bond for title to the United
States of the same lands heretofore made, or which may
hereafter be made . . . or as a recognition on the part

of the State of California of any claim, title or grant heretofore asserted or set up, or which may hereafter be asserted or set up by any person or persons . . ." The only

bond for title then relating to Mare Island which is disclosed by the record was that of Bissell and Aspinwall, and
the apparent purpose of the proviso was that the state's
consent to the purchase should not enure to the benefit of
Bissell and Aspinwall or any others in like situation, so as
to relieve them from the obligation on their bond in the
event that the Castro grant should be held invalid by the
Board of Land Commissioners. Occupation of the island
by the United States as a naval station followed in September, 1854. The Board rendered its decree of confirmation of the Castro grant May 8, 1855. The following
memorandum appears. among the papers in the case in the
district court: "The United States being now the owner of

UNITED STATES v. O'DONNELL.
501

Opinion of the Court.

the titles of appellees, a confirmation of this claim enures
to the benefit of the Government and no objection is there-,
fore made to a decree in favor of the validity of the claim."
Thus, instead of action covertly taken by the Government with the purpose of depriving the state of any of
its rights in the premises, we find high officers of the
Government proclaiming in documents submitted to the
Governor and Legislature of California the fact of the
Government's acquisition of a conditional interest in the
Bissell and Aspinwall claim, and its purpose to secure a
determination of the validity of the grant by the Board
of Land Commissioners. We see that, after this full disclosure, the state expressed consent to the purchase in
such a way as to save to the Government unimpaired its
rights under the Bissell and Aspinwall bond. Only after
the confirmation of the Castro grant by the Board of
Land Commissioners, and only after the important questions of law on which the Government relied to defeat
the grant had been decided against it by this Court in
other cases, did the Government relinquish its purpose to
contest the Bissell and Aspinwall claim. We can find in
this record no basis for saying that the confirmation
by the Board was procured or allowed to stand through
any fraud, concealment, bad faith, or breach of duty to
California by the Government or its officers.
The contention that the decree of the Board is open
to collateral attack as a nullity is thus reduced to the
assertion that, by reason of the conditional interest of the
Government under the Bissell and Aspinwall deed and
bond, the contest before the Board may have been in
some degree less vigorous than it otherwise would have
been. To this the answer is that, as already shown, the
Government owed no duty to the state to contest the
claim and that in any case the proceeding before the
Board was. not adversary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

The Board was aii administrative body, create(I as (he
Act declares "to ascertain and settle the private Land
Claims in the State of California," by proceedings which
were not required to be controversial. It was begun
without notice to any other party. While the attendance
by the "agent" of the United States was required in
order that he might "superintend the interests of the
United States," it did not appear in the r6le of litigant.
United States v. Fossatt, supra. The Board was an administrative body, not a court. United States v. Ritchie,
supra; United States v. Fossatt, supra. Review of its
proceedings by direct appeal was not within the judicial
power, and reexamination of its determinations by the
district court and the United States Supreme Court was
sustained -only on the theory that the appeal to the district court was the initiation of a suit to set aside the
determination of the Board, in the course of which suit
further evidence might be taken. United States v.
Ritchie, supra, 533, 534; Grisarv. McDowell, supra, 375.
Since the statute under which the Board was created did
not require adversary proceedings, the validity of its administrative determination was unaffected by their absence. The decree of the Board, which stands undisturbed by any subsequent proceedings in the courts,
cannot be disregarded as a nullity.
We conclude that the acquisition of the interest in the
Bissell and Aspinwall title by the United States did
not undermine that determination; that the proceedings
in connection with their claim before the Board of Land
Commissioners were free from fraud, bad faith, concealment or overreaching, and of any breach of duty to California on the part of the United States or its officers; and
that the decree of the Board stands undisturbed as a
valid administrative determination of the validity of the
Castro grant and, as such, is conclusive upon the State

CALMAR S. S. CORP. v. TAYLOR.
501

Statement of the Case.

of California and on respondents who claim under her.
The decree below must accordingly be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

CALMAR STEAMSHIP CORP. v. TAYLOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 594. Argued March 9, 1938.-Decided March 28, 1938.
1. The right of a seaman to maintenance and cure for an illness which
befalls him during his service may continue for a period beyond
the duration of the voyage, whether he be at home or abrad, and
even though the illness be not caused by the employment. P. 529.
2. In the case of a seaman suffering from an incurable disease, which
manifested itself during his employment but was not caused by it,
the duty of the ship owner to furnish maintenance and cure does
not extend beyond a fair time after the voyage in which to effect
such improvement in the seaman's condition as reasonably may
be expected to result from nursing, care, and medical treatment.
P. 530.
3. In a suit brought by a seaman suffering from an incurable disease,
which manifested itself during his employment though not caused
thereby, an award of a lump sum in anticipation of a continuing
need of maintenance and cure for life (based on his life expectc.
ancy), can not be sustained. P. 530.
4. The seaman's recovery in each such case must be measured by
the reasonable cost of that maintenance and cure to which he is
entitled at the time of the trial, including, in the discretion of the
court, such amounts as may be needful in the immediate future
for the maintenance and cure of a kind and for a period which
can be definitely ascertained. P. 531.
92 F. 2d 84, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 681, to review a decree affirming

an award against the steamship company in a suit in
admiralty for maintenance and cure.

