OCTOBER TERM. 1937.
Arguimit for Appellec.

303 U. S.

LOVELL v. CITY OF GRIFFIN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF GEORGIA.
No. 391.

Argued February 4, 1938.-Decided March 28, 1938.

1. Whether a federal question was properly presented to and decided
by a state court is itself a federal question, to be decided by this
Court upon appeal. P. 450.
2. Freedom of speech and freedom of the press, which are protected
by the First Amendment from infringement by Congress, are
among the fundamental personal rights and liberties which are
protected by the Fourteenth Amendment from invasion by state
action. P. 450.
3. Municipal ordinances adopted under state authority constitute
state action within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 450.
4. A city ordinance forbidding as a nuisapce ihe distribution, by
hand or otherwise, of literature of any kind without first obtaining written permission from the City Manager, violates the Fourteenth Amendment; strikes at the very foundation of the freedom
of the press by subjecting it to license and censorship. P. 450.
So held as applied to distribution of pamphlets and magazines
in the nature of religious tracts.
5. The liberty of the press is not confined to newspapers and periodicals. It embraces pamphlets and leaflets. P. 452.
6. One who is prosecuted for disobeying a license ordinance which is
void on its face may contest its validity without having sought a
permit under it. P. 452.
55 Ga. App. 609; 191 S. E. 152, reversed.

Appeal from a judgment affirming a sentence imposed
for violation of a city ordinance. The Supreme Court of
the State denied a review.
Mr. 0. R. Moyle for appellant.
Messrs. Hughes Spalding and Sumter M. Kelley submitted on brief for appellee.
This ordinance is a police measure which deals with
the practice of distributing circulars, handbooks, adver-

LOVELL v. GRIFFIN.
444

Argument for Appellee.

tising and other literature within the city limits. If it
be kept in mind that every municipality is faced with
a sanitary problem in removing from its streets papers,
circulars and other like materials, the reasons for the
adoption of such an ordinance become apparent. Clearly
there is a permissible field for such a regulation within
constitutional limitations. Nothing in the ordinance is
aimed at or relates to the right to worship as one may
prefer, or the right to speak or write with complete freedom. The fact the appellant may have in her own mind
associated her forbidden activities with her religious convictions does not establish any legal or constitutional
connection between them. Commonwealth v. Plaisted,
148 Mass. 375; Smith v. People, 51 Colo. 271; State v.
Marble, 72 Ohio St. 21; Streitch v. Board of Education,
34 S. D. 169; State v. Big Sheep, 75 Mont. 219; McMasters v. State, 21 Okla. Crim. 318; Reynolds v. United
States, 98 U. S. 145; State v. Neitzel, 69 Wash. 567;
Commonwealth v. Herr, 229 Pa. St. 132.
Appellant is not a member of the press. The record
in this case does not place her in the class of persons
who are entitled to invoke the constitutional provisions
touching the freedom of the press. Moreover, she was
not convicted for anything she was speaking or writing.
Neither does the ordinance prohibit her from speaking
or writing as her judgment may dictate. The requirement of the ordinance that she is not to distribute printed
matter which others have published, without a permit,
involves in no way the constitutional right of free speech.
Iroquois Transportation Co. v. DeLaney Co., 205 U. S.
354; Lee v. New Jersey, 207 U. S. 67; Fidelity & Casualty
Co. v. Freeman, 109 F. 847; Missouri, K. & T. R. Co. v.
Cade, 233 U. S. 642.
The ordinance does restrict the right to distribute circulars, advertising matter and other literature in the
city, in the absence of a -netmit from the City Manager.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Appellee.

303 U. S.

It is urged that this restraint involves a denial of due
process and the equal protection of the law, in that the
City MIanager is clothed with unqualified discretion in
granting or denying the permit. This is scarcely a denial
of the equal protection of the law, since it applies in like
manner to all persons. A substantial question as to due
process might have been involved in the case except for
the following essential facts, to-wit :
(a) Appellant failed to raise in any proper manner
the issue of lue process in the trial court. The Court
of Appeals so ruled, and rightly. Cole'man v. Griffin, 55
Ga. App. 123; Curtis v. Helen, 171 Ga. 256; Jordan v.
State, 172 Ga. 857; Palmer v. Phinizy, 151 Ga. 589;
Louisville & N. Ry. Co. v. Voodford, 234 U. S. 46.
(b) Appellant did not apply to the City Manager for
a permit. She is not in a position of having suffered
from the exercise of the arbitrary and unlimited power
of which she complains. Had she made application for a
permit and had she been denied one without adequate
reason, her constitutional rights would have been infringed. She seeks to claim the benefit of the presumption
that an application by her for a permit would have been
denied. Nothing in the record justifies such an assumption. The fact that the City Manager is clothed with
arbitrary power, if it be a fact, affords the appellant no
ground of complaint unless and until she has suffered from
the exercise of this power. It is submitted that it is proper
for the city to provide by ordinance that all persons distributing materials described by the ordinance be required
to apply for a permit. If so, no person desiring to engage
in this activity can suffer any legal wrong by reason of
the' ordinance until the application for a permit has been
denied. Until the contrary appears from experience, it
will be presumed that all persons legally entitled to a
permit will be granted one. Had the appellant applied
for one and. been denied without substantial cause, a

LOVELL v. GRIFFIN.
444

Opinion of the Court.

question of due process would have arisen. Even then, it
would be necessary, in order to get a hearing in this Court,
for the appellant to raise this question in the manner
required by the accepted rules of practice, and this she
has not done.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. FrancisBiddle and Osrnond K. Fraenkel, on behalf
of the American Liberties Union, and by Messrs. Samuel
Slaff and George Slaff, on behalf of the Workers' Defense
League, in support of appellant.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Appellant, Alma Lovell, was convicted in the Recorder's
Court of the City of Griffin, Georgia, of the violation of
a city ordinance and was sentenced to imprisonment for
fifty days in default of the payment of a fine of fifty
dollars. The Superior Court of the county refused sanction of a petition fpr review; the Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the Superior Court (55 Ga. App.
609; 191 S. E. 152); and the Supreme Court of the State
denied an application for certiorari. The case comes here
on appeal.
The ordinance in question is as follows:
"Section 1. That the practice of distributing, either by
hand or otherwise, circulars, handbooks, advertisng, or
literature of any kind, whether said articles are being delivered free, or whether same are being sold, within the
limits of the City of Griffin, without first obtaining written permission from the City Manager of the City of
Griffin, such practice shall be deemed a nuisance, and
punishable as an offense against the City of Griffin.
"Section 2. The Chief of Police of the City of Griffin
and the police force of the City of Griffin are hereby required and directed to suppress the same and to abate

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

any nuisance as is described in the first section of this
ordinance."
The violation, which is not denied, consisted of the distribution without the required permission of a pamphlet
and magazine in the nature of religious tracts, setting
forth the gospel of the "Kingdom of Jehovah." Appellan't (lid not apply for a permit, as she regarded herself
as sent'"by Jehovah to do Iis work" and that such an
application would have been "an act of disobedience to
His commandment."
Upon the trial, with permission of the court, appellant
demurred to the charge and moved to dismiss it upon
a number of grounds, among which was the contention
that the ordinance violated the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States in abridging
"the freedom of the press" and prohibiting "the free
exercise of petitioner's religion." This contention was
thus expressed:
"Because said ordinance is contrary to and in violation
of the first amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, which reads:
'Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof,
or -abridging the freedom of speech or of 'the press; or
the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to
petition the government for a redress of grievances.'
"Said ordinance is also contrary-to and in violation of
the fourteenth amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, which had the effect of making the said
first amendment applicable to the States, and which
reads:
'All persons born or naturalized in the United States,
and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the
United States, and of the State wherein they reside. No
State shtill make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United

LOVELL v. GRIFFIN.
444

Opinion of the Court.

States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life,
liberty, or property without due process of law; nor deny
to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection
of the laws.'
"Said ordinance absolutely prohibits the distribution of
any literature of any kind within the limits of the City
of Griffin without the permission of the City Manager
and thus abridges the freedom of the press, contrary to
the provisions of said quoted amendments.
"Said ordinance also prohibits the free exercise of petitioner's religion and the practice thereof by prohibiting
the distribution of literature about petitioner's religion in
violation of the terms of said quoted amendments."
The Court of Appeals, overruling these objections, sustained the constitutional validity of the ordinance,
saying"The ordinance is not unconstitutional because it
abridges the -freedom of the press or prohibits the distribution of literature about the petitioner's religion, in
violation of the fourteenth amendment to the constitution of the United States."
While in a separate paragraph of its opinion the court
said that the charge that the ordinance was void because
it violated a designated provision of the state or federal
constitution without stating wherein there was such a
violation, was too indefinite to present a constitutional
question, we think that this statement must have referred
to other grounds of demurrer and not to the objection
above quoted which was sufficiently specific and was definitely ruled upon. The contention as to restraint "upon
the free exercise of religion," with respect to the same
ordinance, was presented in the case of Coleman v. City
of Griffin, 55 Ga. App. 123, and the appeal was dismissed
for want of a substantial federal question, 302 U. S: 6,36.
Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S.145, 166, 167; Davis
5:1383°-38--29

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

v. Beason, 133 U. S. 333, 342, 343. But, in the Coleman
case, the Court did not deal with the question of freedom
of speech and of the press, as it had not been properly
presented. We think that this question was adequately
presented and was decided in the instant case. Whether
it was so presented and was decided is itself a federal
question. Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442, 447; Ward v.
Love County, 253 U. S. 17, 22; First National Bank v.
Anderson, 269 U. S. 341, 346; Schuylkill Trust Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 296 U. S. 113, 121. This Court has jurisdiction.
Freedom of speech and freedom of the press, which are
protected by the First Amendment from infringement by
Congress, are among the fundamental personal rights and
liberties which are protected by the Fourteenth Amendment from invasion by state action. Gitlow v. New York,
268 U. S. 652, 666; Stromberg v. California, 283 U. S.
359, 368; Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 707; Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 244; De Jonge
v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353, 364. See, also, Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319. Itis also well settled that municipal
ordinances adopted under state authority constitute state
action and are within the prohibition of the amendment.
Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20;
Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles, 227
U. S. 278; CuyahogaRiver Power Co. v. Akron, 240 U. S.
462.
The ordinance in its broad sweep prohibits the distribution of "circulars, handbooks, advertising, or literature of any kind." It manifestly applies to pamphlets,
magazines and periodicals. The evidence against appellant was that she distributed a certain pamphlet and a
magazine called the "Golden Age." Whether in actual
administration the ordinance is applied, as apparently
it could be, to newspapers does not appear. The City
Manager testified that "every one applies to me for a

LOVELL v. GRIFFIN.
444

Opinion of the Court.

license to distribute literature in this City. None of
these people (including defendant) secured a permit from
me to distribute literature in the City of Griffin." The
ordinance is not limited to "literature" that is obscene or
offensive to public morals or that advocates unlawful conduct. There is no suggestion that the pamphlet and magazine distributed in the instant case were of that character. The ordinance embraces "literature" in tho widest
sense.
The ordinance is comprehensive with respect to the
method of distribution. It covers every sort of circulation
"either by hand or otherwise." There is thus no restriction in its application with respect to time or place. It is
not limited to ways which might be regarded as inconsistent with the maintenance of public order or as involving disorderly conduct, the molestation of the inhabitants, or the misuse or littering of the streets. The
ordinance prohibits the distribution of literature of any
kind at any time, at any place, and in any manner without a permit from the City Manager.
We think that the ordinance is invalid on its face.
Whatever the motive which induced its adoption, its
character is such that it strikes at the very foundation of
the freedom of the press by subjecting it to license and
censorship. The struggle for the freedom of the press was
primarily directed against the power of the licensor. It
was against that power that John Milton directed his assault by his "Appeal for the Liberty of Unlicensed Printing." And the liberty of the press became initially a
right to publish "without a license what formerly could be
published only with one." 1 While this freedom from
previous restraint upon publication cannot be regarded as
exhausting the guaranty of liberty, the prevention of that
restraint was a leading purpose in the adoption of the
See Wickwar, "The Struggle for the Freedom of the Press," p. 15.

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

constitutional provision. See Patterson v. ;Colorado, 205
U. S. 454, 462; Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 713716; Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 245,
246. Legislation of the type of the ordinance in question
would restore the system of license and censorship in its
baldest form.
The liberty of the press is not confined to newspapers
dnd periodicals. It necessarily embraces pamphlets and
leaflets. These indeed have been historic weapons in the
defense of liberty, as -the pamphlets of Thomas Paine and
others in our own history abundantly attest. The press
in its historic connotation comprehends every sort of
publication which affords a vehicle of information and
opinion. What we have had recent occasion to say with
respect to the yital importance of protecting this essential liberty from every sort of infringement need not be
repeated. Near v. Minnesota, supra; Grosjean v. Amer2
ican Press Co., supra; De Jonge v. Oregon, supra.
The ordinance cannot be saved because it relates to
distribution and not to publication. "Liberty of circulating is as essential to that freedom as liberty of publishing; indeed, without the circulation, the publication
would be of little value." Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727,
733. The license tax in Grosjean v. American Press Co.,
supra, was held invalid because of its direct tendency to
restrict circulation.
As the ordinance is void on its face, it was not necessary for appellant to seek a permit under it. She was
'See also, Starr company v. Brush, 185" App. Div. (N. Y.) 261;
172 N. Y. S. 851; Dearborn Publishing Co. v. Fitzgerald, 271 Fed.
479; In re Campbell, 64 Cal. App. 300; 221 Pac. 952; Coughlin v.
Sullivan, 100 N. J. L. 42; 126 Atl. 177. Compare People v. Arnistrong, 73 Mich. 288; 41 N. W. 275; Chicago v. Schultz, 341 Ill. 208;
.173 N. E. 276; People v. Armentrout, 118 Cal. App. Supp. 761; 1
P. 2d 556.

SANTA CRUZ CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
444

Sylla'tus.

entitled to contest its validity in answer to the charge
against her. Smith V. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553, 562.
The* judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in fthe consideration
aI)d decision of this case.

SANTA CRUZ FRUIT PACKING CO. v. NATIONAL
LABOR RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 536.

Argued March 7, 1938.-Decided March 2S, 1938.

1. A corporation was engaged, in California, in the business of canning fruits and vegetables, raised in the State, and in disposing of
its large output locally and in interstate and foreign commerce,
37% going to destinations beyond the State, partly on f. o. b. shipment and much of it by water. The goods shipped by boat were
carried to the wharves on trucks loaded at the plant by warehousemen employed there. Many of these, upon being locked out
by the company for having joined a labor union, formed a picket
line, and this was so maintained that eventually the movement of
trucks from warehouse to wharves ceased entirely. The teamsters
refused to haul, the warehousemen at the dock warehouses declined to handle, and the stevedores between dock and ship refused to load, the company's goods. The National Labor Relations Board found that the discharge of the employees and the
refusal to reinstate them constituted an unlawful discrimination
under the National Labor Relations Act and that the acts of the
company tended to lead, and had led, to labor disputes burdening
and obstructing interstate commerce. it ordered the company to
desist from such practices, to reinstate, with back pay, the discharged employees, and to post notices, etc. Held that the case
was within the jurisdiction of the Board and that the order was
properly sustained by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Pp. 463
et seq.

