MATY v. GRASSELLI CO.
Opinion of the Court.

MATY, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. GRASSELLI
CHEMICAL CO.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 37S.

Argued February 3, 1938.-Decided February 14, 1938.

In an action for personal injuries, the plaintiff alleged his employment as a worker in a specified department of defendant's plant
and that while so employed he suffered the injuries through inhaling gases etc. attributable to defendant's negligence. An
amendment of the complaint broadened the description of the
place of employment where the injuries were sustained so as to
include another department located in another building of the
same plant. Held that the amendment did not introduce a new
cause of aetion within the meaning of the New Jersey statute of
limitation8. P. 199.
89 F. (2d). 456, reversed.

302 U. S. 663, to review the reversal of a
judgment for the defendant, the present respondent, in
CERTIORARI,

an action for personal injuries begun in a New Jersey

state court and removed to the federal district court.
Upon the death of the plaintiff, the present petitioner

was substituted, as administratrix, by the court below.
Mr. Thomas F. Gain, with whom Messrs. Charles L.
Guerin, Mario Turtur, and Francis Shunk Brown were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Louis Rudner, with whom Mr. Carl E. Geuther

was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered

the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner (plaintiff) filed a complaint alleging that he
was injured while employed in the silicate department of

respondent's (defendant's) chemical plant.

Later, and

more than two years after the date of his injuries, he

amended his complaint.

The only effect of the amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

30:3 U. S.

Ment was to broaden the description of the place of employment where the injuries were sustained so as to include the phosphate department located in the same plant
but in a different building 500 feet removed from the
silicate department.
The sole question is: Did the New Jersey statute of
limitations of two years 'bar the amendment because it
set out a new cause of action?
The cause, originally brought in the New Jersey State
Court, was removed, because of diversity of citizenship,
to the District Court for New Jersey, where a verdict for
plaintiff was set aside and judgment entered for defendant. The Court of Appeals affirmed, holding that
the amendment to the complaint set out a new cause of
action and was barred by the New Jersey statute of
limitations.'
The pertinent part of the New Jersey statute of limitations reads: 2
all actions hereafter accruing for injuries to persons caused by the wrongful act, neglect or default of
any . . . corporation or corporations within this State,
shall be commenced and instituted within two years next
after the cause of such action shall have accrued and not
after."
The original complaint alleged:
"1. The plaintiff was in the employ of the defendant
in the month of November, 1933, and for some time prior
thereto at defendant's plant in Grasselli, County of Union
and State of New Jersey.
"2. The plaintiff was employed by the defendant as
furnace man, operitor and general worker in the Silicate
Department of defendant's plant."
89 F. (2d) 456. While the cause was jending in the Court of
Appeals, the plaintiff died and his wife, the present plaintiff, was
substuted as Administratrix. Both are referred to as petitioner
(plaintiff).
23 N. J. Comp. St. 1910, p. 3164, ยง 3; P, L. 1896, p. 119.

MATY v. GRASSELLI CO.
197

Opinioni of 1lhc
Court.

The complaint further alleged that plaintiff was injured while so employed by inhaling gases or injurious
substances proximately caused by respondent's failure
to protect plaintiff from unnecessary dangers and to provide plaintiff a reasonably safe place in which to work.
The amendment-added more than two years after the
injuries Wvere sustained-caused Paragraph 2 of the complaint to read as follows:
"2. The plaintiff was employed by the defendant as
furnace man, operator and general worker in the Silicate
Department of defendant's plant and was also employed
in other Departments of the defendant's plant where he
performed his duties as he was directed to do during his
cmployment in the Phosphate Department and Dorr department." (New matter represented by italics.)
This amendment did not change plaintiff's cause of action. The original action was brought for injuries sustained by inhaling harmful substances while the plaintiff
was in the defendant's employ previous to and including
November 1933. The essentials of this cause of action
were employment; injury by or from harmful gases or
substances while engaged in the employment; and proof
that the injuries resulted fronT the negligent failure of
defendant to protect plaintiff from unnecessary dangers
and to provide plaintiff with a reasonably safe place in
which to work. The responsibility of respondent was the
same whether the harmful gases or substances were inhaled in the silicate department, the phosphate department, the Dorr department or any other department where
plaintiff was performing his duties under his employment. It is not reasonably possible to say that petitioner's right of recovery under the original complaint
and under the amended complaint were two separate and
distinct causes of action. Petitioner can have only one
recovery for the one single injury alleged as a result of a
breach of one continuing duty under one continuous
employment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

The New Jersey Court of Errors and Appeals very clearly declared that State's rule applying to the operation
of its statute of limitations, in 1935, as follows:
"... amendmen'-3 in causes where the statute of limitations has run, . . . 'will not, as a rule, be held to state
a new cause of action if the facts alleged show, substantially, the same wrong with respect to the same transaction, or if it is the same matter more fully and differently
laid, or if the gist of the action, or the subject of the controversy remains the same; and this is true although . . .
the alleged incidents of the transaction, may be different. Technical rules will not be applied in determining
whether the cause of action stated in the original and
amended pleadings are identical, since, in the strict sense,
almost any amendment may{ be said to change the original
cause of action.' " '
Under this rule laid down by the New Jersey Court,
as to New Jersey's statute of limitations, the amended
complaint here substantially alleged the same wrong as
the original complaint; relied upon the identical matter
more fully and differently laid; and the essential elements of the action and the controversy remained the
same between the parties after as before the amendment.
Pleadings are intended to serve as a means of arriving
at fair and just settlements of controversies between litigants. They should not raise barriers which prevent the
achievement of that end. The original complaint in this
cause and the amended complaint were not based upon
different causes of action. They referred to the same
kind of employment, the same general place of employMagliaro v. Modern Homes, Inc., 115 N. J. L. 151, 156-157; 178
A. 733, 736; O'Shaughnessy v. Bayonne News Co., 154 A. 13; 9 N. J.
Misc. 345, 347; and see, New York Central & H. R. R. Co. v. Kinney,
260 U. S. 340; and United States v. Memphis Coitdn Oil Co., 288
U. S. 62.

MOOKINI v. INITED STATES.
197

Syllabus.

ment, the same injury and the same negligence.

Proper

pleading is important, but its importance consists in its
effectiveness as a means to accomplish the end of a just
judgment. The effect of the amendment here was to facili-

tate a fair trial of the existing issues between plaintiff
and defendant. The New Jersey statute of limitations
did not bar the amended cause of action. The court below was in error.

Since the judgment of the Court of

Appeals was based only on a consideration and improper
application of the statute of limitations, the cause is reversed and remanded to the Court of Appeals for further
proceedings in harmony with these views.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of &s case.

MOOKINI ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No.

319.

Argued February 2, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

1. The Act of March 8, 1934, (28 U. S. C. 723a) empowering this
Court to prescribe rules of practice with respect to proceedings
after determination of guilt in criminal cases in "District Courts
,
of the United States, including the District Courts of
Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Canal Zone and Virgin Islands," and in
the other courts named, does not require that rules when prescribed shall be identical for all the courts mentioned or that
rules for all :hall be prescribed at the same time. P. 203.
2. In the rules heretofore promulgated by this Court (May 7, 1934,
292 U. S. 661) limited to proceedings in criminal cases in "District Courts of the United States" and in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia and subsequent appellate proccedingg,
the term "District Courts of the United States" meons constitutional courts created under Art. III of the Constitution; it
does not embrace legislative courts such as the District Court
for the Territory of Hawaii. P. 205.

