CASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.

KAY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 61.

Argued December 10, 13, 1937.-Decided January 31, 1938.

1. The Court declines to consider a point made by the Government, not raised below and not adequately based in the record, to
the effect that a defendant whose plea of guilty was withdrawn on
motion made after the ten days set by Rule 11 (4) of the Criminal
Appeals Rules and who was tried and convicted, is precluded
from attacking the indictment and the statute on which it was
founded. P. 4.
2. The second mortgagee of property on which a loan is being
sought of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation, who, in a consent to accept bonds of the Corporation in full settlement of his
debt, knowingly and falsely, for the purpose of- influencing the
action of the Corporation, overstates the amount of his claim,
is guilty of a violation of § 8 (a) of the HQme Owners' Loan Act.
P. 5.
3. Even if the other parts of the Act were unconstitutional, § 8 (a),
aided by the separability clause, is valid as a protection of the
Government against false and misleading representations while
the Act is being administered. P. 6.
When one undertakes to cheat the Government or to mislead
those acting under its authority, by false statements, he has no
standing to assert that the operations of the Governmefit in which
the effort to cheat or mislead is made are without constitutional
sanction.
53383°-381
1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

303 U. S.

4. Sec. 8 (a) of the Home Owners' Loan Act defines the crime sufficiently to comply with due process. P. 7.
5. Sec. 8 (e) of the Home Owners' Loan Act, originally and as
amended in 1934, forbids and penalizes the charging of applicants
for loans from the Home Owners' Loan Corporation for services
rendered "for examination and perfection of title, appraisal, and
like necessary services," except the "ordinary charges" or fees
authorized and required by -the Corporation. Held valid.
(1) See. 8 (e) is separable from the other provisions of the
statute. P. 8.
(2) Without regard to the validity of the scheme of the Act,
Congress was authorized to protect from exploitation through improper or excessive charges those who sought loans under it. Id.
(3) Taken in connection with a resolution of the Corporation
defining the ordinary charges that are "authorized or required,"
and providing for "any other necessary charge for like necessary
services, as specifically approved by the Board of Directors," the
section is sufficiently definite to satisfy due process. P. 8.
(4) The phrase "like necessary services" means services cognate
to those mentioned in the preceding clause, "for examination and
perfection of title" and "appraisal." P. 9.
(5) Congress did not exceed its power in delegating to the Corporation the authority to make such regulations. Id.
6. Under the Criminal Appeals Rules, the Circuit Court of Appeals
has power, in the exercise of sound discretion, to approve a settlement and filing of a bill of exceptions which were too late in the
District Court, and to pass upon the rulings there disclosed. P. 9.
89 F. (2d) 19, judgment vacated.

CERTIORARI, 301 U. S. 679, to review a judgment sustaining convictions and concurrent sentences on various
counts charging violation of the Home Owners' Loan Act.
Messrs. Frank R. Serri and W. S. Culbertson for petitioner.
Assistant Solicitor General Bell, with whom Solicitor
General Reed, Assistant Attorney General McMahon,
and Messrs. William W. Barron, Horace Russell, E. K.
Neumann, and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for
the United States.

KAY v. UNITED STATES.

3

Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Petitioner was convicted of violations of § 8 (a) ' and
(e) I of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933. Act of
'Section 8 (a) of the Home Owners' Loan Act, 12 U. S. C. 1467
(a), is as follows:
"Sec. 8. (a) Whoever makes any statement, knowing it to be
false, or whoever willfully overvalues any security, for the purpose
of influencing in any way the action of the Home Owners' Loan
Corporation or the Board or an association upon any application,
advance, discount, purchase, or repurchase ag- , ement, or loan, under
this Act, or any extension thereof by renewal deferment, or action
or otherwise, or the acceptance, release, or substitution of security
therefor, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $5,000 or by
imprisonment for not more than two years, or both."
2Section 8 (e) of the Act, 12 U. S. C. 1467 (e), as originally
enacted by the Act of June 13, 1933, c. 64, 48 Stat. 134, was as
follows:
"(e) No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall make
any charge in connection with a loan by the Corporation or an
exchange of bonds or cash advance under this Act except ordinary
charges authorized and required by the Corporation for- services
actually rendered for examination and perfecting of title, appraisal,
and like necessary services. Any person, partnership, association, or
corporation violating the provisions of this subsection shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned
not more than five years, or both."
By the Act of April 27, 1934, c. 168, § 12, 48 Stat. 643, 647,
§ 8 (e) was amended so as to read:
"(e) No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall,
directly or indirectly, solicit, contract for, charge or receive, or
attempt to solicit, contract for, charge or receive any fee, charge,
or other consideration from any person applying to the Corporation for a loan, whether bond or cash except ordinary fees authorized
and required by the Corporation for services actually rendered for
examination and perfection of title, appraisal, and like necessary
services. Any person, partnership, association, or corporation violating the provisions of this subsection shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than five
years or both."

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

June 13, 1933, c. 64, 48 Stat. 128, 134, amended by Act
of April 27, 1934, c. 168, 48 Stat. 643, 647. 12 U. S. C.,
§ 1467 (a) and (e). The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the conviction, 89 F. (2d) 19, and because of the
importance of the questions presented certiorari was
granted. 301 U. S. 679.
The conviction was upon eight counts of the indictment, viz., counts 5 and 15 under § 8 (a) and counts 8,
12, 14, 20, 24 and 25 under § 8 (e). To count 12 petitioner had pleaded guilty but later was permitted to
withdraw that plea, pleaded not guilty, and went to
trial. On count 8, imposition of sentence was suspended
and petitioner was placed upon probation. On the remaining seven counts, petitioner was sentenced to a year
and a day in prison, the sentences to run concurrently.
The Circuit Court of Appeals refused to consider errors
arising on the bill of exceptions, as it had not been settled
and filed within the time permitted by Rule IX of the
Criminal Appeals Rules. The court accordingly limited
its consideration to the sufficiency of the indictment,
entertaining and deciding the questions of the constitutional validity of the Home Owners' Loan Act and of
the provisions of § 8 (a) and (e) in particular.
The Government contends that the convictions should
be sustained, irrespective of questions of the validity
of any part of the statute, upon the ground that, the
sentences being concurrent, the judgment should be affirmed if good under any one of the counts. In that
view, the Government submits that petitioner consented
to the judgment on count 12. The point is that petitioner was permitted to withdravr her plea of guilty to
that count although eleven days had intervened, while
Rule II (4) of the Criminal Appeals Rules requires such
a motion to be made within ten days. The Government
argues that the provision of the rule is mandatory and
hence the judgment, as one upon consent, should be

KAY v. UNITED STATES.
1

Opinion of the Court.

affirmed without consideration of the merits. Petitioner
answers that the Government by going to trial is now
estopped to raise the question and further that a plea
of guilty does not prevent the defendant from challenging
the sufficiency of the indictment. (2 Bishop on Criminal Procedure, 2d ed., § 795.) The point does not appear to have been raised either in the District Court or
in the Court of Appeals and it is based solely upon the
dates of certain entries in the criminal docket without
any supporting proof. We are not disposed to deal with
a question of that importance presented in this manner.
First.-As to the counts under § 8 (a). 3-Counts 5 and
15, under that provision, charge that petitioner, being the
holder of a second mortgage upon certain premises, in
executing the consent to accept bonds of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation in full settlement, and for the purpose of influencing the action of the Corporation, knowingly and falsely stated that her claims were respectively
in the sums of $590 and $650, whereas in fact they were
respectively only in the sums of $285 and $150.
Petitioner argues that there is no allegation that a loan
to the owner was made or approved, or that any payment
was made to petitioner; that the second mortgagee's consent is temporary and may be withdrawn; that it is not
under oath and that there is no warranty of the truth
of the information given. Petitioner argues further that
any statement in the consent of a second mortgagee as
to the balance due cannot endanger or directly influence
any loan made by the Corporation; that the second
mortgagee is not an applicant and that the practice in
such cases negatives reliance on the consent, as the essential factors are the value of the property, as to which the
Corporation makes its appraisal, and the earning capacity of the owner. None of these arguments is impressive. It does not lie with one knowingly making
' See Note 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

false statements with intent to mislead the officials of
the Corporation to say that the statements were not
influential or the information not important. There can
be no question that Congress was entitled to require that
the information be given in good faith and not falsely
with intent to mislead. Whether or not the Corporation would act favorably on the loan is not a matter
which concerns one seeking to deceive by false information. The case is not one of an action for damages but
of criminal liability and actual damage is not an ingredient of the offense.
Petitioner's main argument is that the whole scheme
of the statute is invalid; that Congress had no constitutional authority to create the Home Owners' Loan Corporation,-to provide for the conduct of a business enterprise of that character. There is no occasion to consider
this broad question as petitioner is not entitled to raise
it. When one undertakes to cheat the Government or
to mislead its officers, or those acting under its authority,
by false statements, he has no standing to assert that the
operations of the Government in which the effort to cheat
or mislead is made are without constitutional sanction.
We recently dealt with a similar contention that the
false claims statute, Criminal Code, § 35, did not apply
to a conspiracy to cheat the United States by false representations in connection with operations under a statute
which this Court found to be unconstitutional. We said
that such a construction was inadmissible. "It might
as well be said that one could embezzle moneys in the
United States Treasury with impunity if it turns out
that they were collected in the course of invalid transactions. . . . Congress was entitled to protect the Government against those who would swindle it regardless
of questions of constitutional authority as to the operations that the Government is conducting. Such questions cannot be raised by those who make false claims

KAY v. UNITED STATES.
I

Opinion of the Court.

against the Government." United States v. Kapp, 302
U. S. 214, 217-218; Madden v. United States, 80 F. (2d)
672. While the instant case is not one of conspiracy
to obtain money from the United States, but one of false
statements designed to mislead those acting under authority of the Government, the principle involved is the
same. Apart from any question of the validity of the
other provisions of the Home Owners' Loan Act, Congress was entitled to secure protection against false and
misleading representations while the Act was being administered, and the separability provision of the Act (§ 9)
is clearly applicable. Utah Power Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S.
165, 184.
There is the further argument that the provision of
§ 8 (a), separately considered, offends the due process
clause as being vague and uncertain. We find no merit
in that contention. The statute defining the crime is
sufficiently explicit.
Second.-As to the counts under § 8 (e). 4-- The Government points out that count 14 is based on the statute
as it was originally enacted in 1933. That count charges
that petitioner on or about April 1, 1934, made a contract
with an applicant for a loan for the payment to petitioner of a certain sum for services in connection with
the loan and that the contract was not for "an ordinary
charge or fee authorized and required by the Home Owners' Loan Corporation for services actually rendered for
examination and perfection of title, appraisal, and like
necessary services."
Counts 12, 20, 24 and 25, under the statute as amended,
charge that petitioner in or about June, July and September, 1934, made similar contracts for the payment of
unauthorized charges.
It appears that the Board of Directors in January, 1934,
specifically provided that "the ordinary charges author'See Note 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

ized and required" for services should consist of (1) an
appraisal fee as approved by the Board, (2) a fee for a
character report, (3) necessary recording and similar fees,
(4) necessary charges for perfecting title in a sum not
exceeding $75 in any case and larger necessary charges
if approved by the Board, (5) necessary and usual fees
for abstracts, examinatioh of title, opinions, certificates
of title or title insurance, (6) charges of attorneys or title
companies for escrow services or closing loans, and (7)
any other necessary charge for like necessary services as
specifically approved by the Board.
Section 8 (e) is also separable from the other provisions
of the statute. It is plainly designed to prevent the
exploitation of applicants. It rests upon the same principle as that which underlies § 8 (a) as to false and misleading representations to the officials of the Corporation. Congress was entitled not only to prevent misapplication of the public funds and to protect the officials
concerned from being misled, but also to protect those
who sought loans from being imposed upon by extravagant or improper charges for services in connection with
their applications. This would be in the interest "not
only of themselves and their families but of the public."
See Yeiser v. Dysart, 267 U. S. 540, 541; Nebbia v. New
York, 291 U. S. 502, 535, 536. Authority to penalize such
exploitation while the enterprise is being conducted cannot be regarded as dependent upon the validity of the
general plan. That plan might or might not be assailed.
If assailed, a long period might elapse before final decision. Meanwhile, the governmental operations go on, and
public funds and public transactions require the protection which it was the aim of these penal provisions to
secure, whatever might be the ultimate determination as
to the validity of the enterprise. United States v. Kapp,
supra.
As a separable provision, the validity of § 8 (e) is
challenged as lacking the requisite definiteness under the

KAY v. UNITED STATES.
1

Opinion of the Court.

due process clause. Section 8 (e) as amended in 1934
omitted the words "in connection with a loan by the Corporation or an exchange of bonds or cash advance under
this Act" which were in the original provision. But the
context, in the amended section, sufficiently shows that
the forbidden charges are those in connection with applications "for a loan, ivhether bond or cash." The resolution adopted by the Board of Directors sets forth the
nature of the ordinary charges that "are authorized and
required," and the power of Congress to provide for such
action by the Board is not open to question. See United
States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506, 521; United States v.
Shreveport Grain Co., 287 U. S. 77, 85. The phrase "like
necessary services" in the section describes services which
are cognate to those mentioned in the preceding clause
"for examination and perfection of title" and "appraisal."
And the resolution of the Board, after stating the categories of authorized charges, provides for "any other
necessary charge for like necessary services, as specifically approved by the Board of Directors." We think that
the statute sets up an ascertainable standard and is "sufficiently explicit to inform those who are subject to it
what conduct on their part will render them liable to its
penalties." United States ex rel. Handler v. Hill, 90 F.
(2d) 573, 574. Compare Connally v. General Construc.
tion Co., 269 U. S. 385, 391; Old DearbornCo. v. SeagramDistillers Corp., 299 U. S. 183, 196.
Third.-We have considered the objections to the indictment which were open in the absence of a bill of
exceptions. The Circuit Court of Appeals rightly held
that the bill of exceptions was not settled and filed in
time under the rule. But its decision was rendered before
our decision in Ray v. United States, 301 U. S. 158, construing Rule IV of the Criminal Appeals Rules. See, also,
Forte v. United States, 302 U. S. 220. That rule gives
to the Circuit Court of Appeals full supervision and control of the proceedings on appeal, "including the proceed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

ings relating to the preparation of the record on appeal."
The appellate court, in the exercise of its sound discretion,
has authority to provide for the correction of any miscarriage of justice in connection with any action of the trial
judge relating to the settlement and filing of a bill of
exceptions.
As the Circuit Court of Appeals may have proceeded
in this case upon the assumption that it had no power to
approve the settlement and filing of the bill of exceptions and to pass upon the rulings it disclosed, its judgment will be vacated and the cause will be remanded so
that the appellate court may be free to exercise its
discretion in that relation.
Judgment vacated.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

BRADY v. TERMINAL RAILROAD ASSOCIATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 163.

Argued January 4, 5, 1938.-Decided January 31, 1938.

The defendant carrier hauled a string of freight cars over its own
line and left them on the receiving track of a connecting carrier,
where they then stood temporarily whilst being inspected by an
employee of the connecting carrier to detcrmine whether they
should be accepted by the latter for further transportation. Due
to a defectively attached grab-iron, the employee fell from one
of the cars and was injured. Both carriers were engaged in
interstate commerce. Held that the defendant carrier was liable
under the Federal Safety Appliance Act.
1. The defective car was "in use," within the meaning of the
statute. P. 13.
2. The responsibility of the defendant carrier, which had brought
the car, was not ended, since the other carrier had not ac'cepted
it nor assumed control. P. 13.
3. The duty of the defendant carrier under the Act extended
to the person injured, although he was not its employee. P. 14.

