OCTOBER TERM. 1937.
Svlla us.

303 U. S.

construing § 293 (b) as imposing a penalty designed to
punish fraudulent tax dodgers "and not as a mere preventive measure," it thought that the Coffey case and
United States v. La Franca, 282 U. S. 568, required it
"to treat the imposition of the penalty of 50 per cent.
as barred by the prior acquittal of Mitchell in the criminal action." Since we construe § 293 (b) as imposing a
civil administrative sanction, neither case presents an
obstacle to the recovery of the $364,354.92, the 50 per
centum addition here in issue.
Reversed.
MR. JusTicE MCREYNOLDS is of opinion that the judg-

ment of the Circuit Court of Appeals should
affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

and MR.

JUSTICE REED

be

took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.

TTCONIC NATIONAL BANK

ET AL.

v. SPRAGUE

ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 374. Argued February 2, 3,1938.-Decided March 7,1938.
1. As an incident to the right to recover the amount of a bank
deposit, the depositor is entitled to interest as damages for the
failure to pay upon demand. P. 410.
2. The obligation of a national bank to pay interest as damages for
detention of a. debt is not cut off by suspension of its business and
appointment of a receiver. P. 410.
3. The rule that in pro rata distribution, to creditors of an insolvent
national bank, interest on claims is limited to interest accrued
prior to insolvency, does not apply to the claim of a secured creditor against the assets covered by his lien. The secured creditor
may enforce his lien against his security to satisfy both principal
aind interest. P. 411.
90 F. 2d 641, altirmed.

TICONIC BANK v. SPRAGUE.
406

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 675, to review the affirmance of
a decree of the District Court, 14 F. Supp. 900, ordering
the receiver of a national bank to make payment to the
present respondents of a sum constituting a trust fund,
with interest.

Mr. George P. Barse, with whom Messrs. F. Harold
Dibord, Trevor V. Roberts, and James Louis Robertson
were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Harvey D. Eaton for respondents.
By leave of Court, Acting Solicitor General Bell, and
Messrs. Russell L. Snodgrass and Frederick E. Baukhages, III, filed a brief on behalf of the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, as amicus curiae, in support of
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question for decision is whether or not a secured
creditor of a national bank, holding a non-interest bearing claim, is entitled to interest for any period subsequent
to the insolvency of the bank, when the assets on which
he has a lien are sufficient to pay the principal and interest but the total assets of the bank are not sufficient to
pay in full all creditors' claims as of the date of insolvency.
On March 28, 1931, respondent Lottie F. Sprague delivered $5,022.18 to the trust department of the Ticonic
National Bank of Waterville, Maine, in trust, under an
agreement which authorized the trustee to invest in
bonds or securities and to deposit at least $1,000 in its
savings department at usual rates of interest; required
specified monthly payments, subject to certain conditions, to Margaret Sprague, also a respondent here; and
reserved to the grantor the right to revoke the trust and
resume possession of the trust funds.

408

OCTOBER TERM,- 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

The Ticonic Bank had been authorized by the Federal
Reserve Board to act in a trust capacity, as provided in
§ 11 (k) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended (12
U. S. C., § 248 (k)). That Act provides that funds held
in trust awaiting investment "shall not be used by the
bank in the conduct of its business unless it shall first set
aside in the trust department United States bonds or
other securities" approved by the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System, and further provides that
"In the event of the failure of such bank the owners
of the funds held in trust for investment shall have a
lien on the bonds or other securities so set apart in addition to their claim against the estate of the bank."
Pending investment of funds under the Sprague trust,
and pursuant to its resolution implementing the statutory provision just quoted, the Ticonic Bank placed the
funds of this trust, along with other trust funds awaiting
investment or distribution, as a deposit in its commercial checking department to the credit of its trust department, and secured the total amount of such funds
by setting aside in the trust department bonds, including
$20,000 Kingdom of Denmark 6's, 1942, at least equal
in value to the total amount of such deposits.
On July 29, 1935, respondents, the settlor and beiieficiary, brought this suit in the District Court for Maine
to have the bonds held as security with respect to the
trust. It appears that on August 3, 1931, Ticonic Bank
sold its assets (including the Denmark bonds) to the
Peoples National Bank (later called Peoples-Ticonic National Bank) in consideration of its agreement to "assume or pay all the indebtedness of said Ticonic Bank
to its depositors"; that Ticonic Bank then went into voluntary liquidation; that on March 4, 1933, the PeoplesTiconic Bank was closed; that Arthur Picher was appointed receiver for Peoples-Ticonic Bank on November
6, 1933, and subsequently, on June 28, 1934, for the Ti-

TICONIC BANK v. SPRAGUE.
406

Opinion of the Court.

conic Bank, which had bcen continuing its voluntary
liquidation.
The lower courts treated the suit, brought against both
banks and against Picher as receiver, as one to assert
and enforce the lien protecting the uninvested funds.
They held' that, in view of § 11 (k) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, respondents had acquired a lien
upon the bonds set apart by the Ticonic Bank to secure
the 'deposit of the trust department; and that this lien
had never been discharged or divested and so extended
to the proceeds of the Denmark bonds, which had been
sold by the receiver for $20,722.66. We do not pause to
state the conclusions of fact and of law by means of which
the lower courts arrived at this result, for in the grant
of the writ of certiorari this Court declined to review the
ruling that a statutory lien for the protection of the owners of the funds held for investment extended to the proceeds of the Denmark bonds, the lower courts having
predicated their decision in large part on the facts of this
particular case.
The decrees below did not end with the matters just
stated. The District Court, finding that the proceeds of
the bonds exceeded the trust funds on deposit,' held the
respondents entitled to payment in full of $3,649.65, the
amount to which the Sprague trust account had been
reduced, with interest from the date of the filing of the
bill of complaint. At first the Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed that part of the decree allowing interest, but on
rehearing it affirmed the decree in toto, approving the
allowance of interest out of the proceeds of the Denmark
bonds, which it assumed were sufficient to meet' with in'The total uninvested trust funds on deposit in the commercial
department of the Ticonic Bank amounted to about $10,000 at
the time of the sale of its assets, and to about $12,000 when the
Peoples-Ticonic Bank was closed in 1933.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Ccurt.

303 U. S.

terest the amount of all trust deposits. It ruled that
although the requirement of ratable distribution precludes
the recovery of interest against the general funds of an
insolvent national bank, the general creditors have no
rights in the trust funds here involved until after the secured claims are paid.
The attention of this Court was called to the fact that
the ruling conflicted with decisions in other circuits,
where secured creditors were held not entitled to any interest after the suspension of the national bank,' and for
this reason certiorari was granted, limited to this question of interest.
As an incident to the right to recover an unexpended
balance in a deposit, a depositor is entitled to interest as
damages for the failure to pay that balance upon demand.3 Compare Stewart v. Barnes, 153 U. S. 456, 462;
United States v. North Carolina, 136 U. S. 211, 216.
The bank's obligation to pay interest as damages for
the detention of the debt is not cut off by suspension of
its business and receivership. The principle has been established, and claimants held entitled to such interest, in
cases where the principal amount of each of the claims
was paid in full from the assets of the bank (National
Bank v. Mechanics' National Bank, 94 U. S. 437), including if necessary the double liability of the shareholders (Richmond v. Irons, 121 U. S. 27, 64).
' Richn n v. First Methodist Episcopal Church, 76 F. (2d) 344,
346 (C. C. A. 3d), certiorari denied, Long v. First Methodist Episcopal Church, 296 U. S. 593; Douglass v. Thurston County, 86 F.
(2d) 899, 909 (C. C. A. 9th); Fash v. First- National Bank, 89
F. (2d) 110, 112 (C. C. A. 10th).
3 We need not explore petitioner's suggestion, that if interest is
granted at all it should be measured from an earlier date than that
of the judicial demand contained in the bill of complaint, since
respondent has filed no cross-petition for certiorari complaining of
that restriction (Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S. 531, 536-538).

TICONIC BANK v. SPRAGUE.
406

Opinion of the Court.

It is true that in the liquidation of national banks,
dividends from the general funds on unsecured claims are
made pro rata upon the amount of each claim as of the
date of the insolvency, White v. Knox, 111 U. S. 784.
This method of distribution gives a proportional part
of the available funds tc each creditor, in accordance
with the statute requiring a "ratable dividend." R. S.
§ 5236. Whether the reason for this method of determining dividends is to avoid prejudice from the inevitable delay of court proceedings for liquidation (In re
Humber Ironworks & Shipbuilding Co., IV Ch. App.
Cas. 643, 646; American Iron & Steel Mfg. Co. v. Seaboard Air Line Ry., 233 U. S. 261, 266; cf. People v.
American Loan & Trust CoI, 172 N. Y. 371, 379; 65 N. E.
200); to facilitate administration (Sexton v. Dreyfus, 219
U. S. 339, 344; Chemical National Bank v. Armstrong,
59 Fed. 372, 378); or because on that date the creditors
acquire a right in rem against the assets in the hands of
the receiver (Chemical National Bank v. Armstrong,
supra, 379; Merrill v. National Bank of Jacksonville, 173
U. S. 131, 140; Sexton v. Dreyfus, supra, 345) is immaterial. Dividends are paid on that basis. It is in order
to assure equality among creditors jas of the date of insolvency that interest accruing thereafter is not considered. But interest is proper where the ideal of equality is
served, and so a creditor whose claim has been erroneously disallowed is entitled on its allowance to interest
on his dividends from the time a ratable amount was paid
other creditors. Armstrong v. American Exchange National Bank, 133 U. S. 433, 470.
The rule of White v. Knox, supra, does not require that
interest be denied to the secured creditors unless the principle of equality of distribution is to be applied as between
all creditors. Secured creditors have two sources of payment for their claims--the liability of the debtor and the

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Cour,

:30:3 U.S.

liability of the pledged or mortgaged assets. One is personal, the other in rein. The liability in personai of
the bank gives rise to a claim in rein against the free assets in the hands of the receiver; the claim in rem against
the security continues as a claim in rem against that same
security. With respect to the former the secured creditors
have merely the same rights as any general creditor, and
in so far as dividends are paid to secured creditors from
free assets, they share ratably with the unsecured creditors, and their claims bear interest to the same date, that
of insolvency. Compare Merrill v. National Bank of Jacksonville, 173 U. S. at 146; Aldrich v. Chemical National
Bank, 176 U. S. 618, 638. But to the extent that one debt
is secured and another is not there is manifestly an inequality of rights between the secured and unsecured
creditors, which cannot be affected by the principle of
equality of distribution (American Iron & Steel Mfg. Co.
v. Seaboard Air Line Ry., supra, at 266; Chemical National Bank v. Armstrong, supra, at 376-377), and interest accruing after insolvency may not be withheld on
account of that principle.
The rule as to the date to which interest is to be allowed on spcured claims sharing pro rata with unsecured
claims, cannot apply to the disposition of pledged or
mortgaged assets subject to the lien of individual creditors, unless we are to disregard the rights in these assets
prior to insolvency. But "liens, equities or rights arising
...prior to insolvency and not in contemplation thereof,
are not inalidated." Scott v. Armstrong, 146 U. S.
499, 510; Merrill v. National Bank of Jacksonville, 173
U. S. 131, 145. By contract or, as in this case, by statute, the secured creditors gain or are given a lien on or
right in property "in addition to their claim against the
estate of the bank." Section 11 (k) of the Federal Reserve Act as amended. The statutory lien prior to receivership withdrew the pledged security from the assets

TICONIC BANK v. SPRAGUE.
406

Opinion of the Court.

of the bank available to general creditors, in so far as
might be necessary to satisfy the lien. Though title to
the collateral was in the name of the bank, it was subject to this lien, and to that extent the property pledged
could not properly be said to belong to the bank for
purposes of distribution to creditors. Scott v. Armstrong, supra at 510.
As the obligation to pay interest is not destroyed by the
insolvency and as the rights of the secured creditor in
his collateral, contractual or statutory, are likewise unaffected, we are of the opinion that a secured creditor of
a national bank in receivership may enforce his lien
against his security, where it is sufficient to cover both
principal and interest, until his claim for both is satisfied.
With respect to analogous liquidations the
rule just
4
announced has long been in force. This Court has already held that a lienholder may look to his lien not
only for the principal but also for interest accruing up to
the date of payment, though his debtor has gone into
bankruptcy (Coder v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223, 245, affirming,
152 Fed. 943, 950) or into equity receivership (American
Iron & Steel Mfg. Co. v. Seaboard Air Line Ry., 233
U. S. 261), and though interest will be denied the unsecured creditors if the assets are insufficient to pay all
claims in full. Compare In re Humber Ironworks &
Shipbuilding Co., IV Ch. App. Cas. 643, with In re Humber Ironworks & Shipbuilding Co., V Ch. App. Cas. 88.
The same rule was applied to state banks in Washington-Alaska Bank v. Dexter Horton National Bank, 263
Fed. 304, 306.
4 Compare 7 Vin. Abr. 110: "A mortgagee shall have his interest
run on upon a bankrupt's estate, because he hath a right in rem,
but as to other interest, it ceaseth on the bankruptcy. Per Ld.
Chan. King, 18 July 1729."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Countel for Parties.

303 U. S.

Petitioners suggest that the rule just laid down may
have the effect of penalizing the unsecured creditors for
the precaution of the receiver in litigating doubtful claims
asserted against segregated assets. This could be true
only where the interest accruing to the secured creditors
during the pendency of the litigation exceeds the appreciation in value of, and the income from, the security.
And since in many cases if the receiver is successful his
conduct of the litigation will inure to the advantage of
the general creditors, they may fairly be charged with the
expenses of contesting the claim, including interest by
way of damages. Cf. Chemical National Bank v. Armstrong, supra, 59 Fed. at 384.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO- took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. WURTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 499.

Argued February 28, 1938.-Decided March 14, 1938.

Under § 610 of the Revenue Act of 1928, barring suits in the name
of the United States to recover -amounts erroneously refunded,
unless brought within two years "after the making of such refund," the period of limitation begins to rue, not from the time of
the allowance of the refund (the date when the Commissioner
approves the schedule of overasseasments), but from the time
of its payment. P. 416.
91 F. 2d 547, reversed.

302 U. S. 678, to review the affirmance of
a judgment for the taxpayer in a suit by the United States
to recover an erroneous refund of taxes.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Solicitor General Bell, Assistant Attorney Gen-

