ELECTRIC BOND CO. v. COMM'N.

419

Syllabus.

ELECTRIC BOND & SHARE CO. ET AL. V. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMM'N ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 636.

Argued February 7, 8, 9, f938.-)ecidcd March 28, 1938.

1. A system of holding companies controlled, through stock ownership, the operations of subsidiary companies which served gas and
electricity to the public in many States, partly in interstate commerce. Some of the holding companies were themselves partly
engaged in selling, purchasing or transmitting electricity across
state lines. The system furnished expert service, and performed
construction work, for the subsidiary utilities, and in so doing
made continuous and extensive use of the mails and the instrumentalities of interstate commerce. And such instrumentalities
were from time to time used in other transactions, such as the
distribution of securities. Held that the holding companies were
engaged .in activities within the reach of congressional regulation.
P. 431.
2. Section 5 of Title I of the Public Utility Act of Aug. 26, 1935,
requires holding companies, as defined, to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission and to file a registration statement giving information with respect to the organization, financial
structure and nature of the business of the registrants together
with various details of operations. Section 4 (a) prohibits the
use of the mails and the facilities of interstate commerce to those
companies which fail to register. Section 32 provides that if any
provision of the Title should be held invalid the others shall not
be affected. Held:
(1) The separability clause reverses the presumption of inseparability. P. 433.
(2) Sections 4 (a) and 5 are not so woven into the Title that
there is any inherent or practical difficulty in enforcing them
separately while reserving all questions as to the validity of the
other provisions of the Title. P. 434.
(3) Although registration underlies and precedes the application of the other regulatory provisions, §§ 4 (a) and 5 were
intended to be independently operative and enforceable as regulations requiring holding companies to furnish the information called
for by § 5 (b) in registration statements. P. 435..

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Statement of the Case.

303 U. S.

(4) The legislative history of the Act is consistent with this
view. P. 438.
3. Corporations' engaged in interstate commerce can not escape
regulation by acting through subsidiaries. P. 440.
4. In view of the relation of the holding companies in this case. to
interstate commerce, and to the national economy, Congress had
power to exact of them the information required by § 5 of Title I
of the Public Utility Act,- and to visit their failure with the
penalties prescribed by § 4 (a), restraining their use of interstate
commerce and postal facilities while they remain holding companies
and refuse to register. P. 439.
5. In a suit by the Securities and Exchange Commission under § 18
(f), Title I, Public Utility Act, brought to enforce only compliance
with §§-4 (a) and 5, the requirements and validity of the other
provisions of the Title not being involved in the actual controversy,-held that a counterclaim and cross-bill by which the defendants invoked the Federal Declaratory Judgment Act, and
sought to have the other provisions declared unconstitutional, was
properly dismissed. P. 443.
92 F. 2d 580, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 681, to review the affirmance
of a Aecree of the District Court which granted an injunction and dismissed a counterclaim and cross-bill' in

a suit against numerous corporations, brought by the
Securities and Exchange Commission under § 18 (f) of
Title I of the Public Utility Act of 1935. Other corporations had intervened in the District Court as defendants.

The injunction forbade the holding-company defendants,
as long as they continued to be holding companies and
failed to register, from using the mails or the facilities of
interstate commerce as banned by § 4 (a) of the Act.

The counterclaim and cross-bill prayed for a declaratory
judgment declaring the whole Title void, and that the

Commission and its members, the Attorney General and
the Postmaster General be enjoined from enforcing any
of its provisions. See the opinion of Mack, Circuit Judge,
in 18 F. Supp. 131.

ELECTRIC BONI) CO. v. COMM'N.
419

Argument for Petitiouers.

Messrs. Thomas D. Thacher and John F. MacLane,
with whom Messrs. Franik A. Reid and A. J. G. Priest
were on the brief, for petitioners.
The Act is wholly invalid because of its scope and allinclusive provisions. It inseparably commingles intrastate
and interstate companies and activities by common definitions and provisions and cannot be confined by judicial
limitation to companies or activities within the power of
Congress.
It must be regarded as a whole and read in its entirety
to determine the separability of any section or sections.
Particular sections cannot be isolated and considered in a
vacuum without regard to their setting and context and
their functional relationship to the.Act as a whole.
Thus reading §§ 4 (a) and 5 (separated by the decision of the courts below from the regulatory or control
provisions of the Act) it is clear that they are not a substantive regulation by themselves but are purely auxiliary
to such regulatory or control provisions, specifically § § 6
to 13.
Their inseparability is demonstrated by the declared
scope and purpose of the Act (§ 1) which makes manifest that it was the intention of Congress by its enactment
to control public utility hblding companies, even to the
point of their destruction.
In this light, §§ 6 to 13 (the control sections) are the
bone and sinew of the Act. They are the sections which
Congress relied upon to accomplish its declared purpose
of "eliminating" the evils in public utility holding company systems.
Sections 4 (a) and 5, reinforced by the heavy penalties
of 29, merely implement this system of controls. 4 (a)
coerces holding companies to register and thereby to submit to such controls. 5 (a) provides the mechanics for
registration, and 5 (b) provides for furnishing the basic

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Petitioners.

303 U.S.

information concerning the companies upon which the
controls specified by 6 to 13 are to operate.
Sections 4 (a) and 5 do not constitute a separable
system of regulation by publicity. Not only was no
such independent function intended, but, as demonstrated
by their relationship to the Act, they cannot perform
any such function. The contents of the registration
statement prescribed by § 5 (b) do not relate to, and
thus cannot regulate, the activities described by 4 (a),
but do relate to, and furnish the basic information for,
the application of the control system. The contents of
the registration statement may not be disclosed except
in the discretion of the Commission (22). Consequently,
regulation by publicity is not its function.
If §§ 4 (a) and 5 be regarded as a separable statutory
enactment, they are not a constitutional, valid and reasonable regulation of interstate commerce and the mails.
Section 5 (a) is not a regulation of commerce or the
mails, nor is it claimed to be. As previously shown, 5 (b)
relied upon alone to support the penalties of 4 (a) is
not regulatory of the transactions thereby prohibited nor
of any business in interstate commerce.
Considered alone, § 5 (b) is a naked grant of inquisitorial or visitatorial power and is invalid because not
an exercise of any constitutional power. Unless the Commission has some function to perform with respect to the
information furnished, it becomes an unlawful delegation
of legislative power to the Commission, since the form
and content are to be prescribed entirely by rules and
regulations of the Commission in its concept of the public
interest and the interest of investors and consumers.
Section 5 (b) cannot be supported by 4 (a), which,
being merely a penalty, cannot validate regulations with
which it coerces compliance.
Assuming power to exclude holding companies from
interstate business and normal use of the mails and in-

ELECTRIC BOND CO. v. COMM'N.
419

Argument for Petitioners.

strumentalities of interstate commerce, such power cannot be used to coerce compliance with unconstitutional
regulation. Standing by itself as a naked penalty, § 4 (a)
contravenes the Fifth, Sixth and Eighth Amendments
to the Constitution.
If, therefore, the decree. cannot be supported on the
foundation of §§ 4 (a) and 5 standing alone, it is necessary to find such support in the substantive regulatory
system of the Act, i. e., the controls of §§ 6 to 13.
These sections do not regulate interstate commerce or
the use of the mails. The companies which comprise
the electric and gas utility industry are not, as such, instrumentalities or agents of interstate commerce, nor is
their business, as such, interstate commerce. Some of
the companies do engage in particular business or transactions which constitute interstate commerce and which
may be regulated, but other companies do no such business. This Act predicates the regulation of all alike
merely on the holding company relationship and not upon
engagement in any business or activities which constitute or affect interstate commerce.
Nor are the control -ections predicated upon or confined to the regulation of activities constituting or directly affecting interstate commerce or the use of the
mails. They relate to the issue and sale of securities
(§§ 6-7); to the acquisition of assets or securities (§§
8-10); to sundry corporate and financial transactions
(§ 12); to the reorganization or dissolution of holding
company systems (§ 11); and to the performance of service, sales and construction contracts (§ 13). In none of
these sections is interstate commerce or the use of the
mails a condition of the regulation of a particular transaction, nor need the company whose transactions are so
regulated be engaged in interstate commerce or activities
directly affecting such commerce.

-OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Petitioners.

303 U. S.

Conversely, the Act invades the reserved powers of
the States, in violation of the Tenth Amendment, in its
interference with purely intrastate transactions, and in
its control of purely intrastate corporations in the exercise of charter powers given them by the States of their
incorporation.
The absence of any standard for the Commission's action in the various matters entrusted to its control, except
its untrammelled conception of the public interest and
the interest of investors and consumers, makes the Act
an unconstitutional delegation of legislative powers to
the Commission, in violation of Article I, § 1 of the
Constitution.
The Act is lacking in due process and offends against
the Fifth Amendment. Fundamentally, its essential concept is not regulation by prescribed standards of law, but
the transfer of control of corporations from their directors and stockholders to the Commission, in terms so
broad that management is transferred from the owners
of the property to the public. This power extends to the
control of their essential activities, and even to the disposal of their property and assets, and the reorganization
of the companies themselves.
If the decree of the court below is correct in requiring
defendants to register, on the theory of the separability
of §§ 4 (a) and 5 unsupported by the control provisions, the defendants, being under a duty to register, and
being threatened with irreparable injury by the controls of the Act, have a right to relief under their crossbill either by way of injunction or declaratory judgment,
against those control sections which become applicable
to them immediately upon registration.
If the holding companies themselves have not the right
to question these controls by their cross-bill, the intervening subsidiary defendants, immediately affected in all

ELECTRIC BONI) CO. v. COMM'N.
419

Argument For RespondCnts.

respects equally with their parent holding companies by
the registration of the latter, have the right by their
intervention and cross-bills to obtain an adjudication as
to whether or not the conttols of the Act to which they
are thereby subjected are constitutional as to them.
Assistant Attorney General Jackson and Mr. Benjamin
V. Cohen., with whom Attorney General Cummings, Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Solicitor General Bell, and
Messrs. Allen E. Throop, Thomas G. Corcoran, Paul A.
Freund,John J. Abt, and Frederick B. Wiener were on the
brief, for respondents.
The bill and answer involve solely the validity of the
registration provisions.
The registration provisions are not inherently inseparable from the other provisions of the Act. Compliance
with them does not prejudice the right of a registrant to
contest other provisions. They are capable of separate
operation and enforcement.
The legislative history of the Act corroborates the presumption of separability.
. The registration provisions are a substantial regulatory measure in themselves and would not be too fragmentary to stand alone.
Defendants can not attack provisions of the Act not
otherwise in controversy merely to show that the registration provisions would be -too fragmentary to stand if
such other provisions were invalid.
The registration provisions are a valid exercise of the
federal power over interstate commerce and the mails.
The activities enumerated in § 4 (a) are subject to
federal regulation by the informatory process.
Congress has the power to prevent the use of the
channels of interstate commerce and the postal facilities
for a purpose or in a manner deemed contrary to sound
public policy.

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of thc Court.

303 U.S.

The power of Congress under the commerce clause is
,not limited to forbidding the transportation of articles
intrinsically harmful.
The question Qf the power of Congress to meet evils
which are not spread or perpetuated by the use of the
channels of interstate comnerce is not here involved.
The power of Congress to regulate the use of the channels of interstate commerce or the mails is not abridged
by the fact that the use of such channels of intercourse
is incidental or sporadic or is not the major activity of
the user.
The registration provisions do not violate any
rights
guaranteed to the defendants under the Fifth Amendment.
They involve no unconstitutional delegation of
power.
The cross-bill presented no case or controversy but
sought only an advisory opinion on hypothetical facts.
As a suit for an injunction, the cross-bill, in the absence
of threats of enforcement by the cross-defendants, presents no controversy with them.
As a suit for a declaratory judgment, the cross-bill, in
the absence of threats of enforcement by the cross-defendants, presents no "actual controversy" with them.
. Even if the cross-bill had presented a controversy
with
the cross-defendants, the District Court could not properly.
have granted defendants an injunction or declaratory
judgment because they have proved no damage, irreparable or otherwise.
Defendants do not seek equity with clean hands in
bringing, before they have registered, a cross-bill which
presupposes that their failure to register is unlawful.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Securities and Exchange Commission brought this
suit to enforce the provisions of §, 4 (a) and 5 of the

ELECTRIC BOND CO. v. COMM'N.
419

Opinion of the Court.

Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. 49 Stat.
803, 812, 813. These sections provide for registration
with the Commission of holding companies, as defined,
§ 5 (a), and prohibit the use of the mails and the instrumentalities of interstate commerce to those companies which fail to register. § 4 (a). Section 5 (b)
provides for the filing of a registration statement giving
information with respect to the organization, financial
structure and nature of the business of the registrant,
together with various details of operations.
Defendants, including intervenors, contested the validity of these provisions and sought by cross bill a declaratory judgment that the Act was invalid in its entirety,
as being in excess of the powers granted to Congress by
§ 8 of Article I, and in violation of § 1 of Article I and
of the Fifth and Tenth Amendments, of the Constitution
of the United States. The District Court sustained the
validity of §§ 4 (a) and 5, and granted an injunction
accordingly. The cross bill was dismissed for want of
equity and for lack of any actual controversy within the
meaning of the Federal Declaratory Judgment Act of
1934. 18 F. Supp. 131. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed the decree. 92 F. (2d) 580. Certiorari was
granted.
The suit was brought against the Electric Bond and
Share Company and fourteen associated public utility
companies. Of these, it appears that seven have ceased
to be holding companies within the meaning of the Act,
two I before the cause was heard by the District Court
and five 2 since the decree. The remaining companies
against whom the decree of injunction runs are Electric
Bond and Share Company, American Gas and Electric
'Idaho Power Company and The Montana Power Company.
'United Gas Corporation, United Gas Public Service Company,
Houston Gulf Gas Company, Nebraska Power Company, and Power
Securities Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of 1he Court.

303 U.S.

Company, American Power & Light Compaiiy, National
Power & Light Company, Electric Power & Light Corporation, Lehigh Power Securities Corporation, Utah
Power & Light Company, and Pacific Power & Light
Company.
The decree provides in substance, as to each of these
defendants, that *after a day specified and until such defendant shall cease to be a holding company as defined in
the Act, or shall register with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as provided in § 5 (a), it shall not carry on
any of the activities in interstate commerce or through
the mails which are forbidden to non-registered, holding
companies by Paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4) and (6) of
§ 4 (a). The provisions of §§ 4 (a) and 5 are set forth
in the margin.8
"'See. 4. (a). After December 1, 1935, unless a holding company
is registered under section 5, it shall be unlawful for such holding
company, directly or indirectly"(1) to sell, transport, transmit, or distribute, or own or operate
any utility assets for the transportation, transmission, or distribution
of, natural or manufactured gas or electric energy in interstate commerce;
"(2) by use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, to negotiate, enter into, or take any step in the
performance of, any service, sales, or construction contract undertaking to perform services or construction work for, or sell goods to, any
public-utility company or holding company;
"(3) to distribute or make any public offering for sale or exchange
of any security of such holding company, any subsidiary company
or affiliate of such holding company, any public-niility compny, or
any holding company, by use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, or to sell any such security having
reason to believe that such security, by use of the mails or any
means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, will be distributed
or made the subject of a public offering;
"(4) by use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, to acquire or negotiate for the acquisition of any
security or utility assets of any subsidiary company or affiliate of

ELECTRIC BOND CO. v. COMM'N.
419

Opinion of the Court.

The decree further provides that the injunction and the
dismissal of the cross bill shall be without prejudice "to
any rights or remedies in law or in equity" which defendants may have after registration, and leaves defendants
free to challenge the validity of any of the provisions of
the Act other than § 4 (a) and 5. The dismissal of the
such holding company, any public-utility company, or any holding
company;
"(5) to engage in any business in interstate commerce; or
"(6) to own, control, or hold with power to vote, any security of
any subsidiary company thereof that does any of the acts enumerated in paragraphs (1) to (5), inclusive, of this subsection.
"Sec. 5. (a) On or at any time after October 1, 1935, any holding
company or any person [sic] purposing to become a holding company
may register by filing with the Commission a notification of registration, in such form as the Commission may by r,Jes and regulations
prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the
protection of investors or consumers. A person shall be deemed to be
registered upon receipt by the Commission of such notification of
registration.
"(b) It shall be the duty of every registered holding company to
file with the Commission, within such reasonable time after registration as the Commission shall fix by rules and regulations or order,
a registration statement in such form as the Commission shall by
rules and regulations or order prescribe as necessary or appropriate
inthe public interest or for the protection of investors or consumers.
Such registration statement shall include"(1) such copies of the charter or articles of incorporation, part.-rship, or agreement, with all amendments thereto, and the bylaws,
•trust Lidentures, mortgages, underwriting arrangements, voting-trust
agreements, and similar documents, by whatever name known, of or
relating to the registrant or any of its associate companies as the
Commission may by rules and regulations or order prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of
investors or consumers;
"(2) such information in such form and in such detail relating to,
and copies of such documents of or relating to, the registrant and its
assooiate companies as the Commission may by rules and regulations

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

cross bill is also declared to be without prejudice "to any
rights or remedies in law or in equity" which the intervening defendants "may have or be entitled to upon the Act
or order prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest
or for the protection of investors or consumers in respect of"(A) the organization and financial structure of such companies
and the nature of their business;
"(B) the terms, position, rights, and privileges of the different
classes of their securities outstanding;
"(C) the terms and underwriting arrangements under which their
securities, during not more than the five preceding years, have been
offered to the public or otherwise disposed of and the relations of
underwriters to, and their interest in, such companies;
"(D) the directors and officers of such companies, their remuneration, their interest in the securities of, their material contracts with,
and their borrowings from, any of such companies;
"(E) bonus and profit-sharing arrangements;
"(F) material contracts, not made in the ordinary course of business, and service, sales, and construction contracts;
"(G) options in respect of securities;
"(H) balance sheets for not more than the five preceding fiscal
years, certified, if required by the rules and regulations of the Commission, by an independent public accountant;
"(I) profit and loss statements for not more than the five preceding fiscal years, certified, if required by the rules and regulations of
the Commission, by an independent public accountant;
"(3) such further information' or documents regarding the registrant or its associate companies or the relations between them as the
Commission may by rules and regulations or order prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of
investors or consumers.
"(c) The Commission by such rules and regulations or order as it
deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors or consumers, may permit a registrant to file a
preliminary registration statement without complying with the provisions of subsection (b); but every registrant shall file a complete
registration statement with the Commission within such reasonable
period of time as the Commission shall fix by rules and regulations
or order, but not later than one year after the date of registration.
"(d) Whenever the Commission, upon application, finds that a
registered holding company has ceased to be a holding company, it

ELECTRIC BOND CO. v. COMM'N.
419

Opinion of the Court.

being made applicable to them by the registration of any
holding company of which they are subsidiary companies."
All rights of defendants, including intervenors, are thus
fully reserved with respect to the application to them of
any provision of the Act outside of those contained in the
particular sections which are enforced by the decree.
Petitioners insist that the Act is invalid as a whole; that
the provisions of §§-4 (a) and 5 are not separable from
the remainder; that these provisions, if separately considered, do not constitute a valid regulation of interstate
commerce and the mails; and that the cross bill preseaited a controversy upon the merits of which the defendants, including intervenors, were entitled to the'judgment
of the court.'
First. The initial question is whether the defendant
companies, against which the decree for injunction runs,
are engaged in activities which bring them within the
ambit of congressional authority. Upon this point there
seems to be no serious controversy, and for the purpose
of the present decision we do not find it necessary to make
a comprehensive statement of the corporate setup and
operations of the respective defendants. The facts were
fully set forth in an elaborate stipulation which underlay
the findings of fact of the trial court. A brief statement
addressed to the point now under consideration will suffice.
Electric Bond and Share Company is styled in the
findings as "the top holding company" in "a holding-company system" in which all the other defendants and intervening defendants'together with numerous other companies are subsidiaries. Electric P na and Share Company owns substanitial minoriti .s of the voting stocks
shall so declare by order and upon the taking effect of such order the
registration of such company shall, upon such terms and conditions
as the Commission finds and in such order prescribes as necessary
for the protection of investors, cease to be in effect. The denial of
any such application by the Commission shall be by order."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

of the defendants American Gas and Electric Company, American Power & Light Company, National
Power & Light Company, and Electric Power & Light

Corporation. These companies in turn own directly or
through subholding companies substantial majorities, in
some cases approximating complete ownership and in
all cases sufficient to insure voting control, of the common stocks of operating gas and electric utilities. The
t'electric operations" of subsidiaries in the Bond and Share
system are conducted in thirty-two States. Some operate
only within a single State, some in two or more States,
transmitting energy across state lines for their own account, and some sell energy at wholesale in interstate
commerce.
Until shortly prior to the institution of this suit Elec-

tric Bond and Share Company rendered services to both
holding and operating companies under service contracts. After the approval of the Act, it formed a whollyowned subsidiary, Ebasco Services Incorporated, to take
over the servicing of the operating companies, and the
servicing of the holding companies was discontinued.
The performance of service contracts by Ebasco, operating as a subsidiary and on behalf of Electric Bond and
Share Company, constitutes an extensive business in rendering continuous expert, specialized, and technical service, advice, and assistance to the serviced companies upon
every phase of the utility enterprise. Phoenix Engineering Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ebasco,
performs construction work for subsidiary public-utility
companies in the Bond and Share system. The American
Gas and Electric Company also perfoims services for subsidiary operating companies.
We need not go further in the description of the operations of these Companies, as petitioners concede that
the carrying out of these service contracts, as fouid by the
trial court, involves continuous and extensive use of the

ELECTRIC BOND CO. v. COMM'N.
419

Opinion of the Court.

mails and instrumentalities of interstate commerce, al.
though petitioners are careful to qualify the concession
by saying that they agree with the trial court that "this
is not to say that the entire business of Ebasco or American Gas constitutes interstate commerce and is therefore subject to unlimited federal regulation."
Petitioners also state with respect to American Power &
Light Company, National Power & Light Company, and
Electric Power & Light Corporation, that while it is insisted that these are simply investment holding companies aid that their business as such is not interstate
commerce, they may "from time to time engage in
transactions in interstate commerce or may use the instrumentalities of interstate commerce in particular transactions, such as the distribution of securities, in such manner that those particular activities become the subject of
federal regulation."
The trial court found that one or more subsidiary electric-utility companies of Lehigh Power Securities Corporation "are regularly engaged in selling, purchasing,
or transmitting some electric energy across state lines";
and that Utah Power & Light Company and Pacific
Power & Light Company are both holding companies and
electric-utility companies and that the transmission of
electric energy across state lines is part of the enterprise
of each.
In the light of the findings supported by the stipulation, we perceive no ground for a conclusion that the defendant companies which are enjoined are not engaged in
activities within the reach of the congressional power.
Second. Challenging the validity of the Act in its entirety, petitioners contend that §§ 4 (a) and 5 cannot
be separated from the other provisions of the Act and
thus be separately sustained and enforced. They urge
that these sections are purely auxiliary to the subsequent
or "control provisions" of the Act (§§ 6 to 13) ; that the
53383o-3S-28

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

object of this suit is to compel submission to an integrated system of control and that the sole question is
whether the Act as a whole, "or enough to accomplish its
general plan," is constitutional. They insist that this
question must be determined before they may be compelled to register.
(1) In this branch of the case, petitioners address their
argument to the intent of Congress, rather than to its
power. But Congress has defined its intent as to separability. Section 32 of the Act provides:
"If any provision of this title " or the application of
such provision to any 'person dr circumstances shall be
held invalid, the remainder of the title and the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other
than those as to which it is held invalid shall not be
affected thereby."
This provision reverses the presumption of inseparability-that the legislature intended the Act to be effective as an entirety or not at all. Congress has established the opposite presumption of divisibility. Williams
v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S. 235, 242; Utah Power &
Light 'Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165, 184; Champlin Refining Co. v. CorporationCommission, 286 U. S. 210, 235.
Congress has thus said that the statute is not an integrated whole, which as such must be sustained or held
invalid. On the contrary, when validity is in question, divisibility and not integration is the guiding principle.
Invalid parts are to be excised .and the remainder enforced. When we are seeking to ascertain the congressional purpose, we must give heed to this explicit declaration.
(2) It is evident that the provisions of §§ 4 (a) and 5
are not so interwoven with the other provisions of the
4The

panies."

"title" is "Title I-Control of Public-Utility Holding Com-

ELECTRIC BOND CO. v. COMM'N.
419

435

Opinion of the Court.

Act that there is any inherent or practical difficulty in the
separation and independent enforcement of the former
while reserving all questions as to the validity of the
latter. The administrative construction of the statute
was formulated in that view. Rule 4 of the Commission
provided that any person, in filing any statement under
the Act, might include an express reservation of constitutional and legal -rights. It was on the basis of that
construction that this suit was prosecuted and was limited
to the enforcement of §§ 4 (a) and 5. All rights and
remedies as to all other provisions of the Act are, as we
have seen, expressly reserved to the defendants by the decree. Nor can it be said that this reservation is illusory.
If this decree is affirmed, it will constitute a specific adjudication that registration will be without prejudice to
future challenge of the validity of any provision of the
Act, or requirement of the Commission, outside of §§
4 (a) and 5. It is idle to contend that registration pursuant to the decree will subject the defendants to the Act
as an integrated whole or bring into operation against
them what the decree expressly excludes.
(3) Although there is no practical obstacle to the separate enforcement of the provisions of §§ 4 (a) and 5, the
argument is pressed that in reason and design there is an
essential unity of these provisions and the so-called "control provisions" which forbids such enforcement. Petitioners urge that §§ 4 (a) and 5 "merely implement the
system of controls"; that the policy of the Act as declared
in § 1 (c) is to compel "the simplification and the eliminination of holding company systems"; and that the objective cannot be attained by informatory processes but
only by such regulation or control as will "eliminate" the
evils.
The Government replies that while the other provisions are applicable only to registered companies and their
subsidiaries, §§ 4 (a) and 5 are drafted so as to be opera-.

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U.S.

tive independently and that the registration provisions
themselves constitute "an effective instrument of informatory regulation." "If, for example," argues the Government, "section 11 dealing with corporate reorganizations
were adjudged invalid, there is no inherent reason why
the other regulatory provisions could not be enforced as
the Congress provided. And if section 13 dealing with
service contracts were adjudged invalid, there is no inherent reason why the registration provisions, or sections
6 and 7 regulating security issues; or sections 8, 9 and 10
dealing with utility acquisitions, could not be administered in accordance with their terms." "Likewise," it is
said, "the purpose and effect of the registration provision-regulation by the informatory process-are the
same whether registration is considered as a separate statute regulating utility holding companies, or as but one
part of a comprehensive statute containing many different regulations of utility holding companies." More-.
over, as observed by the District Court, § 1 (j) in its
entirety negatives any conclusion that the simplification
and elimination of holding companies "is the sole policy
or the whole end and object of the Act, which, as stated,
is 'to meet the problems and elimin ate the evils, as enumerated in this section, connected with public utility
holding companies,'" and thus "simplification and elimination" are' but a means and not "the exclusive means"
deemed to be essential for the purpose of effectuating such
policy "in whole or insofar as may be constitutionally
possible."
We think that the manner in which the Act is framed
and the variety of provisions it contains, when viewed
in the light of the presumption of divisibility, justify that
conclusion. The fact that registration underlies the application of subsequent requirements of the statute does
not prevent the provisions of §§ 4 (a) and 5 from having
a.purpose and a valuz of their o,. .m. Section 5 not only

ELECTRIC BOND CO. v. COMM'N.
419

Opinion of the Court.

provides in paragraph (a) for the filing of a "notification
of registration" but also requires by paragraph (b) every
registered holding company to submit, within a reasonable time after registration, a "registration statement"
containing a variety of detailed information .as to corporate structure and activities. Thus § 5 (b) is itself a "control" provision, which is immediately operative. The
duty to supply the described information is separately
and definitely prescribed.
It cannot be denied that a requirement of this sort is a
regulation which Congress could have regarded as important in itself and could, have made the subject of a separate statute. The fact that it is found in a statute
imposing other regulations, or that it precedes the application of the others, does not deprive it of its essential
character and its capacity to stand alone. Regulation requiring the submission of information is a familiar category. Information bearing upon activities which are
within the range of congressional power may be sought
not only by congressional investigation as an aid to appropriate legislation, but through the continuous supervision of an administrative body. See Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 474;
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Goodrich Transit
Co., 224 U. S. 194, 211; American Telephone & Telegraph
Co. v. United States, 299 U. S. 232, 235, 237. Congress
may use this method in connection with a comprehensive
scheme of regulation, as, for example, in the case of the
Interstate Commerce Commission and the Federal Com.
munications Commission; or Conigress may employ this.
informatory process independently. An illustration of the
latter is found in the statute relating to newspapers and
periodicals, enjoying the privileges accorded to second
class mail, which requires an annual statement setting
forth the names and addresses of the editor, publisher,
business manager, owner, and, in case of ownership by a

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U.S.

corporation, the stockholders, and also the names of
known bondholders or other security holders, together
with a statement as to circulation. 39 U. S. C. 233. See
Lewis Publishing Co. v. Morgan, 229 U. S. 288.
Petitioners refer to the limitations upon publicity contained in § 22 and contrast this provision with that of
the Securities Act of 1933, § 6 (d), 48 Stat. 74, 78. But
§ 22 provides that the information shall be available to
the public when in the judgment of the Commission its
disclosure would be in the public interest or the interest
of investors or consumers. The limitations are plainly intended to safeguard particular information which may be
regarded as of a private or confidential character and as
not directly concerning the public interest. They do not
detract from the value which may be deemed to attach
to the requirement that the described information should
be furnished, whether as an aid to legislation or as facilitating administrative supervision or as securing a desirable publicity.
Both parties invoke the legislative history of the Act.
Petitioners contend that this shows that control, not publicity, was intended. The Government insists that the
legislative history supports the presumption of separability. It is unnecessary to review the details of the arguments or the cited statements from the legislative halls.
The Act speaks for itself with sufficient clarity. The
Government points to six groups of regulatory provisions
contained in the Act, viz., registration (§§ 4 and 5); issuance of securities (§§ 6 and 7); acquisition of securities
and utility assets (§§ 8, 9 and 10); corporate simplification
and reorganization (§ 11); service contracts and other
inter-company transactions (§§ 12 and 13); and reports
and accounts (§§ 14 and 15). We see nothing in the legislative history of the Act which requires the conclusion
that all these groups were intended to constitute a unitary
system, no part of which can fail without destroying the

ELECTRIC BOND CO. v. COMM'N.
419

Opinion 'of the Court.

rest. On the contrary, we think that the intent of Congress is that these various groups of regulations, as well
as particular provisions of each group,-should be regarded
as separable so that, if any such group or provision should
be found to be invalid, that invalidity should not extend
to the remaining parts if by reason of their nature and as
a practical matter they could be separately sustained and
enforced.
Congress provided in § 18 (f) that the Commission
might bring an action to enforce compliance with the
Act or any rule, regulation or order thereunder, and that
upon a proper showing a permanent or temporary injunction or decree should be granted. In pursuance of that
authority, the present action was brought solely to enforce
the provisions of §§ 4 (a) and 5. We find no basis for
holding that these provisions cannot be separately enforced if they are valid and we turn to that question.
In view of this conclusion as to separability, it is unnecessary to go through the statute in order to determine
whether other provisions are valid or invalid, and we do
not intimate that there would not be found in any event
a workable system in addition to the registration sections.
Third. Petitioners contend that, standing by themselves, §§ 4 (a) and 5 transgress constitutional restrictions. These sections have three parts. Section 5 (a)
provides for the filing of a notification of registration.
Section 5 (b) makes it the duty of every registered holding
company to file a registration statement, with documents
and certain detailed information, within a reasonable time
after registration. Section 4 (a) prespribes the penalty
for failure to register under. § 5. As the requirement of
information is in itself a permissible and useful type of
regulation (Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brim.
son, supra; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Goodrich
Transit Co.,supra;American Telephone & Telegraph Co.
v. United States, supra), the question is whether the par-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U.S.

ticular demand, here assailed, can be validly addressed to
the defendants enjoined by the decree, and, if so, whether
it exceeds constitutional limits because of the character
and extent of the information sought.
The findings of the District Court based upon the stipulation of facts leave no room for doubt that these defendants are engaged in transactions in interstate commerce. That they conduct such transactions through the
instrumentality of subsidiaries cannot avail to remove
them from the reach of the federal power. It is the
substance of what they do, and not the form in which
they clothe their transactions, which must afford the test.
The constitutional authority confided to Congress could
not be maintained if it were deemed to depend upon the
mere modal arrangements of those seeking to escape its
exercise. Compare Northern Securities Co. v. United
States, 193 U. S. 197. We need not now determine to
what precise extent these defendants are actually engaged
in interstate commerce. It is enough that they do have
continuous and extensive operations in that commerce,
and Congress cannot be denied the power to demand the
information which would furnish a guide to the regulation necessary or appropriate in the national interest.
Regulation is addressed to practices which appear to need
supervision, correction or control. And to determine what
regulation is essential or suitable, Congress is entitled to
consider and to estimate whatever evils exist.
Congress has set forth in the Act what it considers to
be the factual situation and the need of federal supervision. The following statement is found in paragraph
(a) of § 1:
"Public-utility holding companies and their subsidiary
companies are affected with a national public interest in
that, among other things; (1) their securities are widely
marketed and distributed by means of the mails and instrumentalities of interstate commerce and are sold to a

ELECTRIC BOND CO. v. COMM'N.
419

Opinion of the CourL

large number of investors in different States; (2) their
service, sales, construction, and other contracts and arrangements are often made and performed by means of
the mails and instrumentalities of interstate commerce;
(3) their subsidiary public-utility companies often sell
and transport gas and electric energy by the use of means
and instrumentalities of interstate commerce; (4) their
practices in respect of and control over subsidiary companies often materially affect the interstate commerce in
which those companies engage; (5) their activities extending over many States are not susceptible of effective
control by any State and make difficult, if not impossible,
effective State regulation of public-utility companies."
Congress has further declared in paragraph (b) of that
section, upon the basis of facts disclosed by the reports of
the Federal Trade Commission and of the Committee on
Interstate and Foreign Commerce of fhe House of Representatives, and otherwise ascertained, the circumstances

in which the national interest and the interest of investors and consumers may be adversely affected by the
operation of public utility holding companies. And after

this catalogue of the abuses which may exist in the circumstances described, Congress declares it to be its policy
"to meet the problems and eliminate the evils as enumerated in this section, connected with public-utility
holding companies which are engaged in interstate commerce or in activities which directly affect or burden
interstate commerce." Without attempting to state the
limits of permissible regulation in the execution of this
declared policy, we have no reason to doubt that from,
these defendants, with their highly important relation to
interstate commerce and the national economy, Congress
was entitled to demand the fullest information as to
organization, financial structure and all the activities
which could have any bearing upon the exercise of congressional authority.

The regulation found in § 5 (b)

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opi)ion of the Court.

3031 U. s.

goes no further than to re(lire this information and
we are of. the opinion that its validity must be sustained.
Section 4 (a) prescribes the penalty for failure to register under § 5, and that section as an incident to registration imposes the duty to file the described registration
statement. Treating the requirements of §§ 4 (a) and 5 as
a separable part of the Act, the question is whether that
penalty may be validly imposed.
In the imposition of penalties for the violation of its
rules, Congress has a wide discretion. Sanctions may be
of various types. See Helvering v. Mitchell, ante, p. 391.
They may involve the loss of a privilege which would
otherwise be enjoyed. Id. Note 2. When Congress lays
down a valid rule to govern those engaged in transactions
in interstate commerce, Congress may deny to those who
violate the rule the right to engage in such transactions.
Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S.-321; United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 415; Brooks v. United
States, 267 U. S. 432, 436, 437; Gooch v. United States,
297 U. S. 124; Kentucky Whip & Collir Co. v. Illinois
Central R. Co., 299 U. S. 334, 346, 347. And while Congress may no exercise its control over the mails to enforce
a requirement which lies outside its constitutional province, when Congress lays down a valid regulation pertinent
to the use of the mails, it may withdraw the privilege of
that use from those who disobey. Champion v. Ames,
supra; Lewis Publishing Co. v. Morgan, 229 U. S. 288.
In the instant case, the penalty attaches to the use of
the instrumentalities of commerce and of the mails by
those who, engaged in that use, refuse to submit to § 5
and thus through registration and the statement which is
incident to registration to supply the information which
Congress is entitled to demand, and has demanded, with
respect to their organization and practices. Each one of
the paragraphs of § 4 (a), as related to the requirements
of § 5, is addressed to those in that class. We think

ELECTRIC BOND CO. v. COMM'N.
419

Opinion of the Court.

that the imposition of such a penalty (loes not transgress
any constitutional provision.
The decree enforces this penalty by injunction as the
Act itself authorizes. § 18 (f). The terms of the injunction follow closely the provisions of § 4 (a) and do
not extend beyond them. To escape the penalty and the
enforcing provisions of the decree, all that the defendants
have to do is to register with the Commission and assume,
under § 5, the obligation to file the described registration
statement. All their rights and remedies with respect to
other provisions of the statute remain without prejudice.
Their objections to the affirmative provisions of the decree
are untenable.
Fourth. The District Court did not err in dismissing the
cross bill. Defendants are not entitled to invoke the Federal Declaratory Judgment Act in order to obtain an advisory decree upon a hypothetical state of facts. See New
Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328; United States v. West
Virginia, 295 U. S. 463; Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley
Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 324; Anniston Manufacturing
Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 337, 355. By the cross bill, defendants seek a judgment that each and every provision of the
Act is unconstitutional. It presents a variety of hypothetical controversies which Inay never become real. We
are invited to enter irto a speculative inquiry for the purpose of condemning statutory provisions the effect of
which in concrete situations, not yet developed, cannot
now be definitely perceived. We must decline that invitation. Anniston ManufacturingCo. v. Davis, supra.
The decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

dissents.

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZo and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration and decision of this case.

