OCTOBER TERM, 1937.

272

Counsel for Parties.

303 U. S.

We have considered but find it unnecessary to comment upon other objections to the order, of less
moment.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v.
PACIFIC GREYHOUND LINES, INC.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
NINTH

No. 504.

OF

APPEALS FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued February 4, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

1. National Labor Relations Board v. Penns9ylvania Greyhound
Lines, ante, p. 261, followed.
2. The evidence and subsidiary findings in this case support the
conclusion of the National Labor Relations Board that continued recognition of a company union by an employer would
be a continuing obstacle to the exercise of the employees' right
of self-organization and of collectively bargaining through representatives of their own choosing, and justified its order requiring
the employer to withdraw all recognition of such union and give
appropriate notice of the withdrawal to employees. P. 275.
91 F. 2d 458, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 679, to review a judgment setting
aside, in part, an order of the National Labor Relations

Board, upon a petition for its enforcemen .
Mr. Charles Fahy, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Solicitor General Bell, and Messrs. Robert L.
Stern, Robert B. Watts, and Laurence A. Knapp were on

the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Ivan Bowen, with whom Mr. M. H. Boutelle was

on the brief, for respondent.

LABOR BD. v. PACIFIC LINES.
272

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
This case, which comes here on certiorari to the Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, presents the same issues
discussed in No. 413, National Labor Relations Board v.
Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, ante, p. 261, but on a
somewhat different state of facts. The only question
requiring separate consideration is whether, in the case
in which the National Labor Relations Board has ordered respondent to cease certain unfair labor practices,
including the domination and financial support of a company union, the facts justify its further order that respondent withdraw all recognition of the union and give
appropriate notice of the withdrawal to employees.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit sustained
the Board's findings and all of its order except the affirinative parts relating to withdrawal of recognition of the
company union, which it set aside. 91 F. (2d) 458. The
authority conferred on the Board by § 10 (c) of the National Labor Relations Act to direct withdrawal of employer recognition when such an order will carry out the
policies of the National Labor Relations Act was considered and sustained in the Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines
case, supra. The question ca.lling for attention here is
whether the facts found by the Board afford a basis for its
conclusion that the policies of the Act will be effectuated
by the present order.
The findings show that respondent, an interstate carrier
by motor bus, took an active and leading part in the
organization in 1933 of the Drivers' Association, a labor
organization of its employees; that respondent had since
continuously interfered with and dominated the internal
administration of the Association, and contributed to its
support; that through such domination it had obtained a
°

5:i S8:i- 2:S---

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

"working agreement" with the Association in which it
was stipulated that grievances of any employee should be
presented first to his superior officer and then to respondent's president, whose decision should be final.
Before the enactment of the National Labor Relations
Act, respondent twice made successful use of the Association as a means to forestall attempts to organize its employees, one in 1933 by the Brotherhood of Locomotive
Engineers and Firemen, and another in 1934 by the employees themselves who sought to establish a Brotherhood
of Motor Coach Operators. Respondent's officers were
active in persuading, threatening and coercing employees
to join or remain members of the Drivers' Association,
and not to join the rival unions. In 1935, following the
passage of the National Labor Relations Act, there was
a renewed but unsuccessful attempt by respondent's employees to establish an organization affiliated with the
Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Firemen. The
attempt was met by persuasions and warnings of respondent's employees, by its officers, not to join the new
union, and by threats of discharge if they should join.
The Board found that the respondent had engaged in unfair labor practices in violation of § 8 (1), (2), and ordered the cessation of these practices and withdrawal of
respondent's recognition of the Drivers' Association.
While the formal provisions, in constitution and bylaws, for insuring employer control of the company union
in the Pennsylvania case are wanting here, the record
shows, as the Board found, that employer control of the
Drivers' Association was none the less effective. During
a period of three years it had been successfully used by
respondent as an instrument for preventing three successive attempts for the organization by respondent's employees of a union free from company domination. In

LABOR BD. v. PACIFIC LINES.
272

Opinion of the Court.

ordering withdrawal of recognition of the Drivers' Association by respondent, the Board pointed out that a mere
order to cease the unfair labor practices "would not set
free the employee's impulse to seek the organization
which would most effectively represent him"; that continued recognition of the Drivers' Association would provide respondent "with a device by which its power may
now be made effective unobtrusively, almost without further action on its part. Even though he would not have
freely chosen" the Association "as an initial proposition,
the employee, once having chosen, may by force of a
timorous habit, be held firmly to his choice. The employee must be released from these compulsions."
Whether the continued recognition of the Drivers' Association by respondent would be a continuing obstacle
to the exercise of the employees' right of self-organization
and to bargain collectively through representatives of
their own choosing, was an inference of fact which the
Board could draw if there was evidence to support it.
Section 10 (e); see Swayne & Hoyt v. United States, 300
U. S. 297. We cannot say that the Board's conclusion
was without support in the evidence and in the subsidiary
findings which respondent does not challenge.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.

