U. S. v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO.
226

239

Syllabus.

United States." And the United States can be sued
only when authority so to do has been specifically conferred.
The Railway Mail Pay Act does not confer that
authority.
Decree reversed-with direction to the District Court
to dismiss the bill without costs to either party.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK agrees with the result and fully
with all of the opinion except paragraph Fourth.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 352. Argued January 14, 17, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.
Cattle in a railway car were brought to the place where they were

to be unloaded for water, feed and rest, as required by the Act
of June 29, 1906, arriving there before the period allowed by
the Act for their continuous confinement in the car had expired,
but unloading was delayed beyond that period owing to the fact
that the carrier's yardmaster, aware of the situation, negligently

failed to notify another employee of the carrier whose duty it,

was to unload them. Held that the carrier "knowingly and willfully" failed to comply with the statute and was subject to the
penalty thereby prescribed. P. 242.
In statutes denouncing offenses involving turpitude, "willfully"
is generally used to mean with evil purpose, criminal intent or
the like; but in those denouncing acts not in themselves wrong
1' Compare Judicial Code § 211, 36 Stat. 542, 1150, as amended, 38
Stat. 219, 28 U. S. C. § 48; Lambert Run Coal Co. v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co., 258 U. S. 377, 3S2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

it often denotes conduct which is intentional, or knowing, or voluntary, as distinguished from accidental, or conduct marked by careless disregard of its rightfulness.
90 F. (2d) 213, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 671, to review the affirmance of
a judgment for the Railroad Company in an action by the
United States to recover a penalty.

Mr. Gordon Dean argued the cause, and Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and
Mr. W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Selim B. Lemle, with whom Messrs. Arthur A.
Moreno, E. C. Craig, Charles N. Burch, H. D. Minor,
and Clinton H. McKay were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner brought this suit in the federal court for
eastern Louisiana to recover from respondent a penalty
for violation of the Act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 607,
45 U. S. C. §§ 71-74. Upon an agreed statement, the
court found the facts, stated its conclusions of law and
gave judgment for respondent. The circuit court of appeals affirmed. 90 F. (2d) 213. This Court granted a
writ of certiorari. 302 U. S. 671.
The question for decision is whether, as a matter of
law, the facts found show conclusively that respondent
knowingly and willfully failed to comply with the requirements of the first section of the Act.
It declares that no carrier whose road forms a part of a
line over which cattle shall be conveyed from one State
to another shall confine the same in cars for longer than
28 consecutive hours without unloading them into properly equipped pens for rest, water and feeding unless pre-

U. S. v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO.
239

Opinion of the Court.

vented by storm or by other accidental and unavoidable
causes which cannot be anticipated or avoided by the exercise of due diligence and foresight; upon the written
request of the owner the time of confinement may be extended to 36 hours. Section 2 requires that animals so
unloaded shall be properly fed and watered. Section 3
provides: "Any railroad ...

who knowingly and willfully

fails to comply with the provisions of the two preceding sections shall for every such failure be liable for and
forfeit and pay a penalty of not less than $100 nor more
than $500 . . ." recoverable by civil action in the name of

the United States. § 4.
The petition alleged that respondent knowingly and
willfully confined cattle in a car for 37 hours without
unloading them. The answer admitted that the cattle
were continuously confined in the car from three o'clock
in the afternoon of October 8, 1932, when loaded at point
of shipment, Hermanville, Mississippi, until four o'clock
of the morning of October 10 when unloaded at destination, New Orleans, Louisiana, but directly put in issue
the allegation that respondent knowingly and willfully
so confined the cattle. It alleged that the car arrived
at New Orleans at 11: 35 in the evening of October 9;
that having received advance information of the approximate time of arrival and of the time when the 36-hour
period would expire, respondent's yardmaster, in order
promptly to handle the shipment, procured an extra engine and crew immediately upon arrival of the car to
take it to the stockyards and, before the expiration of
the permissible time of confinement, there place it for
unloading; that the yardmaster negligently failed to
notify the employee, whose duty it was to unload; and
because of his oversight and negligence the cattle were
continuously confined in the car for 37 hours.
A motion by petitioner for judgment on the pleadings
having been overruled, the parties waived trial by jury
and stipulated evidentiary facts in substance as alleged
5:383°-:,18

-- 16

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

in the answer. They left open the question whether
respondent knowingly and willfully confined the cattle
for more than 36 hours. The case was submitted for
decision on the agreed statement without more. The
court found evidentiary facts in accordance with the stipulation, held failure to unload within the time was due
to the negligence of the yardmaster, and concluded that
respondent did not knowingly and willfully fail to comply with the statute.
The case depends upon the meaning of the phrase
"knowingly and willfully," used in § 3 to characterize
the transgressions for which penalties are imposed. The
Act is to be construed to give effect to its humanitarian
provisions, and as well to the exceptions in favor of the
carriers. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v. United States, 246
U. S. 512, 517-518. The penalty is not imposed for unwitting failure to comply with the statute. -.United States
v. Sioux City Stock Yards Co., 162 Fed. 556, 562.
United States v. Stockyards Terminal Ry. Co., 178 Fed.
19, 23. St. Joseph Stockyards Co. v. United States, 187
Fed. 104; Oregon-Washington R. & Nay. Co. v. United
States, 205 Fed. 341, 343. But in this case, the respondent knew when the permissible period of confinement
would expire, brought the car to destination, and, within
the time allowed, placed it for unloading. By allowing
the 36 hours to expire, it "knowingly" failed to comply
with the statute.
Mere omission with knowledge of the facts is not
enough. The penalty may not be recovered unless the
carrier is also shown "willfully" to have failed. In statutes denouncing offenses involving turpitude, "willfully"
is generally used to mean with evil purpose, criminal intent or the like. But in those denouncing acts not in
themselves wrong, the word is often used without any
such implication. Our opinion in United States v. Murdock, 290 U. S. 389, 394, shows that it often denotes that

U. S. v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. CO.
239

Opinion of the Court.

which is "intentional, or knowing, or voluntary, as distinguished from accidental," and ,that it is employed to
characterize "conduct marked by careless disregard
whether or not one has the right so to act." The significance of the word "willfully" as used in § 3 now before
us, was carefully considered by the circuit court of appeals for the eighth circuit in St. Louis & S. F. R. Co. v.
United States, 169 Fed. 69. Speaking through Circuit
Judge Van Devanter, now Mr. Justice Van Devanter,
the court said (p. 71): "'Willfully' means something not
expressed by 'knowingly,' else both would not be used
conjunctively. . . . But it does not mean with intent to
injure the cattle or to inflict loss upon their owner because such intent on the part of a carrier is hardly within
the pale of actual experience or reasonable supposition.
.. . So, giving effect to these considerations, we are
persuaded that it means purposely or obstinately and is
designed to describe the attitude of a carrier, who, having
a free will or choice, either intentionally disregards the
statute or is plainly indifferent to its requirements."
That statement has been found a useful guide to the
meaning of the word "willfully" and to its right application in suits for penalties under § 3. United States v.
Stockyards Terminal Ry. Co., supra, 23. St. Joseph
Stockyards Co. v. United States, supra, 105. OregonWashington R. & Nay. Co. v. United States, 205 Fed. 337,
339. St. Louis iMerchants' Bridge T. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 209 Fed. 600. See also Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v.
United States, 194 Fed. 342, 346. United States v. Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co., 202 Fed. 828, 833.
Considered as unaffected by the yardmaster's negligence, respondent's failure to take the cattle from the
car already placed at the yard for unloading, unquestionably discloses disregard of the statute and indifference to
its requirements and compels the conclusion that, within
the meaning of § 3, respondent willfully violated its duty

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

to unload as required by § 1. It is immaterial whether
the yardmaster's negligence or oversight was intentional
or excusable. As between the government and respondent, the latter's breach is precisely the same in kind and
degree as it would have been if its yardmaster's failure
had been intentional instead of merely negligent. The
duty violated did not arise out of the relation of employer and employee but was one that, in virtue of the
statute, was owed by respondent to the shippers and the
public. As respondent could act only through employees,
it is responsible for their failure. To hold carriers not
liable for penalties where the violations of §§ 1 and 2
are due to mere indifference, inadvertence or negligence
of employees would defeat the purpose of § 3. Whether
respondent knowingly and willfully failed is to be determined by the acts and omissions which characterize its
violation of the statute and not upon any breach of duty
owed to it by its employees. Respondent's contention
that it is not liable because its failure was due to the
negligence or oversight of the yardmaster cannot be sustained. Montana Cent. Ry. Co. v. United States, 164
Fed. 400, 403. United States y. Atlantic Coast Line R.
Co., 173 Fed. 764, 769. Cf. Oregon-Washington R. &
Nay. Co. v. United States, 205 Fed. 337, 340.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

and MR.

JUSTICE REED

part in the consideration or decision of this case.

took no

