LONERGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

LONERGAN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 121.

Argued January 10, 1938.-Decided January 31, 193S.

An appellant to the Circuit Court of Appeals has a right to rely
upon the rules of that court, properly construed, which govern
his assignments of error, and can not be prejudiced by additions
to the requirements made by amendment of the rules between the
appeal and the decision of the case. P. 35.
Rule 11 of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
before its recent amendment, provided: "When the error alleged
is to the admission or the rejection of evidence the assignment of
errors shall quote the full substance of the evidence admitted or
rejected." Held that it was satisfied by some, if not all, of 28
assignments which that court rejected in this case.
88 F. (2d) 591, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

302 U. S. 663, to review affirmance of a

conviction in a criminal case.

Mr. Pierce Lonergan, pro se.
Mr. J. Albert Woll, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and Messrs. William W. Barron and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In the District Court, Western District of Washington,
the petitioner was convicted of violating § 215 Criminal
Code; 18 U. S. C. 338, by using the mails for fraudulent
purposes. He appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
Ninth Circuit, and filed-August 14, 1936--forty assignments of error. The judgment of conviction was affirmed
March 6, 1937, upon an opinion, 88 F. (2d) 591, which,
among other things, states-53383"-*---8

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

"Twenty-eight assignments (numbered 5, 9 to 25, inclusive, and 31 to 40, inclusive) are to the admission of and
refusal to strike out evidence. The assignments do not
indicate that any of this evidence was objected to in
the trial court. They do not state what objections, if
any, were made, nor the grounds thereof, nor the grounds,
if any, on which appellant moved to strike out the evidence. Such assignments do not conform to our Rule 11
and will not be considered. Cody v. United States
(C. C. A. 9), 73 F. (2d) 180, 184; Goldstein v. United
States (C. C. A. 9), 73 F. (2d) 804, 806."
This ruling we think was error. Through wrongful
interpretation and application of the rule petitioner was
denied a proper hearing.
At the date of the appeal the pertinent portion of Rule
11 read as follows-"When the error alleged is to the
admission or the rejection of evidence the assignment of
errors shall quote the full substance of the evidence
admitted or rejected."
Concerning this provision, the opinion in Goldstein v.
United States, (1934) 73 F. (2d) 804, 806, declared"The assignment of error must noL only quote 'the full
substance of the evidence admitted or rejected,' but it
must also state the error asserted and intended to be
urged. This requires that the objection and ruling of
the court upon the objection and the exception to the
ruling be incorporated in the assignment of error." Adhering to this interpretation, the court persistently refused
to consider assignments deemed not in conformity
therewith.
Between the appeal and announcement of the opinion
under consideration, Rule 11 was amended so as to provide-"When the error alleged is to the admission or rejection of evidence the assignment of error shall quote
the ground urged at the trial for the objection and the
exception taken and the full substance of the evidence
admitted or rejected."

LONERGAN v. UNITED STATES.
33

Opinion of the Court.

Manifestly petitioner had the right to rely upon the
rule, properly construed, as it stood at the time of his
appeal-before the amendment. And if analysis of one
of the rejected assignments discloses substantial compliance, the cause must go back for further consideration of
the record.
Litigants may not be deprived of a hearing upon their
points by wrongful construction of rules nor by their arbitrary application. An unwarranted construction has
been given to the language of Rule 11; properly interpreted, it did not require petitioner to do all the things
specified by the amendment.
The substance of Assignment No. XVI follows-"The court erred in admitting in evidence, and denying
defendant's motion to strike, to which exceptions were
taken and allowed, plaintiff's Exhibit No. 75, being a
letter on the letterhead of Battle, Hulbert, Helsell &
Bettens, as follows:" [This letter-a long one--dated
August 17, 1934, addressed to petitioner and signed Battle,
Hulbert, Helsell & Bettens, by Joseph E. Gandy, is set
out in full. It states, among other things, that certain
"allegations and persuasions" made by the petitioner to
one Atwood "were obviously fraudulently made" and that
one "Atwood was defrauded by the misrepresentations,"
etc.]
"The testimony in support of its admission given by
witnesses A. M. Atwood and Joseph Gandy, is substantially as follows." [Here follows a resume of the testimony given by these witnesses.]
"The reasons such Exhibit should not have been admitted, and that it should have been stricken, are as
follows:
"1. It was hearsay evidence, contained conclusions of
third parties, and happened subsequent to the termination of the alleged plan.
"2. It was a self serving statement of a third party
making the statements therein contained.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.

36

Syllabus.

303 U. S.

"3. It was highly incompetent, irrelevant and immaterial, and in its nature highly prejudicial to the defendant.
Its admission was not necessary to clarify 76-A and it
was not related to 76-B."
We think this assignment adequately met the applicable requirements of Rule 11. Clearly, it quoted the
full substance of the evidence admitted and was definite
enough to enable both court and opposing counsel readily
to perceive the point intended to be relied on. Seaboard
Air Line Ry. Co. v. Watson, 287 U. S. 86, 91.
Other assignments also seem sufficiently definite and
formal to demand consideration. We do not pass upon
the merits of any assignment and decide only that some,
if not all, of them were improperly rejected.
The challenged judgment must be reversed. The cause
will be remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
further proceedings in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the considera-

tion and decision of this case.
MUNRO v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 218.

Argued January 6, 7, 1938.-Decided January 31, 1938.

1. A suit in the District Court to recover on a War Risk insurance
policy, the procedure in which is the same as that provided in
§§ 5 and 6 of the Tucker Act, was not brought in time to toll
the statute of limitations where the complaint was not filed with
the clerk of the court before the period of limitations expired.
P. 39.
To commence the suit in accordance with §§ 5 and 6 of the
Tucker Act, it was not enough to serve a copy of the summons
upon the District Attorney and mail another to the Attorney
General.

