BATES MFG. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
564

567

Syllabus.

302 U. S. 609, it was said that this exemption "contemplates a distribution to stockholders, and not payment
to creditors." The very statute upon which the taxpayer
relies provides that "If the corporation receiving such
other property or money does not distribute it in pursuance of the plan of reorganization, the gain, if any, to
the corporation shall be recognized [taxed] . .
Since this gain or income of $534,297.40 of the Hendler
Company was neither received as "stock or securities"
nor distributed to its stockholders "in pursuance of the

plan of reorganization" it was not exempt and is taxable
gain as defined in the 1928 Act.

This $534,297.40 gain

to the taxpayer does not fall within the exemptions of
§ 112, and the judgment of the court below is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOzO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

BATES MANUFACTURING CO. v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 647.

Argued March 11, 1938.-Decided March 28, 1938.

Where, in a suit against the United States in the District Court under
the Tucker Act, for recovery of taxes alleged to have been illegally
collected, the verified petition of plaintiff was filed within two years
after the disallowance of the claim for refund; and within four
days after the filing of the petition, though not within two years
after the disallowance of the claim for refund, copies of the petition were served on the United States Attorney and mailed to the
Attorney General,-held the suit was "begun" in time under Revenue Act of 1926, § 1113. P. 572.
93 F. 2d 721, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

30:3 U. S.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 628, to review a judgment affirming the dismissal, 19 F. Supp. 526, of a suit to recover
an alleged overpayment of taxes.

Mr. Charles B. Rugg, with whom Messrs. H. Brian
Holland and Warren F. Farr were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Norman D. Keller, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and F. E. Youngman were on the brief, for
the United States.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Theodore B. Benson and
John Jennings, Jr. filed a brief on behalf of Pinnacle
Mills, as amicus curiae, in support of petitioner.
MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Revenue Act of 1926 1 provides that "No suit . . .
shall be maintained in any court for the recovery of
any internal-revenue tax alleged to have been erroneously
or illegally assessed or collected, . . . unless such suit
• . . is begun within two years after the disallowance of
• . . such claim . . ."
The Tucker Act of March 3, 1887 2 as amended, gives
concurrent jurisdiction to the District Courts and the
Court of Claims in suits against the United States including those for recovery of erroneous or illegally collected taxes.' Section 5 of the Tucker Act requires a
plaintiff bringing suit against the government in the
District Court to "file a petition, duly verified with the
clerk of the respective court having jurisdiction of the
case." Section 6 requires "that the plaintiff . . . cause
'c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, § 1113.
2

c. 359, 24 Stat. 505, 506.
U. S. C. Title 28, § 41 (20), (Judicial Code § 24 (20) as amended).

BATES MFG. CO. v. UNITEI) STATES.
567

569

Opinion of tlie
Court.

a copy of his petition . . .to be served upon the district attorney . . ., and . . . mail a copy . . . to the Attorney General . .., and cause to be filed with the clerk
of the court . . . affidavit of such service and...
mailing . . ."
March 22, 1927, the petitioner's claim for tax refund
was disallowed. March 21, 1929, within two years after
the disallowance, a duly verified petition was filed in the
District Court claiming the refund. March 25, 1929,
two years and four days after the disallowance, the petition was served on the United States Attorney and
mailed to the Attorney General.
The District Court held suit was not "begun" by
filing the verified petition and dismissed the cause of
action.' The Court of Appeals affirmed.'
It is conceded that suit in the Court of Claims is
"begun" when the petition is filed. Yet, it is insisted
that suit is not "begun" in the District Court when the
petition is filed although the Court of Claims and the
District Courts are given concurrent jurisdiction by the
Tucker Act. Consideration of the history and language
of the statute leads us to a different conclusion.
Section 10 of the Act of March 3, 1863,' provides
"That every claim against the United States, cognizable
by the Court of Claims, shall be forever barred unless
the petition setting forth a statement of the claim be
filed... within six years after the claim first accrues ..."
When the Tucker Act in 1887 greatly expanded the
jurisdiction of the Court of Claims and gave District
Courts concurrent jurisdiction in all cases involving cer' 19 F. Supp. 526.
'93 F. (2d) 721.
°12 Stat. 765, 767.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

tain amounts, its limitation in both the Court of Claims
and the District Courts provided:
"... no suit against the Government of the United
States, shall be allowed under this act unless the same
shall have been brought within six years after the right
accrued .
The substantial rights of claimants are to be governed
alike whether suit is brought in the Court of Claims or
the District Court. The author of the Tucker Act in
declaring the statute of limitations applicable alike "to
any or all" of the cases arising under the Act drew no
distinction between suits brought in the District Court
and in the Court of Claims.7
The purpose of giving the District Courts concurrent
jurisdiction with the Court of Claims was to provide additional opportunity for the consideration and determination of claims that had "long pressed upon the consideration of Congress" I and to permit suit to "be brought in
the District where the parties reside." I After discussing
the benefits of previous legislation creating and extending the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, the Committee on the Judiciary reported to the House:
"The history of this legislation and its results have
been given to show how much of benefit has been done
in the satisfactory decisions of claims against the Government and in relief of the Congress. But it has long been
felt that the benefits could be made much greater by
extending the jurisdiction of the Court. . . . It is needless to say more than has already been intimated as to
the general policy of this legislation. The large mass of
'Congressional Record and Appendix, 49th Cong., 2nd Sess., March
3, p. 2679.
House Report No. 1077, 49th Cong., 1st Sess., by Mr. Tucker on
the Tucker Bill.
'Congressional Record and Appendix, 49th Cong., 2nd Sess., March
3, p. 2679.

BATES MFG. CO. v. UNITEI) STATES.
567

571

Opinion of the Court.

business now before Congress growing out of private
claims consumes its time year after year in committee
work, rendered useless by the lack of time to consider
and pass upon them. Just claims are painfully deferred
without interest, and the credit of the Government, so
strictly upheld upon its bonded debt, is justly censured
in respect to its honest private claims." 10
In response to the needs disclosed by this report Congress passed the Tucker Act, manifestly intending to provide adequate opportunity for expeditious and orderly
determination of claims against the Government. This
Act not only expanded the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims, but, for the first time, gave District Courts general authority to hear and determine claims against the
Government. Relief of existing claim congestion and
prevention of future congestion obviously demanded an
integrated jurisdictional plan by which the Court of
Claims and District Courts could afford equal opportunities for expeditious and fair trials of like claims within
the jurisdictional amount of the District Courts. The
erection of barriers to recovery in the District Courts
which did not exist in the Court of Claims would have
tended to defeat the prime objectives of the Act. Uniformity and equality in substantial rights and privilegesfor claimants in both forums-were essential features
in the system. Distinctions between the opportunities
for recovery afforded in the two forums would have tended
to mar the symmetry of the plan and to impair its effective and successful operation. As to substantial rights,
Congress evidently meant to give claimants an identical
status in both Courts where the amount in controversy
was included in the jurisdiction of both. We find no support in the background or objective of the Act for a
' House Rep. No. 1077, supra, pp. 3-4.

OCTOBER TERM1, 1937.
Opinion of the Court

:303 t'.
S.

construction under which a claimant's rights would be
preserve(d by filing a petition in the Court of Claims,
but would be lost-without additional action-in the
District Court.
As said by this Court in United States v. Greathouse,
166 U. S. 601, 606:
".. . it was not contemplated that the limitation
upon suits against the Government in the District . . .
Courts of the United States should be different from that
applicable to like suits in the Court of Claims."
As used in this statute the word "begun" should be
giveni its ordinary and accustomed meaning. To begin
is to start; to institute; to initiate; to commence. This
suit was begun-within two years after the refund claim
was disallowed-when the petition was filed in court in
good faith. Notice was mailed the Attorney General and
the District Attorney was promptly served-both within
four days after the verified petition was filed. Under these
circumstances, we do not consider what would be the effect
of lack of diligence in obtaining service." The judgment
in the court below was not in harmony with the views
here expressed and is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

" Compare, Linn & Lane Timber Co. v. United States, 236 U. S.
574, 578.

