CONN. GENERAL CO. v. JOHNSON.
Cotuisel for Parties.

CONNECTICUT GENERAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.
v. JOHNSON, TREASURER OF CA&LIFORNIA.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME

COURT

OF

CALIFORNIA.

No. 316. Argued January 14, 1938.-Decided January 31, 1938.
1. A corporation which is allowed to come into a State and there
carry on its business may claim, as an individual may claim, the
protection of the Fourteenth Amendment against a subsequent
application to it of state law. P. 79.
2. A Connecticut corporation conducted part of its life insurance
business in California under license from that State and also
entered into contracts with other insurance corporations likewise licensed to do business in California, reinsuring them against
loss on policies of life insurance effected by them in California and
issued to residents there. These reinsurance contracts were entered
into in Connecticut, where the premiums were paid and where
the losses, if any, were payable.
Held that, as applied to such reinsurance business, a California
tax on the privilege of the corporation to do business within the
State, measured by the gross premiums received, was void under
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 78, 82.
3. A State may not tax the property and activities of a foreign
corporation which are not within its boundaries. P. 80.
The limits placed by the Fourteenth Amendment on the State's
jurisdiction to tax are to be ascertained by reference to the
incidence of the tax upon its objects rather than the ultimate thrust
of the economic benefits and burdens of transactions within the
State which it might but does not tax.
93 Cal. Dec. 4650; 67 P. 2d 675, reversed.
APPEAL

from judgments affirming the dismissal on de-

murrer of two actions by the above-named insurance company against Johnson, State Treasurer of California, to
recover taxes paid under protest. The cases were heard
together in the court below.
Messrs. William Marshall Bullitt and B. M. Anderson,
with whom Mr. Raymond Benjamin was on the brief,
for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.

V

Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Mr. N dl Cunningam, Deputy Attorney General, with

wNon lir. U. S. TV,,bb, Attorney General, of California,
wai on t l,,brief, f r appellee.
MR. Jt',k 1CE STONE

(Ielivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellant is a Connecticut corporation, adnitted to do
an insurance business in California. In addition to its
business conducted within that state it has entered into
contracts with other inurance corporations likewise licensed to do business in California, reinsuring them
against loss on policies of life insurance effecte(i by them
in California and issued to rpsi(lents there. These reinsurance contracts were entered into in Connecticut where
the premiums were paid and where the losses, if any.
were payable. The question for decision is whether a
tax laid by California on the receipt 1by appellant in Connecticut of the reinsurance premiums during the years
1930 and 1931, infringes the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
In suits brought in the state court by appellant against
respon~dent, state treasurer, to recover the taxes paid, the
Supreme Court of California sustained demurrers to the
complaints and gave judgments for the respondent. The
cases, having been consolidated, come here on a single appeal under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code. 28 U. S. C.

§ 344 (a).
Section 14 of Art. XIII of the California constitution,
as supplemented by Act of March 5, 1921 (Stats. 1921,
c. 22, pp. 20, 21, Political Code, § 3664b), fixing the rate
of tax, lays upon every insurance company doing business within the state an annual tax of 2.6% "upon. the
amount of the gross premiums received upon its business
done in this state, less return premiums and reinsurance
in companies or associations authorized to do business
in this state. . . ." The Supreme Court of California
has declared that the constitutional provision imposes

CONN. GENERAL CO. v. JOHNSON.
77

Opinion of the Court.

"a franchise tax exacted for the privilege of doing business" in the state. Consolidated Title Securities Co. v.
Hopkins, 1 Cal. (2d) 414, 419; 35 P. (2d) 320; cf. Carpenter v. People's Mutual Life Insurance Co., 94 Cal.
Dec. 674; 74 P. (2d) 708.
Although in terms the "gross premiums received upon
.business done in this state," less the specified deductions, are made the measure of the tax, the state court in
this, as in an earlier case, Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. v. Johnson, 3 Cal. (2d) 83; 43 P. (2d) 278
(appeal dismissed for want of a properly presented federal
question, 296 U. S. 535), has held that the measure
includes the premiums on appellant's reinsurance policies
effected and payable in Connecticut. In this case it has
declared also that the policy of the state, expressed in the
constit'.tional provision, is "to avoid double taxation
without any loss of revenue to the state." To accomplish
that end the deduction of reinsu,.nce premiums paid to
companies authorized to do business within the state is
allowed, it is said, on the theory that the benefit of the
deduction will be passed on to the reinsurer who, being
authorized to do business within the state, may be taxed
on the reinsurance premiums as a means of equalizing the.

tax and as an offset against the benefit of the deduction
which he ultimately enjoys.
No contention is made that appellant has consented to
the tax imposed as a condition of the granted privilege
to do business within the state. Nor could it be, for it
appears that appellant had conducted its business in
California under state license for many years before the
taxable years in question and before the taxing act was
construed by the highest court of the state, in Connecticut
General Life Insurance Co. v. Johnson, supra, to apply to
premiums received in Connecticut from reinsurance contracts effected there. A corporation which is allowed to
come into a state and there carry on its business may

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

claim, as an individual may claim, the protection of the
Fourteenth Amendment against a subsequent application to it of state law. Hanover Fire Insurance Co. v.
Harding, 272 U. S. 494; cf. Kentucky Finance Corp. v.
ParamountAuto Exchange Corp., 262 U. S. 544.
It is said that the state could have lawfully accomplished its purpose if the statute had further stipulated
that the deduction should be allowed only in those cases
where the reinsurance is effected in the state or the reinsurance premiums paid there. But as the state has placed
no such limitation on the allowance of deductions, the end
sought can be attained only if the receipt by appellant
of the reinsurance premiums paid in Connecticut upon
the Connecticut policies is within the reach of California's
taxing power. Appellee argues that it is, because the
reinsurance transactions are so related to business carried
on by appellant in California as to be a part of it and
properly included in the measure of the tax; and because,
in any case, no injustice is done to appellant since the
effect of the statute as construed is to redistribute the
tax, which the state might have exacted from the original
insurers but did not, by assessing it upon appellant to
the extent to which it has received the benefit of the
"allowed deductions.
But the limits of the state's legislative jurisdiction to
tax, prescribed by the Fourteenth Amendment, are to be
ascertained by reference to the incidence of the tax
upon its objects rather than the ultimate thrust of the
economic benefits and burdens of transactions within
the state. As a matter of convenience and certainty,
and to secure a practically just operation of the constitutional prohibition, we look to the state power to control
the objects of the tax as marking the boundaries of the
power to lay it. Hence it is that a state which controls
the property and activities within its boundaries of a
foreign corporation admitted to do business there may
tax them. But the due process clause denies to the state

CONN. GENERAL CO. v. JOHNSON.
77

Opinion of the Court.

power to tax or regulate the corporation's property and
activities elsewhere. Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v.
Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194; New York Life Insurance Co.
v. Head, 234 U. S. 149; New York Life Insurance Co. v.
Dodge, 246 U. S. 357; St. Louis Compress Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346; Compailia General De Tabacos v. Collector, 275 U. S. 87; Home Insurance Co. v. Dick, 281
U. S. 397; Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Delta
& Pine Land Co., 292 U. S. 143; Boseman v. Connecticut General Life Ins. Co., 301 U. S. 196; People ex rel.
Sea Insurance Co. v. Graves, 274 N. Y. 312; 8 N. E. (2d)
872; cf. Provident Savings Life Assurance Society v.
Kentucky, 239 U. S. 103. It follows that such a tax,
otherwise unconstitutional, is not converted into a valid
exaction merely because the corporation enjoys outside
the state economic benefits from transactions within it,
which the state might but does not tax, or because the
state might tax the transactions which the corporation
carries on outside the state if it were induced to carry
them on within.
Appellant, by its reinsurance contracts, undertook only
to indemnify the insured companies against loss upon
their policies written in California. The reinsurance involved no transactions or relationship between appellant
and those originally insured, and called for no act in
California. Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. v.
Johnson, supra, 87; cf. Morris & Co. v. Skandinavia Insurance Co., 279 U. S. 405, 408. Apart from the facts
that appellant was privileged to do business in California,
and that the risks reinsured were originally insured
against in that state by companies also authorized to do
business there, California had no relationship to appellant or to the reinsurance contracts. No act in the course
of their formation, performance or discharge, took place
there. The performance of those acts was not dependent
upon any privilege or authority granted by it, and California laws afforded to them no protection.
5:38

:-8 ---

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

The grant by the state of the privilege of doing business there and its consequent authority to tax the privilege do not withdraw from the protection of the due
process clause the privilege, which California does not
grant, of doing business elsewhere. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S..1; InternationalPaper Co.
v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135; Louisville & Jeffersonville Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385, 398. Even
though a tax on the privilege of doing business within the
state in insuring residents and risks within it may be
measured by the premiums collected, including those
mailed to the home office without the state, Equitable
Life Assurance Society v. Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 143, and
though the writing of policies without the state insuring
residents and risks within it is taxable because within the
granted privilege, Compahia General De Tabacos v. Collector, supra, 98, there is no basis for saying that reinsurance which does not run to the original insured, and
which from its inception to its termination involves no
action taken within California, even the settlement and
adjustment of claims, is embraced in any privilege
granted by that state. Provident Savings Life Assurance
Society v. Kentucky, supra, 112; Compaiia Generat De
Tabacos v. Collector, supra, 96; cf. Equitable Life Assurance Society v. Pennsylvania, supra, 147; Compaiiia
General De Tabacos v. Collector, supra, 98. All that appellant did in effecting the reinsurance was done without
the state and for its transaction no privilege or license by
California was needful. The tax cannot be sustained
either as laid on property, business done, or transactions
carried on within the state, or as a tax on a privilege
granted by the state.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

CONN. GENERAL CO. v. JOHNSON.
77

BLA cK, J., dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

I do not believe that this California corporate franchise
tax has been proved beyond all reasonable doubt to be
in violation of the Federal Constitution 1 and I believe
that the judgment of the Supreme Court of California
should be affirmed. Traditionally, states have been
empowered to grant or deny foreign corporations the right
to do business within their borders,2 and "...
may
exclude them arbitrarily or impose such conditions as
. . . (they) will upon their engaging in business within
(their) f. . jurisdiction."
California laid an annual tax upon gross insurance
premiums which the Supreme Court of California has
construed to be "a franchise tax exacted for the privilege
of doing business." In measuring this franchise tax
imposed upon corporations the state includes reinsurance
premiums paid to the corporation on contracts made
without the state, where such reinsuranceprotects citizens
of the State of California. There is no attempt by this
tax to regulate the business of the insurance company in
any state except California.
The record does not indicate that California made any
contract with this Connecticut corporation guaranteeing it
a permanent franchise to do business in California on the
same terms and conditions upon which it entered the
state.
"A state which freely granted the corporate privilege
for intrastate commerce may change its policy. . . . in
the absence of contract, there is no vested interest which
requires the continuance of a,legislative policy however
'Cf. Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 270.
"Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall.
16S; Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Wall. 410; Horn Silver Mining Co. v.
New York, 143 U. S. 305.
Hanover Fire Ins. Co. v. Harding, 272 U. S. 494, 507.

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

expressed-whether embodied in a charter or in a system
of taxation" 4
It may be that California believes that by this tax it
can stimulate the reinsurance business of companies
making their reinsurance contracts in California. The
right of a state to foster its own domestic industries by
its taxing system has been sustained by this Court.'
This Courb has also frequently sustained the right of
a state to impose conditions on foreign corporations in
order to favor its own corporations.' If a state did not
have this privilege it could not protect the domestic
business of its own corporations from undesirable competition by foreign corporations. The State of California has the constitutional right to limit the privileges
of its own corporations and to reserve the right to control
their privileges and to define and limit their activities.'
If California has the lawful constitutional right (as this
Court has many times said it has) to impose conditions
upon foreign corporations so as to protect domestic corporations, its own elected legislative representatives
should be the judges of what is reasonable and proper in
a democracy.
With reference to a corporate tax imposed by the State
of Louisiana, this Court has said: "The appellants, by
incorporating in some other state, or by spreading their
business and activities over other states, cannot set at
naught the public policy of Louisiana [California?] ....
The policy Louisiana [California?] is free to adopt with
'Brandeis, J., dissenting, Liggett Co. v. Lee, 288 U. S. 517, 546.
'New York v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 658; Magnano Co. v. Hamilton,
292 U. S. 40; Fox v. Standard Oil Co., 294 U. S. 87; Aero Mayflower Transit Co. v. Georgia Commission, 295 U. S. 285; Alaska
Fish Co. v. Smith, 255 U. S. 44, 48.
'Prudential Insurance Co. v. Cheek, 259 U. S. 530, 536; Pembina
Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181, 189.
'Fifth Avenue Coach Co. v. New York, 221 U. S. 467; Stone v.
Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814, 820.

CONN. GENERAL CO. v. JOHNSON.
77

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

respect to the business activities of her own citizens she
may apply to the citizens of other states who conduct the
same business within her borders, and this irrespective of
whether the evils requiring regulation arise solely from
operations in Louisiana [California?] or are in part the
result of extra-state transactions." 8
But it is contended that the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment prohibits 0alifornia from determining what terms and conditions should be imposed
upon this Connecticut corporation to promote the welfare of the people of California.
I do not believe the word "person" in the Fourteenth
Amendment includes corporations. "The doctrine of
stare decisis, however appropriate and even necessary at
times, has only a limited application in the field of constitutional law."' This Court has many times changed
its interpretations of the Constitution when the conclusion was reached that an improper construction had been
adopted."0 Only recently the case of West Coast Hotel
Co. v. Parrish,300 U. S. 379, expressly overruled a previous interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment which
had long blocked state minimum wage legislation. When
a statute is declared by this Court to be unconstitutional,
the decision until reversed stands as a barrier against the
adoption of similar legislation. A constitutional interpretation that is wrong should not stand. I believe
this Court should now overrule previous decisions which
interpreted the Fourteenth Amendment to include
corporations.
Neither the history nor the language of the Fourteenth
Amendment justifies the belief that corporations are in8 Atlantic

& Pac. Tea Co. v. Grosjean. 301 U. S. 412, 427.
Stone and Cardozo, JJ., concurring, St. Joseph Stock Yards Co.
v. United States, 298 U. S. 38, 94.
" See collection of cases, Notes 1, 2, 3 and 4, Dissenting Opinion
of Justice Brandeis, Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393,
406-409.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

eluded within its protection. The historical purpose of
the Fourteenth Amendment was clearly set forth when
first considered by this Court in the Slaughter House
Cases, 16 Wall. 36, decided April, 1873-less than five
years after the proclamation of its adoption. Mr. Justice
Miller speaking for the Court said (p. 70):
"Among the first acts of legislation adopted by several
of the States in the legislative bodies which claimed to be
in their normal relations with the Federal government,
were laws which imposed upon the colored race onerous
disabilities and burdens, and curtailed their rights in the
pursuit of life, liberty, and property to such an extent
that their freedom was of little value, while they had lost
the protection which they had received from their former
owners from motives both of interest and humanity ...
"These circumstances, whatever of falsehood or misconception may have been mingled with their presentation,
forced . . . the conviction that something more was
necessary in the way of constitutional protection to the
unfortunate race who had suffered so much. . . . [Congressional leaders] accordingly passed through Congress
the proposition for the fourteenth amendment, and . . .
declined to treat as restored to their full participationin
the government of the Union the States which had been
in insurrection,until they ratified that article by a formal
vote of their legislative bodies."
Certainly, when the Fourteenth Amendment was submitted for approval, the people were not told that the
states of the South were to be denied their normal relationship with the Federal Government unless they -atifled an amendment granting new and revolutionary
rights to corporations. This Court, when the Slaughter
House Cases were decided in 1873, had apparently discovered no such purpose. The records of the time can
be searched in vain for evidence that this Amendment
was adopted for the benefit of corporations. It is true

CONN. GENERAL CO. v. JOHNSON.
77

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

that in 1882, twelve years after its adoption, and ten
years after the Slaughter House Cases, supra, an argument was made in this Court that a journal of the joint
Congressional Committee which framed the Amendment,
secret and undisclosed up to that (late, indicated the Committee's desire to protect corporations by the use of the
word "person." "' Four years later, in 1886, this Court in
the case of Santa Clara County v. Southern Pacific Railroad, 118 U. S. 394, decided for the first time that the
word "person" in the Amendment did in some instances
include corporations. A secret purpose on the part of
the members of the Committee, even if such be the fact,
however, would not be sufficient to justify any such
construction. The history of the Amendment proves
that the people were told that its purpose was to protect weak and helpless human beings and were not told
that it was intended to remove corporations in any fashion from the control of state governments. The Fourteenth Amendment followed the freedom of a race from
slavery. Justice Swayne said in the Slaughter House
Cases, supra, that "by 'any person' was meant all persons
within the jurisdiction of the State. No distinction is
intimated on account of race or color." Corporations
have neither race nor color. He knew the Amendment
was intended to protect the life, liberty and property of
human beings.
The language of the Amendment itself does not support the theory that it was passed for the benefit of corporations.
The first clause of § 1 of the Amendment reads: "All
persons born or naturalized in 1he United States and sub" San Mateo County v. Southern Pacific Railroad, 116 U. S. 13S.
See Benj. B. Kendrick, Journal of the Joint Committee on Reconstruction (1914, New York); Howard J. Graham, The "Conspiracy
Theory" of the Fourteenth Amendment, 47 Yale L. J. 371; Donald
Barr Chidsey, The Gentleman from New York-A Life of Roscoe
Conklin, Yale University Press (1935).

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

ject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United
States and of the State wherein they reside." Certainly
a corporation cannot be naturalized and "persons" here
is not broad enough to include "corporations."
The first clause of the second sentence of § 1 reads: "No
State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States; . . ." While efforts have been made to persuade
this Court to allow corporations to claim the protection
of this clause, these efforts have not been successful. 2
The next clause of the second sentence reads: "nor shall
any State deprive any person of life, liberty or property
without due process of law; . . ."

It has not been de-

cided that this clause prohibits a state from depriving a
corporation of "life." This Court has expressly held that
"the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment
against deprivation without due process of law is the
liberty of natural, not artificial persons." " Thus, the
words "life" and "liberty" do not apply to corporations,
and of course they could not have been so intended to apply. However, the decisions of this Court which the majority follow hold that corporations are included in this
clause insofar as the word "property" is concerned. In
other words, this clause is construed to mean as follows:
"Nor shall any State deprive any human being of life,
liberty or property without due process of law; nor shall
any State deprive any corporation of property without
due process of law."
The last clause of this second sentence of § 1 reads:
"nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
"person" has been
protection of the laws." As used here,
14
construed to include corporations.
" Selover, Bates & Co. v. Walsh, 226 U. S. 112, 126.
" Western Turf Assn. v. Greenberg, 204 U. S. 359, 363.
" Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 154.

CONN. GENERAL CO. v. JOHNSON.
77

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

Both Congress and the people were familiar with the
meaning of the word "corporation" at the time the Fourteenth Amendment was submitted and adopted. The
judicial inclusion of the word "corporation" in the Fourteenth Amendment has had a revolutionary effect on our
form of government. The states did not adopt the
Amendment with knowledge of its sweeping meaning under its present construction. No section of the Amendment gave notice to the people that, if adopted, it would
subject every state law and municipal ordinance, affecting
corporations, (and all administrative actions under them)
to censorship of the United States courts. No word in
all this Amendment gave any hint that its adoption would
deprive the states of their long recognized power to regulate corporations.
The second section of the Amendment informed the
people that representatives would be apportioned among
the several states "according to their respective numbers,
counting the whole number of persons in each State, excluding Indians not taxed." No citizen could gather
the impression here that while the word "persons" in the
second section applied to human beings, the word "persons" in the first section in some instances applied to
corporations. Section 3 of the Amendment said that
"no person . . . shall be a Senator or Representative in
Congress," (who "engaged in insurrection"). There was
no intimation here that the word "person" in the first
section in some instances included corporations.
This Amendment sought to prevent discrimination by
the states against classes or races. We are aware of this
from words spoken in this Court within five years after
its adoption, when the people and the courts were personally familiar with the historical background of the
Amendment. "We doubt very much whether any action
of a State not directed by way of discrimination against

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

the negroes as a class, or on account of their race, will
ever be held4o come within the purview of this provision." " Yet, of the cases in this Court in which the
Fourteenth Amendment was applied during the first fifty
years after its adoption, less than one-half of one per cent.
invoked it in protection of the negro race, and more than
fifty per cent. asked that its benefits be extended to
corporations."0
If the people of this nation wish to deprive the States
of their sovereign rights to determine what is a fair and
just tax upon corporations doing a purely local business
within their own state boundaries, there is a way provided by the Constitution to accomplish this purpose.
That way does not lie along the course of judicial amendment to that fundamental charter. An Amendment having that purpose could be submitted by Congress as provided by the Constitution. I do not believe that the
Fourteenth Amendment had that purpose, nor that the
people believed it had that purpose, nor that it should be
construed as having that purpose.
I believe the judgment of the Supreme Court of California should be sustained.
"Slaughter House Cases, supra.
"Charles Wallace Collins, The Fourteenth Amendment and the
States, Boston (1912), p. 138.

