OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

;303 U. S.

pellate procedure as appeared to be wise. The Act authorizing this Court to promulgate rules for criminal appeals, which should have the effect of legislation necessarily modified the former statutory provisions so as to
give the Court full authority to prescribe the time and
manner of taking appeals and to leave the Court free to
determine to what courts, within the range of the authorization, its rules should apply. Pursuant to this authority, the Court has limited its rules so that they do not
govern appeals from the District Court of the Territory
of Hawaii and there is nothing in the earlier legislation
which compels the extension of the rules beyond their
intended and expressed application.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded to that court for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

SOUT1IWESTERN BELL TELEPHONE CO. v.
OKLAHOMA

ET A[,.

APPEAL FROM TIE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 560.

Argued February 7, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

Upon appeal from the State Corporation Commission, the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma affirmed an order fixing the rates of a telephone company, such affirmance being, under the state constitution, a legislative act, and therefore, not reviewable by appeal
1o this Court. The company then filed a petition for rehearing
asking for a judicial review, which petition was denied without
statement 6f reason. Upon appeal to this Court, the company
contended that the denial of the petition was a judicial review,
while the State's Attorney General insisted that the whole procceding was legislative in character and that adequate judicial

S. W. BELL TEL. CO. v. OKLAHOMIA.
Opinion of the Court.

206

review could be obtained under the power of the state court
to issue writs of mandamus and prohibition to the Commission.
Held:
1. That, in the absence of a definite decision 1o that effect by
the state court, this Court can not conclude that the state law
provides no judicial review of such order. P. 212.
2. Assuming that the State affords a judicial remedy, there is
no means of knowing whether the state court denied the petition because an application for rehearing, after the legislative
determination, was not the proper way under the state practice
to invoke the judicial power, or whether it entertained the application and by its ruling passed upon the controversy in a judicial capacity. Id.
3. This Court is therefore without jurisdiction to review the
denial of the petition. Id.
Appeal dismissed.
APPEAL from a judgment denying a petition for rehearing in the nature of a judicial review after a decision,
181 Okla. 246, affirming an order of the Corporation Com-

mission of the State fixing rates for telephone service.
Mr. Mac Q. Williamson, Attorney General of Oklahoma, with whom Messrs. J. B. A. Robertson and S. J.

Gordon were on the brief, for appellees.
Mr Erwin TV. Clausen, with whom Messrs. J. R.
Spielman, C. .1. Bracelen and John H. Cantrell were on)

the brief, for appellant.
PER CURIAM.

Motion to dismiss, for the want of jurisdiction, an appeal from a determination of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, made September 14, 1937, denying a "petition for
rehearing in the nature of judicial review" after a decision affirming an order of the Corporation Commission
of the State fixing rates for telephone service. The motion is upon the ground that the proceeding in the state
court was legislative and was not a suit within the mean-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

ing of § 237 of the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. 344) governing our appellate jurisdiction.
The constitution of Oklahoma authorizes the Corporation Commission to prescribe rates "for transportation
and transmission companies." Art. IX, § 18. Appellant, operating telephone lines, is a "transmission company." Art. IX, § 34. Appeals from the Commission
may be taken only to the Supreme Court of the State.
Art. IX, § 20. No court of the State, other than the
Supreme Court by way of appeal, has jurisdiction "to
review, reverse, correct, or annul" any action of the Commission within the scope of its authority, save that writs
of mandamus and prohibition will lie from the Supreme
Court to the Commission "in all cases where such writs,
respectively, would lie to any inferior court or officer."
Id. In case of appeal, no new or additional evidence
may be introduced in the Supreme Court, but the Supreme Court has jurisdiction to consider and determine
"the reasonableness and justness of the action of the
Commission appealed from, as well as any other matter
arising under such appeal." The action of the Commission is to be regarded "as prima facie just, reasonable, and
correct," but the court may, when it deems necessary in
the interests of justice, remand to the Commission any
case pending on appeal "and require the same to be
further investigated by the Commission, and reported
upon to the court (together with a certificate of such additional evidence as may be tendered before the Commission by any party in interest), before the appeal is
finally decided." Art. IX. § 22.
Section 23 of Article IX provides:
"Whenever the court, upon appeal, shall reverse an
order of the Commission affecting the rates, charges, or
the classifications of traffic of any transportation or transmission company, it shall, at the same time, substitute
therefor such orders as, in its opinion, the Commission

S. W. BELL TEL. CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
206

Opinion of the Court.

should have made at the time of entering the order appealed from; otherwise the reversal order shall not be
valid. Such substituted order shall have the same force
and effect (and none other) as if it had been entered by
the Commission at the time the original order appealed
from was entered."
In the instant case, the Corporation Commission on
March 18, 1935, after hearing, made its order fixing appellant's rates (Okla. Corp. Coin. Rep., 1935, p. 558),
and on appeal the Supreme Court of the State, on July
13, 1937, affirmed the order. 181 Okla. 246; 71 P. 2d 747.
Appellant concedes that this decision was legislative
in character, in view of the authority conferred by the
above-quoted provision of § 23 of Article IX and its
construction by the state court. See Pioneer Telephone
& Telegraph Co. v. State, 40 Okla. 417, 425, 426; 138
Pac. 1033; Swain v. Oklahoma Railway Co., 168 Okla.
133, 134-136; 32 P. 2d. 51; Oklahoma Cotton Ginners'
Assn. v. State, 174 Okla. 243, 248, 251; 51 P. 2d 327.
Compare Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S.
210, 226, 227; Oklahoma Natural Gas Co. v. Russell,
261 U. S. 290, 291. But appellant contends that the
Supreme Court of the State "completed its legislative
review and function by the filing of its opinion of July 13,
1937," and that appellant was then free to invoke the
jurisdiction of the court to exercise its judicial power and
function by an application for "a judicial review." This,
appellant states, was the purpose of its petition for
rehearing.
In support of that petition, appellant urged upon the
Supreme Court of the State the consideration of the provisions of the state constitution with respect to the vesting of judicial power and the appellate jurisdiction of the
court (Art. VII, § 1 and 2); of the bill of rights guaranteeing a judicial remedy for every injury (Art. II, § 6);
of § 22 of Article IX providing that, on appeals to the
5334;3-38-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Supreme Court from the Corporation Commission, that
court should have jurisdiction to determine "the reasonableness and justness" of' the action of the Commission
"as well as any other matter" arising on the appeal; and
of § 34 of Article IX that the provisions of that Article
should "always be so restricted in their application as
not to conflict with any of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, and as if the necessary limitations upon their interpretation had been herein
expressed in each case." In concluding the submission
of its petition for rehearing appellant insisted that the
Supreme Court of the State "not only has the power,
right, jurisdiction and authority, now to review this case
judicially, which right, power, jurisdiction and authority
it has not heretofore possessed, but that it is the duty of
this court to do so at this stage of the proceeding, in order
that appellant may have the legislative order or enactment fixing its rates for future application at Tulsa reviewed by an appropriate federal court with the least
possible delay and cost, if such should later be found
necessary, resulting from an adverse decision by this
[the state] court."
The ruling of the state court was expressed in the following journal entry:
"Now on this 14th day of September 1937, the Court
having considered appellant's Petition for Rehearing in
the Nature of Judicial Review, doth overrule and deny
same, to which appellant is allowed exception."
At appellant's request, the state court granted supersedeas and stayed its mandate pending appellant's application for the allowance of an appeal to this Court and
the determination of the appeal if taken. An appeal was
then allowed by the Chief Justice of the state court. and
the case is thus brought here.
The Attorney General of the State, moving to dismiss
the appeal, insists that appellant's contention that the

S. W. BELL TEL. CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
206

Opinion of the Court.

action of the state court in denying the petition for rehearing "was a judicial review, is wholly erroneous"; that
the appeal is "from a purely legislative consideration of
the questions involved." The substance of the Attorney
General's argument is shown in the following statement:
"This Petition for Rehearing . . . was not sufficient to
confer, upon the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, jurisdiction and power to treat the record then before it as a new
cause involving a judicial review, and no record was before said court warranting said court to treat same as a
judicial appeal, nor was the said record, nor its contents,
treated as such by appellant, nor the court, and no judicial issues were raised in said legislative review. It is not
the rule to permit the character of controversies to be
completely changed, either in form or substance, after the
opinion of a court has been handed down, and this is
especially true when the same is sought to be accomplished, for the first time by a so-called petition for rehearing in which the only subject mentioned was the
request for a judicial review for the first time in the history of the case."
The Attorney General, however, does not concede that
the State of Oklahoma "does not furnish an adequate
judicial review of questions such as are involved in this
proposed appeal." On the contrary, "the State asserts
that appellant has, and has ha4, an adequate method of
relief." When pressed upon the argument at bar to state
what judicial remedy was open to appellant under the
state constitution, the Attorney General referred to the
power conferred upon the Supreme Court by the proviso
in § 20 of Artiele' IX to issue writs of mandamus and
prohibition to the Commission. No decision of the state
court as to the questions which would be open upon an
application for such a writ has been brought to our attention.
Appellant states that the question now presented is
one of first impression; that the action of the state court

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

in this case "constitutes the first construing of this [the
present] procedure which that court has ever made.
There are no specific precedents."
The novelty of the procedure, and the lack of exposition in the brief ruling, leave us in doubt as to the true
import of the denial of the petition for rehearing. In
view of the serious questions which would be raised if it
were determined that the State provides no means of
obtaining a judicial review of an order of the Commission fixing rates, alleged to be confiscatory, in the
case of a transportation or transmission company, we
should not reach such a conclusion in the absence of a
definite decision by the state court to that effect.
Neither party before us advances a contention that there
is such a lack- of judicial remedy. Appellant ays that
judicial review is available through the proceaure appellant has chosen and that the denial of its petition
for rehearing was judicial action. The Attorney General asserts the contrary, contending that judicial remedy
exists but must be sought in another manner. Butassuming that the State affords a judicial remedywhether the state court has denied appellant's petition
because an application for rehearing after what is conceded by both parties to be a legislative determination
was not the proper way under the state practice to invoke the judicial power, or has entertained the application and by its ruling has passed upon the controversy in
a judicial capacity, we have no means of knowing.
We have repeatedly held that it is essential to the jurisdiction of this Court in reviewing a decision of a court
of a State that it must appear affirmatively from the
record, not only that a federal question was presented
for decision to the highest court of the State having
jurisdiction but that its decision of the federal question
was necessary to the determination of the cause; that
the federal question was actually decided or that the

CENTURY INDEMNITY CO. v. NELSON.
206

213

Counsel for Parties.

judgment as rendered could not have been given without deciding it. De Saussure v. Gaillard, 127 U. S. 216,
234; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300, 306, 307; Wood
Mowing & Reaping Machine Co. v. Skinner, 139 U. S.
293, 295, 297; Whitney y. California,274 U. S. 357, 360,
361; Lynch v. New York, 293 U. S. 52, 54.
Applying this rule, the motion to dismiss must be
granted.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.
CENTURY INDEMNITY CO. v. NELSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 362.

Argued February 2, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

After the submission of a law case tried without a jury, the District
Court ordered "that judgment be entered for plaintiff . . . upon
findings of facts and conclusions of law to be presented." Thereafter, in accordance with a rule of the court, special findings
of fact and conclusions of law were proposed by each side; those
offered by the plaintiff were adopted by the judge and formal
judgment was ordered and entered. Held that the first order
was preliminary; that rejections of defendant's proposed findings
were rulings made "in the progress of the trial," within the
meaning of 28 U. S. C. § -875, and reviewable by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. P. 215.
90 F. (2d) 644, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

302 U. S. 674, to review the affirmance

of a judgment of the District Court in an action at law
tried without a jury.

Mr. Jewel Alexander, with whom Mr. Oliver Dibble
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Joe G. Sweet submitted on brief for respondent.

