S. C. HWY. DEPT. v. BARNWELL BROS.
161

177

Syllabus.

the previous adequate proof. Here, this Court holds that
at the conclusion of plaintiff's evidence the jury had adequate proof upon which to find accidental death, and
which would authorize a verdict that insured died as a
result of accident, but also holds that, after subsequent
contradictory evidence of defendant, the judge (not the
jury) could decide that plaintiff's adequate proof (presumption) had "disappeared" or had been overcome by
this subsequent contradictory testimony. This took from
the jury the right to decide the weight and effect of this
subsequent contradictory evidence. Such a rule gives
parties a trial by judge, but does not preserve, in its
entirety, that trial by jury guaranteed by the Seventh
Amendment to the Constitution. I cannot agree to a
conclusion which, I believe, takes away any part of the
constitutional right to have a jury pass upon the weight
of all of the facts introduced in evidence.
I believe the judgment of the court below should be
affirmed.
SOUTH CAROLINA STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT ET AL. V. BARNWELL BROTHERS, INC.,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 161. Argued January 4, 1938.-Decided February 14, 1938.
1. In the absence of national legislation covering the subject in its
relation to interstate commerce, a State, in order to conserve its
highways and promote safety thereon, may adopt regulations limiting the weight and width of the vehicles that use
them, applicable without discrimination to those moving in interstate commerce and to those moving only within the Stae. P. 184.
2. Such regulations being, in general, within the competency of the
State, judicial inquiry into their validity, under the commerce
clause as well as under the Fourteenth Amendment, is limited to
°

53383 .

:I8-12

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

the question whether the restrictions imposed are reasonably
adapted to the end sought. P. 190.
In resolving this question, the court can not act as Congress
does when, after weighing all the conflicting interests, state and
national, it determines when and how much the state regulatory
power shall yield to the larger interests of a national commerce;
nor is it called upon, as are state legislatures, to determine what,
in its judgment, is the most suitable restriction to be applied of
those that are possible, or to choose that one which in its opinion
is best adapted to all the diverse interests affected.
3. A South Carolina statute prohibits use on the state highways of
motor trucks and "semi-trailer" motor trucks wider than 90 inches
or heavier, including load, than 20,000 lbs. A federal court enjoined its enforcement on specified highways as to vehicles engaged
in interstate commerce. It found that much of the interstate
motor-truck traffic normally passing over these highways would
be barred from the State if the restrictions were enforced, and
concluded, that, in the light of their effect upon interstate commerce, the restrictions were unreasonable. To reach this conclusion, the court weighed conflicting evidence and made its own
determinations as to the weight and width of motor trucks commonly used in interstate traffic and the capacity of the specified
highways to accommodate such traffic without injury to them or
danger to their users. It found, among othe? things, that interstate carriage by motor truck has become a national industry;
that a very large proportion of the trucks used in interstate transportation are 96 inches wide and of gross weight, when loaded,
of more than 10 tons; that the specified highways constitute a
connected system, improved with the aid of federal money grants,
as a part of a national system; that not gross weight but wheel
or axle weight, is the factor to be considered in the preservation
of concrete highways; that the vehicles used in interstate commerce
are so designed and the pressure of their weight is so distributed
by their wheels and axles that gross loads of more than 20,000
lbs. can be carried over concrete roads without damage to the
surface; that the highways in question could sustain without injury a wheel load of from 8000 to 9000 lbs. or an axle load of
double those weights; that the weight limitation of the statute,
especially as applied to semi-trailer motor trucks, is unreasonable
as a means of preserving the highways and has no reasonable relation to safety of the public using them; and that the width limitation of 90 inches is unreasonable when applied to standard con-

S. C. HWY. DEPT. v. BARNWELL BROS.
177

179

Statement of the Case.

crete highways of the State, in view of the fact that all other
States permit a width of 96 inches, which is the standard width
of trucks engaged in interstate commerce. Held:
(1) That since the adoption of one weight or width regulation
rather than another is a legislative not a judicial choice, constitutionality is not to be determined by weighing in the judicial
scales the merits of the legislative choice and rejecting it if the
weight of evidence presented in court appears to favor a. different
standard. P. 191.
(2) The legislative judgment is presumed to be supported by
facts known to the legislature unless facts judicially known or
proved preclude that possibility. Id.
(3) In reviewing the present determination, this Court must
examine the record, not to see whether the findings of the court
below are supported by evidence, but to ascertain whether it is
possible to say that the legislative choice is without rational
basis. Id.
(4) Not only does the record fail to exclude that possibility,
but it shows affirmatively that there is adequate support for the
legislative judgment. Pp. 192 et seq.
17 F. (2d) 803, reversed.

APPEAL from a final decree of a district court of three
judges which enjoined the South Carolina State Highway Department, the State Public Service Commission
and numerous state officers, from enforcing, as against
the plaintiffs while engaged in interstate commerce on
certain specified highways, a statute limiting the weight
and width of motor trucks and "semi-trailer" trucks.
There was a provision in the decree that the injunction
should not extend to bridges not strong enough to support heavy trucks or too narrow to accommodate such
traffic safely, with a proviso that the State Highway Department should post certain warning notices at such
bridges, and should enforce the law against their use by
such trucks. The Interstate Commerce Commission and
two private corporations were permitted to intervene as

plaintiffs, and two railroad companies and the receiver
of another were permitted to intervene as defendants.

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Messrs. Steve C. Griffith and Thomas W. Davis, with
whom Messrs. John M. Daniel, Attorney General, J.
Ivey Humphrey and M. J. Hough, Assistant Attorneys
General, of South Carolina, Eugene S. Blease, Douglas
McKay, M. G. McDonald, and J. B. S. Lyles were on the
briefs, for appellants.
Messrs. S. King Funkhouser and Frank Coleman, with
whom Mr. J. Ninian Beall was on the brief, for appellees.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Mr. Otto Kerner, Attorney General of Illinois; Messrs.
Hubert Meredith, Attorney General, and M. B. Holifield,
Assistant Attorney General, of Kentucky; Messrs. William McCraw, Attorney General, and George P. Kirk.
patrick, Assistant Attorney General, of Texas, on behalf
of their respective States, in support of appellants; by
Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General
Jackson, and Mr. Elmer B. Collins, on behalf of the
United States, and by Mr. Cary D. Landis, Attorney General, on behalf of the State of Florida,-in support of
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Act No. 259 of the General Assembly of South Carolina,
of April 28, 1933, 38 Stat. 340, prohibits use on the state
highways of motor trucks and "semi-trailer motor trucks"
whose width exceeds 90 inches, and whose weight including load exceeds 20,000 pounds. For purposes of the
weight limitation § 2 of the statute provides that a semitrailer motor truck, which is a motor propelled truck with
a trailer whose front end is designed to be attached to and
supported by the truck, shall be considered a single unit.
The principal question for decision is whether these prohibitions impose an unconstitutional burden upon interstate commerce.

S. C. HWY. DEPT. v. BARNWELL BROS.
177

181

Opinion of the Court.

Appellees include the original plaintiffs below, who are
truckers and interstate shippers; the Interstate Commerce
Commission; and certain others who were permitted to
intervene ag parties plaintiff. The suit was brought in
the district court for eastern South Carolina against various state officials, to enjoin them from enforcing §§ 4 and
6 of the Act among others,1 on the ground that they have
been superseded by the Federal Motor Carrier Act of
1935, c. 498, 49 Stat. 546; that they infringe the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment; and that they
impose an" unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce. Certain railroads interested in restricting the
competition of interstate motor carriers were permitted
to intervene as parties defendant.
The district court of three judges, after hearing evidence,
ruled that the challenged provisions of the statute have
not been superseded by the Federal Motor Carrier Act,
and adopted as its own the ruling of the state Supreme
Court in State ex rel. Daniel v. John P. Nutt Co., 180
S. C. 19; 185 S. E. 25, that the challenged provisions,
being an exercise of the state's power to regulate the use
of its highways so as to protect them from injury and
to insure their safe and economical use, do not violate
the Fourteenth Amendment. But it held that the weight
and width prohibitions place an unlawful burden on interstate motor traffic passing over specified highways of the
state, which for the most part are of concrete or a concrete base surfaced with asphalt. It accordingly enjoined
the enforcement of the weight provision against interstate motor carriers on the specified highways, and also
"§ 4. Weight.-No person shall operate on any highway any motor
truck or semi-trailer truck [sic] whose gross weight, including load,
shall exceed 20,000 pounds.
"§ 6. Width.-No person shall operate on any highway any motor
truck or semi-trailer motor truck whose total outside width, including
any part of body or load, shall exceed 90 inches."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

the width limitation of 90 inches, except in the case of
vehicles exceeding 96 inches in width. It exempted from
the operation of the decree, bridges on those highways
"not constructed with sufficient strength to support the
heavy trucks of modern traffic or too narrow to accommodate such traffic safely," provided the state highway
department should place at each end of the bridge proper
notices warning that the use of the bridge is forbidden
by trucks exceeding the weight or width limits and provided the proper authorities take the necessary steps to
enforce the law against such use of the bridges. The case
comes here on appeal under § 266 of the Judicial Code.
The trial court rested its decision that the statute
unreasonably burdens interstate commerce, upon findings,
not assailed here, that there is a large amoutt of motor
truck traffic passing interstate in the southeastern part
of the United States, which would normally pass over the
highways of South Carolina, but which will be barred
from the state by the challenged restrictions if enforced,
and upon its conclusion that, when viewed in the light
of their effect upon interstate commerce, these restrictions
are unreasonable.
To reach this conclusion the court weighed conflicting
evidence and made its own determinations as to the
weight and width of motor trucks commonly used in
interstate traffic and the capacity of the specified highways of the state to accommodate such traffic without
injury to them or danger to their users. It found that
interstate carriage by motor trucks has become a national
industry; that from 85 to 90% of the motor trucks used
in interstate transportation are 96 inches wide and of
a gross weight, when loaded, of more than ten tons; that
only four other states prescribe a gross load weight as low
as 20,000 pounds; and that the American Association
of State Highway Officials and the National Conference
on Street and Highway Safety in the Department of

S. C. HWY. DEPT. v. BARNWELL BROS.
177

183

Opinion of the Court.

Commerce have recommended for adoption weight and
width limitations in which weight is limited to axle
loads of 16,000 to 18,000 pounds and width is limited
to 96 inches.
It found in detail that compliance with the weight and
width limitations demanded by the South Carolina Act
would seriously impede motor truck traffic passing to and
through the state and increase its cost; that 2,417 miles
of state highways, including most of those affected by the
injunction, are of the standard construction of concrete
or concrete base with asphalt surface, 7
or 8 inches
thick at the edges and 6 or 61/2 inches thick at the center;
that they are capable of sustaining without injury a wheel
load of 8,000 to 9,000 pounds or an axle load of double
those amounts, depending on whether the wheels are
equipped with high pressure or low pressure pneumatic
tires; that all but 100 miles of the specified highways are
from 18 to 20 feet in width; that they constitute a connected system of highways which have been improved
with the aid of federal money grants, as a part of a national system of highways; and that they constitute one
of the best highway systems in the southeastern part of
the United States.
It also found that the gross weight of vehicles is not
a factor to be considered in the preservation of concrete
highways, but that the appropriate factor to be considered is wheel or axle weight; the vehicles engaged in
interstate commerce are so designed and the pressure of
their weight is so distributed by their wheels and axles
that gross. loads of more than 20,000 pounds can be carried over concrete roads without damage to the surface;
that a gross weight limitation of that amount, especially
as applied to semi-trailer motor trucks, is unreasonable as
a means of preserving the highways; that it has no reasonable relation to safety of the public using the highways; and that the width limitation of 90 inches is un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

reasonable when applied to standard concrete highways of
the state, in view of the fact that all other states permit
a width of 96 inches, which is the standard width of
trucks engaged in interstate commerce.
In reaching these conclusions, and at the same time
holding that the weight and width limitations do not infringe the Fourteenth Amendment, the court proceeded
upon the assumption that the commerce clause imposes
upon state regulations to secure the safe and economical
use of highways a standard of reasonableness which is
more exacting when, applied to the interstate traffic than
that required by the Fourteenth Amendment as to all
traffic; that a standard of weight and width of motor vehicles which is an appropriate state regulation when applied to intrastate traffic may be prohibited because of its
effect on interstate commerce, although the conditions
attending the two classes of traffic with respect to safety
and protection of the highways are the same.
South Carolina has built its highways and owns and
maintains them. It has received from the federal government, in aid of its highway improvements, money
grants which have been expended upon the highways to
which the injunction applies. But appellees do not challenge here the ruling of the district court that Congress
has not undertaken to regulate the weight and size of
motor vehicles in interstate motor traffic, and has left undisturbed whatever authority in that regard the states
have retained under the Constitution.
While the constitutional grant to Congress of power
to regulate interstate commerce has been held to operate
of its own force to curtail state power in some measure,!
'State regulations affecting interstate commerce, whose purpose
or effect is to gain for those within the state an advantage at the
expense of those without, or to burden those out of the state without
any corresponding advantage to those within, have been thought to
impinge upon the constitutional prohibition even though Congress

S. C. hIWY. DEPT. v. BARNWELL BROS.
177

185

Opinion of the Court.

it did not forestall all state action affecting interstate coinmerce. Ever since Willson v. Black Bird Creek Marsh
Co., 2 Pet. 245, and Cooley v. Board of Port Wardens,
12 How. 299, it has been recognized that there are matters of local concern, the regulation of which unavoidably
involves some regulation of interstate commerce but
which, because of their local character and their number
and diversity, may never be fully dealt with by Congress. Nothwithstanding the commerce clause, such regulation in the absence of Congressional action has for the
most part been left to the states by the decisions of this
Court, subject to the other applicable constitutional
restraints.
The commerce clause, by its own force, prohibits discrimination against interstate commerce, whatever its
form or method, and the decisions of this Court have
recognized that there is scope for its like operation when
state legislation nominally of local concern is in point of
has not acted. Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485, 497-498; Wabash, St.
L. & P. R. Co. v. Illinois; 118 U. S. 557, 575-578; Bowman v. Chicago
& N. W. R. Co., 125 U. S. 465, 498; Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
James, 162 U. S. 650, 659, with which compare Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347, 358; Foster-FountainPacking
Co. v. Haydel, 278 U. S. 1, with which compare Geer v. Connecticut,
f61 U. S. 519, and New York ex rel. Silz v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31;
Baldwin v. Seelig, 294 U. S. 511, 524; see Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 27 et seq.
Underlying the stated rule has been the thought, often expressed
in judicial opinion, that when the regulation is of such a character
that its burden falls principally upon those without the state, legislative action is not likely to be subjected to those political restraints
which are normally exerted on legislation where it affects adversely
some interests within the state. See Cooley v. Board of Port Wardens,
12 How. 299, 315; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713, 731; Escanaba
Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678, 683; Lake Shore & M. S. R. Co. v.
Ohio ex rel. Lawrence, 173 U. S. 285, 294; cf. Pound v. Turck, 95
U. S. 459, 464; Gloucester Feiry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196,
205; Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, 499.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

fact aimed at interstate commerce, or by its necessary
operation is a means of gaining a local benefit by throwing the attendant burdens on those without the state.
Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489.
498; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622, 626.'

It

was to end these practices that the commerce clause was
adopted. See Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 187; Brown
v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 438-439; Cooley v. Board of
Port W7ardens, supra; State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232,

280; State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284,
289, 297-298; Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566, 574;
Maine v. Grand Trunk R. Co., 142 U. S. 217; Baldwin v.
Seelig, 294 U.. S. 511,. 522; II Farrand, Records of the
Federal Convention, 308; III id. 478, 574, 548; The Federalist, No. XLII; 1 Curtis, History of the Constitution,
502; Story on the Constitution, § 259. The commerce
clause has also been thought to set its own limitation
upon state control of interstate rail carriers so as to preclude the subordination of the efficiency and convenience
4
of interstate traffic to local service requirements.

Footnote 2, supra.
'See Illinois Central R. Co. v. Illipois, 163 U. S. 142; Cleveland,
C. C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514; Mississippi Railroad
Comm'n v. Illinois Central R. Co., 203 U. S. 335; Atlantic Coast
Line R. Co. v. Wharton, 207 U. S. 328; Herndon v. Chicago, R. I. -&
P. R. Co., 218 U. S. 135; Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Railroad Commission, 237 U. S. 220; St. Louis & San Francisco R. Co. v. Public
Service Comm'n, 254 U. S. 535. Cf. Gladson v. Minnesota, 166 U. S.
427; Lake Shore & M. S. R. Co. v. Ohio ex rel. Lawrence, 173
U. S. 285; Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co. v. Texas, 246 U. S. 58, where
statutes requiring local service no greater than necessary for fair
accommodation of local needs were held constitutional. Although
the states have usually been allowed to impose burdens on interstate
railroads in the interest of local safety-, Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S.
465; Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; New York,
N. H. & H. R. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628; Chicago, R. 1.
& P. R. Co. v. Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453; St. Louis, I. M. & S. R. Co.
v. Arkansas, 240 U. S. 518; cf. Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299,

S. C. HWY. DEPT. v. BARNWELL BROS.
177

187

Opinion of the Court.

But the present case affords no occasion for saying that
the bare possession of power by Congress to regulate the
ifnterstate traffic forces the states to conform to standards which Congress might, but has not adopted, or curtails their power to take measures to insure the safety
and conservation of their highways which may be applied to like traffic moving intrastate. Few subjects of
state regulation are so peculiarly of local concern as is
the use of state highways. There are few, local regulation of which is so inseparable from a substantial effect on
interstate commerce. Unlike the railroads, local highways are built, owned and maintained by the state or its
municipal subdivisions. The state has a primary and immediate concern in their safe and economical administration. The present regulations, or any others of like purpose, if they are to accomplish their end, must be applied
alike to interstate and intrastate traffic both moving in
large volume over the highways. The fact that they affect alike shippers in interstate and intrastate commerce
in large number within as well as without the state is a
safeguard against their abuse.
From the beginning it has been recognized that a state
can, if it sees fit, build and maintain its own highways,
canals and railroads and that in the absence of Congressional action their regulation is peculiarly within its competence, even though interstate commerce is materially
affected. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 416.
Congress not acting, state regulation of intrastate carriers has been upheld regardless of its effect upon interstate commerce. Id. With respect to the extent and
nature of the local interests to be protected and the unavoidable effect upon interstate and intrastate commerce
alike, regulations of the use of the highways are akin to
an unnecessarily harsh restriction, even though it is in the interest of
safety, has been held to be unconstitutional. Seaboard Air Line Ry.
v. Blackwell, 244 U. S. 310.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U.S.

local regulation of rivers, harbors, piers and docks, quarantine regulations, and game laws, which, Congress not
acting, have been sustained even though they materially
interfere with interstate commerce.5
Among the state regulations materially affecting interstate commerce which this Court has upheld, Congress not acting, are those
which sanction obstructions in navigable rivers, Willson v. Black-Bird
Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245; Ex parte McNiel, 13 Wall. 236;
Pound v. Turck, 95 U. S. 459; Wilson v. McNamee, 102 U. S. 572;
Huse v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543; cf. Sands v. Manistee River Improvement Co., 123 U. S. 288; approve the erection of bridges over navigable streams, Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713; Escanaba Co. v.
Chicago, 107 U. S. 678; Cardwell v. American River Bridge Co., 113
U. S. 205; Willamette Iron Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1;" Lake
Shore & Il. S. R. Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 365; require payment of
fees as an incident to use of harbors, Cooley v. Board of Port Wardens, 12 How. 299; Steamship Co. v. Joliffe, 2 Wall. 450; Anderson v.
Pacific Coast S. S. Co., 225 U. S. 187; Clyde Mallory Lines v. Alabama ex rel. State-Docks Comm'n, 296 U. S. 261; cf. Mobile County
v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691; control the location of docks, Cummings
v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410; impose wharfage charges, Packet Co. v.
Keokuk, 95 U. S. 80; Packet Co. v. Catlettsburg, 105 U. S. 559;
TransportationCo. v. Parkersburg, 107 U. S. 691; Ouachita Packet
Co. v. Aiken, 121 U. S. 444; establish inspection and quarantine laws,
Turner v. Ma. yland, 107 U. S. 38; Morgan's S. S. Co. v. Louisiana
Board of Health, 118 U. S. 455; Patapsco Guano Co. v. North Carolina Board of Agriculture, 171 U. S. 345; Rasmussen v. Idaho, 181
U. S. 198; Smith v. St. Louis & S. W. R. Co., 181 U. S. 248; Reid v.
Colorado, 187 U. S. 137; New Mexico ex rel. McLean & Co. v.
Denver & R. G. R. Co., 203 U. S. 38; Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S.
251; Red "C" Oil Mfg. Co. v. Board of Agriculture, 222 U. S. 380;
Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501; Pure Oil Co. v. Minnesota, 248 U. S.
158; Mintz v. Baldwin, 289 U. S. 346; cf. Railroad Co. v. Husen,
95 U. S. 465; Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78; and regulate the taking or exportation of domestic
game, Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519; New York ex rel. Silz v.
Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31; cf. Foster-FountainPacking Co. v. Haydel,
278 U. S. 1, 13, holding invalid a local regulation ostensibly designed
to conserve a natural resource but whose purpose and effect were to
benefit Louisiana enterprise at the expense of businesses outside
the state.

S. C. HWY. DEPT. v. BARNWELL BROS.
177

189

Opinion of the Court.

The nature of the authority of the state over its own
highways has often been pointed out by this Court. It
may not, under the guise of regulation, discximinate
against, interstate commerce. But "In the absence of
national legislation especially covering the subject of
interstate commerce, the State may rightly prescribe uniform regulations adapted to promote safety upon its highwdys and the conservation of their use, applicable alike
to vehicles moving in interstate commerce and those of
its own citizens." Morris v. Duby, 274 U. S. 135, 143.
This formulation has been repeatedly affirmed, Clark v.
Poor,274 U. S.554, 557; Sprout v. South Bend, 277 U. S.
163, 169; Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S.374, 389, 390; cf.
Morf v. Bingaman, 298 U. S.407, and never disapproved.
This Court has often sustained the exercise of that power
although it has burdened or impeded interstate commerce.
It has upheld weight limitations lower than those presently imposed, applied alike to motor traffic moving inteirstate and intrastate. Morris v. Duby, supra; Sproles v.
Binford, supra. Restrictions favoring passenger traffic over
the carriage of interstate merchandise by truck have
been similarly sustained, Sproles v. Binford, supra;
Bradley v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 289 U. S.92, as has
the exaction of a reasonable fee for the use of the highways. Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610; Kane v.
New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160; Interstate Busses Corp. v.
Blodgett, 276 U. S. 245; Morf v. Bingaman, supra; cf.
Ingels v. Morf, 300 U. S.290.
In each of these cases regulation involves a burden
on interstate commerce. But so long as the state action
does not discriminate, the burden is one which the Constitution permits because it is an inseparable incident of
the exercise of a legislative authority, which, under the
Constitution, has been left to the states.
Congress, in the exercise of its plenary power to regulate interstate commerce, may determine whether the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

burdens imposed on it by state regulation, otherwise permissible, are too great, and may, by legislation designed
to secure uniformity or in other respects to protect the
national interest in the commerce, curtail to some extent
the state's regulatory power. But that is a legislative,
not a judicial function, to be performed in the light of
the Congressional judgment of what is appropriate regulation of interstate commerce, and the extent to which,
in that field, state power and local interests should be
required to yield to the national authority and interest.
In the absence of such legislation the judicial function,
under the commerce clause as well as the Fourteenth
Amendment, stops with the inquiry whether the state
legislature in adopting regulations such as the present
has acted within its province, and whether the means of
regulation chosen are reasonably adapted to the end
sought. Sproles v. Binford, supra;Stephenson v. Binford,
287 U. S. 251, 272.
Here the first inquiry has already been resolved by our
decisions that a state may impose non-discriminatory restrictions with respect to the character of motor vehicles
moving in interstate commerce as a safety measure and
as a means of securing the economical use of its highways.
In resolving the second, courts do not sit as legislatures,
either state or national. They cannot act as Congress
does when, after weighing all the conflicting interests,
state and national, it determines when and how much
the state regulatory power shall yield to the larger interests of a national commerce. And in reviewing a state
highway regulation where Congress has not acted, a court
is not called upon, as are state legislatures, to determine
what, in its judgment, is the most suitable, restriction to
be applied of those that are possible, or to choose that
one which in its opinion is best adapted to all the diverse
interests affected. Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg,
107 U. S. 691, 695. When the action of a legislature is

S. C. HWY. DEPT. v. BARNWELL BROS.
177

191

Opinion of the Court.

within the scope of its power, fairly debatable questions
as to its reasonableness, wisdom and propriety are not for
the determination of courts, but for the legislative body,
on which rests the duty and responsibility of decision.
Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 30; Laurel Hill
Cemetery v. San Francisco, 216 U. S. 358, 365; Price v.
Illinois, 238 U. S. 446, 451; Hadacheck v. Sebastian, 239
U. S. 394, 408-414; Thomas Cusack Co. v. Chicago, 242
U. S. 526, 530; Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S.
365, 388; Zahn v. Board of Public Works, 274 U. S. 325,
328; Standard Oil Co. v. Marysville, 279 U. S. 582, 584.
This is equally the case when the legislative power is one
which may legitimately place an incidental burden on interstate commerce. It is not any the less a legislative
power committed to the states because it affects interstate commerce, and courts are not any the more entitled,
because interstate commerce is affected, to substitute their
own for the legislative judgment. Morris v. Duby, supra,
143; Sproles v. Binford, supra, 389, 390; Minnesota Rate
Cases, supra, 399, 400; Smith v. St. Louis & S. IV. R. Co.,
181 U. S. 248, 257; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 152;
New York ex rel. Silz v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31,
42, 43.
Since the adoption of one weight or width regulation,
rather than another, is a legislative not a judicial choice,
its constitutionality is not to be determined by weighing
in the judicial scales the merits of the legislative choice
and rejecting it if the weight of evidence presented in
court appears to favor a different standard. Cf. Worcester County Trust Co. v. Riley, 302 U. S. 292, 299.
Being a legislative judgment it is presumed to be supported by facts known to the legislature unless facts judicially known or proved preclude that possibility. Hence,
in reviewing the present determination we examine the
record, not to see whether the findings of the court below
are supported by evidence, but to ascertain upon the whole

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

record whether it is possible to say that the legislative
choice is without rational basis. Standard Oil Co. v.
Marysville, supra; Borden's Farm Products Co. v. Ten
Eyck, 297 U. S. 251, 263; s. c. 11 F. Supp. 599, 600. Not
only does the record fail to exclude that possibility, but
it shows affirmatively that there is adequate support for
the legislative judgment.
At the outset it should be noted that underlying much
of the controversy is the relative merit of a gross weight
limitation as against an axle or wheel weight limitation.
While there is evidence that weight stresses on concrete
roads are determined by wheel rather than gross load
weights, other elements enter into choice of the type of
weight limitation. There is testimony to show that the
axle or wheel weight limitation is the more easily enforced through resort to weighing devices adapted to ascertaining readily the axle or wheel weight. But it appears that in practice the weight of truck loads is not
evenly distributed over axles and wheels; that commonly
the larger part of the load-sometimes as much as 70
to 80%-rests on the rear axle and that it is much easier
for those who load trucks to make certain that they have
complied with a gross load weight limitation than with
an axle or wheel weight limitation. While the report of
the National Conference on State and Highway Safety,
on which the court below relied, suggested a wheel weight
limitation of 8,000 or 9,000 pounds, it also suggested that
a gross weight limitation might be adopted and should
be subject to the recommended wheel limitation. But
the conference declined to fix the amount of gross weight
limitation, saying: "In view of the varying conditions of
traffic, and lack of uniformity in highway construction in
the several States, no uniform gross-weight limitations
are here recommended for general adoption throughout
the country." The choice of a weight limitation based
on convenience of application and consequent lack of

S. C. HWY. DEPT. v BARNWELL BROS.
177

193

Opinion of the Court.

need for rigid supervisory enforcement is for the legislature, and we cannot say that its preference for the one
over the other is in any sense arbitrary or unreasonable.
The choice is not to be condemned because the legislature
prefers a workable standard, less likely to be violated
than another under which the violations will probably be
increased but more easily detected. It is for the legislature to say whether the one test or the other will in
practical operation better protect the highways from the
risk of excessive loads.
If gross load weight is adopted as the test it is obvious
that the permissible load must be somewhat lighter than
if the axle or wheel weight test were applied. With the
latter the gross weight of a loaded motor truck can never
exceed twice the axle and four times the wheel limit. But
the fact that the rear axle may and often does support as
much as 70 or 80% of the gross load, with wheel weight
in like proportion, requires that a gross load limit be fixed
at considerably less than four times the permissible wheel
limit.
There was testimony before the court to support its
conclusion that the highways in question are capable of
sustaining without injury a wheel load of 8,000 or 9,000
pounds, the difference depending upon the character of
the tire in use, as against a wheel load of as much as 8,100
pounds, which would be possible under the statutory had
limit of 20,000 pounds as applied to motor trucks, 'nd
approximates the axle limit in addition to the gross load
limit recommended by the National Conference on Street
and Highway Safety. Much of this testimony appears
to have been based on theoretical strength of concrete
highways laid under ideal conditions, and none of it was
based on an actual study of the highways of South Carolina or of the subgrade and other road building conditions
which prevail there and which have a material bearing on
the strength and durability of such highways. There is
53: ',3°
-- 8 -- 1

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court..

303 U. S.

uncontradicted testimony that approximately 60% of
the South Carolina standard paved highways in question
were built without a longitudinal center joint which has
since become standard practice, the portion of the concrete surface adjacent to the joint being strengthened by
reinforcement or by increasing its thickness; and that
owing to the distribution of the stresses on concrete roads
when in use, those without a center joint have a tendency to develop irregular longitudinal cracks. As the
concrete in the center 6f such roads is thinner than that
at the edges, the result is that the highway is split into
two irregular segments, each with a weak inner edge
which, according to the expert testimony, is not capable
of supporting indefinitely wheel loads in excess of 4,200
pounds.
There is little in the record to mark any controlling
distinction between the application of the gross load
weight limitation to the motor truck and to the semitrailer motor truck. There is testimony which is applicable to both types of vehicle, that in case of accident the danger from the momentum of a colliding vehicle
increases with gross load weight. The record is without
convincing evidence of the actual distribution, in practice,
of the gross load weight over the wheels and axles of the
permissible types of semi-trailer motor trucks, but this
does not enable us to say that the legislature was without
substantial ground for concluding that the relative advantages of a gross load over a wheel weight limitation are
substantially the same for the two types, or that it could
not have concluded that they were so nearly alike for
regulatory purposes as to justify the adoption of a single
standard for both, as a matter of practical convenience.
Even if the legislature were to accept appellees' assumption that net load weights are, in practice, evenly dis-.
tributed over the wheels supporting the load of a permissible semi-trailer so that with the statutory gross

S. C. tHWY. DEPT. v. BARNWELL BROS.
177

195

Opinion of the Court

load limit the load on the rear axle would be about 8,000
pounds it might, as we have seen, also conclude that the
danger point would then have been reached in the case
of some 1,200 miles of concrete state roads constructed
without a center joint.
These considerations, with the presumption of constitutionality, afford adequate support for the weight. limitation without reference to other items of the testimony
tending to support it. Furthermore, South Carolina's
own experience is not to be ignored. Before adoption of
the limitation South Carolina had had experience with
higher weight limits. In 1924 it had adopted a combined
gross weight limit of 20,000 pounds for vehicles of four
wheels or less, and an axle weight limit of 15.000 pounds.
In 1930 it had adopted a combined gross weight limit of
121 tons with a five ton axle weight limit for vehicles
having more than two axles. Act No. 721, 33 Stat. 1182;
Act No. 685, 36 Stat. 1192, 1193. In 1931 it appointed
a commission to investigate motor transportation in the
state, to recommend legislation, and to report in 1932.
The present weight limitation was recommended by the
commission after a full consideration of relevant data,
including a report by the state engineer who had constructed the concrete highways of the state and who
advised a somewhat lower limitation as necessary for their
preservation. The fact that many states have adopted
a different standard is not persuasive. The conditions
under which highways must be built in the several states,
their construction and the demands made upon them, are
not uniform. The road building art, as the record shows,
is far from having attained a scientific certainty and precision, and scientific precision is not the criterion for the
exercise of the constitutional regulatory power- of the
states. Sproles v. Binford, supra, 388. The legislature,
being free to exercise its own judgment, is not bound by
that of other legislatures. It would hardly be contended

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

that if all the states had adopted a single standard none,
in the light of its own experience and in the exercise of its
judgment upon all the complex elements which enter into
the problem, could change it.
Only a word need be said as to the width limitation.
While a large part of the highways in question are from
18 to 20 feet in width, approximately 100 miles .re only
16 feet wide. On all the use of a 96 inch truck leaves
but a narrow margin for passing. On the road 16 feet
wide it leaves none. The 90 inch limitation has been in
force in South Carolina since 1920 and the concrete highways which it has built appear to be adapted to vehicles
of that width. The record shows without contradiction
that the use of heavy loaded trucks on the highways tends
to force other traffic off the concrete surface onto the
shoulders of the road adjoining its edges and to increase
repair costs materially. It appears also that as the width
of trucks is increased it obstructs the view of the highway,
causing much inconvenience and increased hazard in its
use. It plainly cannot be said that the width of trucks
used on the highways in South Carolina is unrelated to
their safety and cost of maintenance, or that a 90 inch
width limitation adopted to safeguard the highways of
the State, is not within the range of the permissible legislative choice.
The regulatory measures taken by South Carolina are
within its legislative power. They do not infringe the
Fourteenth Amendment, and the resulting burden on interstate commerce is not forbidden.
Reversed.
MR..JUSTICE

CARDOZO

and MR.

JUSTICE REED

part in the consideration or decision of this case.

took no

