HENNEFORD v. NOR. PACIFIC RY.
Opinion of the Court.

HENNEFORD

v. NORTHERN PACIFIC
RAILWAY CO.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 243.

Awgued January 11, 1938.-Decided January 31, 1938.

Upon appeal from a decree of the District Court enjoining the enforcement of a state tax, the amount of which, as alleged in the
bill, was less than $3,000, held:
1. That the District Court had no jurisdiction notwithstanding other allegations to the effect that failure to pay would entail
much greater damage to the plaintiff by way of penalties, seizure
and sale of property and damage to business. Healy v. Ratta,
292 U. S. 263, 268. P. 19.
2. A motion for leave to file an affidavit to supplement the
record for the purpose of showing the amount of the tax for succeeding months must be denied. Id.
3. The case should be decided upon the record before this
Court; the jurisdiction of the District Court should be tested by
the case made by the bill; and that court should be directed to
dismiss for want of jurisdiction. Id.
15 F. Supp. 302, reversed.

Mr. R. G. Sharpe, Assistant Attorney General, with
whom Mr. G. TV. Hamilton, Attorney General, of the State
of Washington, was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. M. L. Countryman, Jr., with whom Mr. Lorenzo

B. daPonte was on the brief, for appellee.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Robert Brennan, Leo E.
Sievert, and Harry H. McElroy filed a brief on behalf of

the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. et al., as amici

curiae, in support of appellee.
PER CURIAM.

This suit was brought to restrain the enforcement
against the Northern Pacific Railway Company of the
"compensating tax" imposed by Title IV of Chapter 180
53383'---3-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

of the Laws of Washington of 1935. The Act levies a
tax of 2% for the privilege of using within the State any
article of tangible personal property purchased subsequent to April 30, 1935. Cf. Henneford v. Silas Mason
Co., 300 U. S. 577. The bill alleged that in the necessary
maintenance, operation and repair of its railroad, the
Company purchases materials, supplies, shop machinery
and tools, a part of which are bought in other States and
transported into the State of Washington, and that such
purchases in other States in May and June, 1935, as shown
by the list annexed to the complaint and made a part of it,
amounted to $102,204.18, including the cost of transportation. The bill also alleged that the defendants (appellants here) composing the State Tax Commission of the
State of Washington had demanded the tax of 2% of this
sum and unless enjoined would assess penalties on the
tax amounting to $2,044.08, and would cause summary
process to be issued for the seizure and sale of the Company's property and that its business would thereby be
interfered with to its irreparable damage in the sum of
more than $100,000, and that the Company was without
an adequate remedy at law. The validity of the tax was
assailed under the commerce and due process clauses of
*the Federal Constitution. An interlocutory injunction
was sought and the case was heard in the District Court
by three judges. 28 U. S. C. 380. It was stipulated that
the case be submitted for final determination on its merits
and decree was entered permanently enjoining the enforcement of the tax. 15 F. Supp. 302. The case 6omes here
on appeal.
By its order of October 11, 1937, this Court noted probable jurisdiction and directed the attention of counsel
to the questions as to (1) the existence of the required
jurisdictional amount and (2) the adequacy of the remedy at law. Appellants concede that in view of the terms
of the statute prohibiting any action to recover the tax,

HENNEFORD v. NOR. PACIFIC RY.
17

Opinion of the Court.

if paid, except as therein provided (Laws of Washington,
1935, c. 180, Title XVIII, ยง 199) there would be no remedy available at law in the federal court and hence that
federal equity jurisdiction would not be ousted. City
Bank Co. v. Schnader, 291 U. S. 24, 29. With respect to
the jurisdictional amount, it appears on the face of the
complaint that the tax, the enforcement of which is sought
to be enjoined, amounted only to $2,044.08 and that the
damages alleged would be incurred only by failure to make
the required payment. It follows that the requisite jurisdictional amount is not involved. See Healy v. Ratta,
292 U. S. 263, 268, and cases there cited.
Appellee moves for leave to file an affidavit to supplement the record for the purpose of showing the amount
of the tax for succeeding months. The motion is denied.
The Court is of the opinion that the case should be decided upon the record before it and that the jurisdiction
of the District Court should be tested by the case made
by the bill of complaint. The judgment is reversed and
the cause is remanded to the District Court with directions to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction.
Reversed.
took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

