HELVERING v. BULLARD.
Statement of the Case.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. BULLARD, EXECUTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 349. Argued February 1, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.
1. A decree in Illinois, entered by consent in compromise of litigation, operated to abrogate a trust as violative of the rule against
perpetuities and to establish the trustor's absolute ownership of
the assets. Held, that a new deed of trust made by the trustor
pursuant to the compromise and conveying to some of the parties
the same beneficial interests that they would have received under
the original conveyance if valid, can not be related back to the
creation of the original trust, but must stand independently, for
the purpose of determining the application of a federal tax provision enacted between the dates of the two conveyances. P. 300.
2. Sec. 302 (c) of the Rev. Act of 1926, as amended by Joint Resolution of March 3, 1931, requires the inclusion in a decedent's gross
taxable estate of property of which the decedent has at any time
made a transfer, by trust or otherwise, under which the transferor
retained for life the possession or enjoyment of the income from
the property, except in case of a bona fide sale for an adequate
and full consideration in money or money's worth. Held:
(1) That the exception did not apply where the transferee
gave up nothing but an interest in an earlier transfer, which was
adjudged void by a consent decree entered in pursuance of a
compromise. P. 300.
(2) The joint resolution is valid as to future non-testamentary
transfers in the nature of gifts, since:
(a) Congress may lay an excise on gifts at different rates forthose which are and those which are not subject to reservation of
a life estate; calling it an estate tax does not affect its validity.
P. 301.
(b) Congress may treat such transfers as testamentary to prevent avoidance of estate taxes. P. 301.
90 F. 2d 144, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 671, to review the reversal by the
court below of a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals,
34 B. T. A. 243, upholding an estate tax.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U.S.

Assistant Attorncy General Morris, with whom Solicitor General Reed, and Messrs Sewall Key, Ellis N.
Slack, and Arnold Raum were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Samuel S. Holmes, with whom Messrs. William D.
Mitchell and Lorentz B. Knouff were on the brief, for
respondent.

By leave of Court, Mr. Herman Aaron filed a brief
as amicus curiae, in support of respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner challenges a decision holding unconstitutional the provision of § 302 (c) of the Revenue Act of
1926,1 as amended by Joint Resolution of Congress of
March 3, 1931,2 which requires the inclusion in a decedent's gross taxable estate of property transferred by
irrevocable deed with reservation of a life estate. On account of alleged conflict with our decisions and of the important constitutional question presented we granted the
writ of certiorari.
Clara R. Smith, a resident of Illinois, died in 1933. In
1927 she transferred securities, by irrevocable deed, to
her son Edward, in trust to pay the income to her for
life and, upon her death, to divide the corpus into three
equal parts, the income from a part to be paid to each
of her three children, Lora, Bessie, and Edward, during
their lives, with remainders of the daughters' shares to
their respective children; upon Edward's death leaving
no issue the income from his share to be paid to his
widow for life and, upon her death, the remainder to be
added, in equal shares, to the daughters' trust funds.
Edward died in 1928 leaving a widow but no issue.
1c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 70; U. S. C. Tit. 26, § 411 (c).
2 c. 454, 46 Stat. 1516; U. S. C. Tit. 26, § 411 (c).

HELVERING v. BULLARD.
Opinion of the Court.

297

In 1931 dissatisfaction with the administration of the
trust impelled the decedent to seek its abrogation. Examination of the instrument disclosed violation of the
rule against perpetuities. A bill was accordingly filed in
an Illinois state court to have the trust declared void.
The son's widow answered denying invalidity. A guardian ad litem representing the interests of infant beneficiaries in remainder also opposed the prayer of the bill.
Subsequently, to avoid family discord and amicably to
settle the pending litigation, a compromise agreement
was made by the decedent and all the adult beneficiaries,
consenting to the entry of a decree on condition that the
decedent would declare a new trust of approximately onethird of the securities in the existing trust whereby Edward's widow should enjoy a life interest identical to that
given her by the 1927 trust and, upon her death, the remainder should be equally divided between the decedent's
daughters. The agreement further required the making
of testamentary provision for the decedent's daughters
and grandchildren, and certain outright gifts to the latter.
In pursuance of the agreement, the decedent, on February 17, 1932, executed a new irrevocable deed of trust
conveying approximately one-third of the corpus of the
former trust and reserving to herself a life interest in the
income, and executed a new will. A consent decree was
then entered in the equity suit, the guardian ad litem
representing to the court that the settlement would be
advantageous to the minor beneficiaries.
The Commissioner's inclusion of the corpus of the
trust of February 17, 1932, in the gross estate was sustained by the Board o. Tax Appeals.' The Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed the Board's decisiorf.4 We are of
opinion that the action of the Commissioner and the
Board should have been affirmed.
334 B. T. A. 243.

490 F. (2d) 141.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U.S.

First. Both the Board and the Court held that the
decree of the state court, notwithstanding its entry pursuant to stipulation, adjudicated the rights of the parties,
abrogated the trust of 1927, and established the decedent's absolute ownership of the assets. This conclusion
is fully supported by decisions of the Supreme Court of
Illinois and we accept it. It follows that the respondent's
contention that the transfer of 1932 has no independent
existence and that, in legal effect, the trust for the son's
widow stems from the deed of 1927, must be overruled.
Second. The trust of 1932 was created after the adoption of the Joint Resolution of March 3, 1931, which required inclusion in the gross estate of the value at the
date of death of all property to the extent of any interest
therein of which a decedent has at any time made a
transfer by trust or otherwise under which the transferor
retained for life the possession or enjoyment of the income
from the property, except in case of a bona fide sale for
an adequate and full consideration in money or money's
worth. It is urged that the settlement of the dispute as
to the invalidity of the trust deed of 1927, conditioned,
as it was, upon the making of the new trust, constitutes
such a bona fide sale, for adequate consideration, as to
bring the trust of 1932 within the exception. The argument is that the decree setting aside the 1927 trust merely
gave judicial sanction to the compromise agreement and

that the contract was for an adequate and valuable consideration and would, therefore, have been- enforced by a
court of equity at the instance of any of the parties to it.
While recognizing that a decree thus begotten has the
same force and effect as a decree in invitum, the respondent seeks to go behind the decree and spell out a sale by
Edward's widow of her interest under the 1927 trust for
the interest conferred upon her by the 1932 trust. The
court below has held the position untenable and we

HELVERING v. BULLARD.
297

Opinion of the Court.

agree. The decree declared the 1927 trust void and revested the trust assets in the decedent. If that trust
was, as the Illinois court decreed, void and ineffective
because it violated the rule against perpetuities the son's
widow took no interest under it and gave ifothing to
procure the 1932 transfer.
Third. The Commissioner relies not only upon the
Joint Resolution of March 3, 1931, but upon § 803 (a) of
the Revenue Act of 1932.' We need not consider the
latter since the Joint Resolution, if legally enforcible, in
express terms authorized his inclusion of the trust fund
in the decedent's gross estate. As the Resolution was
adopted nearly a year prior to the creation of the 1932
trust no claim is or can be made that, as to that transaction, it is retroactive. The contention is that the transfer was inter vivos, was presently effective, was irrevocable, was not made in contemplation of, or effective at,
death, and that Congress was, therefore, without power
to make it the subject of an estate or inheritance tax;
that, while the transfer might, by appropriate legislation, have been taxed as a gift, to tax it as in the nature
of a testamentary disposition is a denial of due process.
The contention is unsound for several reasons. Since
Congress may lay an excise upon gifts it is of no significance that the exaction is denominated an estate tax
or is found in a statute purporting to levy an estate tax.
Moreover, Congress having the right to classify gifts of
different sorts might impose an excise at one rate upon a
gift without reservation, of a life estate and at another
rate upon a gift with such reservation. Such a classification would not be arbitrary or unreasonable. A further
vindication of the exaction is the authority of Congress
to treat as testamentary, transfers with reservation of a
5

c. 209, 47 Stat. 169, 279; U. S. C.iTit. 26, § 411 (a).

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U.S.

power or an interest in the donor. The legislative history of the Joint Resolution, to which reference is made
in Hassett v. Welch, post, p. 303, demonstrates that the
purpose of the legislation was to prevent avoidance of
estate taxes. As has been said by the Court of Appeals of New York: 6 "It is true that an, ingenious mind
may devise other means of avoiding an inheritance tax,
but the one commonly used is a transfer with reservation
of a life estate."
We have recently sustained the prospective operation
of a provision including in the gross estate property which
a decedent has transferred retaining power alone, or in
conjunction with any other person, to alter, amend, or
revoke.' We held the purpose of the clause was to prevent avoidance of tax and the measure was reasonably
calculated to that end. As applied to a trust created
after its enactment the Joint Resolution does not violate
the Fifth Amendment.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.
and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo

"In the Matter of Keeney, 194 N. Y. 281, 287; 87 N. E. 428;
affirmed 222 U. S. 525.
7 Helvering v. City Bank Farmers T. Co., 296 U. S. 85, 90. Compare Milliken v. United States, 283 U. S. 15; Tyler v. United States,
281 U. S. 497.

