OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

301, 325. In the Rogers case we held that authority not
controlling. Berliner disclosed an entirely novel principle; he utilized the flat disc having a smooth bottomed
groove with spiral waves in its sides not only to agitate
the needle connected to the diaphragm, but, in combination with a swinging arm, to propel the needle lengthwise the groove. In his 'combination, the disc not only
performed a new function but performed it in combination with another new element,-the swinging arm
which carried the needle.
We conclude that Butler's effort, by the use of a combination claim, to extend the monopoly of his invention
of an improved form of chuck or coupler to old parts or
elements having no new function when operated in connection with the coupler renders the claim void.
Decree reversed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

and

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

took no part in the consideration or decision of this-case.

NEW NEGRO ALLIANCE v. SANITARY GROCERY
CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 511.

Argued March 2, 3, 1938.-Decided March 28, 1938.

An association of Negroes, organized for the mutual improvement
of its members and the promotion of civic, educational, benevolent,
and charitable enterprises, requested a Grocery Company to adopt
a policy of employing Negro clerks, in the course of personnel
changes, in certain stores of the company patronized largely by
colored people but in which no colored clerks were employed. The
request was ignored; whereupon the organization caused a picket,
*The opinion herein is reported as amended by Order of April 25,
1938, see 304 U. S.

NEW NEGRO ALLIANCE v. GROCERY CO.
552

553

Argument for Petitioners.

bearing a placard reading "Do Your Part! Buy Where You Can
Work! No Negroes Employed Here!" to patrol in front of one
of the stores, on one day, and caused, or threatened to cause, a
similar patrol of two other stores. Held:
1. That, within the meaning of the Act of Mar. 23, 1932, § 13;
29 U. S. C., § 113-the "Norris-LaGuardia Act"-there was a
"labor dispute" in which the Negro organization and its officers
were "persons interested." P. 559.
The fact that the dispute was "racial," in that it grew from racial
discrimination, does not remove the case from the scope of the
Act.
2. Under §§ 4 and 7 of the Act, the District Court was without
jurisdiction to issue an injunction in the premises, against the
Negro organization and its officers at the suit of the Grocery
Company. P. 561.
92 F. 2d 510, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 679, to review the affirmance of
a decree enjoining the present petitioner from picketing,
boycotting, etc. the stores of the respondent. The case
was decided below on bill and answer.

Messrs. Belford V. Lawson, Jr. and Thurman L. Dodson, with whom Mr. Theodore M. Berry was on the brief,
for petitioners.
Mr. A. Coulter Wells, with whom Mr. William E. Carey,
Jr. was on the brief, for respondent.
The court below properly held that the matter in controversy herein was not comprehended by the Labor Disputes Act of March 23, 1932, Green v. Samuelson, 168
Md. 421; Beck-Hazard Shoe Corp. v. Johnson, 274 N. Y.
Supp. 946.
The relationship of employer and employee must exist,
or a dispute must grow out of that relationship, before the
Labor Disputes Act has application. United Electric Coal
Companies v. Rice, 80 F. 2d 1; Keith Theatre v. Vacho,,,
187 A. 692.
Petitioners, having admitted the act of picketing the
stores of the respondent, were properly enjoined by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

trial court. Jonas Glass Co. v. Glass Bottle Blowers' Assn.,
72 N. J. Eq. 653; Pierce v. Stablemen's Union, 165 Cal.
70; American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Central Trades
Council, 257 U. S. 184; Elkind & Sons v. Retail Clerks
I. Protective Assn., 169 A. 494; Truax v. Corrigan, 257
U. S. 312; Beck v. Teamsters' Protective Union, 118 Mich.
520.
The proposition is well established that a combination
looking tuwards the domination or ruination of the business of another by fraud, violence or coercion is fundamentally unlawful. Waitresses Union v. Benish Restaurant Co., 6 F. 2d 568; Kinloch Telephone Co. v. Local
Union No. 2. 275 F. 241; Quinlivan v. Dail-OverlandCo.,
274 F. 56.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The matter in controversy is whether the case made
by the pleadings involves or grows out of a labor dispute within the meaning of § 13 of the Norris-La Guardia Act.'
The respondent, by bill filed in the District Court of
the District of Columbia, sought an injunction restraining the petitioners and their agents from picketing its
stores and engaging in other activities injurious to its
business. The petitioners answered, the cause was heard
upon bill and answer, and an injunction was awarded.
The United States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia affirmed the decree." The importance of
the question presented and asserted conflict with the decisions of this and other federal courts moved us to grant
certiorari.
'Act of March 23, 1932, c. 90, 47 Stat. 70, 73, U. S. C. Tit. 29.

§ 113.
267

App. D. C. 359; 92 F. (2d) 510.

NEW NEGRO ALLIANCE v. GROCERY CO. 555
552

Opinion of the Court.

As the case was heard upon the bill and a verified answer the facts upon which decision must rest are those
set forth in the bill and admitted or not denied by the
answer and those affirmatively set up in the answer.
The following facts alleged in the bill are admitted
by the answer. Respondent, a Delaware corporation, ope,'ates 255 retail grocery, meat, and vegetable stores, a
warehouse and a bakery in the District of Columbia and
employs both white and colored persons. April 3, 1936,
it opened a new store at 1936 Eleventh Street, N. W.,
installing personnel having an acquaintance with the
trade in the vicinity. Petitioner, The New Negro Alliance, is a corporation composed of colored persons, organized for the mutual improvement of its members and
the promotion of civic, educational, benevolent, and charitable enterprises. The individual petitioners are officers
of the corporation. The relation of employer and employes does not exist between the respondent and the
petitioners or any of them. The petitioners are not engaged in any business competitive with that of the respondent, and the officers, members, or representatives of
the Alliance are not engaged in the same business or occupation as the respondent or its employes.
As to other matters of fact, the state of the pleadings
may be briefly summarized. The bill asserts: the petitioners have made arbitrary and summary demands upon
the respondent that it engage and employ colored persons
in managerial and sales positions in the new store and in
various other stores; it is essential to the conduct of the
business that respondent employ experienced persons in
its stores and compliance with the arbitrary demands of
defendants would involve the discharge of white employes
and their replacement with colored; it is imperative that
respondent be free in the selection and control of persons
employed by it without interference by the petitioners

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Curl.

302) U.S.

or others; petitioners have written respondent letters
threatening boycott and ruination of its business and
notices that by means of announcements, meetings and
advertising the petitioners will circulate statements that
respondent is unfair to colored people and to the colored
race and, contrary to fact, that respondent does not employ colored persons; respondent has not acceded to these
demian(ds. The answer admits the respondent has not acceded to the petitioners' demands, but denies the other
allegations and states that the Alliance and its agents
.have requested only that respondent, in the regular course
of personnel changes in its retail stores, give employment
lo Negroes as clerks, particularly in stores patronized
largely by colored people; that the petitioners have not
requested the discharge of white employes nor sought
action which would involve their discharge. It denies
the making of the threats described and alleges the only
representations threatened by the Alliance or its authorized agents are true representations that named stores of
the respondent do not employ Negroes as sales persons
and that the petitioners have threatened no more than
the use of lawful and peaceable persuasion of members
of the community to withhold patronage from particular
stores after the respondent's refusal to acknowledge petitioner's requests that it adopt a policy of employing Negro
clerks in such stores in the regular course of personnel
changes.
The bill further alleges that the petitioners and their
authorized representatives "have unlawfully conspired
with each other to picket, patrol, boycott, and ruin the
Plaintiff's business in said stores, and particularly in the
store located at 1936 Eleventh Street, Northwest" and,
"in an effort to fulfill their threats of coercion and intimidation, actually have caused the said store to be picketed
or patrolled during hours of business of the plaintiff, by
their members, representatives, officers, agents, servants,

NEW NEGRO ALLIANCE v. GROCERY CO.
552

557

Opinion of the Court.

and employees"; the pickets carrying large placards charging respondent with being unfair to Negroes and reading: "Do your Part! Buy Where You Can Work! No
Negroes Employed Here!" for the purpose of intimidating
and coercing prospective customers from entering the
respondent's store until the respondent accedes to the
petitioners' demands. "Said defendants, their pickets or
patrols or some of them have jostled and collided with
persons in front of the said store and have physically
hindered, obstructed, interfered with, delayed, molested,
and harassed persons desiring to enter the place of business of the Plaintiff Corporation; said pickets, or some of
them, have attempted to dissuade and prevent persons
from entering plaintiff's place of business; said defendants, their pickets or patrols are disorderly while picketing or patrolling, and attract crowds to gather in front
of said store, and encourage the crowds or members
thereof to become disorderly, and to harass, and otherwise annoy, interfere with and attempt to dissuade, and
to prevent persons from entering the place of business
-of the plaintiff, the disorder thereby preventing the proper
conduct of and operation of the plaintiff's business. Defendants have threatened to use similar tactics of picketing and patrolling as aforesaid in front of the several
other stores of the plaintiff." Four photographs alleged
to portray the picketing are annexed as exhibits to the
bill. One of them shows a man carrying a sandwich
placard on the sidewalk and no one else within the range
of the camera. In another, two children are seen beside
the picket; in another, two adults; in the fourth, one adult
entering respondent's store at a distance from the picket
and without apparent interference. The answer denies
all these allegations save that it admits the petitioners
did, during April 4, 1936, and at no other time, cause the
store at 1936 Eleventh Street, N. W., to be continuously
picketed by a single person carrying a placard exhibiting

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

the words quoted by the bill; and the petitioners, prior
to the acts complained of in the bill, picketed, or expressed the intention of picketing, two other stores. It
admits that the photographs correctly represent the picketing of April 4, 1936. The answer avers the information
carried on the placards was true, was not intended to,
and did not in fact, intimidate customers; there' was no
physical obstruction, interference or harassment of anyone
desiring to enter the store; there was no disorderly conduct, and the picketing did not cause or encourage crowds
to gather in front of the store.
The bill states: "As evidence of the widespread and
concerted action planned by the Defendants herein, they
have caused to be placed or have permitted to appear in the Washington Tribune . . . the following
statements . . ." There follow quotations from articles
appearing in the newspaper purporting to report meeings
of the Alliance and speeches made thereat. There is no
statement that the facts reported in the articles are true.
The answer denies that any of the petitioners is connected with or exercises any control over the Washington
Tribune or caused or permitted that newspaper to publish
any article or news item .whatsoever or in any way acted
in concert with the newspaper in those publications.
The bill asserts that petitioners and their representatives, officers, and agents, unlawfully conspired to picket,
boycott, and ruin the respondent's business in its stores,
particularly the store at 1936 Eleventh Street. This is
denied by the answer.
The bill says that the described conduct of petitioners
will continue until respondent complies with petitioners'
demands; is and will continue to be dangerous to the life
and health of persons on the highway, to property thereon,
and to respondent's employes, its property, and business
and will cause respondent irreparable injury; the petitioners' acts are unlawful, constitute a conspiracy in

NEW NEGRO ALLIANCE v. GROCERY CO.
552

559

Opinion of the Court.

restraint of trade, and, if continued, will ruin the respondent's business. The answer denies these allegations so far
as they constitute assertions of fact.
The case, then, as it stood for judgment, was this: The
petitioners requested the respondent to adopt a policy of
employing Negro clerks in certain of its stores in the course
of personnel changes; the respondent ignored the request
and the petitioners caused one person to patrol in front
of one of the respondent's stores on one day carrying a
placard which said: "Do Your Part! Buy Where You
Can Work! No Negroes Employed Here!" and caused
or threatened a similar patrol of two other stores of
respondent. The information borne by the placard was
true. The patrolling did not coerce or intimidate respondent's customers; did not physically obstruct, interfere
with, or harass persons desiring to enter the store, the
picket acted in an orderly manner, and his conduct did
not cause crowds to gather in front of the store.
The trial judge was of the view that the laws relating
to labor disputes had no application to the case. He
entered a decree enjoining the petitioners and their agents
and employes from picketing or patrolling any of the
respondent's stores, boycotting or urging others to boycott
respondent; restraining them, whether by inducements,
threats, intimidation or actual or threatened physical force
from hindering any person entering respondent's places
of business, from destroying or damaging or threatening
to destroy or damage respondent's property and from
aiding or abetting others in doing any of the prohibited
things. The Court of Appeals thought that the dispute
was not a labor dispute within the Norris-LaGuardia Act
because it did not involve terms and conditions of einployment such as wages, hours, unionization or betterment of working conditions, and that the trial court, therefore, had jurisdiction to issue the injunction. We think
the conclusion that the dispute was not a labor dispute

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Cuurt.

303 U. S.

within the meaning of the Act, because it did not involve
terms and conditions of employment in the sense of wages,
hours, unionization or betterment of working conditions
is erroneous.
Subsection (a) of § 13 provides: "A case shall be held
to involve or to grow out of a labor dispute when the case
involves persons who are engaged in the same industry,
trade, craft, or occupation; or have direct or indirect interests therein; . . . or when the case involves any conflicting or competing interests in a 'labor dispute' (as
hereinafter defined) of 'persons participating or interested'
therein (as hereinafter defined)." Subsection (b) characterizes a person or association as participating or interested in a labor dispute "if relief is sought against him
or it and if he or it . . . has a direct or indirect interest
therein, . . ." Subsection (c) defines the term "labor
dispute" as including "any controversy concerning terms
or conditions of employment, . . . regardless of whether
or not the disputants stand in the proximate relation of
employer and employee." These definitions plainly embrace the controversy which gave rise to the instant suit
and classify it as one arising out of a dispute defined as
a labor dispute. They leave no doubt that The New
Negro Alliance and the individual petitioners are, in contemplation of the Act, persons interested in the dispute."
In quoting the clauses of § 13 we have omitted those
that deal with disputes between employers and employes and disputes between associations of persons engaged in a particular trade or craft, and employers in
the same industry. It is to be noted, however, that the
inclusion in the definitions of such disputes, and the persons interested in them, serves to emphasize the fact that
the quoted portiotis were intended to embrace contro' Compare S cm v. Tile Lcaiei's Unlioi, 301 U. S. 468; L uf v.
,lt;imer & Co.. 302 I. S. :123.

NEW NEGRO ALLIANCE v. GROCERY CO.
552

561

Opinion of the Court..

versies other than those between employers and employes; between labor unions seeking to represent employes and employers; and between persons seeking
employment and employers.
The Act does not concern itself with the background
or the motives of the dispute. The desire for fair and
equitable conditions of employment on the part of persons of any race, color, or persuasion, and the removal
of discriminations against them by reason of their race
or religious beliefs is quite as important to those concerned as fairness and equity in terms and conditions
of employment, can be to trade or craft unions or any
form of labor organization or association. Race discrimination by an employer may reasonably be deemed
more unfair and less excusable than discrimination
against workers on the ground of union affiliation. There
is no justification in the apparent purposes or the express terms of the Act for limiting its definition of labor
disputes and cases arising therefrom by excluding those
which arise with respect to discrimination in terms and
conditions of employment based upon differences of race
or color.
The purpose and policy of the Act respecting the jurisdiction of the federal courts is set forth in §§ 4 and 7.
The former deprives those courts of jurisdiction to issue
an injunction against, inter alia, giving publicity to the
existence of, or the facts involved in, any labor dispute,
whether by advertising, speaking, patrolling, or by any
other method not involving fraud or violence; against assemnbling peaceably to act or to organize to act in promotion of interests in a labor dispute; against advising
or notifying any person of an intention to do any of the
acts specified; against agreeing with other persons to
do( any of the aets specified.' Section 7 deprives the
' L'.
S. C.'Fit.
21, § 104.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

courts of jurisdiction to issue an injunction in any case
involving or growing out of a labor dispute, except after
hearing sworn testimony in open court in support of
the allegations of the complaint, and upon findings of fact
to the effect (a) that unlawful acts have been threatened and will be committed unless restrained, or have
been committed and will be continued, unless restrained,
and then only against the person or persons, association
or organization making the threat or permitting the unlawful act or authorizing or ratifying it; (b) that substantial and irreparable injury to complainant's property will follow; (c) that, as to each item of relief
granted, greater injury will be inflicted upon the complainant by denial of the relief than will be inflicted on the
defendant by granting it; (d) that complainant has no
adequate remedy at law, and (e) that the public officers
charged with the duty to protect complainant's property
are unable or unwilling to furnish adequate protection.'
The legislative history of the Act demonstrates that it
was the purpose of the Congress further to extend the
prohibitions of the Clayton Act respecting the exercise
of jurisdiction by federal courts and to obviate the results of the judicial construction of that Act.' It was
intended that peaceful and orderly dissemination of information by those defined as persons interested in a
labor dispute concerning "terms and conditions of employment" in an industry or a pf.mit or a place of business should be lawful; that, short o fraud, breach of the
U. S. C. Tit. 29, § 107.
'Act of Oct. 15, 1914, c. 323, § 20, 38 Stat. 730, 738, U. S. C. Tit.
29, § 52.
'Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443; American
Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Central Trades Council, 257 U. S. 184.
Compare House Report No. 669, 72nd Cong., 1st Sess., and Senate
Report 1060, 71st Cong., 2nd Sess., and Senate Report 163, 72nd Cong.,
1st Sess.
6

NEW NEGRO ALLIANCE v. GROCERY CO.
552

563

MNIEYNOLDS, ,1., dissenting.

peace, violence, or conduct otherwise unlawful, those having a direct or indirect interest in such terms and conditions of employment should be at liberty to advertise and
disseminate facts and information with respect to terms
and conditions of employment, and peacefully to persuade others to concur in their views respecting an employer's practices.' The District Court erred in not complying with the provisions of the Act.
The decree must be reversed and the cause remanded
to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
M . JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, dissenting.

and I cannot accept the view
that a "labor dispute" emerges whenever an employer
fails to respond to a communication from A, B and Cirrespective of their race, character, reputation, fitness,
previous or present employment-suggesting displeasure
because of his choice of employes and their expectation
that in the future he will not fail to select men of their
complexion.
It seems unbelievable that, in all such circumstances,
Congress intended to inhibit courts from extending protection long guaranteed by law and thus, in effect, encourage mobbish interference with the individual's liberty of
action. Under the tortured meaning now attributed to
the words "labor dispute," no employer-merchant, manufacturer, builder, cobbler, housekeeper or what not-who
MR. JUSTICE B U'rLER

Compare Senn v. Tile Layers Union, 301 U. S. 468; Levering &
Garrigues Co. v. Morrin, 71 F. (2d) 284; Cinderella Theatre Co. v.
Sign Writers' Local, 6 F. Supp. 164; Miller Furniture Co. v. Furniture
Workers Union, 8 F. Supp. 209.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

303 U. S.

prefers helpers of one color or class can find adequate safeguard against intolerable violations of his freedom if
members of some other class, religion, race or color demand that he give them precedence.*
Design thus to promote strife, encourage trespass and
stimulate intimidation, ought not to be admitted where,
as here, not plainly avowed. The ultimate result of the
view now approved to the very people whom present petitioners claim to represent, it may be, is prefigured by the
grievous plight of minorities in lands where the law has
become a mere political instrument.

UNITE) STATES v. HENDLER, TRANSFEREE.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT
FOURTH

No. 563.

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued March 9, 193.-I)ecided March 28, 1938.

A gain resulting to a corporation from the assumption and payment
of its bonded indebtedness by another corporation, with which it
merged, held not exempt from income tax under Revenue Act of
1928, § 112. P. 567.
91 F. 2d 680, reversed.
CEETIORARI, 302 U. S. 680, to review the affirmance of
a judgment in favor of the taxpayer, 17 F. Supp. 558,
in a suit to recover an alleged overpayment of income
taxes.

Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Acting Solicitor
General Bell, Assistant Attorney General Morris and
Mr. Arnold Raum were on the brief, for the United
States.
* See-definition of Dispute, Webster's New International Dictionary; 29 U. S. C., § 113 (c); Senate Report No. 163, 72nd Congress,
1st Session, pp. 7, 11, 25; House Report No. 669, 72nd Congress, 1st
Session, pp. 3, 7, 8, 10, 11.

