20

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

ATKINSON

ET AL.

303 U. S.

v. STATE TAX COMMISSION OF

OREGON

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OREGON.

No. 303.

Argued January 13, 1938.-Decided January 31, 1938.

Oregon applied its personal income tax law to the net income derived
by individuals from their work, within the boundaries of the
State, in the construction of the Bonneville Dam on the Columbia River, a navigable stream, under a contract with the United
States. The work was performed partly in the bed of the river
and partly on other land purchased by the United States. Held
valid.
1. The tax did not burden the operations of the Federal Government. P. 21.
2. Subject to the paramount authority of the Federal Government to have the work performed for purposes within the
federal province, the State retained its title and territorial jurisdiction over the river bed. P. 22.
3. With like restriction, the State retained its territorial jurisdiction over the land purchased, notwithstanding a general law
of Oregon consenting to purchase of land by the United States for
the erection of "any needful buildings" and purporting to cede
exclusive jurisdiction over the same; since the Federal Government
need not accept such jurisdiction when tendered and in this instance the facts show that it intended otherwise. P. 23.
4. The tax involved no interference with the carrying out of
the federal project. P. 25.
156 Ore. 461; 67 P. (2d) 161, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Oregon sustaining a tax.

Mr. Howard P. Arnest for appellants.
Mr. Carl E. Davidson, Assistant Attorney General,
with whom Mr. I. H. Van Winkel, Attorney General, of
Oregon, was on the brief, for appellees.

ATKINSON v. TAX COMM'N.
20

Opinion of the Court.

By leave of Court, Attorney General Cummings, Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris,
and Messrs. Sewall Key and Arnold Raum filed a brief
on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, in support of appellees.
PER CURIAM.

This case presents the question of the validity of the
personal income tax law of Oregon (Oregon Code 1930,
c. XV, Title LXIX, §§ 69-1501 to 69-1538, as amended
by Laws of 1933, c. 322 and 387 and by laws of 1933, Second Special Session, c. 31) as applied to the net income
of the appellants derived from their work within the exterior limits of the State in the construction of the Bonneville Dam on the Columbia River under a contract
with the United States. The contract was made in February, 1934, and the work was completed in that year.
The tax was assailed upon the grounds (1) that it burdened the operations of the Federal Government and (2)
that the area within which the work was done was within
the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States. The Supreme Court of the State sustained the tax, 156 Ore. 461;
62 P. (2d) 13, 67 P. (2d) 161, and the contractors appeal.
With respect to the contention that the state law lays
an unconstitutional burden upon the Federal Government, the case is controlled by our previous decisions.
Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514; General Conctruction Co. v. Fisher, 295 U. S. 715; James v. Dravo
Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134; Silas Mason Co. v. Tax
Commission, 302 U. S. 186. In the two cases last mentioned the tax which was upheld was upon the gross income of the contractors. In Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell,
supra, and General Construction Co. v. Fisher,supra, the
tax was upon the net income.
As to territorial jurisdiction, it appears that the area
within the boundaries of Oregon in which the work was

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

performed embraced (a) the bed of the Columbia River,
where the main structural works are placed, and (b)
Bradford island and a portion of the mainland.
The United States did not acquire title to the bed of
the river. Upon this point the state court said (pp.
481-482):
"Section 60-1302, Oregon Code 1930 (Laws 1874, p.
10), grants to the governor of Oregon authority and
power to convey to the United States title to land belonging to the state and covered by the waters of the United
States, not exceeding ten acres in any one tract, as the
site of a lighthouse, beacon or other aid to navigation,
upon application made to him by a duly authorized agent
of the United States, and further grants him authority
'to cede to the said United States jurisdiction over the
same,' reserving, however, to the state the right to serve
thereon civil or criminal process issuing under authority
of the state. No application has been made to the governor of this state or to the legislature for conveyance
of any part of the bed of either the north or south channel of the Columbia river within the project, or for cession
to the federal government of jurisdiction over the
same. ...
"No authority has been called to our attention to the
effect that the state of Oregon has in any way relinquished
its sovereignty over the area occupied by the waters of
Bradford slough and that part of the north channel of the
Columbia river which is within the territorial limits of
the state."
The case in this relation falls within the principle of
our decision in James v. Dravo Contracting Co., supra.
The question, we there said, was not one of the paramount
authority of the Federal Government to have the work
performed for purposes within the federal province. The
title to the bed of the river was in the State. And,
although subject to the dominant right of the Federal

ATKINSON v. TAX COMM'N.
20

Opinion of the Court.

Government, the servient title continued in the State
which thus retained its territorial jurisdiction for purposes not inconsistent with the exercise by the Federal
Government of its constitutional functions. See, also,
Silas Mason Co. v. Tax Commission, supra.
The remaining question concerns the lands on Bradford
island and the mainland which were purchased by the
United States. Appellants rely upon the Oregon statute
giving consent to the United States to purchase or otherwise acquire any land within the State "for the purpose
of erecting thereon any needful public buildings" under
authority of any act of Congress, and providing that the
United States should have "the right of exclusive jurisdiction over the same," saving the authority of the State
for the service of process. Oregon Code, 1930, § 60-1303.
In Silas Mason Co. v. Tax Commission, supra, we said
that as a transfer of exclusive jurisdiction rests upon a
grant by the State, it follows, in accordance with familiar
principles applicable to grants, that the grant may be accepted or declined. Acceptance may be presumed in
the absence of evidence of a contrary intent. But we
found no constitutional principle "which compels acceptance by the United States of an exclusive jurisdiction
contrary to its own conception of its interests." The
mere fact that the Government needs title to property
within the boundaries of a State "does not necessitate
the assumption by the Government of the burdens incident to an exclusive jurisdiction."
In this instance, the state court took the view that the
Federal Government had not accepted and did not intend to exercise exclusive legislative authority over the
lands which had been purchased for this project. The
court said:
"The mere fact that there may be on the statute books
of the state a general law, such as § 60-1303, Oregon
Code 1930, consenting to the purchase of land by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

United States and granting to the national government
the right to exercise exclusive jurisdiction thereover, does
not imply that over all lands purchased by the national
government in the state after the enactment of such law
the state is divested ipso facto of sovereignty, and exclusive control over the acquired area is assumed by the federal government. In the instant case there is nothing to
indicate that the federal government desires to exercise
exclusive legislative jurisdiction over the land purchased
by it within the Bonneville project. It would be somewhat inconsistent to assume that since it does not have
such jurisdiction over the major part of the structures
which are now being built, the federal government is
seeking to exercise exclusive jurisdiction over that part
of the works located on lands title to which it has
acquired.
"The record discloses that the government officials in
charge of the construction work required the contractors
to come under the provisions of the workmen's compensation law of the state in which the work was to be performed. At the time the contract with the plaintiffs was
entered into at least two states had held that their workmen's compensation laws were not effective on territory
over which the federal government had exclusive jurisdiction: Willis v. Oscar Daniels Co., 200 Mich. 30 (166
N. W. 496); Murray v. Joe Gerrick & Co., 172 Wash. 365
(20 P. (2d) 591). On February 5, 1934, the Supreme
Court of the United States affirmed the latter case. See
291 U. S. 315.
"The contract between the plaintiffs and the federal
government was dated February 6, 1934. In view of
those decisions it is reasonable to assume that the officials
in charge of construction of the Bonneville dam on behalf
of the federal government understood that the land included in the project was not under the exclusive legislative jurisdiction of the United States. Otherwise they

ATKINSON v. TAX COMM'N.
20

Opinion of the Court.

would not have required contractors to provide state
workmen's compensation."
The contract between the Government and appellants
is not in evidence but the record discloses, as stated by
the state court, that the Government did not seek to
exclude the State from all legislative authority, an exclusion which, would have followed from an acceptance
of a grant of "exclusive jurisdiction" with the sole reservation of the right to serve process. The enforcement
and administration of the Oregon compensation law (see
Oregon Code 1930, §§ 49-1801 to 49-1845), with which
the contractors were required to comply, were inconpatible with the existence of exclusive legislative authority in the United States.' If, however, exclusive jurisdiction, although offered, was not accepted by the United
States, there is no warrant for the conclusion that the
State did not retain its territorial jurisdiction over the
area in question so far as its exercise involved no interference with the carrying out of the federal project. And
as we have decided, that there is no such interference
through the enforcement of a tax such as is here assailed,
we find no ground for overruling the decision of the state
court.
The judgment. is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.
'The purchases of the lands, here involved, were made by the
Government,, and the contract with the appellants was made and
performed, prior to the enactment of the Act of Congress of June
25, 1936, 49 Stat. 1938, and we express no opinion as to the effect
of that Act in relation to lands as to which exclusive jurisdiction had

previously been granted to and accepted by the United States.

