REINECKE v. GARDNER.
229

Syllabus.

Sec. 21, may be punished in conformity to the prevailing
usages at law and in equity.

It is plain, we think, that this specific exception in Sec.
24, applies to Sec. 25 relating to the period of limitations
as well as to the other sectiois, and hence that the one
year limitation prescribed by Sec. 25 has no application
to the proceeding in the present case, which was brought
for the disobedience of a decree entered in a suit brought
and prosecuted in the name and on behalf of the United
States.

We find nothing in the legislative history of the Act
which indicates any different intention on the part of the
Congress.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE did not sit in this case.

REINECKE, COLLECTOR, v. GARDNER, TRUSTEE.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT. OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 471.

Argued April 17, 18, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.

1. A trustee in bankruptcy of a domestic corporation was not subject,
under the Revenue Act of 1917, to an excess-profits tax on profits
earned in his operation of the bankrupt's business which would have
been so taxable if earned by the corporation. P. 242.
2. The classes subject to the excess-profits tax imposed by Title II,
Revenue Act of 1917, were not enlarged by § 212 of that Title,
which made administrative provisions of the Act of 1916 applicable
in the collection of the tax. P. 244.
3. Under the Revenue Act of 1916, and Treasury Regulations, a taxpayer was obliged to make all deductions from gross income as of
the year when the payments were made, unless he kept his books
on an accrual basis which accurately reflected his income, and
actually made his return on that basis. Id.
4. A question propounded under Jud. Code § 239, need not be
answered if the facts pertinent to it have not been certified. P. 245.

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

RESPONSE to questions certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals relative to a claim for additional income and
excess-profits taxes filed by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue in a bankruptcy proceeding and approved by
the District Court.

Assistant Attorney General Mabel Walker Willebrandt,
with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Messrs. Sewall
Key and J. Louis Monarch, Attorneys in the Department
of Justice, were on the brief, for Reinecke, Collector.
Mr. Albert L. Hopkins, with whom Messrs. Clarence J.
Silber and Jay C. Halls were on the brief, for Gardner,
Trustee.
MR. JUsTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
In this case, pending in the Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit, that court has certified to this questions
of law concerning which it asks instructions for the proper
disposal of the cause. Jud. Code, § 239. The certificate
states that the appellee, trustee in bankruptcy of a coal
mining corporation, acting under order of the bankruptcy
court, carried on the business of the bankrupt, using for
that purpose its entire property. From October 3, 1913,
the date of the adjudication, until about January 1, 1917,
the business was conducted at a loss, but in 1917 and
1918 there were substantial profits. In 1917 the bankruptcy court, on the application of holders of bonds secured by trust deeds of all the bankrupt's property, ordered the payment of the bond interest maturing in 1916,
the profits of the business for 1916 exceeding the interest
maturing in that year. The trustee kept his books on the
accrual basis and the interest coming due in 1916 was
shown on the books as then kept. The trustee deducted
from gross income of that year the bond interest which
matured in 1916 and was paid in 1917. The Commis-

REINECKE v. GARDNER.
239

Opinion of the Court.

sioner of Internal Revenue disallowed the deduction and
filed in the bankruptcy court a claim for the additional
income and the excess profits tax due for 1917, on the
ground the interest maturing on the bonds in 1916 had
been improperly deducted from 1917 profits. The questions certified are as follows:
Question 1 Is a trustee in bankruptcy, operating
under order of the bankruptcy court the business of a
bankrupt domestic corporation in the year 1917, and
realizing net profits from the operation, subject to the
excess profits tax imposed by the revenue act of 1917, in
a case where the corporation, if itself conducting the
business, would, under the act, have been subject to such
tax?
Question 2. Under the above stated facts is the trustee in bankruptcy, in computing income and excess profits
taxes for the year 1917, entitled to deduct from the gross
income of 1917 the bond interest maturing in 1916, and
paid in 1917 out of profits of his operation in 1917 of the
bankrupt's business?
As under the bankruptcy act the entire property of the
bankrupt vested in the trustee, the income in question
was not the income of the bankrupt corporation, but of
the trustee and was subject to income and excess profits
tax only if the statutes authorized the assessment of the
tax against him. The Revenue Act of 1916, c. 463, 39
Stat. 756, and the War Revenue Act of 1917, c. 63, 40
Stat. 300; imposed income and excess profits taxes on individuals, partnerships and corporations, but neither in
terms mentioned trustees in bankruptcy as taxable persons. But § 13(c) of the Act of 1916 required trustees in
bankruptcy of corporations subject to the income tax to
make returns of net income, and provided that " any income tax due on the basis of such returns . . . shall be
assessed and collected in the same manner as if assessed
directly against the" corporation. This section, as
5963°-29-16

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1027.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

appellee concedes, by its terms extends the tax imposed
by § 10 of the Act of 1916 to income received by trustees
in bankruptcy of corporations. See United States v. Chicago & Eastern Ill. Ry., 298 Fed. 779.
In the next year § 4 of Title I of the Act of 1917 imposed an income tax of 4% "in addition to the tax imposed" by § 10 of the Act of 1916 as then amended on the
same subjects taxed by § 10, and provided that "the tax
imposed by this section shall be computed, levied, assessed, collected, and paid upon the same incomes and in
the same manner as the tax" imposed by § 10. The respondent was thus subjected to the additional income tax
of the later act.
The case is different with respect to the excess profits
tax. That tax was imposed by Title II of the Act of 1917
on corporations, partnerships and individuals engaged in
trade or business. The Title made no mention of executors, receivers, trustees or persons acting in a fiduciary
capacity, and contained no language corresponding to the
quoted provision of Title I, § 4, extending te additional income tax to "the same incomes" taxed by § 10
of the Act of 1916. A tax imposed on corporations alone
does not extend to a trustee in bankruptcy of a corporation. See United States v. Whitridge, 231 U. S. 144;
Scott v. Western- Pacific Ry., 246 Fed. 545; compare
Smietanka v. First Trust & Savings Bank, 257 U. S. 602.
In support of the assessment of an excess profits tax the
collector relies on the general language of § 212 of Title
II, printed in the margin 1,providing in substance that all
'Sec. 212. That all administrative, special, and general provisions
of law, including the laws in relation to the assessment, remission, collection, and refund of internal-revenue taxes not heretofore specifically
repealed, and not inconsistent with the provisions of this title are
hereby extended and made applicable to all the provisions of this title
and to the tax herein imposed, and -all provisions of Title I of such

REINECKE v. GARDNER.
239

243

Opinion of the Court.

the administrative provisions of the Act of 1916 not inconsistent with Title II are made applicable to it, and
argues that the provisions of § 13(c) of the Act of 1916,
requiring the trustee in bankruptcy of a corporation to
file a return and subjecting to tax the income thus disclosed are incorporated in the Act of 1917 by reference
and extended to the excess profits taxes imposed by
that act.
It is to be noted that § 212 purports to take over from
the earlier acts administrative provisions only. Its last
clause, adopting the provision of Title I of the 1916 Act
"relating to returns and payment of the tax," refers to
the administrative provisions of the earlier act fixing the
time and manner of making returns and payment of the
tax and not to the classes of income to be assessed. In
this connection the omission from § 212 of any clause corresponding to the assessment provisions of Title I, by
which the additional income tax was imposed on the
"same incomes" taxed by the earlier act, is significait.
If the requirement in § 13(c) that trustees shall make returns be considered an administrative provision, certainly
tax due on the basis of
the added clause "any . .
such returns shall be assessed and collected" is more than
administrative and actually imposes a tax. As such it
is not incorporated in the later act by the reference in,
§ 212. Thus the later actis without any provision subjecting one in the position of appellee to the excess profits
tax.
The apparent purpose of § 212 was to take over from
the earlier act those applicable administrative provisions
which would aid in the collection of the new tax imposed
Act of September eighth, nineteen hundred and sixteen, as amended
by this Act, relating to returns and payment of the tax therein imposed, including penalties, are hereby made applicable to the tax

imposed by this title.

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277U. S.

by Title II and not to extend it to classes of persons or
subjects not mentioned in the Title. Various reasons
may be urged why Congress may not have intended to
extend the excess profits tax to trustees in bankruptcy.
But whatever purpose Congress may have had, we think
the language of § 212 falls short of indicating any intention to enlarge the classes of taxpayers mentioned in Title
II. The extension of a tax by implication is not favored.
United States v. Whitridge, supra; Smietanka v. First
Trust & Savings Bank, supra.
The Treasury Department itself has held that testamentary trustees and trustees of estates in process of distribution, notwithstanding the. administrative provisions
of the 1916 Act requiring them to make returns for income
tax purposes, are not taxable for excess -profits. L. 0.
1100, 1-2 C. B. 230; S. M. 2384, 111-2 C. B. 330.
The first question is answered "No."
As the trustee in bankruptcy was subject to an income
tax under the Act of 1916 an answer to the second question is not made unnecessary by our answer to the first.
The second was, we assume, intended to present the question whether the deduction of interest accrued and payable in 1916, but actually paid in 1917, was required to
be made from 1916 income because the taxpayer kept his
books on the accrual basis. We are unable to answer the
question for the reason that the certificate omits to state
facts essential to its determination. The applicable section, 13(d) of the Act of 1916, directs that if the taxpayer
keeps his books on any basis other than that of actual
receipts and disbursements, and the return is made on the
basis adopted, the tax shall be computed on that basis
unless the books clearly do not reflect the taxpayer's true
income. In United States v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 422, it
was pointed out that under the Act of 1916 and applicable treasury regulations, the taxpayer must make all
deductions from gross income as of the year when the pay-

HOLLAND FUR. CO. v. PERKINS GLUE CO. 245
239

Syllabus.

ments were made unless he keeps his books on an accrual
basis which accurately reflects his income, and actually,
made his return on that basis. See' United States v.
Mitchell, 271 U. S. 9; American National Co. v. United
States, 274 U. S. 99. The present certificate fails to state
whether the books of the trustee as kept reflected his income or whether his return was made on the accrual basis
or on the basis of actual receipts and disbursements. Under Jud. Code § 239 the facts pertinent to the question
asked must be certified. When they are omitted from
the certificate the question need not be answered. Dillon v. StrathearnS. S. Co., 248 U. S. 182.
Question No. 1. Answered, No.
Question No. 2. Not answered.
HOLLAND FURNITURE COMPANY v. PERKINS
GLUE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO-THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 285.

Argued March 14, 15, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.

1. The narrowing by disclaimer of the process claims of a patent
does not necessarily narrow the product claims. P. 254.
2. A patentable process is a method of treatment of certain materials to produce a particular result or proluct. The description
of the process does not necessarily embrace the product. Either
or both may be patentable. P. 255.
3. If the choice or designation of an essential ingredient of a composition of matter may be called a process, the process is one
inseparable from the composition itself; the description of one
necessarily limits the other; and the patent of the product cannot
extend beyond a product having the designated ingredient. Id.
4. A patent for a composition of matter should contain some description of the ingredients entering into the composition which
will both define the invention and carry it beyond the previous
development of the art. P. 254.

