OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

277 U. S.

PANHANDLE OIL COMPANY v. MISSISSIPPI Ex
EEL. KNOX, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 288. Argued March 5, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
1. A state tax imposed on dealers in gasoline for the privilege of selling, and measured at so many cents per gallon of gasoline sold, is
void under the Federal Constitution as applied to sales to instrumentalities of the United States, such as the Coast Guard Fleet and
a Veterans' Hospital. P. 222.
2. The substance and legal effect is to tax the sale, and thus burden
and tax the United States, exacting tribute on its transactions for
the ,support of the State. Id.
3. Such on exaction infringes the right of the dealer to have the constitutional independence of the United States in respect of such
purchases remain untrammeled. Id.
147 Miss. 663, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi, sustaining a suit brought by the State of Mississippi
to recover taxes assessed on sales of gasoline made by the
defendant, plaintiff in error.

Mr. George Butler for plaintiff in error.
The Acts in question, as construed, are void in that
they impose a direct burden and tax upon the activities
and instrumentalities of the Federal Government. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Dobbins v. Erie
County, 16 Pet. 435; Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 138;
Ohio v. Thomas, 173 U. S. 276; Johnson v. Maryland,
254 U. S. 51; Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501; Metcalf v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514; Crandll v. Nevada, 6
Wall. 35; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Western
Union v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Western Union v. Texas,
105 U. S. 460; Philadelphia,etc., Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Galveston, etc.,,R. R. Co. v.
Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Standard Oil Co. v. Graves, 249

PANHANDLE OIL CO. v. KNOX.
218

Argument for Defendant in Error.

U. S. 389; Askren v. Continental Oil Co., 252 U. S. 444;
Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642; Indian
Territory Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522; Wagner
v. Covington, 251 U. S. 95; St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 230; Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Pennsylvania, 240 U. S. 319.
Mr. J. L. Byrd, Assistant Attorney General of Mississippi, with whom Mr. Rush H. Knox, Attorney General, was on the brief, for defendant in error.
The mere fact that a private individual does business
with an instrumentality of the Federal Government, does
not clothe him with immunity from taxation which is
given to the Federal Government and its instrumentalities; and the fact that such a person is required to pay
the tax for engaging in business does not and cannot
hamper or burden any instrumentality of the Federal
Government. Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Pennsylvania,
240 U. S. 319; Baltimore Ship Bldg. Co. v. Mayor of Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375; Choctaw, 0. & G. R. R. Co. v.
Mackey, 256 U. S. 531; Gromer v. StandardDredging Co.,
224 U. S. 362; Metcalf v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514.
It is admitted by the demurrer, that the tax was not
collected from the United States Government. Therefore,
we say if the collection of the tax from the Government,
or the collection of an amount f6r the gasoline sufficient
to include the tax, would be void, we do not have that
question here for the reason that the Government has not
paid any tax and the State is not demanding a tax from
the Government, but is demanding a tax from the distributor or dealer in gasoline for the right to engage in the
business.
Plaintiff in error has no right to raise the question.
No pretense is made that it is a part of the United States
Government or an instrumentality of the Government.
Therefore, the question as to whether or not the Govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1027.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

ment will pay an amount sufficient to yield a reasonable
profit plus the tax, is a matter of private contract, and it
is not mandatory on the Government to purchase this
gasoline at a stipulated price, but it can drive any bargain
it desires, and neither is it mandatory on the plaintiff in
error to sell to the Government with the tax added or
without the tax added, it all being a matter of contract.
A person who would strike down a state statute as being
violative of the Federal Constitution, must show that he
is within the class of persons with respect to whom the
Act is unconstitutional, and that the alleged unconstitutional feature injures him. Heald, Executor, v. District
of Columbia, 254 U. S. 20.
MR. JusTicE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Chapter 116 of the Laws of Mississippi of 1922 provided
that "any person engaged in the business of distributing
gasoline, or retail dealer in gasoline, shall pay for the
privilege of engaging in such business an excise tax of 10
[one cent] per gallon upon the sale of gasoline
except that sold in interstate commerce or purchased outside the State and brought in by the consumer for his
own use. Chapter 115, Laws of 1924, increased the tax
to three cents and c. 119, Laws of 1926, made it four
cents per gallon. Since some time in 1925 petitioner has
been engaged in that business. The State sued to recover
taxes claimed on account of sales made by petitioner to
the United States for the use of its Coast Guard Fleet in
service in the Gulf of Mexico and its Veterans' Hospital
at Gulfport. Some of the sales were made while the Act
of 1924 was in force and some after the rate had been
increased by the Act of 1926. Accordingly the demand
was for three cents a gallon on some and four cents on
the rest. Petitioner defended on the ground that these
statutes, if construed to impose taxes on such sales, are

PANHANDLE OIL CO. v. KNOX.
218

Opinion of the Court.

repugnant to the federal Constitution. The court of first
instance sustained that contention and the State appealed. The Supreme Court held the exaction a valid
privilege tax measured by the number of gallons sold;
that it was not a tax upon instrumentalities of the federal government and that the United States was not entitled to buy such gasoline without payment of the taxes
charged dealers. 147 Miss. 663.
The United States is empowered by the Constitution to
maintain and operate the fleet and hospital. Art. I, ยง 8.
That authorization and laws enacted pursuant thereto are
supreme (Art. VI); and, in case of conflict, they control
state enactments. The States may not burden or interfere with the exertion of national power or make it a
source of revenue or take the funds raised or tax the
means used for the performance of federal functions. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 425, et seq. Dobbins
v. The Commissioners of Erie County, 16 Pet. 435, 448.
Ohio v. Thomas, 173 U. S. 276. Choctaw & Gulf R. R. v.
Harrison,235 U. S. 292. Indian Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240
U. S. 522. Johnson v. Maryland, 254 U. S. 51. Clallam
County v. United States, '263 U. S. 341, 344. Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 275 U. S. 136.
New Brunswick v. United States, 276 U. S. 547. The
strictness of that rule was emphasized in Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501, 505. The right of the United States
to make such purchases is derived from the Constitution.
The petitioner's right to make sales to the United States
was not given, by the State and does not depend on state
laws; it results from the authority of the national government under the Constitution to choose its own means and
sources of supply. While Mississippi may impose charges
upon petitioner for the privilege of carrying on trade that
is subject to the power of the State, it may not lay any
tax upon transactions by which the United States secures
the things desired for its governmental purposes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1027.
HOLMES,

BRANDEIS,

and

STONE,

JJ., dissenting.

277 U. S.

"The validity of the taxes claimed is to be determined by
the practical effect of enforcement in respect of sales to
the government. Wagner v. City of Covington, 251 U. S.
95, 102. A charge at the prescribed rate is made on account of every gallon acquired by the United States. It
is immaterial that the seller and not the purchaser is
required to report and make payment to the State. Sale
and purchase constitute a transaction by which the tax
is measured and on which the burden rests. The amount
of money claimed by the State rises and falls precisely
as does the quantity of gasoline so secured by the Government. It depends immediately upon the number of gallons. The necessary operation of these enactments when
so construed is directly to retard, impede and burden the
exertion by the United States of its constitutional powers
to operate the fleet and hospital. McCulloch v. Maryland,
supra, 436. Gillespie v. Oklahoma, supra, 505. Jaybird
Mining Co. v. Weir, 271 U. S. 609, 613. To use the number of gallons sold the United States as a measure of the
privilege tax is in substance and legal effect to tax the
sale. Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460. Frick v.
Pennsylvania,268 U. S. 473, 494. And that is to tax the
United States-to exact tribute on its transactions and
apply the same to the support of the State.
The exactions demanded from petitioner infringe its
right to have the constitutional independence of the
United States in respect of such purchases rem'ain untrammeled. Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738,
867. Telegraph Co. v. Texas, supra. Cf. Terrace v.
Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 216. Petitioner is not liable
for the taxes claimed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUsTICE HOLMES.

The State of Mississippi in 1924 and '1926 imposed
upon distributors and retail dealers of gasoline, for the

PANHANDLE OIL CO. v. KNOX.
218

HoLMEs, BRANDEIS,

and STONE, JJ., dissenting.

privilege of engaging in the business, an excise tax of
three cents and four cents respectively per gallon sold in
the State. The Supreme Court of the State declares it
to be a privilege tax but points out that whether this tax
is on the privilege or on the property it is imposed before
the gasoline has left the dealer's hands. The plaintiff
in erro, a dealer, was sued by the State for certain sums
that were due under the statutes. It pleaded that the
sales in respect of which the tax was demanded were sales
to the United States for the use of its Coast Guard and
Veterans' Hospital, that these being instrumentalities of
the government it did not include the amount of the tax
in the price charged, and that the statute did not and
could not tax the dealer for them consistently with the
Constitution of the United States. The Supreme Court
of the State upheld the tax and pointed out the extreme
consequences to which a different decision might lead.
It seems to me that the State Court was right. I should
say plainly right, but for the effect of certain dicta of
Chief Justice Marshall which culminated in or rather
were founded upon his often quoted proposition that the
power to tax is the power to destroy. In those days it
was not recognized as it is today that most of the distinctions of the law are distinctions of degree., If the
States had any power it was assumed that they had all
power, and that the necessary alternative was to deny
it altogether. But this Court which so often has defeated
the attempt to tax in certain ways can defeat an attempt
to discriminate or otherwise go too far without wholly
abolishing the power to tax.. The power to tax is not the
power to destroy while this Court sits. The power to
fix rates. is the power to destroy if unlimited, but this
Court while it endeavors to prevent confiscation does not
prevent the fixing of rates. A tax is not an unconstitutional regulation in every case where an absolute prohibition of sales would be one. Hatch v. Reardon, 204
U. S. 152, 162.

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
HOLMES, BRANDEIS,

and

STONE,

JJ., dissenting.

277 U. S.

To come down more closely to the question before us,
when the Government comes into a State to purchase I
do not.perceive why it should be entitled to stand differently from any other purchaser. It avails itself of the
machinery furnished by the State and I do not see why
it should not contribute in the same proportion that every
other purchaser contributes for the privileges thaf it uses.
It has no better or other right to use them than anyone
else. The cost of maintaining the State that makes the
business possible is just as necessary an element in the
cost of production as labor or coal. If the plaintiff in
error had paid the tax and had added it to the price, the
Government would have had nothing to say. It could
take the gasoline or leave it but it could not require the
seller to abate his charge even if it had been arbitrarily
increased in the hope of getting more from the Government than could be got from the public at large. But in
fact the Government has not attempted to say anything
in this case, which is simply that of a dealer trying to
cut down a legitimate tax on his business because certain
purchasers proposed to use the goods in a certain way,
although so far as the sale was concerned they were free
to turn the gasoline into the ocean, use it for private
purposes or sell it again. It does not appear that the
Government would have refused to pay a -price that
included the tax if demanded, but if the Government had
refused, it would not have exonerated the seller. Pierce
Oil Corporationv. Hopkins, 264 U. S. 137, 139.
An imperfect analogy with taxation that affects interstate commerce is relied upon. Even the law on that
subject has been liberalized since the decision of most of
the cases cited. Sonneborn Brothers v. Cureton, 262
U. S. 506. But obviously it does not follow from the
invalidity of a tax directly burdening interstate commerce that a tax upon a domestic seller is bad because he
may be able to shift the burden to a purchaser, even

PANHANDLE OIL CO. v. KNOX.
218

McREYNoLDs, J., dissenting.

though an agency of the Government, who is- willing to
pay the lrice with the tax and who has no rational
ground for demanding favor. I am not aware that the
President, the Members of Congress, the Judiciary or,
to come nearer to the case in hand, the Coast Guard or
the officials of the Veterans' Hospital, because they are
instrumentalities of governmeni and cannot function
naked and unfed, hitherto have 'been held entitled to
have their bills for food and clothing cut down so far as
their butchers and tailors have been taxed on -their sales;
and I had not supposed that the butchers and tailors
could omit from their tax returns all receipts from the
large class of customers to which I have referred. The
question of interference with Government, I repeat, is
one of reasonableness and degree and it seems tc me that
the interference in this case is too remote. Metcalf &
Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514.
MR. JUSTICE BRANwDEIs

and MR.

JUSTICE

STONE agree

with this opinion.
MRi. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.
I am unable to think that every man who sells a gallon
of gasoline to be used by the United States thereby becomes a federal instrumentality, with the privilege of
claiming freedom from taxation by the State.
The doctrine of immunity is well established, but it
ought not to be extended beyond the reasons which
underlie it. Its limitations were well pointed out fifty
years ago in Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5,
30, 31--" It cannot be that a State tax which remotely
affects the efficient exercise of a Federal power is for that
reason alone inhibited by the Constitution. To hold that
would be to deny to the States all power to tax persons
or property. Every tax levied by a State withdraws from
the reach of Federal taxation a portion of the property

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.

226

Statement of the Case.

277 U. S.

from which it is taken, and to that extent diminishes the
subject upon which Federal taxes may be laid. The
States are, and they must ever be, coexistent with the
National government. Neither may destroy the other.
Hence the Federal Constitution must receive a practical
construction. Its limitations and its implied prohibitions
must not be extended so far as to destroy the necessary
powers of the States, or prevent their efficient exercise."
MR. JUSTICE STONE concurs in these views.

BUZYNSKI v. LUCKENBACH STEAMSHIP COMPANY, INCORPORATED, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 534. Argued March 19, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
1. Section 33 of the Merchant Marine Act incorporated into the maritime law in favor of injured "seamen " the applicable provisions of
the Employers' Liability Act and its amendments, and these may
-be enforced either in suits in admiralty or actions at law. P. 228.
2. A stevedore engaged in stowing cargo upon a vessel, is a "seaman"
within the meaning of that section and, under applicable provisions of the Liability Act, may recover from the stevedoring company, employing him for an injury caused by the negligence of a
fellow-servant. Id.
3. Where the Circuit Court of Appeals erroneously reverses a judgment upon one question without deciding another upon which its
correctness also depends, the case may be reversed for the error
and remanded to that court for decision of the other question.
Id.
19 F. (2d) 871, reversed.

275 U. S.518, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which reversed a judgment of the District Court on a libel in admiralty for personal injuries.
CERTIORARI,

