CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BLODGETT v. SILBERMAN
SILBERMAN-ET

AL.

ET AL.

v. BLODGETT.

CERTIORARI AND ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY, CONNECTICUT.

Nos. 190 and 191. Argued March 12, 13, 1928&-Decided April 16,
1928.
1. The State of a decedent's domicile may impose a succession tax on
the transfer of his intangible property"by will or inheritance under
her laws, even though the evidences of such property be outside
of the State at the-time of his death, and-even though the transfer
be subject to taxation in another jurisdiction. Mobilia sequuntur
personam. P. 8.
2. The interest of a deceased partner in a limited partnership governed by c. 408, N. Y. Laws, 1919,' among whose assets are buildings
and land, is an interest in the surplus of assets with a right to an
accounting-a chose in action. It is intangible property subject to
succession tax in the State of his domicile., P. 10.
3. Bonds and certificates of indebtedness- of the United States, payable to bearer and transferable from hand to hand, though having
some of the qualities of physical property are nevertheless intangible property-choses in action--subject to succession tax by the
State of the deceased owner's domicile, although physically they
have been in another State ever since he- acquired them. State
Tax on Foreign-Held Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; .Frick v. Penna., 268
U. S.473, and other cases distinguished. P. 12.
4. The domiciliary State may likewise tax the successi6n to stocks
of corporations of other States, the certificates for which have

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Counsel for Parties.

277 U. S.

never been within its borders; a savings deposit in another State;
and life insurance collected there by the decedent's estate. P. 18.
5. But bank notes and coin kept by the decedent in a safe deposit
box in another State, are tangible property and not subject to
transfer tax by the State of his domicile. Id.
6. A testator, resident in Connecticut, died possessed of an interest
in a New York partnership, stocks, bonds and a bank account in New
York and a life insurance policy in a New York company. The
will, which devised most of the property to New York charities,
was probated in New York, and the estate largely settled there,
including the payment of debts and legacies and the fixation and
payment of the New York transfer and federal estate taxes. Held
that subsequent proceedings in Connecticut by which a tax was
imposed on the succession to the intangibles mentioned, did not
deny full faith and credit to the public acts, records and proceedings of New York. Id.
7. The full faith and credit clause does not make judgments binding
on those who were neither party nor privy to the proceedings in
which they were rendered. P. 19.
105 Conn. 192, affirmed in part; reversed in part.
REvIEW of a judgment of the Superior Court of Con-

necticut, levying a succession tax pursuant to the opinion
and advice of the Supreme Court of Errors, 105 Conn. 192,
on the transfer of property under the will of a resident
of the State. The executors sued out a writ of error from
this Court upon the ground that the taxing statute, as
applied, violated the Fourteenth Amendment and the
full faith and credit provision of the Constitution. The
Connecticut Tax Commission applied for a certiorari to
so much of the judgment as denied to the State, because
of the Fourteenth Amendment, the right to tax the transfer of certain securities of the United States and bank
notes and coin.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Messrs. Benjamin
W. Alling, Ftarwell Knapp, Lucius F. Robinson, and John
F. Caskey were on the brief, for Blodgett.
Messrs. Abraham L. Gutman and Kenneth Dayton for
Silberman et al.

BLODGETT v. SILBERMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Seth T. Cole for the Tax Commission of the State
of New York and the Commissioner of Corporations and
Taxation of Massachusetts as amii curiae, by special
leave of Court.
Messrs. Win. R. Perkins, Sol M. Stroock, ForrestHyde,
and Harry H. Shelton submitted a brief as amici curiae
on behalf of the Estate of James B. Duke, deceased, by
special leave of Court.
MR. CiEF JUSTICE

TA-r delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These two cases, which are really one, grow out of the
operation of a transfer tax by the State of Connecticut.
They are brought to this Court, one by certiorari, and one
by writ of error. The questions presented are whether
the tax on the transfer of certain parts of the large estate
of Robert B. Hirsch was in violation of the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Con-.
stitution- in that they were tangible property in New
York and not in Connecticut. Hirsch died September 23,
1924, domiciled at, Stamford, Connecticut, leaving a will
with two codicils executed in accordance with the laws
of both New York and Connecticut. The plaintiffs are
the surviving executors of the -will. Hirsch left real
estate, chattels, cattle, horses and poultry in Connecticut,
and also a debt due from a resident of Connecticut and a
certificate of stock in a Connecticut corporation, as to all
of which there is no dispute about the tax that, was imposed. The great bulk of his estate, however, consisted
of (1) a large interest, as general partner, appraised at
$1,687,245.34, in the partnership of William. Openhym &
Sons, doing business in New York, and organized under
the Limited Partnership Act of that State; (2) certificates
of stock in New York, New Jersey and Canada corporations, appraised at $277,864.25; (3) bonds and Treasury

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

certificates of indebtedness of the United States, appraised
at $615,121.17; (4) a small savings bank account in New
York; (5) a life insurance policy in the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York payable to the estate; and
(6) a small amount of bank bills and coin in a deposit
box in New York. All the bonds and certificates of stock
at the time of the decedent's death, and for a long time
prior thereto, had been physically placed and kept in safe
deposit boxes in New York City and were never in Connecticut. The partnership assets consisted of real estate
in New York and also in Connecticut, merchandise, chattels, credits, and other personal property. The testator
bequeathed the larger part of his estate to charitable and
educational corporatiois organized under the laws of New
York and existing in that State.' The executors offered
the will and codicils for probate in New York. They were
admitted to probate in the Surrogate's Court in the
County of New York, and thereafter the executors proceeded in the settlement of the estate in New York.
They have paid from the funds of the estate legacies
provided in the will and codicils amounting to $299,297.45.
They have also paid the debts, the federal estate tax and
the New York transfer or inheritance tax, which
amounted to $19,166.04. The transfer report in that
court exempted the legacies bequeathed to charitable and
educational institutions in accord with New York law.
The executors have paid to the trustees named in the will
and codicils the amount therein mentioned for the benefit
of certain persons named. The executors sold the stock
standing in the name of the decedent and made transfer
of the same to the purchaser, and the Mutual Life Insurance Company paid to the executors the proceeds of
the policy. The National City Bank of New York paid
to the executors the amount of a small deposit' account
therein to the credit of the decedent at the time of his
death.

BLODGETT' v. SILBERMAN.
Opinion. of the Court.

On January 8, 1925, the executors presented to the
Court of Probate, for the Stamford district of Connecticut,
an exemplified copy of -the will and codicils from the
record of the proceedings in the Surrogate's Court in New
York, and on January 15, 1925, that court received the
will and codicils and accepted' a bond for the executors
and issued to -them letters testamentary, made an order
limiting the time .for the presentation of claims, directed
the filing of an inventory of"all the property, including
choses in action of the estate of the decedent, and appointed appraisers who made and :filed the inventory of
all the foregoing items of property belonging to the deced~nt at the time of his death.
On-September 1, 1925, the executors filed in the Probate'
Court for the Stamford district, and with thd tax commissioner for Connecticut, a statement under oath covering the property of the estate and the claimed deductions
therefrom, all this for the purpose of determining the succession tax, if any, due the State of Connecticut. The tax
commissioner thereafter filed'a copy_,f his computation
of the tax with the Probate Court, to'which the executors
made objection, but that court on December 4, 1925, made
its order and decree approving the computation of 8188,780.58, and directed the executors to pay this amount to
the State Treasurer.
From this order the plaintiff, executors took an appeal
to the Superior, Court of, Fairfield County, and then by
stipulation - of the parties the case was reserved for- the
advice and direction of the Supreme Court of Errors as
to what judgment, decree or, decision should be made or
rendered- thereon by the Superior Court.
,The chief questions considered by the Supreme Court of
Errors were, first, whether the interest of the decedent
in the partnership 'of Openhyni & Sons was' subject to
a transfer tax in Connecticut, -,and second, whether the
bonds of the United States and certificates of its indebted-

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

ness were to be deemed tangible property in New York
and beyond the taxing jurisdiction of the State of Connecticut. There were other questions of taxable jurisdiction over other items of the estate, but we shall consider these two first.
The Supreme Court of Errors held, first, that the interest of the decedent in the partnership was a chose in action
and intangible and the transfer thereof was subject to the
tax imposed by the law of the decedent's domicil; second,
that the bonds and certificates of the United States were
tangible property having a situs in New York and were
not within the taxable jurisdiction of Connecticut, but
were to be regarded as in the same class of tangibles as
the paintings, works of art and furniture considered in
the case of Frick v. Pennsylvania,268 U. S.473. In that
case, Pennsylvania, the State of Mr. Frick's domicil,
sought to impose a transfer or succession tax on the paintings and other tangible personalty, which had always
been in New York City, and it was held that they had an
actual situs in New York and that, under the Fourteenth
Amendment, Pennsylvania could impose no transfer or
successsion tax in respect of them. Applying what it
conceived to be the principle of that case to the bonds
of the United States and certificates of its indebtedness in
this, the Supreme Court of Errors held that their transfer could not be taxed in Connecticut.
The Superior Court, following the advice of the Supreme Court of Errors, entered a judgment giving full
effect to it. That is the final judgment in the case and
it is the judgment now to be reviewed.:
In No. 191 a writ of error was allowed by the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of Errors and the Presiding Judge of the Superior Court of the State of Connecticut under Section 237(a) of the Judicial Code, Act of
February 13, 1925 (ch. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 937) to the final
and consolidated judgment of the Superior Court of Con-

BLODGETT v. SILBERMAN.
1

Opinion of the Court.

necticut as the highest court of the State in which a decision in the suit could be had, because there was drawn
in question therein the validity of chapter 190, of the
Public Acts of 1923 of Connecticut, on the ground of its
being repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
and especially to.-the Fourteenth Amendment thereof, in
that the statute as construed and applied by the Superior
Court levied a succession tax on the transfer and succession of property and choses in action of the decedent
which were within the jurisdiction of New York and not
within the jurisdiction of Connecticut, the decedent's
domicil.
In No. 190, the State Tax' Commissioner applied for
a writ of certiorari to the same consolidated judgment,
and sought a reversal of that judgment in so far as it
denied to the State of Connecticut, because of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution, the power
and right created by its statute, chapter 190 of the Public
Acts of 1923, to tax the transfer of the United States
bonds and certificates of indebtedness and of $287.50 in
bank notes and coin, all in a safe deposit box in the City
and State of New York, as not within the taxing jurisdiction of Connecticut.
Had the Supreme Court of Errors put its ruling against
the validity of part of the tax on -the construction of the
State Constitution or statute, we could not review that
ruling, because it would have involved only a question
of state law, but so far as the ruling was put on the
ground that the State could not impose the tax consistently with the due process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, a federal question is presented which
we may consider, and when we have determined the
federal questions, the cause will go back to the state court
for further proceedings not inconsistent with our views
on such federal questions.

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

The Connecticut Succession and Transfer Act, Ch. 190
of the Public Acts of 1923, says in its section 1:
"All property and any interest therein owned by a resident of this state at the time of his decease, and all real
estate within this state owned by a nonresident of this
state at the time of his decease, which shall pass by will
or inheritance under the laws of this state; and all gifts of
such property by deed, grant or other conveyance, made
in contemplation of the death of the grantor or donor, or
intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or
after the death of such grantor or donor, shall be subject
to the tax herein prescribed."
This is a tax not upon property but upon the right or
privilege of succession to the property of a deceased person as is made clear in the opinion of the Supreme Court
of Errors in this and prior cases. Silberman v. Blodgett,
105 Conn. 192; Corbinv. Townshend, 92 Conn. 501;,Hopkins' Appeal, 77 Conn. 644; Warner v. Corbin, 91 Conn.
532; Gallup's Appeal, 76 Conn. 617; Nettleton's Appeal,
76 Conn. 235. These cases are all in accord with Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.41, 47, in which it was said by this
Court that:
"Taxes of this general character are universally deemed
to relate, not to property eo nomine, but to its passage by
will or by descent in case of its intestacy, as distinguished
from taxes imposed on property; real or personal as such,
because of its ownership and possession. In other words,
the public contribution which death duties exact is predicated on the passing of property as the result of death, as
distinct from a tax on property dissociated from its transmission or receipt by will, or as the result of intestacy."
The power of the State of a man's domicil to impose a
tax upon the succession to, or the transfer of, his intangible property, even when the evidences of such property
are outside of the State at the time of his death, has been
constantly asserted by the legislatures of the various

1BLODGETT v. SILBERMAN.
1-

Opinion of the Court.

States. The Supreme, Court of Errors in its opinion in
this case says that at the present time the inheritance. tax
laws of over four-fifthsof the States impose a tax similar
to that imposed by Connecticut. Frothinghamv. Shaw,
175 Mass, 59; In re Estate of Zook, 317 Mo. 986;
In re Sherwood's Estate, 122 Wash. 648; Mann. v.
Carter, 74 N. H. 345; People v. The Union Trust Company, 255 Ill. 168; In re Lines' Estate, 155 Pa. 378; In re
Estate of Hodges, 170 Cal. 492; Commonwealth v. Williams' Executor, 102 Va. 778. The same -principle was
recognized by this Court in Carpenterv. Pennsylvania, 17
How. 456, before the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the prmciple was reaffirmed thereafter in Orr
v. Gilman, 183 U. S.278; Keeney v. New York, 222 U. S.
525; and Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625. In the latter
case the question arose as to the power of Wisconsin to
impose a tax upon the succession to certain intangible
property of one of its citizens, the evidences of which were
held by a trust company in Illinois upon a revocable trust
at the time of his death, and the power was sustained.
Reference to the record in the case shows that the property
included shares of stock in Missouri, New Jersey and Illinois corporations; stock in a national bank organized
under the National Banking Act; mortgage bonds and
debentures issued by New Jersey, Illinois, Missouri, Utah
and Kansas corporations; promissory notes of resiaents of
Illinois and Minlesota; insurance policies issued by New
York, Canadian and Wisconsin insurance companies- and
money on deposit in two Illinois banks. -The same
principle-was affirmed in the Frick case.
At common law the maxim "mobilidsequuntur personam" applied. There has been discussion and criticism
of the application and enforcement of that maxim, but it
is so fixed in the common law of this country and of England, in so far as it relates to intangible property, including choses in action, without regard to whether they are

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

evidenced in writing or otherwise and whether the papers
evidencing the same are found in the State of the domicil
or elsewhere, and is so fully sustained by cases in this and
other courts, that it must be treated as settled in this jurisdiction whether it approve itself to legal philosophic test
or not.
Further, this principle is not to be shaken by the inquiry
into the question whether the transfer of such intangibles,
like specialties, bonds or promissory notes, is subject to
taxation in another jurisdiction. As to that we need not
inquire. It is not the issue in this case. For present
purposes it suffices that intangible personalty has such a
situs at the domicil of its owner that its transfer on his
death may be taxed there.
This brings us to the question whether the partnership
interest of the decedent in William Openhym & Sons was
a chose in action and intangible personalty. The partnership was a limited partnership organized in New York,
the last agreement therefor having been executed in
December, 1921. The New York partnership law then in
force was Chapter 408, Laws of 1919.
Under Section 51, of this law, a partner is a co-owner
with his partner of specific partnership property, holding
this property as a tenant in partnership. Such tenancy
confers certain rights with limitations; A partner has a
right equal to that of his partners to possess specific partnership property for partnership purposes, but not otherwise. His right in specific partnership property is not
assignable nor is it subject to attachment or execution
upon a personal claim against him; upon his death the
right to the specific property vests not in the partner's
personal representative but in the surviving partner; his
right in specific property is not subject to dower, curtesy,
or allowance to widows, heirs or next of kin.
Section 52 specifically provides:
"A partner's interest in the partnership is his share of
the profits and surplus and the same is personal property."

BLODGETT v. SILBERMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

Undeir Section 73, when any partner dies and the partnership'continues, his personal representative may have
the value of his interest at the date of dissolution ascertained and receive as an ordinary creditor an amount
equal to the value of his interest in the partnership with
interest.
Under Section 98, Chapter 640, Laws of 1922, the
rights of a general partner in a limited partnership,
which was the interest of the decedent here when he
died, are identical with those of a general partner in a
general partnership. And in regard to a limited partner's interest, Section 107 of the law specifically provides:
"A limited partner's interest in the partnership is personal property."
It is very plain, therefore, that the interest-of the
decedent in the partnership of William Openhym & Sons
was simply a right to share in what would remain of the
partnership assets after its liabilities were satisfied. It
was merely an interest in the surplus, a chose in action.
It is an intangible and carries with it a right to -an
accounting.
There were among the holdings and property of the
partnership, buildings and land. Although these statutes
were passed after the decision in Darrow v. Calkins, 154
N. Y. 503, we have no reason for thinking that the partnership law of New-York is now any different from what
its Court of Appeals said it was in that case, pp. 515, 516,
as follows:
"It is, however, generally conceded that the question
whether partnership real estate shall-be-deemed absolutely
converted into personalty for all purposes, or only converted pro tanto for the purpose of partnership equities,
may be controlled by the express or implied agreement
of the partners themselves, and that where by such agreement it appears that it was the intention of the partners that the lands should be treated and administered

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

as personalty for all purposes, effect will be given thereto.
In respect to real estate purchased for partnersHip purposes with partnership funds and used in the prosecution
of the partnership business, the English rule of 'out and
out' conversion may be regarded as properly applied on
the ground of intention, even in jurisdictions which have
not adopted that rule as applied to partnership real estate
acquired under different circumstances and where no
specific intention appeared. The investment of partnership funds in lands and chattels for the purpose of a
partnership business, the fact that the two species of
property are in most cases of this kind, so commingled
that they can not be separated without impairing the
value of each, has been deemed to justify the inference
that under such circumstances the lands as well as the
chattels were intended by the partners to constitute a
part of the partnership stock and that both together
should take the character of personalty for all purposes,
and Judge Denio in Cotlumb v. Read expressed the opinion
that to this extent the English rule of conversion prevailed here. That paramount consideration should be
given to the intention of the partners when ascertained,
is conceded by-most of the cases."
It thus clearly appears that both under the partnership
agreement and under the laws of the State of New York
the interest of the partner was the right to receive a sum
of money equal to his share of the net value of the partnership after a settlement, and this right to his share is
a debt owing to him, a chose in action, and an intangible.
We concur with the Supreme Court of Errors that as such
it was subject to the transfer tax of Connecticut.
We come then to the second question, whether bonds
of the United States and certificates of indebtedness of
the United States deposited in a. safe deposit box in New
York City, and never removed from there, owned by the

BLODGETT v. SILBERMAN.
1 I

Opinion of the Court.

decedent at the time of his death, were intangibles which
com6 within the rule already stated.
The argument is that such bonds, payable to bearer and
transferable from hand to hand, have lost their character
as choses in action and, have -taken on the qualities of
physical property, and cases are cited to indicate that
they can be made the subject of execution and constitute
a basis for the jurisdiction of the courts and -of taxing
officers of the State in which the paper upon which the
evidence of the debt or obligation is written, is found,
although their owner lives and dies in another State.
: The Supreme Court of Errors takes this view, citing
Frick v. Pennsylvania,and holds that the transfer of the
United States bonds and certificates is- taxable in New
York where they -are, and only there. The Court cites,
as sustaining its conclusion that the transfer of the
bonds is only taxable in New York, the case of State Tax
on Foreign-HeldBonds, 15 Wall. 300. - This case is often
cited to the point that Mr. Justice Field takes as indisputable (on page 319) that a State may not tax property
that is not within its jurisdiction-a matter- recogiized
in Frick v. Pennsylvania,268 U. S. 473,-489; Union Refrigerator Transit Company v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194,
202, and .GloucesterFerry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.
196, 206. The effect of :some of Mr. Justice Field's
laiguage in that' case, and the exact point on"which the
decision there turned, have since been fully discussed by
this Court and qualified -inSavings & Loan Society v.
Multnomah County, 169 U. S.421, 428; New Orleans v.
Stempel, 175 U. S. 309, 319, 320; and Blackstone v.
Miller, 188 U. S. 189, 206. The tax there held invalid
was a tax imposed by a statute of Pennsylvania upon the
interest due' a non-resident bond holder on bonds issued
by a corporation of that State. It is now settled in these
later cases that the point decided in the State Tax on

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U.S.

Foreign-HeldBonds case was that the law of Pennsylvania in requiring the railroad company, which issued
the bonds, to pay the state tax on them and deduct it
from the interest due the non-resident owners, was as to
them a law impairing the obligation of contracts under
Murray v. Charleston,96 U. S. 432. The case, therefore,
is not authority for the proposition for which the Supreme Court of Errors cites it, to-wit: That such bonds
are to be completely assimilated to tangible personal
property. The other cases cited by the Supreme Court
of Errors are New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309, 321,
and like cases which follow it in which a State, not that
of the domicil of the owner, has been held to have the
right to tax bonds, promissory notes, and other written
evidences of choses in action with which business is there
carried on for the owner, giving them what is sometimes
called "a business situs "; but such cases have little or no
bearing on the power of the State of a decedent's domicil
to tax the transfer of his bonds which we are now
considering.
The question here is whether bonds, unlike other choses
in action, may have a situs different from the owner's
domicil such as will render their transfer taxable in the
State of that situs and in only that State. We think
bonds are not thus distinguishable from other choses in
action. It is not enough to show that the written or
printed evidence of ownership may, by the law of the
State in which they are physically present, be permitted
to be taken in execution or dealt with as reaching that
of which they are evidence, even without the presence of
the owner. While bonds often are so treated, they are
nevertheless in their essence only evidences of debt. The
Supreme Court of Errors expressly admits that they are
choses in action. Whatever incidental qualities may be
added by usage of business or by statutory provision, this
characteristic remains and shows itself by the fact that

BLODGETT v. SILBERMAN.
1

Opinion of the Court.

their destruction physically will not destroy the. debt
which they represent. They are representative and not
the thing itself.
The case of Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S. 491, is in
point. The case came to this Court from the Supreme
Court of Errors of Connecticut and it involved the taxable status in that State of bonds held by one, of its citizens and evidencing a debt owing to him by a citizen of
Illinois.. The court said, p. 498:
"The question does not seem to us to be very difficult
of solution. The creditor, it is conceded, is a permanent
resident within the jurisdiction of the State imposing the
tax. The debt is property in his hands constituting a
portion of his wealth, from which he is under the highest
obligation, in common with his fellow-citizens of the
same State, to contribute for the support of the government whose, protection he enjoys.
"That debt, although a species of intangible property,
may, for purposes of taxation, if not for all others, be
regarded as situated at the domicile of the creditor. It
is none the less property because its amount and maturity are set forth in a bond. That bond, wherever actually
held or deposited, is only the evidence of the debt, and if
destroyed, the debt-the right to. demand .payment of
the money loaned, with the stipulated interest-remains.
Nor is the debt, for the purposes of taxation, affected by
the fact that it is secured by mortgage upon real estate
situated in Illinois. The mortgage is but a security for
the debt, and, as held in State Tax on Foreign-heldBonds.
(supra), the right of the creditor 'to proceed against the
property mortgaged, upon a given contingency, to enhas
force by its sale the payment of his demand, ....
it
resides.
whom
in
party
the
of
no locality independent
It may undoubtedly be taxed by tie State when held by a
resident therein,' &c. Cooley on Taxation, 15, 63, 134,
270. The debt, then, having its situs at the creditor's

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

residence, both he and it are, for the purposes of taxation,
within the jurisdiction of the State."
The line which was drawn in t1e case of Frick v. Pennsylvania, supra, was one which was adopted from the decision of this Court in Union Refrigerator Transit Company v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, and other cases cited in
the same connection, where it was held that the power
of taxation could not extend to tangible chattels having
an actual situs outside the jurisdiction, although the
owner was within it. It was pointed out that this is not
true of debts and choses in action, which usually have a
taxable situs at the owner's donieil. In the Union Refrigerator case, this Court said, p. 205:
"In this class of cases the tendency of modern authorities is to apply the maxim mobilia sequuntur personam,
and to hold that the property may be taxed at the domicil
of the owner as the real situs of the debt, and also, more
particularly in the case of mortgages, in the State where
the property is retained."
The Court again said, p. 206:
"The arguments in favor of the taxation of intangible
property at the domicil of the owner have no application
to tangible property. The fact that such property is
visible, easily found and difficult to conceal, and the tax
readily collectible, is so cogent an argument for its taxation at its situs, that of late there is a general consensus
of opinion that it is taxable in the State where it is permanently located and employed and where it receives its
entire protection, irrespective of the domicil of the owner.
We have, ourselves, held in a number of cases that such
property permanently located in a State other than that
of its owner is taxable there. Brown v. Houston, 114
U. S. 622; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Pullman's Car Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Western Union Telegraph
Company v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; RailroadCorn-

BLODGETT v. SILBERMAN.

1

Opinion of the-Court.

pany v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5; American Refrigerator
Transit Company v. Hall, 174 U. S. 70; Pittsburgh Coal
Company v. Bates, 156 U. S. 577; Old Dominion Steamship Company v.,.Virginia, 198 U. S. 299.'
The Court continued,-p. 206:
"Therejare doubtless cases in the state reports announcing the principle that the ancient maxim of mobilia
sequuntur personam still applies to personal property,
and that it may be taxed at the domicil of the owner, but
upon examination they all or nearly all relate to intangible property,-- such as stocks, bonds, notes and other
choses in action. We are cited to none applying this rule
to tangible property, and after a careful examination have
not been able to find any wherein the question is squarely
presented.
"
The discussion in the Union Refrigerator case shows
what this Court meant in the Frick case in holding that
personal property in the form of paintings and furniture
having an actual situs in one State could not be subjected
to a transfer tax in another State, and emphasizes the
inference that it did not apply to anything havingc as its
essence an indebtedness or a chose in action and could
not apply to property in -theform of specialties-or bonds
or other written evidences of indebtedness whether governmental or otherwise, even though they passed from
hand to hand. The analogy between furniture and bonds
cannot be complete because bonds are r~presentative only
and are not the thing represented. They are at most
choses in action and intangibles.
We think therefore that the Supreme Court of Errors
in extending the rule of the Frick case from tangible personal- property, like paintings, furniture or cattle, to
bonds, is not warranted, and to that extent we must reverse its conclusion in denying to Connecticut the right
to tax the transfer of the bonds and Treasury certificates.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

Of course this reasoning necessarily sustains the different
view of that court that the transfer of certificates of stock
in corporations of other States than Connecticut was taxable in the latter as the transfer of choses in action.
Among the other items is a savings bank account in
New York which is certainly a chose in action and was
properly treated as subject to the same rule. So, too, a
life insurance policy payable to the estate was also of
that character.
There was a small amount of cash, $287.48, in bank
notes and coin in a safe deposit box in New York which
the Supreme Court of Errors held not taxable in Connecticut. As to this, the contention on behalf of Connecticut is that it should be treated as attached to the
person of the owner and subject to a transfer tax at the
domicil. It is argued that it was not like coin or treasure
in bulk, but like loose change, so to speak. To money
of this amount tisually and easily carried on the person, it
is said that the doctrine of mobilia sequuntur personam
has peculiar application in the historical derivation of the
maxim. But we think that money, so definitely fixed and
separated in its actual situs from the person of the owner
as this was,. is tangible property and can not be distinguished from the paintings and furniture held in the
Frick case to be taxable only in the jurisdiction where
they were.
The results thus stated lead to our reversing the judgment of the Superior Court of Connecticut, in respect
to the tax on the transfer of the bonds and certificates of
indebtedness of the United States, and, to our affirming
the judgment in other respects.
It is further contended by the executors that the proceedings in the Connecticut court and the judgment
therein fail to give full faith and credit to the public
acts, records and proceedings of the State of New York,
and that this is in violation of the Constitution of the

WILLIAMS v. GT. SOUTHERN LUMBER CO.

19

1Syllabus.

United States. We do not think there is anything in this
point. There is nothing in the proceedings in the Connecticiit court that is inconsistent with those in the New
York court. There is nothing to indicate that the New
York court decided, assuming it had jurisdiction to decide,
that there was no-power in the State of Connecticut to
impose a tax on the transfer -that was taxed in Connecticut. More than that, the. proceedings and judgment in New York were not such as would conclude Connecticut even with the aid of the full faith and credit
clause of the Constitution. •Connecticut was not a party
to those proceedings or to that judgment, nor was it in
privity with any one who was a party.
Affirmed in' part and reversed in part.
WILLIAMS v. GREAT SOUTHERN LUMBER
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 252. Argued March 1, 2, 1928.-Decided April 16, 1928.
1. Plaintiff sought damages from the defendant Lumber Company
for the death of her husband, alleging that the company had conspired with others to kill him ahd break up a local labor union of
which he was the head, and that his death, which occurred
through shooting when warrants were being served on three other
men in his office, was the result of such conspiracy. A crucial
issue was whether the party that killed him was in dharacter a mob
acting with the company or a bona fide posse sent by the Chief
of Police to aid a city policeman in making the arrests; and upon this
issue the reason had by the Chief of Police for sending a posse was
of prime importance. Respecting this it appeared among other facts
(detailed in the opinion), that on the morning.when the shooting
occurred the three men, for one of whom a warrant had already
been issued, were seen on the street, the other two armed with
shotguns; that the three -walked together along the main street

