WILLIAMS v. GT. SOUTHERN LUMBER CO.

19

1Syllabus.

United States. We do not think there is anything in this
point. There is nothing in the proceedings in the Connecticiit court that is inconsistent with those in the New
York court. There is nothing to indicate that the New
York court decided, assuming it had jurisdiction to decide,
that there was no-power in the State of Connecticut to
impose a tax on the transfer -that was taxed in Connecticut. More than that, the. proceedings and judgment in New York were not such as would conclude Connecticut even with the aid of the full faith and credit
clause of the Constitution. •Connecticut was not a party
to those proceedings or to that judgment, nor was it in
privity with any one who was a party.
Affirmed in' part and reversed in part.
WILLIAMS v. GREAT SOUTHERN LUMBER
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 252. Argued March 1, 2, 1928.-Decided April 16, 1928.
1. Plaintiff sought damages from the defendant Lumber Company
for the death of her husband, alleging that the company had conspired with others to kill him ahd break up a local labor union of
which he was the head, and that his death, which occurred
through shooting when warrants were being served on three other
men in his office, was the result of such conspiracy. A crucial
issue was whether the party that killed him was in dharacter a mob
acting with the company or a bona fide posse sent by the Chief
of Police to aid a city policeman in making the arrests; and upon this
issue the reason had by the Chief of Police for sending a posse was
of prime importance. Respecting this it appeared among other facts
(detailed in the opinion), that on the morning.when the shooting
occurred the three men, for one of whom a warrant had already
been issued, were seen on the street, the other two armed with
shotguns; that the three -walked together along the main street

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Counsel for Parties.

277 U. S.

of the city causing excitement among bystanders, and entered the
decedent's office; that a policeman who saw them notified the
Chief of Police; and that the Chief of Police obtained a warrant for arrest of the two armed men, charging breach of the
peace; lodged it and the other warrant with a paid policeman
for service, and, in view of conditions threatening to the public
peace and the reported conduct of the two armed men, deemed
it advisable to send the posse with the arresting officer. The
trial judge charged that a citizen carrying arms publicly on
the street committed no offense for which he was subject to arrest.
Held erroneous to exclude evidence - offered by the defendant
company, showing that these two men, while walking the streets
armed, had used threatening language, amounting in the circumstances to a breach of the peace, and that this had been communicated to the Chief of Police before he procured the warrants
and ordered out the posse. P. 24.
2. In an action for the death of a man, based on an alleged conspiracy to kill him, a statement, 15 minutes after the killing,
made by one of the party -that did it, to the effect that they had
come to kill the deceased and had killed him,--Hed inadmissible
against the defendant as a part of the res gestae. P. 25.
3. Since the passage of the Act of 1919, amending Jud. Code,, § 269,
as before, an error which relates, not to merely formal or technical
matters, but to the substantial rights of the parties, is ground for
reversal unless it appears from the whole record that it was harmless and did not prejudice the rights of the complaining party.
P. 26.
17 F. (2d) 468, -affirmed.

CERTIORAI, 275 U. S. 511, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which reversed a judgment recovered
in the District Court, 13 F. (2d) 246, in an action brought
by the present petitioner ,against the respondent Lumber
Company, based on the alleged unlawful killing of her
husband. Petitioner sued for herself and as tutrix of a

minor child.
Messrs. W. J. Waguespack and A. F. Higgins, with
whom Mr. Max M. Schaumburger was on the brief, for
petitioner.

WILLIAMS v. GT.SOUTHERN LUMBER CO.

21

Opinion of the Court.

19

Mr. H. -Generes- Dufour, with whom Messrs. B. M.
Miller -and Delos :R. Johnson were on the brief; for
respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE SANFORD.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought in the federal' court' for eastern
Louisiana by Lena A. Williams, widow of L. E. Williams,
in her own behalf and as tutrix of their minor child,
against the Great Southern Lumber Company, to recover
damages for the alleged unlawful killing of her husbanid.
She had a Verdict nd judgment. 13 F. (2d) 246. 'The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the judgment, and
remanded the case for a new trial. 17 F. (2d) 468.
The Lumber Company operated a sawmill in the city of
Bogalusa, Louisiana, in which it employed about 2,500
men, white and colored.' The sawmill was conducted as
an "open shop," and although union laborers were employed individually, the Company did not deal with the
union itself. Williams was president of the local umon.
The complaint alleged that a conspiracy had been
formed between the Company, its officers, 'agents and
others to kill Williams and destroy 'organized labor in the
city, and that he was killed without just cause by a mob
composed largely of officers, agents and employees of the
Company acting within the scope of their employment.
The Company denied this and alleged that he was killed
by a posse of peace officers of the city while he was unlawfully resisting them in attempting to serve warrants issued
for the arrest of certain other persons.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, while stating that there
was no direct evidence of the alleged conspiracy, did not
pass upon the question whether the trial court had erred
in denying the Company's request for a directed verdict,
but reversed the judgment -on the grounds of error in de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

clining to permit the introduction of certain evidence
offered by the Company, and in admitting certain evidence
of the plaintiff.
The petitioner contends that these rulings of the trial
court were correct; and that, even if erroneous, they were
technical errors which did not affect the substantial rights
of~he Company or constitute grounds of reversal.
For the purpose of determining these contentions it
suffices to say that there was substantial evidence showing
or tending to show the following facts: For some time
there had been much disturbance in the city, arising apparently out of friction between the labor union and the
Company as to its open shop policy,- and an effort to
unionize the colored laborers. On one occasion millwrights brought to the city to repair broken machinery
which had caused the mill to shut down, had been forced
to re-enter the train and leave the city. On another, certain laborers had been put in jail and a crowd of their
sympathizers, some of whom were armed, had threatened
a jail delivery. On another, the light and water plant,
supplied by power from the Company's plant, had been
forced to shut down temporarily. And frequently there
had been disorders at meetings of the city commission.
The general condition finally became so threatening to the
public peace and safety that a number of business and
professional men organized a League-to which no union
members or persons connected with the Company were
admitted-for the purpose of assisting the city authorities
in maintaining law and order, and offered their services to
the city as volunteer police to serve when occasion might
require. On the advice of the city judge and attorney and
the State district judge, this offer was accepted, and many
members of the League were sworn in as such special
police. The Commissioner of Public Safety and the Chief
of Police also arranged with the manager of the Company
that when so requested a siren whistle at the mill, which

WILLIAMS v. GT. SOUTHERN LUMBER CO.
19

23

Opinion of the Court.

had been customarily used as a fire alarm, should be
sounded to summon the volunteer police. And on the
occasion of the threatened jail delivery the volunteer
police had been thus summoned and had caused the
dispersal of the mob.
For some weeks immediately prior to the killing of
Williams there had been a shut-down of the mill due to
*the breakage of machinery and conditions in the city had
quieted.
In this state of affairs, on the day before Williams was
killed, a city warrant was issued, on the complaint of
a merchant who was a member of the volunteer police,
against one Dacus, a colored man, on the charge of being
a dangerous and suspicious character. Just what had
been the connection of' Dacus, if any, with the labor
troubles does not clearly appear. On that day Dacus could
not be found, and was not arrested. On the next day, however, he appeared on the streets of the city in company with
two white men, O'Rourke and Bouchillon, associates of
Williams in the labor union, who were armed with shot
guns. The three together walked along the main street
of the city, causing excitement among the bystanders,
and entered upon the premises upon which Williams
had his office and residence. A policeman who saw them
immediately informed the Chief of Police of what had
occurred. The court, however, did not permit the policeman to testify as to the language used by O'Rourke and
Bouchillon, which he-reported to the Chief of Police; nor
the Chief of Police to testify as to the language thus
reported to him. The Chief of Police, who was also informed of this occurrence by other citizens, obtained a
city warrant for the arrest of O'Rourke and Bouchillon
on the charge of disturbing the public peace, which, with
the warrant for Dacus, was given to a paid police officer
for service. Both the Chief of Police and the Commissioner of Public Safety, with whom he conferred, were of

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

opinion that in view of the existing conditions and the
reported conduct of O'Rourke and Bouchillon, it was advisable, in view of the small number of paid police available, that ' the officer to whom the warrants were given
should be accompanied by the Commissioner of Public
Safety and by the volunteer police. At their request the
Superintendent caused the siren whistle to be sounded,
and many of the volunteer police assembled at the city
hall. A posse consisting of the paid policeman with these
volunteer police, headed by the Commissioner of Public
Safety, then proceeded to Williams' office for the purpose of making the arrests. They were also accompanied
or followed by several other people-some of whom were
officers or employees of the Company-who had not been
summoned as members of the posse.
There was a direct conflict in the evidence as to what
occurred when the posse reached Williams' office; some of
the witnesses testifying to the effect that Williams and
others in the office were killed by members of the party,
without warning or provocation; and others testifying
that Williams, who was standing at the door of the office,
was notified that the purposi of the visit was to serve
warrants on Dacus, O'Rourke and Bouchillon, and called
upon to put down a pistol held by him and permit the
arrests to be made, which he refused to do; and that a
shot was then fired from the inside of the office, and this
was followed by a fusillade from outside and inside the
office, in which Williams was killed, and others, including
O'Rourke and Bouchillon, were killed or wounded.
1. The Company should have been permitted to show
the language that was used by O'Rourke and Bouchillon
and communicated to the Chief of Police. The offer of
proof was to the effect that, as communicated to the Chief
of Police, O'Rourke and Bouchillon while walking down
the streets with shotguns, with Dacus between them,

WILLIAMS v. GT. SOUTHERN LUMBER CO.
19

25

Opinion of the CoUrt.

said-using vile and opprobrious epithets-that they
would like to see any white, man-who would come and
take Dacus away, or the eye of any white man who would
touch him. This plainly indicated a purpose to prevent
by force the arrest of Dacus, and was a breach of the
peace. A crucial issue in the case was whether the party
that killed Williams was a mob, acting in concert with the
Company, which had gone to Ihis office for the purpose
of killing him; or whether it was a bona fide posse of
peace officers sent by the Chief of Police and the Commissioner of Public Safety to -aid the officer in making the
arrests. On this issue it was -of prime importance to the
Company to show the reason which the Chief of Police
and the Commissioner of Public Safety had:for sending
the posse of -voluntary police to assist in making the
arrest, and not leave the bona fide nature of the possewhich was directly brought in issue-to depend merely
upon the expression of their opinion without a full showing of the facts upon which that opinion was based. This
was emphasized by the fact that while the district judge
did not permit evidence of the threatening language used
by O'Rourke and Bouchillon to go to the jury, he charged
them that a citizen carrying arms publicly on the street
committed no offense and Was not subject to arrest; thus
leaving the jury to infer that the conduct of O'Rourke and
Bouchillon, unaccompanied by any evidence of threatening language, was entirely lawful, and not a justification
for issuing the warrants ' againstthem or sending the posse
of voluntary police to assist in the arrests. The exclusion
of evidence as to the threatening language obviously prevented the Company from presenting its full and complete
defense to the jury.
2. The district court also permitted the plaintiff, over
the objection of the Company, to testify that about ten or
fifteen minutes after her husband had been killed and

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U.S.

the last shot had been fired, she heard one Carson, a
member of the volunteer police force, say that "they had
come to kill Lem Williams, and they had killed him."
There was a direct conflict in the evidence as to whether
Carson had been with the party at the time Williams was
killed; the weight of the evidence being to the effect
that he had been sent to another part of the city and
had arrived after the killing. But, however this may
be, the statement made by him as to the purpose the
party had in coming, made after the killing had taken
place and when the conspiracy, if one had existed, had
accomplished its purpose, was hearsay, not part of the
res gestae, and not admissible against the Company.
3. The judgment was properly reversed on account of
these errors. This was not affected by the provision' of
§ 269 of the Judicial Code, as amended in 1919,1 that in
an appellate proceeding judgment shall be given after the
examination of the entire record, "without regard to
technical errors, defects or exceptions which do not affect
the substantial rights of the parties." The errors in the
exclusion and admission of evidence directly affected the
substantial rights of the Company. Since the passage of
this Act, as well as before, an error which relates, not
to merely formal or technical matters, but to the substantial rights of the parties "is to be held a ground for
reversal, unless it appears from the whole record that it
was harmless and did not prejudice the rights of the
complaining party." United States v. River Rouge Co.,
269 U. S. 411, 421. Here it cannot be said from the
entire record that the errors were harmless; but on the
contrary they were material and of a highly prejudicial
character.
Judgment affirmed.
140 Stat. 1181, c. 48; U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 391.

