138

OCTOBER TERM,: 1927.
Syllabus.

277 U. S.

petitions for certiorari (see Gaines v. Washington, ante,
p. 81), we think that the petitions should be denied. The
trivial character of the questions presented illustrates
again the wisdom of not granting, in cases involving the
orders of administrative boards, a review as of rightwith its attendant right to oral argument. It is true that
each of these cases presents a question involving the Federal Constitution. But in both the controlling principle
is well settled, and the question presented is simply
whether on the particular facts it is applicable. Obviously such a question is of no general importance. The
number of administrative boards, state and municipal,
with- like power to issue orders is now very large. Each
board issues many orders. And each order may, by its
application to varying facts, give rise to many distinct
constitutional questions. Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v.
Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282.
HAMBURG-AMERICAN LINE TERMINAL & NAVIGATION COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
SAME v. SAME.
ATLAS LINE STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 3, 4, 5. Argued April 25, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
1. Under the Trading With the Enemy Act of October 6, 1917, ยง 2,
property in this country owned by a domestic corporation was nonenemy property even though an enemy owned all of its stock.
P. 140.
2. Where property of a domestic corporation whose stock was enemyowned was taken over during the war and the compensation fixed by
the President was paid, interest on the sum paid is not recoverable
from time of taking to time of payment, in the absence of anything
showing that due allowance for the delay was not made in fixing
the compensation. P. 141.

HAMBURG-AMERICAN CO. v. U. S.
138

139

Opinion of the Court.

3. Petitions in these cases alleging taking and use of plaintiffs' propeity by the United States, state causes of action but should be

made more definite and certain by amendment.
59 Ct. CIs. 461; Id. 974, reversed.

P. 11.

A PPPAs from judgments of the Court of Claims dismissing petitions based on the taking and use of plaintiffs'
property during the war."
Mr. Charles-H.Le Pevre for appellants..
Solicitor General-Mitchell for the United States.
Congress- has adopted the' policy- of determining -the
status of corporations as enemy or not without -regard
to the nationality of their stockholders, and the United
States admits error in the decision of the Court, of Claims
in so far as it held that the property 6f New Jersey corporations was enemy-owned because all their -stock was
enemy-owned.
As the appellant in'each case is to be dealt with as a
citizen of the United- States,* notwithstanding its stock
was enemy-owned, their-upon the taking of the use of
its property a contract to pa just compensation for that
use was implied. '
The claim for interest on the award of compensation
for the taking of the title must fail because there is noting on the face of the award or in the petition tb indicate that any item of. just compensation was omitted.
The United States concedes that the judgments should
be reversed and compensation awarded for the value of
the use.

'

MR. JuSTICE MeP Ywo~ibs delivered the opinion 6f the

Court.

These appeals were taken June 16, 1924, from judgments of the Court of Claims which sustained demurrers
to the petitions. For the views of that Court see DeutschAustralische Dampfschiffs-Gesellschaft, Appellant, v.The

140

OCTOBER TER!M, 1027.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

United States, 59 Ct. Cls. 461. Appellants are incorporated under the laws of New Jersey and their entire capital stock has long been owned by the Hamburg-American
Line, a German corporation.
In Cause No. 3 the appellant seeks to recover (1) compensation for the use of certain docks and piers, New York
harbor, seized by the United States April 6, 1917, and
used by them until June 28, 1918; and (2) interest on the
sum awarded by the President (December 3, .1918) as
compensation for the same property, from June 28, 1918,
when title was taken thereto until January 5, 1919, the
date of actual payment. In Cause No. 4 the claim is for
the value of two tug-boats, launch, barge, and coal hoister
requisitioned and taken by the United States April 6, 1917,
at the port of New York; and in No. 5 judgment is asked
because of three barges, likewise taken on the same day.
The court below evidently pioceeded upon the view
that the property of appellant corporations should be
treated as owned by an enemy because their entire capital
stock belonged to a German corporation. And as the
property was seized during the war with Germany it held
there could be no recovery. Without doubt Congress
might have accepted and acted upon that theory. It was
adopted in the St. Tudno, Lloyd's Reports of Prize Cases,
Vol. V, p. 198, and the Michigan,Lloyd's Reports of Prize
Cases, Vol. V, p. 421. But Congress did not do so; it
definitely adopted the policy of disregarding stock ownership as a. test of enemy character and permitted property
of domestic corporations to be dealtf with as non-enemy.
The prescribed plan was to seize the shares of stock when
enemy owned rather than to take over the corporate
property.
The Trading With The Enemy Act, approved October
6, 1917 (c. 106, 40 Stat. 411), provides"Sec. 2. That the word 'enemy,' as used herein, shall
be deemed to mean, for the purposes of such trading and
of this Act-

HAMBURG-AMERICAN_ C0. v. U. S.
138

Opinion of the. Court.

"(a) Any individual, partnership, or other body of idividuals, of any nationality; residenf.within the territory
(including that occupied by the military andnavdl forces)
of any nation with which the"United States is at war, or
resident outside the United States aid doing business
within such territory, and any corporation incorporated
within such territory of any nation. with which the United
States is at war or incorporated within any country other
than the United States and doing business within such
territory .
.
In Behn, Meyer & Co. v.Miller,-Alien Property Custodian, 266 U. S. 457, 472, we.held. the status-of the corporation was not fixed by the stockholders' hatibnality,
and said"Before its passage the original Trading with the
Enemy Act was considered-ii the"light'of difficulties certain to follow disregard of cotporate identity and efforts
to fix the status of corporations as enemy or not according to the nationality of stockholders. These had been
plainly indicated by the di~ierse opinions in Daimler Co.
v. Continkntal Tyre & Rubber Co., 2 A: C. (1916). 307.
The petition in No. 3 states a good cause of action for
the use of the docks and piers-from April 6, 1917, tfoJune
28, 1918. As Congress might have directed forfeituie ofall property beneficially ownedb- enemy subjects, it had"
power to providdfor seizure followed by such compensation as the President might determine. Here such compensation was fixed and ultimately paid; and "we 'find
nothing to show that due allowance was not. made for
the delay inpayment.
In No. 4 the petition fails clearly to show what. action
was taken by the.United States. It.does allege that the
propbrty was taken and used andto that extent discloses
adequate ground for recovery. It ought to be made more
certain by amendment:

142

OCTOBER TER!M, 1927.
Argument for Petitioner.

277 U. S.

If title to the vessels described in Cause No. 5 was
actually taken, the United States became liable for their
value. For any use of such vessels before acquisition of
title the United States should pay. The allegations of
the petition are not entirely clear and should be made
more definite.
The judgments appealed from are reversed. The causes
will be remanded to the Court of Clainm for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion,
Reversed.
LONG, COMMISSIONER, v. ROCKWOOD.
SAME v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE COUNTY OF
WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.

Nos. 201 and 202. Argued January 20, 1928.--Decided'Aay 14, 1928.
A State may not tax the income received by one of her citizens as
royalties for the use of patents issued to him by the United States.

P. 145.
257 Mass. 572, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 274 U. S. 729, 730, to judgments of the
Superior Court of Massachusetts abating taxes, entered
on rescripts from the Supreme Judicial Court. The judgments were recovered by Rockwood in actions against
Long, Commissioner of Corporations and Taxation of the
Commonwealth.

Mr. F. Delano Putnam, Assistant Attorney General of
Massachusetts, with whom Messrs. Arthur K. Reading,
Attorney General, and R. Ammi Cutter, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for petitioner.
All that a patentee obtains by his patent is the right
to exclude others from the use, manufacture, or sale of
the process patented. A patent once granted is merely

