OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.
OLMSTEAD

ET

277 U. S.

AL. v. UNITED STATES

GREEN .T

AL.

v. SAME.

McINNIS v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 493, 532 and 533.

Argued February 20, 21, 1928.--Decided
June 4, 1928.

1. Use in evidence in a criminal trial in a federal court of an incriminating telephone conversation voluntarily conducted by the accused
and secretly overheard from a tapped wire by a government officer,
does not compel the accused to be a witness against himself in violation of the Fifth Amendment. P. 462.
2. Evidence of a conspiracy to violate the Prohibition Act was obtained by government officers by secretly tapping the lines of a
telephone company connected with the chief office and some of the
residences of the conspirators, and thus clandestinely overhearing
and recording their telephonic conversations concerning the conspiracy and in aid of its execution. The tapping connections were
made in the basement of a large office building and on public
streets, and no trespass was committed upon any property of the
defendants. Held, that the obtaining of the evidence and its use
at the trial did not violate the Fourth Amendment. Pp. 457-466.
3. The principle of liberal construction applied to the Amendment to
effect its purpose in the interest of liberty, wil not justify enlarging
it beyond the possible practical meaning -of "persons, houses,
papers, and effects," or so applying "searches and seizures" as to
forbid hearing or sight. P. 465.
4. The policy of protecting the secrecy of telephone messages by
making them, when intercepted, inadmissible as evidence in federal
criminal trials, may be adopted by Congress through legislation;
but it is not for the courts to adopt it by attributing an enlarged
and unusual meaning to the Fourth Amendment. P. 465.
5. A provision in an order granting certiorari limiting the review to a
single specific question, does not deprive the Court of jurisdiction to
decide other questions presented by the record. P. 466.
6. The common law of evidence having prevailed in the State of
Washington since a time antedating her transformation from a

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Argument for Petitioners.

Territory to a State, those rules apply in the trials of criminal cases
in the federal courts sitting in that State. P. 466.
7. Under the common law, the admissibility of evidence is not affected by the fact of its having been obtained illegally. P. 467.
8. The rule excluding from the federal courts evidence of crime procured by government officers by methods forbidden by the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments, is an exception to the common law rule.
Id.
9. Without the sanction of an Act of Congress, federal courts have no
discretion to exclude evidence, the admission of which is not unconstitutional, because it was unethically procured. P. 468.
10. The statute of Washington, adopted in 1909, making the interception of telephone messages a misdemeanor, cannot affect the
rules of evidence applicable in federal courts in criminal cases.
Id.
19 F. (2d) 842, 848, 850, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 276 U. S. 609, to judgments of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming convictions of conspiracy to
violate the Prohibition Act. See 5 F. (2d) 712; 7 F.
(2d) 756, 760. The order granting certiorari confined
the hearing to the question whether the use in evidence
of private telephone conversations, intercepted by means
of wire tapping, violated the Fourth and Fifth Amendments.
Mr. John F. Dore, with whom Messrs. F. C. Reagan and
J. L. Finch were on the brief, for petitioners in No. 493.
The principles controlling this case were first announced by this Court in Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S.
616. They have never been deviated from, but have been
reiterated again and again in a series of cases, the last of
which is Byars v. United States, 273 U. S. 28. See also
Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298.
If incriminating evidence is secured by means of trickery, subterfuge, trespass or fraud, and, after it has been so
secured, finds its way into the hands of government officials, no legal ground can be urged against its introduction
in evidence, for the reason that no constitutional question

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioners.

277 U. S.

is involved. If, however, the fraud, subterfuge, trespass
or theft is perpetrated by government officials, or if a government official participates directly or indirectly therein,
the evidence thus secured is not admissible for the reason
that it was secured in a manner which violates the provisions of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution. Byars v. United States, supra; United States v.
Mandel, 17 F. (2d) 270; Rudkin, J., in case at bar, dissenting opinion.
The Boyd case lays down search and seizure law, and
nothing but search and seizure law, but it involved neither
a search nor a seizure.
Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S.
385, was ruled by application of the Fourth Amendment,
but it was not a search and seizure case either. Upon
appeal to this Court, it was held that the proceedings
were an attempt to do indirectly what the Government
could not do directly.
Gouled v. United States, supra, did not involve a search
and seizure as these words are employed in legal parlance,
but the case was ruled by search and seizure law and
application of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments.
It is not necessary that the act complained of be strictly
a search or seizure, if its effect be to compel a man to furnish the evidence to convict himself of crime, and the act
be one of governmental agency. See Village of Euclid v.
Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365.
These principles apply to "all invasions on the privacies of life." No exact definition of this term has been
found, but obviously it is a comprehensive term and
surely includes the right to be let alone.
The right to the exclusive enjoyment of a telephone
free of interference from anybody, is a right of privacy.
No government agent has a right to interpose an earpiece
upon it any more than he has a right to raise the curtain
and peek through another's window. If two persons are

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Argument for Petitioners.

conversing in a room of one of them, an intrusion therein
by a government agent secretly is an intrusion upon their
right of privacy. Is it any the less so if they are in separate rooms connected by a telephone and some interloper
"listens in" by means of " tapping" the wire? Such conduct constitutes an invasion of the privacies of life, and
when done by a government agent, falls within the condemnation of the Boyd case; and evidence thereby secured is inadmissible for the purpose of securing a conviction in a criminal case.
Mr. Frank R. Jeffery, for petitioner in No. 533, and
some of the petitioners in No. 532.
This Court has held that the Fourth and Fifth Amendments were inspired by the same abuses, preceding the
adoption of the Constitution, and they must be liberally
construed in favor of the citizen and his liberty, and that
stealthy eniroachments upon the rights guaranteed by
them will not be tolerated. Boyd v. United States, 116
U. S. 616.
The majority opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit places a narrow construction upon
the rights protected by these Amendments, declaring that
"the purpose of the Amendments is to prevent the invasion of homes and offices and seizure of incriminating
evidence found therein."
The majority opinion concedes that the tapping of the
defendants' telephone wires is an "unethical intrusion
on the privacies of persons who are suspected of crime,"
but holds that "it is not an act which comes within the
letter of the prohibition of constitutional provisions."
These declarations of the Circuit Court of Appeals are
directly contrary to the holdings of this Court. In Ex
parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727, this Court 'did not limit the
application of the Amendments to the "invasion of homes
and offices." Neither has this Court limited the applica,

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioners.

277 U.S.

tion of these Amendments to the "letter" of the same.
On the contrary, the underlying thought in each decision
of this Court affecting these Amendments has been to
apply the "spirit" of them. In the Boyd case this Court
declares that these principles "apply to all invasions on
the part of the Government and its employees of the security of a man's home and the privacies of life." In that
case no search and seizure were involved, if the words
"search and seizure" be given their literal meaning.
The Court in its decision admitted, in effect, that no actual search and no actual seizure were involved, but held
that the result was the same as if an actual search and an
actual seizure were made.
It definitely established that it is not the mere form
and substance of the acts of government agents which
determine whether the search and seizure are in violation
of the constitutional provisions, but it is the results accomplished by such acts. If such acts "effect the sole
object and purpose of search and seizure," then they come
within the inhibition of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments.
In the case at bar, the sole object of the government
agents was to obtain evidence relating to transactions in
liquor by the defendants. The conversations heard over
the telephone were of evidential value only. It is no
crime to exchange messages relating to the possession and
sale of liquor. The crime is to possess and sell liquor, and
conversations concerning the possession or sale are only
admissible when the liquor which is possessed or sold is
seized. Suppose that the messages relating to the possession and sale of the liquor had been sent by letter. No
warrant to search the homes, offices or persons of the defendants for such letter could have been obtained.
Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298. Likewise, no
valid search warrant could be obtained by government
agents to tap the telephone lines of the defendants for

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Argument for Petitioners.

the purpose of securing evidence of the private messages
and conversations relating to the possession or sale of
liquor.
Furthermore, the admission of the evidence of government agents as to the messages transmitted over the telephone wires compelled the defendants to give evidence
against themselves just as effectively as if they had been
forced to take the witness stand and themselves testify
as to the messages sent over the telephone; yea, just
as effectively as if the defendants had been required
•to produce in court private messages sent by letter of
exactly the same import as the messages sent by 'phone.
The result is to compel the defendants to become the unwilling source of evidence to convict them of crime, which
this Court in the Boyd case held to be a violation of the
defendants' right under the Fifth Amendment.
It would. indeed be difficult to attempt to enumerate
all of those things coming within the phrase "the privacies of life," but it would be equally difficult to suggest
any more sacred or any greater privacy of life under
present conditions than that of using a private telephone
line for transmitting private and confidential communications to one's family and business associates. What
greater invasion of this privacy of life could be contemplated than to have one's private and confidential communications intercepted and overheard by promiscuous
government agents by means of secretly tapping one's
telephone? The telephone as a means of communication
was not known to the world at the time of Lord Camden's
judgment, or at the time of the adoption of the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments, or even at the time of the decision of this Court in the Boyd case. The only means of
communication at that time was by letter, and the right
to transmit a secret message in a letter without having
it intercepted and read by government agents was de-

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioners.

277 U. S.

clared by this Court in no uncertain language in the case
of Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727.
It is not the paper which is protected by the constitutional inhibitions, but it is the message contained in the
letter. In the same manner, any message transmitted by
telephone or telegraph should be protected. The interpretation of the language of the Amendments should be
sufficiently liberal and elastic to apply the principles laid
down in the Boyd case to the conditions of to-day. That
this is the true criterion is declared by this Court in
Village of Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365.
The telephones used by the defendants were theirs
against all the world, even against the telephone company
while their tolls were paid. The telephone lines leading
to the defendants' houses and offices, as well as the telephone equipment in the houses and offices, were the private property of the defendants. They had the right to
the exclusive use and enjoyment of them, except the
license given by them to connect other lines with their
lines for the purpose of receiving incoming calls. When
the government agents tapped the defendants' telephone
lines they committed a trespass upon the property rights
of the defendants. The effect of this trespass was to project themselves into the houses and offices of the defendants, with the same result as if they had broken through
the windows or doors and secretly seized letters containing the identical messages that were transmitted over the
'phones. The result was not only an unlawful search for
evidence, but an unlawful seizure by means of which the
defendants, in effect, were compelled to testify against
themselves. As stated by Judge Rudkin, those who use
the telephone are not broadcasting to the world. Under
modem conditions the telephone has, to a large extent,
supplanted the mails as a means of transmitting private
messages. It has become indispensable to every home
and office. If the stamp of approval is put upon the ac-

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Argument for Petitioners.

tion of government agents in seeking and obtaining evidence against those suspected of crime by means of tapping private telephone lines, the door is opened wide for
the great mass of citizens using the telephone for lawful
purposes to have their private and confidential communications relating to business and family subjected to the
scrutiny of government agents. Such a system of espionage would become deplorable and unbearable. It would
deprive the citizenship of the country of the personal security and the enjoyment of the privacies of life guaranteed by the Constitution, and subject them to an espionage unequalled by the conditions prevailing under the
King's officers prior to the Revolution.
Messrs. Arthur E. Griffin, George F. Vanderveer, and
Samuei B. Bassett, on a brief for petitioners in No. 532.
The right to use the telephone, and the right of privacy
in its enjoyment, are property rights which the courts have
repeatedly upheld. It was precisely this right of privacy
or secrecy in business matters which this Court protected
in the Boyd case. The same was true in Weeks v. United
States, 232 U. S. 383, where the article involved was a
canceled lottery ticket having no pecuniary value whatever and which had been seized by government agents
solely for evidential purposes. In both of these cases this
Court said that each of these Amendments threw much
light upon the other because they were designed to
remedy the same abuses. And it has always been held
that any search and seizure was unreasonable under the
provisions of the Fourth Amendment which had for its
purpose the compulsory extortion of evidence, no matter
what the form of the evidence, to be used in violation of
the Fifth Amendment.
In the Gouled case it was held immaterial whether the
seizure of a man's papers was accompanied by force or
threat of force, or whether it was accomplished by stealth.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioners.

277 U. S.

Ex parte Jackson condemned the "bare inspection" of
letters in the mail, entirely without reference to the question whether the owner was thereby deprived of his
papers or not. It was the violation of their privacy that
was obnoxious to the law. See Cooley, Const. Lim., 7th
ed., p. 424; Ex parte Brown, 7 Mo. App. 484; Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385. None
of these decisions can be reconciled with the narrow interpretation which the Solicitor General would place upon
these Amendments.
It is doubtless true that a message transmitted by
telephone is in no sense a paper. But it is also true that
privacy is as essential to the conduct of business by telephone or telegraph as by mail, and the courts have always
been as ready to protect privacy in the one case as in the
other. The Constitution was not written for a day or a
year, nor can it be re-written to meet every changing circumstance of our lives. For this reason Constitutions
deal with principles.
The Government suggests that the case can not be distinguished from a case where a federal officer on a public
street overhears conversations within a citizen's private
residence, or where a federal officer joins a band of conspirators and listens from day to day tp conversations in
their homes and elsewhere. But it seems to us that both
these cases are clearly distinguishable from the case at
bar on the precise basis that in neither of them was there
any wrongful invasion of any right of privacy, but on the
contrary in both hypothetical cases the conspirators had
themselves thrown privacy to the four winds and, of
course, could not be heard to complain of the results of
their own folly. Here it is appropriate to call attention
to the statute of Washington forbidding the intercepting
of telephone or telegraph messages, Remington's Comp.
Stats., § 2656, Subdiv. 18, and to a federal statute passed
by Congress in 1912 to protect the privacy of the radio.

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Argument for the United States.

The abuses of which'we complain in this case are identical in kind with those to which the English people were
subjected during the latter half of the Eighteenth Century, 6nd the speeches of Lord Chatham and James Otis,
and the letters of Thomas Jefferson and John Adams,
leave no doubt in our minds as to how they would have
felt on the subject of having government agents tap their
private telephone wires. Burdeau v. McDowell, 256
U. S.465.
Mr. Michael J. Doherty, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell
was on the brief, for the United States.
The Fifth Amendment can only be invoked by first
showing that there has been a violation of the Fourth
Amendment. The third clause of the Fifth Amendment
"nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself" merely gave constitutional sanction to a rule of common law well established at the time
fhe Constitution was adopted. 6 Jones on Evidence, 2d
ed., § 2474; Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S.78.
Obviously the case has nothing to do with the provision against self-incrimination in its original and primary
sense, that is, the compulsion of the accused by legal
process to produce in court evidence either testimonial
or physical. Ordinarily evidence of incriminating oral
statements made by the accused before, during, or after
the commission of a crime, overheard by a witness and
testified to by him in court, is always competent.
The only inhibition against evidence in this form is that
which forbids evidence of extorted confessions. Here
there was neither extortion nor confession. There was no
coercion, threat or promise. Moreover, the conversations
were not in the .nature of confessions. They were a part
and parcel of the criminal transaction. The prohibition
officers, relating in court what they overheard, were testi-

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the United States.

277 U. S.

fying as immediate witnesses of the crime, as much so as
would be a witness who testified to having seen liquor
delivered and the price paid.
Aside from the rule against duress of legal process and
extorted confessions, it was a fundamental and timehonored rule of common law that evidence was not rendered inadmissible in a criminal case by illegality of the
means by which It was obtained. This rule of the common law is still in force in England and Canada and in a
majority of the States. The illegality dealt with in many
of the state cases was the violation of the constitutional
rights under provisions of state constitutions substantially identical with the Fourth Amendment. 5 Jones on
Evidence, c. 22; Blakemore on Prohibition, 2d. ed., p.
519; Cornelius on Search and Seizure, p. 45; Search and
Seizure, 8 Am. Bar. Ass'n Journal, p. 479; State v. Aime,
62 Utah 4-76; State v. Owens, 302 Mo. 348.
In the light of Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616;
Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585; Weeks v: United
States, 232 U. S. 383; Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United
States, 251 U. S. 385; Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S.
298; Agnello v. United States, 269 U. S. 20; Amos v.
United States, 255 U. S. 313; Byars v. United States, 273
U. S. 28; and Marron v. United States, 275 U. S. 192, it
is not open to question that evidence obtained by federal
officers in violation of the Fourth Amendment is inadmissible as evidence in criminal trials in federal courts. To
that extent the common law rule and anything said to the
contrary in the Adams case has been abandoned.
The limits of this departure from the common law rule
are, however, definite. The reason for it appears to be
the cl9se interrelation that is conceived to exist between
the Fourth and the Fifth Amendments. It has never
been extended to evidence obtained illegally in the general sense, but only where the illegality amounts to a
violation of the Fourth Amenadment. Evidence obtained

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Argument for the United States.

by trespass, fraud, unethical or even criminal methods, is
admissible if the Fourth Amendment be not violated.
5 Jones on Evidence, §§ 2075 et seq.; Adams v. New York,
supra; Hester v. United States, 265 U. S. 57; McGuire v.
United States, 273 U. S. 95; Koths v. United States, 16
F. (2d) 59; United States v. Mandel, 17 F. (2d) 270.
The Fifth Amendment therefore is not involved in this
case, unless it can be invoked as a result of a violation of
the Fourth Amendment.
The Fourth Amendment was the direct consequence of
two abuses practiced by the English Government-the
use of general warrants and the use of writs of assistance.
The Wilkes and Entick cases, in their criminal and civil
aspects, attracted universal attention and aroused tremendous opposition to the use of general warrants, resulting in their condemnation by the courts and a declaration of their illegality by the House of Commons.
May, Const. Hist. of England, p. 110 et seq ; 1 Cooley,
Const. Lim., 8th ed., p. 612; Boyd v. United States, supra;
19 How. State Trials, 1029, 1153.
The use of writs of assistance in the American Colonies
was authorized by the Act of Parliament of 1767, 7 Geo.
III, c. 46. The use of the writs soon led to great public
agitation and opposition, -particularly in Massachusetts,
led by James Otis, but their use continued to the outbreak of the Revolution. 3 Channing, Hist. of U. S.,
pp. 1-5 and 114. Knowledge and apprehension of these
avuses-warrants and writs--was fresh in the minds of
the colonial statesmen when it came to framing the
Constitution.
The Virginia Constitution had already adopted a bill
of rights, of which § 10 was as follows:
"That general warrants, whereby an officer or messenger may be commanded to search suspected places without evidence of a fact committed, or to seize any person
or persons not named, or -whose offense is not particu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the United States.

277 U. S.

larly described and supported by evidence, are grievous
and oppressive, and ought not to be granted."
An amendment to the Federal Constitution similar to
this was proposed by the Virginia ratification convention.
Journal of the Convention of Virginia, p. 34. As introduced by James Madison at the first session of Congress
it read:.
"The right of the people to be secured in their persons,
their houses, their papers, and their other property from
all unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated by warrants issued without probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, or not particularly describing the places to be searched, or the persons or things to
be seized." Annals of Congress, Vol. I, col. 434.
A committee of one member from each State was appointed to consider and report such amendments as ought
to be proposed by Congress to the legislatures of the
States. In the report of this committee was piroposed an
amendment differing but slightly from that originally
proposed by Madison. The word "effects" was substituted for the words "other property." Mr. Gerry, saying
that he presumed there was a mistake in the wording of
the clause, moved that it be amended to read: "The right
of the people to be secured in their persons, houses,
papers, and effects against unreasonable seizures and
searches . . ." Annals of Congress, Vol. I, col. 754.
The amendment came out of conference committee in
its present form, and we have no light as to the reason for
the further change in phraseology. It is quite apparent
that the principal, if not the sole, peril in the minds of
those who advocated the amendment and against which
its protection was intended was the use of general warrants and the writs of assistance.
In Boyd v. United States, supra,the Court said that the
judgment of Lord Camden in Entick v..Carringtonmight
be considered as sufficiently explanatory of what was

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Argument for the United States.

meant by unreasonable searches and seizures; and Chief
Justice Taft in the Carroll case said that the Fourth
Amendment is to be construed in the light of what' was
deemed an unreasonable search and seizure when it was
adopted.
This Court has frequently said that the Fourth and
Fifth Amendments should be construed liberally; but it
is submitted that by no liberality of construction can a
conversation passing over a telephone wire become a
"house," no more can it become a "person," a "paper,")
or an "effect." "Effects" is the least definite of the four
words. This Court has said of "effects" that-"when the word is used alone, or simpliciter,it means
all kinds of personal estate. . .. But if there be some
word used with it, restraining its meaning, then it is governed by that, or means something ejusdem generis."
PlantersBank v. Sharp, 6 How. 301, .321.
Giving to the word its literal import, the sense in which
it is generally understood, its natural significance taken in
connection with the context in which it appears, it does
not seem possible to include within its meaning anything
other than tangible personal property, or to extend it to
include a telephone conversation or any intangible right of
privacy of the parties with respect to such conversation.
Petitioners are urging the extension of the Fourth
Amendment into a new field, the limits of which are
difficult to define. If evidence obtained by tapping telephone wires at points not in private dwellings is excluded
on constitutional grounds, on the same principle would
not all manner of evidence gathered by ruse or entrapment have to be excluded? Suppose -an officer obtains
access to a telephone on a party line and listens to incriminating conversations of other parties having telephones on the line; suppose that, instead of tapping a
wire, he goes to the telephone exchange and, wih or
without permission of the operator, plugs in on a private

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Telephone Companies.

277 U. S.

line and listens; suppose he leases an office and puts a
dictaphone in the wall of the adjoining office and listens;
suppose without trespassing he is able to put his ear to
the keyhole of the door of an office or house and listens;
suppose he pretends to join a conspiracy and thereby
gains access to the inner councils of the conspirators and
hears the hatching of their criminal schemes. These examples, varying into slight shades of distinction, might
be multiplied indefinitely to show the extremes to which
the principle contended for would lead. Once cut loose
from the fair literal import of the language of the Amendment, apd there is no place to anchor.
In the construction of the Amendment a balance should
be sought between that which will preserve the fundamental safeguard which the Amendment was designed to
secure, and at the same time not unduly fetter the arm
of the Government in the enforcement of law. The practical aspect of the problem is forcibly expressed in
People v. Mayen, 188 Cal. 237.
If, in any circumstances, obtaining evidence by tapping
wires is deemed an objectionable governmental practice,
it may be regulated or forbidden by statute, or avoided by
officers of the law, but clearly the Constitution does not
forbid it unless it involves actual unlawful entry into a
house.
Messrs. Otto B. Rupp, Charles M. Bracelen, Robert H.
Strahan,and Clarence B. Randall on behalf of The Pacific
Telephone and Telegraph Company, American Telephone
and Telegraph Company, United States Independent
Telephone Association, and the Tri-State Telephone and
Telegraph Company, as amici curiae, filed a brief by
special leave of Court.
The petitioners were using the telephone lines and
facilities of the local telephone company, such as were
available to everyone without discrimination. The func-

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Argument for Telephone Companies.

tion of a telephone system in our modern economy is, so
far as reasonably practicable, to enable any two persons.
at a distance to converse privately with each other as
they might do if both were personally present in the
privacy of the home or office of either one. When the
lines of two" parties" are connected at the central office,
they are intended to be devoted to their exclusive use, and
in that sense to be turned over to their exclusive possession. A third person who taps the lines violates the
property rights of both persons then using the telephone,
and of the telephone company as well. Internat'l News
Service v. Associated Press, 248 U. S. 215.
It is of the very nature of the telephone service that it
shall be private; and hence it is that wire tapping has
been made an offense punishable either as a felony or
misdemeanor by the legislatures of twenty-eight States,
and that in thirty-five States there are statutes in some
form intended to prevent the disclosure of telephone or
telegraph messages, either by connivance with agents, of
the companies or otherwise.
The wire tapper destroys this privacy. He invades
the :'personi*" of the citizen, and his "house," secretly
and without warrant. Having regard to the substance of
things, he would not do this more truly if he secreted
himself in the home of the citizen.
In view of what this Court has held as to the intent
and scope of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments, it would
not seem necessary to enter into any meticulous examination of their precise words. But if that be done, does
not wire tapping involve an " unreasonable search," of
the "house" and of the "person "? There is of course
no search warrant, as in the nature of the case there
could not be. If the agent should secrete himself in the
house or office to examine documents, w6uld not that
constitute a "search "? Is the case any different in the
eyes of the law if from a distance the agent physically

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Telephone Companies.

277 U. S.

enters upon the property of the citizen, as he does when
he taps the wire, and from that point projects himself
into the house? Certainly in its practical aspect the
latter case is worse than the first, because the citizen is
utterly helpless to detect the espionage to which he is
subjected.
If it be said that, in any event, there is no "seizure,"
that an oral conversation cannot be seized, we answer, in
the first place, that this is a purely superficial view, which
puts the letter above the spirit and intent of the law.
The "privacy of life" and the liberty of the citizen have
been invaded. And, in the second place, we do not
understand that seizure is a necessary element to constitute the offense. An unreasonable search alone violates
the Fourth Amendment. It is enough that the federal
officer has made an unreasonable search, within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment, and has thereby unlawfully obtained evidence. The evidence so obtained is
excluded under the provisions of the Fifth Amendment.
The Government itself provides the mail service, a
public service, and the Government authorizes the telephone company to provide the telephone service, also a
public service. It is settled that the communication in
the mail is protected. Upon what reason, then, can
it be said that the communication by telephone is not
protected?
The telephone has become part and parcel of the social
and business intercourse of the people of the United
States, and the telephone system offers a means of espionage compared to which general warrants and writs of
assistance were the puniest instruments of tyranny and
oppression.
The telephone companies deplore the use of their facilities in furtherance of any criminal or wrongful enterprise.
But it was not solicitude for law breakers that caused the
people of the United States to ordain the Fourth and

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Opinion of the Court.

Fifth Amendments as part of the Constitution.

Crimi-

nals will not escape detection and conviction merely because evidence obtained by tapping wires of a public telephone system is inadmissible, if it should be so held; but,
in any event, it is better that a few criminals escape than
that the privacies of life of all the people be exposed to
the agents of the Government, who will act at their own
discretion, the honest and the dishonest, unauthorized
and unrestrained by the courts. Legislation making wire
tapping a crime will not suffice if the courts nevertheless
hold the evidence to be lawful. Writs of assistance might
have been abolished by statute, but the people were wise
to abolish them by the Bill of Rights.
MR. GumF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases are here by certiorari from the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 19 F. (2d) 842
and 850. The petition.in No. 493 was filed August 30,
1927; in Nos. 532 and 533, September 9, 1927. They
were granted with the distinct limitation that the hearing should be confined to the single question whether the
use of evidence of private telephone conversations between the defendants and others, intercepted by means
of wire tapping, amounted to a violation of the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments.
The petitioners were convicted in the District Court
for the Western District of Washington of a conspiracy
to violate the National Prohibition Act by unlawfully
possessing, transporting and importing, intoxicating
liquors and maintaining nuisances, and by selling intoxicating liquors. Seventy-two others in addition to the
petitioners were indicted. Some were not apprehended,
some were acquitted and others pleaded guilty.
The evidence in the records discloses a conspiracy of
amazing magnitude to import, possess and sell liquor ui-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

lawfully. It involved the employment of not less than
fifty persons, of two seagoing vessels for the transportation of liquor to British Columbia, of smaller vessels for
coastwise transportation to the State of Washington, the
purchase and use of a ranch beyond ,the suburban limits
of Seattle, with a large underground cache for storage
and a number of smaller caches in that city, the maintenance of a central office manned with operators, the employment of executives, salesmen, deliverymen, dispatchers, scouts, bookkeepers, collectors and an attorney. In
a bad month sales amounted to $176,000; the aggregate
for a year must have exceeded two millions of dollars.
Olmstead was the leading conspirator and the general
manager of the business. He made a contribution of
$10,000 to the capital; eleven others contributed $1,000
each. The profits were divided one-half to Olnstead and
the remainder to the other eleven. Of the several offices
in Seattle the chief one was in a large office building. In
this there were three telephones on three different lines.
There were telephones in an office of the manager in his
own home, at the homes of his associates, and at other
places in the city. Communication was had frequently
with Vancouver, British Columbia. Times were fixed for
the deliveries of the "stuff," to places along Puget
Sound near Seattle and from there the liquor was removed and deposited in the caches already referred to.
One of the chief men was always on duty at the main
office to receive orders by telephones and to direct their
filling by a corps of men stationed in another room-the
"bull pen." The call numbers of the telephones were
given to those known to be likely customers. At times
the sales amounted to 200 cases of liquor per day.
The information which led to the discovery of the
conspiracy and its nature and extent was largely obtained
by intercepting messages on the telephones of the conspirators by four federal prohibition officers. Small

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Opinion of the Court.

wires were inserted along the ordinary telephone wires
from the residences of four of the petitioners and those
leading from the chief office. The insertions were made
without trespass upon any property of the defendants.
They were made in the basement of the large office building. The taps from house lines were made in the streets
near the houses.
The gathering of evidence continued for many months.
Conversations of the conspirators of which refreshing
stenographic notes were currently made, were testified to
by the government witnesses. They revealed the large
business transactions of the partners and their subordinates. Men at the wires heard the orders given for
liquor by customers and the acceptances; they became
auditors of the conversations between the partners. All
this disclosed the conspiracy charged in the indictment.
Many of the intercepted conversations were not merely
reports but parts of the criminal acts. The evidence also
disclosed the difficulties to which the conspirators were
subjected, the reported news of the capture of vessels, the
arrest of their men and the seizure of cases of liquor in
garages and other places. It showed the dealing by Olmstead, the chief conspirator, with members of the Seattle
police, the messages to them which secured the release of
arrested members of the conspiracy, and also direct promises to. officers of payments as soon as opportunity offered.
The Fourth Amendment provides--" The right of the
people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and
effects against unreasonable searches and seizures shall not
be violated; and no warrants shall issue but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation and particularly describing the place to be searched and the
persons or things to be seized." And the Fifth: "No
person
.
shall be compelled, in any criminal case,
to be a witness against himself."

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

It will be helpful to consider the chief cases in this
Court which bear upon the construction of these Amendments.
Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, was an information filed by the District Attorney in the federal court in
a cause of seizure and forfeiture against thirty-five cases
of plate glass, which charged that the owner and importer,
with intent to defraud the revenue, made an entry of the
imported merchandise by means of a fraudulent or false
invoice. It became important to show the quantity and
value of glass contained in twenty-nine cases previously
imported. The fifth section of the Act of June 22, 1874,
provided that in cases not criminal under the revenue
laws, the United States Attorney, whenever he thought
an invoice, belonging to the defendant, would tend to
prove any allegation made by the United States, might by
a written motion describing the invoice and setting forth
the allegation which he expected to prove, secure a notice
from the court to the defendant to produce the invoice,
and if the defendant refused to produce it, the allegations
stated in the motion should be taken as confessed, but if
produced, the United States Attorney should be permitted,
under the direction of the court, to make an examination
of the invoice, and might offer the same i1 evidence. This
Act had succeeded the Act of 1867, which provided that in
such cases the District Judge, pn affidavit of any person
interested, might issue a warrant to the marshal to enter
the premises where the invoice was and take possession of
it and hold it subject to the order of the judge. This had
been preceded by the Act of 1863 of a similar tenor, except
that it directed the warrant to the collector instead of the
marshal. The United States Attorney followed the Act
of 1874 and compelled the production of the invoice.
The court held the Act of 1874 repugnant to the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments. As to the Fourth Amendment,
Justice Bradley said (page 621):

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Opinion of the Court.

"But, in regard to the Fourth Amendment, it is contended that, whatever might have been alleged against the
constitutionality of the acts of 1863 and 1867, that of 1874,
under which the order in the present case was made, is free
from constitutional objection because it does not authorize
the search and seizure of books and papers, but only requires the defendant or claimant to produce them. That
is so; but it declares that if he does not produce them, the
allegations which it is affiried they will prove shall be
taken as confessed. This is tantamount to compelling
their production; for the prosecuting attorney will always
be sure to state the evidence expected to be derived from
them as strongly as the case will admit of. , It is true that
certain aggravating incidents of actual search and seizure,
such as forcible entry into a man's house and gearching
amongst his papers, are wanting, and to this extent the
proceeding under the Act of 1874 is a mitigation of that
which was authorized by the former acts; but it accomplishes the substantial object of those acts in forcing from
a party evidence against himself. It is our opinion, therefore, that a compulsory production of a man's private
papers to establish a criminal charge against him, or to
forfeit his property, is within the scope of the Fourth
Amendment to the Constitution, in all cases in which a
search and seizure would be; because it is a material ingredient, and effects the sole object and purpose of search
and seizure."
Concurring, Mr. Justice Miller and Chief Justice Waite
said that *theydid not think the machinery used to get
this evidencd amounted to a search and seizure, but they
agreed that the Fifth Amendment had been violated.
The statute provided an official demand for the production of a paper or document by the defindant for official search and use as evidence on penalty that by refusal
he should be conclusively held to.admit the incriminat-

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

ing character of the document as charged. It was certainly no straining of the language to construe the search
and seizure under the Fourth Amendment to include such
official procedure.
The next case, and perhaps the most important, is
Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383,--a conviction for
using the mails to transmit coupons or tickets in a lottery
enterprise. The defendant was arrested by a police officer without a warrant. After his arrest other police
officers and the United States marshal went to his house,
got the key from a neighbor, entered the defendant's room
and searched it, and took possession of various papers and
articles. Neither the marshal nor the police officers had
a search warrant. The defendant filed a petition in court
asking the return of all his property. The court ordered
the return of everything not pertinent to the charge, but
denied return of relevant evidence. After the jury was
sworn, the defendant again made objection, and on introduction of the papers contended that the search without
warrant was a violation of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments and they were therefore inadmissible. This court
held that such taking of papers by an official of the United
States, acting under color of his office, was in violation
of the constitutional rights of the defendant, and upon
making seasonable application he was entitled to have
them restored, and that by permitting their use upon the
trial, the trial court erred.
The opinion cited with approval language of Mr. Justice Field in Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727, 733, saying
that the Fourth Amendment as a principle of protection
was applicable to sealed letters and packages in the mail
and that, consistently with it, such matter could only be
opened and examined upon warrants issued on oath or
affirmation particularly describing the thing to be seized.
In Silverthorne Lumber Company v. United States, 251
U. S. 385, the defendants were arrested at their homes and

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Opinion of the Court.

detained in custody. While so detained, representatives
of the Government without authority went to the office
of their company and seized all the books, papers and
documents found there. An application for return of the
things was opposed by the District Attorney, who produced a subpoena for certain documents relating to the
charge in the indictment then on file. The court said:
"Thus the case is not that of knowledge acquired
through the wrongful act of a stranger, but it must be
assumed that the Government planned or at all events
ratified the whole performance."
And it held that the illegal character of the original
seizure characterized the entire proceeding and under the
Weeks case the seized papers must be restored.
In Amos v. United States, 255 U. S. 313, the defendant
was convicted of concealing whiskey on which the tax had
not been paid. At the trial he presented a petition asking that private property seized in a search of his house
and store "within his curtlage," without warrant should
be returned. This was denied. A woman, who claimed
to be his wife, was told by the revenue officers that they
had come to search the premises for violation of the revenue law. She opened the door; they entered and found
whiskey. Further searches in the house disclosed more.
It was held that this action constituted a violation of the
Fourth Amendment, and that the denial of the motion to
restore the whiskey and to exclude the testimony was
error.
In Gouled v. The United States, 255 U. S. 298, the facts
were these: Gouled and two others were charged with
conspiracy to defraud the United States. One pleaded
guilty and another was acquitted.- Gouled prosecuted
error. The matter was presented here on questions propounded by the lower court. The first related to the admission in evidence of a paper surreptitiously taken from
the office of the defendant by one acting under the direc-

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

tion of an officer of the Intelligence Department of the
Army of the United States. Gouled was suspected of the
crime. A private in the U. S. Army, pretending to make
a friendly call on him, gained admission to his office and
in his absence, without warrant of any character, seized
and carried away several documents. One of these belonging to Gouled, was delivered to the United States
Attorney and by him introduced in evidence. When produced, it was a surprise to the defendant. He had had
no opportunity to make a previous motion to secure a
return of it. The paper had no pecuniary value, but
was relevant to the issue made on the trial. Admission
of the paper was considered a violation of the Fourth
Amendment.
Agnello v. United States, 269 U. S. 20, held that the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments were violated by admission in evidence of contraband narcotics found in defendant's house, several blocks distant from the place
of arrest, after his arrest, and seized there without a war-:
rant. Under such circumstances the .seizure could not
be justified as incidental' to the arrest.
There is no room in the present case for applying the
Fifth Amendment unless the Fourth Amendment was
first violated. There was no evidence of compulsion to
induce the defendants to talk over their many telephones.
They were continually and voluntarily transacting business without knowledge of the interception. Our consideration must be confined to the Fourth Amendment.
The striking outcome of the Weeks case and those
which followed it was the sweeping declaration that the
Fourth Amendment, although not referring to or limiting
the use of evidence in courts, really forbade its introduction if obtained by government officers through a viola,,
tion of the Amendment. Theretofore many had supposed
that under the ordinary common law rules, if the tendered
evidence wag pertinent, the method of obtaining .it was

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Opinion of the Court.

unimportant. This was held by the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts in Commonwealth v. Dana, 2
Metcalf, 329, 337. There it was ruled that the only
remedy open to a defendant whose rights under a state
constitutional equivalent of the Fourth Amendment had
been invaded was by suit and judgment for damages, as
Lord Camden held in Entick v. Carringtonr, 19 Howell
State Trials, 1029. Mr. Justice Bradley made effective
use of this case in Boyd v. United States. But in the
Weeks case, and those which followed, this Court decided
with great emphasis, and established as the law for the
federal courts, that the protection of the Fourth Amendment would be much impaired unless it was held that
not only was the official violator of the rights under the
Amendmbnt subject to action at the suit of the injured
defendant, but also that the evidence thereby obtained
could not be received.
The well known historical purpose of the Fourth
Amendment, directed against general warrants and writs
of assistance, was to prevent the use of governmental
force to search a man's house, his person, his papers and
his effects; and to prevent their seizure against his will.
This phase of the misuse of governmental power of compulsion is the emphasis of the opinion of the Court in the
Boyd case. This appears too in the Weeks case, in the
Silverthorne case and in the Amos case.
Gouled v. UnitedStates carried the inhibition against
unreasonable searches and seizures to the, extreme limit.
Its authority is not to be enlarged by implication and
must be confined to the precise state of facts disclosed by
the record. A representative of the Intelligence Department of the Army, having by stealth obtained admission
to the defendant's office, seized and carried away certain
private papers valuable for evidential purposes. This
was held an unreasonable search and seizure within the
Fourth Amendment. A stealthy entrance in such cir-

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

cumstances became the equivalent to an entry by force.
There was actual entrance into the private quarters of
defendant and the taking away of something tangible.
Here we have testimony only of voluntary conversations
secretly overheard.
The Amendment itself shbws that the search is to be of
material things-the person, the house, his papers or his
effects. The description of the warrant necessary to
make the proceeding lawful, is that it must specify the
place to be searched and the person or things to be seized.
It is urged that the language of Mr. Justice Field in
Ex parte Jackson, already quoted, offers an analogy to
the interpretation of the Fourth Amendment in respect
of wire tapping. But the analogy fails. The Fourth
Amendment may have proper application to a sealed letter in the mail becatise of the constitutional provision for
the Postoffice Department and the relations between the
Government and those who pay to secure protection of
their sealed letters. See Revised Statutes, §§ 3978
to 3988, whereby Congress monopolizes the carriage of
letters and excludes from that business everyone else,
and § 3929 which forbids any postmaster or other
person to open any letter not addressed to himself. It is
plainly within the words of the Amendment to say that
the unlawful rifling by a government agent of a sealed
letter is a search and seizure of the sender's papers or
effects. The letter is a paper, an effect, and in the custody of a Government that forbids carriage except under
its protection.
The United States takes no such care of telegraph or
telephone messages as of mailed sealed letters. The
Amendment does not forbid what was done here. There
was no searching. There was no seizure. The evidence
was secured by the use of the sense of hearing and that
only. There was no entry of the houses or offices of the
defendants.

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Opinion of the Court.

By the invention of the telephone, fifty years ago,
and its application for the purpose of extending communications, one can talk with another at a far distant place.
The language of the Amendment can not be extended
and expanded to include telephone wires reaching to the
whole world from the defendant's house or office. The
intervening wires are not part of his house or office any
more than are the highways along which they are
stretched.
This Court in Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S. 132,
149, declared:
"The Fourth Amendment is to be construed in the
light of what was deemed an unreasonable search and
seizure when it was adopted and in a manner which will
conserve public interests as well as the interests and-rights
of individual citizens."
Justice Bradley in the Boyd case, and Justice Clark in
the Gouled case, said that the Fifth Amendment and the
Fourth Amendment were to be liberally construed to effect
the purpose of the framers of the Constitution in the in.
terest of liberty. But that can not justify enlargement
of the language employed beyond the possible practical
meaning .of houses, persons, papers, and effects, or so to
apply the words search and seizure as to forbid hearing or
sight.
Hester v. United States, 265 U. S. 57, held that the testimony of two officers of the law who trespassed on the
defendant's land, concealed themselves one hundred yards
away from his house and saw him come out and hand a
bottle of whiskey to another, was not inadmissible. While
there was a trespass, there was no search of person, house,
papers or effects. United States v. Lee, 274 U. S. 559,
563; Eversole v. State, 106 Tex. Cr. 567.
Congress may of course protect the secrecy of telephone
messages by making them, when intercepted, inadmissible
in evidence in federal criminal trials, by direct legislation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

and thus depart from the common law of evidence. But
the courts may not adopt such a policy by attributing an
enlarged and unusual meaning to the Fourth Amendment.
The reasonable view is that one who installs in his house
a telephone instrument with connecting wires intends to
project his voice to those quite outside, and that the wires
beyond his house and messages while passing over them
are not within the protection of the Fourth Amendment.
Here those who intercepted the projected voices were not
in the house of either party to the conversation.
Neither the cases we have cited nor any of the many
federal decisions brought to our attention hold the Fourth
Amendment to have been violated as against a defendant
unless there has been an official search and seizure of his
person, or such a seizure of his papers or his tangible material effects, or an actual physical invasion of his house
"or curtilage" for the purpose of making a seizure.
We think, therefore, that the wire tapping here disclosed did not amount to a search or seizure within the
meaning of the Fourth Amendment.
What has been said disposes of the only question that
comes within the terms of our order granting certiorari in
these cases. But some of our number, departing from
that order, have concluded that there is merit in the twofold objection overruled in both courts below that evidence obtained through intercepting of telephone messages by government agents was inadmissible because the
mode of obtaining it was unethical and a misdemeanor
under the law of Washington. To avoid aify misapprehension of our views of that objection we shall deal with
it in both of its phases.
While a Territory, the English common law prevailed
in Washington and thus continued after her admission in
1889. The rules of evidence in criminal cases in courts
of the United States sitting there, consequently are those
of the common law. United States v. Reid, 12 How. 361,

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

467

Opinion of the Court.

363, 366; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, 301;
Rosen v. United States, 245 U. S. 467; Withaup v. United
States, 127 Fed. 530, 534; Robinson v. United States, 292
Fed. 683, 685.
The common law rule is that the admissibility of evidence is not affected by the illegality of the means by
which it was obtained. Professor Greenleaf in his work
on evidence, vol. 1, 12th ed., by Redfield, § 254(a). says:
"It may be mentioned in this place, that though papers
and other subjects of evidence may have been illegally
taken from the possession of the party against whom they
are offered, or otherwise unlawfully obtained, this is no
valid objection to their admissibility, if they are pertinent
to the issue. The court will not take notice how they
were obtained, whether lawfully or unlawfully, nor will it
form an issue, to determine that question."
Mr. Jones in his work on the same subject refers to Mr.
Greenleaf's statement, and says:
" Where there is no violation of a constitutional guaranty, the verity of the above statement is absolute."
Vol. 5, § 2075, note 3.
The rule is supported by many English and American
cases cited by Jones in vol. 5, § 2075, note 3, and § 2076,
note 6; and by Wigmore, vol. 4, § 2183. It is recognized by this Court in Adams v. New York, 192 U. S.
585. The Weeks case, announced an exception to the
common law rule by excluding all evidence in tle procuring of which government officials took part by methods
forbidden by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. Many
state courts do' not follow the Weeks case. People
v. Defore, 242 N. Y. 13. But those who do, treat it as an
exception to the general common law rule and required
by constitutional limitations. Hughes v. State, 145 Tenn.
544, 551, 566; State v. Wtills, 91 W. Va. 659, 677; State v.
Slamon, 73 Vt. 212, 214, 215; Gindrat v. People, 138 Iln.
103, 111; Peoplev. Castree,311 Ill. 392, 396, 397; State v.

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

Gardner, 77 Mont. 8, 21; State v. Fahn, 53 N. Dak. 203,
210. The common law rule must apply in the case at bar.
Nor can we, without the sanction of congressional enactment, subscribe to the suggestion that the courts have
a discretion to exclude evidence, the admission of which is
not unconstitutional, because unethically secured. This
would be at variance with the common law doctrine generally supported by authority. There is no case that sustains, nor any recognized text book that gives color to such
a view. Our general experience shows that much evidence has always been receivable although not obtained
by conformity to the highest ethics. The history of criminal trials shows numerous cases of prosecutions of oathbound conspiracies for murder, robbery, and other crimes,
where officers of the law have disguised themselves and
joined the organizations, taken the oaths and given themselves every appearance of active members engaged in
the promotion of crime, for the purpose of securing evidence. Evidence secured by such means has always been
received.
A standard which would forbid the reception of evidence if obtained by other than nice ethical conduct by
government officials would make socie y suffer and give
criminals greater immunity than has been known heretofore. In the absence of controlling legislation by Congress, those who realize the difficulties in bringing offenders to justice may well deem it wise that the exclusion of evidence should be confined to cases where
rights under the Constitution would be violated by admitting it.
The statute of Washington, adopted in 1909, provides
(Remington Compiled Statutes, 1922, § 2656-18) that:
"Every person . . . who shall intercept, read or
in any manner interrupt or delay the sending of a message over any telegraph or telephone line .
.
shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor."

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.

438

469

HoLMEs, J., dissenting.

This statute does not declare that evidence obtained
by such interception shall be inadmissible, and by the
common law, already referred to, it would not be. People
v. McDonald, 177 App. Div. (N. Y.) 806. Whether the
State of Washington may prosecute and punish federal
officers violating this law and those whose messages were
intercepted may sue them civilly is not before us. But
clearly a statute, passed twenty years after the admission
of the State into the Union can not affect the rules of
evidence applicable in courts of the United States in criminal cases. Chief Justice Taney, in United States v. Reid,
12 How. 361, "363, construing the 34th section of the
Judiciary Act, said:
"But it could not be supposed, without very plain
words to show it, that Congress intended to give the states
the power of prescribing the rules of evidence in trials for
offenses against the United States. For this construction
would place the criminal jurisprudence of one sovereignty
under the control of another." See also Withaup v.
United States, 127 Fed. 530, 534.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals are
affirmed. The mandates will go down forthwith under
Rule 31.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTicE HoLms:
My brother BRANDEIs. has given this case so exhaustive
an examination that I desire to add but a few words.
While I do'not deny it, I am not prepared to say that the
penumbra of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments covers
the defendant, although I fully agree that Courts are apt
to err by sticking too closely to the words of a law where
those words import a policy that goes beyond them.
Gooch v. Oregon Short Line R. R. Co., 258 U. S. 22, 24.
But I think, as IVMR. YusTicE BP NAwIs says, that apart
from the Constitution the Government ought not to use

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1927,
HOLMES, J., dissenting.

277 U. S.

evidence obtained and only obtainable by a criminal act.
There is no body of precedents by which we are bound,
and which confines us to logical deduction from established
rules. Therefore we must consider the two objects of desire, both of which we cannot have, and make up our minds
which to choose. It is desirable that criminals should be
detected, and to that end that all available evidence should
be used. It also is desirable that the Government should
not itself foster and pay for other crimes, when they are
the means by which the evidence is to be obtained. If it
pays its officers for having got evidence by crime I do not
see why it may'not as well pay them for getting it in the
same way, and I can attach no importance to protestations
of disapproval if it knowingly accepts and pays and announces that in future it will pay for the fruits. We have
to choose, and for my part I think it a less evil that some
criminals should escape than that, the Government should
play an ignoble part.
For those who agree with me, no distinction can be taken
between the Government as prosecutor and the Government as judge. If the existing code does not permit district attorneys to have a hand in such dirty business it
does not permit the judge to allow such iniquities to succeed. See Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251
U. S. 385., And if all that I have said so far be accepted
it makes no difference that in this case wire tapping is
made a crime by the law of the*State, not by the law of
the United States. It is true that a State cnmIot make
rules of evidence for Courts of the United States, but the
State has authority over the conduct in question, and
I hardly.think that the United States would appear to
greater advantage when paying for an odious crime against
State law than when inciting to the disregard of its own.
I am aware of the often repeated statement that in a
criminal proceeding the Court will not take notice of the
manner in which papers offered in evidence have been

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

471

BAims, J., dissenting.

obtained. But that somewhat rudimentary mode of disposing of -the question has been overthrown by Weeks
v. United States, 232 U. S. 383 and the cases that have
followed it. I have said that we are free to choose between
two principles of policy. But if we are to confine ourselves to precedent and logic the reason for excluding evidence obtained by violating'the Constitution seems to me
logically to lead to excluding evidence obtained by a
crime of the officers of the law.
MR. JusTice BR.wDms, dissenting.
The defendants were convicted of conspiring to violate
the National Prohibition Act. Before any of the persons
now charged had been arrested or indicted, the telephones
by means of which they habitually communicated with
one another and with others had been tapped by federal
officers. To this end, a lineman of long experience in
wire-tapping was employed, on behalf of the Government
and at its expense. He tapped eight telephones, some in
the homes of the persons charged, some in their offices.
Acting on behalf of the Government and in their official
capacity, at least six other prohibition agents listened over
the tapped wires and reported the messages taken. Their
operations extended over a period of nearly five months.
The type-written record of the notes of conversations
overheard occupies 775 typewritten pages. By objections
seasonably made and persistently renewed, the defendants objected to the admission of the evidence obtained
by wire-tapping, on' the ground that the Government's
wire-tapping constituted an unreasonable search and seizure, in violation of the Fourth Amendment; and that
the use as evidence of the conversations overheard compelled the defendants to be witnesses against themselves,
in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
The Government makes no attempt to defend the
methods employed by its officers. Indeed, it concedes

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRAI

EIs, J., dissenting.

277 U. S.

that if wire-tapping can be deemed a search and seizure
within the Fourth Amendment, such wire-tapping as was
practiced in the case at bar was an unreasonable search
and seizure, and that the evidence thus obtained was inadmissible. But it relies on the language of the Amendment; and it claims that the protection given thereby
cannot properly be held to include a telephone conversation.
"We must never forget," said Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 407, "that
it is a constitution we are expounding." Since then, this
Court has repeatedly sustained the exercise of power by
Congress, under various clauses of that instrument, over
objects of which the Fathers could not have dreamed.
See PensacolaTelegraph Co. v. Western Union Telegraph
Co., 96 U. S. 1, 9; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North
Dakota, 250 U. S. 135; Dakota Central Telephone Co. v.
South Dakota, 250 U. S. 163; Brooks v. United States,
267 U. S. 432. We have likewise held that general limitations on the powers of Government, like those embodied in the due process clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth
Amendments, do not forbid the United States or the
States from meeting modem conditions by regulations
which "a century ago, or even half a century ago, probably would have been rejected as arbitrary and oppressive." Village of Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S.
365, 387; Buck v. Bell, 274 U. S. 200. Clauses guaranteeing to the individual protection against specific abuses
of power, must have a similar capacity of adaptation to a
changing world. It was with reference to such a clause
that this Court said in Weems v. United States, 217 U. S.
349, 373: "Legislation, both statutory and constitutional, is enacted, it is true, from an experience of evils,
but its general language should not, therefore, be necessarily confined to the form that evil had theretofore taken.
Time works changes, brings into existence new conditions

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

BRAwEm, J., dissenting.

and purposes. Therefore a principle to be vital must be
capable of wider application than the mischief which gave
it birth. This is peculiarly true of constitutions. They
are not ephemeral enactments, designed to meet passing
occasions. They are, to use the words of Chief Justice
Marshall 'designed to approach immortality as nearly as
human institutions can approach it.' The future is their
care and provision for events of good and bad tendencies of which no prophecy can be made. In the application of a constitution, therefore, our contemplation cannot be only of what has been but of what may be. Under any other rule a constitution would indeed be.as easy
of application as it would be deficient in efficacy and
power. Its general principles would have little value and
be converted by precedent into impotent and lifeless formulas. Rights declared in words might be lost in reality."
When the Fourth and Fifth Amendments were adopted,
"the form that evil had theretofore taken," had been
necessarily simple. Force and violence were then the
only means known to man by which a Government could
directly effect self-incrimination. It could compel the
individual to testify-a compulsion effected, if need be,
by torture. It could secure possession of his papers and
other articles incident to his private life-a seizure effected, if need be, by breaking and entry. Protection
against such invasion of "the sanctities of a man's home
and the privacies of life" was provided in the Fourth and
Fifth Amendments by specific language. Boyd v. United
States, 116 U. S. 616, 630. But "time works changes,
brings into existence new conditions and purposes."
Subtler and more far-reaching means of invading privacy
have become available to the Government. Discovery
and invention have made it possible for the Goverinnent,
by means far more effective than stretching upon the
rack, to obtain. disclosure in court of what is whispered
in the closet.

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRANDs,J., dissenting.

277

U. S.

Moreover, "in the application of a constitution, our
contemplation cannot be only of what has been but of
what may be." The progress of science in furnishing
the Government with means of espionage is not likely
to stop with wire-tapping. Ways may some day be
developed by which the Government, without removing
]papers from secret drawers, can reproduce them in court,
and by which it will be enabled to expose to a jury the
most intimate occurrences of the home. Advances in the
psychic and related sciences may bring means of exploring unexpressed beliefs, thoughts and emotions. "That
places the liberty of every man in the hands of every
petty officer" was said by James Otis of much lesser
intrusions than these.- To Lord Camden, a far slighter
intrusion seemed "subversive of all the comforts of society." 2 Can it be that the Constitution affords no protection against such invasions of individual security?
A sufficient answer is found in Boyd v. United States,
116 U. S. 616, 627-630, a case that will be remembered as
long as civil liberty lives in the United States. This
Court there reviewed the history that lay behind the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments. We said with reference
to Lord Camden's judgment in Entick v. Carrington, 19
Howell's State Trials, 1030: "The principles laid down
in this opinion affect the very essence of constitutional
liberty and security. They reach farther than the concrete form of the case there before the court, with its
adventitious circumstances; they apply to all invasions
on the part of the Government and its employes of the
sanctities of a man's home and the privacies of life. It
is not the breaking of his doors, and the rummaging of his
drawers, that constitutes the essence of the offence; but it
is the invasion of his indefeasible right of personal seOtis' Argument against Writs of Assistance. See Tudor, James
Otis, p. 66; John Adams, Works, Vol. II, p. 524; Minot, Continuation

of the History of Massachusetts Bay, Vol. II, p. 95:

2 EntiCk v. Carrington, 19 Howell's State Trials, 1030, 1066.

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting

curity, personal liberty and private property, where that
right has never been forfeited by his conviction of some
public offence,-it is the invasion of this sacred right
which underlies and constitutes the essence of Lord
Camden's judgment. Breaking into a house and opening
boxes and drawers are circumstances of aggravation; but
any forcible and compulsory extortion of a man's own
testimony or of his private papers to be used as evidence
of a crime or to forfeit his goods, is within the condemnation of that judgment. In this regard the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments run almost into each other."
In Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S 727, it was held that a
sealed letter entrusted to the mail is protected by the
Amendments. The mail is a public service furnished by
the Government. The telephone is a public service furnished by its authority. There is, in essence, no difference between the sealed letter and the private telephone
message. As Judge Rudkin said below: "True the one is
visible, the other invisible; the one is tangible, the other
intangible; the one is sealed and the other unsealed, but
these are distinctions without a difference." *The evil
incident to invasion of the privacy of the telephone is far
greater than that involved in tampering with the mails.
Whenever a telephone line is tapped, the privacy of the
persons at both ends of the line is invaded and all con3

In Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447,
479, the statement made in the Boyd case was repeated; and the
Court quoted the statement of Mr. Justice Field in In re Pacific
Railway Commission, 32 Fed. 241, 250:" Of all the iights of the citizen, few are of greater importance or more essential to his peace and
happiness than the right of personal security, and that involves, not
merely protection of his person from assault, 'but exemption of his
private affairs, books, and papers, from the inspection and scrutiny
of others. Without the enjoyment of this right, all others would lose
half their value." The Boyd case has been recently reaffirmed in
Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385, in Gouled v.
United States, 255'U. S. 298, and in Byars v. United States, 273
U. S. 28.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

277 U. S.

versations between them upon any subject, and although
proper, confidential and privileged, may be overheard.
Moreover, the tapping of one man's telephone line involves the tapping of the telephone of every other person
whom he may call or who may call him. As a means
of espionage, writs of assistance and general warrants are
but puny instruments of tyranny and oppression when
compared with wire-tapping.
Time and again, this Court in giving effect to the principle underlying the Fourth Amendment, has refused to
place an unduly literal construction upon it. This was
notably illustrated in the Boyd case itself. Taking language in its ordinary meaning, there is no "search" or
"seizure" when a defendant is required to produce a
document in the orderly process of a court's procedure.
"The right of the people to be secure in their persons,
houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches
and seizures," would not be violated, under any ordinary
construction of language, by compelling obedience to a
subpoena. But this Court holds the evidence inadmissible simply because the information leading to the issue
of the subpoena has been unlawfully secured. Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385. Literally, there is no "search " or "seizure " when a friendly
visitor abstracts papers from an office; yet we held in
Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298, that evidence so
obtained could not be used. No court which looked at
the words of the Amendment rather than at its underlying purpos6 would hold, as this Court did in Ex parte
Jackson, 96 U. S. 727, 733, that its protection extended to
letters in the mails. The provision against self-incrimination in the Fifth Amendment has been given an equally
broad construction. The language is: "No person .
shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness
against himself." Yet we have held, not only that the

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

protection of the Amendment extends to a witness before
a grand jury, although he has not been charged with
crime, Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, 562, 586.
but that: "It applies alike to civil and criminal proceedings, wherever the answer might tend.to subject to criminal responsibility him who gives it. The privilege protects a mere witness as fully as it does one who is also a
party defendant.". McCarthy v. Arndstein, 266 U. S. 34,
40. The narrow language of the Amendment has been
consistently construed in the light of its object, "to insure
that a person should not be compelled, when acting as a
witness in any investigation, .to give testimony which
might tend to show that he himself had committed 'a
crime. The privilege is limited to criminal matters, but
it is as broad as the mischief against which it seeks, to
guard." Counselman v. Hitchcock, supra, ,p. 562.
Decisions of this Cpurt applying the principle of the
Boyd case have settled these things.. Unjustified search
and seizure violates the Fourth Amendment, whatever the
character of the paper; I whether the paper when taken
by the federal officers was in the home,' in an office 6 or
elsewhere; 7 whether the taking was effected by force,8 by
4

Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298.
*Weeksv. United States, 232 'U. S.383; Amos v. United States,
255 U. S. 313; Agnello v. United States,'269 U. S. 20; Byars v. Uitited
States, 273 U. S. 28.
6Boyd

v. United States, 116 U. S. 616; Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S.

43, 70; Silverthorne Lumber. Co. v. United ,States, 251 U. S. 385;
Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298; Marron v. United States, 275
U. S. 192.
7 Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727, 733; Carroll
v. United States, 267
U. S. 132, 156; Gambino v. United States, 275 U. S. 310.
8
Weeks v. United States, 232 U.. S. 383; Silverthorne Lumber Co.
v. United States, .251. U. S. 385; Amos v. United States, 255 _U. S.
313; Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S. 132, 156; Agnello v. United
States, 269 U. S. 20; Gambino v. United States, 275 U. S. 310.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BR unms, J., dissenting.

277 U. S.

fraud,9 or in the orderly process of a court's procedure. 10
From these decisions, it follows necessarily that the
Amendment is violated by the officer's reading the paper
without a physical seizure, without his even touching it;
and that use, in any criminal proceeding, of the contents
of the paper so examined-as where they are testified to
by a federal officer who thus saw the document or where,
through knowledge so obtained, a copy has been procured
elsewhere "1--any such use constitutes a violation of the
Fifth Amendment.
The protection guaranteed by the Amendments is much
broader in scope. The makers of our Constitution undertook to secure conditions favorable to the pursuit of happiness. They recognized the significance of man's spiritual
nature, of his feelings and of his intellect. They knew
that only a part of the pain, pleasure and satisfactions
of life are to be found in material things. They sought
to protect Americans in their beliefs, their thoughts, their
emotions and their sensations. They conferred, as against
the Government, the right to be let alone-the most comprehensive of rights and the right most valued by civilized
men. To protect that right, every unjustifiable intrusion
by the Government upon the privacy of the individual,
whatever the means employed, must be deemed a violation of the Fourth Amendment. And the use as evidence
9Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298.
10 Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616; Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S.
43, 70. See Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298; Byars v. United
States, 273 U S. 28; Marron v. United States, 275 U. S. 192.
11 Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385. Compare Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298, 307. In Stroud v. United
States, 251 U. S. 15, and Hester v. United States, 265 U. S. 57, the
letter and articles admitted were not obtained by unlawful search
and seizure. They were voluntary dislosures by the defendant.
Compare Smith v. United States, 2 F. (2d) 715; United States v. Lee,
274 U. S. 559.

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

BRANDEis, J., dissenting.

in a criminal proceeding, of facts ascertained by such intrusion must be deemed a violation of the Fifth.
Applying to the Fourth and Fifth Amendments the
established rule of construction, the. defendants' objections
to the evidence obtained by wire-tapping must, in my
opinion, be sustained. It is, of course, immaterial where
the physical connection with the telephone wires leading
into the defendants' premises was made. And it is also
immaterial that the intrusion was in aid'of law enforcement. Experience should teach us to be most on our
guard to protect liberty when the Government's purposes
dre beneficent. Men born, to freedom are naturally alert
to repel invasion of their liberty by evil-minded rulers.
The greatest dangers to liberty lurk in insidious encroachment by men of zeal, well-meaning'but wifhout understanding."2
Independently of the constitutional question, I am of
opinion that the judgment should be reversed. By the
laws of Washington, wire-tapping is a crime.13 Pierce's
12 The point is thus stated by counsel for the telephone companies,

who have filed a brief as amici curiae: "Criminals will not escape detection and conviction merely because evidence obtained by tapping
Wires of a public telephone system. is inadmissible, if it should be so
held; but, in any event, it is betteg that a few criminals escape than
that the privacies of life of allthe people be exposed to the agents of
the government, who will act at iheir own discretion, the honest and
the dishonest, unauthorized and unrestrained by the courts. Legislation making wire tapping a crime will not suffice if the courts nevertheless hold the evidence to be lawful."
Is In the following states it is a criminal offense to intercept a message sent by telegraph and/or telephone: Alabama, Code, 1923,
§ 5256; Arizona, Revised Statutes, 1913, Penal Code, § 692; Arkansas, Crawford & Moses Digest, 1921, § 10246; California, Deering's
Penal Code, 1927, § 640; Colorado, Compiled Laws, 1921, § 6969;
Connecticut, General Statutes, 1918, § 6292; Idaho, Compiled Statutes, 1919, §§ 8574, 8586; Illinois, Revised Statutes, 1927, c. 134, § 21;
Iowa, Code, 1927, § 13121; Kansas, Revised Statutes, 1923, c. 17,
§ 1908; Michigan, Compiled Laws, 1915, § 15403; Montana, Penal

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRANmms, J., dissenting.

277 U. S.

Code, 1921, § 8976(18). To prove its case, the Government was obliged to lay bare the crimes committed by
its officers on its behalf. A federal court should not permit such a prosecution to continue. Compare Harkin v.
Brundage, 276 U. S. 36, id. 604.
Code, 1921, § 11518; Nebraska, Compiled Statutes, 1922, § 7115;
Nevada, Revised Laws, 1912, §§ 4608, 6572(18); New York, Consolidated Laws, c. 40, § 1423(6); North Dakota, Compiled Laws, 1913,
§ 10231; Ohio, Page's General Code, 1926, § 13402; Oklahoma, Session
Laws, 1923, c. 46; Oregon, Olson's Laws, 1920, § 2265; South Dakota,
.Revised Code, 1919, § 4312; Tennessee, Shannon's Code, 1919, §§ 1839,
1840; Utah, Compiled Laws, 1917, § 8433; Virginia, Code, 1924,
§ 4477(2), (3); Washington, Pierce's Code, 1921, § 8976(18); Wisconsin, Statutes, 1927, § 348.37; Wyoming, Compiled Statutes, 1920,
§ 7148. Compare State v. Behringer,19 Ariz. 502; State v. Nordskog,
76 Wash. 472.
In the following states it is a criminal offense for a company engaged in the transmission of messages by telegraph and/or telephone,
or its employees, or, in many instances, persons conniving with them,
to disclose or to assist in the disclosure of any message: Alabama,
Code, 1923, §§ 5543, 5545; Arizona, Revised Statutes, 1913, Penal
Code, §§ 621, 623, 691; Arkansas, Crawford & Moses Digest, 1921,
§ 10250; California, Deering's Penal Code, 1927, §§ 619, 621, 639,
641; Colorado, Compiled Laws, 1921, §§ 6966, 6968, 6970; Connecticut, General Statutes, 1918, § 6292; Florida, Revised General Statutes,
1920, §§ 5754, 5755; Idaho, Compiled Statutes, 1919, §§ 8568, 8570;
Illinois, Revised Statutes, 1927, c. 134, §§ 7, 7a; Indiana, Bums' Revised Statutes, 1926, § 2862; Iowa, Code, 1924, § 8305; Louisiana,
Acts, 1918, c. 134, p. 228; Maine, Revised Statutes, 1916, c. 60, § 24;
Maryland, Bagby's Code, 1926, § 489; Michigan, Compiled Statutes,
1915, § 15104; Minnesota, General Statutes, 1923, §§ 10423, 10424;
Mississippi, Hemingway's Code, 1927, § 1174; Missouri, Revised Statutes, 1919, § 3605; Montana, Penal Code, 1921, § 11494; Nebraska,
Compiled Statutes, 1922, § 7088; Nevada, Revised Laws, 1912,
§§ 4603, 4605, 4609, 4631; New Jersey, Compiled Statutes, 1910, p.
5319; New York, Consolidated Laws, C.40, §§ 552, 553; North Carolina, Consolidated Statutes, 1919, §§ 4497, 4498, 4499; North Dakota, Compiled Laws, 1913, § 10078; Ohio, Page's General Code, 1926,
§§ 13388, 13419; Oklahoma, Session Laws, 1923, c. 46; Oregon, Olson's
Laws, 1920, §§ 2260, 2262, 2266; Pennsylvania, Statutes, 1920, §§ 6306,

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

Bi mms, J., dissenting.

The situation in the case at bar differs widely from that
presented in Burdeau v. McDowell, 256 U. S. 465. There,
only a single lot of papers was involved. Theyhad been
obtained by a private detective while acting on behalf
of a private party; without the knowledge of any federal
official; long before anyone had thought of instituting a
6308, 6309; Rhode Island, General Laws, 192 3 , § 6104; South Dakota,
Revised Code, 1919, §§ 4346, 9801; Tennessee, Shannon's Code, 1919,
§§ 1837, 1838; Utah, Compiled Laws, 1917, §§ -8403, 8405, 8434;
Washington, Pierce's C6de, 1921, §§ 8982, 8983, Wisconsin, Statutes,
1927, § 348.36.
The Alaskan Penal- Code, Act of March 3, 1899,- c. 429, 30 Stat.
1253, 1278, provides-that "if any officer, agent, operator, clerk, or
employee of any telegraph company, or any other person, shall wilfully divulge to any other person than the party from whom the
same was received, or-to whoi the same was addressed, or his agent
or attorney, any message received or sent, or intended to be sent, over
any telegraph line, or the-contents, substance, purport, effect, or
meaning of iiuch message, or any -part thereof, .
. the person
so offending shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed one 'thousand dollars or imprisonment not to exceed one year, or by both such fine and imprisonment,
in the discretion-of the court."
The Act of October 29,1918, c..197, 40 Stat. 1017, provided: "That
whoever during the period of governmental operation of the telephone
and telegraph systems of the United States

.

. . shall, without

authority and without the knowledge and consent of the other -users
thereof, except as may be necessary for operation of the service, tap
any telegraph or telephone line, or wilfully interfere with the operation of such telephone and telegraph systems or with the transmission
of any telephone or telegraph message, or with the delivery of any
such message, or whoever being employed in any such telephone or
telegraph service shall divulge the contents of any such telephone or
telegraph message to any person not duly authorized to receive the
same, shall be fined not exceeding $1,000 or imprisoned for not more
than one 'year, or both."
The Radio Act, February 23, 1927, c. 169- § 27, 44 Stat-1162, 1172,
provides that "no person not being authorized by the sender shall
intercept any message and divulge or publish the-contents, substance,
purport, effect, or meaning of such intercepted.mwsage to any person"

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRANDEis, J., dissenting.

277 U. S.

federal prosecution. Here, the evidence obtained by crime
was obtained at the Government's expense, by its officers,
while acting on its behalf; the officers who committed
these crimes are the same officers who were charged with
the enforcement of the Prohibition Act; the crimes of
these .officers were committed for the purpose of securing
evidence with which to obtain an indictment and to secure
a conviction. The evidence so obtained constitutes the
warp and woof of the Government's case. The aggregate
of the Government evidence occupies 306 pages of the
printed record. More than 210 of them are filled by
recitals of the details of the wire-tapping and of facts
ascertained thereby." There is literally no other evidence
of guilt on the part of some of the defendants except that
illegally obtained by these officers. As to nearly all the
defendants (except those who admitted guilt), the evidence relied upon to secure a conviation consisted mainly
of that which these officers had so obtained by violating
the state law.
As Judge Rudfcdn said below: "Here we are concerned
with neither eavesdroppers nor thieves. Nor are we concerned with the acts of private individuals.

.

.

.

We

are concerned only with the acts of federal agents whose
powers are limited and controlled by the Constitution of
the United States." The Eighteenth Amendment has not
in terms empowered Congress to authorize anyone to violate the criminal laws of a State. And Congress has never
purported to do so. Compare Maryland v. Soper, 270
U. S. 9. The terms of appointment of federal prohibition
agents do not purport to confer upon them authority to
violate any criminal law. Their superior officer, the Secretary of the Treasury, has not instructed them to commit
14

The above figures relate to Case No. 493. In Nos. 532-533, the
Government evidence fills 278 pages, of which-140 are recitals of the
evidence obtained by wire-tapping.

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

483

BRANDms, J., dissenting.

crime on behalf of the United States. It may be assumed
that the Attorney General of the United States did not
give any such instruction."
When these unlawful acts were committed, they were
crimes only of the officers individually. The Government
was innocent, in legal contemplation; for no federal official
is authorized to commit a.crime on its behalf.- When the
Government, having full knowledge, sought, through the
Department of Justice, to avail itself of the fruits of these
acts in order to accomplish its own endsj it assumed moral
responsibility for the officers' crimes. Compare The
Paquete Habana,189 U. S. 453, 465; O'Reilly deCamara
v. Brooke, 209 U. S. 45, 52; Dodge v. United States, 272
U. S. 530, 532; Gambino v. United Statps, 275 U. S.310.
And if this Court should permit the Government, by
means of its officers' crimes, to effect its purpose of punishing the defendants, there would seem to be present all
the elements of a ratification. If so, the Government itself would become a lawbreaker.
Will this Court by sustaining the judgment below sanction-such conduct on the part of the Executive? The governing principle has long been settled. It is that a court
will not redress a wrong when he who invokes its aid
has unclean hands." The maxim of unclean hands comes
15 According to the Government's brief, p._41; "The Prohibition
Unit of the Treasury disclaims it [wire-tapping] and the Department

of Justice has frowned on it." See also "Prohibition Enforcement,"
69th Congress, 2d Session, Senate Doc. No. 198, pp. IV, v, 13, 15;
referred to Committee, January 25, 1927; also Same, Part 2.
16

See Hannay v. Eve, 3 Cranch, 242, 247; Bank of the United

States v. Owens, 2 Pet. 527, 538; Bartle v. Coleman, 4 Pet. 184, 188;
Kennett v. Chambers, 14 How. 38, 52; Marshallv. Baltimore & Ohio
R. R. Co., 16 How. 314, 334; Tool Co. v. Norris, 2 Wall.45, 54; The

Ouachita Cotton, 6, Wall. 521, 532; Coppell v. Hall, 7 Wall. 542; Forayth v. Woods, 11 Wall. 484;46; Hanauer v. Doane, 12 Wall. 342,
349; Trist v. Child, 21 Wall. 441, 448; Meguire v. Corwine, 101 U. S.
.108, 111; Qscanyan v. Arms Co., 103 U. S. 261; Irwin v. Filliar,110

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRA~mIs, J., dissenting.

277 U. S.

from courts of equity.1 7 But the principle prevails also in
courts of law. Its common application is in civil actions
between private parties. Where the Government is the
actor, the reasons for applying it are even more persuasive. Where the remedies invoked are those of the criminal law, the reasons are compelling. 8
The door of a court is not barred because the plaintiff
has committed a crime. The confirmed criminal is as
much entitled to redress as his most virtuous fellow citizen; no record .of crime, however long, makes one an
outlaw. The court's aid is denied only when he who seeks
it has violated the law in connection with the very transaction as to which he seeks legal redress. 9 Then aid
is denied despitp the defendant's wrong. It is denied in
order to maintain respect for law; in order to promote
confidence in the administration of justice; in order to
preserve the judicial process from contamination. The
rule is one, not of action, but of inaction. It is sometimes
U. S. 499, 510; Woodstock Iron Co: v. Richmond & Danville Extension Co., 129 U. S. 643; Gibbs v. Consolidated Gas Co., 130 U. S. 396,
411; Embrey v. Jemison, 131 U. S. 336, 348; West v. Camden, 135
U. S. 507, 521; McMullen v. Hoffman, 174 U. S. 639, 654; Hazelton
v. Sheckells, 202 U. S. 71; Crocker v. United States, 240 U. S. 74, 78.
Compare Holman v. Johnson, 1 Cowp. 341.
17 See Creath'sAdministratorv. Sims, 5 How. 192, 204; Kennett v.
Chambers, 14 How. 38, 49; Randall v. Howard, 2 Black, 585, 586;
Wheeler v. Sage, 1 Wall. 518, 530; Dent v. Ferguson, 132 U. S. 50, 64;
Pope Manufacturing Co. v. Gormully, 144 U. S. 224, 236; Miller v.
Ammon, 145 U. S: 421, 425; Hazelton v. Sheckells, 202 U. S. 71, 79.
Compare InternationalNews Service v. Associated Press, 248 U. S.
215, 245.
18 Compare State v. Simmons, 39 Kan. 262, 264-265; State v. Miller,
44 Mo. App. 159, 163-164; In re Robinson, 29 Neb. 135; Harrisv.
State, 15 Tex. App. 629, 634-635, 639.
19See Armstrong v. Toler, 11 Wheat. 258; Brooks v. Martin, 2
Wall. 70; Planters' Bank v. Union Bank, 16 Wall. 483, 499-500;
Houston & Texas Central R. R. Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 66, 99;
Bothwell v. Buckbee, Mears Co., 275 U. S. 274.

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

BuTLER, J., dissenting._-

spoken of as a rule of substantive law. But it extends to
matters of procedure as well.20 A defense may be waived.
It is waived when not pleaded. But the objection that
the plaintiff comes with unclean hands will be taken by
the court itself.2 It will be taken despite the -wish to
the contrary of all the parties to the litigation. The court
protects itself.
Decency, security and liberty alike demand that government officials shall be subjected to the same rules of conduct that are commands to the citizen. In a government
of laws, existence of the government will be imperilled
if it fails to observe the law scrupulously. Our Government is the potent, the omnipresent teacher. For good
or for ill, it teaches the whole people by its example.
Crime is contagious. If the Government becomes a lawbreaker, it breeds contempt for law; it invites every man
to become a law unto himself; it invites anarchy. To declare that in the administration of the criminal law the
end justifies the means--to declare'that the Government
may commit crimes in order to secure the conviction of
a private criminal-would bring terrible retribution.
Againsf that pernicious doctrine .this Court should resolutely set its face.
MR.

JusTIcE

BuTLER, dissenting.

I sincerely regret that I cannot support the opinion and
judgments of the Court in these cases.
20

See Lutton v. Benin, 11 Mod. 50; Barlow v. Hall, 2 Anst. 461;
Wells v. Gurney, 8 Barn. & Cress. 769; Ilsley v. Nichols, 12 Pick. 270;
Carpenterv. Spooner, 2 Sandf. 717; Metcalf v. Clark, 41 Barb. 45;
Williams ads. Reed, 29 N. J. L. 385; Hill v. Goodrich, 32 Conn. 588;
Townsend v. Smith, 47 Wis. 623; Blandinv. Ostrander,239 Fed. 700;
Harkin v. Brundage, 276 U. S. 36, id., 604.
21
Coppell v. Hall, 7 Wall. 542, 558; Oscanyan v. Arms Co., 103
U. S. 261, 267; Higgins v. McCrea, 116 U. S. 671, 685. Compare
Evans v. Richardson,3 Mer. 469; Norman v. Cole, 3 Esp. 253; Northwestern Salt Co. v. Electrolytic Alkali Co., [1913] 3 K. B. 422-

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BumR, J., dissenting.

277 U.S.

The order allowing the writs of certiorari operated to
limit arguments of counsel to the constitutional question.
I do not participate in the controversy that has arisen
here as to whether the evidence was inadmissible because
the mode of obtaining it was unethical and a misdemeanor
under state law. I prefer to say nothing concerning
those questions because they are not within the jurisdiction taken by the order.
The Court is required to construe the provision of the

Fourth Amendment that declares: "The right of the
people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers and
effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall
not be violated." The Fifth Amendment prevents the
use of evidence obtained through searches and seizures in
violation of the rights of the accused protected by the
Fourth Amendment.
The single question for consideration is this: May the
Government, consistently with that clause, have its officers whenever they see fit, tap wires, listen to, take down
and report, the private messages and conversations transmitted by telephones?
The United States maintains that "The 'wire tapping'
operations of the federal prohibition agents were not a
'search and seizure' in violation of the security of the
' persons, houses, papers and effects' of the petitioners in
the constitutional sense or within the intendmdnt of the
Fourth Amendment." The Court, adhering to and reiterating the principles laid down and applied in prior
decisions * construing the search and seizure clause, in
substance adopts the contention of the Government.
The question at issue depends upon a just appreciation
of the facts.
Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727. Boyd v. United States, 116
U. S. 616. Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383. Silverthorne
Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385. Gonled v. tnited States,
255 U. S. 298. Amos v. United States, 255 U. S. 313.

OLMSTEAD v. UNITED STATES.
438

BUTLR,J., dissenting.

Telephones are used generally for transmission of messages concerning official, social, business and personal
affairs including communications that are private and
privileged-those between physician and patient, lawyer
and client, parent and child, husband and wife. The contracts between telephone companies and users contemplate the private use of the facilities employed in the
service. The communications belong to the parties between whom they pass. During their transmission the
exclusive use of the wire belongs to the persons served by
it. Wire tapping involves interference with the wire
while being used. Tapping the wires and listening in by
the officers literally constituted a search for evidence. As
the communications passed, they were heard and taken
down.
In Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, there was no
"search or seizure" within the literal or ordinary meaning of the words, nor was Boyd-if these constitutional
provisions were read strictly according to the letter-compelled in a "criminal case" to be a "witness" against
himself. The statute, there held unconstitutional because repugnant to the search and seizure clause, merely
authorized judgment for sums claimed by the Government
on account of revenue if the defendant failed to produce
his books, invoices and papers. The principle of that
case has been followed, developed and applied in this and
many other courts. And it is in harmony. vith the rule
of liberal oonstruction that always has been applied to
provisions of the Constitution safeguarding personal
rights (Byars v. United States, 273 U. S.28, 32), as well
as to those granting governmental powers. McCulloch
v. Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, 404, 406, 407, 421. Marbury
v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 153, 176. Cohens v. Virginia,
6 Wheat. 264. Myers v. United States, 272 U. S. 52.
This Court has always construed the Constitution in
the light of the principles upon which it was founded.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

277 U. S.

The direct operation or literal meaning of the words used
do not measure the purpose or scope of its provisions.
Under the principles established and applied by this
Court, the Fourth Amendment safeguards against all evils
that are like and equivalent to those embraced within the
ordinary meaning of its words. That construction is consonant with sound reason and in full accord with the
course of decisions since McCulloch v. Maryland. That
is the principle directly applied in the Boyd case.
When the facts in these cases are truly estimated, a fair
application of that principle decides the constitutional
question in favor of the petitioners. With great deference, I think they should be given a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I concur in the opinions of MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and
MR. JusTICE BRANDmis.

I agree also with that of MRi.

JUSTICE BUTLER so far as it deals with the merits. The
effect of the order granting certiorari was to limit the
argument to a single question, but I do not understand
that it restrains the Court from a consideration of any
question which we find to be presented by the record, for,
under Jud. Code, § 240(a), this Court determines a case
here on certiorari "with the same power and authority,
and with like effect, as if the cause had been brought
[here] by unrestricted writ of error or appeal."

KINNEY-COASTAL OIL COMPANY ET AL. v.
KIEFFER ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 64. Argued October 25, 1927 -Decided

June 4, 1928.

1. The Acts of July 17, 1914, 38 Stat. 509, and February 25, 1920,
41 Stat. 437, read together, disclose an intention to divide public
oil and gas lands affected into two estates for the purposes of dis-

