160

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

STANDARD PIPE LINE COMPANY v. MILLER
COUNTY HIGHWAY & BRIDGE DISTRICT
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT

No. 577.

Argued April 20, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.

The part of an interstate oil pipe line which traversed a special road
improvement district, and which was constructed at less than $9,000
per mile, was taxed for benefits at $5,000 per mile, though the
benefit that it actually received from the road, if any, was small.
Held that the assessment was arbitrary and unreasonable in amount.
P. 162.
19 F. (2d) 3, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

275 U.

S. 520, to a decree of the Circuit

Court of Appeals, which reversed a decree of the District
Court enjoining the collection of a special improvement
tax.
Mr. Win. H. Arnold, with whom Messrs. T. M. Milling,
W. H. Arnold, Jr., and David C. Arnold were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Henry Moore, Jr., for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE McRFYNOLDS announced the opinion of
the Court.
This suit, begun in the United States District Court,
Western District of Arkansas, May 21, 1924, seeks an
injunction to restrain the Miller County Highway &
Bridge District from attempting to collect road improvement taxes upon petitioner's property.
Apparently, petitioner-complainant in the original
bill-owns twenty-five miles of pipe, laid in two parallel
and adjacent lines through respondent District used for
interstate transportation of oil; also, for use in connec-

STANDARD PIPE LINE v. HIGHWAY DIST. 161
160

Opinion of the Court.

tion therewith, some miles -,of telegraph and otelephone
wire, of small value, strung upon leased poles. The total
average original cost of the pipe lines (constructed partly
in 1909 and partly in 1915) was less-than7 $9,000 per mile.
The officers of the District seem to have assessd -benefits
to be received by all this property from proposed improvements to highways at $60,000. Claiming that the
assessment was -"wholly unwarranted,* unlawful, grossly
disproportionate and palpably arbitrary and in discrinination against the property," the bill asked for an injunc-.
I.
tion, etc.
After answer much proof was taken. The 'District
Court made-the following findings of fact and law1. That the construction of the highway has not added
anything and will add nothing to the value of the property
of plaintiff taxed for its construction and maintenance.
2. The construction of the highway of defendant has
not added and will not add anything to the revenue which
ig obtained by plaintiff by the transportation of oil through
its pipe lines.
3. The levy-of a tax of $5,000.00 'a mile upon plaintiff's
right of way, the pipe line and :telegraph and telephone
wires and lines in the Miller County Highway and Bridge
District, is not laid upon -the same plan that is followed
with regard to other lands in the district.
4. The levy of $5,000.00 a mile is palpably arbitrary.
5. The alleged benefit to plaintiff's property by the construction of the highway is:spe~ulative and conjectural.
6. Plaintiff is not estopped.'from maintaining this suit.
7. The Act of the Legislature of Arkansas purporting to
validate generally the levy of the tax made by the defendant upon the property in the District is not effective to
validate the levy upon plaintiff's right of way and pipe
lines, because as to plaintiff's property, such levy is
arbitrary.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927..
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

And upon these findings it ordered an injunction as
prayed.
The Circuit Court of Appeals rendered a written opinion April 18, 1927, wherein it held that the pipe lines were
real property subject to assessment for benefits like other
realty, and that the evidence indicated petitioner's lines
received some benefit from the improved highways. Also
"That the procedure by which the value of the particular
property of the appellee was arrived at and the amount
of the benefits determined, does not commend itself to
us as altogether fair, nor is the tax imposed against appellee entirely equitable as between it and other property
owners within the district; but this, standing alone, is not
decisive of the question." After citing a number of cases
decided here and in the lower federal courts it further
said--" The tendency of these very late*authorities is to
greatly narrow the constitutional grounds of objection to
assessments of this character. They forbid us to weigh
the benefits against the burdens, and require us to hold
in the instant case that under all the circumstances there
was sufficient justification for the legislative determination that appellee's property was benefited." It made no
ruling upon the claim set up by the District that as petitioner had failed to avail itself of the appeal to Commissioners, provided by the statute, it could not maintain
the bill.
While it may be that the pipe lines received some
small benefit from the road improvements, we regard the
assessment actually made against them as arbitary and
unreasonable in amount.
The Circuit Court of Appeals announced its conclusion
without knowledge of our opinion in Road Improvement District No. 1, etc. v. Missouri Pacific R. R. Co.,
274 U. S. 188. Its opinion indicates that if our views
there stated had been known, a different conclusion
might have been reached. In the circumstances, it seems

STANDARD PIPE LINE v. HIGHWAY DIST.
160

163

Opinion of the Court.

best to reverse the'challenged decree and remand the
cause to the Circuit Court of Appeals for a new hearing, as though upon the original appeal; and for such
other action as may be necessary properly to protect the
rights of the parties.
Reversed.
SPROUT v. CITY OF SOUTH BEND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIANA.

No. 208. Submitted January 20, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
Plaintiff in error operated a motor bus for passengers between a city
in Indiana and points in Michigan. He required all passengers
from the city to pay fare to Michigan, but habitually allowed
those desiring to do. so to alight in the suburbs short of the state
line. He objected to an ordinance of the city which forbade operation of motor buses in the city streets unless licensed by the city
and which conditioned the issuance of licenses upon payment of a
fee adjusted to the seating capacity of the bus-in his case $50and upon the filing of a contract of liability insurance, to be furnished by a corporation authbrized to do business in the State,
covering damages to property or persons from negligent operation
of the bus within the city. Held1. The requirement that the insurance must be by a company
authorized to do business in Indiana did not violate the rights of
the plaintiff in error under the Fourteenth Amendment, because
it was reasonable as applied to his case. P. 167.
2. Objection that this requirement discriminates against insurance companies not authorized to do business in Indiana is not open
to plaintiff in error. Id.
3. The suburban traffic was not interstate commerce, since the
destination intended by the passenger when he begins his journey
and known to* the carrier, determines the character of the com.7
merce. P. 168.
4. As respects the-interstate commerce, the license fee cannot, be
sustained as one exacted to defray expenses of regulating traffic for
the public safety and convenience, it not appearing that such fees
were imposed or applied for that purpose, or that the amount collected was no more than was reasonably required for it. P. 169,

