B. & 0. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
274

Syllabus.

Court is without constitutional power to review such
judgments of state courts when they involve a federal
question. Compare Fidelity National Bank & Trust Co.
v. Swope, 274 U. S. 123, 130-134. "It is not the habit of
the court to decide questions of a constitutional nature
unless absolutely necessary to a decision of the case."
Burton v. United States, 196 U. S. 283, 295. See Blair v.
United States, 250 U. S. 273, 279; Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., 220 U. S. 107, 177; Light v. United States, 220 U. S.
523, 538. There is certainly no "case or controversy"
before us requiring an opinion on the power of Congress
to incorporate the declaratory judgment into our federal.
jurisprudence. And the determination now made seems
to me very similar itself to a declaratory judgment to the
effect that we could not constitutionally be authorized to
give such judgments-but is, in addition, prospective,
unasked, and unauthorized under any statute.
BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 404. Argued April 11, 1928.-Decided May 21, 1928.
1. Western railroads with termini at St. Louis' (the "west-side"
roads) exchanged traffic with railroads east of the Mississippi
(the " ast-side" roads) by means of a terminal company owned
jointly or controlled by appellants and appellees. (See Terminal
R. R. Ass'n v. United States, 266 U. S. 17.) In order to meet
the competition on through freight of the Chicago and Alton
and other western railroads which reached East St. Louis by
means of independent crossings, the "west-side" roads had long
made the same rates on that point as on St. Louis, absorbing the
Terminals transfer charges on west-bound as well as east-bound
traffic. The "east-side" roads bore no part of such charges and
where, as in most cases, their St. Louis and East St. Louis rates

were the same, they were limited by appropriate tariff provisions

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

277 U. S.

to East St. Louis as applied to through traffic moving on combination rates. On complaint of the "west-side" roads, the Interstate Commerce Commission ordered the "east-side" roads in
the future to bear or absorb all the transfer charges on all westbound traffic moving on combination rates, which were the same
on St. Louis as on East St. Louis, holding the existing arrangement
to be an unjust and unreasonable "practice," under § 1 (6) and
(11) and § 15 (1) of the Act to Regulate Commerce, although
there was no question concerning the furnishing of facilities or
the handling of traffic, and no proof that the complainants justly
should not bear the burden of transfer in both directions, like
their competitors. Held, that the order could not be sustained.
Pp. 294-302.
2. The term "practice" in the Act to Regulate Commerce, owing
to its wide and variable connotations, should be confined to acts
or things belonging to the same general class as those meant by
the words associated with it in the statute. P. 299.
3. Semble that "practice," as used in § 1 (6), (11), and § 15 (1)
of the Act, does not include or refer to the method or basis used
by connecting carriers for the division of revenues, whether the
revenues be derived from joint rates or from combination through
rates. P. 300.
4. Even if the above-described arrangement by which the "westside" roads bear the transfer charges on west-bound as well as
east-bound through traffic moving on combination rates were a
"practice," the Commission would not be authorized to set it
aside without adequate evidence that it is unjust or unreasonable.
Id.
5. Proof of a practice among carriers whereby the delivering carrier
bears the cost of switching when interchange is effected by means
of an intermediate carrier, did not tend to prove that the arrangement complained of in this case was unjust or unreasonable. P. 301.
6. In determining the reasonableness of the apportionment of revenues derived from combination rates, the same considerations
apply as govern the divisions of joint rates under § 15 (6) of the
Act. Id.
Reversed.

APPFA from a decree of the District Court dismissing,
for want of equity, a suit to set aside an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission.

B. & 0. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
291

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Morison R. Waite, with whom Messrs. D. P. Con-.
nell, Homer T. Dick, W. A. Northcutt, Guernsey Orcutt,
Charles J. Rixey, Louis H. Strasser, W. J. Stevenson,
Elmer A. Smith and Frank H. Towner were on the brief,
for appellants.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline,Assistant to the Solicitor General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Mr. P. J. Farrellwas
on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. M. G. Roberts, with whom Messrs. Joseph M. Bryson, W. F. Dickinson, Edward J. White, E. T. Miller, C. .3.
Burg, Wallace T. Hughes and H. H. Larimore were on the
brief, fo 'the Western Carriers, Appellees.
MR. JUSTICE Bu mF delivered the opinion of the Court.
The appellants,' for convenience called the east side
lines, brought this suit to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission in respect of charges for
transporting certain westbound through traffic from the
lines east of the Mississippi at East St. Louis to the lines
'Appellants are: The Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company; Wil-

Miam W. Wheelock and William G. Bierd, Receivers of the Chicago &
Alton Railroad Company; Chicago & Eastern Illinois Railway Company; The Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Railway
Company; Illinois Traction, Inc.; Illinois Central Railroad Company;
Litchfield & Madison Railway Company; Louisville & Nashville
Railroad Company; Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company; The New
York, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad Company; The Pennsylvania
Railroad Company; Southern -Railroad Company, and Wabash Railway Company.
Appellees are: The Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Company; Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad Company; Missouri Pacific

Railroad Company, and St. Louis-San Francisco Railway Company.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

west of the river at St. Louis. The Commission and the
carriers on whose complaint the order was made intervened. The district court, consisting of three judges
(U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 47) dismissed the case for want of
equity.
The order was made by the Commission after hearing
on the complaint of four west side lines. They alleged
that the practice of the east side lines requiring them to
bear the expenses of transporting westbound through
traffic across the river is unjust, unreasonable and illegal.
They made no complaint as to the eastbound traffic, but
they sought to be relieved from such charges on all the
westbound through business and prayed reparation on
account of such costs borne in the two years preceding
the complaint. The Commission filed a report which was
made a part of the order. 113 I. C. C. 681. It held-its
Chairman and two other members dissenting-that the
matter in controversy is a "practice" within the meaning of the Act. It found "that for the future the practice of the east side lines in requiring the west side lines
to bear the transfer charges on westbound freight traffic
moving through St. Louis and East St. Louis on combination rates which are the same on St. Louis as on East
St. Louis will be unjust and unreasonable, and that the
just and reasonable practice with respect to such traffic
will be for the east side lines to bear or absorb all such
transfer charges." The Commission was not convinced
that the aceptance by the west side lines of divisions of
joint rates did not constitute an acquiescence, tantamount
to an agreement on their part to pay a transfer charge on
through traffic moved on such rates. But it commended
to the carriers a careful study of the divisions of joint
rates on westbound traffic with a view to readjustment if
necessary to conform to the just and reasonable practice
in respect of interchange approved by the report. Reparation was denied.

B. & 0. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
291

295

Opinion of the Court.

The order 2 requires no change of divisions of revenues
derived from traffic moving on.-joint rates. It covers only
such of the westbound traffic as moves on combination
through rates. It shifts from the west side lines to the
carriers east of the river the burden of transferring that
freight from east to west across the river. No change is
ordered in the method of handling the traffic. No lack
of facilities for the through routes, § 1 (3) (4), or for
making the transfers, § 3 (3) was shown or found.
The appellants contend that the controversy involved
rates and divisions and not a "practice" within the meaning of the Act, and that the evidence before the Commission was not sufficient to support a finding that it is or
will be unjust or unreasonable to require the west side
lines to bear such transfer charges or to warrant the order.
2 '"It is

ordered, That the above-named defendants, according as

they partidpate in the transportation, be

.

.

.

required to cease

and desist, on or before October 12, 1926, and thereafter to abstain
from the practice of requiring the above-named complainants together
with the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company and the
Wabash Railway Company, to bear the charges for transfer services
from East St. Louis, Ill., to St. Louis, Mo., on westbound freight
traffic passing through both points on combination, rates which are
the same on St. Louis as on East St. Louis.
" It is further ordered, That said defendants, according as they
participate in the transportation, be,

.

.

. required to establish,

on or before October 12, 1926, upon notice to this commission and
to the general public by not less than 30 days' filing and posting in
the manner prescribed in section 6 of the interstate commerce act,
and thereafter to maintain and apply to the transportation of westbound freight traffic passing through both East St. Louis, Ill., and
St. Louis, Mo., on combination rates which are the same on St. Louis
as on East St. Louis, and delivered to complainants, or the Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company or the Wabash Railway
Company, the practice of bearing or absorbing on such traffic the
.charges for transfer services from defendants' lines in East St. Louis,
Ill., to the lines of complainants, or of the Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy Railroad Company or the Wabash Railway Company in
St. Louis, Mo."

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

The traffic at this crossing is very large. The railroad
lines of the east side carriers terminate on the east bank,
those of the appellee carriers on the west bank, and some
carriers have lines on both sides. All, or practically all,
of the traffic is handled for interchange between lines east
and lines west by the Terminal Railroad Association and
its subsidiaries. They are jointly owned or controlled
by appellant and appellee lines. The arrangements for
their use contemplate equal treatment of all carriers
served by them. The proprietary companies have trackage rights over the lines of the Association between St.
Louis and East St. Louis, but ordinarily they do not use
them. The average haul for transfer across the river is
about ten miles. The cost is higher than that attending
transportation for like distances under ordinary circumstances.
The transfer charges complained of were assumed by
appellee lines in order to enable them to compete with
other railroads west of the Mississippi River. At first
there was a separate rate or charge for the haul across
the river. But in 1877, the Chicago & Alton Railroad
Company built a line from the west across the Mississippi
at Louisiana, Missouri, to a junction with its north and
south line east of the river. That extension enabled it to
open a route from the west to East St. Louis and there
interchange with the east side lines. This competition for
the haul between East St. Louis and the territory west
of St. Louis compelled the four appellee lines to bear the
cost of transferring across the river all through traffic in
both directions. The Commission's report shows that now
five of the eight lines on the west side that serve St. Louis
also reach East St. Louis, and that three of them handle
freight traffic to points west of the river without taking
it through St. Louis. This is competition that must be
met-if they would participate in the business-by the
west side lines that reach East St. Louis only by means

B. & 0. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
291

Opinion of the Court.

of the facilities and services of the Association and its
subsidiaries. Since the Alton opened its route to the west,
the appellee lines have maintained the same rates from
and to East St. Louis as from and to St. Louis. And, about
1908, upon the insistence of the business interests of St.
Louis, the lines east of the river published and have since
maintained, with some exceptions that need not be specified, the same rates from and to St. Louis as from and
to East St. Louis. This was done by reducing the rates to
and from St. Louis and by advancing most of the rates to
and from East St. Louis. The decrease in revenue resuiting from the reductions was much greater than the
increase arising from the advances.
In 1905 the United States brought suit against the
Terminal Railroad Association, carriers involved-in this
controversy and others in the district court for the eastern
district of Missouri to prevent violations of the Sherman
Anti-trust Act. A final decree in favor of the United
States was entered in 1917 in accordance with the directions of this Court. 224 U. S.383, 236 U. S. 194. On
petition filed in that case by the appellee lines some years
after the final decree, the district court, February 8, 1923,
adjudged that in contempt of its decree the Association, its
subsidiaries and proprietary companies, had continuously
compelled the appellee lines to pay transfer charges for interchange between them and the east side lines on through
traffic in both directions. It. directed the east side lines
to cease such violations and to pay for the use of the west
side lines the total amount of the charges paid by the
latter for the transfer of westbbund through freight from
March 2, 1914, to the date of the order. The east side
lines and other companies so adjudged in contempt ap-pealed; and, on October 13, 1924, this Court held that
the original decree did not regulate rates, prescribe divisions of joint rates or fix liability for the transfer
charges; that contempt proceedings did not lie to de-

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

termine the controversy between the east side lines and
the west side lines or to require the former to make the
payments ordered. Terminal Railroad Ass'n v. United
States, 266 U. S.17, 29, et seq.
The Commission's report states that the question before
it was "whether the east side lines or the west side lines
should bear the expense incident to the transfer across the
Mississippi River from East St. Louis, Ill., to St. Louis,
Mo., of practically all carload and less-than-carload
through freight originating east of the St. Louis-East St.
Louis district and destined west thereof." And the thing
ordered by the Commission is the absorption by the east
side lines of the transfer charges on westbound through
traffic. It directed them to do exactly what the district
court required them to do except that the latter's decree
related to the past and the order of the Commission relates to the future. The matters in controversy in both
proceedings were purely financial. There was no question concerning furnishing of facilities or the handling of
traffic.
The larger part of the through traffic interchanged
through the East St. Louis-St. Louis gateway moves on
joint rates; and, for the purpose of divisions among participating carriers, these rates are deemed to "break" at
East St. Louis. Each is made up of an amount to cover
the part of the haul east of East St. Louis and an amount
to cover the movement between that place and points
west of St. Louis. The first amount goes to the lines
east and the other, less the transfer charge, goes to carriers west of the river. Through traffic not covered by
joint rates moves on through rates made up of combinations of local rates or local and proportional rates to
and from East St. Louis. Where the combination on St.
Louis is the same as on East St. Louis, the lines east of
the river, by appropriate tariff provisions, § 6 (1), make
their St. Louis-East St. Louis rates apply only to and from

1. & 0. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
291

Opinion of the Court.

East St. Louis. There are some exceptions, but they need
not be set forth here. So all the revenues yielded by
such rates, without deduction on account of charges for
transfer, are retained by the carriers in the territory east
of the river. But the Commission's order requires the
rates, so by tariff provisions limited to East St.. Louis, to
be extended to St. Louis. This operates to deduct the
cost of transfer from their revenue. In effect it is to
require the cancelation of such tariff provisions, and to
authorize a corresponding change in the tariffs of the
appellee lines. It results that the controversy before
the Commission involved divisions or apportionments of
revenues derived from through traffic.
In holding that the matter in controversy is a "practice" within the meaning of the Act, the Commission
relied on § 1 (6) and (11) and § 15 (1). Paragraph (6)
makes it the duty of carriers to establish just and reasonable regulations and practices affecting classifications,
rates or tariffs. Paragraph (11) requires them to furnish
an adequate car service and to establish just and reasonable rules, regulations and practices, and declares to be
unlawful every unjust and unreasonable rule, regulation
and practice in respect of car service. The phrase "car
service" is defined by paragraph (10) to include the exchange, interchange and return of locomotives, cars and
other vehicles and also the supply of trains used by any
carrier. Paragraph (1) of § 15 provides that whenever
the Commission shall be of opinion that any individual
or joint rate or classification, regulation or practice is or
will be unjust or unreasonable, the Commission may prescribe just and reasonable rates, classifications, regulations or practices.
The word "practice," considered generally and without
regard to context, is not capable of useful construction.
If broadly used, it would cover everything carriers are
accustomed to do. Its meaning varies so widely and de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court..

277 U. S.

pends so much upon the connection in which it is used
that Congress will be deemed to have intended to confine

its application to acts or things belonging to the same
general class as those meant by the words associated with
it. United States v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co., 242 U. S.
208, 229. When regard is had to that rule and the restrictions required to give the word a reasonable construc-

tion, it seems quite clear that " practice" as used in the
provisions relied on by the Commission, does not include
or refer to the method or basis used by the connecting
carriers for their divisions of rates or revenues. And this
is so whether the revenues are derived from joint rates
or from combination though rates.
But even if the matter in controversy were a "practice" within the meaning of the Act, the Commission
would not be authorized to set it aside without evidence

that it is unjust or unreasonable. Paragraph (6) of § 15
empowers the Commission to prescribe divisions of joint
rates, but there must be evidence adequate to justify
action. Brimstone Railroad& Canal Co., v. United States,
276 U. S. 104. United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry.
Co., 265 U. S. 274. New England Divisions Case, 261
U. S. 184. That rule may not be avoided by a broad construction of the word "practice." The record here contains all the evidence that was submitted to the Commission. Its report shows that "the propriety of divisimns was not the subject of inquiry and investigation."
The appellee lines adopted the policy of absorbing the
transfer charges in order to meet competition of the Alton
and have since continued to divide joint rates and apply
their St. Louis-East St. Louis rates in combination on that
basis. There is a strong presumption that the general
level of their rates has been adjusted to include reasonable compensation for the services covered by them. The
Commission found that appellee lines have long acquiesced

B. & 0. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
291

Opinion of the Court.

in the division of revenue derived from traffic moving on
joint rates. They have not, by tariff provisions or otherwise, attempted to limit to St. Louis their St. Louis-East
St. Louis rates when used in combination to move through
traffic. The Alton and other like competitors of appellee
lines bear the cost of the transfer across the river. The
order makes no change as to them. But it takes the corresponding costs off appellee lines and puts that burden
on the east side lines. The latter are required to absorb
the transfer cost only when the traffic moves over the
appellee lines.
The Commission appears to have relied on evidence
tending to show that, usually, when interchange is effected
by means of an intermediate carrier, the delivering carrier bears the cost of switching. But such a practice does
not tend to prove that it is unjust or unreasonable for the
appellee lines, in order to meet competition of other west
side lines, to bear the cost of transfer in both directions,
or that the east side lines may not justly and reasonably
limit their rates to East St. Louis when used in combination on through traffic at that gateway and so put appellee
lines on equal footing with their competitors. The same
considerations apply in determining the reasonableness of
the apportionment of revenues derived from combination
rates as govern the divisions of joint rates. The merits
of the changes made by the order cannot be determined
without a consideration of facts substantially similar to
those specified in paragraph (6) of § 15 relating to the
division of joint rates. The case was not presented by
complainants or considered by the Commission on that
basis. There was no evidence to show the amount of
revenue required to pay operating expenses, taxes and a
fair return on the property of appellee lines or that their
rates were not adjusted or were not sufficient to cover the
transfer charges in question, There was nothing to sup-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.

302

277 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

port a finding that it is or will be unjust or unreasonable
for the appellee lines to bear the cost of transfer of the
westbound through traffic. The order cannot be sustained. Florida East Coast Ry. v. United States, 234
U. S. 167. Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. United States, 238
U.S.. 1.
Decree reversed.

McCOY v. SHAW, STATE AUDITOR,

FT AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 403. Submitted April 9, 1928.-Decided May 21, 1928.
A suit to enjoin collection of a tax as violative of treaties between
the United States and the Chickasaw Indians and of certain Acts
of Congress, was dismissed by the state court upon the-ground that
there was a plain, adequate and exclusive remedy at law by paying
the tax under protest and suing for its recovery. Held that this
Court had no jurisdiction to review, as the judgment was put upon
an independent, non-federal ground, adequate to sustain it. P. 303.
Certiorari to 124 Okla. 256, dismissed.
CERIORARI, 275 U. S. 515, to a judgment of the Supreme Court of. Oklahoma, dismissing a suit to enjoin
collection of taxes.
Messrs. Robert M. Rainey, Streeter B. Flynn, Calvin
Jones and Jay W. Whitney were on the brief for petitioner.
Messrs. Edwin Dabney, Attorney General of Oklahoma,
and V. P. Crowe, Assistant Attorney General, were on the
brief for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
McCoy, the petitioner, a Chickasaw Indian of onefourth blood, brought this suit in equity in a state court

