LARSON CO. v. WRIGLEY CO.
88

Syllabus.

-

-

Instead, ii adopted. a statute-creating a liability only in
case the director assents to the deposit; and I.should have
supposed the liability of -the director imust be measured
by what the state has enacted and n6t by what it had the
power to enact, Under such a statute, without more, it
is perfectly plain that proof by the state of such assent
would be fiecessary. But here the state by legislative fiat
substituted for such proof on its part the prima facie presumption set forth. It was said that the bank was open
and doing business and that it is a reasonable presumption
from that fact that assent was given to the receipt of particular deposits. But we are dealing with a specific statutory provision and must take it as we find it; and by that
provision the general transaction of business by the bank
at the time it received the particular deposits is not made
the basis of the statutory presumption. If it were, a different question would be presented. Under these circumstances, as'it seems to me, the rule, requiring a rational
connectilon-between the fact proved and the ultimate fact
to be presumed therefrom, plainly applies; and- consequently the statutory provision in question is void.

MR . JusTicE BUTLER and

AIR. JUSTICE SANFORD concur

in this opinion.

L. P. LARSON, JR., COMPANY v. WM. WRIGLEY,
JR., COMPANY
CERTIORARI'TO THE CIRC.UIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT

No. 603. Argued April 26, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
Upon an -accounting of net profits derived from sales-of goods in
packages simulating those of a competitor, the defendant, if the
infringement was conscious and deliberate, is not entitled to deduct
the federal income and excess profits taxes. P. 99.
. ."
20 F. (2d) 830, reversed.

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1-927.
Argument for Respondent.

277 U. S.

CwRtIORARI, 275 U. S. 521, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, approving in the main, but remanding
for the making of certain deductions, a decree of the
District Court for net profits on an accounting in a suit
for unfair competition. The only question upon which
certiorari was allowed, was whether federal income and
excess profits taxes should be deducted. See also 253
Fed. 914; 275 Id. 535; 5 F. (2d) 731, 739; 248 U. S. 580.

Messrs. Charles A. Aldrich and George I. Haight, with
whom Messrs. Chester D. Kern, Ralph L. Peck, and
Charles R. Aldrich were on the brief, for petitioner.
The remedy of the Wrigley Company for the recovery
of taxes paid by it is provided by statute and this remedy
is exclusive.
The action of the Court of Appeals deprives petitioner
of its opportunity to use the special remedies provided by
Congress in its system of corrective justice. It is opposed
to the statute, the rules and regulations thereunder, and
to the holdings of this court.
Income and excess profits taxes are an excise tax upon
respondent's doing of corporate business and are not deductible under principles of equitable accounting in determining the profits awarded petitioner.
The action of the Circuit Court of Appeals in deducting
the excess profits and income taxes paid by respondent on
account of the infringing business, will result in a wrongful double taxation of petitioner, and is otherwise unconscionable and contrary to well-established legal principles.
Mr. Isaac I. Mayer, with whom Mr. Wallace R. Lane
was on the brief, for respondent.
In ascertaining the net profits of an infringer, the federal income and excess profits taxes paid by him are
deductible like any other expense necessarily incurred in
the conduct of the infringing business. Ga ieston Electric Co. v. Galveston,258 U. S. 388; Sly Mfg. Co. v. Pang-

LARSON CO. v. WRIGLEY CO.
97

Opinion of the Court.

born Corp'n, 276 Fed. 971, affirmed, 284 "Fed.217; MacBeth-Evans Glass Co. v. Smith Glass Co., 23 F. (2d) 459;
Ransome Machinery Co. v. Moody, 282. Fed. 29; Neeson
v. Sangamon7 County Mining Co., 316 Ill. 397; Kaufman
v. Bowers, 11 F. (2d) 662; Malleable Iron Range Ca. v.
United States, 62 Ct. Cls. 425, certi6rari granted, 273
U. S. 688.
Respondent should be allowed to deduct the amount of
federal taxes whidh it' actually paid on the infringing
profits.
MR. JusTICE HoLMES delivered the opihion of the Court.

There has been iong litigation between' the parties in
this suit, the last stage of which appears in 20 F. (2d)
830. The Wrigley Company. was ordered to account for
net profits on sales of its 'Doublemint' gum in a package
dress that infringed the Larson Company's 'Wintermint?
gum package. During the accounting, questions arose that
were decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals. To review
one of these questions a writ of certiorari was granted by
this Court. That question is whether, as held below with
modifications thit need not be mentioned, the Wrigley
Company should be allowed to deduct the federal income
and excess profits taxes from the profits with which it is
to be charged.
No doubt there are cases in which guch a deduction
would be proper. -But the question -cannot be answered
by the merely formal reply that if the Larson Company
chooses to make the Wrigley Company its agent or trustee
ex maleficia and to demand the profits made by the agent
it must take the burden with the benefit and 'can have no
more than the agent made in fact. To call the infringer
an -agent or trustee is not to state a fact but merely to
indicate a mode of approach and an' imperfect analogy by
which the wrongdoer will be made to' hand ove' the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

277 U. S.

ceeds of his wrong. Circumstances will affect the conclusion, including in them the knowledge and the conduct
of the party charged. It would be unjust to charge an
infringer with the gross amount of his sales *ithout allowing him for the materials and labor that were necessary
to produce the things sold, but it does not follow that he
should be allowed what he paid for the chance to do what
he knew that he had no right to do. That is the position
of the Wrigley Company as we understand the findings
in the successive stages of this suit. 253 Fed. Rep. 914,
916. 275 Fed. Rep. 535, 537, 538. 5 F. (2d) 731, 739.
20 F. (2d) 830,. 831. Even if the only relief that the
Wrigley Company can get is a deduction from gross income when the amount of its liability is finally determined, the Larson Company will have to pay
a tax on
the Wrigley profits when it receives them, and in a case
of what has been found to have been one of conscious and
deliberate wrongdoing, we think it just that the further
deduction should not be allowed.
Decree as to allowance of federal taxes reversed.
KING MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. CITY

COUNCIL OF AUGUSTA

ET AL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 392. Argued March 12, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
1. In ยง 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, as amended by Act of February
13, 1925, which gives this Court jurisdiction to review 'the judg-

ments of state courts of last resort. in any case " where is drawn
in question the validity of a statute of any State on the ground of
its being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties or laws of the
United States, and the decision is in favor of its validity," the
words "statute of any State" are used in their larger sense, including every act, legislative in character, to which the State gives its
sanction, no distinction being made between acts of the state legislature and other exertions of the State's law-making power. P. 102.

