SPRINGER v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
183

Syllabus.

sary basis for the support of that invasion is wanting, the
action of the zoning authorities comes within the ban of
the Fourteenth Amendment and cannot be sustained.
Jud'ment reversed.

SPRINGER ET AL. v. GOVERNMENT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
AGONCILLO v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME) COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
Nos. 564 and 573.

Argued April 10, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.

1. Acts of the Philippine Legislature creating a coal company and
a bank, the stock of which is largely owned by the Philippine
government, provide that the power to vote the stock shall be
vested in a "Committee," in the one case, and in a "Board of
Control," in the other, each consisting of the Governor General, the
President of the Senate, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Held, that the voting of the stock in the election
of directors and managing agents of the corporations is an executive function, and that the attempt to repose it in the legislative
officers named violates the Philippine Organic Act. P. 199.
2. In the Philippine Organic Act, which divides the government into
three departments--legislative, executive, and judicial-the principle is implicit,- as it is in 'state and federal constitutions, that
these three powers shall be forever separate and distinct from
each other. P. 201.
3. This separation and the consequent exclusive character of the
powers conferred upon each of the three departments of the government, is basic and vital-not merely a matter of governmental
mechanism. Id.
4. It may be stated as a general rule inherent in the American
constitutional system, that, unless otherwise expressly provided
or incidental to the powers conferred, the legislature cannot exercise either executive or*judicial power; the executive cannot exercise either legislative or judicial power; and the judiciary cannot
exercise either executive or legislative power. Id.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

277 U. S.

5. Legislative power, as distinguished from executive power, is the
authority to make laws, but not to enforce them or to appoint
the agents charged with the duty of enforcing them. The latter
are executive functions. P. 202.
6. Not having the power of appointment, unless expressly granted
or incidental to its powers, the legislature cannot engraft executive
duties upon a legislative office, since that would be to usurp the
power of appointment by indirection. Id.
7. The appointment of managers (in this instance corporate directors) of property or a business in which the government is interested, is essentially an executive act which the legislature is without
capacity to perform, directly or through its members. P. 203.
8. Whether or not the members of the "board" or "committee" are
public officers in the strict sense, they are at least public agents
charged with executive functions and therefore beyond the appointing power of the legislature. Id.
9. The instances in which Congress has devolved on persons not
executive officers the power to vote in non-stock corporations
created for governmental purposes, lend no support to a construction of the Constitution which would justify Congressional legislation like that here involved, considering the limited number of
such instances, the peculiar character of the institutions. there dealt
with, and the contrary attitude of Congress towards governmentally
owned or controlled stock corporations. P. 204.
10. The powers here asserted by the Philippine Legislature are vested
in the Governor. General by the Organic Act; viz., by the provision
vesting in him the supreme executive power, with general supervision and control over all the departments and bureaus of the
government; the provision placing on him tlie responsibility for
the faithful execution of the laws; and the provision that all executive functions of the government must be directly under him
or within one of the executive departments under his supervision
and control. P. 205.
11. Where a statute contains a grant of power enumerating certain
things which may be done, and also a general grant of power
which, standing alone, would include those things and more, the
general grant may be given full effect if the context shows that
the enumeration was not intended to be exclusive. P. 206.
12. In § 22 of the Organic Act, the 'clause in the form of a proviso
placing all the executive functions directly under the Governor
General or in one of the executive departments under his direc-

SPRINGER v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
189

191

Argument for Petitioners.

tion and control, and the proviso preceding it which grants certain
powers to the legislature, are both to be construed as independent
and substaitive provisions. P. 207.
13. An inference that Congress has approved an Act of the Philippine
Legislature reported to it under § 10 of the Organic Act cannot
be drawn from the failure of Congress to exercise its power to
annul, reserved in that section, where the Act reported contravenes
the Organic Act and is therefore clearly Void. P. 208.
Affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 519, to two judgments of ouster
rendered by the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
in proceedings in the nature of quo warratto, which were
brought in that court by the Philippine Government
against the present petitioners, to test their right to be
directors in certain corporations described in the opinion.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. Jos6 A. Santos,
JamesRoss, Quintin Paredes,and Claro M. Recto were on
the briefs, for petitioners.
The voting power of the government-owned stock in
the National Coal Company is not an office, and all of
respondent's contentions as to an alleged invasion of the
Governor-General's asserted general power of appointing
persons to public office are, for that reason, quite beside
the point. Sheboygan County v. Parker, 3 Wall. 92;
United States v. Hatch, 1 Pin. (Wis.) 182; United States
v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385; United States v. Germaine, 99
U. S. 508; State v. Kennon, 7 Oh. ,St. 546; In the Matter
of Oaths, 20 Johnson, 492; Bank of the United States v.
PlantersBank, 9 Wheat. 904. This latter case has been
followed in Bank of Kentucky v. Wister, 3 Pet. 431;
Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky, 11 Pet. 323; Darringtonv.
Bank of Alabama, 13 How. '12; Curran v. Arkansas, 15
How. 304; Sloan Shipyards Corp'n v. U. S. Shipping
Board, 258 U. S. 549, and in other cases. C. & D. Canal
Co. v. United States, 250 U. S. 123; Shoemaker v. United
States, 147 U. S. 282.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioners.

277 U. S.

The Philippine Legislature has all general legislative
powers such as are exercised by States and Territories.
The voting of the government-owned stock is merely a
part of the machinery for the management of the corporation, and, under the Legislature's power to create corporations for the attainment of objects within its powers and
to provide for the organization of such corporations and
for their management, the Legislature may confer the
voting power of the corporate stock as it sees fit..
Congress has often created corporations to act for it in
the attainment of those objects that are within its powers
and has often given over the voting power in such corporations to persons other than executive officers of the
Government, or-what is the same thing where the corporations have been without capital stock-it has given
over the management of the corporations to such persons.
Examples of the latter sort are the Smithsonian Institution and the National Home for Disabled Soldiers.
A more frequently used extra-governmental means for
the attainment of Congressional objectives has been the
privately owned stock company, such, for example, as
those concerned in Californiav. PacificR. R. Co., 127 U. S.
1, and Luxton v. North River Bridge Co., 153 U. S. 525.
Plainly, corporations such as those involved in the two
foregoing cases exercise the functions that some executive
departments would exercise if Congress chose to "use its
sovereign powers directly." Yet, despite this fact and
despite the fact that such corporations are instruments
through which Congress exercises portions of its sovereign
power, it has nevertheless been usual to confide to the
private stockowners in such corporations the power of
control through the stock-voting power.
Government ownership, this Court has repeatedly held,
is insufficient to blur the corporate lines that separate such
corporations as that herein concerned from the government that has created them. Bank of the United States

SPRINGER v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
189

Argument for Petitioners.

v. Planters Bank, 9 Wheat. 904; Bank of Kentucky v.
Wister, 3 Pet. 431; Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky, 11 Pet.
324;, Darringtonv. Bank of Alabama, 13 How. 12; Curran
Y. Arkansas, 15 How. 304; Sloan Shipyards Corp'nv. U. S.
Shipping Board, 258 U. S. 549; United States v. Strang,
254 U. S. 491; Skinner & Eddy v. McCarl,275 U. S. 1.
Where the extra-governmental entity is chosen, the
cases indicate that insofar as the management of its corporate affairs is concerned, the corporation so created is in
the fullest degree a separate entity. The only blurring of
the corporate lines has been in the extension of governmental privileges and protection to such corporations.
Russel Motor Car Co. v. United States, 261 U. S: 514;
United States V. Walter, 263 U. S. 15; Clallam County v.
United States, 263 U. S. 341; U. S. Grain Corp'n v. Phillips, 261 U. S. 106; Emergency Fleet Corp'n v. Western
Union, 275 U. S. 415.
Conceding, arguendo, that the corporate entity of the
National Coal Company may be disregarded and that the
power of voting the government-owned stock may be regarded as a duty of caring for government property, that
voting power, as such a duty, is nevertheless properly confided to legislative officers.
It is well settled that under § 3 of Art. IV of the Constitution, neither the President nor the heads of any of the
executive departments have any powers in respect to the
use or disposal of public property apart from those given
them by Congress. Pan American Petroleum Co. v.
United States, 273 U. S. 456; Mammoth Oil Co. v. United
States, 274 U. S. 13; 'UnitedStates v. Hare, Fed. Cas. No.
15,303; Knote v. United States, 10 Ct. Cls. 397; Flores v.
United States, 18 Ct. Cls. 352; Lear v. United States, 50
Fed. 65; United States v. Nichol, Fed. Cas. No. 15,879.
The authority of Congress may be given either generally in reference to a class of'properties or specifically in
reference to a particular property, and Congress can with-

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1027.
Argument for Petitioners.

277 U. S.

draw a pending contest over the right of entry of public
lands from the jurisdiction of the land department and
itself determine the rights of the parties involved. Emblen v. Lincoln Land Co., 102 Fed. 559, affirmed, 184 U.
S. 660.
The powers of Congress in the care of government property are plenary. In that behalf the executive departments are no more than the agents or instrumentalities of
Congress. It is plain that the duty of caring for government property, far from being "surely executive," is, in
fact, legislative in character. The executive departments
ordinarily perform the detail of such care; but to Congress belongs the power of direction and such direction
may be as specific as Congress sees fit to make it.
While the constitutional provision is not of course directly applicable to the Philippine Legislature, it and the
decisions under it are important as showing the scope of
legislative power in respect of the care, management, use
and disposal of government property under the American
theory of government.
Officers of the National Coal Company are not officers
of the Philippine Government, and the fact that the
voting power of the government-owned stock is to be
exercised for the purpose, inter alia, of selecting such
officers, does not make that voting power a part of the
Governor-General's asserted power of appointing persons
to public office.
If voting the government-owned stock were an office,
the President of the Senate and Speaker of the House
of Representatives would be eligible to hold it.
The Governor-General of the Philippine Islands has
no general power of appointing persons to public office
and the alleged "offices" herein involved would not be
within the powers of appointment specifically given to
him under the Autonomy Act, even if they were prop-

SPRINGER v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
189

Argument for Respondent.

erly regarded as "offices" within the -meaning of that
Act.
The Philippine statutes here in question have received
the implied sanction of Congress and should not be disturbed. Clinton v. Englebrecht, 13 Wall. 434; Gromer
v. Std. Dredging Co., 224 U. S. 362; Tiaco v. Forbes, 228
U. S. 549; Chanco v. Imperial, 34 Phil. Rep. p29; United
States v. Bull, 15 Phil. Rep. 31; Baca v. Perez, 8 N. M.
187; Gallardo v. Porto Rico Rwy. Co., 18 F. (2d) 918;
Fajardo Sugar Co. v. Holcomb, 16 F. (2d) 92; Myers v.
United States, 272 U. S. 52; Binns v.. United States, 194
U. S. 486.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Messrs. Frederick C. Fisher, Win. Cattron Rigby, Hugh C. Smith,
Robert P. Reeder, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, John A. Hull, Judge Advocate General, U. S. A., and
Delfin Jaranilla,Attorney General of the Philippine Islands, were on the brief, for respondent.
The Acts of the Philippine Legislature, read in connection with other statutes relating to the Philippine National Bank, the National Coal Company, and corporations in general, have the effect of stripping the Governor
General of all direction or control over the Bank or Coal
Company and of vesting the direction of the management
and operation of those instituti6ns in representatives of
the two Houses of the Legislature selected by those
Houses. The President of the Senate and the Speaker
of the House' of Representatives are selected by those
bodies and hold office during their pleasure. They, in
turn, acting together on the so-called Board of Control,
elect and remove the managing directors and agents of
these corporations, and in the case of the Bank, they also
directly participate with those officers and agents in conducting the bank's affairs. The effect of these provisions

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Respondent.

277 U. S.

is that the majority in the Legislature, acting through
representatives doing their bidding, from day to day
direct and control the operations and management of
these institutions.
The selection and removal of the managing directors
and officers of corporations, a majority of the stock of
which is owned by the Government, and the direction of
the operations of those corporations through the exercise
of that power, are not legislative functions. They do not
constitute the making or repealing of laws or anything incidental to such legislative action. The voting of the
Government's stock is itself not legislative, and the depriving the Governor General of all control of the operations of these corporations is in direct violation of that
provision of the Organic Act contained in § 22, which provides that all executive functions must be under the Governor General or within one of the executive departments
under his supervision and control. It is not material
whether the relation of the Philippine Government to
these corporations is proprietary or sovereign, or whether
the corporations are engaged in performing sovereign governmental functions or conducting private business. The
power of the Philippine Legislature over matters in which
the Philippine Government acts in a proprietary capacity,
is legislative. It has no more power to exercise administrative or executive functions over proprietary interests
of the Government than it has over sovereign governmental functions, and the exclusion of the Legislature
from participation in administrative or executive functions, and the granting of those functions to the Governor
General and his subordinates, operate on all governmental
matters whether proprietary or sovereign.
If membership on 'the "Board of Control" or "Committee" is a separate post or position from that of Governor General or of President of the Senate or of Speaker

SPRINGER v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
189

197

Opinion of the Court.

of the House of Representatives, then the selection by the
Legislature or by either House of the persons to occupy
that position is beyond legislative power, because in itself
an executive act. If the functions to be exercised by
members of the Board of Control or Committee are executive or administrative in character, the selection of those
members is not a legislative act.
The ultimate question here is again whether voting the
stock and directing the affairs of these corporations are
executive functions, and it is not important whether the
position on the Board of Control or Committee is a separate office or post, or whether the Legislature has merely
added certain duties to those of the President of the
Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
It may not make appointments to executive or administrative positions, and it may not confer executive or administrative functions on legislative officials.
That Congress has not taken any action to affirmatively
annul these statutes is of no consequence. The power
reserved in the Organic Act to annul Acts of the Philippine Legislature, relates to valid Acts passed under authority of the Organic Act and consistent with it. It was
never contemplated that Acts of the Philippine Legislature, void because in conflict with the Organic Act, would
become valid unless their invalidity be reiterated by Congress within a reasonable time.
MR. JUSTICE SUERLAD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases, presenting substantially the same question,
were argued and will be considered and disposed of together.. In each case an action in the nature of quo warranto was brought in the court below challenging the
right to hold office of directors of certain corporations
organized under the legislative authority of the Philippine

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

Islands, No. 564 involving directors of the National Coal
Company and No. 573 involving directors of the Philippine National Bank.
The National Coal Company was created by Act 2705,
approved March 10, 1917, subsequently amended by Act
2822, approved March 5, 1919. The Governor-General,
under the provisions of the amended act, subscribed on
behalf of the Philippine Islands for substantially all of
the capital stock. The act provides: "The voting power
of all such stock owned by the Government of the Philippine Islands shall be vested exclusively in a committee,
consisting of the Governor-General, the President of the
Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives."
The National Bank was created by Act 2612, approved
February 4, 1916, subsequently amended by Act 2747,
approved February 20, 1918, and Act 2938, approved January 30, 1921. The authorized capital of the bank, as
finally fixed, was 10,000,000 pesos, consisting of 100,000
shares, of which, in pursuance of the legislative provisions, the Philippine Government acquired and owns
97,332 shares, the remainder being held by private persons. By the original act the voting power of the government-owned stock was vested exclusively in the GovernorGeneral, but by the amended acts now in force that power
was "vested exclusively in a board, the short title of which
shall be 'Board of Control,' composed of the GovernorGeneral, the President of the Senate, and the Speaker of
the House of Representatives." The Governor-General
was also divested of the power of appointment of the
President and Vice-President of the bank, originally
vested in him, and their election was authorized to be
made by the directors from among their own number.
Provision was also made for a general manager, to be
appointed or removed by the board of directors with the
advice and consent of the Board of Control. The manager was to be chief executive of the bank, with an annual

SPRINGER v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
189

199

Opinion of the Court.

salary to be fixed by the board of directors with the approval of the Board of Control. Further duties were conferred 'upon the Board of Control in connection with the
management of the bank which it does not seem neessary to set forth.
It is worthy of note that -this voting power has been
similarly devolved by the legislature in the case of at least
four other corporations: The National Petroleum Company, by Act 2814; The National Development Company,
by Act 2849; The National Cement Company, by Act
2855; and The National Iron Company, by Act 2862; and
the suggestion of the Solicitor General that this indicates
a systematic plan on the part of the legislature, to take
over, through its presiding officers, the direct control generally of nationally organized or controlled stock corporations would seem to be warranted.
In pursuance of the first quoted provision, petitioners
in No. 564 were elected directors of the National Coal
Company by a vote of the government-owned shares cast
by the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the
House; and in pursuance of the second quoted provision,
petitioners in No. 573 were elected directors of the
National Bank in the same way. The Governor-General,
challenging the validity of the legislation, did not participate in either election. While there are some differences between the two actions in respect of the facts, they
are differences of detail which do ,not affect the substantial question to be determined.
On behalf of the Philippine Government, respondent in
both cases, it is contended that he election of directors
and managing agents by a vote of the government-owned
stock was an executive function entrusted by the Organic
Act of the Philippine Islands to the Governor-General,
and that the acts of the Legislature divesting him of that
power and vesting it, in the one case, in a "board," and,
in the other, in a "committee," the majority of which in

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

each instance consisted of officers and members of the
Legislature, were invalid as being in conflict with the Organic Act. The court below sustained the contention of
the Government and entered judgments of ouster against
the petitioners in each case.
The Congressional legislation referred to as the "Organic Act" is the enactment of August 29, 1916, c. 416, 39
Stat. 545, which constitutes the fundamental law of the
Philippine Islands and bears a relation to their governmental affairs not unlike that borne by a state constitution to the state. The act contains a bill of rights, many
of the provisions of which are taken from the federal
Constitution. It lays down fundamental rules in respect
of taxation, shipping, customs duties, etc. Section 8 of
the act provides, "That general legislative power, except
as otherwise herein provided, is hereby granted to the
Philippine Legislature, authorized by this Act." And by
§ 12 this legislative power is vested in a legislature, to consist of two houses, one the senate and the other the house
of representatives. Provision is made (§§ 13, 14 and 17)
for memberships, terms and qualifications of the members
of each house. By § 21 it is provided "that the supreme
executive power shall be vested in an executive officer,
whose official title shall be 'The Governor" General of the
Philippine Islands.'" He is given "general supervision
and control of all of the departments and bureaus of the
government- in the Philippine Islands as far as is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act." He is made
"responsible for the faithful execution of the laws of the
Philippine Islands and of the United States operative
within the Philippine Islands." Other powers of an important and comprehensive character also are conferred
upon him. By § 22 the executive departments of the
Philippine government, as then authorized by law, are
continued until otherwise provided by the legislature.
The legislature is authorized by appropriate legislation to

SPRINGER v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
189

201

Opinion of the Court.

"increase the. number or abolish any of the- executive
departments, or make such changes in the names and
duties thereof as it may see fit," and" provide for the
appointment and removal of the heads of the executive
departments by the Governor General." Then follows
the proviso: "That all executive functions of the government must be directly under the Governor General or
within one of the executive departments under the supervision and control of the Governor General." Section 26
recognizes the existing supreme court and courts of first
instance of the Islands and continues their jurisdiction as
theretofore provided, with such additional jurisdiction, as
shall thereafter be prescribed by law.
Thus the Organic Act, following the rule established by
the American constitutions, both state and federal, divides the government into three separate departments-the legislative, executive and judicial. Some of our state
constitutions expressly provide in -one form or another
that the legislative, executive and judicial powers of the
government shall be forever separate and distinct from
each other. Other constitutions, including that of the
United States, do not contain such an express provision.
But it is implicit in all, as a conclusion logically following
from the separation of the several departments.. See Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, 190-191. And this
separation and the consequent exclusive character of the
powers conferred upon each of the three departments is
basic and vital-not merely a matter of governmental
mechanism. That the principle is implicit in the Philippine Organic Act does not admit of doubt. See Abueva
v. Wood, 45 Phil. Rep. 612, 622, 628 et seq.
It may be stated then, as a general rule inherent in the
American constitutional system, that, unless otherwise expressly provided or incidental to the powers conferred, the
legislature cannot exercise either executive or judicial
power; the executive cannot exercise either legislative or

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

judicial power; the judiciary cannot exercise either executive or legislative power. The existence in the various
constitutions of occasional provisions expressly giving to
one of the departments powers which by their nature
otherwise would fall within the general scope of the authority of another department emphasizes, rather than
casts doubt upon, the generally inviolate character of this
basic rule.
Legislative power, as distinguished from executive
power, is the authority to make laws, but not to enforce
them or appoint the agents charged with the duty of such
enforcement. The latter are executive functions. It is
unnecessary to enlarge further upon the general subject,
since it has so recently received the full consideration of
this Court. Myers v. United States, 272 U. S. 52.
Not having the power of appointment, unless expressly
granted or incidental to its powers, the legislature cannot
engraft executive duties upon a legislative office, since
that would be to usurp the power of appointment by indirection; though the case might be different if the additional duties were devolved upon an appointee of the
executive. Shoemaker v. United States, 147 U. S. 282,
300-301. Here the members of the legislature who constitute a majority of the "board" and "committee," respectively, are not charged with the perf6rmance of any
legislative functions or with the doing of anything which
is in aid of the performance of any such functions by the
legislature. Putting aside for the moment the question
whether the duties devolved upon these members are
vested by the Organic Act in the Governor-General, it is
clear that they are not legislative in character, and still
more clear that they are not judicial. The fact that they
do not fall within the authority of either of these two
constitutes logical ground for concluding that they do
fall within that of the remaining one of the three among

SPRINGER v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
189

203

Opinion of the Court.

which the powers of government are divided. Compare
Myers v. United States, supra, pp. 117-118.
Assuming, for present purposes, that the duty of managing this property, namely, the government-owned shares
of stock in these corporations, is not sovereign but proprietary in its nature, the conclusion must be the same. The
property is owned by the government, and the government in dealing with it whether in its quasi-sovereign -or
its proprietary capacity nevertheless acts in its governmental capacity. There is nothing in the Organic Act,
or in the nature of the legislative power conferred by it,
to suggest that the legislature in acting in respect of the
proprietary rights of the government may disregard the
limitation that it must exercise legislative and not executive functions. It must deal with the property of the
government by making rules, and not by executing them.
The appointment of managers (in this instance corporaie
directors) of property or a business is essentially an executive act which the legislature is without capacity to perform directly or through any of its members.
Whether the members of the "board" or the "committee" are public officers in a strict sense we do not
find it necessary to determine. They are public agents
at least, charged with the exercise of executive functions
and, therefore, beyond the appointing power of the legislature. Stockman v. Leddy, 55 Colo. 24, involved a case
very much like that now under consideration. The state
legislature had created a committee of its own members
to investigate the rights of the state in the flowing waters
therein. The committee was authorized to determine
what steps were necessary to be taken to protect the rights
of the state, to employ counsel, etc. There was no claim
that the investigation was for the.purpose of ascertaining facts to aid in future legislation or to assist the legislature in its legislative capacity, but it was for the pur-

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

pose of enabling the committee itself to reacl a conclusion as to what should be proper to do in order to protect
the rights of the state. The court, in holding the act unconstitutional, said (p. 31): "In other words, the general
assembly not only passed an act-that is, made a law-but
it made a joint committee of the senate and the house
as its executive agent to carry out that law. This is a
clear and conspicuous instance of an attempt by the
general assembly to confer executive power upon a collection of its own members." And the court held that this
was invalid under the provisions of the state constitution respecting the tripartite division of governmental
powers. See also, Clark v. Stanly, 66 N. C. 59; State ex rel.
Howerton v. Tate, 68 N. C. 546.
Petitioners seek to draw a parallel between the power of
Congress to create corporations as appropriate means of
executing governmental powers and the acts of the Philippine legislature here under consideration. To what extent the powers of the two bodies in this respect may be
assimilated we need not stop now to determine, since the
power of the legislature to create the two corporations
here involved is not doubted. But it is argued further
that Congress in creating corporations for governmental
purposes has sometimes devolved the voting power in
such corporations upon persons other than executive
officers. In the case .of the Smithsonian Institution, cited
as an example, Congress provided for a governing Board
of Regents composed in part of members of the Senate
and of the House. There are two or three other instances
in respect of non-stock organizations of like character.
On the other hand, as pointed out by the Solicitor General, in the case of governmentally organized or controlled
stock corporations, Congress has uniformly recognized
the executive authority in their management, -generally
providing in express terms that the shares shall be voted

SPRINGER v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
189

205

Opinion of the Court.

by an executive officer, and in no instance attempting to
grant such power to one or more of its members. Many
instances of this kind are cited by the Solicitor General,
but it is not necessary to repeat his enumeration. It is
enough to say that, when we consider the limited number
of acts of Congress which fall within the first class spoken
of above, as well as the peculiar character of -the institutions dealt with, and the contrary attitude of Congress
toward corporations of a different character, such acts cannot be regarded as lending support to a construction of the'
Constitution which would justify Congressional legislation like that here involved. As this Court said in Myers
v. United States, supra, pp. 170-171.
"In the use of Congressional legislation to support or
change a particular construction of the Constitution by
acquiescence, its weight for the purpose must depend not
only upon.the nature of the question, but also upon the
attitude of the executive and judicial branches of the
Government, as well as upon the number of instances in
the execution of the law in which opportunity for objection in the courts or elsewhere is afforded. When instances which actually involve the question are .rare, or
have not in fact occurred, the weight of the mere presence of acts on the statute book for a considerable time,
as showing general acquiescence in the legislative assertion of a questioned power, is minimized."
And we are further of the opinion that the powers asserted by the Philippine Legislature are vested by the
Organic Act in the Governor-General. The intent of
Congress to that effect is disclosed by the provisions of
that act already set forth. Stated concisely these provisions are: that the supreme executive power is vested
in the Governor-General, who is given general supervision
and control over all the departments and bureaus of the
Philippine government; upon him is placed the responsi-

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

bility for the faithful execution of the laws of the Philippine Islands; and, by the general proviso, already quoted,
all executive functions must be directly under the Governor-General or within one of the executive departments
under his supervision and control. These are grants comprehensive enough to include the powers attempted to be
exercised by the legislature by the provisions of law now
under review. Myers v. United States, supra.
It is true that § 21 contains a specific provision that
the Governor-General shall appoint such officers as may
now be appointed by the Governor-General, or such as
he is authorized by this act to appoint, or whom he may
hereafter be authorized by law to appoint: And it is said
that the effect of this is to confine the Governor-General's
powers of appointment within the limits of this enumeration. The general rule that the expression of one thing
is the exclusion of others is subject to exceptions. Like
other canons of statutory construction itis only an aid
in the ascertainment of the meaning of the law and must
yield whenever a contrary intention on the part of the
law-maker is apparent. Where a statute contains a
grant of power enumerating certain things which may be
done and also a general grant of power which standing
alone would include these things and more, the general
grant may be given full effect if the context shows that
the enumeration was not intended to be exclusive. See
for example, Ford v. United States, 273 U. S. 593, 611;
Portlandv. N. E. T. & Co., 103 Me. 240, 249; Grubbe v.
Grubbe, 26 Or. 363, 370; Swick v. Coleman, 218 Ill. 33, 40;
Lexington ex rel. v. CommercialBank, 130 Mo. App. 687,
692; McFarland v. M. K. & T. Ry. Co., 94 Mo. App.
336, 342.
Applying these principles, we are unable to accept the
contention that the enumeration here in question is exclusive in the face of the general provisions already
quoted and particularly of that one which declares that

SPRINGER v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
189

Opinion of the Court.

all executive functions are vested directly in the Governor-General or under his supervision and control. It is
true that this provision is in the form of a proviso, and
it is argued that it is, therefore, nothing more than a
definition by negation of 'the power given to the legislature in the same section. But an analysis of the section, which is reproduced so far as pertinent in the
margin,* shows, though not wholly beyond doubt, that
the power given to the legislature is itself a proviso. In
other words, both the grant of power to the legislature
and the grant of power to the Governor-General are in
form provisos to the general provisions of § 22 which
precede them. It is difficult to assign to either proviso
the general purpose of that form of legislation, which is
merely to qualify the operation of the general language
which preceeds it. We 'think rather that both provisos
are to be construed as independent and substantive provisions. As this Court has more than onc6 pointed out,
it is not an uncommon practice in legislative proceedings
to include independent pieces of legislation under the
Sec. 22. That, except as provided otherwise in this Act, the executive departments of the Philippine government shall continue as now
authorized by law until otherwise provided by the Philippine Legislature. When the Philippine Legislature herein provided shall convene and organize, the Philippine Commission, as such, shall cease
and determine, and the members thereof shall vacate their offices as
members of said commission: Provided, That the heads of executive
departments shall continue to exercise their executive functions until
the heads of departments provided by the Philippine Legislature pursuant to the provisions of this Act are appointed and qualified. The
Philippine Legislature may thereafter by appropriate legislation increase the number or abolish any of the executive departments, or
make such changes in the names and duties thereof as it may see fit,
and shall provide for the appointment and removal of the heads of
the executive departments by the Governor-General: Provided, That
all executive functions of the government must be directly under the
Governor General or within one of the executive departments under
the supervision and control of the Governor General .
.
*

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

head of provisos. See Georgia Banking Co. v. Smith, 128
U. S. 174, 181; White v. United States, 191 U. S. 545, 551;
Cox v. Hart, 260 U. S. 427, 435.
Finally, it is urged that since no action has been taken
by Congress under § 19 of the Organic Act, requiring all
laws enacted by the Philippine Legislature to be reported
to Congress, which reserves the power to annul them, the
legislation now under review has received the implied
sanction of Congress and should not be disturbed. Clinton v. Englebrecht, 13 Wall. 434, 446, is cited in support
of this contention. In that case jurors were summoned
into the legislative courts of the territory of Utah under
the provisions of acts of Congress applicable only to the
courts of the. United States. This Court held that the
jurors were wrongly summoned and a challenge to the
array should have been sustained. The Court, however,
proceeded also to examine the jury law enacted by the
territorial legislature, and declared it to be valid. In
the course of the opinion it was said that since the simple
disapproval by Congress at any time would have anulled
that law, it was not unreasonable to-infer that it was approved by that body. In the later case of Clayton v."Utah
Territory, 132 U. S.632, an act of the same territory providing for the appointment of certain officers, was held
to be void as in contravention of a provision of the territorial Organic Act vesting in the Governor the power to
appoint such officers. Dealing with the same point here
made, this Court said (p. 642):
"It is true that in a case of doubtful construction the
long acquiescence of Congress and the general government
may' be resorted to as some evidence of the proper construction, or of the validity, of a law. This principle is
more applicable to questions relating to the construction
of a statute than to matters which go to the power of the
legislature to enact it. At all events, it can hardly be admitted as a general proposition that under the power of

SPRINGER v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
189

HoLMEs and

BRANDEIS,

209

JJ., dissenting.

Congress reserved in the organic acts of the Territories to
annul the acts of their legislatures the absence of any
action by Congress is to be construed to be a recognition
of the power of the legislature to pass laws in conflict with
the act of Congress under which they were created."
The inference of an approval by Congress from its mere
failure to act at best rests upon a weak foundation. And
we think where the inference is sought to be applied, as
here, to a case where the legislation is clearly void as in
contravention of the Organic Act it cannot reasonably be
indulged. To justify the conclusion that Congress has
consented to the violation of one of its own acts of such
fundamental character, will require something more than
such inaction upon its part as really amounts to nothing
more than a failure affirmatively to declare such violation by a formal act.
Whether the Philippine Legislature, in view of the alternative form of the provision vesting all executive functions directly under the Governor-General or within one
of the executive departments under his supervision and
control, might devolve the voting power upon the head of
an executive department or an appointee of such head,
we do not now decide. The legislature has not undertaken to do so; and in the absence of such an attempt it
necessarily results that the power must be exercised directly by the Governor-General or by his appointee, since
he is the only executive now definitely authorized by law
to act.
The judgments in both cases are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES.

The great ordinances of the Constitution do not establish and divide fields of black and white. Even the more
specific of them are found to terminate in a penumbra
shading gradually from one extreme to the other. Property must not be taken without compensation, but with

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
HoLMEs and

BRANDEIS,

JJ., dissenting.

277 U. S.

the help of a phrase, (the police power) some property
may be taken or destroyed for public use without paying
for it, if you do not take too much. When we come to
the fundamental distinctions it is still more obvious that
they must be received with a certain latitude or our government could not go on.
To make a rule of conduct applicable to an individual
who but for such action would be free from it is to legislate-yet it is what the judges do whenever-they determine which of two competing principles of policy shall
prevail. At an early date it was held that Congress could
delegate to the Courts the power to regulate process,
which certainly is lawmaking so far as it goes. Wayman
v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 42. Bank of the United States
v. Halstead,10 Wheat. 51. With regard to the Executive,
Congress has delegated to it or to some branch of it the
power to impose penalties, Oceanic Steam Navigation Co.
v. Strhnahan, 214 U. S. 320; to make conclusive determination of dutiable values, Passavant v. United States,
148 U. S. 214; to establish standards for imports, Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; to make regulations
as to forest reserves, United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S.
506, and other powers not needing to be stated in further
detail. Houston v. St. Louis Independent Packing Co.,
249 U. S. 479. Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204
U. S. 364. Ex parte Kollock, 165 U. S. 526. Congress
has authorized the President to suspend the operation of
a statute, even one suspending commercial intercourse
with another country, Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, and
very recently it has been decided that the President might
be given power to change the tariff. J. W. Hampton, Jr.,
& Co.- v. United States, 276 U. S. 394. It is said that the
powers of Congress cannot be delegated, yet Congress has
established the Interstate Commerce Commission, which
does legislative, judicial and executive acts, only softened
by a quasi;makes regulations, IntermountainRate Cases,

SPRINGER v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
189

211

HoLmEs and BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

234 U. S. 476, 486, issues reparation orders, and performs
executive functions in connection with Safety Appliance
Acts, Boiler Inspection Acts, &c. Congress also has made
effective excursions in the other direction. It has withdrawn jurisdiction of a case after it has been argued. Ex
parteMcCardle, 7 Wall. 506. It has granted an amnesty,
notwithstanding the grant to the President of the power
to pardon. Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 601. A territorial legislature has granted a divorce. Maynard v.
Hill, 125 U. S. 190. Congress has declared lawful an
obstruction to navigation that this Court has declared
unlawful. Pennsylvaniav. Wheeling & Belmont Bridge
Co., 18 How. 421. Parallel to the case before us, Congress
long ago established the Smithsonian Institution, to question which would be to lay hands on the Ark of the Covenant; not to speak of later similar exercises of power
hitherto unquestioned, so far as I know.
It does not seem to need argument to show that however we may disguise it by veiling words we do not and
cannot carry out the distinction between legislative and
executive action with mathematical precision and divide
the branches into watertight compartments, were it ever
so desirable to do so, which I am far from believing that
it is, or that the Constitution requires.
The only qualification of such latitude as otherwise
would je consistent with the threefold division of power,
is the proviso in § 22 of the organic Act "that all executive
functions of the Government must be directly under the
Governor General or within one of the executive departments," &c. Act of August 29, 1916, c. 416, 39 Stat. 553,
U. S. C., Title 48, § 1114. That does not appear to me
to govern the case. The corporations concerned were
private corporations which the legislature had power to
incorporate. Whoever owned the stock, the corporation
did not perform functions of the Government. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
McRnYxoms, J., dissenting.

277 U. S.

would be plain if the stock were in private hands, and if
the Government bought the stock from private owners
the functions of the corporations would not be changed.
If I am right in what I have said I think that ownership
would not make voting upon the stock an executive function of the Government when the acts of the corporation
were not. I cannot believe that the legislature might not
have provided for the holding, of the stock by a board of
private persons with no duty to the Government other
than to keep it informed and to pay over such dividends
as might accrue. It is said that the functions of the
Board of Control are not legislative or judicial and therefore they must be executive. I should say rather that
they plainly are no part of the executive functions of the
Government but rather fall into the indiscriminate residue of matters within legislative control. I think it would
be lamentable even to hint a doubt as to the legitimacy of
the action of Congress in establishing the Smithsonian as
it did, and. I see no sufficient reason for denying the
Philippine legislature a similar power.
MR. JusTmcE BRANDEIS agrees with this opinion.
MR. JUsTICE MCREYNOLDS.

I think the opinion of the majority goes much beyond
the necessities of the case.
The "Organic Act" is careful to provide: "That all
executive functions of the government must be directly
under the Governor General or within one-of the executive departments under the supervision and control of tie
Governor General."
A good reason lies behind this limitation which does
not apply to our Federal or State governments. From
the language employed, read in the light of all the circumstances, perhaps it is possible to spell out enough to
overthrow the challenged legislation. Beyond that it is
unnecessary to go.

