424

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

277 U. S.

thereby exercised over them, did, in a very real and practical sense, employ these stocks as an instrumentality in
carrying on its business within Massachusetts-to the extent, at least, that the controlled activities and property
of the subsidiary corporations were within the State. Cf.
Edwards v. Chile Copper Co., 270 U. S. 452, 456. And
since the Massachusetts court did not determine whether
the value of the stock in the Lawrence Company attributable to that part of its business and property in other
States should have been deducted, for the reason that, as
to such overvaluation, if any, a different statutory remedy
was provided, we have no occasion to consider that
question.
It is said that under the Massachusetts statute the subsidiary corporations were subject to similar excises on
their own account, and therefore there will be what is
akin to double taxation. But we are not here concerned
with an excise tax on the subsidiary corporations and
need not consider its constitutional propriety either independently or in connection with the excise against the
petitioner.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS is of opinion that the effect
of the challenged judgment is to tax property beyond the
jurisdiction of Massachusetts, and that therefore it
should be reversed.

SISSETON AND WAHPETON BANDS OF SIOUX
INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 596. Argued April 27, 1928.-Decided May 28, 1928.
1. The Act of March 4, 1927, granting the appellants in this case one
year within which to "appeal," was intended to confer the right
of appeal as distinguished from the right to petition for certiorari
conferred by the Jurisdictional Act of February 13, 1925. P. 427.

SIOUX INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
424

425

Syllabus.

2. The Act of April 11, 1916, which provides "that all claims of
whatsoever nature which the Sisseton and Wahpeton bands of
Sioux Indians may have or claim to have against the United
States shall be submitted to the Court of Claims . ... for the
amount due or claimed to be due said bands from the United States
under any treaties or laws of the United States," and which confers
jurisiction upon that court "to hear and determine all claims of
said bands against the United States," etc., is not to be construed
as authorizing the court to render a judgment for the Indians contrary to express provisions of the treaties and statutes involved,
upon the ground that such provisions were induced by mistake of
fact or were not understood by individual members of the bands
when adopted. P. 436.
So held respecting:
(1) A claim for the difference between the amount received by
the-Indians under an Act of March 2, 1861, for lands north of the
Minnesota River, at 30 cents per acre-the allowance fixed by the
Senate in 1860 pursuant to a Treaty of 1858-and the a 'mount
they would have received at $1.25 per acre--.the price at which
their lands south of the river were sold under an Act of-March 3,
1863, and which the court below found to be their value at that
time; the claim resting on the argument that the northern lands
must also have been worth the larger price in 1860, and that they
must have been undervalued through a mistake of the parties.
P. 428.
(2) A claim for additional compensation for land in Dakota Territory which had been ceded by the Indians and paid for by the
United States under an agreement ratified by Congress (Act of
Feb. 14, 1873), the ground for the claim being that, through a
mutual mistake of the parties, the area involved was underestimated by three million acres, and the amount of the claim being
for a corresponding addition to the amount agreed to and paid.
P. 432.
(3) A claim for the full principal amount of a trust fund set
apart by treaty (July 23, 1851) in consideration of a cession of
lands to the Government, and which had been paid, pursuant to
the treaty, by payment of interest at 5% for a period of fifty years;
the basis of the claim being that such a trust obligation could not
be discharged by such payments, and that the treaty was misunderstood by some of the Indians-not the representatives who
negotiated it--as providing for payinent of the principal also at
the end of the fifty-year period. P. 434.

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

3. An Act of March 3, 1863, following a Sioux Indian outbreak, directed the President to set aside for the Sisseton and Wahpeton
bands, lands sufficient to provide each member willing to adopt the
pursuit of agriculture with 80 acres of agricultural land. Held,
(1) that recovery for failure to fulfill this obligation would require
a finding of how many of the Indians were willing to follow such
pursuit; (2) that the Act was not intended for the benefit of those
who did not avail themselves of it because they were then in open
hostility to the Government. Pp. 430, 437.
4. Jurisdiction over Indians and their tribal lands belongs to Congress
and cannot be exercised by the courts in the absence of legislation
conferring such rights as are subject to judicial cognizance. P. 437.
58 Ct. Cls. 302, affirmed.

from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing a petition of the above-named bands of Indians
claiming compensation on account of lands and trust
funds.
APPEAL

Mr. Thomas Sterling, with whom Messrs. Robert T.
Tedrow and Walter W. McCaslin were on the brief, for
appellants.
Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for the United

States.
MR. JUSTICE

SToNE delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellants filed their petition in the Court of Claims

under the Act of April 11, 1916, c. 63, 39 Stat. 47, printed
in the margin so far as material,1 conferring on the Court
1." That all claims of whatsoever nature which the Sisseton and
Wahpeton bands of Sioux Indians may have or claim to have against
the United States shall be submitted to the Court of Claims, with the
right to appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States by either
party, for the amount due or claimed to be due said bands from the
United States under any treaties or laws of Congress; and jurisdiction is hereby conferred upon the Court of Claims to hear and determine all claims of said bands against the United States and also any
legal or equitable defense, set off, or counterclaim which the United

SIOUX INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
424

427

Opinion of the Court.

of Claims jurisdiction to hear and determine all claims of
the Sisseton and Wahpeton bands of Indians against the
United States. The Court of Claims on its findings of
fact and conclusions of law gave judgment dismissing
the petition. 58 Ct. Cls. 302. This Court denied an
application for certiorari. 275 U. S. 528. The present
appeal was taken under Act of Congress approved March
4, 1927, c. 522, 44 Stat. Part III, p. 1847. It specifically
granted to appellants one year from date within which
to appeal and was intended, we think, to confer a right
of appeal as distinguished from the right to petition for
ceitiorari within three months of the judgment, conferred
by §§ 3 and 8 of the Jurisdictional Act of February 13,
1925.
Appellants ask review by this Court of four items of
their claim, all of which were denied by the court below.
All involve the question, among others, whether under
the special act conferring jurisdiction on the Court of
Claims the authority of that court was limited to adjudicating the rights of appellants arising under treaties and
statutes of the United States, in accordance with accepted principles of law and equity, or whether it could
go behind those treaties and statutes and allow recovery
of amounts not authorized to be paid by, them, on
grounds of inadequacy of consideration and mistake.
States may have against said Sisseton and Wahpeton bands of Sioux
Indians, and to enter judgment, and in determining the amount to be
entered herein the court shall deduct from any sums found due said
Sisseton and Wahpeton bands of Sioux Indians any and all gratuities
paid said bands or individual members thereof subsequent to March
third, eighteen hundred and sixty-three; Provided, That in determining the amount to be entered herein, the value of the land involved
shall not exceed the value of such land on March third, eighteen hundred and sixty-three. .If any such question is submitted to said court
it shall settle the rights, both legal and equitable, of said bands of
Indians and the United States, notwithstanding lapse of time or
statute of limitations."

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

The four items of claim now presented differ in some
respects from the claims set up in the petition. The facts
now relied on, so far as disclosed by the findings, to which
the consideration of this Court is limited, may be summarized as follows:
I.
APPELLANTS' CLAIM FOR ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION1T FOR
LANDS CEDED UNDER THE TREATY OF

1858.

This claim is in substance founded upon an asserted
difference between the value of certain lands of petitioners and the amount allowed and paid for them under
treaties of the United States with the Indians and subsequent action taken under them. The Court of Claims
found that the petitioners were two bands of the Sioux
Indians, having their habitat prior to July 3, 1851, along
the upper Minnesota River. On that date they negotiated a treaty with the United States, later modified by
the Senate of the United States, and as modified ratified
by the Indians and the United States Government in
September, 1852. 10 Stat. 952, 958. The treaty ceded
to the United States all the lands of petitioners in the
territory of Minnesota and Iowa.
By Article III as originally drafted reservations for the
petitioners were set apart along the Minnesota River and
following the negotiations of the treaty the petitioners,
together with two other bands, the Wahpakoota and Medawakanton Indians, were removed to those reservations.
These provisions for reservations for the four bands were
stricken out of the treaty as ratified and a new provision
substituted that the Indians should be paid ten cents an
acre for these lands, payment to be in lieu of the reservations as originally provided for in Art. III of'the Treaty
as negotiated, the sum so paid to be added to the trust
fund for the Indians provided for in other sections of the

SIOUX INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
424

429

Opinion of the Court.

treaty. The sum so paid and allotted to the trust fund
amounted to $112,000. The President of the United
States was authorized to set apart another reservation for
these bands of Indians outside of the ceded territory, but
no other reservation was in fact so set apart under the
provisions of this treaty.
By Treaty of June, 1858, 12 Stat. 1031, 1037, it was
stipulated that those portions of the reservations lying
south of the Minnesota River should constitute reservations for the four bands with provisions for allotment and
that the disposition to be made of the portions of the
reservations on the north side of the river should be left
to the United States Senate for decision. Senate Resolution of June 27, 1860, 12 Stat. 1042, provided that the
Indians should be allowed 300 an acre for the lands lying
on the north side of the river. These lands consisted of
469,000 acres for which the Indians were paid $170,880,
payment being provided for by the Act of March 2, 1861,
c. 85, 12 Stat. 221, 237.
In August, 1862 and until 1864, the Sisseton and Wahpeton bands participated in an outbreak of the Sioux
Indians, during which many white settlers were massacred, and large amounts of property destroyed. In consequence, Congress, by Act of February 16, 1863, abrogated all treaties between them and the United States,
declared all their lands and rights of occupancy within the
State of Minnesota and all annuities and claims previously accorded to them forfeited and provided for payment of the damages suffered by citizens in consequence
of the outbreak from funds of the Indians in the hands of
the Government. By Act of March 3, 1863, lands in the
reservation on the south side of the Minnesota River were
sold, the Sisseton and Wahpeton bands ultimately receiving from the sale $647,457. The Court of Claims found
that the value of these lands on March 3, 1863, was $1.25

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

an acre. The appellants argue here that as these lands
were worth $1.25 an acre March 3, 1863, the lands on the
north side of the river were worth that amount when sold
for 300 an acre three years before, June 27, 1860, and that
they are now entitled to recover the difference, aggregating $541,120 between the value so ascertained and the
amount actually received from the sale, on the ground
that there must have been a material mistake of the parties as to the value of the land and that the jurisdictional
Act under which this suit was brought authorized the recovery of the value of the land as of March 3, 1863.
II.
APPELLANTS' CLAIM FOR COMPENSATION ARISING UNDER

THE

AcT OF MARcH 3, 1863, 12 STAT. 819.

Following the Sioux Indian outbreak of 1862 Congress,
by Act of March 3, 1863, c. 119, 12 Stat. 819, provided
that the President should set apart for the Sisseton and
Wahpeton bands, among others, unoccupied lands outside the limits of any state sufficient to provide each member willing to adopt the pursuit of agriculture with eighty
acres of agricultural land. Shortly afterwards such lands
were so designated and set apart at Crow Creek on the
Missouri River in Dakota territory. At this time, as a
result o? military operations against the Indians, two hundred and ninety-five full blood Indians of the Sisseton
and Wahpeton bands, and one hundred and twelve half
breeds of the four bands were military prisoners at Fort
Snelling. They, with prisoners of other bands, were removed to the reservation at Crow Creek, arriving there
about May 30th of that year, and lands were then finally
set apart for them in the following July. Military operations were continued until 1864, during which most of the
other members of the bands were driven out of the State

SIOUX INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
424

431

Opinion of the Court.

of Minnesota to points west of the Missouri River and
into Canada.

After the cessation of military operations,

these other members of the two bands, numbering in 1866
between six hundred and eight hundred, gathered and
settled near Fort Wadsworth in the eastern part of Dakota territory where, with the acquiescence of the Government, they remained until 1867 when the Lake Traverse
and Devil's Lake reservations were set apart for them.
In the meantime an unsuccessful effort had been made
by the Government to negotiate a treaty with these fragments of the bands for the extinguishment of their claim
to lands in the Dakota territory, which claims were considered doubtful because the lands were claimed by other
Indians. It does not appear that any material numbers
of additional members of the bands went to the Crow
Creek reservation or how many, if any, were willing to
adopt the pursuit of agriculture.
By Art. II of the Treaty of February 19, 1867, the Sisseton.and Wahpeton bands ceded to the United States the
right to construct wagon roads, railroad and telegraph
lines and other public improvements across the lands
claimed by them and described in the treaty, and in consideration of the "confiscation of all their annuities, reservations and improvements" by the Government, it was
provided that there should be set apart a permanent
reservation for such members of the bands as had not been
sent to the Crow Creek reservation. Such reservations
were set apart, which became known as the Lake Traverse
and Devil's Lake reservations. On the basis of these
findings appellants contend that under the Act of March
3, 1863, they were entitled to recover the value of an
allowance of eighty acres of agricultural land for each
member of the bands, aggregating 322,080 acres of land,
which, at $1.25 an acre, found by the Court of Claims to
be the value at that date, amounts to $402,600.

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

III.
APPELLANTS' CLAIM FOR COMPENSATION FOR LANDS

LEGED TO

AL-

HAVE BEEN CEDED BUT NOT PAm FOR UNDER

THE TREATY OF SEPTEMBER

20, 1872.

By Act of June 7, 1872, c. 325, 17 Stat. 281, the Secretary of the Interior was directed to report to Congress
what title or interest the Sisseton and Wahpeton bands
had in any portion of the land described in the second
article of the Treaty of February 19, 1867, under which
the Lake Traverse and Devil's Lake reservations were
set apart, and also "whether any, and if any, what compensation ought in justice and equity to be made to the
said bands of Indians respectively for the extinguishment
of whatever title they may have to said lands." Under
the statute-the Secretary appointed a commission to make
an investigation of the Indians' title to the land and if it
found such title to be valid and complete to negotiate for
the relinquishment of the title upon terms "at once favorIndians."
able to the government and just to the
On October 3, 1872, the commission reported that prior
to the treaty of February 19, 1867, the title to the tract
of the Sisseton and Wahpeton bands was doubtful, as
other bands of Sioux Indians claim6d a common interest
in the lands, but that the United States had, by that
treaty, recognized the title of the Sisseton and Wahpeton
bands and was by it estopped from denying their title.
The commission reported that it estimated the tract of
land to have an area of over eight million acres and that
the value of the lands should be fixed at the sum of
$800,000, although the Indians urged $200,000 more than
this sum as the proper value and one of the commissioners
was of the opinion that $800,000 was more than should
be allowed.

SIOUX INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
424

433

Opinion of the Court.

The commission submitted with its report a proposed
treaty which it had negotiated with the Indians under
date of September 20, 1872 (Kappler's Indian Laws &
Treaties, Vol. 2, p. 1057), under which the bands were to
cede all their interest in the lands as well as all lands in
the territory of Dakota, except the Lake Traverse and
Devil's Lake reservations. The principal, but not the
only consideration, was the-S800,000, payable to the Indians in annual installments of $80,000 each, without
interest.
By Act of February 14, 1873, c. 138, 17 Stat. 437, 456,
Congress ratified, and confirmed that portion of the treaty
providing for the cession of the lands and the payment of
$800,000, and appropriated $80,000 for the first install.
ment payment. The treaty, as thus amended, and confirmed by Congress, was ratified by the Indians May 2,
1873 (Kappler's Indian Laws and Treaties, Vol. 2, p.
1059). The stipulated annual installments were appropriated and paid, the appropriation acts providing that
the several installments were "for the relinquishment by
said Indians of their claim to or interest in the land described in the second article of the Treaty made with
them February 19, 1867." 18 Stat. 167, 441; 19 Stat. 192,
287; 20 Stat. 81, 310; 21 Stat. 127, 497; 22 Stat. 81.
In making the treaty or agreement of September 20,
1872, it was the belief and understanding of the parties
that the approximate area of the tract of land to be sold
and ceded by the Indians was eight million acres. In
fact, the actual area of the land, as later determined, was
eleven million acres. The Court of Claims found that
the value of the land was not satisfactorily shown by the
evidence either on March 3, 1863, or at the time of the
making of the agreement or treaty.
Appellants contend that there was a mutual mistake
of fact as to the quantity of land ceded and that the

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

Court of Claims should have awarded compensation at
the rate of 100 an acre for the three million acres of land
in excess of the eight million acres which was supposed to
be the approximate area of the land at the time of the
agreement.
IV.
APPELLANTS' CLAIM FOR PAYMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL OF
THE

TRUST FUND

CREATED

UNDER

THE TREATY

OF

JuLY 23, 1851.
The Treaty of July 23, 1851, provided for the creation
of a trust fund to be paid by the Government to the Sisseton and Wahpeton bands for the cession by them of lands
to the Government under this treaty. It was provided
that the fund should be held by the Government and 5%
interest on it paid annually by the Government to the
Indians for a period of fifty years, which payments when
completed were to be full payment of and to extinguish
the trust fund. Under the treaty as submitted to the
Senate for ratification, the amount of the trust fund was
designated as $1,360,000, but under the treaty as amended
by the Senate and ratified by the Indians, this amount
was increased to $1,472,000.
Until the Indian outbreak of 1862 and the Act of
February 16, 1863, the Government paid the stipulated
annual payments and, notwithstanding the forfeiture of
their rights by the Act of February 16, 1863, the Government has, under subsequent acts of Congress, accounted
to the Indians for the remaining payments covering the
entire fifty year period, less such amounts as were paid
to citizens for damages sustained by them by reason of
the outbreak.
The petitioners claim the right to recover the full principal sum set apart for them in addition to the installments paid which, alone, the treaty authorized, on the

SIOUX INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
424

435

Opinion of the Court.

ground that as the specified fund was designated as a
trust fund the obligation of the Government with respect
to it could not be discharged by the payment of an
amount equivalent to annual interest upon the fund for
fifty years, and also because the Court of Claims found
that some members of the two bands did not understand
at the time the treaty was made that the payment of
interest on the trust fund for fifty years was to be in full
payment of the principal, and did understand that at the
end of the fifty-year period the principal was also to be
paid over to the Indians.
It will be observed that of the four claims, Claims I, III,
and IV are based on alleged mistakes which are urged as
a sufficient basis for disregarding the express provisions of
the treaties and statutes concerned, Claim I being based
on an alleged mistake as to the value of the land purchased under a treaty; Claim III being based on a supposed mistake as to the amount of land purchased by
the Government for a lump sum under a treaty, and Claim
IV being based upon an alleged mistake of individual
members of the bands as to the amount to be paid under
the Treaty of July 23, 1851, although the Court of Claims
found that it did not appear that their representatives,
the chiefs and headmen who negotiated the treaty, did
not understand the provisions of it.
It is also to be noted that there are no specific findings,
supporting the claims, that the stipulated payments referred to in Claims I, III and V were based on mistake
or that different amounts would have been stipulated for
and paid, had the parties or either of them been aware
of the supposed mistakes or the equitable considerations
now pressed upon us. To supply the lack of such findings
petitioners are compelled to rely on inferences which they
seek to draw from the facts as found and already stated
in this opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

If we were to assume that the act conferring jurisdiction
on the Court of Claims in this case is broad enough to
allow a recovery based upon mistakes or other considerations inducing the treaties and acts of Congress with
which we are now concerned we should find it difficult to
discern in the findings any basis for the inferences necessary to support a recovery on such a theory. But we
think it plain that that act only gave authority to the
Court of Claims to hear and determine claims "for the
amount due or claimed to be due said bands from the
United States under any treaties or laws of Congress."
It does not purport to alter or enlarge any rights conferred on petitioners by the treaties or laws of the United
States or authorize any recovery except in accordance
with the legal principles applicable in determining those
rights under laws and treaties of the United States. See
United States v. Old Settlers, 148 U. S. 427, 468, 469;
United States v. Mille Lac Chippewas, 229 U. S. 498, 500.
To give the relief now sought it would be necessary to
render a judgment predicated upon the abrogation of express provisions of the treaties and statutes concerned
and the substitution for them of other provisions which
Congress has never enacted or authorized. These are
political, not judicial powers. The Act does not purport
to bestow such powers on the Court of Claims and it would
require resort to a vfolent and inadmissible presumption
to infer any such purpose in the act. Cf. United States
v. Old Settlers, supra; and see Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock,
187 U. S. 553, 567.
The second claim stands upon a somewhat different footing, but here also are wanting findings of fact essential to
support the claim. The Act of March 3, 1863, directed
the President to set aside for the Sisseton and Wahpeton
bands, lands sufficient in extent to enable them to assign
to each member of the band "who is willing to adopt the
pursuit of agriculture, eighty acres of agricultural land,"

SIOUX INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
424

437

Opinion of the Court.

but there is no finding showing how many, or that any of
the Indians were willing to follow the pursuit of agriculture after the adoption of the Act of March 3. Hence
there is no. foundation for any recovery which might be
awarded on the basis of allotments to which only those
members of the band were entitled who were willing to
follow the pursuit of agriculture.
So far as those members of the band in amity with the
United States were concerned, the findings show that they
were provided for in the Crow Creek reservation set apart
under the act of Congress. Appellants' present claim extends to those who were then in active hostility to the
United States, the subject of its military operations and
who were fleeing from capture by the military arm of the
Government. The Act of March 3, 1863, passed at the
very time of these operations could.not, we think, have
been intended for the benefit of those Indians who were
then in open hostility to the Government and who for that
reason did not avail of its benefits or comply with the
conditions.
Nor can it now be deemed the basis of any claim for
damages against the United-States cognizable by a courta conclusion at which we arrive quite independently of
any consideration of the fact that the United States later
made provision for these hostile and fugitive members of
the two bands in the Lake Traverse and Devil's Lake
reservations. Jurisdiction over them and their tribal
lands was peculiarly within the legislative power of Congress and may not be exercised by the courts in the absence of legislation conferring rights upon them such as
are the subject of judicial cognizance. See Lone Wolf v.
Hitchcock, supra, 565; Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock,
187 U. S. 294; Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S.
445, 483. This the jurisdictional Act of April 11, 1916,
plainly failed to do.
Affirmed.

