DUGAN v. OHIO.
54

Syllabus.

back to the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings.
It may be suggested that we might consider the correctness of the judgment against the city in favor of the
Brown-Crummer Company on the city warrants and decide that. We have been advised by counsel that a case
involving the validity of such warrants under the-state
law is now pending in the Texas Supreme Court and that

the Circuit Court of Appeals should have the benefit of
that decision before passing on the question.

Without intimating that the decision of the Texas court
on the question of city warrants will be controlling under
the circumstances of this case, we deem.it better to remand the whole case to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
further proceedings and complete disposition.
Reversed.
DUGAN.v. OHIO.
ERROR TO THB SUPREME COURT OF O i.

No. 766. Argued April 10, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
Petitioner was convicted and fined by the mayor of a city for a violation of the Ohio liquor law committed within the city.limits. Th.e
legislative powers of the city were exercised by a commission of
five, of whom the mayor was one, and its executive powers by the
commission and a manager, who was the active executive. The
functions of the mayor, as such, were judicial only; his sole c6ipensation was a salary fixed by the vote of the other commissioners,
and payable out of a general fund to which the fines accumulated
in his court under all laws contributed, the salary being the same
whether the trials before hm resulted in convictions or acquittals.
Held, that the mayor's relations to the fund and to the financial
policy of the city. were too remote to warrant a presumption of
bias toward conviction in prosecutions before him as judge; and
,that objection to .the conviction in this case as wanting in due
process of law must be overrifled. . Tumei' v. Ohio, 273 U. 5. 510,
distinguished. P. 63.
117 Oh, t.503, affirmed.

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1027.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. 5.

EPHoR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio,
sustaining petitioner's conviction by a mayor's court for
an offense against the Ohio liquor law.
Mr. F. L. Johnson., with whom Mr. Robert F. Cogswell
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. A. Finney, with whom Mr. Herman E. Werner
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHiE' JusmcIC

TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
M. J. Dugan was convicted before the Mayor's Court
of the city of Xenia, Greene County, Ohio, for the unlawful possession of intoxicating liquor under Section
6212-15 of the General Code of Ohio. The conviction
was sustained by the Common Pleas Court of Greene
County, Ohio, by the Court of Appeals of the same
county, and by the Supreme Court of the State. The
defendant has duly raised the question of the constitutional impartiality of the mayor to try the case. This is
the only issue for our consideration. The objection is
based on the ground that for the mayor to act in this
case was a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Federal Constitution, in that the mayor occupied in the
city government two practically and-seriously inconsistent
positions, one partisan and the other judicial; that as
such mayor he had power under the law to convict persons without a jury of the offense of the possession of
intoxicating liquor and punish them by substantial fines,
half of which were paid into the city treasury, and as a
member of the city commission he had a right to vote on
the appropriation and the spending of city funds; and
further that while he received only a fixed s~lary and did
not receive any fees, yet all the fees taxed and collected
under his convictions were paid into the city treasury

DUGANPv. OHIO.
61

Opinion of the Court.

and were contributions to a general fund out of which
his salary as mayor was payable.
The defendant, in February, 1924, .pleaded, guilty and
was fined $400 for possessing intoxicating liquor, and
thereafter was convict6d and fined $1,000 for a subsequent similar offense. This is a review of the second
conviction.
The city of Xenia is a charter city, and has a commission form of government, with five commissioners. The
charter provides that a member of .the city commission
shall also be mayor. The mayor has no executive, and
exercises only judicial, functions. The commission exercises all the legislative power of, the city, and together
with the manager exercises all its executive powers. The
manager is the active executive. The mayor's salary is
fixed by the votes of the members of the commission other
than the mayor, he having no vote therein. He receives
no fees. The offense charged here was committed within
the corporate lEmits of the.city of Xenia. Xenia is the
capital of Greene County, having, according to .the census of 1920, a population of 9,110. Greene County is a
rural county with no larger city than Xenia.
Was the mayor disqualified as judge by the Fourteenth
Amendment as interpreted and applied in Tumey v. The
State of Ohio, 273 'U. S. 510? We think not. The
Tumey case does not apply to this. Tumey was arrested
and charged with unlawful possession of intoxicating
liquor at White Oak, a village in Hamilton County, Ohio,
on a warrant issued' by the m*ayor of North College Hill.
The latter was a village of 1,100 in the county which included the city of Cincinnati with half a million population. The counsel for the State asserted in that case that
the purpose of the law in its application to the mayor
of a village in large counties was to extend jurisdiction t& break up places of outlawry that were located
on the municipal boundary just outside of large cities;

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U.S.

that in some of the cities the normal enforcement agencies under the law did not perform their duty, and the
jurisdiction of mayors of village courts over the whole
county was conferred so that there might be some courts
through which effective prosecutions for city offenders
could be had; and that the system by which the fines to
be collected were divided equally between the State and
the village was for the proper purpose of stimulating the
activities of the village officers and agents to due enforcement over the county. The council of any village might
by ordinance authorize the use of half of the fines collected for the violation of the prohibition law so that by
contingent commissions to attorneys, detectives, or secret
service officers they could secure the enforcement of the
law and very much increase the revenue of the Village.
The duties of the mayor of a village in Ohio like that
of North College Hall were primarily executive. He was
the chief conservator of the peace and directed to see
that all ordinances were faithfully obeyed and enforced.
He communicated to council from time to time a statement of the finances of the municipality. He supervised
the'conduct of all the officers of the corporation, including
those engaged in .prosecuting the liquor law violators.
This Court in the Tumey case held that it was a viola,
tion of due process of law to make the compenation of
the mayor dependent upon his conviction of defendants
in this especially organized "liquor" court, from which
the mayor received, in addition to his salary, about $100
a month from convictions. The direct dependence of the
mayor upon convictions for compensation for his services
as a judge was found to be inconsistent with due process
of law.
As the plaintiff in error contends, however, the mayor's
individual pecuniary interest in his conviction of defendants wa@ not the only reason in the Tumey case for hold-

DUGAN v. OHWO.-61

-,

65

Opinion of the Court.

ing the Fourteenth Amendment to be violated. Another
was that a* dhfendant brought into court might with
reason complain that he was not likely to' get a fair
trial or a fair sentence from a judge who as chief executive was responsible for the financial condition of the.
village, who could and 'did largely control the policy of
setting up a liquor court in the village with attorneys,
marshals and detectives nuder his supervisibn, and who
by his interest as mayor might be tempted to accumulate
from heavy fines a large, fund by..which the running expenses of a small-village could be paid, -improvements
might b'e made and taxes rdduced. This was thought
not to be giving the defendant the benefit of due process
of law.
No such case -is presented at the bar. The mayor of
Xenia receives a salary which is not-dependent on whether
he convicts in -anycase or not. While it is true that his
salary is paid out of a fund to which fines accumulated
from his court under all Jaws contribute, it is a general
fund, and he receives a salaryin -any event, whether he
convicts or acquits. There is no reason to infer on any
showing that failure to convict in any case or cases would
deprive him of 'or affect his- fixed 'compensation. The
mayor has himself as such no executive but ofily judicial
duties. His relation under the Xdnia charter, as one of
five members of the city commission, to the -fund contributed to by his fines as: judge, or to the executive or
financial policy of the city, -is remote. We agree with the
Supreme Court of Ohio in its view that the principles
announced in the Tumey case do not cover this.
."'
Judgment affirmed,

