STIPCICH v. INSURANCE CO.

311

Syllabus.

STIPCICH v. METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 97. Argued November 30, 1927. Reargued March 6, 1928.Decided May 21, 1928.
1. Am applicant for life insurance who, after signing the application
and before delivery of the policy, discovers a change in his physical
condition seriously affecting his health and rendering statements in
his application which are material to the risk no longer true, is
under a duty to inform the insurer fully, and his failure to do so
will constitute a defense to an action on the policy. So held
where the ailment so discovered was the cause of the death of the
insured. P. 316.
2. This duty does not rest upon the stipulations of the parties, but
is one imposed by law as the result of their relationship and because of the peculiar character of the insurance contract as a
contract uberrimae fidei. Pp. 316-318.
3. A state statute providing that "any person who shall solicit and
procure an application for life insurance shall, in all matters relating to such application for insurance and the policy issued in consequence thereof, be regarded as the agent of the company issuing
the policy and not the agent of the insured," and avoiding all
provisions in the application or policy to the contrary, controls
policies issued after its enactment and empowers the agent to
receive from the applicant on behalf of the company, a disclosure
of a change in the applicant's health occurring after the making of
the application and affecting the validity of the insurance if not
disclosed. P. 320.
4. Under such a statute, a clause printed in a life insurance application, embodied in the policy, denying the authority of the solicitipg
and forwarding agent to vary the terms of the contract, waive conditions or receive information sought by questions in the application
other than that embodied in it--eld inapplicable to receipt of
information from the applicant as to a change in his health, after
the making and forwarding of the application and before delivery
of the policy. P. 321.

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Stipcich.

277 U. S.

5. A provision in a life insurance application that any knowledge on
the part of any agent as to any facts pertaining to the applicant
shall not be considered as having been brought to the knowledge of the company unless stated in the application, should
not be construed as applying to knowledge affecting the risk which
insured acquired and communicated to the company's agent after
the application was signed and delivered to the agent and sent to
the company's home office in another State. P. 321.
6. Narrow and unreasonable interpretations of clauses in an insurance
policy are not favored. When open, with equal reason, to two
constructions, the one most favorable to the insured will be adopted.
P. 322.
7. A defense set up in an answer, but not considered in the court
below nor pressed in this one, and which depends on testimony
ambiguous in character or excluded upon the trial, will not be
passed upon by this Court. Id.
Reversed.
REvIEw of a judgment of the District Court for the

insurance company in a suit on a life insurance policy.
The case went to the Circuit Court of Appeals and was
ordered up here in its entirety after that court had certified certain questions concerning it.
Mr. Chester L Long, with whom Messrs. George E.
Chamberlain,PeterQ. Nyce, and G. C. Fultonwere on the
brief, for Stipcich.
The condition of health of applicant between the date
of application and delivery of the policy is not material
under the provisions of the policy. The statutes of Oregon are a part of the policy, as though written therein.
Where there is a conflict between a provision in the
policy and a statute, the provision in the policy is void.
Nat'l Ins. Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U. S. 71; ContinentalLife
Ins. Co. v. Chamberlain,132 U. S. 304.
The policy is the entire contract, and all conditions
must be in it. Northwestern Life Ins. Co. v. Riggs, 203
U. S. 243; Cable v. U. S. Life Ins. Co., 111 Fed. 19;
Thompson v. Travelers Ins. Co., 13 N. D. 444.

STIPCICH v. INSURANCE CO.
311

Argument for the Insurance Company.

The agent must be licensed and he represents the company in all matters. The stipulation attempting to limit
the agent's authority is void. The stipulation is not applicable to subsequent events here involved.
Between two constructions of an insurance policy, the
one most favorable to the insured is to be taken. Nat'l
Bank v. Insurance Co., 95 U. S. 673; Thompson v.
Phoenix Ins.'Co., 136 U. S. 297; American Surety Co. v.
Pauly, 170 U. S. 144; McMaster v. New York Life Ins.
Co., 183 U. S. 25; Williams v. Pacific States FireIns. Co.,
120 Ore. 1.
Mutual Life Co. v. Hilton-Green,241 U. S. 613, is not
in point.
Other cases cited by defendant in error are inapplicable
as no statutes'were involved making limitation of agent's
authority void.
.Mr. F. Eldred Boland, with whom Mr. Samuel Knight
was on the brief, for Metropolitan Life Insurance Corapany.
The representations made by an applicant for life insurance must be true as of the time of the consummation
of the contract; and if there is any change in the physical
condition of the applicant material to the risk, occurring
between the making of the application and the consummation of the contract, it is imperative upon himto notify
the company. M'Lanahan v. Universal Ins. Co., 1 Pet.
170; Piedmont & A. L. Ins. Co. v. Ewing, 92 U. S. 377;
Equitable Life A. Society v. McElroy, 83 Fed. 631; Cable
v. U. S. Life Ins. Co., 111 Fed. 19; Watson v. Delafield, 2
Caines 224, 1 Johns. 150, 2 Johns. 526; Whitley v. Piedmont etc. Ins. Co., 71 N. C. 480; Thompson v. Travelers
Ins. Co., 13 N. D. 444; Graham v. General Mut. Ins. Co.,
6 La. Ann. 4832; Hart v. British & F. M. Ins. Co., 80 Cal.
440; Carletonv. PatronsFireIns. Co., 109 Me. 79; Harris
v. Security Ins. Co., 130 Tenn. 325; Traill v. Baring, 4 De

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

G. J. & S. 318; BritishEquitableIns. Co. v. Great Western
R. R., 38 L. J. Ch. (N. S.) 314; Canning v. Farquhar,
L. R. 16 Q. B. Div. 727.
The policy is the entire contract; including the representations in the application as to the condition of health
at the time the policy was delivered. Both the law of
Oregon and the policy provide that the policy and application shall state the entire contract.
The policy as issued and delivered does not in reality
state the entire contract; it omits to mention the changed
condition, a very important, even paramount, element of
the contract.
If Stipcich had read the contract, as it was his duty to
do, he would have known that he had not made known his
changed condition at all, or that Coblentz, the agent, had
omitted to mention it to the insurance company. In
either case. his continued silence would violate his obligation. New York Life Ins. Co. v. Fletcher, 117 U. S. 519;
Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Hilton-Green, 241 U. S. 613.
An insurer has the right to limit its agents' authority
and to provide that the knowledge of the soliciting agent
concerning matters material to the risk shall not be imputed to the principal. Northern Assurance Co. v. Grand
View Building Ass'n, 183 U. S. 308; New York Life Ins.
Co. v. Fletcher, 117 U. S. 519; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v.
Moore, 231 U. S. 543; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. HiltonGreen, supra; HartfordFire Ins. Co. v. Nance, 12 F. (2d)
575; Hartford Fire Ins. Co. v. Jones, 15 F. (2d) 1.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The plaintiff brought this action in the circuit court
for Clatsop County, Oregon, as beneficiary of a policy by
which the defendant had insured the life of her husband,
Anton Stipcich. The case was removed for diversity of
'citizenship to the United States district court for Oregon.
The company defended principally on the ground that

STIPCICH v. INSURANCE CO.
311

Opinion of the Court.

Stipcich, after applying for the insurance and before the
delivery of the policy and payment of the first premium,
had suffered a recurrence of a duodenal ulcer, which later
caused his death, and that he failed to reveal this information to the company.
It was shown on the trial by uncontradicted evidence
that after his application Stipcich consulted two physicians and that they told him that an operation for
the removal of the ulcer was necessary. Plaintiff then
made tender of evidence to the effect that Stipcich had
communicated this information to Coblentz, the defendant's agent who had solicited the policy, and that the visit
to the second doctor was made at Coblentz' request to
confirm the diagnosis of the first.
The proffered evidence was excluded and, at the close
of the whole case and over plaintiff's objection, the court
directed a verdict for the defendant, stating that it did
so because Stipcich was under a duty to inform the defendant of his knowledge of the serious ailment of which
he had learned after making application for insurance;
and that he had failed in that duty since his communication of the facts to Coblentz did not amount to notice of
them to the insurance company. The case was taken on
writ of error to the .court of appeals for the ninth circuit.
That court certified to this, certain questions of law presented by the case. Jud. Code, ยง 239. Without answering, we ordered the entire record to be sent up and the case
is here as though on writ of error.
An insurer may of course assume the risk of such
changes in the insured's health as may occur between the
date of application and the date of the issuance of a policy.
Where the parties contract exclusively on the basis of
conditions as they existed at the date of the application,
the failure of- the insured to divulge any later known
changes in health may well not affect the policy. Insurance Co. v. Higginbotham, 95 U. S. 380; see New York

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

Life Insurance Co. v. Moats, 207 Fed. 481;" Grier v. Insurance Co., 132 N. C. 542; compare Gardner v. North
State Mutual Life Insurance Co., 163 N. C. 367. But
there is no contention here that the parties contracted
exclusively on the basis of conditions at the time of the
application. Here both by the terms of the application
and familiar rules governing the formation of contracts
no contract came into existence until the delivery of the
policy, and at that time the insured had learned of conditions gravely affecting his health, unknown at the time of
making his application.
Insurance policies are traditionally contracts uberrimae
fidei and a failure by the insured to disclose conditions
affecting the risk, of which he is aware, makes the contract voidable at the insurer's option. Carter v. Boehm,
3 Burrows, 1905; Livingston v. Maryland Insurance Co.,
6 Cranch, 274; McLanahan v. Universal Insurance Co.,
1 Pet. 170; Phoenix Life Insurance Co. v. Raddin, 120
U. S. 183, 189; Hardman v. Firemen'sInsurance Co., 20
Fed. 594.
Concededly, the modern practice of requiring the applicant for life insurance to answer questions prepared by the
insurer has relaxed this rule to some extent, since information not asked for is presumably deemed immaterial.
Pen Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Mechanics' Savings
Bank & Trust Co., 72 Fed. 413, 435-441. See Clark v.
Manufacturer'sInsurance Co., 8 How. 235, 248-249; compare Phoenix Life Insurance Co. v. Raddin, 120 U. S. 183,
190.
But the reason for the rule still obtains, and with added
force, as to changes materially affecting the risk which
come to the knowledge of the insured after the application
and before delivery of the policy. For, even the most
unsophisticated person muit know that minanswering the
questionnaire and submitting it to the insurer he is
furnishing the data on the basis of which the com-

STIPCICH v. INSURANCE CO.
311

317

Opinion of the Court.

pany will decide whether, by issuing a policy, it wishes
to insure him. If, while the company deliberates, he discovers facts which make portions of his application no
longer true, the most elementary spirit of fair dealing
would seem to require him to make a full disclosure.1 If
he fails to do so the company may, despite its acceptance
of the application, decline to issue a policy, Canning v.
Farquhar, 16 Q. B. D. 727; McKenzie v. Northwestern
Mutual Life Insurance Co., 26 Ga. App. 225, or if a policy
has been issued, it has a valid defense to a suit upon it.
Equitable Life Assurance Society v. McElroy, 83 Fed.
631, 636, 637. Compare Traill v. Baring, 4 DeG. J. & S.
318; Allis-Chalmers Co. v. Fidelity & Deposit Co. of
'The rule that changes in conditions material to the risk which
occur between the opening of negotiations for insurance and the issuance of a policy must be divulged became first established in early
British marine insurance. Grieve v. Young, (Ct. of Session, 1782)
Millar, Elements of the Law Relating to Insurances, p. 65; Fitzherbert
v. Mather;1 T. R. 12. Its adoption here followed as cases presenting
the question arose. McLanahan v. Universal Insurance Co., 1 Pet.
170; Watson v. Delafield, 2 Caines (N. Y.) 224; s. c., 1 Johns. (N..Y.)
149; s. c., 2 Johns. (N. Y.) 526; Andrews v. Marine Insurance Co.,
9 Johns. (N. Y.) 32; Green v. Merchants' Insurance Co., 10 Pick.
(Mass.) 402; Neptune Insurance Co. v. Robinson, 11 Gill & J. (Md.)
256; Snow v. MercantileMutual Insurance Co., 61 N. Y. 160. When
written applications began to be used by life insurance companies the
rule was invoked as to occurrences after an application had been submitted. Whitley v. Piedmont & Arlington Life Insurance Co., 71
N. C. 480; Thompson v. Travelers Insurance Co., 13 N. Dak. 444,
453; Cable v. United States Life Insurance Co., 111 Fed. 19; Equitable.Life Assurance Society v. McElroy, 83 Fed. 631; but see Merriman v. Grand Lodge Degree of Honor, 77 Neb. 544; Ames v. New
York Life Insurance Co., 154 Minn. 111. The result is often explained by saying that a statement in the application is a "continuing representation," or "is made as of the time of the delivery of the
policy." Re Arbitration between Marshall & Scottish Employers'
Liability and General Insurance Co., Ltd., 85 L. T. 757; Canning v.
Farquhar, supra; Blumer v. Phoenix Insurance Co., 45 Wis. 622;
Equitable Life Assurance Society v. McElroy, supra; Cable v. United
States Life Insurance Society, supra.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U.S.

Maryland, 114 L. T. 433; compare Piedmont and Arlington Life Insurance Co. v. Ewing, 92 U. S. 377.
This generally recognized rule, in the absence of authoritative local decision, we take to be the law of Oregon.
Its application here is not affected by Oregon Laws,
ยง 6426(1) c, which provides that the policy shall set forth
the entire contract between the parties. The defendant
in insisting that Stipcich was under an obligation to disclose his discovery to it is not attempting to add another
term to the contract. The obligation was not one stipulated for by the parties, but is one imposed by law as a
result of the relationship assumed by them and because
of the peculiar character of the insurance contract. The
necessity for complying with it is not dispensed with by
the failure of the insurer to stipulate in the policy for
such disclosure.
The evidence proffered and rejected tended to show that
the insured, in good faith, made the required disclosure
to Coblentz who, for some purposes, admittedly represented the defendant. If he represented it for this purpose the evidence should have been received. Coblentz
was the licensed agent of respondent under Oregon Laws
ยง 6425 which provides that every life insurance company
doing business in the state "shall give written notice to
the insurance commissioner of the name and residence
of, and obtain from him a license for every person appointed by it to act as its agent within this state, which
license shall state, in substance, that the company is
authorized to do business in this state and that the person named therein is constituted an agent of the company for the transaction of business in this state. .. "
The insured knew no other agent of defendant and dealt
with Coblentz alone. So far as appears, no other person
or agency was designated under the statute or held out
by the defendant as representing it in connection with

STIPCICH v. INSURANCE CO.
311

Opinion of the Court.

Stipcich's application for insurance or the delivery of the
policy or as the appropriate person or agency to receive
information concerning either of them. The insured delivered the application to Coblentz and later paid to him
the first premium, receiving in return the policy and a
receipt executed by Coblentz in defendant's name. In
communicating to him the information as to his changed
condition of health Stipcich acted only in what must
have appeared to him the most natural and obvious way
to supplement the information already given in his
written application.
Defendant relies on the established rule, here expressed in part at least in the printed clause of the application, incorporated in the policy and printed in the
margin,2 that the authority of a soliciting agent to receive
the application and transmit it to the company and to
deliver the policy when issued, does not include power
to vary the terms of the contract, to waive conditions or
to receive information sought by questions in the application other than that embodied in it. But Coblentz,
when the insured communicated the information to him,
did not purport to vary any term or waive any condition
of the proposed insurance contract; he did not acquiesce
in a variation of the application; nor in connection with
the preparation of the written application did he receive
any information not written into it. The insured merely
communicated information, supplementing the application, to the designated agent of the company for the
fransaction of business in the state, as the most natural
and appropriate channel of communication to the company.
2

" 2. That no agent, medical examiner, or any other person except

the Officers at the Home Office of the Company, have power on

behalf

of the Company; (a) to make, modify or discharge any contract of
insurance, (b) to bind the Company by making any promises respect-

ing any benefits under any policy issued hereunder."

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

In insisting that it was entitled to information of the
insured's change of health after the application, but that
such information could not be effectively communicated
to its agent to receive the application and transact business with insured preliminary to the acceptance of the
risk, defendant is not aided by the stipulations of the policy and any doubts as to the agent's implied authority to
receive it must be resolved in the light of the Oregon
statutes. Oregon Laws ยง 6435 reads as follows:
"Any person who shall solicit and procure an application for life insurance shall, in all matters relating to such
application for insurance and the policy issued in consequence thereof, be regarded as the agent of the company
issuing the policy and not the agent of the insured, and
all provisions in the application and policy to the contrary are void and cf no effect whatever."
Provisions of this character are controlling when inconsistent with the terms of a policy issued after their enactment. National Union Fire Insurance Co. v. Wanberg,
260 U. S. 71; ContinentalLife Insurance Co. v. Chamberlain, 132 U. S. 304; Whitfield v. Aetna Life Insurance Co.,
205 U. S. 489. Here the statute does more than provide
that the soliciting agent in matters relating to the application and policy does not represent the insured. In connection with those matters it makes him the agent of the
company, a phrase which would be meaningless unless the
statute when applied to the facts of the case indicated in
what respects he represented the company. Here the
statute in terms defines the scope of his agency to the extent that he is stated to represent the company "in all
matters relating to the application and the policy issued
in consequence" of it. We need not inquire what are the
outer limits of that authority, but we think this language
plainly makes him the representative of the company in
connection with all those matters which, in the usual

STIPCICH v. INSURANCE CO.
311

Opinion of the Court.

course of effecting insurance, are incidental to the application and the delivery of the policy. '
Within the requirements of the statute the company
may provide by stipulations in the application or other
appropriate notice for a suitable method of giving the information, by writing, in a supplemental application or
otherwise, or may stipulate, as is not unusual, that the
insurance shall not attach on delivery of the policy unless
the insured is in good health. To say that under this
statute the company's agent to solicit and receive the application and deliver the policy is not its agent also to
receive disclosures which supplement the application and
which vitally affect the validity of the insurance if not
disclosed, is to disregard its language -and ignore the obvious purpose of such legislation to require the company
to provide some agency within the state with which the
insured may safely deal in matters relating to his application. See Continental Life Insurance Co. v. Chamberlain,
supra.
Much reliance is placed by respondent on Mutual Life
Insurance Co. v. Hilton-Green, 241 U. S. 613, where a
somewhat similar statute was involved. But there answers known by the insured and the agent to be false were
written into the signed application by the agent. Such
fraudulent representations known and participated in by
the insured obviously could not have estopped the company, but there is nothing in the present case to suggest
that the insured was a party to or intended any concealment from the company.
The defendant also argues that it is not affected by the
disclosures to the agent because the application provided:
"That any statement made to or by, or any knowledge on
the part of, any agent, medical examiner or any other person as to any facts pertaining to the Applicant shall not
be considered as having been made to or brought to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

knowledge of the Company unless stated in either part A
or B of this application." But when Stipcich learned of
his condition and told Coblentz about it, neither of them
had possession of the application. That had been filled
out and sent to the home office of respondent in New
York, and disclosure "in either part A or B of this application" of a fact which did not occur until after the application was completed was obviously impossible. It is
said that compliance with this provision, even though
impossible, was a condition precedent to the securing of
insurance. But narrow and unreasonable interpretations
of clauses in an insurance policy are not favored. They
are prepared by the insurer and if, with equal reason, open
to two constructions, that most favorable to the insured
will be adopted. Mutual Insurance Co.v. Hurni Co., 263
U. S. 167, 174; Thompson v. Phoenix Insurance Co., 136
U. S. 287; American Surety Co. v. Pauly, 170 U. S. 133,
144. The clause must therefore be taken to apply to information given or available when the application was
prepared and as inapplicable to knowledge affecting the
risk which insured acquired and communicated after the
application was signed and delivered to the company's
agent.
The only questions certified by the court of appeals,
and the only questions pressed upon us here involve the
correctness of the rulings of the trial court to which we
have alluded. But the respondent's answer sets up that
certain answers given in the written application as to the
insured's recovery from his earlier illness, its recurrence,
and with respect to consultation of physicians, were false
and known by him to be false when he signed the application. It is now suggested that Stipcich in his application made a positive misrepresentation regarding a visit to
a physician the day before he applied for insurance. If
that were clearly established we would consider it neces-

THE MALCOLM BAXTER, JR.
311

Syllabus.

sary to affirm the judgment below, although we think the
rulings on which it was based erroneous. But the particular questions and portions of the record relied on, in
the light of the medical testimony, are not free from ambiguity. The point is not elaborated in the briefs of
either party and was not pressed upon us on the argument. At no time in the entire course of the litigation
does the effect of the answers appear to have received any
consideration independently of the supposed failure to
make sufficient disclosure to the company of knowledge
acquired by the insured after the application. Nor, in
the absence of the testimony as to the disclosure made to
Coblentz, are we able to say what its bearing may be on
the alleged misstatements in the application. Under such
circumstances we must decline to pass upon this defense.
Compare SoutheasternExpress Co. v. Robertson, 264 U. S.
541; Ewing v. Howard, 7 Wall. 499, 503. The truthfulness of the answers and their effect will be open for consideration on the new trial.
Reversed.
THE MALCOLM BAXTER, JR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 459. Argued April 16, 1928.-Decided May 21, 1928.
A schooner bound with cargo from New Orleans to Bordeaux developed leaks, because of unseaworthiness existing when she broke
ground, and was forced to take refuge in Havana for repairs.
Before the repairs were completed, an embargo was put into effect
by the United States. Prevented by this from continuing to Bordeaux, she proceeded to' New York and was there libeled by the
cargo-owners. The unseaworthiness was unknown to her owner or
master when the voyage began, but could have been discovered by
due diligence. Held:

