54

OCTOBER TERM, 1027.
Syllabus.

277 U. S.

here involved and as there is no showing that there exist
any similar deeds of trust securing loans for less than five
years, no constitutional right of the plaintiff is invaded
because the statute may also include loans actually similar to those exempted except in regard to their term, and
which, because similar in fact, could not be treated differently from those exempt. Clark v. Kansas City, 176
U. S. 114,. 117-118; Aluminum Co. v. Ramsey, 222 U. S.
251, 256; Murphy v. California 225 U. S. 623, 630;
Darnellv. Indiana,226 U. S. 390, 398; iTfountai. Timber
Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, 242; R oberts& Schaefer
Co. v. Emmerson., 271 U. S. 50, 54-55. One who would
strike down a statute must show not only that he is
affected by it, but that as applied to him, the statute
exceeds the power of the State. This rule, acted upon
as early as Austin v. The Aldermen,.7 Wall. 694, and definitely stated in Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305, 314,
has been consistently followed since that time. In my
opinion, it is sufficient alone to require affirmance of the
judgment.
MR. JusTicE HOLM-ES and MR. JUSTICE STONE join in
this opinion.

CITY OF GAINESVILLE v. BROWN-CRUMMER
INVESTMENT COMPANY E AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 433. Argued April 13, 1928.--Decided May 14, 1928.

1. Jurisdiction of the District Court on removal should appear affirmatively; it may be questioned at any stage, and its absence cannot
be waived; but acquiescence may strengthen inferences from the
record of facts necessary to sustain jurisdiction. P. 59.
2. A controversy between the plaintiff and a citizen of another State,
as to the validity of certain warrants and their acquisition by that

GAINESVILLE v. BROWN-CRUMMER CO.
54

55

Counsel for Parties.

defendant as a bona fide purchaser, held separable from a controversy between the plaintiff and other defendants as to their liability
as guarantors of an agreement to hold the warrants in escrow.
P. 59.
3. Removal to the District Court on the ground of separable controversy between citizens of different States, removes the whole suit.
Jud. Code, ยง 28. P. 60.
20 F. (2d) 497, reversed.

275 U. S. 516, to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming in part, and in part
reversing a judgment in a suit brought by the City which
was removed to the District Court by the above-named
respondent, upon the ground of diversity of citizenship.
The suit concerned certain warrants isued by the City,
which it sought to have canceled as invalid. The removing defendant made good its claim as bona fide purchaser,
and the judgment in its favor was affirmed. Two other
defendants, who were residents of the State, and whom
the City sought to hold as guarantors of escrow conditions under which the warrants were deposited, were also
successful in the District Court; but as to them the judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
the cause ordered dismissed for want of jurisdiction, that
court being of the opinion that their part of the case-was
not removable.
CER

RmAR,

Mr. W. 0. Davis, with whom Mr. Cecil Murphy was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Alex F. Weisberg, with whom Messrs. James G.
Martin and Rhodes S. Baker were on the brief, for BrownCrummer Investment Company.
Mr. H. 0. Head, with whom Messrs. F. C. Dillard and
Rice Maxey were on the brief, for H. 0. Head, Executor.
Mr. J. L. Parrishwas on the brief for Southern Surety
Company.

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.CHmF JusTIcE TAi

277 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was begun by the City of Gainesville, Texas,
in a state court of Texas against the Southern Construction Company, a partnership consisting of Harry D. Levy
and Lester Levy, and against H. W. Head and the Southern Surety Company, all of whom were citizens of Texas,
except the Surety Company, which was an Iowa corporation. The action grew out of a contract between the city
and the Southern Construction Company for street improvements. The city issued city time warrants payable
to bearer, to pay the contractor. The contract was partly
executed and the improvements partly constructed. A
second contract was then made by which some of the warrants were to be issued before the rest of the work was
done and were to be placed in escrow to be delivered to
the contracting company as the work should be completed
and approved. The performance of the escrow conditions was guaranteed to the city by H. W. Head, and the
Southern Surety Company of Iowa became his surety
on this guaranty.
There is in the record a signed stipulation of the parties
descriptive of the details of the proceedings, which in
part is as follows:
"Default judgment in said cause was rendered by said
court in favor of the plaintiff against all defendants for
$15,000.00 and against the Southern Construction Company for $4,090, which judgment upon appeal by said
Head and said Southern Surety Company was reversed
by the Court of Civil Appeals for the Sixth Supreme
Judicial District as to said Head and said Southern Surety
Company, but was affirmed as to said Southern Construction Company. See Head v. City of Gainesville, 254
S. W. 323. Upon the remand of said cause to the District Court for Cooke County, H. 0. Head, as executor,

GAINESVILLE v. BROWN-CRUIVIMER CO.
54

57

Opinion of the Court.

made himself a party in lieu of H. W. Head, who had died
in the meantime, and he and the Southern Surety Company filed an answer to the petition. Thereupon, the
plaintiff amended its petition making Brown-Crummer
Investment Company, a Kansas corporation, a party defendant, and said Brown-Crummer Investment Company
within the time allowed by law filed its petition to remove
said cause to this court [i. e. the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Texas] upon the ground
of a separable controversy. After a transcript of the
proceedings was filed in this court) a motion to remand
made by the plaintiff was overruled. All parties having
repleaded in this court with the exception of the Southern
Construction Company, which did not appear, it is agreed
that the transcript of the proceedings in the district court
as well as all abandoned pleadings may be-omitted by the
clerk in making out the record for the circuit court of
appeals, as immaterial."
The Brown-Crummer Company was made a party by
the city on the ground that it had in its possession $15,000
of the city warrants which the city .did not owe because
the paving contract had not been completed. The city
sought to have them delivered up to be cancelled to prevent their sale to a bona fide purchaser. The Company
was a dealer in municipal securities at Wichita, Kansas,
and claimed to be owner as bona fide purchaser of the
warrants, and when made a party sought judgment on
them in this case against the city. It is upon the validity
of those warrants that the chief issue in the case turns.
Upon the removal of this cause from the state to the
federal court, the defendant Head sought to avoid liability, on his guaranty -to return $15,000 of warrants of the
city, and that of his surety, the Southern Surety Company, by the contention that the warrants in question
were illegally issued, void under state law and of no value.
In all its petitions but fhe last, the city had alleged that

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1027.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

its warrants were valid. In its later pleading, however, it
changed its attitude somewhat and pleaded in the alternative that if the court should hold the warrants void,
they should as against the Brown-Crummer Company be
so declared aiid asked that they be cancelled.
Both the issue between the city and the Brown-Crummer
Company on the warrants and that between the city and
Head and the Iowa surety company for breach of their
guaranty were tried to a jury in the district court. The
court directed a verdict on the warrants in favor of the
Brown-Cunimmer Company and gave judgment against
the city for $13,125 with interest. On the claim of the
city under the guaranty against Head and the Surety
Company, the court directed a verdict for the defendants
and gave judgment of dismissal against the city.
The case was carried to the Circuit Court of Appeals
of the Fifth Circuit. That court in its opinion dealt
at some length with the questions whether*the city warrants were valid under the state law and whether they
were held by Brown-Crummer Company as a bona fide
purchaser without notice of any infirmity in their origin.
The Court of Appeals held the warrants legal and adjudged that the city was estopped as against the company to plead irregularities in their issue. The court
therefore found no reversible error in the directed verdict
in favor of the Brown-Crummer Investment Company.
To that extent the judgment was affirmed.
The Court of Appeals dealt with the judgment in
favor of the executor, Head, and the Surety Company
against the city, which the city had sought to review and
seeks to review here, by remanding it to the district court
with instructions to dismiss the proceedings as between
the parties.
Objection is first made by the petitioner that there was
no separable controversy and so no jurisdiction. This
question does not seem to have been presented to and was

GAINESVILLE v. BROWN-CRUMMER CO.
54

59

Opinion of the Court.

certainly not considered by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
By the stipulation made in the federal distric- court
below, the transcript of the proceedings in the state
district court from which the removal was had, as well
as all abandoned pleadings, were omitted by the' clerk in
making out the record for the Circuit Court of Appeals as
immaterial. The petition for removal from the state
court to the federal court is not shown, nor is the motion
to remand. There was repleading by all the parties after
the motion to remand was overruled. The stipulation,
therefore, would seem to constitute an acquiescence in
the removal and indicates that the jurisdiction had been
conceded by-all parties, and -that the question had been
abandoned until it is now renewed in the briefs in this
Court. Of course a question of jurisdiction *can not be
waived. Jurisdiction should affirmatively appear, and
the question may be raised at any time. Grace v. American, CentralIns. Co., 109 U. S. 278, 283; M. C. & L. M.
Railway Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 382; Mattingly v.
Northwestern.Virginia Railroad Co., 158 U. S. 53, 56, 57.
Yet the action of the party in acquiescing may strengthen
inferences of necessary facts from the record to sustain
the jurisdiction, in the absence of a showing to the contrary. It sufficiently appears here that the controversy
between the Brown-Crummer Company of Kansas and
the city was as to the validity of the warrants and as to
the ownership by that company of them and their acquisition by that company as a bona fide purchaser for value
without notice. This was a controversy wholly between
citizens of different states which could be fully determined as between them. The question of the guaranty
as between the city and Heads estate and the surety on
the guaranty needed not to be considered or determined
in that controversy and had no bearing on it. The jurisdiction is sufficiently clear.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U.S.

A further objection is made that the Circuit Court of
Appeals erred in not deciding the issue made as between
the city and the executor, Head, and the Surety Company,
and in remanding it with directions to dismiss it.; This
objection is more serious. The necessary effect of the
removal on such a ground was to remove the whole suit.
This brought it all 'before the district court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals for complete disposition.
By the Act of July 27, 1866 (c. 288, 14 St. 306), a defendant of a different State from that of the plaintiff
was enabled to remove a separable controversy between
them, leaving the plaintiff, if he so desired, to proceed
in the state court against the other defendant or defendants on the other issues. But later came the Act of March
3, 1875 (c. 137, 18 St. pt. 2, p. 470) the language of which
was repeated in the present section 28 of the Judicial Code,
and with minor changes is now the law. (See 36 St.
1094.) It provides that "when in any suit mentioned in
this section there shall be a controversy which is wholly
between citizens of different States, and which can be
fully determined as between them, then either one or
more of the plaintiffs or defendants actually interested in
such controversy may remove said suit to the district
court of the United States for the proper district." In
Barney v. Latham, 103 U. S. 205, 211, this Court held that
in distinction from the removal provided in the Act of
1866, the Act of 1875 removed the whole case 'to the
federal court for judgment. This conclusion was confirmed in Brooks v. Clark, 119 U. S.502, 512, and in Torrence v. Shedd, 144 U. S.527, 530. The rule established
by these cases has never been varied or questioned.
It was the duty, therefore, of the Circuit Court of
Appeals to consider the other issue in this case, which it
erroneously remanded to the lower court to be dismissed.
We must then reverse the judgment and send the cause

DUGAN v. OHIO.
54

Syllabus.

back to the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings.
It may be suggested that we might consider the correctness of the judgment against the city in favor of the
Brown-Crummer Company on the city warrants and decide that. We have been advised by counsel that a case
involving the validity of such warrants under the-state
law is now pending in the Texas Supreme Court and that

the Circuit Court of Appeals should have the benefit of
that decision before passing on the question.

Without intimating that the decision of the Texas court
on the question of city warrants will be controlling under
the circumstances of this case, we deem.it better to remand the whole case to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
further proceedings and complete disposition.
Reversed.
DUGAN.v. OHIO.
ERROR TO THB SUPREME COURT OF O i.

No. 766. Argued April 10, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
Petitioner was convicted and fined by the mayor of a city for a violation of the Ohio liquor law committed within the city.limits. Th.e
legislative powers of the city were exercised by a commission of
five, of whom the mayor was one, and its executive powers by the
commission and a manager, who was the active executive. The
functions of the mayor, as such, were judicial only; his sole c6ipensation was a salary fixed by the vote of the other commissioners,
and payable out of a general fund to which the fines accumulated
in his court under all laws contributed, the salary being the same
whether the trials before hm resulted in convictions or acquittals.
Held, that the mayor's relations to the fund and to the financial
policy of the city. were too remote to warrant a presumption of
bias toward conviction in prosecutions before him as judge; and
,that objection to .the conviction in this case as wanting in due
process of law must be overrifled. . Tumei' v. Ohio, 273 U. 5. 510,
distinguished. P. 63.
117 Oh, t.503, affirmed.

