OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

277 U. S.

The direct operation or literal meaning of the words used
do not measure the purpose or scope of its provisions.
Under the principles established and applied by this
Court, the Fourth Amendment safeguards against all evils
that are like and equivalent to those embraced within the
ordinary meaning of its words. That construction is consonant with sound reason and in full accord with the
course of decisions since McCulloch v. Maryland. That
is the principle directly applied in the Boyd case.
When the facts in these cases are truly estimated, a fair
application of that principle decides the constitutional
question in favor of the petitioners. With great deference, I think they should be given a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I concur in the opinions of MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and
MR. JusTICE BRANDmis.

I agree also with that of MRi.

JUSTICE BUTLER so far as it deals with the merits. The
effect of the order granting certiorari was to limit the
argument to a single question, but I do not understand
that it restrains the Court from a consideration of any
question which we find to be presented by the record, for,
under Jud. Code, § 240(a), this Court determines a case
here on certiorari "with the same power and authority,
and with like effect, as if the cause had been brought
[here] by unrestricted writ of error or appeal."

KINNEY-COASTAL OIL COMPANY ET AL. v.
KIEFFER ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 64. Argued October 25, 1927 -Decided

June 4, 1928.

1. The Acts of July 17, 1914, 38 Stat. 509, and February 25, 1920,
41 Stat. 437, read together, disclose an intention to divide public
oil and gas lands affected into two estates for the purposes of dis-

KINNEY &c. OIL: CO. ii. KIEFFER.
488

489

Statementof the Case.

posal, viz., a dominant estate including the underlying oil and gas
deposits, and a se rvient estate, including the surface. P. 504.
2. Where one person has a homestead patent and another an oil and
g'as lease covering the same land and both drafted in keeping with
these 'Acts, the lessee has the right to extract and remove the oil
and gas, and the appurtenant right to use the surface so far as may
be necessary to that end; these rights are excepted and reserved
from the estate granted by the homestead patent; their exercise
involves no taking of anything granted thereby; the owner of the
surface'is not entitled to compensation for the minerals- taken or
'the use' of the surface pursuant to the lease, and, though he may
rightfully demand compensation for the damages caused by the
mining operations to his~crops and agricultural improvements, he
cannot include improvements placed on the land after the mining
operations are under way, for purposes plainly incompatible with
'the right of the lessee tb proceed, with due care, 'until the oil and
gas are exhausted. P. 504.
3. Semble that the lessee would be liable for any damage to the surface testate caused by negligence in conducting mining operations.
P. 505.
4. Lessees under the Act of 1920, supra, of a tract within the- producing sructure of an oil field, entered, drilled -a producing well,
land were preparing to continue and extend operations under the
lease, necessitating use of practically the entire surface, all with the
,knowledge .and acquiescence of, the owner, of the surface under
the Act of 1914, supra, when the surface-owner- platted part of the
land as a town-site and began selling lots to purchasers who erected
dwellings for residential and business purposes, and, was contemplating like action as to the other part. Interference witt the
mining operations' and irreparable damage to the lessees was thus
threatened. Held: That the lessees were entitled to an injunction
to prevent the threatened occupancy and use of the premises for
purposes incompatible with their right to-continue mining and their
necessary use of the surface. P. 505.
5. The condition imposed by the Act of 1914,- upra, that the mining
lessee shall pay the damages to crops and agricultural improvements' of the surface-owner, caused by the lessee's entry occupancy
of surface and mining, or shallgive a bond therefor in an action
instituted in any competent court to ascertain and fix such damages, is not satisfied by the bond approved by the Secretary of the
Interior at the issuance of the lease, but may be complied with by
giving bond and ascertainment and. settlement of damages in the

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

277 U. S.

injunction suit. A separate action at law to assess such damages
is not necessary. P. 506.
6. A court of equity, in a suit of which it has taken cognizance, may
administer complete relief, even though this involve determination
of legal rights not otherwise within the range of its authority; and
in awarding relief to one party, may impose conditions protecting
and giving effect to correlative rights of the other. P. 507.
9 F. (2d) 260, reversed; 1 F. (2d) 795, modified.

This case presents a controversy over the relative rights
conferred by an oil and gas lease and by a homestead
patent for the same lands-both issued by the United
States and each containing a reservation of the rights conferred by the other.
The lands in question are two adjoining forty-acre
tracts within the Salt Creek oil field, in Natrona County,
Wyoming, which became a producing field, widely known
as such, before any step was taken to secure either the
lease or the patent.
By executive order issued July 2, 1910, under the act of
June 25, 1910, c. 421, 36 Stat. 847, these lands-being
then public lands of the United States-were withdrawn
from settlement, location, sale or entry under the existing
public land laws and were reserved as being valuable for
oil to await further legislation respecting the disposal of
lands of that character. The contemplated legislation
came in part in the Act of July 17, 1914, c. 142, 38 Stat.
509, and in part in the act of February 25, 1920, c. 85,
41 Stat. 437.
The act of 1914 looks to the severance and separate disposal of the surface and the underlying minerals. It provides that lands of the United States withdrawn, classified or reported as valuable for oil, gas or other designated
mineral deposits shall be subject to disposal under the
non-mineral land laws, but that the disposal shall be with
"a reservation to the United States of the deposits on
account of which the lands were withdrawn or classified
or reported as valuable, together with the right to prospect

KINNEY &c. OIL CO. v. KIEFFER.
488

Statement of the Case.

for, mine and remove the same," and that such deposits
shall be "subject to disposal by the United States only
as shall be hereafter expressly directed by law." The act

further provides:
"Any person qualified to acquire the reserved deposits
may enter upon said lands with-a view of prospecting for
the same upon the approval by the Secretary of the Interior of a bond or undertaking to be filed with him as
security for the payment of all damages to the crops-and
improvements on such lands by reason- of such prospecting, the measure of any such damage to be fixed by agreement of parties or by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Any person who has acquired from the United States the
title to or the right to mine and remove the reserved deposits, should the United' States dispose of the mineral
deposits in lands, may reenter and occupy so much of the
surface thereof as may be required for all purposes reasonably incident to the mining and removal of the minerals
therefrom, and mine and remove such minerals, upon
payment of damages caused thereby to the owner of the
land, or upon giving a good and sufficient bond or undertaking therefor in an action instituted in any competent
court to ascertain and fix said damages."
The act of 1920 relates particularly to the disposal of
oil, gas and other designated mineral deposits in the
lands of the United States, including those specified in the
act of 1914. In the main it provides that the disposal of
such deposits shall be through leases entitling the lessees
to extract and remove the- deposits and to make such use
of the surface as may be necessary for that purpose, and
requiring the lessees to pay fixed royalties, and in some
instances a further compensation, to the United States.
The parts. of the act having a present bearing are as
follows:
"See. 17. That all unappropriated deposits of oil or
gas situated within the known geologic structure of a pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

277 U. S.

ducing oil or gas field . . . , not subject to preferential lease, may be leased by the Secretary of the Interior
to the highest responsible bidder by competitive bidding
. ., such leases to be conditioned upon the payment
by the lessee of such bonus as may be accepted and of
such royalty as may be fixed in the lease, .
. Leases
shall be for a period of twenty years with the preferential
right in the lessee to renew the same for successive periods
of ten years upon such reasonable terms and conditions
as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior,
unless otherwise provided, by law at the time of the expiration of such periods.
"SEc. 29. ......
Provided, That said Secretary, in
his discretion, in making any lease under this Act, may
reserve to the United States the right to lease, sell, or
otherwise dispose of the surface of the lands embraced
within such lease under existing law or laws .hereafter
enacted, in so far as said surface is not necessary for use
of ,the lessee in extracting and removing the deposits
therein: Providedfurther, That if such reservation is made
it shall be so determined before the offering of such
lease:
"Sec. 32. That the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to prescribe necessary and proper rifles and regulations and to do any and all things necessary to carry
out and accomplish the purpose of this act, also to fix and
determine the boundary lines of any structure, or oil or
gas field, for the purposes of this act: .
.
"See. 34. That the provisions of this act shall also
apply to all deposits of coal, phosphate, sodium, oil, oil
shale, or gas in the lands of the United States, which lands
may have -been or may be disposed of under laws reserving to the United States such deposits, with the right to
prospect for, mine, and remove the same, subject to such
conditions as are or may hereafter be provided by such
laws reserving such deposits,"

KINNEY &c. OIL CO. v. KIEFFER.
488

Statement of the Case.

April 2, 1920, the Secretary of the -Interior, pursuant
to § 32 of the act of 1920, determined the boundary lines
of the known oil structure or deposit in the Salt Creek
field. The lines so determined included 'the two fortyacre tracts- in question.
December 29, 1921, as a result of competitive bidding
invited under § 17 of that, adt, and in consideration of a
bonus of $51,750 paid to the'United States, the Secretary
of the Interior, conformably to existing regulations,'
awarded and issued to Oscar W. Rohn a lease of the oil
and gas in these tracts and in another forty-acre tract in
the same field. The lease was given for a term of twenty
years, with a conditional privilege of renewal under § 17,
and granted to the lessee the exclusive right to drill for,
extract and remove the oil and gas deposits in: the three
tracts, together with the right to construct and maintain
on the surface "all works, buildings, plants, waterways,
roads, telegraph or telephone lines, pipe lines, reservoirs,
tanks, pumping stations or other structures" needed in
such .mining operations. It required the lessee to exercise reasonable diligence in drilling and operating wells
for oil and gas and to pay to the United States a royalty
of 25% on the oil produced and a royalty varying from
12 % to 16%% on the gas; and it reserved to the United
States the right to dispose of "the surface of the lands"
under existing or future laws "in so far as said surface is
not necessary for the the use of the lessee in the extraction
and- removal of the oil and gas." It: also required the
lessee"To:comply with all statutory requirements and regulations thereunder, if the lands. embraced herein have
been or shall hereafter be disposed of under the laws reserving to the United States the deposits of oil and gas
therein, subject to such conditions as are or may hereafter be provided by the laws reserving such oil or gas."
Regulations of March 11, 1920, §§ 13-17, 47 L. D. 446.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

277 U. S.

At the time the lease was issued the lessee, pursuant to
the existing regulations,2 executed, with approved surety,
a bond to the United States in the amount of $5,000"for the use and benefit of the United States and of any
.
entryman or patentee of any portion of the land .
heretofore entered or patented with a reservation of the
oil and gas deposits to the United States "-conditioned
on the lessee's faithful compliance with "all the provisions" of the lease.
August 9, 1922, that lease was consolidated with others
into a new lease of like character and tenor issued by the
Secretary of the Interior to the Kinney-Coastal Oil Company, and a bond like that above described was given by
the company, with approved security, to secure its faithful compliance with all the provisions of the consolidated
lease.
In 1918 Michael F. Kieffer made application at the
local land office to make a preliminary homestead entry
of the two forty-acre tracts in question and other contiguous lands. He knew the lands were within the executive withdrawal of July 2, 1910, and the Salt Creek oil
field; and he assented that if his application was granted
the oil and gas deposits should be reserved by the United
States for disposal under future laws as contemplated in
the act of 1914. The preliminary homestead entry was
allowed with that reservation (see Regulations of March
20, 1915, paragraphs 5-8, 44 L. D. 32, 34) and in due
course was carried to a final entry, on which a homestead
patent was issued to Kieffer October 12, 1923. The
patent was for 320 acres, including the two forty-acre
tracts in question, and contained the following exception
and reservation:
"Also excepting and reserving to the United States all
the oil and gas in the lands so patented, and to, it, or
persons authorized by it, the right to prospect for, mine
2

Regulations of March 11, 1920, §§ 16, 17, 47 L. D. 447, 451.

KINNEY &c. OIL CO.. v. KIEFFER.
488

495

Statement of the Case.

and remove such deposits from the same upon compliance
with the 6onditions and subject to the provisions and
limitations of the act of July 17, 1914."
After his preliminary homestead entry was allowed,
Kieffer constructed a residence and several outbuildings
on part of, the lands included therein other than the
tracts in question, and resided there with his family. He
enclosed the tracts in question with a barbed wire fence
and in each of two years planted and harvested about
seven acres of oats thereon, but in no other way did he
improve or cultivate these tracts.
The Kinney-Coastal Oil Company, soon after receiving
its lease, entered on one of the tracts in question, stored
thereon equipment and 'supplies required in operations
under the lease, erected buildings needed for its employees
and began drilling for oil and gas. Kieffer knew of the
lease and acquiesced in these operations under it. One
well was completed in the latter part of 1923 at a cost of
$32,152.66, and oil and gas were produced therefrom in
paying quantities. The company proceeded with the extraction of oil and gas from that well, and also made prep-.
aration for drilling others. Stakes were driven marking
places for eight more distributed over the tract in accordance with applicable regulations.
In January, 1924, Kieffer, without any concurrence by
the United States or by the company, platted that tract
as a townsite-with blocks, lots, streets and alleys--and
caused the plat to be filed and recorded in the office of the
clerk of the county. Although knowing of the producing
well and that the company was intending to proceed with
further drilling and operations under the lease, Kieffer
began selling and contracting to sell lots in the townsite
and encouraging purchasers to build thereon. Several
lots were sold or contracted to be sold and the purchasers
began hastily to place buildings thereon for residential
and business purposes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

277 U. S.

Thereupon the lessee company and another company
which had acquired an interest in the lease-one a corporate citizen of Maine and the other of Coloradobrought a suit in the federal district court for Wyoming
against Kieffer and others-all citizens of that State-to
prevent the sale and use for townsite purposes of the tract
on which operations under. the lease were proceeding, to
prevent a contemplated platting and disposal of the other
tract as a townsite, and to enforce the plaintiffs' right to
use all the surface of both tracts in the operations under
the lease-the use of all being alleged to be necessary.
There was also a prayer for general relief. The prayers
for specific relief were limited to the term of the lease.
The defendants answered jointly. The material portions of the answer were to the effect (a) that the court
was without jurisdiction, in that the value of the matter
in controversy was less than the jurisdictional requisite;
(b) that the bill was without equity, in that there was an
adequate if not exclusive remedy at law; (c) that a large
portion of the lands in question was without oil or gas
content; (d) that the platting, sale and use of the lands
for townsite purposes would not interfere with the full
enjoyment of the plaintiffs' rights or operations under the
lease; and (e) that the defendants "have at all times
been ready and willing that plaintiffs have the full, beneficial use of their lease upon their complying with the law,
and dfendants are now ready and willing to enter into
negotiations with plaintiffs with the view of fixing the
amount of damages which may be done by plaintiffs to
defendants' improvements, or submit said question to a
court of competent jurisdiction as provided in the Act of
July 17, 1914."
The district court, after a full hearing on the issues,
gave a decree awarding the plaintiffs, by way of injunction, most of the relief sought in their bill. 1 F. (2d)

KINNEY &c. OIL, CO. -v. KIEFFER.
488

Statement of the Case.

795. -The court found, as recited in the decree, that the
value of the matter in- controversy was in excess of thd
jurisdictional requisite; that the lands in question "are
practically all Within the producing structure of the Salt
Creek oil field"; that use of "practically the entire surface" is necessary "for the full development" of the
underlying oil and gas deposits an& for "reasonably economical/ efficient operations" under the lease; that the
buildings constructed'and intended to be constructed as
part of the townsite.venture will "take up space required
by plaintiffs in their lawful operations"'; that the occupancy and use of the lands' as a townsite will interfere
with such operations, will increase the expense of conducting them, and will enhance the danger of explosion
and fire which otherwise attends the production of oil and
gas, and that the plaintiffs will thus be subjected to continuing and irreparable injury ,and daia'ge.
On an appeal by the defendants the. circuit- court of
appeals said:
"There is substantial evidence in support of the court's
finding that the tract is within the producing structure of
the oil fields, and that the entire, surface will be necessary
for the use of plaintiffs in its development and in the production and removal of the oil and gas that will be found.
There was testimony -to the contrary, but the court's findings of fact have ample support. It had better opportunity to weigh the evidence than we have, and we accept
those findings."
-

Then coming to the equitable remedy invoked by the
plaintiffs that court held that the act of 1914 prescribes a
mode of procedure for enforcing the lessee's right to us6
the surface; that this procedure is intended to be exclusive
and in the nature of 6 condemnation proceeding, which is
regarded as a proceeding at law rather than in equity;
and that by the course ,taken in the district court Kieffer

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioners.

277 U. S.

and his grantees were denied a constitutional right to have
the issues tried by a jury. Accordingly the decree was
reversed with a direction to dismiss the bill and leave the
plaintiffs to their statutory remedy. 9 F. (2d) 260.
Mr. Edward M. Freeman, with whom Mr. Paul P.
Prosserwas on the brief, for petitioners.
The remedy provided by the Act of 1914 is not a legal
action in the nature of condemnation proceedings by the
oil and gas lessee against the surface owner to condemn
the surface required for mineral exploitation; on the contrary, it is an action by the surface owner against the
lessee (and his surety on the bond required) to recover
judgment for the damages caused by the mineral exploitation to the crops and improvements of the surface
owner. The remedy is for the sole benefit of the surface
owner and is not available to the lessee. The lessee may
take possession of the surface to the extent from time to
time required, and the surface owner may then avail himself of this remedy against the lessee.
Under the construction of the Circuit Court of Appeals
the lessee, would be prevented from taking possession
until the damages, if any, to be caused the surface owner
by the mineral exploitation had been ascertained. Such
a scheme would work great injury not only to the lessee
but also to the United States, as the owner of the oil alid
gas, because of its royalty interest, and to the State, because of its share of the royalty. The oil might be lost
meanwhile through drainage.
Again, the procedure indicated by the Circuit Court
of Appeals is highly objectionable in that a jury would
be asked to speculate upon damages which had not yet
occurred, and the ascertainment of which would rest
largely, if not entirely, upon conjecture. Moreover, it
is possible that the surface owner might not be entitled
to recover any damages whatsoever. No one would seri-

KINNEY &c. OIL CO.,v. KIEFFER.
488

Argument for Petitioners.

ously argue that the lessee would have to pay him for the
mineral content; apparently the only damages recoverable would be for injury to crops and improvements.
There might be no crops or improvements.
The suggestion that the United States or its lessee must
purchase the surface or pay the surface owner compensation for its use is wholly untenable.
Upon the exhaustion of the oil and gas in the leased
land, the estate of the United States and its lessees will
terminate, including their incidental estate in the surface,
since their only interesftin that relates to the mining of
the oil and gas. ChartiersBlock Coal Co.v. Mellon, 152
Pa. 286; Moore v. Indian Camp Coal Co., 75 Oh. St. 493.
Upon the grant or reservation of the mineral*rights in
land, even in the absence of an express provision, the
owner of the mining right is entitled, as an appurtenant
to such grant or reservation, to the'use of the surface
reasonably necessary to extract and remove the minerals.
2, Snyder on Mines, 848 et seq.; Mills-Willingham, Law
of Oil and Gas, 250; 40 C. J., 984; Marvin v. Brewster
Iron Mining Co., 55 N. Y. 538; ChartiersBlock Coal Co.
v. Mellon, supra; Porter v. Mack Mfg. Co., 65 W. Va.
636; Lovelace v. Southwestern Petroleum Co., 267 Fed.
513. Congress was merely acting from abundance of
caution in expressly providing for the use of the surface.
The Department of the Interior has followed this construction. Compare the procedure prescribed by the
Stockraising Homestead Act, 39,Stat. 862.
The conduct of the respondents was wrongful and in
violation of petitioners' rights; the petitioners had no
plain, adequate and complete remedy at law; the alleged
statutory remedy provided by the Act of 1914 was doubtful; therefore, the District, Court, sitting as a court of
equity, had jurisdiction and its decree was proper.

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Respondents.

277 U.S.

Mr. C. D. Murane, with whom Messrs. G. R. Hagens
and R. H. Nichols were on the brief, for respondents.
A person cannot be enjoined from doing a lawful act
unless the act is being done unnecessarily and maliciously
to vex, annoy and injure another. There can be no contention that the respondents were acting maliciously or
otherwise than in the honest belief that they were exercising a legal right. They own the fee simple to this land,
they have a right to cultivate it, build houses upon it, sell
it as a whole or in part; the only restriction placed upon
them by their patent is that others shall have the right to
occupy so much of the surface as is actually necessary to
prospect for, mine and remove the oil and gas "upon payment of damages caused thereby to the owner of the
land." The Court will not, by its injunction, deprive
respondents of any of the beneficial rights granted to
them by their patent.
An injunction will not be granted when a greater injury will be done thereby to defendant than would be
done to the plaintiff by denying it. The statutes provide
for an action at law in cases of this character; the mine
lease owner must pay the damage caused; and if the
parties cannot agree upon the amount of damages, then
the matter should be tried by a jury in a court of law,
competent to ascertain and fix them.
If we were to assume that petitioners had the right to
this land without compensation, they offered no evidence
to show that they had ever made a demand for possession
of any portion of it and been refused. Respondents,
moreover, proved that possession was never denied and
that respondents never had any intention of denying ittheir only intention being to require petitioners to pay
such reasonable damage as they may cause to respondents' lands and improvements. A court of equity will
not interpose to protect a person from a groundless
fear.

KINNEY &c. OIL CO. v. KIEFFER.
488

Argument for Respondents.

There are two distinct situations contemplated in the
Act of July 17, 1914, and the Leasing Act of February 25,
1920, was enacted with- those two conditions in mind.
The first condition is where a prospecting: permit is issued
upon lands patented with the oil rights reserved to the
Government. This permit is issued for a period of two
years and is temporary in character. It was-not contemplated that, uider it, actual appropriation of any of the
land would be necessary but only a temporary possession
for the drilling of -one or two wells, and, that - just compensation to the -owner of the surface would, be made for
the damage done to crops or improvements by the holder
of the permit. The other situation contenplated- a lease
which was to extend for a period of twenty years, and subject to renewal for ten-year periods. The possession
would be for so long a time that it amounted to an appropriation of the amount of land actually necessary for drilling operations, production;, and the removal of oil and
gas. Therefore, the oil and gas lessee is required to ,pay
for the actual damage done to the owner of the land.
He has an election, after his discovery, as to whether it
will be to his advantage to mine and remove the oil, and
pay the damages caused to the surface owner, or the
"owner of the land," as said in the statute, or abandon
his oil and gas lease. The owner of the land has no election except that he may require the lessee to designate
what portion of his land will be necessary for the use of
the oil lessee' n-mining and removing, and to pay hin all
such damages as he may sustain, before he will be permitted to use the surface. In both of these cases an adequate means is provided for ascertaining the damage.
If the injunction were reinstated as granted by the trial
court, Kieffer's patent would be a "scrap of paper," conferring no beneficial rights, despite liayments to the Gov-.
ernment for the lands and his outlay for improvements.
So far as these lands are concerned, under this decree, re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Respondents.

277 U. S.

spondents' only right is the privilege of paying county
and state taxes for the next twenty years.
Petitioners' contention during the trial of the cause,
and the findings of the court, were to the effect that respondents can only use the land for agricultural purposes.
They introduced testimony to show that they needed all
of the surface for their drilling, development and production of oil, and. the court made a findifng that all was
necessary for that purpose. If this be true, no part of
the land would be available for crops; the entire tract
would be appropriated by petitioners, and the exclusive
possession, without any compensation whatsoever to the
owner of the fee.
How can the surface owner be advised of the amount
of land required for drilling and production purposes?
Must he stand by for the twenty-year period with the
pleasure of paying the taxes upon the land, to ascertain
the needs of the lessee? A more reasonable interpretation of the statute is that the lessee must negotiate with
the surface owner as to the value of the land, quantity
required, and quantity required for drilling, etc., and that
if they cannot agree, then the lessee must bring his action
as indicated in the law of 1914, alleging the quantity of
land which he requires, and asking a court of competent
jurisdiction to call a jury to assess the damage that the
surface owner will sustain.
By the decree which petitioners desire to have reinstated a Bank has been enjoined from receiving payments
upon contracts of sales of portions of this land, the
County Clerk has been enjoined from receiving deeds,
town plats of other conveyances or evidences of title, a
Utilities Company has been enjoined from laying pipe
lines, with the permission of Kieffer, over his land for the
purpose of conducting water and gas. In what way do
these acts hinder or prevent drilling for the production
of oil? The Utilities Company is even commanded to
remove its pipe lines already laid, and there is not one

KINNEY &c. OIL CO. v. KIEFFER.
488

Opinion of the Court.

word of testimony that it has in any way interfered with
operations of the petitioners. Cf. Brookshire Oil Co. v.
CasmaliaRanch and Oil Development Co., 156 Cal. 211;
Lindley, Mines, 3d. ed., :§ § 814, 827; Chartier's Block
Coal Co. v. Mellon, 152 Pa. 286; Williams v. South Penn
Oil Co., 52 W. Va. 181; Globe Newspaper Co. v. Walker,
210 U. S. 356; Haycraft v. United States, 22 Wall. 81;
The Harrisburg,119 U. S. 199; Van Norton v. Morton, 99
U. S. 378; New Orleansv. ConstructionCo., 129 U. S. 45.
The right of Kieffer to have his damages determined
.y a jury and paid or secured as the statute directs, is a
legal right given him by the Act of July 17, 1914. If
the parties cannot agree, the surface owner in possession
has a constitutional right to a trial by jury before his
possession could be disturbed. Singer Sewing Machine
Co. v. Benedict, 229 U. S. 481; Travelers'ProtectiveAss'n
v. Gilbert, 111 Fed. 269; Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. Board
of Comm'rs, 222 Fed. 651;'Traction Co. V. Mining Co.,
196 U. S. 239; Kohl v. United States, 91 U. S. 367;
Filbin v. United States, 265 Fed. 354.
A court of equity-has no jurisdiction where a "plain,
adequate and complete remedy may be had at law."
Rev. Stats., § 723; Comp. Stats., § 1244; United States
v. Bitter Root Co., 200 U. S. 451.
We desire to call the Court's attention to the specific
provision of the statute which says "upon- paying the
damage caused to the owner." That is a condition precedent to his right to operate, and justly so. Courtright
v. Deeds, 37 Ia. 503; Sands v. McClelan (N. Y.) 6 Cow.
582; Little v. Wilcox, 119 Pa. St. 439; Appeal of Conrow
(Pa.) -"3 Atl. -13.
after making the foregoing statement of the case, delivered the opinion of the
Court.
MR. JUsTICE VAN DEvANTER,

The findings of fact by the district court before described have such support in the evidence that they should

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

be accepted by us. Two were accepted by the circuit
court of appeals, as shown in the quotation before made
from its opinion, and the others were not considered.
Those not considered are equally well supported.
The chief question presented is whether the act of 1914
prescribes an exclusive remedy at law applicable to the
situation disclosed and thus prevents the plaintiffs from
suing in equity, as held by the circuit court of appeals.
The acts of 1914 and 1920 are to be read togethereach as the complement of the other. So read they disclose an intention to divide oil and gas lands into two
estates for the purposes of disposal--one including the
underlying oil and gas deposits and the other the surface-and to make the latter servient to the former, which
naturally would be suggested by their physical relation
and relative values. The act of 1914, in providing for
the disposal of the surface, directs that there be a reservation of the oil and gas deposits, "together with the right
to prospect for, mine and remove the same," meaning, of
course, the right to use so much of the surface as may be
necessary for such operations. And the act of 1920, in
providing for the leasing of the oil and gas deposits, provides (§ 29) for a reservation of the surface "in so far
as said surface is not necessary for the use of the lessee
in extracting and removing the deposits." In effect therefore a servitude is laid on the surface estate for the benefit of the mineral estate to the end, as the acts otherwise
show, that the United States may realize, through the
separate leasing, a proper return from the extraction and
removal of the minerals.
The lease held by the plaintiffs and the homestead patent issued to Kieffer were drafted in keeping with the
acts thus understood. In both the required reservations
are plainly expressed. Under the lease the plaintiffs have
the right to extract and remove the oil and gas, as also
the appurtenant right to use the surface so far as may

KINNEY &c. OIL CO. v. KIEFFER.
488

Opinion of the Court.

be necessary. In the homestead patent these rights are
distinctly excepted and reserved from the estate thereby
granted. Their exercise involves no taking of anything
granted by- the patent. Nor is the one who under the
patent owns -the surface, 'with those rights reserved, entitled to compensationfJor the minerals taken or the use
made of the surface. -The only compensation which he
rightfully -may demand is, as the act of, 1914 says, for
"damages caused" by the mining operations. - The sentence next preceeding that -in which these words occur
makes it fairly plain that they refer to damages to "crops
and improvements," and the title to the act, -coupled with
the reference to "crops" shows that 'agricultural" improvements are the kind intended. Certainly it is not
intended to include improvements placed on the land,
after the , mining operations are -under way, for purposes
plainly incompatible with the right to proceed with those
operations until the oil and gas are exhausted. It well
may be that, if the operations are, negligently conducted
and damage is done thereby to the surface estate, there
will be liability therefor. But such liability will ensue,
not from admissible mining operations and use of the surface, but from the inadmissible negligence causing the
damage.
By this suit the plaintiffs are not seeking to acquire a
right to use the surface but to protect from wrongful obstruction and impairment the right which they already
have. Nor are they seeking to enforce their right to enter
and begin mining operations. More than a year before
the suit was begun they entered, took in mining equipment and supplies, erected houses for their workmen, began drilling for oil and gas and at large cost completed a
producing well-all with the knowledge and acquiescence
of Kieffer, then the sole-surface claimant. After their
operations were thus under way, Kieffer platted as a townsite the forty acres where they were operating. and began

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

actively to sell and contract to sell the lots as platted; and
the purchasers began to erect buildings thereon for residential and business purposes. Kieffer was also contemplating taking like action as to the other forty acres. It
was then that the suit was begun. It is directed chiefly
against the sale and use of the surface for townsite purposes and is based on the theory-sustained by the findings made on the proofs submitted at the trial-that practically the whole eighty acres is within the producing
structure of the oil field, that use of practically the entire
surface is necessary for conducting reasonably efficient
operations under the lease and that the sale and occupancy of the surface for townsite purposes will seriously
interfere with the plaintiffs' right to use the same in their
mining operations and will obstruct and impede the further prosecutionA of those operations and thereby subject
the plaintiffs to continuing and irreparable injury.
With this understanding of the situation and of the
chief object of the suit, we think it plain that the plaintiffs were entitled to the interposition and aid of a court
of equity to prevent the threatened occupancy and use
of the surface for purposes incompatible with their right
to continue the mining operations under the lease and to
make any necessary use of the surface. Certainly they
were without the plain, adequate and complete remedy
at law which under § 267 of the Judicial Code precludes
resort to a suit in equity.
The circuit court of appeals-based its decision on the
part of the act of 1914 which-after directing that the
patent for the surface estate shall contain a reservation of
the underlying oil and gas deposits, with the right to
prospect for, mine and remove the same-provides that
lessees of the United States may enter, occupy so much
of the surface as may be required, and mine and remove
the minerals, "upon payment of damages caused thereby
to the owner of the land, or upon giving a good and suffi-

KINNEY &c. OIL CO. v. KIEFFER.
488

507

Opinion of the Court.

cient bond or undertaking therefor in an action instituted
in any competent court to ascertain and fix said damages."
The plaintiffs take the position that thebond given by
the lessee and approved by the Secretary of the Interior
when the lease was issued satisfied that provision. In
this the plain words of the provision are neglected. They
call for a bond to be given in a judicial proceeding wherein
the damages may be ascertained and fixed. The circuit
court of appeals so regarded them.
But we are unable to agree with that court's ruling that
the provision requires that the bond be given and the
damages assessed only in an action at law., The words of
the provision are " an action instituted in any competent
court;" and we think the matter is one which the district
court was and is competent to deal with in this suit.
It is a general rule that a court of equity, in a suit of
which it has and takes cognizance, may administer complete relief between the parties even though this involves
the determination of legal rights which otherwise would
not be within the range of its authority, Camp v. Boyd,
229 U. S. 530, 552; McGowan v. Parish, 237 U. S.285,
296; United States v. Union Pacific Ry. Co., 160 U. S. 1,
50, et seq. And under that rule a'court of equity in awarding relief to one party may impose conditions protecting
and giving effect to correlative rights of the other. Walden
v. Bodley, 14 Pet. 156, 164; Lynch v. Burt, 132 Fed. 417,
432; Burnes v. Burnes, 137 Fed. 781, 791.
So, while the provision on which the decision of the circuit court of appeals rests cannot be held to be an obstacle to the maintenance of this suit in a court of equity,
we think it shows a need for modifying the decree of the
district court by providing therein for an ascertainment in
this suit of any damages which the plaintiffs' entry and
operations under the lease may have caused to the agricultural improvements or crops of the owner of the surface estate, and also by conditioning the relief awarded

508

OCTOBER TERM, .927.
Syllabus.

277 U. S.

the plaintiffs upon their giving a good and sufficient bond
or undertaking to pay such damages within a limited time
after the same are ascertained.
The evidence appears not to have been taken with a
dew to an ascertainment of the damages, but there is
cestimony tending to show that the owner of the surface
is asserting a claim for damages done at the time the plaintiffs entered or soon thereafter. It of course is admissible
to fix the damages by agreement. But if this be not done
there will be need for a hearing on that question.
We conclude that the decree of the circuit court of ap-

peals should be reversed and that the cause should be
remanded to the district court with directions to modify
its decree in accordance with what is said in this opinion.

Decree of circuit court of appeals reversed.
Decree of district court modified.

NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 228. Argued April 12, 1928.-Decided June 4, 1928.
The Revenue Act of 1921 provides that the gross income of a life
insurance company shall be the gross amount of income received
during the taxable year from interest, dividends, and rents, and
that the net income upon which its income tax is to be assessed
shall be the gross income less specified deductions, among which are
(1) the amount of interest received during the taxable year from
tax-exempt securities, and (2) an amount equal to 4% of the company's mean reserve funds, diminished, however, by the amount of
the first deduction, the interest from tax-exempt securities. In the
case at bar, the petitioner company, though allowed the first deduction, comprising the interest from its exempt state, municipal and
United States bonds, was not advantaged thereby; for, since the
same amount was subtracted in computing the second deduction,

