OCTOBER TERM, 1927.

66

Statement of the Case.
COMPARIA

DE

2771U. S.

NAVEGACION INTERIOR, S. A., v.

FIREMAN'S FUND INSURANCE COMPANY.*
CERTIORARI TO TIRE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 510 to 520, inclusive. Argued April 19, 1928.-Decided May 14,
1928.
1. A clause in a towage contract declaring that the towing boat shall
not be responsible in any way for loss or damage to the tow, does
not release the former from loss or damage due to the negligence
of her master or crew. P. 73.
2. For a loss thus occasioned, the insurers of the tow would be subrogated to the claim of her owner. Id.
3. The meaning of the terms "seaworthiness" and "perils of the
sea" applied to contracts of marine insurance, varies with the circumstances and the exceptional features of the risk known to both
parties. Pp. 75-81.
4. Where a small vessel, constructed for service as a tug on inland

waters, was insured for a voyage in tow over the open sea, under
policies which exacted extra-heavy premiums because of the extraordinary risks and were entered into after the underwriters had
made careful examination of her seaworthiness and had become
informed of her character and condition, held that the implied warranfy of '"seaworthiness" was satisfied if the vessel was as fit for
the voyage as reasonably could be expected of a vessel of her type,
though, owing to her construction, she was unsuited to marine navigation; and that the '"perils of the sea" against which she -was
insured included conditions of wind and water extremely dangerous
in her case though not so to ordinary sea-going vessels. Id.
19 F. (2d) 493, 496, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 518, to eleven decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing the District Court and
directing the dismissal of the libels. The suits were on
policies of marine insurance covering the tugboat "Wash

* The ten other suits were by the petitioner against ten other
insurance companies, severally.

COMPANIA DE NAVEGACION v. INS. CO.
66

67

Argument for Respondents.

Gray" which was lost in the Gulf of Mexico while in
tow from Tampico to Galveston for a -change of engines.

Mr. John D. Grace with .whom Messrs. M. A. Grace
and Edwin H. Gide were 6n the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. T. Catesby Jones,. with whom Messrs: Henry P.
Dart,Jr., Robert H. Kelley and James W. Ryan were on
the brief, for respbndents..
No peril of the sea was encountered. There was -no
catastrophe, suddenly encountered, which triumphed over
those safeguards by which skillful and vigilant seamen
usually bring ship and cargo to port in safety. The
Rosalig, 264 Fed. 285. It has long been settled that the
fact of sea-water entering a vessel's hull does not constitute in itself a peril of the sea. The Folmina, 212
U. S. 354; The Jungshoved, 290 Fed. 733.
The burden was on petitioner, to prove s&aworthiness.
Richelieu Navigation Co. v. Boston Insurance Co., 136
U. S. 408; Pacific Coast S. S. Co. v. Bancroft-Whitney
Co., 94 Fed. 180.
Wind and waves such as were encountered by the Wzsh
Gray and which mu'st be expected on a Voyage, have uniformly been held not to amount to a peril of the sea.
The Rosalia, 264 Fed. 285; The G. .. Booth, 171 U. S.
450; The Gutnare, 42 Fed. 861; Morsb'v. St. Paul Insurance Co., 124 Fed. 451; Higgie v. Ainerican Lloyds, 14
Fed. 143; The Rappahannock, 184 Fed. 291; Mr. Justice
Story, in The Reeside, Fed. Case No. 11,657; Union
Marine Ins. Co. v. -Stone, 15 F. (2d) 937; Winter on
Marine Ins., 1919 ed., p. 140; Bullardv. Roger Williams
Ins. Co., 1 Curtis 148; Swan v. Union Ins. Co., 3 Wheat.
168; Donnell v. Columbian.Ins. Co., 7 Fed. Cas. p. 891,
Case No. 3987; Prohaska v. St. Paul Insurance Co., 270
Fed. 91; Leerdam etc., owners of S. S. Leerdam v. Mediterranean& Genra Traders, Inc., 17 F. (2d) 586; The

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1027.
Argument for Respondents.

277 U. S.

Asuaria, 291 Fed. 73. The Tornado (Klein v. Globe &
Rutgers Ins. Co., 2 F. (2d) 137), distinguished.
The dictum in The Tornado, supra,.that what constitutes a peril of the sea depends upon the size of the
vessel insured, does not correctly state the law. Its application to facts such as are involved in the present case
would lead substantially to the conclusion that a policy
of marine insurance is not, as Lord Herschell says, "an
insurance against accidents which happen, but an insurance against events which must happen."- See The
Xantho, 12 App. Cas. 503; British & Foreign Ins. Co. v.
Gaunt, 2 App. Cas. 41.
To insure such a vessel against perils of the sea, does
not amount to the underwriter warranting that she is fit
to encounter perils of the sea. The only warranty in the
policy of insurance is the warranty of the assured, not the
warranty by the underwriter. As Lord Mersey said in
Sasson v. Western Assurance Go. (1912), A. C. 561: "An
insurance against the 'perils of the sea or other perils' is
not a guarantee that a ship will float."
The petitioner has failed to sustain the burden of proving that the-sinking of the boat resulted from one of the
few specified perils insured against in these policies.
Unseaworthin'ess of a vessel may be one or both of two
things; first, a breach of the implied warranty of seaworthiness which is contained in every marine policy unless expressly excluded (Hazard v. New England Ins. Co.,
8 Pet. 557); second, a cause of loss. Considered as a
breach of warranty, unseaworthiness may undoubtedly
be waived by the underwriter. The waiver, however,
should always be expressed in writing in the policy in the
clearest language. Arnould on Marine Insurance, ยง 686.
Considered as a dause of loss, even where there is no
warranty, a loss from unseaworthiness is not a peril insured against. This was specifically decided in Nr . 0. T.
& M. R. Co. v. Union Marine Ins. Co., 286 Fed. 32. See

COMPARIA DE NAVEGACION v. INS. CO.
66 "

69

Argument for Respondents.

also Grant Smith. & Co.v. Seattle Construction Cb., 1920,
A. C. 162.
In other words, even though the underwriter admits in
the policy that the vessel is seaworthy, the assured is not
entitled to recover where the loss is not showni to have
been caused by a peril of. the sea or-other of the specific
perils insured against. A fortiori this must also be so
when the evidence indicates that the loss was caused by
unseaworthiness.

*

It is undoubtedly true that unseaworthiness, con~idered as a breach of the implied warranty of. seaworthiness, is a special defense which must be afflrnatively
pleaded and proved by the underwriters. Petitioner,
however, overlooks the distinction between unseaworthiness as a breach of the implied warranty of seaworthiness,
and as a possible cause ofiloss. If the loss was caused by
unseaworthiness, the petitioner cannot recover and there
is no need for the defendant underwriters to set up unseaworthiness as an affirmative defense. New Orleans,
T. & M. Ry. Co.v. Union Marine Ins. Co., 286 Fed. 32;
Swan v . Union Insurance-Co.,.3Wheat. 168; The Lakeland, 1927, A. M.- C. 1361; Richelieu Navigation Co. v.
Boston Ins. (o., 136.U.S. 408; Firemen'sFund Ins. Co. v.
Globe Navigation.Co., 236 Fed. 618; Coles v. Marine Ins.'
Co., Fed. Cases, No; 2988; (Jaryv. Boylston FireIns. (o.,
107 Mass. 140; -Van Viet.v. Greenwich Ins. (o., 14 Daly
(N. Y.) 496.
If any cause of loss is shown, it is the uninsured riskt of
negligent towage. Obviously, it was negligence to' tow
this. small tfig at the rate of nine miles an hour, behind a
large steamer with such a short tow line. Peace River
Mining, Co. v. Mulqueen, 285 Fed. 102; The Mariner,
1927, A. M. 0. 363; The Marie Palmer,,191 *Fed.79; The
Inca, 148 Fed. 363; D. W. Ryan TJwboat Co.v. Draper,
263 Fed. 31: The Manhattan, 186 Fed. 329.

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U.S.

The fact that the contract of towage relieved the towing vessel from all responsibility for negligence was a
fact material to the risk which should have been disclosed to the underwriters, and its concealment voided
the policy. The policy specifically provided that any
agreement whereby any right of recovery of the assured
against any vessel or person is released, decreased, transferred or lost, voided the policy. Sun, Mutual Ins. Co.
v. Ocean Ins. Co., 107 U. S. 485; Tate & Sons v. Hyslop,
15 Q. B. Div. 368; Phoeniz Ins. Co. v. Parson, 129 N. Y.
86; The Turret Crown, 297 Fed. 766; The Oceanica, 170
Fed. 893; Ten Eyck v. Director General, 267 Fed. 974;
McWilliams v. Davis, 285 Fed. 312; Hand & Johnson Tug
Line v. Canada S. S. Lines, 281 Fed. 779; British Columbia Barge Co. v. Myiroie, 259 U. S.1; The Pacific Maru;
8 F. (2d) 166; The Sea Lion, 12 F. (2d) 124.
MR.CBiBF JusTicE TAFr

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are eleven libels filed in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana by a
Mexican corporation known as the Compafia de Navegaci6n, against as many different insurance companies,
English and American, on eleven separate policies, insuring the tug "Wash Gray" in favor of the libelant as
owner in different sums aggregating $85,000, and covering
a voyage of the tug while in tow from Tampico, Mexico,
to Galveston, Texas.
The tug was designed for inland waters. She was 87
feet long, with 19 feet beam, 9 feet depth of hold, and was
of 105 tons. She was insured specially for this sea voyage, to be towed as agreed with the Insuring Companies
by the "Freeport Sulphur No. 1," a vessel engaged in
regular trade on the Gulf of Mexico, and measuring 309
feet in length, 45 feet beam, with 22 feet depth, and of
ipproximately 3,000 tons displacement

COMPAIRIA DE NAVEGACION v. INS. CO.
66

71

Opinion of the Court.

When application was made for insurance, the underwriters required an inspection for seaworthiness, general
fitness and iowing arrangements for that voyage. For
that purpose two well known marine surveyors, representing the various underwriters, made a thorough, critical
inspection, followed by-recommendations for preparations
for the voyage, including certain overhauling, particularly of her towing bitts and decking, and for the planking
up of doors, ports, and other openings. They reported
in writing to the underwriters that the requirements had
been complied with, and certified her seaworthiness, and
her fitness for the particular voyage. Because.of the extra
hazardous risk involved in the transit of this small inland
vessel in tow at .sea, the premiums were much increased
by the underwriters. They varied, in the different policies, between one and one-half to two and one-eighth per
cent., or from six to more than eight times the usual rate
for a tow of the ordinary size and pdwer to resist the sea.
The voyage contemplated was first to Freeport, Texas, a
distance of some four hundred and twenty miles, a trip
taking some forty-five or fifty hours. From there, she
was to go to Galveston by another towing vessel,, also to
be satisfactory to the underwriters. The weather from
Tampico was fiir and the sea calm. She followed nicely,
handled well, and continued in tow through the first night
and through the next day, making some nine miles per
hour with no straining or difficulty. Ordinarily, under
her own lower, she was good for from ten to twelvre miles
per hour. During the second evening, came a fresh to
strong northwesterly breeze. Later the weather grew
squally, until, about 8 o'clock, the wind reached a velocity
of twenty-five miles an hour, with occasional puffs or
gusts. Because of these and a cross current and swell, the
sea grew choppy, with waves running up four to five feet
from trough to crest, and sufficient, to break over-her head.
The rough weather and the choppy seas put a strain on

72

OCTOBER TE M, 1027.
Opinion of the Court.

27 V. S.

the vessel. As required by contract, she had up all steam
necessary to work her pumps. The mate was sent below
and in a few minutes reported to the captain that the forward bitts had worked loose, that her seams were opening,
and she was taking water rapidly. The pounding and
straining continued until she made more water than her
pumps could discharge. She was then about 100 miles
from Freeport, Texas, and had completed three-fourths of
the voyage to that point. The "Wash Grays" captain
signalled to the towing ship to stop. The water in the tug
had rolled forward, thus bringing her head down. The
tow lines were then cut. This brought her head up and
she righted herself. The larger. vessel stood by. The
captain of the "Wash Gray" notified the towing captain
that the tug could stand no more pulling. Shortly thereafter the captain and crew of the tug were taken aboard
the ship for safety. The latter then stood by until daylight when the master sent his engineer, mate and some
six men on board the tug to attempt to save her. They
found no water in the boiler for steam. They attempted
by a hose to pump it in, but the leaking sea water put out
the fire. The vessels then proceeded slowly at one mile
per hour until half past ten when the tug began to sink
slowly and went down at half past eleven.
The District Judge found for the owner of the " Wash
Gray" on all the policies. The Insurance Companies appealed to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, Vhich without objecting to the facts as found by the District Court
reversed the case with directions to dismiss the libels.
Counsel for the Insurance Companies seek to sustain
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals on four
grounds. They say, first, that the Insurance Companies
were released from liability because there was not disclosed to them before the voyage a contract of towage, a
term of which was material to the risk and was concealed
and the policies were thus avoided. The towage contract
provided as follows:

COAVPAILA DE NKVIEGA01ON v. INS. CO.
66

73

Opinion of the Court.

"Freeport Sulphur No. I will furnish haiiser. All other
risk and expense to beborne by the tug. " Iis underst6od
you will keep sufficient men on board to keep up steam
and man the tug's pumps. S. S. Freeport No. 1 is not
responsible in aiiy way for loss or damage to"the Wash
Gray."All -the policies had attached to them by rider and
rubber stamp a clause-like the foll6wing:
"Any agreement, contract or act, past or future, positive
or implied, br the"Insured whereby any right of recovery
of the insured against any vessel, person or corporation: is
released, decreased, transferred or lost, which would, on
acceptance of abandonment, or payment of loss by this
compahyi, belong to :this C6mpany but for'such agreement,
contract or act, shall render this policy null and void as to
the amdunt of any such loss or damage, but the Company's right to retain or recover the full premium shall not
be affected."

-

-.

"

We do not think that the towing contract-has the' effect
claimed for it by the companies. It did not release the
"Freeport" from any loss or damage to the "Wash
Gray" due to the negligence of the master or crew of the
towing vessel; and for a loss thus caused the companies
would be subrogated to the claim of the owner of. the
W ash Gray.",""....

The rule laid down by this Court in The Steamer Syracuse, 12 Wa.- 167, 171, .covets the. point. That was a.
libel by the owner of a canal boat against the Steamer
Syracuse for negligence in towing the canal boat and running her into a vessel at anchor in the harbor of New
York. The claim was made that there had been a special
agreement between the canal boat and the steamboat by
which the canal boat was being towed at her own xisk.
Upon this point the Court said:
.
"It is unneaessaxryto consider -theevidence relating -to
the alleged confri.ct of, towage, bemiuse, if it be. true,. as
the apeflant says; that, by specii agreenient, the canal-

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1027.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

boat was being towed at her own risk, nevertheless the
steamer is liable, if, through the negligence of those in
charge of her, the canal-boat has suffered loss. Although
the policy of the law has not imposed on the towing boat
the obligation resting on a common carrier, it does require
on the part of the persons engaged in her management,
the exercise of reasonable care, caut on, and maritime skill,
and if these are neglected, and disaster occurs, the towing

boat must be visited with the consequences."
In view of this state of the law, the towing contract here
shown was not a fact material to the risk, a concealment
of which from the underwriters would injure them or avoid
the policy.
The second objection is that the tug was negligently

towed at too great a speed, proximately causing the loss.
There is really very little evidence to sustain the claim that
there was any negligence on the part of the towing vessel
or her master or her crew. The trial court -specifically
found that the towing was well done, that nine miles an
hour was not too fast a speed to be maintained, but that
on the contrary the maintenance of such speed was necessary in order to prevent the towed vessel from turning
over or careening, and there is no finding to the contrary
by the Court of Appeals.
The third objection is that the tug was not seaworthy
and therefore the risk never attached. The finding by
the trial court distinctly negatives any such claim. It
said:
"Libellant's case, upon this point, does not depend
entirely on the fact that, as a condition precedent to the
underwriting, the insurers required and obtained inspections, detailed recommendations of two expert marine surveyors, and a certificate of compliance with all requirements deemed by them necessary to show that the Wash
Gray was seaworthy and fit, equipped and apparelled with
a view to the particular-voyage, in tow of the particular

COMPARIADEX AVRGACION v. INS. CO.
66

75

Opinion of the Court.

ship Freeport, to be thence towed by another approved by
them to Galveston, for the specific known purpose of general overhauling and changing her engines. There is,
additionally, the oral testimony which clearly shows that
these surveyors were correct in their report and had competently functioned in making their recommendations and
a~cepting the compliance-by the owner, as per their certificate. The unwarranted -assumption that the Wash
Gray pulled apart, upon the contrary, as argued in the
brief of respondents, is not sustained by the evidence.
She did not pull apart in any particular. It is conclusively shown, and uncontradicted, that her forward bitts
pulled loose because, of the extraordinary straining ahd
pounding under the stress of weather encountered. This
was overcome, as the evidence shows, by the rigging of
the Spanish windlass. The water which caused the sinking was shipped.through her seaiiis,-from which the caulking had %vorked by the same cause. The only hope of
overcoming this was by pumping, but pumping was
inadequate."
This issue, however, brings up clearly the difference
between the view of the District Court and that of the
Court of Appeals in respect to liability in this case.
What does "seaworthy" mean in the implied or expressed warranty to which the insured is to be held?
Arnould on Marine Insurance, Vol. II, tenth .English
edition, says:
"Sec. 710. It is obvious that there can be no fixed and
positive standard of seaworthiness, but that it must vary,
'with the varying exigencies of. mercantile enterprise.
'The ship,' said Lord Cairns, 'should be in a condition
to encounter whatever perls of the sea a ship of that
kind, and laden in that way, may. be fairly expected to
encounter' on the voyage.. SteeZ v. State Line S. S. Co.
(1877) 3 App. Cases, 72,. 77.
"Again the class of vessl may be suich as will -not
admit of being put into that condition of seaworthiness

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

requisite in ordinary cases for the contemplated voyage.
The effect of this is not to dispense with the implied varranty of seaworthiness, but to accommodate the warranty
to what is reasonably practicable in the particular case.
But the uilderwriter must be informed of the peculiar
nature of the risk. Thus, if a steamer built for river
navigation is to be sailed from this country'to Calcutta
or to Odessa; and'the underwriter accept the risk with
full information as to the class of vessel and the intended
voyage, the assured is only required to make her as seawbrthy for the voyage as is reasonably practicable with
such a vessel by ordinary available means." Burges v.
Wickham (1863) 3 B. & S. 669; The Vortidern (1899)
P. 159; Clapham v. Langton, 34 Law Journal, Q. B. 46;
TurnbulZ v. Jenson, 3 Aspinwall W. S. 433.
This view of varying seaworthiness according to the
circumstances known to both parties is fully supported
in the case of Thebaud v. Great Western Insurance Company, 155 N. Y. 516. There the plaintiff applied to the
defendant insurance company to insure, for a voyage
from Philadelphia to Frontera, Mexico, a steamer in
course of construction for use on rivers and inland waters.
The defendant caused the vessel to be examined by an
engineer, and issued the usual marine poli-y, exacting,
however, a double premium. The vessel proceeded part
of the way on her voyage, avoiding the sea, but in reaching Mexico she had to put out to open sea and was lost.
It was held that as both parties to the contract knew
that the vessel was not a sea-going craft or suitable for
the navigation of' the high seas, and as the defendant
issued its policy with full knowledge of the nature of the
risk, the warranty of seaworthiness, implied in a'contract
of marine insurance, should-not be construed in a way to
be repugnant to the general purpose of the parties in
executing the contrdet, nor held*to be broken by tfie

COMPAIRIA DE NAVEGACION v. INS. CO.
66

77

Opnon- of the Cour.

fact that the vessel was not so constructed as to be fit
for a sea voyage. See 4joyce on Insurance, ยง 2159.
, In Klein v. Globe &-Rutgers Insurance Company, 2 F.
(2d) 137, decided -by the Circuit Court -ofAppeals of the
Third Circuit, the policy-covered an upper river steamboat for a voyage down the Mississippi River to New Orleans, and from there in tow down the river and across
the Gulf to. Tampico, for which a higher premium than
usual was paid. She was bulkheaded and otherwise prepared under the. supervision of the agents of the insurance company for her voyage to Tampico. She was inspected and found to be thoroughly all right at the
mouth of the Mississippi, River, -but after she was being
towed in the Gulf, an examination disclosed considerable
water in the :hol.d and thereafter the vessel sank. It was
held that-the implied--warranty-. of.. the insured -was that
the boat was seaworthy- to- the extent of being:able to
withstand all the-ordinary perils of navigation .of .the
upper river and that the perils of. the sea in the Gulf,
against which she-was insured, were such perils as would
be extraordinary to a Vessel of her type. Judgment was
given for the insured..
Again, in the -Farmers' Feed Company v. Insurance
Company of North America,. 166 Fed. 11, affirming the
District Court for the Southern District of New York, 162.
Fed. 379, the defendant insurance company, knowing'the
age and exact condition of a barge, insured her for operation in waters adjacent to New York at a high premium.
The loss occurred by reason of vind and tide near Brooklyn Bridge,. and the defense was unseawor'thiness. The
Second Circuit Court of Appeals said:
"The. Mackey was undoubtedly very old and somewhat decayed, but-her condition, her history and all the
facts regarding her. were fully known to the company at
the time the policy was executed, a written record stating

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

all the particulars being on file with the company. The
underwriters knew that she was not a desirable risk, they
knew they were taking more than an ordinary hazard and
they guarded themselves against it by charging more
than the ordinary premium. The theater of the Mackey's operations was, by the express terms of the policy,
confined to the waters adjacent to New York, practically
New York harbor. The ordinary perils of the sea were
not intended, but only such perils as were to be encountered in the comparatively quiet waters referred to. The
question of seaworthiness must be considered in the light
of the service required. .. "
The fourth objection claimed by the respondents is that
no recovery could be had because the loss of the "Wash
Gray" was not caused by any peril insured against.
These policies all contained a clause like the following:
"It is the intent of this insdrance company by this
policy to fully indemnify the insured against the adventures and perils of the harbors, bays, sounds, seas, rivers
and other waters above named."
It is urged by the Insurance Companies that weather
when the wind did not exceed a velocity of twenty-five
miles, though with squalls, and wvith a cross current and
swell producing a choppy sea with waves five feet high
and breaking over the head of the vessel, did not constitute a peril of the sea.
There was some emphasis too placed by counsel for
the companies on the log of the "Sulphur No. 1" in
which the state of the weather and of the sea seemed to
be minimized. Upon this point the trial court finds it
to be unreliable because the entries in the log do not
seem to have been made at the times of the observations
they record and moreover the entries were made from
the standpoint of a vessel of 3,000 tons, and not one of
a vessel of the size of the "Wash Gray." The court said:

COMPAIIA DE NAVEGACION v. INS. CO.
66

79

Opinion'of the Court.

"What amounts to a light breeze, or a small swell, or a
choppy sea, as logged for a large ocean-going steel vessel,
would be relatively, if logged for a little inland wooden
tug, with two or three feet of freeboard, an extremely
dangerous gale and rough sea. The first would ride com"fortably, safely and easily, while the other would toss and
pound furiously, strain her timbers, lose .the caulking
of her butts and seams, and so contrast the comparative
calm for one to the comparative fury for the other. The
oral testimony, however, makes such speculation and
refinement unnecessary, since it convincingly shows that
for the 'Wash Gray' in the open Gulf, the wind and the
condition of the sea were extremely perilous; that both
the towing ship, its officers and crew. and the crew of the
little tug omitted nothing that good seamanship, skill and
prudence would indicate."
But it is contended on behalf of the insurance companies that the phrase "perils of the sea" has not a varying but an absolute meaning, and they rely on the language of Mr. Justice Story in the Reeside, 20 Federal
Cases, No. 11,657, p. 458 (2 Sumn. 567), quoted and
approved in Garrisonz v. Memphis Insurance Company,
19 How. 312. In the former case the question was
whether great damage to bales of carpeting by absorbing
oil which had leaked from a number of casks, said to
have been improperly stowed, was occasioned by the
perils of the sea and the extraordinary rolling of the
schooner during the voyage. Justice Story said:
"The phrase 'danger of the seas,' whether understood
in its most limited sense, as importing only a loss by the
natural accidents peculiar to that element; or whether
understood in its more extended sense; as including inevitable accidents upon that elenient, must still, in either
case, be clearly understood to include such losses as are
pf exraordinary nature, or arise, from some irresistible

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U.S.

force, or some overwhelming power, which can not be
guarded against by the ordinary exertions of human skill
and prudence."
But we think the definition of "dangers of the sea"
by Justice Story was meant by him to be applied in the
ordinary case of a sea-going vessel with no special circumstances as to the exceptional character of the vessel known
to both parties and recognized by both in a high premium
charged and paid.. A contract of maritime insurance is
usually not different from any other contract except that
the words and phrases used may have a technical nautical
meaning .to be understood by the parties and enforced accordingly. We have seen however from the cases that
the term "seaworthiness" varies with the circumstances
and the exceptional features of the risk known to both
parties. The view of the Circuit Court of Appeals that
"perils of the sea" has an absolute meaning and may not
be varied by the knowledge of the parties as to the circumstances and must be maintained stiffly in favor of the insurance companies and against the insured, is not necessary or reasonable. The variation in the significance of
"seaworthy," as shown by the above authorities, when
caused by exceptional circumstances known to both parties, applies as well to the meaning of perils of the sea as
to that of seaworthiness. The two terms in such cases are
correlative terms. Klein v. Globe & Rutgers Insurance
Co., 2 F. (2d) 137, 139, 140.
The Circuit Court of Appeals distinguished Kleia v.
Globe & Rutgers Insurance Company, The Farmers' Feed
Company v. The Insurance Company and Thebaud v.
Great Western. Insurance Company,, and 4 Joyce on Insurance, Section 2159, as follows:
"Recovery was allowed in each of those cases on the
actual contract which was held to be different from the
contract evidenced by the insurance policy. It was merely

GAINES v. WASHINGTON.
66

" Syllabuk: -'

held that effect should be given to the actual contract.
The facts in this case do not warrant the conclusion that
appellant bound itself by its conduct or by any agreement
to accept the risk of unseaworthiness.'.
We find ourselves unable to .follow this distinction.
In all these cases the recovery was on the contract, and
the question was of the construction of the- contract. Its
construction was affected necessarily by the lsiecial cirofimstances surrounding the contract known to both parties
and acted on by them i charging dnd paying an increased
compensation for the risk run. The circumstances in this
case are very lke those shown in the cases cited. They
certainly justify the conclusion to which we have come.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is reversed.
GAINES v. WASHINGTON.
ERROR TQO TMHE

SUPREME COURT- OF WASHINGTON.

No. 841. Submitted April 23, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
1. Wri of error does'not lie to 'a,judgment of a state court when the
validity of a federal treaty or statute, or of a state statute on the
ground of repugnancy to the federal Constitution, treaties or laws,
was not drawn in question. Jud. ,Oode, ยง 237 (a). P. 83.
2. The Sixih Amendment does 'not pply to . "satecriminal prosecution. P. 85.
3. The question whether exclusion of t6 'public from'a'-murder trial
is against due process of law, is not presented by a record showing
only an oral order or announcement of the trial judge that the
- public would be excluded beginning the next day, which was not
carried out. P. 86.
4. Criminal prosecutions in the-state courts may be by informition
. instead of indictment.
Id.
5. Objection to in information for murder as violating due process
becausefiled pending.an investigaiion by the coroner and because
the district attorney was in a "rage" are frivolous. P. 87.

