ST. L. & S. W. RY. v. NATTIN.
Syllabus. -

151

rules against the ship, or that provided by the new against
the employer. But they may not have the benefit of both.
To subject vessels during all the time allowed by the
statute of limitations to secret liens to secure undisclosed
and unlimited claims for personal injuries by every seaman who may have suffered injury thereon would be a
very serious burden. One desiring to purchase, for example, could only guess vaguely concerning the value.
"An Act to provide for the promotion and maintenance of
the American Merchant Marine" ought not to be so construed in the absence of compelling language.
The judgment of the court below must be affirmed.
Affirmed.
ST. LOUIS & SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. NATTIN, TAX COLLECTOR.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 263.

Argued March 2,'1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.

1. A state statute empowering a local governing body, like the police
jury in Louisiana, to create road districts and with the approval of
a popular vote to construct roads aid issue bonds to pay for them,
to be met by taxation ad valorem of the land in the district, need
not allow the taxpayer a hearing on these matters (aside from the
valuation of his land for taxation), to be valid under the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 159.
2. The Constitution of Louisiana did not inhibit the collection in
1926 of a tax partly intended to supply-funds to meet instalments
of principal and interest upon bonds maturing in March, 1927
-Id.
3. The legality of a general ad valorem tax on the property in the
road district to pay for construction or improvement of roads, does
not depend on receipt of any special benefit by the taxpayer.
Id.
4. Louisiana statutes provide ample opportunity for contesting valuations of property for taxation purposes. Id.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

5. A local ad valorem tax on the property of a carrier engaged in
interstate commerce does not amount to regulation of interstate
commerce. P. 159.
27 F. (2d) 766, affirmed.

from a decree of the District Court, dismissing
the bill of the Railway Company, seeking to enjoin the
collection of taxes levied on its property for the purposes
of satisfying road improvement bonds.
APPEAL

Mr.. John D. Wilkinson, with whom Messrs. J. R.
Turney, C. Huffman Lewis, and William Scott Wilkinson
were on the brief, for appellants. '
Messrs A. M. Wallace, Roberts C. Milling, and R. E.
Milling, Jr., were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUsTIcE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This cause was heard by a specially constituted District Court-three judges. Jud. Code, Secs. 283, 266. It
dismissed the bill and directed that the costs, together
with ten per cent. damages, be assessed against appellant.
The opinion of the court, considered with the argument
here, so plainly demonstrates the lack of merit in the
claims advanced that we need not discuss them at length.
The appellant owns a line of railroad lying partly
in Bossier Parish, Louisiana, also all stock of the corporate owner of the bridge over Red River at Bossier
City. Purporting to proceed as directed by the state
statute, the Police Jury of that Parish undertook to create
from the major part of its territory a Consolidated Road
District, to issue bonds thereof to pay for constructing a
highway therein and to lay an ad valorem tax upon all
property within the District to meet the obligation. Appellant asked for an injunction prohibiting any attempt to

ST. L. & S. W. RY. v. NATTIN.
157

Opinion of the Court.

collect the taxes levied and assessed for the year 1926.
None of the alleged grounds for relief is substantial.
In Louisiana the police jury, subordinate to the state
legislature, is the governing body of the parish. A statute of the State empowers these juries to create road districts from such portions of their parishes as they may
determine and, with the approval of a popular vote, to
construct roads and issue bonds to pay therefor.
The validity of this statute is challenged Upon the
ground that it fails to provide the taxpayer with proper
opportunity to be heatd. A sufficient short answer is
that under the repeated decisions here this is not essential. Valley Farms Co. v. Westchester County, 261 U. S.
155, Hancock v. Muskogee, 250 U. S.454. But here in
fact the appellant had abundant opportunity to present
objections to the proposed plan.
We find nothing in the Constitution of Louisiana, when
reasonably construed, which inhibited the collection in
1926 of A tax partly intended to supply funds to meet
installments of principal and interest upon bonds maturing in March, 1927.
As the assailed tax was general and ad valorem, its
legality does not depend upon the receipt of any special
benefit by the taxpayer.
The local statutes provided ample opportunity for the
appellant to contest the valuation of its property for
taxation purposes.
Without doubt a local legislative body, when properly
authorized, may lay general ad valorem taxes upon all
property within its jurisdiction, including that of common carriers engaged in interstate commerce, without
violating the Federal Constitution. That such taxation
does not amount to regulation of interstate commerce is
settled doctrine.
The decree below is affirmed.
Affirmed.

