OCTOBER TERM, 1927.

226

Statement of the Case.

277 U. S.

from which it is taken, and to that extent diminishes the
subject upon which Federal taxes may be laid. The
States are, and they must ever be, coexistent with the
National government. Neither may destroy the other.
Hence the Federal Constitution must receive a practical
construction. Its limitations and its implied prohibitions
must not be extended so far as to destroy the necessary
powers of the States, or prevent their efficient exercise."
MR. JUSTICE STONE concurs in these views.

BUZYNSKI v. LUCKENBACH STEAMSHIP COMPANY, INCORPORATED, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 534. Argued March 19, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
1. Section 33 of the Merchant Marine Act incorporated into the maritime law in favor of injured "seamen " the applicable provisions of
the Employers' Liability Act and its amendments, and these may
-be enforced either in suits in admiralty or actions at law. P. 228.
2. A stevedore engaged in stowing cargo upon a vessel, is a "seaman"
within the meaning of that section and, under applicable provisions of the Liability Act, may recover from the stevedoring company, employing him for an injury caused by the negligence of a
fellow-servant. Id.
3. Where the Circuit Court of Appeals erroneously reverses a judgment upon one question without deciding another upon which its
correctness also depends, the case may be reversed for the error
and remanded to that court for decision of the other question.
Id.
19 F. (2d) 871, reversed.

275 U. S.518, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which reversed a judgment of the District Court on a libel in admiralty for personal injuries.
CERTIORARI,

BUZYNSKI v. LUCKENBACH S. S. CO.
226

227

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. W. E. Price, with whom Mr. James W. Wayman
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. Newton Rayzor, with whom Mr. Mart H.
Royston was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner, Karl Buzynski, brought a libel in personam in admiralty in the federal District Court for
Southern Texas against the Luckenbach Steamship Co.,
the owner of the Steamship Edgar F. Luckenbach, and
the Texas Contracting Co., to recover damages for personal injuries suffered by him while working as a stevedore for the Contracting Co., an independent contractor
engaged in loading cargo on the steamship while at dock
in the port of Galveston.. He was awarded a judgment
against the two Companies jointly, 12 F. (2d) 92. This
was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 19 F.
(2d) 871.
Shortly after Buzynski had started to work, and while
he was removing a cover from one of the hatches on the
ship, he was struck and severely injured, without fault
on his part, by a chain which fell from the end of the
boom of a derrick at this hatch, which was used in loading
the cargo. The accident was caused by the starting in
motion, in a manner not shown by direct evidence, of a
winch belonging to the ship which connected with and
controlled the movement of the boom. The winchman
who operated the winch was an employee of the Contracting Co. and a fellow servant of Buzynski.
The District Court was of opinion that the accident
resulted from a defect in the winch for which both Companies were responsible. The Circuit Court of Appeals
was of opinion that the evidence showed no defect in the

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

winch for which either of the Companies was liable, and
that, although there was evidence from which it might
reasonably be inferred that the accident was caused by
negligence of the winchman or of another stevedore,
nevertheless the Contracting Co. would not be liable for
the negligence of such fellow servant.
We granted this writ of certiorari on account of this
ruling of the Circuit Court of Appeals as to the negligence of a fellow servant; and no other question need be
considered here.
It is settled by this Court that ยง 33 of the Merchant
Marine Act, 1920,1 incorporated into the maritime law in
favor of injured "seamen" the applicable provisions of
the Employers Liability Act' and its amendments, and
that these may be enforced either in suits in admiralty or
actions at law. PanamaR. R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S.
375, 388; Engel v. Davenport, 271 U. S. 33, 35; Panama
R. R. Co. v. Vasquez, 271 U. S. 557, 560; Baltimore S. S.
Co. v. Phillips,274 U. S. 316, 324; Messel v. Foundation
Co., 274 U. S. 427, 434. And in Internat'l Stevedoring
Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50, 52, we held that the word
"seamen") as used in ยง 33 included a stevedore engaged in
the maritime work of stowing cargo upon a vessel, and
that under the applicable provisions of the Employers
Liability Act, he could recover from the stevedoring company for an injury caused by the negligence of a fellow
servant.
The view of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
Contracting Co. would not be liable for the negligence of
a fellow servant, was erroneous, and its judgment must
be reversed. But since it did not determine whether the
accident was in fact due to such negligence, or to some
other cause, the case will be remanded to that court with
3'41

Stat. 988, c. 250.

235 Stat. 65, c. 149.

UNITED STATES v. GOLDMAN.
226

229

Argument for the United States.

instructions to determine this question and take further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion. See Cole v.

Ralph, 252 U. S. 286, 290; Gerdes v. Lustgarten,266 U. S.
321, 327.
Reversed and remanded.

UNITED STATES v. GOLDMAN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 723. Argued April 10, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
1. A criminal contempt, committed by violation of an injunction
decreed by a federal court, is an offense against the United States;
and an information brought by the United States for the punishment of such a contempt is a "criminal case" within the meaning
of the Criminal Appeals Act. P. 236.
2. A motion .to dismiss an information of criminal contempt raising
the bar of the statute of limitations upon facts appearing upon the
face of the information, is equivalent to a special plea in bar setting
up those facts, and a judgment sustaining the motion is reviewable
under the Criminal Appeals Act, as a judgment sustaining a special
plea in bar. Id.
3. A person charged with criminal contempt is not put in jeopardy
prior to the beginning of the trial by entry of a preliminary order
to take testimony for use at the trial. P. 237.
4. Prosecution of a criminal contempt committed by violating an
injunction decree entered in a suit brought by the United States
uder the Anti-Trust Act, is not barred in one year under ยง 25 of
The Clayton Act, but in three years under ยง 1044 Rev. Stats. Id.
Reversed.

under the Criminal Appeals Act, to a judgment
of the District Court dismissing an information for contempt.
ERROR,

Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan,with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell, and Messrs. Porter R. Chandler, RaIstone R. Irvine, and W. Houston Kenyon, Special

