GAINES v. WASHINGTON.
66

" Syllabuk: -'

held that effect should be given to the actual contract.
The facts in this case do not warrant the conclusion that
appellant bound itself by its conduct or by any agreement
to accept the risk of unseaworthiness.'.
We find ourselves unable to .follow this distinction.
In all these cases the recovery was on the contract, and
the question was of the construction of the- contract. Its
construction was affected necessarily by the lsiecial cirofimstances surrounding the contract known to both parties
and acted on by them i charging dnd paying an increased
compensation for the risk run. The circumstances in this
case are very lke those shown in the cases cited. They
certainly justify the conclusion to which we have come.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is reversed.
GAINES v. WASHINGTON.
ERROR TQO TMHE

SUPREME COURT- OF WASHINGTON.

No. 841. Submitted April 23, 1928.-Decided May 14, 1928.
1. Wri of error does'not lie to 'a,judgment of a state court when the
validity of a federal treaty or statute, or of a state statute on the
ground of repugnancy to the federal Constitution, treaties or laws,
was not drawn in question. Jud. ,Oode, ยง 237 (a). P. 83.
2. The Sixih Amendment does 'not pply to . "satecriminal prosecution. P. 85.
3. The question whether exclusion of t6 'public from'a'-murder trial
is against due process of law, is not presented by a record showing
only an oral order or announcement of the trial judge that the
- public would be excluded beginning the next day, which was not
carried out. P. 86.
4. Criminal prosecutions in the-state courts may be by informition
. instead of indictment.
Id.
5. Objection to in information for murder as violating due process
becausefiled pending.an investigaiion by the coroner and because
the district attorney was in a "rage" are frivolous. P. 87.

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

6. The contention that defendant was not present or that he could
not hear the evidence at his trial for murder, cannot be entertained
on affidavits filed after the State Supreme Court had affirmed his
conviction: P. 87.
7. A record in a murder trial showing by daily entries all parties and
counsel present is sufficient proof of attendance by the defendant.
Id.
8. Where criminal cases are brought here from state courts on frivilous objections, mandate will be ordered issued forthwith on disnissal of writ of error, or denial of certiorari. Id.
Writ of Error to 144 Wash. 446, dismissed.
Certiorari denied.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington sustaining a conviction for murder.
Messrs. W. P.
thrie, G. E. M. Pratt, and Howard T.
Ballard were on the brief for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Ewing D. Colvin was on the brief for defendant
in error.
MR. CwuF JusmIC TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The defendant was charged by information with the
crime of murder in the first degree in the Superior Court
of King County in the State of Washington. The trial
resulted in a verdict of guilty as charged and a finding by
the jury that the death penalty should be inflicted. Motions for. a new trial and in arrest of judgment were made
and overruled, and the judgment was entered upon the
verdict.
The defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of the
State. That court, after a consideration of the errors
claimed to have been committed on the trial, affirmed the
judgment and sentence. Final judgment was entered
January 18, 1928. On February 6, 1928, a petition for a
writ of error from this Court was presented to the Chief

GAINES v. WASHINGTON.
81

Opinion of the Court.

Justice of the Supreme Court of the State. He allowed
the writ and it was accordingly issued. In accordance
with our pradtice, the Clerk-brought to the attention of
the Court the fabt that this was a criminal case and was,
therefore; to be expedited. An examination of the assignments of error and the record disclosed that the writ of
error was improvidently allowed. The only law under
which such a writ of error would lie was Section 237(a)
of the Judicial Code, as amended by the Act of February
13, 1925 (c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 937), which reads as follows.
"A final judgment or decree in Any suit in the highest
court of a State in wvhich a decision in the sit' could be
had, where is drawn in *question the validity of a treaty
or statute of the United'States, and the decision is against
its validity; or.where there'is drawn in question the validity of a statute of any State, on the ground of its be'nig
repugnant to the Constitution'-treaties, or laws of the
United States, and the decision is in fivor of its'validit ,
may be reviewed by the Supreme Court upon a'writ of
error."
The record and the assignments of error io not show
that there was here drawn in question the validity of a
treaty or statute of the United States, orithe validity of a
statute of the State of Washington on the ground of its
being repugnant to the Constitution; treaties or laws of
the United States. It. followed that the writ -of error
would have tobe dismissed. Thereupon the Court.entered, March 19, 1928, a rule against the plaintiff in error,
Wallace C. Gaines, .to show cause -before this Court on
April 23rd, why, treating the writ of error inadvertently
allowed in this cause as a petition 'for. writ of certiorari
herein, certiorari should not be denied f6r lack of a substantial federal question in the record giving this Court

jurisdiction.
The order to show cause was issued in view of Section
237(c) of the Code of Judicial Procedure, as amended by

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

2771U. S.

the Act of February 13, 1925 (c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 938).
That paragrapl is as follows:
"If a writ of error be improvidently sought and allowed
under this section in a case where the proper mode of invoking a review is by a petition for certiorari, this alone
shall not be a ground for dismissal; but the papers whereon the writ of error was allowed shall be regarded and
acted on as a petition for certiorari and as if duly presented to the Supreme Court at the time they were
presented to the court or judge by whom the writ of error
was allowed: Provided, That where in such a case there
appears to be no reasonable ground for granting a petition
for certiorari it shall be competent for the Supreme Court
to adjudge to the respondent reasonable damages for his
delay, and single or double costs, as provided in section
1010 of the Revised Statutes."
In obedience to the rule, the petitiQner, Wallace C.
Gaines, has filed a return in which he avers that the first
federal question upon which he asks a writ of -certiorari
arises because of the action of the trial judge, as shown by
the record as follows:
"At the close of the afternoon session' on the ninth day
of the trial, to wit, August 11th, Judge Jones, the trial
judge, said:
"Before adjourning, I will state that the atmosphere is
pretty unbearable. I know the jury must also feel it. I
assume there is a certain part of the members of the Bar
who from the standpoint of stfidents desire to hear the
testimony, but with those exceptions, court officers and
members of the Bar, the general public will be excluded
beginning tomorrow."
This action, the return alleges, was a violation of the
Sixth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, and of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the same Constitution, and that this error

GAIMES v. WASHINGTON.
8f

Opinion'of 1he Court.

was duly urged iiithe trial court and the State Si.preme
Court, on both grounds.
The Sixth Amendment t'o -the Constitutioni provides in
part that "In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall
enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury of the state and district wherein the crime shall
have been committed." Many itate constitutions contain
a substantially similiar guarantjr and restriction. The
quetion what constitutes a public trial the right to which
is thus guaranteed and what discretion a court may exercise in limiting the audience and -spectators is one upon
which the cases differ.' Two views are given in Reaganv.
United S tates, t02 Fed. 488 -and' Davis v. UAited -States,
247 Fed. 394, in both of which maiiy*state cases are cited.
According to some of them, the order complained of here
would be regarded as erroneous, while in others it would
be held to be within the judicial discretion of he court.
But we are relieved from considering or reconciling the
different views taken in these cases by, th6 fadt that
the Sixth Amendment to the Federal Constitution does
not apply to the trial of criminal prosecutions by a State.
It has been well settled for years.that the first ten Anfendments apply only to the procedure and trial of causes in
the federal courts and are not limitations upon those in
state courts. Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131, 166, and cases
cited.
It is contended, licwever, that dueprocess of law exacted
in the Fourteenth Amendment in causes tried in state
courts must be construed as equivalent to the Sixth
Amendment in federal trials. The question hashot arisen
in any case cited fo us, It would involve a consideration
of whether- due pro cess requires more than a trial that is
not private or secret,'or whether .due process would not
be satisfied except by such a restriction upon the discretion of the court in regulating attendance as the defend-

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

277 U. S.

ant here insists upon and as is held in some of the authorities cited above in enforcing the Sixth Amendment and
similar constitutional piovisions of an affirmative character. But we need not pass on that question now.
For even if the due process clause requires the same
kind of public trial as that contended for by the petitioner,
the record d6es not disclose facts which would justify us
in bringing the case before us for our review. The order
of the court complained of was oral only. No formal
order was entered, neither was there a minute entry nor
a specific mention to any particular officer to see that it
was e: ecuted so far as the record discloses. The State before the Supreme Court contended that the order to exclude the general public was never executed. This was
an issue of fact before both Washington courts. After
the fullest examination of affidavits filed by both sides
*upon the motion for a new trial the State Supreme Court's
conclusion was as follows:
"Believing that the statement of the Court was not
carried out but that the general public were admitted to
the courtroom to the extent of its seating capacity during
the trial, the rights of the appellant as guaranteed by the
constitution of this state and by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States were not
invaded."
From an examination of the record, we find no reason
for rejecting this conclusion of fact reached by the unanimous judgment of that court.
Another question raised on behalf of the defendant
concerns the filing of the information for murder by the
prosecuting attorney. Prosecution by information instead
of by indictment is provided for by the laws of Washington. This is not a violation of the Federal Constitution.
Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516. Some objection is
made to the filing of the information because made pend-

GAINES v. WASHINGTON.
81

Opinion of the Court.

ing the investigation by the coroner and because the prosecuting attorney was in " a rage." The law of Washington prescribes no connection between the two i'nquiries.
The objection is frivolous.
Then it is contended that the defendant was not personally present or was not in a place where he could hear
the evidence. There is nothing-in the iecord of the proceedings of the trial to support such a claim. No objection
or exception was taken during the trial on this ground. It
is based on affidavits filed in the case after the'State Supreme Court had affirmed the conviction. This was much
too late. Frankv. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309, 340.
A contention is also made that the presence of defendant .at all times at the trial was not affirmatively shown
by the record. The record was not well made up, but it
contains daily entries showing " all parties and counsel
present" during the trial. This certainly complies with
due process of law required by the Fourteenth Amendment.
All the other objections said to involve federal questions
are equally 'frivolous. Nothing in the record warrants us
in granting a writ of certiorari.
It has not been the practice of the Court to write
opinions and state its reasons for denying writs of certiorari, and this opinion is not to be regarded as indicating an intention to adopt that practice, but in view of
the fact that the'Court has deemed it wise to -initiate
a practice for speedily disbosing of criminal cases in which
there is no real basis for jurisdiction in this Court, it was
thought proper to make an exception here, not to be repeated, and write an opinion.
The character of the case is such that we should proceed
under Rule 31, as amended May 2, 1927 (274 U. S. 766),
and shorten the time for issifing the mandate as provided
therein and order that the mandate and notice of the rul-

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
277 U. S.

Argument for Ferry.

ing herein be issued forthwith to the Supreme Court of
the State of Washington for further proceeding.
The order will be entered dismissing the writ of error
and denying the application for a certiorari.

Writ of errordismissed. (krtioraridenied.
FERRY v. RAMSEY

LT AL.

HARRIS, EXECUTOR, v. RAMSEY

nT AL.

ERROR TO THM SUPREME COURT OF KAiSAS.

Nos. 407 to 418, inclusive. Argued April 25, 1928.-Decided May 14,
1928.

1. A state statute maldng a bank director individually liable for deposits,-the receipt of which by the bank was assented to by him
with knowledge that it was insolvent, and which provides that his
failure to examine the bank's affairs to learn of its condition shall
charge him with knowledge of its insolvency, and that in suits
against him for such deposits the fact of insolvency when the
deposits were received shall be prima facie evidence that the-director both knew of the- insolvency, and assented to the deposits-

held consistent with due process of law. P. 94.
2. The statute might have made directors liable to depositors in
every case. By accepting the office, they assume the risks it
imposes. Id.

122 Kans. 675, 691, affirmed.
F

0Ruo
to judgments of the Supreme Court of Kansas,

afrming recoveries against a.director, and the executor
of a deceased director, of a bank, in twelve suits by
depositors.
Messrs. J. B. McKay and L. J. Bond were on the brief
for Ferry.
Want of knowledge being a defense, the defendant in
an action of this kind has the right -to prove want of
knowledge, and the effect of the statute creating against
the officer a conclusive presumption of knowledge, is to

