MURPHY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE did not hear the argument and took no

part in the consideration and disposition of this case.

MURPHY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 480. Argued February 28, March 1, 1900. -Decided

April 9, 1900.

Murphy was tried in a state court of Massachusetts on an indictment charging him with embezzlement; was convicted; and was sentenced to imprisonment for a term, one day of which was- to be in solitary confinement, and the rest at hard labor. He remained in confinement for nearly
three years,.and then sued out a writ of error, and the judgment was
reversed on the ground that the sentence was unconstitutional. The case
was then remanded to the court below to have him resentenced, which was
done. Before imposing the new sentence the court said that as he had
already suffered one term of solitary confinement, the court would not
impose another, if a written waiver by the prisoner of the provision
therefor were filed. He declined to file such a waiver, and the sentence
was accordingly imposed. Upon his taking steps to have the sentence
set aside, held that his contention in that respect was unavailing.
PLAINTIFF

in error, a citizen of the Commonwealth of Massa-

chusetts and of the United. States, was tried in the Superior
Court of Massachusetts on an indictment which charged him in
sixty-four counts with the embezzlement of different sums of
money on different days between July 19, 1892, and November 2P, 1893, contrary to the provisions of section forty of chapter 203 of the Public Statutes of Massachusetts; was found
guilty, and on May 29, 1896, was sentenced under chapter 504
of the statutes of 1895 to imprisonment in the state's prison of
the Commonwealth at Boston for the term of not less than ten
nor more than fifteen years, one day thereof to be in solitary
confinement and the residue at hard labor, and on that day, in
execution of said sentence, was committed to that prison. He
remained in solitary con finement for one day and in the prison
continuously from May 29, 1S901, to January 7, 1899.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

On June 8, 1898, he sued a writ of error out of the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts, and on January 6, 1899, that
court reversed the sentence of the Superior Court on the ground
that the statute of 1895, c. 504, was unconstitutional so far as
it related to past offenses, and remanded the case to the Superior Court under Public Statutes, c. 187, § 13, to be resentenced
according to the law as it was when the offenses were committed, and before the statute under which he had been sentenced took effect. 172 Mass. 264.
January 7, 1899, he was brought before the Superior Court
pursuant to that direction, and resentenced according to the
provisions of Public Statutes, c. 203, § 20, and Public Statutes,
c. 215, § 23, the sentence being to the state's prison for nine
years, ten months and twenty-one days, the first day thereof to
be in solitary confinement, and the residue at hard labor. Before imposing this sentence the court stated to Murphy's attorney that as Murphy had already suffered one term of solitary
confinement for the offenses for which he was now to be sentenced, it would prefer not to sentence to solitary confinement,
and that it would not do so, if a written waiver by the prisoner
of the provision therefor were filed; but the attorney did not
feel justified in filing such a waiver. Murphy duly excepted to
the sentence last imposed, and requested that all his rights be
reserved. Exceptions having been allowed, the case was carried
on error to the Supreme Judicial Court, which overruled them.
54 N. E. Rep. 860. This writ of error was then sued out.
Mr. Ezra Ripley Thayer for plaintiff in error. Mr. Louis
D. Brandeis and Xr. EdwardF. McClennen were on his brief.
Yr. Hosea X.I Knowlton for defendant in error.

Xr. Arthur

IV. DeGoosh was on his brief.
Mr. CHIEF

JUSTIcE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The specification of errors in the brief of counsel is as follows: "The contention of the plaintiff in error is that the
sentence under which he is now held puts him twice in jeop-

MURPHY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

ardy, and that such double jeopardy abridges his privileges
and immunities as a citizen of the United States, and deprives
him of his liberty without due process of law."
Laying out of view the suggestion that the immunity from
double jeopardy or double punishment of a citizen of Massachusetts, in Massachusetts, is an immunity possessed by him
as a citizen of the United States as contradistinguished from
a citizen of Massachusetts, we inquire whether any law of
Massachusetts abridges such an immunity, and whether that
or any other action of that CommonweAlth deprives plaintiff
in error of his liberty without due process of law. If there
be no such law, and if lie is suffering no such deprivation, we
need not be curious in explanation of the particular ground of
our exercise of jurisdiction.
The statutes of Massachusetts have provided since 1851 (act
of April 30, 1851, c. 87) that " when a final judgment in a criminal case is reversed by the Supreme Judicial Court on account
of error in the sentence,, the court may render such judgment
therein as should have been rendered,. or may remand the case
for that purpose to the court before which the conviction was
had." Acts of 1851, p. 602, c. 87 ; Pub. St. c. 187, § 13.
In this case it was on account of error in the sentence as
originally imposed that that sentence was set aside. All the
proceedings prior thereto stood unimpugned, and the Superior
Court merely rendered the judgment which should have been
rendered before. And this was done under the statute by
direction of the Supreme Judicial Court, whose interposition
had been invoked by plaintiff in error.
The legal effect of the statute was to make it a condition of
the bringing of writs of error in criminal cases that if the error
was one in the award of punishment only, that error should be
corrected, and, as remarked by Chief Justice Shaw, this did not
disturb the fundamental principles of right. Jacquins v. Commonwealth, 9 Cush. 279. Indeed, in many jurisdictions it has
been held that the appellate court has the power, when there
has been an erroneous sentence, to remand the case to the
trial court for sentence according to law. Reynolds v. United
States, 98 U. S.145, 168; In re Bonner, 151 U. S.242; lIen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

derson v. People, 165 Illinois, 607; Beale v. Comnnonwealt]k, 25
Penn. St. 11. And we have repeatedly decided that the review
by an appellate court of the final judgment in a criminal case,
however grave the offense of which the accused is convicted,
is not a necessary element of due process of law, and that the
right of appeal may be accorded by the State to the accused
upon such conditions as the State deems proper. Meiane v.
J)arston, 153 U. S. 684; Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S. 272;
K-ohl v. Leldback, 160 U. S. 293, 297.
. As this statute was reasonable, was intended for the benefit
of the accused as well as of the community, and was entirely
within the admitted powers of the State, we are unable to see
that it is in itself open to attack as being unconstitutional; and
as this plaintiff in error set the proceedings in question in motion,
and they conformed to the statute, we do not perceive how they
can be regarded as otherwise than valid.
In prosecuting his former writ of error plaintiff in error voluntarily accepted the result, and it is well settled that a convicted person cannot by his own act avoid the jeopardy in which
he stands, and then assert it as a bar to subsequent jeopardy.
Ball v. United States, 163 U. S. 662, illustrates the rule.
There Millard F. Ball, John C. Ball and Robert E. Boutwell
had been indicted, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Texas, for the murder of one Box, and
on trial Millard F. Ball had been acquitted and discharged, and
John C. Ball and Boutwell convicted and sentenced to death.
The condemned having brought the case here on error, it was
held that the indictment was fatally defective, and the judgment
was reversed and the cause remanded with a direction to quash
the indictment. Ball v. United States, 140 U. S. 118. The
mandate went down, the indictment was dismissed, and a new
indictment was returned against all three defendants. To this
Millard F. Ball filed a plea of former jeopardy and former acquittal, and John C. Ball and Boutwell filed a plea of former
jeopardy by reason of their trial and conviction upon the former
indictment, and of the dismissal of that indictment. Both these
pleas were overruled, defendants .pleaded not guilty, were convicted and sentenced to death.

MURPHY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

On their writ of error this court held that a general verdict
of acquittal upon the issue of not guilty to an indictment undertaking to charge murder, and not objected to before the verdict
as insufficient in that respect, is a bar to a second indictment
for the same killing. Mr. Justice Gray, delivering the opinion,
said
"An acquittal before a court having no jurisdiction is, of
course, like all the proceedings in the case, absolutely void, and
therefore no bar to subsequent indictment and trial in a court
which has jurisdiction of the offense. Commonwealth v. Peters,
12 Met. 387; 2 Hawk. P. C. c. 35, § 3; 1 Bishop's Criin. Law,
§ 1028. But although the indictment was fatally defective, yet,
if the court had jurisdiction of the cause and of the party, its
jud gment is not void, but only voidable by writ of error, and
until so avoided, cannot be collaterally impeached. If the judgment is upon a verdict of guilty, and unreversed, it stands good,
and warrants the punishment of the defendant accordingly, and
he could not be discharged by a writ of habeas corpus. Ex
*arte Parks,93 U. S. 18. If the judgmnent is upon an acquittal,
the defendant, indeed, will not seek to have it reversed; and
the government cannot. United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310."
The judgment was reversed as to Millard F. Ball, and judgment rendered for him upon his plea of former acquittal.
But as to John C. Ball and Boutwell, it was ruled that the
Circuit Court rightly overruled their plea of former jeopardy,
and it was said (163 U. S. 662, 671):
"Their plea of former conviction cannot be sustained, because
upon a writ of error, sued out by themselves, the judgment and
sentence against them were reversed, and the indictment ordered
to be dismissed. IHow far, if they had taken no steps to set
aside the proceedings in the former case, the verdict and sentence therein could have been held to bar a new indictment
against them, need not'be considered, because it is quite clear
that a defendant, who procures a judgment against him upon
an indictment to be set aside, may be tried anew upon the same
indictment, or upon another indictment, for the same offense of
which he had been convicted. Ilopt v. Utali, 104 U. S. 631 ;
110 U. S. 574; 114 U. S. 488 ; 120 U. S. 430; Regina v. Drury,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

3 Cox Crim. Cas. 544; S. C. 3 Car. & Kirw. 193; Commonwealth
v. Gould, 12 Gray, 171."
Tested by these rulings, plaintiff in error's original sentence
was not void but voidable, and if the sentence had been complied with he could not have been punished again for the same
offense. Commonwealth v. Load, 3 Met. 328. But as the original sentence was set aside at his own instance, he could not
allege that he had been in legal jeopardy by reason thereof.
In Ex]parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, Lange had been found guilty
of an offense which was l)unishable by imprisonment or line, but
the Circuit Court sentenced him to imprisonment and fine. le
paid the fine, and thereafter the Circuit Court vacated the
former judgment, and sentenced him again to imprisonment
only. It was held that it was a fundamental principle that no
man could be twice punished by judicial judgments for the same
offense, and that when a judgment had been executed by full
satisfaction of one of the alternative penalties of the law, the
court could not change the judgment so as to impose another.
The present case does not fall within that decision, for here an
erroneous judgment was vacated on the application of the accused; the original sentence had not been fully satisfied; and
the second sentence was rendered in pursuance of the applicable
statute.
We repeat that this is not a case in which the court undertook
to impose in invitrm a second or additional sentence for the
same offense, or to substitute one sentence for another. On the
contrary, plaintiff in error availed himself of his right to have
the first sentence annulled so that another sentence niiight be
rendered. And as the decision which he sought and obtained
involved the determination that he had been improperly sentenced under chapter 504 of the Statutes of 1895, providing for
so-called indeterminate sentences, but should have been sentenced under antecedent statutes, which differed from that, it
followed that the second sentence must be a new sentence to the
extent of those differences, and might turn out to be for a longer
period of imprisonment.
Chapter 504 of the Statutes of 1895 provided for the establishment by the court of a maximum and minimum term of

MURPHY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

imprisonment, and for a permit to the convict to be at liberty
after the expiration of the mininum term, some changes being
made in this regard by chapter 371 of the Statutes of 1898.
Section 20 of chapter 222 of the Public Statutes, in force when
the offences charged were committed, provided for certain deductions to be made for good behavior. These and other statutes bearing on the subject are fully set forth and examined in
Muiphy v. Comtonwealth, 172 Mass. 264. And it is insisted
that, under the present sentence, even if the prisoner received
the maximum deduction, he cannot be released as soon as he
might have been released under the original sentence, and that
moreover he cannot receive as large deductions under this sentence as he might have received if it had been pronounced in the
first instance.
But we agree with the Supreme Judicial Court in the opinion
that even if this were so, it would make no difference in principle
so far as the validity of the second sentence was concerned.
In Jacquins' Case, 9 Cush. 279, the Supreme Judicial Court,
in lieu of the prior sentences, sentenced the defendant to certain
years of imprisonment, "the term to be computed from the time
when the first sentence commenced its operation."
In the case at bar, the accused was originally sentenced to
imprisonment for the term of not less than ten nor more than
fifteen years. This being set aside, and the Superior Court,
being manifestly of opinion that imprisonment for twelve years
and six months was the punishment demanded under the circumstances, deducted from twelve years and six months, two
years, seven months and nine days, which he had already served,
and sentenced him to nine years, ten months and twenty-one
days. As the original sentence had been vacated on the application of the accused it is clear that if the second sentence were
productive .of any injustice the remedy was to be obtained in
another quarter and did not rest with the court,
The Superior Court, being obliged to render a specific sentence, deducted the time Murphy bad served notwithstanding
the case really occupied the same posture as if he had sued out
his writ of error on the day he was first sentenced, and the mere
fact that by reason of his delay in doing so he had served a
VOL. cLXXVi-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

portion of the erroneous sentence could not entitle him to assert
that he was being twice punished. Perhaps the court was the
more moved to do this because six months after Murphy had
been sent to the state prison the Supreme Judicial Court indicated in Commonwealth v. Brown, 167 Mass. 144, that the indeterminate sentence act might be applicable to convictions for
offences qommitted prior to its passage, although the question
was not definitely presented and disposed of, and then to the
contrary, until raised on Murphy's writ of error. 172 Mass. 264.
But, however that may be, the plea of former jeopardy or of
former conviction cannot be maintained because of service of
part of a sentence, reversed or vacated on the prisoner's own
application.
And so as to the infliction of one day's solitary confinement.
The Massachusetts statutes provide that where the punishment
of imprisonment in the state prison is awarded, solitary confinement not exceeding twenty days at a time shall form part
thereof. This requirement was complied with here by the infliction of one day. This was part of the sentence, but not in
itself a distinct and separate punishment, and when the sentence
was vacated the second sentence .necessarily contained some
solitary confinement as part of the imprisonment. Apparently
this might have been dispensed with by the consent of the convict, but this he refused to give.
In People ex rel. Tiezza v. BP usl, 128 N. Y. 529, 536, Trezza

had been sentenced to death, and prosecuted an al)peal to the
Court of Appeals of New York, pending which he was taken
to the state prison and detained in close confinement. He applied for the writ of habeas corpus on the ground that he had
been once punished, which was denied. The Court of Appeals
held that by the statute an appeal from a conviction in a capital case stayed the judgment of death only, and not that part
of the judgment which provided for the custody of the defendant between his removal to the state prison and his execution;
and Andrews, J., speaking for the court, said: "It not in frequently happens that the execution of a sentence to imprison.

ment continues, notwithstanding an appeal.

The convict, it he

obtains a reversal of the judgment, and is again convicted on a

second trial, may be sentenced to a now term of imprisonment,

MURPHY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

and the court is not bound to regulate the second sentence in
view of the fact that the convict has already suffered imprisonment under the first sentence. The resentence in the present
case was rendered necessary by reason of the fact that Trezza,
by his own act in his own interest, had by his appeal prevented
the execution of the death penalty at the time fixed by the
first sentence."
Trezza also applied to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York for a writ of habeas
corpus, which the court refused to grant, and its order was affirmed by this court on appeal. 142 U. S. 160.
In JeElvaine v. Brush, 142 U. S. 155, McElvaine had been
sentenced to death, and the judgment was reversed and a new
trial granted. He was again convicted and sentenced, and the
judgment affirmed on appeal. 125 N. Y. 596. McElvaine presented his petition for habeas copus to the Circuit Court,, which
was denied, and the case brought to this court. The order was
affirmed; and we said, among other things, that " so far as the
confinement had taken place under the first sentence and warrant, that resulted from the voluntary act of the petitioner in
prosecuting an appeal."
In Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172, it was reiterated
that "the State has full control over the procedure in its cou'ts,
both in civil and criminal cases, subject only to the qualifications that such procedure must not work a denial of fundamental rights, or conflict with specific and applicable provisions of
the Federal Constitution." We ind no such denial or conflict
in this case. As we have said, plaintiff in error must be deemed
to have sought a correction of the original erroneous judgment,
and held to abide the consequences. Hie seems to have then
supposed that it might be decided that the prior statutes were
repealed by the act of 1895, and that as he could not be sentenced under that act, he might be discharged altogether. In
this it turned out that hie was mistaken, as the Supreme Judicial Court adjudged that the prior statutes were still in force
so far as he was concerned, and we concur with that court in
holding that his present contention is equally unavailing to"effect his release.
Jvudrnent a., rmecI,

