OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

bell v. Knights of Pythias, 168 Mass. 397, in which a different
conclusion was reached upon a similar state of facts. In that
case plaintiff put his right to recover upon the theory that the
mailing of the remittance was a compliance with the requirement of section six that such payments and dues should be received on or before the last day of the month. This position
was held by the court to be untenable. It was said that the
money must have been actually received at the office of the
Board of Control before the end of the month. The question of
agency was not considered, and the trend of the argument is so
different that the case cannot be considered an authority upon
the propositions here discussed. The cases of Peet v. Ifnight8
of Maccabees, 83 Michigan, 92, and 3eClure v. Supreme Lodge,
59 N. Y. Sup. 764, are not in point.
The judgments of the Circuit Court and of the Court of Appeals were right, and they are therefore
Afirmed.

ARNOLD v. HATCH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 183.

Argued March 14, 1900. -Decided

April 9, 1900.

A farmer made an arrangement with his son under which it was agreed
that the latter should undertake the management of the farm, farm
implements and live stock, make all repairs, -pay all taxes and other
expenses, sell the products of the farm, replace all implements as they
wore out, keep up all live stock, and have as his own the net profits. It
was further agreed that each party should be at liberty to terminate the
arrangement at any time, and that the son should return to his father the
farm with its implements, stock and other personalty, of the same kind
and amount as was on the farm when the father retired, and as in good
condition as when he took it. Held, that no sale of the farm property
was intended; that the title to the same remained in the father, and that
the property was not subject to execution by creditors of the son.
THIS was an intervening petition

by the defendant in error,

ARNOLD v. HATCH.
Opinion of the Court.

Lewis Hatch, filed in the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, in the case of Jose~p G. Heim, Receiver, v.

Frank IV. h1atch, praying for the release by the marshal and
a return to petitioner of a large amount of cattle and other
farm property alleged to belong to him, and leyied upon by
the marshal as the property of Frank W. Hatch.
The cause originated in an action begun in the District Court
for the Northern District of Illinois by Joseph G. Heim, as receiver of the First National Bank of Southbend, Washington,
against Frank W. Hatch, to. enforce against the defendant an
individual liability as a stockholder of the bank, which had
become insolvent. Defendant having made default, a judgment was rendered against him in the sum of $4351.09 'and
costs, for which an execution was issued and levied upon the
cattle and other farm property in dispute. Whereupon Lewis
Hatch, the father of Frank W. Hatch, filed this petition, to
which the plaintiff in error, John W. Arnold, marshal for the
Northern District of Illinois, made answer, denying the petitioner's ownership of the property, and admitting his levy
upon it as the property of Frank W. Hatch.
The case came on for trial before a jury, and resulted in a
verdict for the petitioner, upon which udgment was entered.
On writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals this judgment was affirmed. 60 U. S. App. 659. Whereupon plaintiff
in error, Arnold, sued out a writ of error from this court.
Mr. Kenesaw X. landis for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George A. Dupuy for defendant in error.
BROWN, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
AIRx. JUSTICE

This case presents the frequent question of the title and
ownership of personal property, levied upon as the property
of an execution debtor, and claimed by another, party. The
undisputed facts are that, in 1883, the petitioner, Lewis Hatch,
who then and for about twenty-five years prior thereto, had re-

OCTOBER TERM, U599.
Opinion of the Court.

sided upon and worked a large farm in McHenry County, Illinois, made a contract with his son, Frank W. Hatch, a young
man just out of school, under which it was agreed that the
latter should undertake the management of the farm, farm
implements and live stock, make all repairs, pay all taxes and
other expenses, replace all implements as they were worn out,
keep up all live stock, and have as his own the net profits. It
was further stipulated that each party should be at liberty to
terminate the arrangement at any time, and that the son
should turn back to his father the farm with its implements,
stock and other personalty, of the same kind and amount as
was on the farm when the father retired,
and in as good condition as when he took them.
As all questions connected with the veracity of witnesses, the
baro-,nfdes of this arrangement, and its exact terms, are forestalled by the verdict of the jury, we are bound to consider the
case as if the arrangement had been reduced to writing, and
such writing were the only evidence bearing upon the subject.
As the only testimony in the case was that of the father and
the son, and as their statements were entirely harmonious, we
are simply to inquire as to the correctness of the charge of the
court to the jury, that, if they believed the arrangement was
substantially such as was stated by the petitioner and his son,
it did not have the effect in law to vest the title to any of the
property or proceeds of the farm in Frank W. Hatch, although
he may have had power to sell the same to others without any.
further authority from his father. There was evidence showing, not only that the son assumed the entire management of
the farm, but that he was at full liberty to sell and dispbse of
its products, to replace old stock and implements with new, and
to appropriate the net proceeds to himself; and that his only
obligation was to return the property on demand, or substituted
property of the same kind and amount, whenever either party
should see fit to terminate the arrangement.
We do not know that it is necessary to fix an exact definition
to the relations between these parties, or to determine whether
the law of master and servant, landlord and tenant, or bailor
and bailee, governed the transaction. The main object is to

ARNOLD v. HATCH.
Opinion of the Court.

ascertain the intent of the parties with respect to the ownership
of the property. There is no doubt that the title to the farm
remained in the father, who continued to occupy the homestead
and provided accommodations for certain of the farm hands;
that the arrangement was made with his son soon after he left
school, and apparently for the purpose of starting him in business. He was then unmarried, and lived in the same house with
his father, who furnished the board of the hired men until after
the son was married, when, after living some time with his wife
in the homestead, he built at his own expense a small house for
his own use about twenty or thirty rods distant from that of
his father, although some of the hired men still lodged with the
latter. In 1887, the son, Frank W. Hatch, gave up the arrangement, moved with his family to Texas, and settled there with
the intention of making it his home. Upon going there he left
all the stock upon the farm just as he had received it from his
father. He subsequently became dissatisfied, and returned to
his father's farm under the same arrangement. He continued
under this arrangement until 1892, when he went to th6 State
of Washington for the purpose of locating there; invested in
real estate and apparently in bank stock, in which he appears
to have been unfortunate. Again returning to Illinois, he resumed the management of the farm.
It further appeared from the tax schedules of personal property in that school. district that the property in question was
assessed in the name of Frank W. Hatch. While this testimony
was doubtless entitled to consideration, the jury evidently did
not give it great weight, as it was part of the agreement between the father and son that the latter should pay the taxes.
There was also evidence that, in the spring of 1897, the son
sold to his father for $1000 a quantity of wool produced on the
farm; but as it was also a part of the agreement that the son
should have the product of the farm, there was nothing inconsistent with it in this sale of the wool.
It is very evident from this testimony that no sale of the farm
property was intended. There was no purchase price agreed
upon, no time fixed for the payment; and the reservation that
the arrangement might be terminated the day after it was made,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

as well as that it might indefinitely continue, is wholly inconsistent with the theory of a sale. Indeed, th only indicium of
a sale is the provision that the identical property received need
not be returned, but that other property of a similar kind might
be substituted. Plaintiff in error relies in this connection upon
a line of cases which hold that, where a man turns over personal property to another, under an arrangement by which the
latter is not obliged to restore the specific articles of property,
but is at liberty to deliver other property of the same kind and
value, the receiver becomes the owner of the property; as where
wheat is delivered to an elevator with the understanding that
the obligation to return it shall be discharged by the delivery
of other like wheat, Story on Bailments, ยง 439; Zonergan v.
Stewart, 55 Illinois, 44; Bretz v. Diehl, 117 Penn. St. 589;
Smith v. Clark, 21 Wend. 83; Johnston v. Browne, 27 Iowa,
200, although even then, a usage to return substituted property
may turn the transaction into a bailment. Erwin v. Clark, 13
Michigan, 10. But these authorities have no application to the
case under consideration. Here there was no provision for a
substituted property beyond that required by the nature of the
property delivered. The arrangement was to be indefinite in
its continuance. The property was mostly animals which would
necessarily die, be sold or slaughtered in a few years, and a
gradual substitution of their progeny or other similar cattle, and
a renewal of worn out implements, was all that was contemplated. The stipulation that this might be done was a mere
incident of the main agreement by which the property was to
be returned in like good order and condition as received.
The son was undoubtedly entrusted with extensive powers,
but no greater than the management of a large farm would necessarily require. The father had become an old man, and naturally wished to rid himself of the responsibility, even of supervision, and to put his son upon the footing of an independent
farmer. It is possible that he contemplated leaving the property to his son upon his death; but it was clearly his intention
to reserve the power of revoking the arrangement in case it did
not prove satisfactory to him. As the father remained in possession of the farm, there was nothing in the mere fact that he

HYDE v. BISHOP IRON CO.
Statement of the Case.

entrusted his son with the management, that was necessarily
calculated to mislead creditors into the belief that the latter was
the owner of the property. Apparently the receiver was unable
to produce evidence manifestly inconsistent with the agreement
as sworn to by both father and son, and their testimony authorized the jury to find the ownership of the property to be in the
former.
Similar agreements have been sustained as against creditors in a number of cases. Chatard v. O'Donovan, 80 Indiana,
20'; Wilbur v. Sessin, 53 Barb. 258; Bowman v. Bradley, 101
Penn. St. 351 ; Kerrains v. People, 60 N. Y. 221 ; Haywood v.
.Miller, 3 Hill, 90; Brown v. Scott, 7 Vermont, 57; Peters v.
Smith, 42 Illinois, 422;,State v. Curtis, 4 Dev. & Battle Law

(N. C.), 222.
There was no error in the judgment of the Court of Appeals,
and it is therefore
A.firmed.

HYDE v. BISHOP IRON COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 126. Argued January 29, 30, 1900.-

Decided April 9, 1900.

On the evidence set forth in the statement of facts and in the opinion of
the court, it is held, that there was on the part of the entryman a distinct
violation of section 2262 of the Revised Statutes, with regard to contracts
by which the tract for which he applies is not to inure to another's benefit, and the adverse judgment of the court below is sustained.
ON April 3, 1895, the Bishop Iron Company, one of the defendants in error, filed in the District Court of the Eleventh
Judicial District of Minnesota, in and for the county of St.
Louis, its complaint in ejectment, alleging that it was the absolute owner in fee simple and entitled to the immediate possession of the undivided 1 of the following described land, situate
in the county of St. Louis, to wit: The N.E. I of the S.W.

