BOSKE v. COMINGORE.

459

Syllabus.

BOSKE v. COMINGORE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Submitted January 8, 1900. - Decided April 9, 1900.

A United States Collector of Internal Revenue was adjudged by a court of
limited jurisdiction in Kentucky to be in contempt because he refused,
while giving his deposition in a case pending in the state court, to file
copies of certain reports made by distillers, and which reports were in
his custody as a subordinate officer of the Treasury Department. He
based his refusal upon a regulation of that Department which provided:
"All records in the offices of collectors of internal revenue or of any of
their deputies are in their custody and control for purposes relating to
the collection of the revenues of the United States only. They have no
control of them and no discretion with regard to permitting the use of
them for any other purpose." This regulation was made by the Secretary of the Treasury under the authority conferred upon him by seetion 161 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, which authorized
that officer, as the head of an Executive Department of the Government,
"to prescribe regulations, not inconsistent with law, for the government
of his department, the conduct of its officers and clerks, the distribution
and performance of its business, and the custody, use and preservation
of the records, papers and property appertaining to it." The Collector
having been arrested under the order of the state authorities, sued out
a writ of habeas corputs before the District Court of the United States for
the Kentucky District. Iheld:
(1) That the case was properly brought directly from the District Court
to this court as one involving the construction or application of the
Constitution of the United States.
(2) As the petitioner was an officer in the revenue service of the United
States whose presence at his post of duty was important to the
public interests, and whose detention in prison by the state anthorities might have interfered with the regular and orderly course
of the business of the Department to which he belonged, it was
proper for the District Court to consider the questions raised by
the writ of habeas corpus and to discharge the petitioner if held in
violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States.
(3) The regulation adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized by section 161 of the Revised Statutes, and that section was
consistent with the Constitution of the United States. To invest
the Secretary with authority to prescribe regulations not incon-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.
sistent with law for the conduct of the business of his Department
and to provide for the custody, use and preservation of the records,
papers and property appertaining to it, was a means appropriate
and plainly adapted to the successful administration of the affairs
of his Department; and it was competent for him to forbid his subordinates to allow the use of official papers in their custody except
for the purpose of aiding the collection of the revenues of, the
United States.
(4) In determining whether the regulation in question was valid, the
court proceeded upon the ground that it was not to be deemed
invalid unless it was plainly and palpably against law.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. John G. Carlisle, Mr. Henry K. Winslow and Mr. William S. Taylor for appellant.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Boyd for appellee.
MR. JUSTicE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a final order of the District Court of
the United States for the District of Kentucky discharging
appellee, United States Internal Revenue Collector for the Sixth
Collection District in Kentucky, from the custody of the appellant as Sheriff of Kenton County in that Commonwealth.
The discharge was upon the ground that the imprisonment
and detention of the appellee were in violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States. That ruling presents the
only question to be considered.
Under date of April 15, 1898, the Commissioners of Internal
Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury

promulgated certain regulations for the government of collectors of internal revenue, as follows:
"All records in the offices of collectors of internal revenue or
of any of their deputies are in their custody and control for
purposes relating to the collection of the revenues of the United
States only. They have no control of them and no discretion
with regard to permitting the use of them for any other purpose.
Collectors are hereby prohibited from giving out any special tax

BOSKE v. COMINGORE.
Opinion of the Court.

records or any copies thereof to private persons or to local officers, or to produce such records or copies thereof in a state
court, whether in answer to sbpvnas duces tecum or otherwise.
Whenever such subponas shall have been served upon them,
they will appear in court in answer thereto and respectfully
decline to produce the records called for, on the ground of being
prohibited therefrom by the regulations of this department.
The information contained in the records relating to specialtax payers in the collector's office is furnished by these persons
under compulsion of law for the purpose of raising revenue for
the United States; and there is no provision of law authorizing
the sending out of these records or of any copies thereof for
use against the special-tax payers in cases not arising under the
laws of the United States. The giving out of such records or
any copies thereof by a collector in such cases is held to be
contrary to public policy and not to be permitted. As to any
other records than those relating to special-tax payers, collectors
are also forbidden to furnish them or any copies thereof at the
request of any person. Where copies thereof are desired for
the use of parties to a suit, whether in a state court or in a
court of the United States, collectors should refer the persons
interested to the following paragraph in rule X of the rules and
regulations of the Treasury Department, namely: In all cases
where copies of documents or records are desired by or on behalf of parties to a suit, whether in a court of the United States
or any other, such copies shall be furnished to the court only.
and on a rule of the court upon the Secretary of the Treasury
requesting the same. Whenever such rule of the court shall
have been obtained collectors are directed to carefully prepare
a copy of the record or document containing the information
called for and send it to this office, whereupon it will be transmitted to the Secretary of the Treasury with a request for its'
authentication, under the seal of the department, and transmission to the judge of the court calling for it, unless it should be
found that circumstances or conditions exist which makes it
necessary to decline, in the interest of the public service, to furnish such a copy."
These Treasury regulations being in force, a proceeding was

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

instituted in the County Court of Carroll County, Kentuckya court of limited jurisdiction -in the name of the Commonwealth against Elias Block & Sons, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount and value of a large amount of whisky which,
it was alleged, the defendants had in their bonded warehouses
for a named period, but had not listed for taxation, and of enforcing the assessment and payment of state and county taxes
thereon. Ky. Stat. § 4241.
In the progress of that proceeding the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, represented by the Auditor's agent, took the deposition of Comingore, Collector of Internal Revenue. In answer
to questions propounded to him, the Collector stated that Block
& Sons, owners of a distillery, made monthly reports to his
office of liquors manufactured by them and deposited in the
bonded warehouses on the distillery premises from 1887 on;
that the defendants made application from time to.timne for permission to withdraw liquors from bond; and that such reports,
commencing October 1, 1885, and ending July 1, 1897, were on
the files of his office, but not under his control except as Collector. He was then asked to file copies of those reports and
make them part 'of, his deposition. This he declined to do,
"under section 3167 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
and the rulings of the Department." That section reads:
"§ 3167. If any collector or deputy collector, or any inspector
or other officer acting under the authority of any revenue law
of the United States, divulges to any party, or makes known in
any other manner than may be provided by law, the operations,
style of work or apparatus of any manufacturer or producer
visited by him in the discharge of his official duties, he shall be
subject to a fine of not exceeding one thousand dollars, or to be
imprisoned for not exceeding one year, or to both, at the discretion of the court, and shall be dismissed from office, and be forever thereafter incapable of holding any office under the Government." Being asked what rulings of the Department he
referred to other than section 3167 of the Revised Statutes, he
said: "The Department does not permit the giving out of anything contained in internal revenue returns or documents by a
collector, storekeeper or any other officer of a collection district

BOSKE v. COMINGORE.

' 463

Opinion of the Court.

for purposes other than those which the statutes of the United
States contemplate." That ruling he said was made by the
Secretary of the Treasury through the Commissioner of InternalRevenue.
In consequence of the refusal of the collector to file and make
part of his deposition copies of the above reports of the defendants, the notary public before whom his deposition was taken
adjudged him to be in contempt and ordered him to pay to the
Commonwealth a fine of five dollars and to be confined in the
county jail for six hours or until he was willing to furnish the
copies called for or permit access to the, records of his office in
order that inTormation might be obtained to be used as evidence
in the above case.
The matter having been reported by the notary public to
the Carroll County Court, as required by section 538 of the
Kentucky Civil Code of Practice, that court made the following order:
"It is therefore ordered and adjudged by the court that the
plaintiff's motions be sustained and that plaintiff is entitled to
use as evidence the facts stated in the reports and papers filed
by any or all of the defendants in the office of the Collector of
Internal Revenue for the Sixth District of Kentucky, and also
such facts as are stated in the reports made to said office by certain officers known as United States storekeepers, and any other
sirnilar records, papers, documents or exemplifications in,
said
office tending to show the amount of liquors on hand at the distillery of the defendants on the 14th day of September, 1889,
1890, 1891, 1893, 1894, 1895, 1896 and on the 15th day of November, 1892 ; it is further ordered that the witness, D. N. Comingore, make or cause to be made or permit the plaintiff, its,
agent or attorneys, to make true copies of such of said papers
as the plaintiff or its attorneys may demand, and that said Comingore, as Collector, attest the same and attach his seal of office
thereto, if he has such seal, and that he permit the plaintiff or
its agents or attorneys to compare said copies with the originals
and verify same, and that he shall also testify further in regard
to same, if demand be made, and leave is hereby given to complete the taking of said deposition on giving proper notice, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

for this purpose the clerk is directed upon request of plaintiff's
attorneys to transmit said deposition as now on file to W. A.
Price, notary public, Covington, Kentucky.

It is further ad-

judged that the action of the notary public, Price, in adjudging
the witness, D. N. Comingore, to be in contempt for failure to
file copies of reports, papers, documents and exenplifications or
to testify as to their contents, as requested, be sustained and
affirmed, and that the Commonwealth of Kentucky recover of
said D. N. Comingore the sum of five dollars as a fine, and that
he be taken by the sheriff of Kenton County, Kentucky, and
confined in the jail of said county for the space of six hours, or
until he signifies his willingness to comply with the request
made in the deposition attempted to be taken, as follows: Please
file official copies of the reports made to your office by Block
& Son as to the amount of liquor which they manufactured and
deposited in the bonded warehouses located on their distillery
premises from the year 1887 down to the present time, and also
official copies of applications made by them to your office during said time for permission. to withdraw such liquors from
bond. Also with the following request: Please file official
copies of such reports of the United States storekeepers as show
the liquors on hand at the warehouses on the distillery premises
of the defendants in Carroll County on September 15, 1890,
September 15, 1891, November 15, 1892, September 15, 1893,
1894, 1895 and 1896."
This action of the County Court having been brought to the
attention of the Collector, he still refused to give the copies
called for or to allow access to or inspection of the records of
his office for the purposes indicated by the questions propounded
to him. He was thereupon again held by the notary public
to be in contempt, and, the petition states, that officer adjudged
that "the Commonwealth of Kentucky recover of your petitioner the sun of five dollars as a fine, and that he be taken by
the sheriff or some constable of Kenton County and confined
in the jail of said county for the space of six hours or until he
shall signify his willingness to purge himself of the said contempt and testify and give the information from the records
and documents under his control and in his custody as Collec-

BOSKE v. COMINGORE.
Opinion of the Court.

tor of Internal Revenue of the United States for the Sixth District of Kentucky or allow an inspection of his records for the
purpose of obtaining such information for use as evidence in
said action of The Com'nmonwealth of Kentucky v. Block et al.,
in said county court," etc.
Having been taken into custody by the Sheriff under this
order, the Collector sued out a writ of habeas corpus and was
discharged from custody by the order of the United States District Court for the Kentucky District.
1. In the brief of the Assistant Attorney General some doubt
is expressed whether we can take cognizance of this case upon
appeal fron the District Court. Prior to the passage c the
act of March 3, 1891, establishing the Circuit Court of Appeals,
an appeal from the final judgment of a District Court on an
application for a writ of habeas corpus by or on behalf of one
alleged to be restrained of his liberty in violation of- the Constitution or any law of the United States went first to the
Circuit Court. Rev. Stat. §763. But by 'the above act of
1891 it was provided that appeals or writs of error may. be
taken from the District Courts or from the Circuit Courts
direct to this court in certain cases, among others, "in any case
that involves the construction or application of t1le Constiution of the United States." 26 Stat. 826, 828, c. 517, § 5. The
present case belongs to that class. The, appellee, who was discharged upon habeas corpus, invoked the protection of the Constitution against his being restrained of his liberty by the
appellant acting under 'an order of commitment issued by an
inferior state court; and the judgment of the District Court
proceeded upon the ground that the proceedings against him
were inconsistent with the laws of the United States and with
the regulations of the Treasury Department legally prescribed
under those laws. Throughout, the contention of the appellant
has been that the Constitution forbade the giving of the force
of law to those regulations adopted by merely executive officers. We think the case is properly here on appeal as one involving the construction and application of, the Constitution of
the United States.
2. Of the power of the District Court to discharge the appelVOL. CLXXVII-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

lee if he was held in custody in violation of the Constitution of
the United States, no doubt can be entertained. It is true that
in Exparte Royall, 117 U. S. 241, 251, it was said that although
a court of the United States had power to discharge one held
in custody by state authorities in violation of the Constitution
of the United States, it was not bound to interpose immediately
upon application being made for the writ, but should exercise
the discretion with which it was invested "in the light of the
relations existing, under our system of government, between
the judicial tribunals of the Union and of the States, and in
recognition of the fact that the public good requires that those
relations be not disturbed by unnecessary conflict between
courts equally bound. to guard and protect rights secured by
the Constitution." Hence, the general rule that the courts of
the United States should not interfere by habeas corpus with
the custody by state authorities of one claiming to be held in
violation of the Constitution or laws of the United States, until
after final action by the state courts in the case in which such
custody exists. Ex parte ]?oyall, above cited; Yew York v.
Eno, 155 U. S. 89, and authorities there cited; Whkitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231, and authorities there cited. But to this
general rule there are exceptions which are thus indicated in
Ex parte Royall : "When the petitioner is in custody by state
authority for an act done or omitted to be done in pursuance
of a law of the United States, or of an order, process or decree
of a court or judge thereof; or where, being a subject or citizen of a foreign State, and domiciled therein, he is in custody,
under like authority, for an act done or omitted under any alleged right, title, authority, privilege, protection or exemption
claimed under the commission, or order, or sanction of any foreign State, or under color thereof, the validity and effect whereof
depend upon the law of nations; in such and like cases of urgency, involving the authority and operations of the General
Government, or the obligations of this country to, or its relations with, foreign nations, the courts of the United States have
frequently interposed by writs of habeas corpus and discharged
prisoners who were held in custody under state authority."
. The present case was one of urgency, in that the appellee was

BOSKE v. COMINGORE.
Opinion of the Court.

an officer in the revenue service of the United States whose
presence at his post of duty was important to the public interests, and whose detention in prison by the state authorities
might have interfered with the regular and orderly course of
the business of the Department to which he belonged. The
District Court therefore did not err in determining the question
of constitutional law raised by the application for a writ of
habeas corpus, and rendering inal judgment.
3. We come then to inquire whether the imprisonment of
the appellee was in violation of the Constitution or laws of the
United States. This question was fully examined in the elaborate and able opinion of Judge Evans of the District Court.
96 Fed. Rep. 552.
The commitment of the appellee was because of a refusal to
file with his deposition copies of certain reports made to him
by Block & Sons, distillers, of liquors manufactured by them
and deposited in the bonded warehouses on the distillery premises during a specified period. Manifestly, he could not ha- e
filed the copies called for without violating regulati6ns formally
promulgated by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue with the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury. If these regulations
were such as the Secretary could legally prescribe, then, it must
be conceded, the state authorities were without jurisdiction to
compel the Collector to violate them.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue is an officer in the
Department of the Treasury. Rev. Stat. § 319. And the Secretary of the Treasury, as the head of an Executive Department
of the Government, was authorized "to prescribe regulations,
not inconsistent with law, for the government of his Department, the conduct of its officers and clerks, the distribution and
performance of its business, and the custody, use and preservation of the records, papers and property appertaining to it."
Rev. Stat. § 161.
Now, the reports or copies of reports in the possession of the
Collector-for not producing copies of which he was adjudged
to be imprisoned-were records and papers appertaining to the
business of the Treasury Department and belonging to the
United States. The Secretary was authorized by statute to

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

make regulations, not inconsistent with law, for the custody,
use and preservation of such records, papers and property. The
Constitution gives Congress power to make all laws necessary
and proper for carrying into execution the powers vested by
that instrument in the Government of the United States or in
any Department or officer thereof. Const. Art. 1, § 8. That
power was exerted by Congress when it authorized the Secretary of the Treasury. to provide by regulations not inconsistent
with law for the government of his Department, the conduct of
its officers and clerks, the distribution and performance of its
business, and the custody, use and preservation of the records,
papers and property appertaining to it. The regulations in
question may not have been absolutely or indispensably necessary to accomplish the objects indicated by the statute. But
that is not the test to be applied when we are determining
whether an act of Congress transcends the powers conferred
upon it by the Constitution. Congress has a large discretion as
to the means to be employed in the execution of a power conferred upon it, and is not restricted to "those alone without
which the power would be nugatory;" for, "all means which
are appropriate, which are plainly adapted" to the end authorized to be attained, "which are not prohibited, but consist with
the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional."
"Where the law is not prohibited, and is really calculated to
effect any of the objects entrusted to the Government, to undertake here to inquire into the degree of its necessity would be to
pass the line which circumscribes the judicial department and
to tread on legislative ground."
fcCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316, 415, 421, 423. In the more recent case of 1ogan
v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, 283, 293, this court, referring
to the above constitutional provision, said that "in the exercise
of this general power of legislation, Congress may use any
means, appearing to it most eligible and appropriate, which are
adapted to the end to be accomplished, and are consistent with
the letter and the spirit of the Constitution." Again: "Every
right created by, arising under or dependent upon the Constitution of the United States may be protected and enforced by
Congress by such means and in such manner as Congress, in

BOSKE v. COMINGORE.
Opinion of the Court.

the exercise of the correlative duty of protection, or of the legislative powers conferred upon it by the Constitution, may in
its discretion deem most eligible and best adapted to attain the
object."
Can it be said that to invest the Secretary of the Treasury with
authority to prescribe regulations not inconsistent with law for
the conduct of the business of his Department, and to provide
for the custody, use and preservation of the records, papers and
property appertaining to it, was not a means appropriate and
plainly adapted to the successful administration of the affairs
of that Department? Manifestly not. The bare statement of
the proposition suggests this conclusion, and extended argument to support it is unnecessary.
This brings us to the question whether it was inconsistent
with law for the Secretary to adopt a regulation declaring that
all records in the offices of collectors of internal revenue, or any
of their deputies, are in their custody and control "for purposes
relating to the collection of the revenues of the United States
only," and that collectors "have no control of them, and no
discretion with regard to permitting the use of them for any
other purpose."
There is certainly no statute which expressly or by necessary
implication forbade the adoption of such a regulation. This
being the case, we do not perceive upon what ground the regulation in question can be regarded as inconsistent with law, unless it be that the records and papers in the office of a collector
of internal revenue are at all times open of right to inspection
and examination by the public, despite the wishes of the Department. That cannot be admitted. The papers in question,
copies of which were sought from the appellee, were the property of the United States, and were in his official custody under
a regulation forbidding him to permit their use except for purposes relating to the collection of the revenues of the United
States. Reasons of public policy may well have suggested the
necessity, in the interest of the Government, of not allowing
access to the records in the offices of collectors of internal revenue, except as might be directed by the Secretary of the Treasury. The interests of persons compelled, under the revenue

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

laws, to furnish information as to their private business affairs
would often be seriously affected if the disclosures so made were
not properly guarded. Besides, great confusion might arise in
the business of the Department if the Secretary allowed the use
of records and papers in the custody of collectors to depend
upon the discretion or judgment of subordinates. At any rate,
the Secretary deemed the regulation in question a wise and
proper one, and we cannot perceive that his action was beyond
the authority conferred upon him by Congress. In determining whether the regulations promulgated by him are consistent
with law, we must apply the rule of decision which controls
when an dct of Congress is assailed as not being within the
powers conferred upon it by the Constitution; that is to, say, a
regulation adopted under section 161 of the Revised Statutes
should not be disregarded or annulled unless, in the judgment
of the court, it is plainly and palpably inconsistent with law.
Those who insist that such a regulation is invalid must make its
invalidity so manifest that the court has no choice except to
hold that the Secretary has exceeded his authority and employed means that are not at all appropriate to the end specified in the act of Congress.
In our opinion the Secretary, under the regulations as to the
custody, use and preservation of the records, papers and property appertaining to the business of his Department, may take
from a subordinate, such as a collector, all discretion as to permitting the records in his custody to be used for any other purpose than the collection of the revenue, and reserve for his own
determination all matters of that character.
The judgment of the District Court is

Affirned.

