MAST, FOOS & CO. v. STOVER M'F'G CO.
Statement of the Case.

the debatable questions presented in respect to this receipt or
release, we are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals was
right in refusing to uphold it.
The're is nothing else in the case that seems to us to call for
consideration. We find no error in the conclusions of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and its decree is
Affirmed.
Dissenting:

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE GRAY, MR.
JUSTICE BRowN and MR. JUSTICE WHITE.

MAST, FOOS & CO. v. STOVER MANUFACTURING
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 149. Argued February 1, 2, 1900. -Decided

April 23, 1900.

There is no obligation on the part of courts in patent causes to follow the
prior adjudications of other courts of coordinate jurisdiction, particularly if new testimony be introduced varying the issue presented to the
prior court. Comity is not a rule of law, but one of practice, convenience
and expediency. It requires of no court to abdicate its individual judgment, and is applicable only where, in its own mind, there may be a doubt
as to the soundness of its views.
Patent No. 433,531, granted to Mast, Foos & Company upon the application
of Samuel W. Martin, for an improvement in windmills was anticipated
by prior devices, and is invalid. Under the state of the art it required
no invention to adapt to a windmill the combination of an internal
-toothed spur wheel with an external toothed pinion, for the purpose of
converting a revolving into a reciprocating motion.
Where a case is carried by appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals from an
order granting a temporary injunction, it is within the power of that court
to dismiss the bill, if there be nothing in the affidavits tending to throw
doubt upon the existence or date of the anticipating devices, and, giving
them their proper effect, they establish the invalidity of the patent.

THIS was a writ of certiorari to review a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals dismissing a bill-in equity brought for

OCTOBER TERMH, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

the infringement of a patent, and appealed to that court from
an order of the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, granting a preliminary injunction. The bill was filed by
the petitioner, Mast, Foos & Company, an Ohio corporation, and
was founded upon letters patent No. 433,531, granted to the petitioner, upon the application of one Samuel W. Martin, for an
improvement in windmills.
In his specification the patentee states that the "invention
consists, essentially, of an improved back gear organization
involving an external toothed pinion, and an internal toothed
spur gear, the pinion being mounted on the wheel shaft, and
the gear having formed on or connected with it the wrist pin,
to which the operating pitnan is attached, whereby the speed
of the main shaft as applied to the wrist pin and pitman is reduced, and whereby, also, all pounding and lost motion is prevented as the pitman connection passes over the center and
changes from a pushing to a pulling action. This object is
accomplished by the fact that a plurality of the pinion teeth
are always engaged with the internal spur gear, resulting in
giving a perfectly uniform and smooth and noiseless reciprocating motion to the actuating rod, thereby prolonging the life
of the machine by saving it from constant jarring and preventing wear and tear."
"The freedom of the organization from lost motion and sudden jerks as the wrist pin passes over the center renders the
operation of the pump smooth and regular. This increases
the effectiveness of the pump and prevents undue wear and
tear."
The following diagram illustrates the patented combination:

MAST, FOOS & CO. v. STOVER M'F'G CO.
Counsel for Parties.

Petitioner sought a recovery only upon the first claim:
"1. The combination, with a windmill driving shaft and a
pinion thereon, of an internal toothed spur wheel mounted adjacent to the. said shaft and meshing with said pinion, a pitman
connected with the spur wheel, and an actuating rod connected
with the pitman."
Almost immediately upon filing the bill motion was made
for a preliminary injunction, which was granted, largely upon
the authority of an opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit in the case of Mast, Foos,& Co. v. The
Nanufacturing Co., 82 Fed. Rep. 327. An
Dempster .1Mill
appeal was taken from that order to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which not only reversed the order for the injunction, but
dismissed the bill. 85 Fed. Rep. 782; 60 U. S. App. 325.
Whereupon petitioner applied for and was granted a writ of
certiorari from this court.
Xr. H. A. Toulmin and Mr. Lysander Hill for Mast, Foos
& Co.
X1r. Ckarles .K.Ofleld and 2Mr. Charles C. Linthicum for the
Stover Manufacturing Company. .Mr.Loren L. Jorrisonwas
on their brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTWIE BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
1. Plaintiff complains of the action of the Circuit Court of
Appeals in refusing to follow the opinion of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in a case of this same plaintiff against the Dempster Mill Manufacturing Company, 49 U. S.
App. 508, and in reversing the order of the Circuit Court, which,
upon the ground of comity, followed the judgnent of that court
with respect to the validity and scope of the patent. Its contention is, practically, that the Circuit Court of Appeals should
have been governed by the prior adjudication of that court, and,
so far at least as concerned the interlocutory motion, should have
accorded it the same force and dignity as is accorded to judg
ments of this court. Premising that these considerations can
have no application in this court - whose duty it is to review
the judgments of all inferior courts, and in case of conflict to
decide between them-we think the plaintiff overstates somewhat the claims of comity.
Comity is not a rule of law, but one of practice, convenience
and expediency. It is something more than mere courtesy,
which implies only dgference to the opinion of others, since it
has a substantial value in securing uniformity of decision, and
discouraging repeated litigation of the same question. But its
obligation is not imperative. If it were, the indiscreet action
of one court might become a precedent, increasing in weight
with each successive adjudication, until the whole country was
tied down to an unsound principle. Comity persuades; but it
does not command. It declares not how a case shall be decided,
but how it may with propriety be decided. It recognizes the
fact that the primary duty of every court is to dispose of cases
according to the law and the facts; in a word, to decide them
right. In doing so, the judge is bound to determine them according to his own convictions. If he be clear in those convictions, he should follow them. It is only in cases where, in his
own mind, there may be a doubt as to the soundness of his
views that comity comes in play and suggests a uniformity of
ruling to avoid confusion, until a higher court has settled the

MAST, FOOS & CO. v. STOVER M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

law. It demands of no one that he shall abdicate his individual judgment, but only that deference shall be paid to the judgments of other co6rdinate tribunals. Clearly it applies only to
questions which have been actually decided, and which arose
under the same facts.
The obligation to follow the decisions of other courts in patent cases of course increases in proportion to the number of
courts which have passed upon the question, and the concordance of opinion may have been so general as to become a controlling authority. So, too, if a prior adjudication has followed
a final hearing upon pleadings and proofs, especially after a
protracted litigation, greater weight should be given to it than
if it were made upon a motion for a preliminary injunction.
These are substantially the views embodied in a number of wellconsidered cases in the Circuit Courts and Circuit Courts of
Appeals. Macbeth v. Gillinder, 54: Fed. Rep. 169; Electric
.Manvfacturing Co. v. Edison Electric Light Co., 61 Fed. Rep.
834; S. C., 18 U. S. App. 637; Edison Electric Light Co. v.
Beacon Vacuum Pump & Electrical Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 678,
and cases cited; Beach v. tobs, 82 Fed. Rep. 916; S. C., 63
U. S. App. 626; see,' also, Newall v. Wilson, 2 De Gex, M. &
G. 282.
Comity, however, has no application to questions not considered by the prior court, or, in patent cases, to alleged anticipating devices which were not laid before that court. As to such
the action of the court is purely original, though the fact that
such anticipating devices were not called to the attention of the
prior court is likely to open them to suspicion. It is scarcely
necessary to say, however, that when the case reaches this court
we should not reverse the action of the court below if we thought
it correct upon the merits, though we were of opinion it had
not given sufficient weight to the doctrine of comity.
2. The principal mechanism of an ordinary pumping windmill is directed to the conversion of the rapid rotation of the
wind wheel into the perpendicular reciprocating movement of
an ordinary pumping shaft. This is accomplished in much the
same way that the revolution of a water wheel is made to operate an upright saw, namely, by means of a pitman-of differentr

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

forms, but always with the object of converting one motion into
another. In doing this the revolving wheel, during one half of
a complete revolution, pulls, and during the other half pushes,
upon the pitman. This change from a pulling to a pushing
motion is accompanied, as the pitman rod passes over the center
of motion, by a pounding, which not only produces a peculiar
noise, but a strain upon the mechanism, resulting in frequent
breakages. These poundings naturally increase in force as the
mechanism becomes worn, and are sometimes heavy enough to
strip the cogs from the Wheels. Before the Martin patent the
device usually employed was a small external toothed wheel or
pinion mounted upon the shaft of the wind wheel, the cogs of
which interlaced with the teeth or cogs of a large spur wheel,
also externally toothed, and revolving at a greatly reduced
speed, to which the pitman bar was attached. As both wheels
were fitted with teeth on the outer edge of the rim, the consequence was that as each wheel presented its convexity to the
other, but one or two teeth of either wheel engaged with the
corresponding teeth of its fellow, and fractures of the teeth
were frequent. There was also a tendency of the two wheels
*to draw apart. Martin obviated this by providing the large or
spur wheel with teeth fitted on the inner side of the rim,
whereby the concavity of the rim was opposed to the convexity
of the pinion, and a greater number of teeth on each wheel engaged with the corresponding'teeth of the other, and the strain
occasioned by the change of motion was greatly reduced. That
the invention was a useful and popular one is shown by the fact
that it went into immediate use, and over three thousand windmills containing the combination are said to have been manufactured and sold since 1890.
Prior to Martin's patent, windmills of this class had been
driven by externally toothed spur wheels, interlacing with externally toothed pinions, and hence were subject to the pounding motion which proved so destructive to the mechanism, and
which it was the object of the Martin patent to obviate. The
defence to this case is largely based upon the fact that the prior
art had shown a large number of instances of spur wheels, provided with teeth on the inner side of the rim, operated by ex-

MAST, FOOS & CO. v. STOVER M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ternal toothed pinions. They are shown to have existed as early
as 1841, in a patent to Perry Davis, No. 2215, for an improvement in windmills, in which cogs fixed upon the inner periphery
of the rim, interlaced with an external toothed pinion, although
for a different purpose of keeping the wheel in the wind. They
are shown in several other patents for windmills, and also in a
large number of other patents for harvesters, hay tedders,
churns, mowing and sewing machines, and other mechanical
movements for the conversion of motion. It would appear from
the opinion and dissenting opinion in the case against the
Dempster Mill Manufacturing Company, 49 U. S. App. 508,
and from the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case,
that, while the combination of an external toothed pinion and
internal toothed spur wheel was common in other mechanisms,
the only windmill patent in that case offered as an anticipation
of Martin's was one granted to Edward Williams, September 19,
1876, No. 182,394, which showed a pitman actuated by two
eccentric external toothed gear wheels; and that the majority
of the court was of opinion that the transfer of the Martin device to windmills for the purpose named in the patent involved
invention within the cases of the Western Electric Co. v. _La Rae,
139 U. S. 601; Crane v. Price,Webster's Pat. Cases, 393, and
_Pot4s v. Creager, 155 U. S. 597. In the present case, however,
not only are there a large number of patents shown containing
this combination, but several in which the combination is used
for different purposes in the construction of windmills: For instance, in patent No. 254,527, to George H. Andrews; in patent No. 500,340, to S. W. Martin; in patent No. 271,635, to
William H. and Clifford A. Holcombe; in patent No. 273,226,
to Peter T. Coffield; in patent No. 317,731, to Coleman &
Turner; and in patent No. 346,674, to Henry G. Newell, in all
of which'the system is employed for different purposes in connection with windmills-generally to keep the wheel in the direction of the wind.
It is admitted that in none of the instances in which an internal toothed wheel is employed in windmills in connection
with an external toothed wheel, is the combination used for the
purpose specified in the Martin patent of converting the revofv-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

ing motion of the wind wheel shaft into the perpendicular motion of the pump shaft, though what is known as the Perkins'
mill presents the closest analogy.' This mill is shown, by fildisputable proof, to have been manufactured at Mishawaka, Indiana, as early as 1885, and to have been sold in considerable
numbers. It does not appear to have been a pumping mill;
and the upright shaft, instead of having the reciprocating perpendicular movement of a pumping shaft, revolved, and fur-

nished, by means of a bevelled gear at the lower end of the
shaft, a revolving motion to a horizontal shaft used for various
purposes upon farms. A large internal toothed wheel was placed
on the outer, ends of the arms of the spider to which the wind
wheel arms were bolted, the internal gearing of which wheel
engaged with a small gear wheel or pinion placed on an independent shaft, at the other end of which shaft a bevelled pinion
was placed, interlacing with a corresponding bevel.on the upper
end of the upright revolving shaft. As there was no conversion
or change of motion, the strain was uniform, and there was no
interruption of a continuous motion or a pounding to be provided against. This is undoubtedly a different use from that
to which the Martin combination was put; but the question is,
whether there is not such an analogy between the several uses
in which this combination was employed as to remove its adoption, in the use employed by Martin, from the domain of invention.
The case, then, reduces itself to this: The Martin combination had previously been used in a large number of mechanical
contrivances for the purpose of converting a rotary into a reciprocating motion, as is notably shown in patent No. 421,533, to
John Wenzin, for a reciprocating gearing; in patent No. 399,492,

to Edward Burke, for a means of conierting motion; in patent
No. 89,217, to E. R. Hall, for a wood sawyer; in reissue patent
No. 2746, to Christopher Hodgkins, for a sewing machine; in
patent to Krum and Brokaw, for harvesters, and in what is
known as Filer & Stowell Company's lath bolter, a sketch of
which is given in the record. The combination had also been
used in windmills, but not for the purpose of converting rotary
into reciprocating motion, although in the Perkins mill it was

MAST, FOOS & CO. v. STOVER M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

used in connection with the shaft of the wind wheel to transfer
power from a horizontal to an upright rotating shaft, which, at
its lower end, transferred its own motion by a bevelled gearing
to another horizontal shaft. The combination of two externally
toothed wheels had also been used in windmills for the purpose
of converting rotary into reciprocating motion.
Having all these various devices before him, and whatever the
facts may have been, he is chargeable with a knowledge of all
preexisting devices, did it involve an exercise of the inventive
faculty to employ.this same combination in a windmill for the
purpose of converting a rotary into a reciprocating motion .
We are of opinion that it did not., The main advantage derived
from it arose from the engagement of a large number of teeth
in each wheel. This peculiarity, however, inured to the advantage of every machine in which the combination was used for
the purpose of converting motion, although the jar produced by
the change of motion may not have been sufficient to endanger
a small machine. So, too, a reduction of speed is involved
wherever the cogs of a small wheel engage with the cogs of a
large one. Martin, therefore, discovered no new function; and
he created no new situation, except in the limited sense that he
first applied an internal gearing to the old Mast-Foos mill, which
was practically identical with the Martin pat.ent, except in the
use of an internal gearing. He invented no new device; he
used it for no new purpose; he applied it to no new machine.
All he did was to apply it to a new purpose in a machine where
it had not before been used for that purpose. The result may
have added to the efficiency and popularity of the earlier device, although to what extent is open to very considerable doubt.
In our opinion this transfer does not rise to the dignity of invention. We repeat what we said in Potts v. Creager,155 U. S.
597, 608, "If the new use be so nearly analogous to the former
one that the applicability of the device to its new use would
occur to a person of ordinary mechanical skill, it is only a case
of double use." The line between invention and mechanical
skill is often an exceedingly difflieult one to draw ; but in view
of the state of the art as heretofore shown, we cannot say that
the application of this old device to a use which was only new

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

in the particular machine to which it was applied, was anything
more than would have been suggested to an intelligent mechanic, who had before him the patents to which we have called
attention. While it is entirely true that the fact that this change
had not occurred to any mechanic familiar with windmills is
evidence of something more than mechanical skill in the person
who did discover it, it is probable that no one of these was fully
aware of the state of the art and the prior devices; but, as before stated, in determining the question of invention, we must
presume the patentee was fully informed of everything which
preceded him, whether such were the actual fact'or not. There
is no doubt the patent laws sometimes fail to do justice to an
individual who may, with the light he had before him, have
exhibited inventive talent of a high order, and yet be denied a
patent by reason of antecedent devices which actually existed,
but not to his knowledge, and are only revealed after a careful
search in the Patent Office. But the statute (sec. 4886) is inexorable. It denies the patent, if the device were known or used
by others in this country before his invention. Congress having created the monopoly, may put such limitations upon it as
it pleases.
The case in the Eighth Circuit was evidently decided upon a
wholly incomplete showing on the part of the defendant.
3. One of the principal questions pressed upon our attention
related to the power of the Court of Appeals to order the dismissal of the bill before answer filed, or proofs taken, upon appeal from an order granting a temporary injunction.
This question is not necessarily concluded by Smith v. Valcan
Iron Works, 165 U. S. 518, since in that case the interlocutory
injunction was granted after answer and replication filed, a full
hearing had upon pleadings and proofs, and an interlocutory
decree entered adjudging the validity of the patent, the infringement and injunction, and a reference of the case to a master to
take an account of profits and damages. In that case we held
that, if the appellate court were of opinion that the plaintiff was
not entitled to an injunction because his bill was devoid of equity,
such court might, to save the parties from further litigation,
proceed to consider and decide the case upon its merits, and
direct a final decree dismissing the bill.

MAST, FOOS & CO. v. STOVER M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Does this doctrine apply to a case where a temporary injunction is granted pendente lite upon affidavits and immediately
upon the filing of a bill? We are of opinion that this must be
determined from the circumstances of the particular case. If
the showing made by the plaintiff be incomplete; if the order
for the injunction be reversed, because injunction was not the
proper remedy, or because under the particular circumstances
of the case, it should not have been granted ; or if other relief
be possible, notwithstanding the injunction be refused, then,
clearly, the case should be remanded for a full hearing upon
pleadings and proofs. But if the bill be obviously devoid of
equity upon its face, and such invalidity be incapable of remedy
by amendment; or if the patent manifestly fail to disclose a
patentable novelty in the invention, we know of no reason why,
to save a protracted litigation, the court may not order the bill
to be dismissed. Ordinarily, if the case involve a question of
fact, as of anticipation or infringement, we think the parties are
entitled to put in their evidence in the manner prescribed by the
rules of this court for taking testimony in equity causes. But
if there be nothing in the affidavits tending to throw a doubt
upon the existence or date of the anticipating devices, and giving them their proper effect, they establish the invalidity of the
patent; or if no question be made regarding the identity of the
alleged infringing device, and it appear clear that such device
is not an infringement, and no suggestion be made of further
proofs upon the subject, we think the court should not only
overrule the order for the injunction, but dismiss the bill. Gcirdt
v. Brown, 113 Illinois, 475. This practice was approved by the
Chief Justice in a case where the bill disclosed no ground of
equitable cognizance, in Green v. Mills, 25 U. S. App. 383, and
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in Inoxville v. Africa, 47 U. S. App. 74, where the question involved
was one of law and was fully presented to the court. The
power was properly exercised in this case.
There was no error in the action of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and its decree is
4Aormed,

