OCTOBER 'PERM, f899.
Opinion of the Court.

PETIT v. MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 194. Argued March 16, 1900. -Decided

April 9, 1900.

Section 6513 of the General Statutes of Minnesota for 1894 provides that
"All labor on Sunday is prohibited, excepting the works of necessity or
charity. In works of necessity or charity is included whatever is needful during the day for the good order, health or comfort of the community; Provided, however, That keeping open a barber shop on Sunday
for the purpose of cutting hair and shaving beards, shall not be deemed
a work of necessity or charity." Held that the legislature did not exceed
the limits of its legislative police power in declaring that, as a matter of
law, keeping barber shops open on Sunday is not a work of necessity or
charity, while, as to all other kinds of labor, they have left that question
to be determined as one of fact.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.Joseph V. folineaux for plaintiff in error. .Mr.Albert
E. Clarke filed a brief for same.
_Mr. W. B Douglas for defendant in error. .r.
Somerby was on his brief.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

C. W.

delivered the opinion of the court.

Petit was tried and convicted of keeping open a barber shop
on Sunday for the purpose of cutting hair and shaving beards;
contrary to section 6513 of the General Statutes of Minnesota
for 1894, and the judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of Minnesota. 74 Minn. 376. This writ of error was then allowed.
Section 6513 reads as follows: "All labor on Sunday is prohibited, excepting the works of necessity or charity. In works
of necessity or charity is included whatever is needful during
the day for good order, health or comfort of the community:
Provided hwwever; That keeping open a barber shop on Sunday

PETIT v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of cutting hair and shaving beards, shall not be
deemed a work of necessity or charity."
We have uniformly recognized state laws relating to the observance of Sunday as enacted in the legitimate exercise of the
police power of the State. The subject was fully considered in
JIenininyton v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299, and it is unnecessary to
go over the ground again. It was there said: "The legislature
having, as will not be disputed, power to enact laws to promote
the order and to secure the comfort, happiness and health of
the people, it was within its discretion to fix the day when all
labor, within the limits of the State, works of necessity and
charity excepted, should cease." And these observations of Mr.
Justice Field, then a member of the Supreme Court of California,
in Ex parte Newman, 9 Cal. 502, whose opinion was approved
in Ex parte Andrews, 18 Cal. 678, in reference to a statute of
California relating to that day, were quoted: "Its requirement
is a cessation from labor. In its enactment, the legislature has
given the sanction of law to a rule of conduct, which the entire
civilized world recognizes as essential to the physical and moral
well-being of society. Upon no subject is there such a concurrence of opinion, among philosophers, moralists and statesmen
of all nations, as on the necessity of periodical cessation from
labor. One day in seven is the rule, founded in experience, and
sustained by science. . . . The prohibition of secular business on Sunday is advocated on the ground that by it the general welfarc is advanced, labor protected, and the moral and
physical well-being of society promoted." Well-nigh innumerable decisions of the state courts have sustained the validity of
such laws.
But it is contended that by reason of the proviso this act must
be held unconstitutional, because thereby restricted in its operation on the particular class of craftsmen to which Petit belonged
as contradistinguished from other classes of labor. The proviso was added in 1887 to section 225 of the Penal Code of
Minnesota of 1885, (Laws, Minn. 1887, c. 54.)
By the original statute all labor was prohibited, excepting
the works of necessity or charity, which included whatever was
needful during the day for the good order, health or comfort

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of the oommunity. As the Supreme Court said, if keeping a
barber's shop open on Sunday for the purposes of shaving and
hair cutting was not a work of necessity or charity, within the
meaning of the statute as it originally read, the amendment did
not change the law. And it would be going very far to hold
that because out of abundant caution the legislature may have
sought to obviate any misconstruction as to what should be
considered needful, during that day, for the comfort of the community, as respected work generally so desirable as tonsorial
labor, by declaring the meaning of the statute as it stood, therefore the law was transferred to the category of class legislation.
The legislature had the right to define its own language, and
the statute thus interpreted could not reasonably be held to have
made any discrimination.
The question is not whether the bare fact of shaving some
particular individual under exceptional circumstances might not
be upheld, but whether the public exercise of the occupation of
shaving and hair cutting could be justified as a work of necessity
or charity.
In Phdili)s v. Innes, 4 Clark & Finnelly, 234, the house of
Lords held that shaving on Sunday was not a work of necessity
or mercy or charity. The act, 29 Car. II, c. 7, prohibited work
on the LordTs day, "works of necessity and charity only excepted ;" and 1)wv
the Scotch statute of 1579, c. 70, it was enacted,
among other things, that "no handy-labouring or working be
used on the Snulay ;" and the same prohibition was enacted by
the statute of 1(90, c. 7, which added to the private and public
exercise of worship, "the duties of necessity or mercy." The
case came to the Ilouse of Lords from the Court of Sessions, and
Lord Chancellor Cottenham said: " This work is not a work of
necessity, nor is it a work of mercy, it is one of mere convenience; and if your Lordships were to act upon this case as a
precedent for other cases, founded upon no more than convenience, your Lordships would, I apprehend, be laying down a
rule, by which the law of Scotland prohibiting persons from
carrying on their ordinary business on Sundays, would be repealed, or rendered useless."
Lord Wynford concurred, saying: "It was not necessary that

PETIT v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

people should be shaved on Sunday in a public shop; it was not
an act of mercy, it was clearly an act of handicraft."
Lord Brougham was of the same opinion, and observed that
"he whose object was gain, did not come within the exception."
In Commonwealth v. Waldman, 140 Penn. St. 89, 98, the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania said: "We are now asked to
say that shaving is a work of ' necessity,' and therefore within
the exceptions of the act of 1794. It is, perhaps, as much a
necessity as washing the face, taking a bath, or performing any
other act of personal cleanliness. A man may shave himself,
or have his servant or valet shave him, on the Lord's day, without a violatioll of the act of 1794. But the keeping open of his
place of business on that day by a barber, and the following his
worldly employment of shaving his customers, is quite another
matter; and, while we concede that it may be a great convenience to many persons, we are not prepared to say, as a question of law, that it is a work of necessity within the meaning
of the act of 1794."
In State v. Frederick, 45 Arkansas, 347, the court ruled that:
"The courts will take judicial notice that the shaving of his
customers by a barber is a worldly labor, or work done by him
in the course of his ordinary calling, and not within the exceptions of the statute."
On the other hand, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts held in Stone v. Graves, 145' Mass. 353, that it could not be
ruled, as matter of law, that the work of shaving aft aged and
infirm person in his own house on the Lord's day was not a
work of necessity.
I And in Ungerioht v. State, 119 Indiana, 379, it was held by
the Supreme Court of Indiana that it must be left to the jury,
as a question of fact, to determine, under proper instructions
from the court, what particular labor, under the circumstances,
would constitute a work of necessity.
We think that the keeping open by barbers of their shops on
Sunday for the general pursuit of their ordinary calling was, as
matter of law, not within the exceptions of the statute as it
read before the amendment.
But even if the question whether keeping open a barber's shop

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

on Sunday for cutting hair and shaving beards, under some
circumstances, was a work of necessity or charity was a question of fact under the original act, which was foreclosed as such
by the amendment, the result is the same.
Assuming that the proviso did have this effect, the Supreme
Court was of opinion that the classification was not purely arbitrary. The court pointed out that the law did not forbid a man
shaving himself or getting some one else to shave him, but the
keeping open a barber's shop for that purpose on Sunday; that
the object mainly was to protect the employees by insuring
them a day of rest; and said: "Courts will take judicial notice
of the fact that, in view of the custom to keep barbers' shops
open in the evening as well as in the day, the employ~s in them
work more, and during later hours, than those engaged in most
other occupations, and that this is especially true on Saturday
afternoons and evenings; also that, owing to the habit of so
many men to postpone getting shaved until Sunday, if such
shops were to be permitted to be kept open on Sunday, the
employ~s would ordinarily be deprived of rest during half of
that day.
"In view of all these facts, we cannot say that the legislature
has exceeded the limifs of its legislative police power in declaring that, as a matter of law, keeping barbers' shops open on Sunday is not a work of necessity or charity, while as to all other
kinds of labor they have left that question to be determined as
one of fact."
We recognize the force of the distinctions suggested and perceive no adequate ground for interfering with the wide discretion confessedly necessarily exercised by the States in these
matters, by holding. .hat the classification was so palpably arbitrary as to bring the law into conflict with the Federal Constitution. Orient Insurance Company v. Daggs, 172 . S. 557.
Judgment ajffirmed.

