BRISTOL v. WASHINGTON COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

BRISTOL v. WASHINGTON COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 109. Argued January 22, 1900.-

Decided April 9, 1900.

The personal property of a citizen of and resident in one State, invested
in bonds and mortgages in another State, is subject to taxation in the
latter State; and the amount of the tax is a claim against the property
of the person taxed which is a debt that may, in case of death of the
person taxed, be proved against his estate in the State where the mortgages and loans are contracted subject to the statutes of limitations of
the State.

THIS is an appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court for
the District of Minnesota, allowing a claim in favor of Washington County, Minnesota, against the estate of Sophia M.
Bristol, deceased.
Sophia M. Bristol died testate, naming James Bristol as her
executor, and her will was duly admitted to probate in Wyoming County, State of New York, where said James and
Sophia M. resided. Thereafter Mr. Bristol applied to the
Probate Court of the County of Ramsay, State of Minnesota,
for the admission of the will to probate there and the issue of
letters testamentary to him. This was done, and subsequently
the County of Washington exhibited its claim against said
estate, whereupon Bristol filed his petition in the Probate
Court for the removal of the action instituted by the filing of
the claim into the Circuit Court of the United States, and it
was removed accordingly. A repleader was awarded by stipulation, and a formal complaint and answer filed.

The matter

was heard by the Circuit Court, a jury being waived according
to law, and the court made the following findings:
"I. That Cyrus Jefferson was the father of said Sophia M.
Bristol, deceased, and died in November, 1883. For fourteen
years just prior to his death he was a citizen and resident of
the State of New York, and during said time loaned and in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

vested large sums of money to various persons residing in
Minnesota, upon their notes, payable to his order at said
Stillwater, secured by mortgages on real estate in said Washington and adjoining counties in the State of Minnesota; all
said loans and investments were made and the notes and mortgages taken by and through William M. McCluer, the agent
of said Cyrus Jefferson, who resided at the city of Stillwater,
in said Washington County, during all the time hereinafter
mentioned, and who, with full authority from said Cyrus Jefferson, made all such loans and took and retained all notes and
securities and collected and reloaned both the principal and interest of said loans at said city of Stillwater, in Washington
County, Minnesota, and kept the same permanently invested
in that way, as nearly as practicable, save as to such moneys
as said Jefferson drew from time to time to pay his debts and
living expenses.
"II. Prior to May 1, 1883, said William M. McCluer, at said
Stillwater, by the direction of said Jefferson, but otherwise
with the same power and under the same authority and in
the same manner, loaned of said ,moneys of said Cyrus Jefferson to persons in Washington County sums aggregating
eighteen thousand dollars ($18,000), taking notes and mortgages therefor in the name of and payable to said Sophia M.
Bristol at said Stillwater, and retained the same as her agent,
and bandied and collected and reinvested the same-in the same
manner as he had those of Cyrus Jefferson.
"Ill. After the death of said Cyrus Jefferson and on December 18, 1883, all the other notes and mortgages held by
said McCluer as agent for said Cyrus Jefferson were transferred, assigned, and passed to said Sophia M. Bristol as her
share of the estate of her said father. She thereupon employed said William M. McCluer and Charles M. McCluer,
both of whom then at all times herein mentioned resided at
said Stillwater, as her agents at said city of Stilhwater in and
about said loaning business. She gave to them all the authoritv before that time exercised by said William M. McCluer for
her father, Cyrus Jefferson, as aforesaid, and, also gave to them
a written power of attorney empowering them or either of them

BRISTOL v. WASHINGTON COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

to satisfy and discharge or to sell and assign any and all mortgages then or thereafter in her name in the States of Minnesota
or Wisconsin all of said notes and mortgages of said Sophia
M. Bristol, including those received by her as her share of her
father's estate, as well as those taken in her name by said William M. McCluer prior to the death of her father, as aforesaid,
were still left by her in the hands of her agents in Stillwater,
Minnesota, and said agents continued as before to make collections of both principal and interest due on said notes and
mortgages, to satisfy and discharge mortgages, and to make
new loans and investments upon like securities with the
moneys so collected by them for said Sophia M. Bristol, and
kept all of her moneys received or collected by them prior to
transmittal or reinvestment of the same, and while in their
hands, deposited in bank in said Stillwater as their money,
and having all notes and mortgages received by them for
such loans made payable at their own office in said city of
Stillwater, said mortgages being upon lands in Washington
and adjoining counties in Minnesota.
"IV. In March, 1SS5, all of such notes then in the hands
of said agents were delivered to said Sophia M. Bristol, and
thereafter all new notes as taken by said agents in said business were sent to Sophia M. Bristol and kept by her at her
home in New York, but were payable as before at the office
of said agents in Stillwater, Minnesota; all mortgages securing such notes were retained by said agents, and said notes
were returned to said agents at Stillvater by said Sophia M.
Bristol from time to time whenever required by them for the
purpose of renewal, payment, collection, or foreclosure of securities ; that the said Williain Al. McCluer and Charles M. McCluer
continued as agents for said Sophia M. Br'istol, collecting money
becoming due upon said notes and making loans in her name,
sometimes under the direction of James Bristol, her husband,
but generally upon their own judgment; that they remitted
money to Sophia M. Bristol when she called for the same, and
what was not received by her was invested in new loans, as
aforesaid.
"That said Sophia M. Bristol did receive from the proceeds
.

OCTOBER TERM 1899.
Statement of the Case.

of said collections at various times large sums of money through
said agents, and all moneys collected were always subject to be
sent to her or paid out in any way she should order.
"V. In the month of August, 1890, said William M. McCluer
died, and thereafter said Charles X. McCluer continued to act
as sole agent for said Sophia :M. Bristol at said city of Stillwater,
Minnesota, with the same power as before exercised by him and
said William M. McCluer, except that in November, 1890,
Sophia M. Bristol revoked said power of attorney which authorized said agent to satisfy mortgages of record, and thereafter
executed satisfactions of mortgages herself.
"VI. Said loaning business was so carried on by said Sophia M.
Bristol by and through her said agents at the city of Stillwater,
Minnesota, in the manner aforesaid until her death, in the month
of August, 1894.
"VII. Said Sophia MV[.Bristol had no taxable. property in
said Washington County during any of the years hereinbefore
or hereinafter mentioned other than the loans and indebtedness
mentioned, which were secured by mortgages upon lands in
Minnesota, and which were under the charge and management
of her said agents, who, during all said years and during all the
time within which the taxes hereinafter mentioned were assessed
and levied, resided and had their office and transacted said loaning business at the said city of Stillwater, in said county and
State.
"VIII. That the moneys originally sent by said Jefferson to
said William M. McCluer and invested and reinvested by said
McCluer, and afterwards by said Sophia M. Bristol kept and
retained in the hands of said William M. McCluer and Charles M.
McCluer as her agents, were so sent, retained and kept in the
hands of said agents in the city of Stillwater, Washington
County, Minnesota, in and during each of the years when the
taxes hereinafter mentioned were assessed and levied against
said Sophia M. Bristol, as hereinafter specifically set forth, as
and for a permanent investment and business under the full
control of said agents, and said property and said loans acquired
and had a situs in said city of Stillwater, Washington County,
Minnesota, for the purpose of taxation.

BRISTOL v. WASHINGTON COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

"IX. That the claimant herein, Washington County, is and
for more than thirty years last past has been a municipal corporation, to wit, an organized county created and existing under
and pursuant to the laws of the State of Minnesota.
"X. That in and during each of the years from 1883 to 1894,
inclusive, certain personal property taxes were duly assessed and
levied against said Sophia M. Bristol by the proper taxing officers of said city of Stillwater and said Washington County on
the personal property of said Sophia M. Bristol, deceased, consisting of the ' credits other than that of bank, banker, broker
or stock jobber,' and that said assessments were each in fact
based upon credits due said Sophia M. Bristol on promissory
notes of various persons residing in Washington County and
other counties in Minnesota, payable to her order, secured by
mortgages on real estate situate in Washington County and
other counties in the State of Minnesota.
"Said notes were all made payable at the office of William M.
McCluer or Charles M. MeCluer, at the city of Stillwater. The
assessed valuation of said personal property upon which said taxes
were so assessed and levied for each of said years, the rate of
the tax assessed upon property in the said city of Stillwater, in
said county, that being the district where said property was assessed, in the number of mills levied on each dollar of property
at the assessed valuation for each of said years, and the amount
of said taxes so assessed and levied against said Sophia M. Bristol,
deceased, for each of said years, are as set forth in the following
schedule thereof, to wit: [Here followed schedule as described.
The valuations ran from $17,900 in 1883 to $184,900 in 1884;
$196,672 in 1888; $181,292 in 1889, and $179,900 in 1890, 1, 2,
3 and 4.]
"That the said Sophia M. Bristol failed and neglected to pay
said taxes on the first day of March in each of the years following that in which said taxes were respectively levied, as hereinbefore set forth, or at any time thereafter, and that by reason
of such failure said Sophia M. Bristol became and was and is
liable to pay a penalty amounting to five per cent. on the amount
of said taxes for the years 1883 to 1894, and ten per cent. on the
amount of said taxes for each year thereafter, and that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

amount of said penalty for each of said years is as follows that is to say: [Here the penalties. claimed for each year were
set forth.]
"XI. Said Sophia M. Bristol never resided in Washington
County nor in the State of Minnesota at any time, nor was she
within the State of Minnesota from March 1, 1883, until her
death, in August, 1894, except temporarily, and that the whole
period of time she spent in the State of Minnesota from March 1,
1883, until her death did not exceed one year.
."XII. On or about the nineteenth day of October, 1894, the
will of said Sophia M. Bristol was duly admitted to probate in
and by the probate court of Ramsey County, in the State of
Minnesota, and such proceedings were had in the matter of said
estate that James Bristol, the executor named in said will, was
duly appointed by said court as the executor of said last will and
testament and of said estate, and the said James Bristol thereupon duly qualified as such executor and entered upon the discharge of his duties as such, and thereafter and on the eighteenth
day of April, 1895, and within the time required by the order duly
made by said probate court for filing claims against the estate

of said Sophia M. Bristol, deceased, said claimant, Washington
County, duly made and filed its verified claim in due form for
all of the said taxes and the said penalties, together with interest
upon the amount of said taxes and penalties for each year from
and after the first day of March, in the year after the year in
which said taxes were levied, as aforesaid.
"XIII. That the said Sophia M. Bristol was and for more
than fifteen years next prior to her death has been a resident
and citizen of the State of New York, and said James Bristol,
the executor above named, is now and for more than fifteen
years last past always has been a rdsident and citizen of the
State of New York.
"XIV. The court further finds that all of the taxes hereinbefore mentioned were fairly and equally assessed on a fair
valuation of the personal property of said Sophia M. Bristol,
deceased, for each of the years hereinbefore mentioned, and
that no part of said taxes has ever been paid."
As conclusions of law the court found that Washington County

BRISTOL v. WASHINGTON COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

was entitled to judgment for the amount of the taxes and penalties, together with costs and disbursements, and that "said claim
of said amount is a just and valid claim against the estate of
Sophia M. Bristol, deceased," and entered judgment as follows:
"It is therefore considered, ordered and' adjudged - That the
County of Washington, the claimant in this case, do have and
recover of and from the estate of Sophia M. Bristol, deceased,
the sum of sixty-four thousand six hundred eighty-four ,dollars
and seventy-eight cents ($64,684.78), so found to be due by the
court, and that said sum of sixty-four thousand six hundred
eighty-four dollars and seventy-eight cents ($64,684.78) is a just
and valid claim against the estate of Sophia M. Bristol, deceased,
in favor of said Washington County, besides the costs and disbursements herein to be taxed."
Mr. C. IF. Ban
error.

and M'. Emerson Hadley for plaintiff in

Mr. JbLses E. Clapp and Mr. George DT Sullivmc? for defendant in error. _M. N. If. Clapy and -Mr. I. L. M'anwariqig
were on their brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating

the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The judgment amounted in effect to the allowance of the
claim payable in due course of administration out of assets of
the estate within the jurisdiction of the probate court. This.
was so notwithstanding the domicil of the testatrix and of her
executor was in the State of New York; that.that was the place
of principal administration; and that the person charged therewith was the same. Aspden v. N'ixon, 4 how. 467; Johnson
v. Powers, 139 U. S. 156, 159.
Our jurisdiction by direct appeal is invoked on the ground
that the application of the Constitution of the United States
was involved, and that a law of the State was "claimed to be in
contravention of the Constitution of the United States."
The objections of the executor to the allowance of the claim

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and his answer put forward the deprivation of property without due process of law; the abridgment of privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States; and the denial of
the equal protection of the laws, as the violations of constitutional safeguards relied on. Of these the first only is pressed
upon our attention and needs to be considered, and that raises
the question whether the laws of the State of Minnesota, as expounded by the Supreme Court of that State, in authorizing
this judgment, amounted to the taking of property without due
process of law.
In the course of the administration of the estate of Cyrus
Jefferson, deceased, in the probate court of the County of Washington, Minnesota, a claim was presented in March, 1884, against
the estate for unpaid taxes for the years 1882 and 1883, on
credits secured by mortgages, amounting to about $122,000,
and the claim was allowed. The executors appealed to the district court where the order of the probate court was affirmed.
The case was then carried by the executors to the Supreme
Court of Minnesota, which, on May 26, 1886, affirmed the judgment. In re J6fferson, 35 Minnesota, 215. It was objected
"that taxes are not debts which can be proved against the estate of deceased persdns;" but the court overruled the objection, saying: "It is not material whether a personal tax is a
debt, in the sense that an action against the person may be
maintained to recover it. It is at least a claim against the property which survives the death of the person against whom it is
levied, and remains a claim against his estate. The statute regards it as a debt to be paid out of the estate. In prescribing
the order of preference in which debts shall be paid, where the
estate is not sufficient to pay all, it provides (Gen. St., 1878,
c. 53, § 38) that, after paying the necLssary expenses of the funeral, last sickness and administration, the executor or administrator shall ' pay the debts against the estate in the following
order. .

.

. Second, public rates and taxes.'

This, we think, is

conclusive that, for the purpose of proof and payment out of
the estate, a personal tax is a debt." The court further held
that a tax list or tax duplicate, duly certified by the county
auditor, as required by statute, was primafacieevidence of the

BRISTOL v. WASHINGTON COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

due levy of the taxes in it. The main question in the case was
whether credits due to a resident of another State, from residents within Minnesota, for moneys loaned and invested by,
and which credits were managed and controlled by, an agent
of the creditor, resident within Minnesota, could be taxed in
Minnesota under existing statutes, and the court held that they
could. The court, after referring to the provisions of the statute that all personal property in the State was subject to taxation, and that all moneys and credits should be listed by the
owner or his agent, where one or the other resided, said: "It
is to be taken, therefore, as the intent of the statute, that credits, to whomsoever owing, are taxable here if they can be regarded as personal property in this State; that is, situated in
this State. To justify the imposition of tax by any State, it
must have jurisdiction over the person taxed, or over the property taxed. As Jefferson was not a resident of this State, there
was no jurisdiction over him. But if the property on account
of which these taxes were unpaid was within this State, the
State had jurisdiction to impose them as it might impose a tax
upon tangible personal property permanently situated here,
and to enforce the taxes against the property. The authorities
which we cite in support of the proposition that the credits
taxed had a situs here, fully sustain this.
"For many purposes the domicil of the owner is deemed the
situs of his personal property. This, however, is only a fiction,
from motives of convenience, and is not of universal application,
but yields to the actual situs of the property when justice requires that it should. It is not allowed to be controlling in matters of taxation. Thus, corporeal personal property is conceded
to be taxable at the place where it is actually situated. A credit,
which cannot be regarded as situated in a place merely because
the debtor resides there, must usually be considered as having
its situs where it isowned,-at the domicil of the creditor. The
creditor, however, may give it a business situs elsewhere; as
where he places it in the hands of an agent for collection or renewal, with a view to reloaning the money and keeping it invested as a permanent business." After citing Catlin v. Hall,
21 Vermont, 152; People v. Smith, 88 N. Y. 576; Wilcox v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Ellis, 14 Kansas, 588; Board of Sa )ervisors v. Da-venyot, 40
Illinois, 197, and many other cases, the opinion continued thus:
"The obligation to pay taxes on property for the support of
,the government arises from the fact that it is under the protection of the government. Now, here was property within this
State, not for a mere temporary purpose, but as permanently as
though the owner resided here. It was employed here as a
business by one who exercised over it the same control and management as over his own property, except that he did it in the
name of an absent principal. It was exclusively under the protection of the laws of this State. It had to rely on those laws
for the force and validity of the contracts on the loans, and the
preservation and enforcement of the securities. The laws of
New York never operated on it. If credits can ever have an
actual situs other than the doinicil of the owner, can ever be
regarded as property within any other State, and as under obligation to contribute to its support in consideration of being
under its protection, it must be so in this case."
It was thus ruled that the tax list of personal property was
prigmafacie evidence of the due levy of the taxes ; that such
taxes could be proven against decedents' estates; and that credits secured by mortgages, the result of the business of investing
and reinvesting moneys in the State, were subject to taxation as
having their situs there.
Admonished as to the law of the State in these particulars,
Mrs. Bristol, Mr. Jefferson's daughter, continued the business of
investing and reinvesting in the same way and through the same
agency until her own death in August, 1894. The state statute
required every person being a resident of the State to list his
personal property, including moneys, credits, etc., for taxation
and "moneys and other personal property invested, loaned or
otherwise controlled by him as the agent or attorney or on account of any other person or persons ;" and in cases of failure
to obtain a statement of personal property from any cause, it
was made the duty of the assessor to ascertain its amount and
value and assess the same at such amount as he believed to be
the true value- thereof. Stat. 1891, c. 11, §§1515, 1546; Stat.
1878, c. 11 §§ 7, 38. No question arises here in respect of the

BRISTOL v. WASHINGTON COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

regular listing of these investments for taxation from 1883 until
and including 1894, nor in respect of the valuation thereof.
Mrs. Bristol had invested s6me $t8,000 of her own money,
belonging to her prior to her father's death, in the same way
and by the same agency, and invested and reinvested in the same
manner that money and moneys derived from notes and mortgages held by the agent for Mr. Jefferson, which passed to her
on his death. And these investments were taxable and were
taxed year by year during all this period according to the stat*utes of the State and the decision of the Supreme Court from
which we have quoted.
It is insisted, however, that this is not so, because in 1885,
which was after the presentation of the claim against the father's
estate in the probate court, though before the decision by the
Supreme Court, the notes then in the hands of the agents were
delivered to Mrs. Bristol, and thereafter all new notes taken in
the business were sent to her and kept by her in her home in
New York. But these notes were payable as before at the office
of the agents in Minnesota; the mortgages securing the notes
were retained by the agents, and the notes were returned to the
agents from time to time, whenever required by them, for the
purpose of renewal, collection or foreclosure of securities; the
agents continued to collect the money due ou the notes, and to
make loans in the name of Mrs. Bristol, sometimes under her
husband's direction, but generally on their own judgment ; and
they remitted money to Mrs. Bristol whenever she called for the
same, while what was not received by her was invested in new
loans. It also appeared that Mrs. Bristol had given the agents
a power of attorney empowering them to satisfy or discharge,
or to sell and assign, any and all mortgages in her name in the
States of Minnesota and Wisconsin, but that she revoked this
instrument after the (loath of one of the agents, and about November, 1890, thereafter executing satisfactions of mortgages
herself.
Nevertheless the business of loaning money through the agency
in Minnesota was continued during all these years just as it had
been carried on before, and we agree with the Circuit Court
that the fact that the notes were sent to Mrs, Bristol in New

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

York, and the fact of the revocation of the power of attorney,
did not exempt these investments from taxation under the statutes as expounded in the decision to which we have referred.
And we are unable to perceive that any rights secured by the
Federal Constitution were infringed by the statutes as thus interpreted so far as the situs of these loans and mortgages was
concerned.
In New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309, certain taxes were
levied on money on deposit, and also on money loaned on inter-

est, credits and bills receivable, and it was held by this court
that the statutes of Louisiana, as interpreted by the courts of
that State, in authorizing such assessment, did not violate the
Constitution of the United States. There the money, notes and
evidences of credits were in fact in Louisiana, though their
owners resided elsewhere. Still under the circumstances of the
case before us, we think, as we have said, that the mere sending
of the notes to New York and the revocation of the power of
attorney did not take these investments out of the rule.
Persons are not permitted to avail themselves for their own
benefit of the laws of a State in the conduct of business within
its limits, and then to escape their due contribution to the public
needs through action of this sort, whether taken for convenience
or by design.
In New Orleansv. Stempel it was remarked: "With reference
to the decisions of this court it may be said that there has never
been any denial of the power of a State to tax securities situated
as these are, while there have been frequent recognitions of its
power to separate for purposes of taxation the situs of personal
property from the domicil of the owner. . .' . In Tappan
v. Merchants' NationalBank, 19 Wall. 490, the ruling was that

although shares of stock in national banks were in a certain
sense intangible and incorporeal personal property, the law
might separate them from the persons of their owners for purposes of taxation, and give them a situs of their own. See also
Pullman's Car Company v. Plennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, 22,

where the question of the separation of personal property from
the person of the owner for purposes of taxation was discussed
at length.

As also the case of Savings Society v. Jultnomah

BRISTOL v. WASHINGTON COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

County, 169 U. S. 421, 427, in which a statute of Oregon taxing
the interest of a mortgagee in real estate was adjudged valid,
although the owner of the mortgage was a non-resident." In
the latter case the subject was much considered, and Mr. Justice
Gray, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "The authority
of every State to tax all property, real and personal, within its
jurisdiction, is unquestionable. JiIcCalloch v. M1aryland, 4
Wheat. 316, 429. Personal property, as this court has declared
again and again, may be taxed, either at the domicil of its owner,
or at the place where the property is situated, even if-the owner
is neither a citizen nor a resident of the State which imposes the
tax. Tappan' v. Mlerclants' Bank, 19 Wall. 490, 499; State
Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 607; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.
517, 524; Ifulnan's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18,
22, 27."
Accepting the views of the state court in relation to the state
statutes and proceedings thereunder, and concluding that the
Constitution of the United States did not operate to prohibit the
exercise of the power to tax these investments, it follows that
the Circuit Court did not err in sustaining the validity of the
taxation. But it is further contended that, as Mrs. Bristol was
a non-resident, the power to tax could be exercised only as
against the very property taxed; that these assessments did not
constitute judgments 'in personam; and that judgment against
her estate could not, therefore, be rendered upon them. The
state statute provided that claims for taxes should be preferred
to ordinary debts, (Stat. 1894, c. 45, § 4529,) and, as has been
seen, the Supreme Court has decided that, "for the purpose of
proof and payment out of the estate, a personal tax is a debt."
The court, for that purpose, so treated taxes, but not as being
debts in the usual acceptation of the term. The obligation to
contribute to the support of government in return for the protection and advantages afforded by government is not dependent
on contract, but on the exercise of the public will as demanded
by the public welfare.
By the laws of Minnesota, moneys, credits and other personal
property were required to be listed, either by the owner or his
agent; provisions were made for notice; for action by the asVOL. CLXXVII-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

sessor in case of failure to list; for a board of review, meeting
at a specified time; for the delivery of lists (in tax books) to the
county treasurers, who were duly authorized.to receive and collect the taxes named therein; that personal property taxes unpaid on the 1st of March next after they became due should be
deemed delinquent; for the filing of delinquent lists in the appropriate office; for issue of warrant; for the distraint of goods
and chattels; for personal judgment on service of citation; and
for proceeding against non-residents by attachment and publication of notice. (Gen. Stat. 1894, c. 11; Gen. Stat. 1878, c. 11.)
By section 1623, Gen. Stat. 1894, (Gen. Stat. 1878, -c. 11,
§ 105,) it was provided that: "The taxes assessed upon personal
property shall be a lien upon the personal property of the person assessed from and after the time the tax books are received
by the county treasurer."
Thus it appears that on the return of the delinquent tax list,
the amount of the tax could be collected by distraint of goods
and chattels, or by proceedings by attachment and publication,
judgment in which would operate on the property taken in attachment, by garnishment or otherwise. There was no want of
due process in all this, for while the non-resident came under
the obligation to pay, appropriate notice and opportunity to
contest were afforded. And if a personal action were brought
and service obtained, the defendant would not be cut off from
any competent defence, as the delinquent list would not necessarily be held conclusive. In this case no defence on the merits
appears to have been relied on except the want of situs.
oines, 173 U. S. 193, cited by plaintiff in
Dewey v. Des
error, is not to the contrary. What was ruled there was that a
citizen of one State cannot be cast in a personal judgment in
another State on an assessment levied there on real estate for a
local improvement, without service on him, or voluntary appearance, or some action on his part amounting to consent to
the jurisdiction.
This brings us to consider the plea of the statute of limitations interposed as to the taxes for the years 1883 to 1888 inclusive.
Mrs. Bristol died in August, 1894; the will was admitted to

BRISTOL v. WASHINGTON COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

probate by the probate court of Ramsay County, October 19,
1894 ; Washington County filed its claim for taxes in that court
April 18, 1895 ; the statute of limitations provide-d that actions

"upon a liability created by statute" should be barred by the
lapse of six years. Stat. 1894, c. 66, § 5136. This statute applied to actions brought in the name of or for the benefit of the
State. § 5142. The right to proceed to enforce these taxes
commenced the first of April of the year following that for
which they were levied. If this bad been a personal action
brought against Mrs. Bristol in her lifetime, the plea of the statute was open to be defeated by the fact of her non-residence,
(§ 514.5,) but*treating the filing of the delinquent lists as proceedings in rem, it is contended that the statute applied.
In County of Redwood v. lVinona & St. Peter Land Co., 40
Minnesota, 512, the statute of limitations of six years was held
to apply to proceedings to enforce the collection of taxes against
real estate, and to the same effect are Mower county v. Crane,
51 Minnesota, 201; Pine County v. Lambert, 57 Minnesota, 203;
State v. Norton, '59 Minnesota, 42-. In the first cited case it
appeared that certain lands having been taxed, were in 1883
assessed and a tax levied for each year for fifteen years prior to
that time. On an application for judgment against the land it
was objected that the statute of limitations had run as to all
taxes where the application for judgment could have been made
six years or more prior to the time it was made, if the land had
been taxed at the time it should have been taxed under the statute, and the court sustained the objection. It was held that by
statute in Minnesota, the statute of limitations ran against the
State the same as against an individual; that a tax was a liability created by statute; that although statutes of limitation may
in terms be applicable only to actions, they are to be construed
liberally and applied to all proceedings that are analogous in
their nature to actions "so as to make the right sought to be
enforced, and not a form of procedure, the test as to whether

or not the statute applies.

Upon this principle they are held to

apply to all claims which may be the subject of actions, however
presented; also that they furnish a rule for cases analogous in
their subject matter, but for which a remedy unknown to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

common law has been provided. They-have also been applied
by analogy to proceedings in admiralty, to claims in bankruptcy,
or in probate court, although not within the strict letter of the
statute.

.

.

.

A tax being a liability created by statute, and

the filing of the delinquent list being, as the statute declares,
and as we have held, the institution of an action against the
land for the recovery of the tax appearing against it in the list;
and, inasmuch as the nature of the right sought to be enforced,
and not the mode of procedure, is the test,- we are unable to
see why it should make any difference whether the action is inb
rem or inpersonam,- against the property instead of against
its owner. We have therefore come to the conclusion that these
proceedings are, within the meaning of the statute, 'an action
upon a liability created by statute,' and are barred as to all taxes
for the enforcement of which such proceedings might have been
instituted more than six years before the commencement of the
present proceedings, had such taxes been assessed in the proper
year."
The estate of Mrs. Bristol is liable to respond to this claim
because these taxes were lawfully levied in respect of her property situated in Minnesota when the levies were made; and
the statute gave a lien for them against all her personal property
within the jurisdiction. Collection could have been enforced by
distraint, or by attachment, and in either case could only have
been made out of the property sequestered. In the pending
proceeding then which seeks to subject assets of the estate within
the jurisdiction to payment of the claim it seems to us the ruling of the Supreme Court is applicable. In other words, the
filing of the delinquent lists had reference to property, and a
personal judgment could not have been taken thereon without
service of citation.
Hence in a subsequent proceeding to enforce collection from
property of the decedent, the rule which was applied to proceedings to obtain judgment against real estate would appear to
be applicable in principle. If the county of Redwood had lost
its right to enforce the assessments, (supposing they had been
made when they should have been,) by lapse of time, the county

UNION REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT CO. v. LYNCH. 149
Statement of the Case.

of Washington may well be held subject to a similar deprivation
in respect of the allowance of a portion of its claim.
Reversed, and the cause remanded with direction to exclude
the taxes for the years 1883 to 1S88, inclusive, amd to render judginent for the taxes and penalties after the latter
year, with interest on the aggregate suin thereoffrom June
29, 1898, the date of the judgment below.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE concurred on the ground of stare decisis.

UNION REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT COMPANY v.
LYNCII.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 207. Argued March 21, 1900.-Decided April 9, 1900.
Cars of the Union Refrigerator Transit Company, a corporation of Kentucky, engaged in furnishing to shippers refrigerator cars for the transportation of perishable freight, and which were employed in the State of
Utah for that purpose, were subject to taxation by that State.

THE Union Refrigerator Transit Company filed its bill in the
District Court in and for Salt Lake County, State of Utah,
against Stephen H. Lynch, treasurer of Salt Lake County and
collector of taxes therein, alleging: "That it is and was during
all the times hereinafter mentioned a corporation duly organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State
of Kentucky; that its principal office and place of business is
in the city of Louisville, in said State, and was and is engaged
exclusively in the business of furnishing to shippers refrigerator
cars for the transportation of perishable freight over the various lines of railroads throughout the United States and of soliciting shipments for such cars and giving to the said cars needful
attention at various points in transit ; that the said cars are and
were during the said times the sole property of the plaintiff,
and are not and were not during any of the said time allotted,

