FARMERS' LOAN &c., CO. v. LAKE ST. RD. CO.

51

Statement of the Case.

poration, joint stock company or association, or acting corporation or association," were not intended to include partnerships;
and that the mode of service in actions against partnerships was
regulated by the latter section, which requires service in such
actions to be made upon one of the firm. As no such service
had been made in the case before us, the Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction to entertain the action, or to render judgment against
the defendants.
Writ of mandamus denied.

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY v. LAKE
STREET ELEVATED RAILROAD CO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 108. Argued January 19, 1900. -Decided

March 26, 1000.

A suit in equity is commenced by filing a bill of complaint; and this general rule prevails also by statute in Illinois.
As between the immediate parties in a proceeding in rem jurisdiction attaches when the bill is filed and the process has issued, and when that
process is duly served, in accordance with the rules of practice of the
court.

The possession of the res in case of conflict of jurisdiction vests the court
which has first acquired jurisdiction with power to hear and determine
all controversies relating thereto, and, for the time being, disables other
courts of coerdinate jurisdiction from exercising a like power.
This rule is not restricted, in its application, to cases where property has
been actually seized under judicial process before a second suit is instituted in another court, but it applies as well where suits are brought
to enforce liens against specific property, to marshal assets, administer
trusts, liquidate insolvent estates, and in suits of a similar nature, and
it is applicable to the present case.

Lake Street Elevated Railroad Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Illinois in the month of
August, 1892, with a capital stock of five million dollars, which
was increased in the month of April, 1893, to ten millions of dolTI E

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

lars, consisting of one hundred thousand shares of the par value
of one hundred dollars each.
On April 7, 1893, the company made and delivered a certain mortgage or trust deed to the American Trust and Savings Bank, a corporation of the State of Illinois, and to the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, a corporation of the State
of New York, as trustees, to secure the payment of bonds in
the aggregate amount of six million five hundred thousand
dollars. The said trust companies duly accepted said trust,
and the mortgage was afterwards, on May 6, 1893, recorded
in the recorder's office of Cook County, Illinois. The amount
and number of said bonds was afterwards, in pursuance of
provisions contained in the mortgage, increased to 7574 bonds
of the par value of $1000 each, making the total mortgage
indebtedness $7,574,000. The mortgage contained the usual
provisions authorizing the trustees, in case of default in payment of the interest coupons for a period of six months, to
declare the entire principal debt to have become due and payable, and to proceed by foreclosure or otherwise to enforce the
terms of the mortgage.
On January 30, 1896, at ten o'clock and thirty-five minutes A.M., the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, as a corporation of the State of New York, filed in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois a bill
of complaint against the Lake Street Elevated Railroad Company, the Union Elevated Railroad Company, the Northwestern Elevated Railroatl Company, the West Chicago Street
Railroad Company and the American Trust and Savings
Bank, all corporations organized under the laws of the State
of Illinois.
The bill alleged that default had been made by the Lake
Street Elevated Company in the payment of all interest coupons payable on the 1st day of July, 1895, and on the. 1st day
of January, 1896; that the Lake Street Elevated Railroad
Company had become insolvent, and was unable to pay its
debts and obligations; that a .foreclosure suit was necessary,
and pending the proceeding that it was expedient and necessary to have a receiver appointed. The bill further alleged

FARMERS' LOAN &c., CO. v. LAKE ST. RD. CO.

53

Statement of the Case.

that the Union Elevated Railroad' Company, the West Chicago Street Railroad Company and the Northwestern Elevated Railroad Company claimed to have acquired some
interest, by lease or otherwise, in the mortgaged property,
and that the American Trust and Savings Bank, named as
with
co-trustee in the mortgage, had been requested to join
it as complainant in the bill of foreclosure, but had declined
and refused so to do or to take any action in the premises,
was
and was therefore made a party defendant. A subpoena
commanddefendants,
several
the
to
thereupon issued directed
March
ing them to appear and answer on the first Monday of
next thereafter.
bill
On the same day, January 30, 1896, shortly after the said
Elevated
t
Stre(
Lake
the
had been filed and process had issued,
Railroad Company filed in the Superior Court of Cock County,
State of Illinois, a bill of complaint against the Farmers' Loan
and Trust Company, the American Trust and Savings Bank
and the Northern Trust Company.
The bill, after setting forth the facts attending the issue of
the mortgage, alleged that at the time said mortgage was executed and delivered the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company,
being a corporation under the laws of the State of New York,
had not, and bad not since, complied with the laws of the State
of Illinois, which required a deposit with the auditor of public
accounts for the benefit of the creditors of said company of the
sum of two hundred thousand dollars in stocks of the United
States or municipal bonds of the State of Illinois, or in mortgages on improved and productive real estate of such State,
being first liens thereon, and the real estate being worth at least
twice the amount loaned thereon; that, at the time of the execution and delivery and acceptance of said trust nurder said
mortgage, the Lake Street Company, the complainant, did not
know that the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company had not complied with the laws of the State of Illinois; and that since the
acceptance of said trust the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
had been doing business in the State of Illinois, and had appointed one William Burry as its agent to enforce compliance
by the Lake Street Elevated Company with the trusts reposed

OCTOBER TERM, -1899.
Statement of the Case.

in the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, under said mortgage
or deed of trust, and that said Burry, as such agent, had acted
and still was acting by virtue of the authority claimed to be
vested in the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company under said
mortgage.
This bill further alleged that the Lake Street Elevated Railroad Company had been unable to earn sufficient money in
operating its railroad to pay the interest upon the bonded indebtedness secured by the said mortgage or deed of trust;, that,
notwithstanding such fact, one William Ziegler, of New York
city, conspiring and confederating with various persons, and altogether representing 610 bonds of the total issue of 7574 bonds,
made a demand upon the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
and the American Trust and Savings Bank that they proceed
to foreclose said mortgage, and take possession under and by
virtue of the powers contained in said mortgage and the authority vested in said trustees, or to file a bill to foreclose such
mortgage; that the complainant, the Lake Street Elevated Railroad Company, filed on December 30, 1895, a bill in the Circuit
Court of Cook County, Illinois, against said William Ziegler
and others, seeking to enjoin them, and each of them, and the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company and the American Trust
and Savings Bank, from instituting any proceedings to foreclose
said mortgage, and, for reasons set forth, an injunction immediately and without notice was prayed for.
It appears that such an injunction was issued, but that subsequently said cause was, on petition of Ziegler and other bondholders, removed into the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Illinois.
The bill in the present case proceeded to allege that no other
persons than Ziegler and those associated with him as holders
of the 610 bonds were asking or demanding of the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company any action or proceeding, but notwithstanding it proposed and would file a bill to .foreclose the
said mortgage for failure to pay the interest upon the bonded
indebtedness; that the holders of 6574 bonds, issued under said
mortgage, had requested the trustees to take no action whatsoever under said mortgage or trust deed with reference to the

FARMERS' LOAN &c., CO. v. LAKE ST. RD. CO.

55

Statement of the Case.
failure of said company to provide for or pay the interest due
July 1, 1895, and January 1, 1896; that the American Trust
and Savings Bank, in compliance with said request, declined and
refused on January 28, 1896, to join with the Farmers' Loan
and Trust Company in any proceedings whatsoever to enforce
the, provisions or conditions of said mortgage on account of the
failure of the company to pay said interest.
The bill further alleged that it was the wish of the holders
of over 6500 of said bonds that the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company should be removed from its position as trustee under
said mortgage, first, for failure to comply with the laws of the
State of Illinois, and, second, for assuming to act or take proceedings under said mortgage, contrary to the request of the
holders of a majority of the bonds issued under said mortgage.
Thereupon the bill proceeded to pray that a new trustee should
be appointed by the court to act, under and by virtue of said
mortgage, in place and stead of the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company; that an injunction yendente lite should be issued,
restraining and enjoining said the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company from taking any proceedings or bringing or prosecuting any suit or suits, or acting in any manner whatsoever
under and by virtue of the terms, provisions and conditions of
said mortgage or deed of trust, and that, upon final hearing, said
injunction should be made perpetual; and for other and further
relief. A writ of injunction was forthwith issued and served.
On January 31, 1896, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
filed, in the Superior Court of Cook County, its petition to remove said cause into the Circuit Court of the United States.
The petition alleged that the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company was a corporation organized under the laws of the State
of New York, and a citizen thereof; that the Lake Street Elevated Railroad Company, the American Trust and Savings Bank
and the Northern Trust Company were corporations organized
under the laws of the State of Illinois, and citizens thereof;
that in said cause there were controversies between citizens of
different States, which controversies could be fully determined
as between them, and that said controversies were between the
petitioner on the one part, and the Lake Street Elevated Railroad Company on the other, and were as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

1. A controversy concerning the right of the petitioner to
act as trustee under the mortgage. 2. A controversy concerning the removal of the petitioner as trustee under said mortgage. 3. A controversy concerning the enjoining of the petitioner from taking any proceedings or bringing or prosecuting
any suits, or acting under and by virtue of the terms, provisions
and conditions of the mortgage.
The petition further alleged that if the controversy in the
cause was one and inseparable, then such controversy was wholly
between citizens of different States, and could be fully determined between them, and that said controversy was between
the petitioner. on the one part and the Lake Street Elevated
Railroad Company on the other part, and that said other defendants, the American Trust and Savings Bank and the Northern Trust Company, were not proper or necessary parties in
the cause.
The petition further alleged that on January 30, 1896, it had
exhibited in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois its bill in chancery for a foreclosure
of said mortgage, and in doing so was acting under and by virtue of the terms, provisions and conditions of said mortgage;
that its said bill of complaint was filed prior to the commencement of this suit or of any notice thereof to the petitioner, or
of any -notice to the petitioner of the temporary injunction issued in this cause, and that the suit so commenced by the petitioner is still pending and undetermined; that the bringing of
this suit and the issuing of said injunction tends to obstruct and
impede the administration and jurisdiction of the said Circuit
Court of the United States in the suit so commenced by the petitioner in said Circuit Court of the United States, and interferes with the property thereby brought into said Circuit Court,
and that there is therefore involved in this suit a controversy
arising under and by virtue of the laws of the United States,

which controversy affects the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court
of the United States in said cause so commenced therein by the
petitioner.
The petition made profert of a bond in the penal sum of
five hundred dollars, conditional for the entering in the Cir-

FARMERS' LOAN &c., CO. v. LAKE ST. RD. CO.

57

Statement of the Case.

cuit Court of the United States, on the first day of its next session, a copy of the record in this suit, and for paying all costs
that might be awarded if said Circuit Court of the United States
should hold that this suit was wrongfully or improperly removed
thereto.
The petitioner thereupon prayed the court to proceed no
further in the cause, except to make an order of removal, as required by law, and to accept said surety and bond, and to cause
the record therein to be removed to said Circuit Court of the
United States, according to the statute in such case made and
provided.
The Superior Court of Cook County having denied the removal, thereafter, on February 4, 1896, the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company procured an order from the Circuit Court of
the United States giving leave to file a transcript of the record
of this suit in the United States court, whereupon, on that day,
such transcript of record was filed and the cause was docketed.
Thereafter motions were severally made by the Lake Street
Elevated Railroad Company, the Northern Trust Company and
the American Trust and Savings Bank, in the Circuit Court of
the United States, for an order remanding the cause to the Superior Court of Cook County. These motions were accompanied
by statements denying, among other things, that the suit involved controversies between citizens of different States, and
alleging that the bond filed by the petitioner was insufficient
in that said bond was not signed by the petitioning company,
but by sureties only.
On March 16, 1896, after argument, the Circuit Court of the
United States overruled and denied the motions to remand.
In February, 1896, the American Trust and Savings Bank,
and on April 24, 1896, the Lake Street Elevated Railroad Company, filed, in the Circuit Court of the United States demurrers
to the bill of foreclosure. On April 21, 1896, the Circuit Court,
on motion and after argument, set aside the exparee injunction
that had been entered by the state court, after the bill of foreclosure had been filed in the Federal court ; and thereupon an appeal
was taken from this order, setting aside the injunction, to the
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit, which appeal

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

was, on January 9, 1897, overruled and dismissed. 77 Fed.
Rep. 769.
On March 18, 1896, a motion was made in the state court to
attach for contempt the attorney of the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company in disobeying the ex~parle injunctional order.
Thereupon the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company entered a
special appearance in the state court, and moved to quash the
service in the case; and on the same day, on a motion by the
counsel of the Lake Street Elevated Company, the court entered
an order finding that it had jurisdiction of the parties and the
subject-matter, and ordering that the special appearance and
motion by the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company should be
stricken from the files as having been improperly and improvidently filed. The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company then
applied for leave to enter a general appearance'and for time to
answer. Leave so to do was granted by the court, on condition
that the answer be on or before March 25, 1896. Upon the
coining in of the answer on that day the court appointed May 8,
1896, for a final hearing. The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company had leave to file an amended answer, in which, besides
denying the several charges" made against it in the bill, it was
alleged that the state court did not have jurisdiction ; that the
case had been removed to the Circuit Court of the United States,
and that, by reason of the action of that court in refusing, on
motion by the Lake Street Elevated Railroad Company, to remand, the state court should not proceed with the case.
On May 28, 1896, the state court made its findings in favor
of the Lake Street Elevated Railroad Company, the complainant, and on June 4, 1896, entered a final decree in the case.
By this decree it was decreed that the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company should be and was removed from its position
as trustee, and it was further ordered that "the said defendant,
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, and its attorneys, solicitors, officers, agents and servants, and each and every of
them, be and they hereby are perpetually enjoined and restrained from taking any proceedings, or bringing or prosecuting any suit or suits, to foreclose said mortgage or trust deed
from said complainant to said American Trust and Savings

FARMERS' LOAN &c, CO. v. LAKE ST. RD. CO.

59

Opinion of the Court.

Bank and said Farmers' Loan 'and Trust Company, or acting
in any manner whatsoever under and by virtue of the terms,
provisions and conditions of said mortgage or trust deed."
It was further ordered that the American Trust and Savings
Bank should, by an instrument in writing, appoint a trustee in
place of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, and that the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company should execute .an instrument of transfer to vest in such neNV trustee "all the property,
privileges and rights" of the said Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company under said trust deed.
In October, 1896, an appeal from this decree was taken to
the Appellate Court for the First District of Illinois, and on
February 9, 1897, that court affirmed the decree of the trial
court. 68 Ill. App. 666.
On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State the decree of
the Appellate Court was affirmed on June 7, 1898. 173 Ill. 439.
It was held by the state courts that the case was not properly removed to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
reason that the bond filed with the petition for removal was
not signed by the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, the petitioner, but only by the sureties. Those courts likewise held
that the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company was properly removed as trustee because of its non-compliance with the provision of the state statute, requiring foreign trust companies to
m:ike a deposit of securities with the state auditor.
On July 7, 1898, a writ of error from this court to the Supreme Court of Illinois was allowed.
2r.John J Jierricc and Xr. William Burry for plaintiff
in error. Jiir. I1erbert B. Turner was on their brief.
Me. Clarence A. riJ.ght and Mr.T.A. Xloran for defendant
in error. .11r. Levy Mayer was on their brief.
MR.JUSTICE SnIR.As,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
Whether the state courts erred in refusing to accept the peti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

tion and bond filed by the plaintiff in error, the Farmers' Loan
and Trust Company, for removal of the cause to the Circuit
Court of the United States, and whether the Lake Street Elevated Railroad Company, the American Trust and Savings
Bank and the Northern Trust Company, by appearing in the
Circuit Court, by moving to remand, by demurring to the bill,
after such motion had been overruled, and by appealing to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, were estopped from proceeding in the
state court, are questions which have been argued at length
before us, but which, for reasons presently to be stated, we have
not found it necessary to decide.
Apart from those questions, the principal matters in dispute
are the legal competency of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company to act as trustee under the mortgage, and whether, in
view of the controversy between the two sets of bondholders
in regard to the right and expediency of a foreclosure proceeding, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company can proceed to
enforce the provisions of the mortgage. And these are matters
which are necessarily involved, and can be properly raised and
determined in the Circuit Court of the United States whose
iurisdiction had attached by the filing of the bill of foreclosure
before the commencement of the suit in the state court.
The contention that the jurisdiction of the state court first
attached because, although the suit therein was not commenced
till after the commencement of the suit in the Federal court,
the summons issued by the state court was served before the
service of the writ of subpoena issued by the Federal court, is
not well founded.
A suit in equity is commenced by filing a bill of complaint.
Story's Equity Pleading, sec. 7, fourth edition.
Such is also the rule by statute in Illinois. Rev. Stats. Illinois, 1874, c. 22; Ilodgen v. Guttery, 58 Illinois, 431.
It is true that in applying the doctrine of lis pendens to the
case of a third person who is a bona fide purchaser, notice is
held to begin from the date of service of the subpena and not
from the filing of the bill. Jliller v. Sherry, 2 Wall. 237, 250;
2 Maddock's Ch. Pr. 325; Ilauglhwout v. Muiphy, 22 N. J. Eq.
536, 545; Grant v. Bennett, 96 Illinois, 513.

FARMERS' LOAN &c., CO. v. LAKE ST. RD. CO.

61

Opinion of the Court.

But here no question is presented relating to rights acquired
by any third person after the commencement of the suit and
before the service of process on the defendants. As between
the immediate parties, in a proceeding in rem, jurisdiction must
be regarded as attaching when the bill' is filed and process has
subseissued, and where, as was the case here, the process is
of
practice
of
quently duly served, in accordance with the rules
the court.
The defendants could not defeat jurisdiction thus acquired,
and supplant the case, by bringing suit in another court and
procuring an ex parte injunction seeking to restrain the service
of process already issued.
As, then, the bill of foreclosure had been filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States, and the jurisdiction of that court
had thus attached before the commencement of the suit in the
state court, it follows upon principle and authority that it was.
not competent for the State court to interfere by injunction or
otherwise with the proceedings in the Federal court.
The possession of the res vests the court which has first acquired jurisdiction with the power to hear and determine all
controversies relating thereto, and for the time being disables
other courts of coordinate jurisdiction from exercising a like
power. This rule is essential to the orderly administration of
justice, and to prevent unseemly conflicts between courts whose
jurisdiction embraces the samesubjects and persons.
Nor is this rule restricted in its application to cases where
property has been actually seized under judicial process before
a second suit is instituted in another court, but it often applies
as well where suits are brought to enforce liens against specific
property, to marshal assets, administer trusts or liquidate insolvent estates, and in suits of a similar nature where, in the
progress of the litigation, the court may be compelled to assume
the possession and control of the property to be affected. The
rule has been declared to be of especial importance in its application to Federal and state courts. Peeck v. Jenness, 7 How.
612; Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450; .Moran v. Sturges, 154
U. S. 256 ; CentralBank v. Stevens, 169 U. S. 432 ; Harkrader
v. W1adley, 172 U. S. 148.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

We think that this salutary rule is applicable to the present
case. The bill filed in the Federal court looked to the enforcement of the trusts declared in the mortgage, the control of the
railroad through a receiver, the sale of the railroad, and the
final distribution of the assets of the company. Such a proceeding necessarily involves the right of the complainant trustee
to act as such, and the determination of the controversy in respect to the ownership of the bonds and to the power of a majority of the bondholders, by an agreement with the stockholders,
to dispense with an enforcement of the provisions of the mortgage by judicial proceedings. These questions are not for our
consideration, unless and until they are brought before us on
appeal from a final decree of the court whose jurisdiction was
first legally invoked to determine them.
Our conclusion is that the Superior Court of Cook County
erred in its decree perpetually enjoining and restraining the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, the plaintiff in error, from
proceeding with or prosecuting the said foreclosure suit in the
'Circuit Court of the United States, and from acting in any
manner whatsoever under and by virtue of the terms, provisions
and conditions of the said mortgage; that the Appellate Court of
the First District of Illinois erred in affirming said decree, and
that the Supreme Court of Illinois erred in affirming the judgment of the said Appellate Court.
Accordingly, the judgrnent of the Supreme Court of Illinois
is reversed, and the cause id remanded to that court for
further proceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion.

