LEOVY v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

were pending, one in the Circuit Court of Appeals and the other
and subsequent writ in this court, the latter was dismissed.
The writ of error in No. 271 falls within this rule.
The third question pro)ounded in Nfo. 259 is answered in the
negative.
The writ of error in No. 271 is dismissed.
and MR. JUSTICE WHITE were not present at the argument and took no part in the decision.
AIR. JUSTICE HARLAN

LEOVY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 238. Argued April 12, 16, 1900.-Decided May 14, 1900.

Subject to the paramount jurisdiction of Congress over the navigable waters of the United States, the State of Louisiana had, under the act of
March 2, 1849, c. 87, and the other statutes referred to in the opinion of
the court, full power to authorize the construction and maintenance of
levees, drains and other structures necessary and suitable to reclaim
swamp and overflowed lands within its limits.
The dam constructed by the plaintiff in error at Red Pass was constructed
under the police power of the State, and within the terms and purpose
of the grant by Congress.
The decision of the jury, to whom it had been left to determine whether
the plaintiff in error was guilty, that the pass was in fact navigable, is
not binding upon this court.
The term navigable waters of the United States has reference to commerce
of a substantial and permanent character to be conducted thereon.
The defendant below was entitled to the instruction asked for, but refused,
that the jury should be satisfied from the evidence that Red Pass was,
at the time it was closed, substantially useful to some purpose of interstate commerce, as alleged'in the indictment.
Upon the record now before the court it is held that Red Pass, in the condition it was when the dam was built, was not shown by adequate evidence to have been a navigable water of the United States, actually used
in interstate commerce, and that the court should have charged the jury,
as requested; that upon the whole evidence adduced, the defendants
were entitled to a verdict of acquittal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statecment of the Case.

AT the April term of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Louisiana an indictment was found,
charging Augustus F. Leovy and Robert S. Leovy, both of the
parish of Plaquemines, State of Louisiana, with, on the 16th of
November, 1895, unlawfully, wilfully, knowingly and without
permission of the Secretary of War, building and causing to be
built a dam in and across a certain navigable stream of the
United States known as Red Pass, and outside of any established harbor lines, which said Red Pass flows in the Gulf of
Mexico from a certain navigable stream of the United States,

known as the Jump, which said Jump is an outlet of the Miss-

issippi River into the Gulf of Mexico; that said dam has been
continued by the defendants since the same was built, and
still remains in and across said Red Pass, whereby the navigation of and commerce over and through Red Pass was then
and there, and has been ever since, impaired and. obstructed;
they, the said defendants, well knowing the said Red Pass to
be a navigable stream of the United States, in respect of which
the United States then and there had jurisdiction, contrary to
the form of the statute of the United States in such case made
and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the United
States.
The defendants entered a plea of not guilty; and the cause
was tried before the district judge, and a jury." The trial resulted, June 6, 1891, in a verdict of not guilty as to Augustus
F. Leovy, and of guilty as to Robert S. Leovy ; whereupon it
was adjudged that said Robert S. Leovy'pay a fine of two hundred dollafs and costs of prosecution.
Several bills of exception on behalf of Robert S. Leovy were
seasonably presented, and signed and allowed by the trial judge,
who, likewise, on. June 16, 1898, all6wed a writ of error, and
the cause was taken to the United States Circuit Court of Ap.
peals, for the Fifth District, which court, on February 28,
1899, affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court.
The case was then brought to this court on a writ of certiorari to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit.

LEOVY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Jr. Vietor Leovy for Leovy. Yrr. henry
I
J. Leovy and Xr.
Alexander Porter iMorse were on his brief.
11.. George HZines Gorman for the United States.
M. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
On March 2, 1849, the Congress of the United States by an
act of that date, c. 87, entitled "An act to aid the State of
Louisiana in draining the swamp land therein," enacted: "Thaf
to aid the State of Louisiana in constructing the necessary
levees and drains to reclaim the swamp and overflowed lands
therein, the whole of those swamp and overflowed lands, which
may be or are found unfit for cultivation, shall be, and the same
are hereby, granted to that State." 9 Stat. 352.
Similar grants have been made by Congress to other States
within whose boundaries were undrained swamp and overflowed
lands belonging to the United States. Act of September 28,
1850, c. 84; 9 Stat. 519. This legislation declares a public policy on the part of the government to aid the States in reclaiming swamp and ovrflowed lands, unfit for cultivation in their
natural state, and is a recognition of the right and duty of the
respective States, in consideration of such grants, to make and
maintain the necessary improvements.
By the act of September 13, 1890, c. 907, 26 Stat. 436, 454,
it is provided:
"That it shall not be lawful to build any wharf, pier, dolphin,
boom, dam, weir, breakwater, bulkhead, jetty or structure of
any kind outside established harbor lines, or in any navigable
waters of the United States where no harbor lines are or may
be established, without the permission of the Secretary of War,
in any port, roadstead, haven, harbor, navigable river or other
waters of the United States, in such manner as shall obstruct
or impair navigation, commerce or anchorage of said waters,
and it shall not be lawful hereafter to commence the construction of any bridge, bridge draw, bridge piers and abutments,
causeway or other works over or in any port, road, roadstead.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

haven, harbor, navigable river or navigable waters of the United
States, under any act of the legislative assembly of any State,
until the location and plan of such bridge or other works have
been submitted to and approved by the Secretary of War, or to
excavate or fill, or in any manner to alter or modify the course,
location, condition or capacity of the channel of said navigable
waters of the United States, unless approved and authorized by
the Secretary of War: Provided, That this section shall not
apply to any bridge, bridge draw, bridge piers and abutments,
the construction of which has been heretofore duly authorized
by law, or be so construed as to authorize the construction of
any bridge, draw bridge, bridge piers and abutments, or other
works, under an act of the legislature of any State, over or in
any stream, port, roadstead, haven or harbor, or other navigable water not wholly within the limits of such State."
The tenth section of the same act provided as follows:
"Every person and every corporation which shall be guilty
of creating or continuing any such unlawful obstruction in this
act mentioned, or who shall violate the provisions of the last
four preceding sections of this act, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and on con viction thereof shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $5000 or by imprisonment (in the case of a
natural person) not exceeding one year, or by both such punishments, in the discretion of the court. The creating or continuing of any unlawful obstruction in this act mentioned may
be prevented, and such obstruction may be caused to be removed by the injunction of any Circuit Court exercising jurisdiction in any district in which such obstruction may be threatened or may exist; and proper proceedings in equity to this
end may be instituted under the direction of the Attorney General of the United States."
In the river and harbor act of July 13, 1892, c. 158, 27 Stat.
88, 110, section 7 of the act of 1890 was amended and renacLed
so as to read as follows:
"That it shall not be lawful to build any wharf, pier, dolphin,
boom, dam, weir, breakwater, bulkhead, jetty or structure of
any kind outside established harbor lines, or in any navigable
waters of the United States where no harbor lines are or may

LEOVY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

be established, without the permission of the Secretary of War,
in any port, roadstead, haven, harbor, navigable river, or other
waters of the United States, in such manner as shall obstruct
or impair navigation, commerce or anchorage of said waters;
and it shall not be lawful hereafter to commence the construction of any bridge, bridge draw, bridge piers and abutments,
causeway or other works over or in any port, road, roadstead,
haven, harbor, navigable river of navigable waters of the United
States under any act of the legislative assembly of any State
until the location and plan of such bridge or other works have
been submitted to and approved by the Secretary of War, or
to excavate 6r fill, or in any manner to alter or modify the
course, location, condition or capacity of any port, roadstead,
haven, harbor, harbor of refuge, or inclosure within the limits
of a breakwater, or of the channel of any navigable water of
the United States, unless approved and authorized by the Secretary of War. Provided, That this section shall not apply
to any bridge, bridge draw, bridge piers and abutments the
construction of which has been heretofore duly authorized by
law, or beso construed as to authorize the 'construction of any
bridge, drawbridge, bridge piers and abutments, or other works,
under an act of the legislature of any State, over or in any
stream, port, roadstead, haven or harbor, or other navigable
water not wholly within the limits of such State."
Subject, then, to the paramount jurisdiction of Congress over
the navigable waters of the United States, the State of Louisiana has full power to authorize the construction and maintenance of levees, drains and other structures necessary and suitable to reclaim swamp and overflowed lands within her limits.
The pivotal question in the present case is whether Red Pass is a
navigable water of the United States in such a sense that a dam
erected therein for the purpose, and with the effect, of reclaiming overflowed lands and rendering them fit for cultivation,
could be constructed without the previous authorization of the
Secretary of War, it being admitted that no such authority was
ever applied for or procured.
Evidence was tendered, on behalf of the defendants, tending
to show that the dam in question was built by Robert S. Leovy,
VOL. CLXXVII-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

who was the syndic or official of the contiguous ward, in pursuance of a resolution of the police jury of the parish of Plaquemines, dated July 1, 1890, directing such syndic to have Red Pass
closed, and also tending to show an approval and ratification of
the work by the levee board of the district and by the police jury
at a meeting held February 8, 1898, and a direction to the attorney of the board to take such steps as should be necessary to prevent said Red Pass from being reopened. Some of these offers
were rejected by the trial court, and exceptions were taken by
the defendants. It is evident, however, that the court rejected
the offers only because it was the opinion of the court that such
evidence was immaterial, inasmuch as if Red Pass was not a
navigable water of the United States, within the meaning of
the statutes, the defendants would be entitled to a verdict of not
guilty, regardless of the action of the police jury and of the
levee board; and if Red Pass was such a navigable stream, the
action of the state or parish authorities, unauthorized by the Secretary of War, would not avail the defendants. Indeed, the
trial judge, in his charge, instructed the jury, as if the evidence
had been admitted, in the following terms:
"I charge you that the police jury of the parish had no right
to authorize Mr. Robert S. Leovy to dam Red Pass, if Red Pass
was a navigable water of the United States. I say that it had
no authority, because, in the year 1890, the Congress of the
United States passed the law under which this indictment has
been brought, forbidding the damming of any navigable stream
of the United States without the previous authorization of the
Secretary of War. Therefore, as it is not contended, in this
case, that there was any authority from the Secretary, but on
the contrary there is proof tending to show there was no such
authority, then it results that it is no defence for Mr. Robert S.
Leovy to show his pretended or alleged authority from the police
jury of the parish of Plaquemines. The police jury could not
legally have dammed it, and therefore Mr. Leovy could not."
We think, therefore, that we are warranted in regarding the
dam in question as constructed under the police power of the
State, and within the terms and purpose of the grant by Congress. There was evidence tending to show the character of

LEOVY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the country affected by floods from Red Pass -that it was
swamp land and sea marsh from the Mississippi River to the
Gulf. The testimony, enclosed in the record, of Shoenberger,
president of the police jury and of the levee board; of Lewis,
of the state board of engineers; of Wilkinson, ex-president of
levee board, and of De Armas, showed that the closing of this
pass has resulted in the redemption of large tracts of land,
greatly increasing their value ; that the property in the fifth
ward, before Red Pass and Spanish Pass were closed, was valued at $5000, and at this time it is valued at $100,000; and
that if those passes are kept closed for five years more it will
be three times as much; and that, if this pass be opened again,
by the removal of the dam, the orange property will be ruined.
It is conceded that Red Pass is not a natural stream, but is
in the nature of a crevasse, caused by the overflow of water
from the Mississippi River. This crevasse seems to have been
formed some time before the grant by the United States to Louisiana, and the fact that by this and similar breaks through the
banks of the river large tracts of land were rendered worthless,
was, it may be assumed, well known to Congress, and was, indeed, the actuating cause of the grant.
As respects navigation through Red Pass, there was some evidence, on the part of the government, that small luggers or
yawls, chiefly used by fishermen to carry oysters to and from
their beds, sometimes went through this pass ; but it was not
shown that passengers were ever carried through it, or that
freight destined to any other State than Louisiana, or, indeed,
destined for any market in Louisiana, was ever, much less habitually, carried through it.
The evidence on the part of the defendants showed that for
many years these crevasses or passes have been steadily growing shallower and narrower, and that at the time of closing
Red Pass few of the smallest craft attempted to pass through
it, and that the so-called mouth, or end of Red Pass next the
Gulf, had closed up and become a mere marsh. The trifling
use that was made of that pass was restricted to the river end
of the crevasse.
We cannot accept the contention of the government's counsel

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

that, because the jury was left to determine whether the pass
was in fact navigable, and found the defendant guilty, the decision of the jury is binding upon the appellate court. We
have a right to consider under what instructions and definitions,
given by the trial court, the jury found their verdict.
Before we examine the charge of the court, we shall briefly
review some of the cases from which may be derived a definition
of "navigable waters of the United States," within the meaning of the statutes under which this indictment was brought.
In the case of Boylan v. Shaffer, 13 La. Ann. 131, it was said
by the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana:
"Were the mere fact that steamboats or flatboats had been
a short distance up a stream or bayou in high water a sufficient
ground for declaring it a navigable stream, every slight depression on the banks of the Mississippi would then become a navigable stream, and should be opened for the benefit of rafts and
boats and the convenience of a few persons, to the total destruction of the planting interests on the banks of the river. It is
well known that the State has, for a number of years, been closing the small bayous making out of the principal rivers and
bayous, and thus redeeming large and valuable tracts of land."
In the case of Egan v. Htart, 45 La. Ann. 1358, there was
considered the right of the board of state engineers of the State
of Louisiana to build a dam across an alleged stream, designated as Bayou Pierre. It was alleged that it was a purely private undertaking which the board of state engineers was not
authorized to do at public expense, and that the dam would obstruct the navigation of Bayou Pierre, and would therefore violate the statute of Congress which forbade the construction of
any bridge or other works over or in any navigable waters of
the United States, unless approved by the Secretary of War.
The trial judge, as to the contention that Bayou Pierre was a
navigable stream, said:
"From Grande Ecore, where Bayou Pierre enters IRed River,
to a point some miles below its junction with Torre's Bayou, a
stream flowing out of the river, Bayou Pierre has been frequently navigated by steamboats. But from the point of junction tQ the dam in question it has never been navigated, and is

LEOVY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

unnavigable. Between these two points it is nothing but a highwater outlet, going dry every summer at many places, choked

with rafts and filled with sand, reefs, etc. It has no channel; in
various localities it spreads out into shallow lakes and over a wide
expanse of country, and is susceptible of being made navigable
just as a ditch would be if it were dug deep and wide enough
and kept supplied with a sufficiency of water."
And accordingly it was found by the trial court that Bayou
Pierre was not a navigable water of the United States. Its
judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, and
the case was brought to this court and the judgment of the court
below affirmed. Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188.

In Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway v. Ohio;165

U. S. 365, a judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio, affirming
a judgment of a trial court, whereby the defendant, an Ohio
corporation, was directed to absolutely remove a bridge or
modify its structure over the Ashtabula River, a stream wholly
within the State of Ohio, was brought to and affirmed by this
court. The case was thus stated in the opinion delivered by
Mr. Justice White:
"Both the pleadings and the errors here assigned deny the
jurisdiction of the State of Ohio or of its courts to control the
subject-matter of the controversy, on the theory that the determination of whether the defendant possessed the right to erect
the bridge and to continue it, although constructed without authority, is a Federal and not a state question. This contention
is predicated on the act of Congress of September 19, 1890, (26
Stat. 423).
"The contention is that the statute in question manifests the
purpose of Congress to deprive the several States of all authority
to control and regulate any and every structure over all navigable streams, although they be situated wholly within their
territory. That full power resides in the States as to the erection of bridges and other works in navigable streams wholly
within their jurisdiction, in the absence of the exercise by Congress of authority to the contrary, is conclusively determined."

Wilson v. Blackbird Creek, 2 Pet. 245; Withers v. Bi&ckly, 20
How. 84; Cardwell v. American Bridge Co., 113 V. S. 205;

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Willamette Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1; Shively v. Bowlby,
152 U. S. 33, and cases there cited.
"Indeed the argument at bar does not assail the rule settled
in the foregoing cases, but asserts that as the power which it
recognizes as existing in the States is predicated solely upon the
failure of Cingress to assert its paramount authority, therefore
the rule no longer obtains, since the act of 1890, relied on, substantially amounts to an express assumption by Congress of entire control over all and every navigable stream, whether or
not situated wholly within a State."
After quoting the language of the statute, the opinion proceeded:
"On the face of this statute, it is obvious
that it does not support the claim based upon it. Conceding, without deciding,
that the words ' water-ways of the United States,' therein used,
apply to all navigable waters, even though they be wholly situated within a State, and passing, also without deciding, the
contention that Congress can lawfully delegate to the Secretary
of War all its power to authorize structures of any kind over
navigable waters, nothing in the statute gives rise even to the
implication that it was intended to confer such power on the
Secretary of War. . . . It follows, therefore, that even conceding, arguendo, that the words Inavigable waters,' as used
in the act, were intended to apply to streams wholly within a
State, its obvious purpose was not to deprive the States of authority to grant power to bridge such streams, or to render lawful all bridges previously built without authority, but simply to
create an additional and cumulative remedy to prevent such
structures, although lawfully authorized, from interfering with
commerce."
In the case of The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, the following
definition of the term "1navigable waters" was expressed:
"Some of our rivers are as navigable for many hundreds of
miles above as they are below the limits of tidewater, and some
of them are navigable for great distances by large vessels which
are npt even affected by the tide at any point during their entire length. A different test must, therefore, be applied to determine the navigability of our rivers, and that is found in their

LEOVY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

navigable capacity. Those rivers must be regarded as public
navigable rivers in law which are navigable in fact. And they
are navigable in fact when they are used, or are susceptible of
being used, in their ordinary condition, as highways for commerce, over which trade and travel are or may be conducted
in the customary modes of trade and travel on water."
In the case of Tlie Montello, 20 Wall. 430, 441, the following
language was used:
"The capability of use by the public for purposes of transportation and commerce affords the true criterion of the navigability of a river rather than the extent and manner of that
use. If it be capable in its natural state of being used for purposes of commerce, no matter in what mode the commerce may
be conducted, it is navigable in fact, and becomes in law a public river or highway. Vessels of any kind that can float upon
the water, whether propelled by animal power, by the wind, or
by the agency of steam, are, or may become, the mode by which
a vast commerce can be conducted, and it would be a mischievous rule that would exclude either in determining the navigability of a river."
In Withers v. Buckley, 20 How. 84, this court said:
"The act of Congress of March 1, 1817, in prescribing the
free navigation of the Mississippi and the navigable waters
flowing into this river, could not have been designed to inhibit
the power inseparable from every sovereign or efficient government, to devise and to execute measures for the improvement
of the State, although such measures might induce or render
necessary changes in the channels or courses of rivers within
the interior of the State, or might be productive of a change
in the value of private property."
"Neither the Fourteenth Amendment, broad and comprehensive as it is, nor any other amendment, was designed to interfere with the power of the State, sometimes termed its
'police power,' to legislate so as to increase the industries of
the State, develop its resources, and add to its wealth and prosperity. From the very necessities of society, legislation of a
special character, having those objects in view, must often be
bad in certain districts, such as for draining marshes and irrigating arid plains." Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27.

.632

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

It is a safe inferehce from these and other cases to the samei
effect which might be cited, that the term, "INavigable waters
of the United States," has reference to commerce of a substantial and permanent character to be conducted thereon. The
power of Congress to regulate such waters is not expressly
granted in the Constitution, but is a power incidental to the
express "power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and
among the several States and with the Indian tribes;" and
with reference to which the observation was made by Chief
Justice Marshall, that "it is not intended to say that these
words comprehend that commerce which is completely internal,
which is carried on between man and man in a State, or between
different parts of the same State, and which does not extend to
or affect other States." Gibbon9s v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 191.
While, therefore, it may not be easy for a court to define
the
size and character of a stream which would place it within the
category of "navigable waters of the United States," or to define what traffic shall constitute "commerce among the States,"
so as to make such questions sheer matters of law, yet, in construing the legislation involved in the case before us, we may
be permitted to see that it was not the intention of Congress
to interfere with or prevent the exercise by the State of Louisiana of its power to reclaim swamp and overflowed lands by
regulating and controlling the current of small streams not
used habitually as arteries of interstate commerce.
The trial judge instructed the jury as follows:
"What is a navigable water of the United States ? It is a
navigable water 'which, either of itself, or in- connection with
other water, permits a continuous journey to another State. If
a stream is navigable, and from that stream you can make a
journey by water, by boat, by one of the principal methods used
in ordinary commerce, to another State from the State in which
you start on your journey, that is a navigable water of the
United States. It is so called in contradistinction to waters
which arise and come to an end within the boundaries of the
State. . . . But, if from the water in one State you can
travel by water continuously to another State, and the water
is a navigable water, then it is a navigable stream of the United

LEOVY v. UNITED STATES.

633

Opinion of the Court.

States. . . . If it was navigable, and connected with waters that permitted a journey to another State, then it is a navigable water of the United States." And again: "But the
fact I wish to impress upon you is this, that it is not absolutely
necessary that you should find that there was navigability all
the way from the Jump out to the Gulf, because if, from some
point beyond the place where Mr. Robert S. Leovy built this
dam, towards the Mississippi River, the stream was navigable,
then it would be a navigable stream of the United States, because it would connect with the Mississippi River."
If these instructions were correct, then there is scarcely a
creek or stream in the entire country which is not a navigable
water of the United States. Nearly all the streams on which
a skiff or small lugger can float discharge themselves into other
streams or waters flowing into a river which traverses more
than one State, and the mere capacity to pass in a boat of any
size, however small, from one stream or rivulet to another, the
jury is informed, is sufficient to constitute a navigable water of
the United States.
Such a view would extend the paramount jurisdiction of the
United States over all the flowing waters in' the States, and
would subject the officers and agents of a State, engaged in
constructing levees, to restrain overflowing rivers within their
banks, or in regulating the channels of small streams for the
purposes of internal commerce, to fine and imprisonment, unless
permission be first obtained from the Secretary of War. If
such were the necessary construction of the statutes here involved, their validity might well be questioned. But we do not
so.understand the legislation of Congress. When it is remembered that the source of the power of the general government
to act at all in this matter arises out of its power to regulate
commerce with foreign countries and among the States, it is
obvious that what the Constitution and the acts of Congress
have in view is the promotion and protection of commerce in
its international and interstate aspect, and a practical construction must be put on these enactments as intended for such large
and important purposes.
We also think that these instructions are open to the further

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

criticism that they contain no reference to the nature or extent
of the traffic or trade carried on in Red Pass before the erection
of the dam. Indeed, the charge necessarily implies that the
defendant was guilty if there was merely a capacity for passing
from Red Pass into the Mississippi River on any sort of a boat.
Very different was the view expressed by Chief Justice Shaw
when he said it is not "every small creek in which a fishing
skiff or gunning canoe can be made to float at high water, which
is deemed navigable, but in order to give it the character of a
navigable stream it must be generally and commonly useful to
some purpose of trade or agriculture." 21 Pick. 344.
We have read the testimony offered on behalf of the United
States to show the kind and extent of the navigation of the Red
Pass, and there is no view we can take of it that warranted the
jury in finding that interstate commerce was ever transacted
thereon. '!A few fishermen testified that they occasionally went
through this pass with small vessels, carrying oysters for planting, and one or two cargoes of willows ind timber were spoken
of. None of these witnesses pretended to have carried produce
or oysters out of the State. Nor can it be contended that the
Red Pass, at the time the dam was built, was open to the Gulf.
It was shown that the Gulf end of the pass had closed up,,so
that to get to the sea it was necessary to go out of Red Pass
into Tiger Pass, Tontine Pass, and Grand Pass, which are open
to the Gulf. And, accordingly, the trial judge instructed the
jury that it was not necessary, in order to find Red Pass to be
a navigable water of the United States, that they should find
that it was navigable out to the Gulf; that it was sufficient if
boats could reach the Mississippi River.
We think the defendant was entitled to the instruction asked
for, but refused, that the jury should be satisfied from the evidence that Red Pass was at the time it was closed, as alleged in
the indictment, substantially useful to some purpose of interstate commerce. The instruction actually given was as follows:
"If Tontine Pass and Red Pass are available for commerce
and navigation by means of luggers and oyster boats for the
purpose of useful commerce, it would be a navigable stream;
and if you find that it connected with other waters over which

LEOVY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the CoQurt.

a continuous journey could be made to other States, then it
would be a navigable water of the United States.
"I repeat to you that, under my view of the case, all you
have to decide is whether Red Pass was a navigable water of
the United States, and as you decide that the case will go, because it is conceded that Mr. Leovy dammed it."
It is plain, therefore, that the attention of the jury was not
directed at all to the question of any existing interstate conmerce, and that the learned judge was of opinion, and so ruled,
that the physical possibility of passing by a boat out of Red
Pass into the Mississippi River constituted the pass a navigable
water of the United States.
The court refused to give the following instruction:
"If the jury shall find that Red Pass was a crevasse, or outbreak, of the Mississippi River from its natural channel, the result of which was to overflow a large portion of Plaquemines
Parish, to the detriment of the inhabitants thereof, by the destruction of their property, and prejudicial to their health, the
State, in the exercise of its police power, delegated to the police
jury of the parish of Plaquemines, had a right to close it."
Perhaps this instruction ought to have been qualified or accompanied by a prayer that the acts of Congress, relied on by
the government, were not applicable to the case suggested in
the instruction asked for. But we think, in the circumstances
disclosed by the evidence, the instruction should have been
given, at least as so qualified.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in dealing with the error assigned for the refusal of the trial judge to so charge, said:
"There is no legitimate evidence in the record tending to
show that the police jury of the parish of Plaquemines ordered
Red Pass closed for the purpose of ' affecting or promoting the
peace, morals, education, health or good order of the people;'
but the case does show that the pass was ordered closed, and
was closed, for the sole purpose of reclaiming swamp lands.
Under the power to regulate commerce, Congress having forbidden the closing of any navigable river without the consent
of the United States, it is very doubtful whether any navigable
water of the United States, although wholly within the limits

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of the State, can be closed under the exercise of the police power
of the State for any purpose whatever, but where the purpose
is only the reclamation of swamp lands, there is no doubt the
police power of the State must give way to the authority of
Congress."
We think that the trial court might well take judicial notice
that the public health is deeply concerned in the reclamation of
swamp and overflowed lands. If there is any fact which may
be supposed to be known by everybody, and, therefore, by
courts, it is that swamps and stagnant waters are the cause of
malarial and malignant fevers, and that the police power is
never more legitimately exercised than in removing such nuisances. The defendant was not deprived of the defence that
the act which he was charged with was performed in order to
promote the health of the community, by the fact, if fact it
was, that the order under which he acted did not say anything about the subject of health, but simply authorized the
erection of the dam, so as to exclude the overflow from the
river.
Nor are we disposed to concur in the doubt expressed whether
any navigable water wholly within the limits of a State can be
closed under the exercise of the police power for any purpose
whatever. Such a doubt might be justified if there was express legislation of the United States forbidding the act proposed. But, as we have seen, in the present case the reclamation of swamp and overflowed lands was not only not forbidden,
but was recognized as the duty of the State, in consideration
of the grant of the public lands. And, for the reasons already
given, we do not construe the acts of Congress under which
this indictment was brought as intended to apply to the case of
a stream of the history and character disclosed in this record.
Hence, the state authorities were left free to act in such a manner as they thought fit to promote the health and prosperity
of the people concerned.
It can scarcely be contended that if, by a sudden breach of
the banks of the Mississippi River in the lowlands of Louisiana,
a stream of water across agricultural lands was created, endangering the health and welfare of the inhabitants, the case

LEOVY #. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

would be within the meaning and operation of the acts of Congress relied on in this case. It may be that in such a case, if
the State .declines to act or, rather, permits such a stream to
become a highway of commerce among the States, the Federal
control. over it might attach. Thus Grand Pass, of which Red
Pass is a branch, might, in view of the volume of its water and
of the nature and amount of the commerce carried on it, be held
to be a navigable water of the United States. However that
may be, our conclusion, upon the record now before us, is that
Red Pass, in the condition it was at the time when this dam
was built, was not shown by adequate evidence to have been a
navigable water of the United States, actually used in interstate
commerce, and that the court -should have charged the jury, as
requested, that, upon the whole evidence adduced, the defendants were entitled to a verdict of acquittal.
It is claimed by the counsel for the plaintiff in error that the
act of July 13, 1892, so far amended and repealed the act of
September 19, 1890, that the penal section of the latter was
repealed, and that hence, as no penalty is provided in the act
of 1892, the indictment and conviction of the plaintiff in error
was without authority of law. It is also contended that the
policy of Congress, in respect to the authority of the Secretary
of War in the matter of obstruction to navigation, has been
greatly changed and modified by the act of March 3, 1899.
Fifty-fifth Cong. Session 3, Ch. 425, sec. 9, p. 1151.
It is also suggested that whatever may be the powers of Congress, over streams wholly within the State, they cannot be
legitimately enforced by criminal prosecution of officers and
agents of the State for acts done under state authority, but that,
in such cases, the proper remedy would be found in bills in
equity.
But in the view we take of the case in hand, we are not called
upon to express any opinion on such questions.
The judgment of the Circuit O~urt of Appeals is reversed;
the judgment of time Circuit Court is likewise reversed, and
the cause is remanded to that court, with directions to award
a new trial.

