OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 1).
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 84. Argued December 18,19, 1899. -Decided

April 9, 1900.

The provision in the act of March 4, 1893, of the State of Indiana "that it
shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation having possession
or control of any natural gas or oil well, whether as a contractor, owner,
lessee, agent or manager, to allow or permit the flow of gas or oil from
any such well to escape into the open air without being confined within
such well or proper pipes, or other safe receptacle, for a longer period
than two days next after gas or oil shall have been struck in such well;
and thereafter all such gas or oil shall be safely and securely confined in
such well, pipes or other safe and proper receptacles," is not a violation
of the Constitution of the United States; and its enforcement as to persons whose obedience to its commands were coerced by injunction, is not
a taking of private property without adequate compensation, and does
not amount to a denial of due process of law, contrary to the provisions
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
but is only a regulation by the State of Indiana of a subject which espe.
cially comes within its lawful authority.

THE title, preamble and first section of a law enacted March 4,
1893, by the State of Indiana, (Acts of 1893, c. 36, p. 300,) are
as follows:
"An act concerning the sinking, safety, maintenance, use and
operation of natural gas and oil wells, prescribing penalties
and declaring an emergency.
"Whereas, great danger to life, and injury to persons and
property is liable to result from the improper, unsafe and negligent sinking, maintenance, use and operation of natural gas and
oil wells; therefore,
" SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
State of Indiana, That it shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation having possession or control of any natural gas
or oil well, whether as a contractor, owner, lessee, agent or
manager, to allow or permit the flow of gas or oil from any such
well to escape into the open air, without being confined within

OHI0

OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 1).
Statement of the Case.

such well or proper pipes or other safe receptacle, for a longer
period than two (2) days next after gas or oil shall have been

struck in such well. And thereafter all such gas or oil shall be
safely and securely confined in such well, pipes or other safe and
proper receptacles."
The remaining sections of the law in question are printed in
the margin.'
I Sue. 2. Whenever any well shall have been sunk for the purpose of obtaining natural gas or oil or exploring for the same, and shall be abandoned
or cease to be operated for utilizing the flow of gas or oil therefrom, it shall
be the duty of any person, firm or corporation having the custody or control
of such well at the time of such abandonment or cessation of use, and also
of the owner or owners of the land wherein such well is situated, to properly
and securely stop and plug the same as follows: If such well has not been
"shot" there shall be placed in the bottom of the hole thereof a plug of
well-seasoned pine wood, the diameter of which shall be within one half
inch as great as the hole of such well, to extend at least three feet above
the salt water level, where salt water has been struck; where no salt water
has been struck, such plug shall extend at least three feet from the bottom
of the well. In both cases such wooden plugs shall be thoroughly rammed
down and made tight by the use of drilling tools. After such ramming and
tightening the hole of such well shall be filled on top of such plug w.ith
finely broken stone or sand, which shall be well rammed to a point at least
four feet above the Trenton limestone, or any other gas or oil bearing rock;
on top of this stone or sand there shall be placed another wooden plug at
least five feet long with the diameter as aforesaid, which shall be thoroughly
rammed and tightened. In case such well shall have been "shot," the
bottom of the hole thereof shall be filled with a proper and sufficient mixture of sand, stone and dry cemept, so as to form a concrete up to a point
at least eight feet above the top of the gas or oil-bearing rock or rocks, and
on top of this filling shall be placed a wooden plug at least six feet long,
with diameter as aforesaid, which shall be properly rammed as aforesaid.
The casing from the well shall then be pulled or withdrawn therefrom, and
immediately thereafter a cast-iron ball eight inches in diameter shall be
dropped in the well and securely rammed into the shale by the driller or
owner of the well, after which not less than one cubic yard of sand pumpig or drilling taken from the well shall be put on top of said iron ball.
SEc. 3. Any person or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
act shall be liable to a penalty of two hundred dollars for each and every
such violation, and to the further penalty of two hundred dollars for each
ten days during which such violation shall continue; and all such penalties
shall be recoverable in a civil action or actions, in the name of the State of
Indiana, for the. use of the county in which such well shall be located,
together with reasonable attorneys' fees and costs of suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The issue which this record presents, on the subject of the law
just referred to, is this: Did the enforcement of the first section
of the statute produce as to the persons whose obedience to its
commands were coerced by injunction, a taking of private property without adequate compensation ; that is, did the execution
of the statute amount to a denial of due process of law contrary
to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United Statutes?
The controversy was thus initiated. The State of Indiana,
through its attorney general, filed a complaint in the Circuit
Court of the county of Madison in the State of Indiana, against
the Ohio Oil Company, a corporation organized under the laws
of the State of Ohio, but authorized to carry on its business in
the State of Indiana, as it had complied with the regulations
enacted by that State as to foreign corporations doing business
therein. The cause of complaint was thus stated:
"Plaintiff says that for many years heretofore there has
SEC. 4. Whenever any person or corporation in possession or control of
any well in which natural gas or oil has been found shall fail to comply
with the provisions of this act, any person or corporation lawfully in possession of lands situate adjacent to or in the vicinity or neighborhood of
such well may enter upon the lands upon which such well is situate and
take possession of such well from which gas or oil is allowed to escape in
violation of the provisions of section one of this act, and pack and tube
such well and shut in and secure the flow of gas or oil, and maintain a civil
action in any court of competent jurisdiction in this State against the owner,
lessee, agent or manager of said well, and each of them jointly and severally, to recover the cost and expense of such tubing and packing, together
with attorneys' fees and costs of suit. This shall be in addition to the penalties provided by section three of this act.
SEC. 5. Whenever any person or corporation shall abandon or cease
to operate any natural gas or oil well, and shall fail to comply with
the. provisions of section two of this act, any person or corporation lawfully in possession of lands adjacent to or in the vicinity or neighborhood
of such well may enter upon the lands upon which such well is situate and
take possession of such well, and plug and fill the same in the manner provided by section two of this act, and may maintain a civil .action in any
court of competent jurisdiction of this State against the person, persons
or corporation so failing, jointly and severally, to recover the costs and
expenses of such plugging and filling, together with attorneys' fees anti
costs of suit. This shall be in addition to the penalties provided by section three of this act.

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 1).
Statement of the Case.

existed, underlying the counties of Madison, Grant, Howard,
Delaware, Blackford, Tipton, Hamilton, Wells and other counties of the State of Indiana, a large subterranean deposit of natural gas, occupying a reservoir of large extent, with well-defined
boundaries, and utilized for fuel and light by the people of those
counties and many other counties and cities of Indiana, including Indianapolis, Fort Wayne, Richmond, Logansport, Anderson, Muncie, Marion, Kokomo, and others of the most populous
cities of said State, to which cities said gas is conducted, after
being brought to the surface of the earth, through pipes and
conduits, by means of which many hundreds of thousands of
the people of the State of Indiana are now, and have been for
more than ten years last past, continuously supplied with gas
for light and fuel; that said natural gas, underlying the counties aforesaid and other portions of the State, is contained in
and percolates freely through a stratum of rock known as Trenton rock, comprising a vast reservoir in which the gas is confined under great pressure and from which it escapes, when it
is permitted to do so, with great force.
"The fuel supplied by the natural gas thus obtained is the
cheapest and best known to civilization, and the value of the
natural gas deposit to the State and to its citizens is many millions of dollars; that since the discovery of said gas deposit in
1886 immense sums of money have come into the State and
have been invested in large manufacturing interests, and other
vasts sums of money belonging to the people of the State of
Indiana have been invested in similar enterprises, causing a
great increase in the population, principally in the territory
underlying which said gas is found. Many cities in and adjacent to the gas territory, including those named, are wholly
dependent for fuel upon natural gas, and for that reason the
people of the State of Indiana have become and are interested
in the protection and continued preservation of the natural gas
supply; that many millions of dollars invested in manufacturing
and other properties in and near said gas territory are wholly
dependent for their continued preservation and for the permanent value of their property upon said natural gas supply; that
their location and establishment in said gas territory was due
voL. CLXXVII-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

to the presence of natural gas underlying the same, without
which such enterprises could not operate at a profit, and that
in the event the supply of gas should be exhausted in said territory many of such manufacturing enterprises, in which thousands of the citizens of Indiana find employment at remunerative
wages, will be compelled to stop operation.
"That their employ~s will be thereby thrown out of employment, and many of them, being dependent upon their labor for
support, may and will become charges upon the State and its
several mhunicipal subdivisions; that the property of said manufacturing enterprises and the vast investments depending upon
them and related t5 them will become worthless and the owners
will be driven to remove to other parts of the country, taking
away from Indiana great wealth now interested in said enterprises as aforesaid.
"That in the cities named and in all the territory known as
the 'gas belt' the inhabitants have for years used practically
no other fuel than natural gas; that their houses have, in many
instances, been constructed with a view to the use of such fuel'
and will have to be differently equipped before other kinds of
fuel can be used; that the cost of natural gas as fuel to the
people of the 'gas belt,' who number several hundreds of
thousands, is very much less than that of any other fuel that
has ever been or can be procured by them, and that to the
other inhabitants of the State using said natural gas it has
become and is a source of great convenience, comfort and
increased happiness, because of its cheapness, convenience and
cleanliness as fuel.
"That many small villages in and near the gas territory have
within a few years become flourishing and opulent cities.
"That the State's wealth and its revenues derived from taxation on account of such increased population and the various
interests that have been fostered and supported by natural gas
have been greatly increased, and will, in the event natural gas
gives out, be correspondingly curtailed.
"That the State of Indiana, relying upon the permanent supply of natural gas, has at great expense equipped many of its
public institutions, including the state-house, the Central and

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 1).
Statement of the Case.

other hospitals for the insane, the asylums for the blind and deaf
and dumb, the institution for the care of orphans of American
soldiers, and other public institutions owned and maintained
by the State of Indiana and its various municipal subdivisions, together with the court houses in many counties, and a
vaist number of public schools, for the use of natural gas as a
fuel, by which the cost of maintaining the public buildings and
institutions above named has been materially lessened and the
comfort and happiness of their inmates and occupants immensely increased.
"That the supply of natural gas underlying the territory
aforesaid is so placed in such Trenton rock that the diminution or consumption of said gas taken from said reservoir
affects and reduces correspondingly the common supply.
"That if the gas supply is husbanded and protected it will
last for many years and continue to furnish the various cities
named with abundant fuel, and the population, wealth and
other material interests of the State will continue to be benefited and enhanced and the comfort, happiness and enjoyment
of the people of the State greatly increased.
"That underlying a portion of said natural gas territory
and at the same levels, occupying the interstices- said Trenton rock in common with said gas, are large quantities of
petroleum oil.; and that, because of the volatile character of
said gas and the pressure under which it is confined in said
Trenton rock when said reservoir is tapped by wells drilled
into the same from the surface of the earth, said gas and oil
will and do escape into the open air in great volumes, unless
securely confined in tanks or other proper receptacles.
"That on or about the 25th day of May, 1897, said defendant, the Ohio Oil Company, drilled, near the city of Alexandria, in said Madison County, a number of wells into said gas
and oil bearing rock, producing natural gas and petroleum as
aforesaid in large quantities, which wells are known by the
name of the land owner upon whose land, they are situated,
which name and the description of said wells are as follows,
to wit."
The complaint then enumerated five gas and oil wells which

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the. Case.

had been opened and were being operated by the defendant for
extracting oil, and averred as follows:
"That instead of securely anchoring said wells and each of
them.when so drilled so as to confine within the same or within
tanks or pipes or other safe receptacles the natural gas produced
therefrom within two days after said wells were respectively
completed and gas and oil was struck therein, the said defendants, ever since the completion of said wells, all of which have
been completed for periods varying from four to nine months,
have unlawfully permitted the gas produced therein to flow and
escape into the open air, whereby many millions of cubic feet
of natural gas have been greatly diminished, and the property
of its citizens in and near said gas territory dependent upon the
continued supply of said natural gas for fuel, as aforesaid, has
been greatly damaged and decreased in value.
"That the defendants and each of them avow their purpose
to permit said gas to escape continuously and indefinitely hereafter from such wells, and refuse to make any effort to confine
the same, but declare their purpose to drill other wells in said
gas territory and permit the gas therefrom to flow and escape
into the open air, and that if said gas continues to flow from
said wells the supply of natural gas upon which the citizens of
said State depend, as aforesaid, will be greatly diminished ; that
the pressure of said gas, as found in said Trenton rock, will be
greatly diminished, and that by the diminution of said pressure water will accumulate in said rock stratum and ultimately
entirely displace and overcome said gas supply.
"Plaintiff, therefore, says that, because of the wrongful acts
of defendants above described, heretofore committed and now
continuing, its property and that of its citizens has been and
will continue to be essentially interfered with, and the comfortable enjoyment of the lives of its citizens greatly interrupted."
Averring the irreparable injury to result from allowing the
wells to continue to flow, as stated, the inadequacy of the enforcement of the penalties provided in the statute to meet the evil
complained of, and the fact that a multiplicity of suits would
be engendered if the writ of injunction prayed for was not
issued, the bill charged

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 1).
Statement of the Case.

"That the value of the gas wasted by permitting said several
wells to remain open each day is of great value, and that, in
addition to the value of the same, the whole gas territory or field
is greatly damaged by permitting said wells to remain open, in
that what is known as 'back pressure,' resulting from the confinement of said gas, is in a great measure relieved and destroyed
when said gas is liberated in the manner aforesaid, and that
said back pressure is necessary throughout said field in order to
prevent the flow of water into said rock stratum and the consequent displacement of the gas therein contained; that, for
the protection of said gas supply from the invasion of salt
water, it is necessary that in the use of gas from wells drilled
into said reservoir only a fraction of the entire volume of said
wells should be used, to the end that the back pressure shall be
maintained at as high a pressure as possible, and that any other
or freer method of using said gas has a tendency to expose the
same to danger of salt water, as aforesaid."
The prayer was as follows:
"And plaintiff therefore prays that a temporary order issue
forthwith from this court prohibiting, restraining and enjoining
said defendant, its agents, servants and employ~s, from further
suffering or permitting the natural gas produced in said wells
or any of them, or any part thereof, to longer escape therefrom,
and that said defendant be ordered, directed and commanded
forthwith to securely confine the same either by anchoring each
of said wells or by confining the gas produced therefrom in
tanks, pipes or other proper receptacles, and that failing or refusing so to do the sheriff of Madison County be ordered and
directed forthwith to procure necessary materials and labor and
thereby anchor, secure and confine the natural gas produced
from said wells and each of them, and that the expense of so
doing be taxed as part of the costs of this suit.
"And the plaintiff further prays that upon the final hearing
of this cause said defendant company, its officers, servants,
agents and employ~s, be perpetually enjoined and prohibited
from further suffering said gas to escape, and that they be forever thereafter commanded to confine said gas safely and securely in pipes, tanks or other proper receptacles, and for all
proper relief."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The temporary injunction issued as prayed for. The defendant appeared and demurred to the complaint as not stating a
cause of action. This was overruled. The defendant then answered as follows:
"The defendant, further answering, says that before and at
the commencement of this action it had in good faith been and
then was engaged in the business of producing oil by drilling
therefor in the earth and rock below in said county of Madison,
and that in the carrying on of said business it has expended
many thousands of dollars in the leasing of territory, the purchase of machinery and equipment thereof, and for the drilling
of a number of wells and for pipes and pipe lines, all of which
it then owned and still owns.
"The defendant admits that it drilled the well complained of
herein, but says that said well was so drilled in good faith solely
for the purpose of raising and producing oil, the defendant not
being engaged in the business of producing or transporting natural gas in said county, and having there no plant for that purpose, and such gas in such case being of no value to defendant,
and there being reasonable grounds to believe that oil existed
in said territory in sufficiently paying quantities to be utilized.
"That said well complained of was not drilled in or near any
village, town or city, but, on the contrary, was drilled in the
country and remote from any dwelling, and the same as so constructed and operated is not dangerous to life or property.
"That said well was so drilled and completed, oil was found
therein in paying quantities, and the defendant proceeded to
and did save and utilize the same, paying to the land owner the
stipulated royalties therefor, and so operated the same with
knowledge, approbation and consent of such land owner, and
was so operating the same solely as an oil well and in entire good
faith at the time of the commencement of this action; all of
which was so done under and by virtue of a lease to defendant
by the owner of said land granted before the commencement
of this suit, under which lease defendant owns all the gas and
oil in said well and under said land, and said well is of great
value as an oil well.
"That in said well and in the same strata of rock whence such

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 1).
Statement of the Case.

oil was produced there were also found at said time quantities
of natural gas, which by its own pressure escaped through said
pipes and into the opew air, said pipes being the same as the
ones through which said oil was produced and saved, and in so
saving such oil defendant utilized such gas as power, force and
agency to raise said oil from the rock-bearing strata below the
surface of the ground, such being the usual, natural and ordinary method of raising and saving oil in such cases.
"And the defendant further says that no machinery or process of any kind has ever by the highest skill been devised or
known to the world whereby in such a case the oil in such well
can be produced and saved, unless at the same time such natural
gas as may be in such well is suffered to escape, and the defendant charges the fact to be, therefore, that if such gas shall be
shut into-such well in such case that it will be impossible to
raise or produce oil in any such well, and thereby defendant's
said business, together with its said plant, property and profits,
will be entirely destroyed and the people of said county and
State will be deprived of the use and profits of such oil, which
is of vastly more value than natural gas in said well; and the
defendant says it so operated said well with the highest 'skill,
with the most improved machinery and appliances known to the
world, and with employ6s of the highest skill, and that no more
gas was suffered to escape from such well than was consistent
with the due operation of said well with the highest skill.
"The defendant further alleges that for many months before
the completion of said well it was openly and publicly engaged
in acquiring terlitory, in equipping said plant, in constructing
such oil lines, and in incurring the liabilities and paying the
money therefor, as hereinbefore alleged, all with the knowledge
,and acquiescence of the plaintiff and with no notice or knowledge
whatever to or on the part of defendant that it would not be
allowed to operate such well or wells until after the said money
had been so expended and after said well had been so completed.
"That in the territory where said well complained of is situated there are a number of paying oil wells, owned and operated by various persons and corporations, and said field, when

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

properly developed, may reasonably be expected to be a large
one for the production of oil, which will be and is of great value
to the people of said county."
Referring to the law of Indiana, the context of which has
already been stated, the answer contained this averment:
"This defendant further alleges that said act of the general
assembly of the State of Indiana, as above set out, violates the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States
in this, that it deprives the defendant and others of liberty and
property without due process of law, and denies to defendant
and others the equal protection of the laws."
The State demurred to the answer as not alleging facts sufficient to constitute a defence. This demurrer was sustained.
The defendant refusing to answer further, a decree granting a
permanent injunction was entered. An appeal having been
prosecuted to the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana, in that
court the decree of the trial court was in all respects affirmed.
50 N. E. Rep. 1125. This writ of error was thereupon allowed.
.M. X. F. Elliott and .Xr. George Skirts for plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. C. Shirley and JXr. Williagn M. Taylor for defendant in error. Mr. iMerrill hMoores was on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The assignments of error all in substance are resolvable into
one proposition; which is, that the enforcement of the provisions of the Indiana statute as against the plaintiff in error,
constituted a taking of private property without adequate compensation, and therefore amounted to a denial of due process of
law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
When this proposition is analyzed by the light of the facts
which are admitted on the record, it becomes apparent that the
foundation upon which it must rest involves two contentions
which are in conflict one with the other; in other words, the
argument by which alone it is possible to sustain the claim be-

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. I).
Opinion of the Court.

comes, when truly comprehended, self-destructive. Thus, it is
apparent, from the admitted facts, that the oil and gas are commingled and contained in a natural reservoir which lies beneath
an extensive area of country, and that as thus situated the gas
and oil are capable of flowing from place to place, and are hence
susceptible of being drawn off by wells from any point, provided
they penetrate into the reservoir. It is also undoubted that
such wells, when bored from many points in the superincumbent
surface of the earth, are apt to reach the reservoir beneath.
From this it must necessarily come to pass that the entire volume of gas and oil is in some measure liable to be decreased by
the act of any one who, within the superficial area, bores wells
from the surface and strikes the reservoir containing the oil and
gas. And hence, of course, it is certain, if there can be no authority exerted by law to prevent the waste of the entire supply of gas and oil, or either, that the power which exists in
every one who has the right to bore from the surface and tap
the reservoir involves, in its ultimate conception, the unrestrained
license to waste the entire contents of the reservoir by allowing
the gas to be drawn off and to be dispersed in the atmospheric
air, and by permitting the oil to flow without use or benefit to
any one. These things being lawful, as they must be if the acts
stated cannot be controlled by law, it follows that no particular
individual having a right to make borings can complain, and
thus the entire product of oil and gas can be destroyed by any
one of the surface owners. The proposition, then, w.hich denies
the power in the State to regulate by law the manner in which
the gas and oil may be appropriated, and thus prevent their
destruction, of necessity involves the assertion that there can
be no right of ownership in and to the oil and gas before the
same have been actually appropriated by being brought into
the possession of some particular person. But it cannot be that
property as to a specified thing vests in one who has no right
to prevent any other person from taking or destroying the object which is asserted to be the subject of the right of property.
The whole contention, therefore, comes to this: that property
has been taken without due process of law, in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment, because of the fact that the thing taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

was not property, and could not, therefore, be brought within
the guarantees ordained for the protection of property.
The confusion of thought which permeates the entire argument is twofold: First, an entire misconception of the nature
of the right of the surface-owner to the gas and oil as they are
contained in their natural reservoir, and this gives rise to a misconception as to the scope of the legislative authority to regulate the appropriation and use thereof. Second, a confounding,
by treating as identical, things which are essentially separate,
that is, the right of the owner of land to bore into the bosom of
the earth, and thereby seek to reduce the gas and oil to possession, and his ownership after the result of the borings has
reached fruition to the extent of oil and gas by himself actually
extracted and appropriated. In other words, the fallacy arises
from considering that the means which the owner of land has
a right to use to obtain a result is in legal effect, the same as
the result which may be reached. We will develop the misunderstanding which is involved in the matters just stated.
No time need be spent in restating the general common law
rule that the ownership in fee of the surface of the earth carries
with it the right to the minerals beneath, and the consequent
privilege of mining to'extract them. And we need not, therefore, pause to consider the scope of the legislative authority to
regulate the exercise of mining rights and to direct the methods
of their enjoyment so as to prevent the infringement by one
miner of the rights of others. Del Monute _iining Co. v. Last
(Jliance Xining Co., 171 U. S. 55, 60. The qujestion here arisinog does not require a consideration of the matters just referred
to, but it is this: Does the peculiar character of the substances,
oil and gas, which are here involved, the manner in which they
are held in their natural reservoirs, the method by which and
the time when they may be reduced to actual possession or become the property of a particular person, cause them to be exceptions to the general principles applicable to other mineral deposits, and hence subject them to different rules? True it is that
oil and gas, like other minerals, are situated beneath the surface
of the earth, but except for this one point of similarity, in many
other respects they greatly differ. They have no fixed sitls

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

under a particular portion of the earth's surface within the area
where they obtain. They have the power, as it were, of selftransmission. No one owner of the surface of the earth, within
the area beneath which the gas and oil move, can exorcise his
righ-t to extract fromp the common reservoir, in which the supply
is held, without, to an extent, diminishing the source of supply
as to which all other owners of the surface must exercise their
rights. The waste by one owner, caused by a reckless enjoyment of his right of striking the reservoir, at once, therefore,
operates upon the other surface owners. Besides, whilst oil and
gas are different in character, they are yet one, because they are
unitedly held in the place of deposit. In Brown v. S'pilnan,
155 U. S. 665, 669, 670, these distinctive features of deposits of
gas and oil were remarked upon. The court said:
"Petroleum gas and oil are substances of a peculiar character,
and decisions in ordinary cases of mining, for coal and other
minerals which have a fixed situs, cannot be applied to contracts
concerning them without some qualifications. They belong to
the owner of the land, and are a part of it, so long as they are
on it or in it, or subject to his control, but when they escape
and go into other land, or come under another's control, the
title of the former owner is gone. If an adjoining owner drills
his own land and taps a deposit of oil or gas, extending under
his neighbor's field, so that it comes into his well, it becomes
his property. BR)own v. Vandergrift, 80 Penn. St. 142, 147;
Westmoreland Nat. Gas Co.'s Appeal, 25 Weekly Notes of
Cases, (Penn.) 103."
In Westvroreland &i Cambria Viatmral Gas Co. v. De Witt,
130 Penn. St. 235, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania considered the character of ownership in natural gas and oil as these
substances existed beneath the surface of the earth. The court
said:
"The learned master says gas is a mineral, and while in situ
is part of the land, and therefore possession of the land is possession of the gas. But this deduction must be made with some
qualifications. Gas, it is true, is a mineral; but it is a mineral
with peculiar attributes, which require the application of precedents arising out of ordinary mineral rights, with much more

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

careful consideration of the principles involved than of the mere
decisions. Water, also, is a mineral, but the decisions in ordinary cases of mining rights, etc., have never been held as unqualified precedents in regard to flowing or even to percolating
waters. Water and oil, and saill
more strongly gas, may be
classed by themselves, if the analogy be not too fanciful, as
minerals ferce vaturce. In common with animals, and unlike
other minerals, they have the power and the tendency to escape
without the volition of the owner. Their 'fugitive and wandering existence within the limits of a particular tract was uncertain,' as said by Chief Justice Agnew in Brown v. Vandergrift, 80 Penn. St. 147, 148. .

.

.They belong to the owner of

the land, and are a part of it, so long as they are on or in it,
and are subject to his control; but when they escape and go
into other land, or come under another's control, the title of
the former owner is gone. Possession of the land, therefore,
is not necessarily possession of the gas."
In Hague v. Wheeler, 157 Penn. St. 324, the question involved
in the cause was the right of a land owner who had a gas well
on his own land to complain of the escape of gas from a well
situated on the land of another. After adverting to the rule
embodied in the maxinA, sic utere tao ut alienum non lwdas, and
after referring to the exceptional nature of the right to acquire
ownership in natural gas and oil, it was decided that the complainant was not entitled to relief. The court said, 340, 341:
"Now, it is doubtless true that the public has a sufficient interest in the preservation of oil and gas from waste to justify
legislation upon this subject. Something has been done in this
direction already by the acts regulating the plugging of abandoned wells. . . . In the disposition he may make of it
(private property) he is subject to tfo limitations. He must
not disregard his obligations to the public. He must not disregard his neighbor's rights. If he uses his product in such a
manner as to violate any rule of public policy, or any positive
provisions of the written law, he brings himself within'the reach
of the courtg. If the use he makes of his own, or its waste, is
injurious to the property or the health of others, such use or
waste may be restrained, or damages recovered therefor; but,

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

subject to these limitations, his power as an owner is absolute
until the legislature shall, in the interest of the public, as consumers, restrict and regulate it by statute."
Again, in Jones v. Forest Oil Company, (January, 1900,) 44
Atl. Rep. 1074, the same subject was ohce more considered.
The complaint was filed by one land owner having a gas well
on his land to enjoin the owner of adjoining property from
using in a gas well thereon a pump which was asserted to have
such power that its operation would draw away the oil and gas
from the well of the complainant to that of the defendant.
Reviewing the cases to which we have just referred, and after
quoting the language of Chief Justice Agnew, in Brown v.
VTandegrift, supra, wherein as we have seen oil and gas were
by analogy classed as "minerals feial nature," the court decided :
"From these cases we conclude that the property of the owner
of lands in oil and gas is not absolute until it is actually in his
grasp, and brought to the surface."
Again, applying the consequences of the doctrine just stated,
the court declared :
"If possession of the land is not necessarily possession of the
oil and gas, is there any reason why an oil and gas operator
should not be permitted to adopt any and all appliances known
to the trade to make the production of his wells as large as
possible ?"
A brief examination of the Indiana decisions, on the subject
of oil and natural gas, and the right to acquire ownership thereto, will make it apparent that from the peculiar nature of these
substances courts of that State have announced the same rule as
that recognized by this court in Brown v. Spilman, supra, and
which has been applied by the Supreme Court of the State of
Pennsylvania. In State ex rel. Corwin v. Indiana & Ohio Oil,
Gas & Mining Co., 120 Indiana, 575, a law of the State of Indiana which made it unlawful for any person to conduct natural gas beyond the State, and imposing penalties for so doing,
was assailed as unconstitutional because repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States. The
court held the statute to be void for the asserted cause, The

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

property in natural gas when reduced to actual possession was
decided to be like any other property, and therefore the subject
of commerce, and within the protection of the Constitution of
the United States. In Jamieson v. Indiana -NaturalGas &
Oil Company, 128 Indiana, 555, a law of that State which prohibited the transportation of natural gas through pipes at a
greater pressure than three hundred pounds per square inch, or
otherwise than by its natural flow, was attacked not only on
the ground of its interference with the right of property which
sprang into existence with the possession of the gas, but because
also the act in question was a regulation of interstate commerce.
Both contentions were decided to be without merit, substantially
on the ground that the dangerous nature of the product, its susceptibility to explosion and the consequent hazard to life and
property which might arise from its movement through pipes,
made the act of transmitting a fit subject for police regulation.
In the course of its opinion the court said:
"The local character of such a substance as natural gas is,
we repeat, marked and peculiar. It is a natural product, and
its source is in the soil or rocks of the earth. It is as strikingly
local as coal or petroleum; and yet no one has ever questioned
the power of a State to enact laws governing mining.
It is so essentially local that only local regulation can be effective or appropriate. It is found in very few localities, and the
character of locality is impressed upon it more clearly and
strongly than upon almost any other natural product in the
world."
Again, said the court:
"The local and peculiar character of natural gas makes it
almost impossible that it should be the subject of general
national regulation. . . . Upon this point we affirm tiat
natural gas is characteristic and peculiarly a local product;
that its production is confined to a limited territory; that because of its local characteristics and peculiarities it is a proper
subject for state legislation, and cannot, so far as regards local
production, be made the subject of general legislation by Congress."
In People's Gas Company v. Tner, 131 Indiana, 277 and

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

280, the controversy was this: A lot owner in a town filed a
bill for an injunction to prevent a neighboring lot owner from
using nitro-glycerine " to shoot" a gas well on his property.
The court refused the injunction. In the course of the opinion
it was said:
"It has been settled in this State that natural gas when
brought to the surface of the earth and placed in pipes for
transportation, is property, and may be the subject of interstate
commerce. State V. Indiana & Ohio Oil Gas & Min. Co., 120
Indiana, 575. Water, petroleum, oil and gas are' generally
classed by themselves as minerals possessing in some degree a
kindred nature."
After quoting authorities relating to subterranean currents
of water, and treating gas and oil before being reduced to
possession as of a kindred nature, the court said:
"Like water it is not the subject of property, except while
in actual occupancy, and a grant of either water or oil is not a
grant of the soil or of anything for which ejectment will lie."
The case of Brown, v. Vandegrift) 80 Penn St. 142, from
which we have previously quoted, was then referred to, and
the analogies between oil and gas and animals fere naturee
were approved and adopted. In Townsend v. State, 147 Indiana, 624, the constitutionality of a statute forbidding the burning of natural gas in flambeau lights was attacked because it
was asserted to violate the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States and various provisions of the
constitution -of the State of Indiana. The court held that the
statute was not amenable to the assaults made upon it. In a
full opinion reviewing the nature of the ownership in oil and
natural gas, the power of the State to regulate and control
their use and waste in the interest of all those within the gas
field and of the public at large was elaborately considered.
Reviewing its own previous adjudications, which we have cited,
and those of the Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvania,
to which we have also referred, it was decided that the owners
of the surface of' the land. within the gas field, whilst they had
the exclusive right on their land to sink wells for the purpose
of extracting the oil and gas, had no right of property therein

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

until by the actual drawing of the oil and gas to the surface of
the earth they had reduced these substances to physical possession. It was further held that in consequence of the nature
of the deposits, of their transmissibility, of their interdependence, of the rights of all and of the public at large, the State
could lawfully exercise the power to regulate the right of the
surface owners among themselves to seek to obtain possession,
and to prevent the waste of the products in which all the surface owners within the area wherein the gas and oil were deposited, as well as the public, had an interest, because in the
preservation of these substances the well-being and prosperity
of the entire community was largely involved. And it was
upon the opinion announced in that case that the court rested
its decree in the case now under review.
Without pausing to weigh the reasoning of the opinions of
the Indiana court in order to ascertain whether they, in ek'ery
respect, harmonize, it is apparent that the cases in question, in
accord with the rule of general law, settle the rule of property
in the State of Indiana, to be as follows. Although in virtue
of his proprietorship the owner of the surface may bore wells
for the purpose of extracting natural gas and oil, until these
substances are actually reduced by him to possession, he has no
title whatever to them as owner. That is, he has the exclusive
right on his own land to seek to acquire them, but they do not
become his property until the effort has resulted in dominion
and control by actual possession. It is also clear from the
Indiana cases cited that, in the absence of regulation by law,
every owner of the surface within a gas field may prosecute
his efforts and may reduce to possession all or every part, if
possible, of the deposits without violating the rights of the
other surface owners.
If the analogy between animals ferne naturee and mineral
deposits of oil and gas, stated by the Pennsylvania court and
adopted by the Indiana court, instead of simply establishing a
similarity of relation, proved the identity of the two things,
there would be an end of the case. This follows because things
which are fere naturw belong to the "negative community;"
in other words, are public things subject to the absolute control

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. I).
Opinion of the Court.

of the State, which, although it allows them to be reduced to
possession, may at its will not only regulate but wholly forbid
their future taking. Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519, 525.
But whilst there is an analogy between animals ferw naturc
and the moving deposits of oil and natural gas, there is not
identity between them. Thus, the owner of land has the exclusive right on his property to reduce the game there found to
possession, just as the owner of the soil has the exclusive right
to reduce to possession the deposits of natural gas and oil found
beneath the surface of his land. The owner of the soil cannot
follow game when it passes from his property; so, also, the
owner may hot follow the natural gas when it shifts from beneath his own to the property of some one else within the gas
field. It being true as to both animalsferae naturca and gas and
oil, therefore, that whilst the right to appropriate and become
the owner exists, proprietorship does not take being until the
particular subjects of the right become property by being reduced to actual possession. The identity, however, is for many
reasons wanting. In thingsferee naturce all are endowed with
the power of seeking to reduce a portion of the public property
to the domain of private ownership by reducing them to possession. In the case of natural gas and oil no such right exists
in the public. It is vested only in the owners in fee of the surface of the earth within the area of the gas field. This difference points at once to the distinction between the power which
the lawmaker may exercise as to the two. In the one, as the
public are the owners, every one may be absolutely prevented
from seeking to reduce to possession. No divesting of private
property, under such a condition, can be conceived because the
public are the owners, and the enacting by the State of a law as
to the public ownership is but the discharge of the governmental
trust resting in the State as to property of that character. Geer
v. Connecticut, supra. On the other hand, as to gas and oil,
the surface proprietors within the gas field all have the right to
reduce to possession the gas and oil beneath. They could not
be absolutely deprived of this right which belongs to them without a taking of private property. But there is a co-equal right
in them all to take from a common source of supply, the two
VOL. CLXXvii-14

OCTOBER TERM, ,1899.
Opinion of the Court.

substances which in the nature of things are united, though separate. It follows from the essence of their right and from the
situation of the things, as to which it can be exerted, that the
use by one of his power to seek to convert a part of the coinmon fund to actual possession may result in an undue proportion being attributed to one of the possessors of the right, to
the detriment of the others, or by waste by one or more, to the
annihilation of the rights of the remainder. Hence it is that
the 4egislative power, from the peculiar nature of the right and
the bbjects upon which it is to be exerted, can be manifested
for the purpose of protecting all the collective owners, by secur,
ing a just distribution, to arise from the enjoyment by them, of
their privilege to reduce to possession, and. to reach the like end
by preventing waste. This necessarily implied legislative authority is borne out by the analogy suggested by things ferce
nature,which it is unquestioned the legislature has the authority to forbid all from taking, in order to protect them from
undue destruction, so that the right of the common owners, the
public, to reduce to possession may be ultimately efficaciously
enjoyed. Viewed, then, as a statute to protect or to prevent
the waste of the common property of the surface owners, the
law of the State of Indiana which is here attacked because it is
asserted that it devested private property without due compen
sation, in substance, is a statute protecting private property and
preventing it from being taken by one of the common owners
without regard to the enjoyment of the others. Indeed, the
entire arguilent, upon which the attack on the statute must
depend, involves a dilemma, which is this: If the right of the
collective owners of the surface to take from the common fund,
and thus reduce a portion of it to possession, does not create a
property interest in the common fund, then the statute does not
provide for the taking of private property without compensation. If, on the other hand, there be, as a consequence of the
right of the surface owners to reduce to possession, a right of
property in them, in and to the substances contained in the
common reservoir of supply, then as a necessary result of the
right of property, its indivisible quality and the peculiar position
of the things to which it relates, there must arise the legislative

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

power to protect the right of property from destruction. To
illustrate by another form of statement, the argument is this:
There is property in the surface owners in the gas and oil held
in the natural reservoir. Their right to take cannot be regulated without devesting them of their property without adequate
compensation, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, and
this, although it be that if regulation cannot be exerted one
property owner may deprive all the others of their rights, since
his act in so doing will be damnnunn absque injuria. This is but
to say that one common owner may devest all the others of
their rights without wrongdoing, but the lawmaking power cannot protect all the owners in their enjoyment without violating
the Constitution of the United States.
These considerations are sufficient to dispose of the case. But
as there are several contentions which seem to have been considered, in argument, as resting on different premises, though such
in reason is not the case, we briefly notice them separately:
First. It is argued that as the gas, before being allowed to disperse in the air, serves the purpose of forcing up the oil, therefore it is not wasted, hence is not subject to regulation. Second. That the answer averred that the defendant was so situated as not to be able to use or dispose of the gas which comes
to the surface with the oil ; from which it follows that the gas
must either be stored or dispersed in the air. Now, the answer
further asserted that when the gas is stored and not used the
back pressure, on the best known pump, would, if not arresting
its movement, at least greatly diminish its capacity. Hence it
is said the law by making it unlawful to allow the gas to escape
made it practically impossible to profitably extract the oil. That
is, as the oil could not be taken at a profit by one who made no
use of the gas, therefore he must be allowed to waste the gas
into the atmosphere, and thus destroy the interest of the other
common owners in the reservoir of gas. These contentions but
state in a different form the matters already disposed of. They
really go not to the power to make the regulations, but to their
wisdom. But with the lawful discretion of the legislature of
the State we may not interfere.
In view of the fact that regulations of natural deposits of oil

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and gas and the right of the owner to take them as an incident
of title in fee to the surface of the earth, as said by the Supreme
Court of Indiana, is ultimately but a regulation of real property,
and they must hence be treated as relating to the preservation
and protection of rights of an essentially local character. Considering this fact and the peculiar situation of the substances,
as well as the character of the rights of the surface owners, we
cannot say that the statute amounts to a taking of private property, when it is but a regulation by the State of Indiana of a
subject which especially comes within its laivful authority.
Ajftrned.

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 2).
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 83. Argued December 18, 19, 1899. - Decided April 9, 1900.

The judgment below in this case is affirmed for the reasons given in Ohio
Oil Company v. Indiana, ante, page 190.

THIs case was argued with No. 84, ante, 190, and by the
same counsel.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant below was sued for the sum of certain penalties imposed by law for allowing gas to escape into the atmospheric air from an oil and gas well. The statute by which
the penalties were imposed is the one we have considered and
passed on in an opinion this day delivered in Ohio Oil Co. v. Thdiana, No. .84, of this term. Tie defendant demurred to the
complaint, and when the demurrer was overruled answered.
The answer alleged that the statute imposing the penalties
was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, on
the same grounds which we have to-day disposed of in the
case.referred to, From a judgment awarding the penalties,

