OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. SCHMIDT.
ERROR TO TIE COURT OF APPEALS OP THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
N0o.178.

Argued March.12, 13, 1900. -Decided April 9, 1900.

The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States does not control mere forms of procedure in
state
courts, or regulate practice therein; and all its requirements are complied
with provided that in the proceedings which are claimed not to have
been
due process of law, the person condemned has had sufficient notice,
and
adequate opportunity has been afforded him to defend.
The mere fact that in this case the proceeding to hold the Louisville
and
Nashville Company liable was by rule does not conflict with due process
under the Fourteenth Amendment, since forms of procedure in
state
courts are not controlled by that amendment, provided the fundamental
rights secured by the amendment are not denied.
Although the Louisville and Nashville Company appeared in response
to
the rule, pleaded its set-off, and declared that its answer constituted
a
full response, no defence personal to itself of any other character
except
the set-off was pleaded or suggested in any form, and this court
cannot
be called upon to conjecture that defences existed which were not
made,
and to decide that proceedings in a state court have denied due process
of law because defences were denied when they were not prosecuted.

THE three corporations directly or indirectly involved in this
controversy are the Northern Division of the Cumberland and
Ohio Railroad Company, the Louisville, Cincinnati and Lexington Railway Company and the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company. In order to abbreviate we shall refer to them
respectively as the Cumberland- and Ohio, the Cincinnati and
Lexington and the Louisville and Nashville.
On July 2, 1879, the Cumberland and Ohio mortgaged its
road to secure its certain negotiable bonds.
On July 28, 1879, the Cumberland and Ohio leased its road
for thirty years to the Cincinnati and Lexington. The lease
provided that if the earnings of the Cumberland and Ohio proved
inadequate to pay the interest on the bonds, secured by the
mortgage above referred to, 'the lessee, the Cincinnati and lex-

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. SCHMIDT. 231
Statement of the Case.

ington, would "supply the deficiency ao far as it may be done
by appropriating the net earnings, or so much as may be needed,
on its own lines, which may accrue by reason of business coming to it from or over said first party's line." The lease provided that the lessee, the Cincinnati and Lexington, should not
assign the contract without the consent of the lessor, the Cumberland and Ohio. Contemporaneously with the execution of
the lease and in order to secure the carrying out of the stipulation providing for the application of certain stated earnings of
the Cincinnati and Lexington to the payment of the interest on
the bonds of the Cumberland and Ohio, the former corporation
executed a mortgage in favor of the bondholders of the Cumberland and Ohio, hypothecating tie net earnings on the Cincinnati nd Lexington arising from business coming from the
leased line. Although the Cumberland and Ohio did not abandon its corporate life and preserved its formal existence, all its
railroad and appurtenances as a result of the lease passed from
its own to the control of the Cincinnati and Lexington.
In November, 1881, the Cincinnati and Lexington conveyedall its property to the Louisville and Nashville, and made to
the latter an assignment of the lease of the property of the
Cumberland and Ohio. Despite the fact that the assignment
of the lease was not approved by the original lessor, the Cumberland and Ohio, as provided in the lease, the Louisville and
Nashville took control of both the roads of the Cincinnati and
Lexington and Cumnberland and Ohio, and operated the same,
reaping all the revenues of every kind arising therefrom. In
1885, default having supervened in the payment of the interest
on the bonds of the Cumberland and Ohio, issued and secured
as above stated, the trustee under the mortgage commenced
proceedings against the Cincinnati and Lexington to enforce
the mortgage on net earnings derived from businaS of the
Cumberland and .Ohio. It is not denied that at the time the
action was commenced the fact of the transfer of' the property of the Cincinnati and Lexington and the assignment of
the lease of the Cumberland and Ohio to the Louisville and
Nashville was known to the trustee. However, the Cincinnati
and Lexington was the only party made defendant. The relief

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

sought was a discovery of the amount of net earnings, derived
from business coming from the Cumberland and Ohio, and a
decree for the amount, when ascertained, for the benefit of the
mortgage bondholders. A most protracted and hotly contested
lawsuit ensued. The question of earnings coming to the Cincinnati and Lexington from business over the Cumnberland and
Ohio was thoroughly explored by reports, expert examination
of books, testimony, etc., resulting in what is denominated by
counsel for the plaintiff in error in their brief as a " wilderness of figures." At last a final decree was entered fixing
the earnings which under the contract were attributable to the
mortgage creditors of the Cumberland and Ohio, at the sum
of $53,565.62, which the defendant was ordered to pay into
court with interest by a day stated. The sum not having been
paid a rule was taken on the defendant to compel performance,
and in response it was answered:
"That in 1881 it sold and conveyed, for a consideration paid
at the time, all its property, rights, privileges and franchises
except the mere franchise to exist, and that it distributed the
proceeds of such sale among its various stockholders, and since
said time it has had no property, assets or funds of any kind
with which to comply with the order of this court, and it is
therefore unable to pay said sum, or any other sum, for the
simple reason that it has no property or assets with which to
do it."
The sale referred to in this answer being that which had
been made by the Cincinnati and Lexington of all its property, including the assignment of the lease held by it from the
Cumberland and Ohio to the Louisville and Nashville. In reply to a rule taken on the defendant to report the amount of
net earnings which had accrued subsequent to the period embraced by the decree for $53,565.62, the defendant said:
"States and shows to this court that it has not made any net
earnings, or earnings of any kind, since the date aforesaid, on
business coming to it from or over the Cumberland and Ohio
road, nor has it made earnings of any kind, since it does not own
any railroad or property of any character whatever, and has not
since the date aforesaid."

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. SCHMIDT. 233
Statement of the Case.

Thereupon the plaintiff sought leave by an amended and supplemental petition to make the Louisville and Nashville a party
defendant to the cause. Among others the following averments were contained in the petition:
"Plaintiffs state that prior thereto the said Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company had purchased and acquired and at the
time of said conveyance held the capital stock of the said Louisville, Cincinnati and Lexington Railway Company, and as such
stockholder took and appropriated and has ever since enjoyed
the whole purchase price of the Louisville, Cincinnati and Lex.
ington Railway Company and all its said properties.
"Plaintiffs state that after the execution of said deed of November 1, 1881, said Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company
took possession of all the property of the Louisville, Cincinnati
and Lexington Railway Company aforesaid and of the property
leased, as aforesaid, to said company, including the Northern
Division of the Cumberland and Ohio Railroad Company aforesaid, and began to operate and has ever since operated said railroads and properties and taken and appropriated to its own use
the earnings thereof.
"Plaintiffs state that at all times since November 1, 1881,
said Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, subject to and
in accordance with the provisions of said lease and mortgage
and by virtue thereof, has operated the said Northern Division
of the Cumberland and Ohio Railroad and the said Louisville,
Cincinnati and Lexington Railway and properties, and has made
all the earnings mentioned and proved in the reports of the several commissioners in this case, and ascertained and adjudged in
the several judgments of this court, and finally adjudged in the
opinion and judgment of the Court of Appeals herein, all of
which said earnings were spoken of by witnesses and by the
courts aforesaid in said reports and judgments respectively as
the earnings of the Louisville, Cincinnati and Lexington Railway
Company.
"Plaintiffs further state that the Louisville and Nashville
Railroad Company at the time of its aforesaid purchase of the
railroad and properties of the Louisville, Cincinnati and Lexington Railroad Company actually knew all the provisions of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

lease, mortgages and .contracts set up in the original petition in
this suit, and actually applied net earnings accruing from said
operation of said properties therein referred to, in accordance
with said lease, mortgages and contracts, from the time of its
said purchase until the 1st day of April, 1883, and knew at all
times, including the time during which this action has been pending, that it had operated said railroad and all the other property of said Louisville, Cincinnati and Lexington Railway Company, and of the Northern Division of the Cumberland and Ohio
Railroad Company, and that it had received all the earnings
which were made by said properties, and understood and recognized that the earnings mentioned in the petition referred to
the earnings made in the operation of the railroad and properties of the Louisville, Cincinnati and Lexington Railway Coinpany and the Northern Division of the Cumberland and Ohio
Railroad Company, and filed the answer in this case inthe name
of the Louisville, Cincinnati and Lexington Railway Campany,
and filed all other papers which were filed herein on behalf of
the defence, and itself employed counsel in this case to make
defence in the name of the Louisville, Cincinnati and Lexington
Railway Company, and introduced all the witnesses who were
introduced on behalf of the defence of this action, and has been
in court defending this action and has controlled the defence
thereof continuously from the time the summons on the original petition was served in this case on Milton H. Smith, who
was its president, on the

-

day of --

, 1885, and from the

time the said Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company caused
the answer to said petition to be filed herein on the - day of
1886."
The leave to file was denied on the ground that it was too
late to do so after judgment. This oi'der, refusing to allow the
amendment, was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the State
of Kentucky. That court, however, in its opinion intimated
that the amendment was not necessary if the averments of the
supplemental and amended petition were true, and that under
the facts the Louisville and Nashville might be proceeded against
by rule to show cause. 99 Kentucky, 143. Following the path
thus pointed out by the Court of Appeals, a rule in the lower

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. SCHMIDT. 235
Statement of the Case.

court was applied for to compel the Louisville and Nashville to
pay the amount of the judgment. The court considered the
suggestion which had been made, in the opinion of the Court of
Appeals, as not binding on it, and hence declined to allow the
rule on the ground that the Louisville and Nashville not having
been named as a defendant in the proceeding could not be by
rule condemned to pay the judgment. The Court of Appeals
reversed the order of the trial court and directed the rule to
issue as prayed for. The court in effect held that as the affidavit by which the rule was supported in substance charged that
the Louisville and Nashville prior to and during the entire suit
had operated the roads from which the revenues accrued which
were in controversy, and that that corporation had in substance
volunteered in the cause to defend the same in the name of the
technical defendant; had carried on the defence through its own
counsel, had paid all the expenses of the litigation; the officers
of the corporation which was technically a defendant being the
officers of the Louisville and Nashville, therefore, the Louisville
and Nashville had had under the laws of Kentucky due notice
of the suit, and ample opportunity to defend, in fact had actually carried on the defence, and could hence be condemned by
rule to pay the judgment. The trial court thereupon entertained and issued the rule, which was served on the Louisville
and Nashville. That corporation for answer to the rule said,
among other things:
First. "That it is not a party to this suit. It has not been
named in dny pleading in the case as a party, and there is no
averment made in any pleading in the case against this respondent, or that is applicable to this respondent, and no judgment
or order has ever been entered in this case against this respondent, and no process has ever issued against or ever been served
on this respondent."
Second. "There has never been a time from the institution
of this suit up to this time when this respondent could, with
pkopriety, have filed an answer setting up its defences against
the alleged claim of the plaintiff, and to require it now to pay
into court upon this rule the amount stated in the rule, or any
other amount, would be to deprive this respondent of its prop-

OCTO3ER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

erty without due process of law, contrary to the Constitution of
the United States in such cases made and provided."
The answer then pleaded a set-off to the amount of $16,524.37,
which it was claimed the Louisville and Nashville should be
allowed if it was held bound to pay the judgment. The conclusion of the answer was as follows: "Wherefore having fully
responded, this respondent prays that the rule herein be discharged." The court, haying expressed in a careful opinion its
view that the Louisville and Nashville could not be condemned,
by rule, because it had not been a technical party to the record,

nevertheless, considering itself bound by the action of the Court
of Appeals, made the rule absolute, and entered a decree against
the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, condemning it to pay the
judgment, subject to the set-off which had been pleaded in the
answer to the rule, and this judgment was affirmed by the Court'
of Appeals of the State of Kentucky as a delay case. By an
allowance of a writ of error the cause is now here for review.
Ar. Helm Bruce and Ji&. James P. Helm for plaintiff in
error. Xr. HL 1J.Bruce was on their brief.
Hfr. John G. Sirra and Xr. Edmund F. Trabue for defendant in error. ill>. Temple Bodley, Mr. John C.Doolan, lr.
Benjamin F. WJ4asher and Jr. James S. Pirtle were on their

brief.
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
It is no longer open to contention that the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States does not control mere forms of procedure in state courts
or regulate practice therein. All its requirements are complied
with, provided in the proceedings which are claimed not to have
been due process of law the person condemned has had sufficient
notice and adequate opportunity has been afforded him to defend.
Iowa Central Railway v. Iowa, 160 U. S.389; Wilson v. NVorth
Carolina,169 U. S.586.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. SCHMIDT. 237
Opinion of the Court.

The claim of the plaintiff in error (the Louisville and Nashville) is that the decree rendered against it did not constitute
due process of law, first, because it had no notice of the suit, it
not having been summoned as a party defendant; and, second,
that as it was not made a nominal party 'defendant and served
with process as such, it had no adequate opportunity to make
defence. In support of the second contention various provisions
of the Kentucky law have been referred to in the argument,
from which it is deduced that the Louisville and Nashville would
have been without right in the proceeding brought, not against
it, but against the Cincinnati and Lexington, to make defences
which may have appertained and been relevant to the Louisville
and Nashville, and mig'ht not have related to the Cincinnati and
Lexington, the party defendant on the record. But the answer
to these contentions is that the necessary effect of the opinion
and decree of the court of last resort of Kentucky, is to hold,
first, as a matter of fact, that, although not a technical defendant, the Louisville and Nashville became voluntarily, in the
name of the Cincinnati and Lexington, the real, although not
the nominal, defendant in the cause, and during the long years
of this protracted litigation was in legal effect an actor in the
courts of Kentucky seeking, by every possible means, to defeat
the claim of the plaintiff. The conclusions of fact found by the
court of last resort of Kentucky are not subject to re~xamilation
by this court. Clearly, also, the inevitable result of the conelusion of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky is that it was the duty
of the Louisville and Nashville, having come in voluntarily in
the cause to defend its interest, under the name of the technical
defendant, if it had defences which were personal to itself, to
have made such an appearance on its own behalf as to enable it
to make them, and that the statutes of Kentucky not only authorized this course, but obliged the Louisville and Nashville to
have followed it.. Accepting as we do the interpretation placed
by the courts of last resort of Kentucky on the law of that
State, the contention of the .plaintiff in error is at once demonstrated to be without merit. Besides the conclusiveness of what
we have just said, there is another view which is equally decisive. The record shows no offer of any defence whatever, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the Louisville and Nashville, which was refused by the courts
below. On the contrary, every defence made is shown to have
been entertained, fully considered and to have been ultimately
.decided. The argument then reduces itself to this: That one
who has voluntarily appeared in a cause and actively conducted
the defence is to be held to have been denied, by the courts of
the State, the right to make a defence which was never presented. Moreover, even if we put out of view altogether all the
proceedings had in the original cause during the many years
when the suit was pending, and confine our attention solely to
the events which took place after the application for the rule to
show cause, on the Louisville and Nashville, the same conclusion
is rendered necessary. It is undoubted that the Louisville and
Nashville was made a party defendant to the rule in the most
technical sense, and was actually served. It made ansver and
asserted its set-off. The mere fact that the proceeding to hold
it liable was by rule does not conflict with due process under
the Fourteenth Amendment, for, as we have seen, forms of procedure in the state courts are not controlled by the Fourteenth
Amendment, provided the fundamental rights secured by the
amendment are not denied. But it is argued whilst it is true
the effort by rule to enforce responsibility for the judgment (lid
not violate the. Fourteenth Amendment, and service of the ride
was adequate notice, yet no opportunity to defend was afforded,
because all right to defend had been cut off by the previous
judgment. In effect it is asserted the rule summoned the corporation to show cause why it should not pay a judgment to
which, under the previous decree, there was no right on its part
to make any defence whatever. In other words, it is said the
right to proceed by rule was upheld by the Kefitucky court
because the Louisville and Nashvill6 was bound by the judgment and therefore the rule rested on an assumption which precluded the setting up of any defence to it. But the answer to
this argument is plain. Although the Louisville and Nashville
appeared in response to the rule, pleaded its set-off, and declared
that its answer constituted a full response, no defence personal
to itself of any other character, except the set-off, was pleaded
or suggested in any form whatever. The argument, therefore,

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. SCHMIDT.,239
Opinion of the Court.

asks us to say that the Louisville and Nashville in the proceeding in which it was duly served, and to which it responded and
as to which it had its day in court, was deprived of defences
which it never asserted, and that due process of law was not
administered to it because it was unheard in respect to matters
concerning which it made no claim. But this court cannot be
called upon to conjecture that defences existed which were not
made and to decide that proceedings in a state court have denied
due process of law because defences were denied, when they
were not presented. And especially must that be so where the
court of last resort of the State, on review of all the proceedings, has held that full opportunity to 'make every defence was
afforded. True it is that in Rees v. City of Watertowi, 19 Wall.
107, 123, it was said: "Whether in fact the individual has a
defence . . . isnot important. To assume that he has none,
and therefore that he is not entitled to a day in court, is to assume against him the very point he may wish to contest." But
this truism was stated with reference to a case where it was
argued that a condemnation without notice could be justified on
the assumption that if notice had been given no defence could
have been made. Manifestly, the principle can have no application to a case where there was notice, and the presumption
which we are asked to invoke is that although no defences were
pressed they may have possibly existed.
Affirmed.

