OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

CAFFREY v. OKLAHOMA TERRITORY.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 182. Argued March 13, 14, 1900-Decided April 9, 1900.

The plaintiff in error was county. clerk of Oklahoma County, Oklahoma
Territory. The territorial board of equalization increased the valuation
of property in the county, assessed for taxation, twenty-four per cent,
and officially notified him of their action. He refused to act upon the
notice, and a writ of mandamus was issued from the supreme court of the
Territory, to compel him to do so. He declined to obey the writ, was
cited for contempt, was adjudged guilty, and was committed to prison
until he should comply. There was no evidence, and nothing tending to
show that he had any pecuniary interest in the increase. The case being
brought here by writ of error and on appeal: Held, that as there was
nothing to show that the plaintiff in error aid appellant was interested
in the increase to the extent of five thousand dollars, therefore, under
the statute of March 3, 1885, c. 355, 23 Stat. 443, this court had no jurisdiction.

THE

case stated in the opinion.

Mr. John S. Flanneryand Mr. James 1?. JKeaton for plaintiff in error aid appellant.
fr. FrancisJ. Xearful was on
their brief.
Mr. Frederick C. Bryan for defendant in error and appellee.
lir. Ilagper S. Cunningham and Mr. Charles Dick were on

his brief.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of mandamus brought by the Territory of
Oklahoma on the relation of Harper S. Cunningham, attorney

general of the Territory, against Richard F. Caffrey, county
clerk of Oklahoma County.
The territorial board of equalization, composed of the Gov-

CAFFREY v. OKLAHOMA TERRITORY.
Opinion of the Court.

ernor, the territorial secretary and the auditor, increased the
assessed valuation of the property of Oklahoma County twentyfour per cent, and notified the plaintiff in error and appellant
thereof, as county clerk.
He refused to comply with the order, and this action was
brought in the supreme court of the Territory to cQnpel compliance therewith.
An alternative writ of mandamus was issued, to which he
made return and answer. In his return and answer he admitted
that he had been duly notified of the order of the board of equalization, and had failed to comply with it, and alleged that it
was illegal and void, because, first, the board had no jurisdiction or legal authority to make it; second, that it was not made
for the purpose of equalizing the valuation of property, but for
other and illegal purposes; that it was made arbitrarily, and
without evidence other than the assessment roll; that the valuation of the property of Oklahoma County, as shown by the
assessment roll, was fair and as high as the property of Potta..
watomie County, which the board took as the basis of equalization; that a large part of the property whose valuation was
increased consisted of money.
He also alleged that he was prevented from complying by an
order of the board of county commissioners.
He prayed " that he be granted a hearing in behalf of the taxpayers of his county in order that he may establish by competent
proof the allegations of fact hereinbefore set out, and that upon
a final hearing he have judgment against the relator for his
costs in this behalf laid out and expended."
A motion was made by relator to quash the answer and return,
which was granted, and on the 21st of September, 1898, judgment was entered granting a peremptory writ of mandamus
against the plaintiff in error and appellant.
Declining to obey the writ, he was cited for contempt, and
such proceedings were had on the citation that he was adjudged
guilty, and committed to jail until he should comply with the
writ, and the case was then brought here.
A motion is made to dismiss for want of jurisdiction in this
court, which we think should be granted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

It is provided by the act of March 3, 1885, that no appeal or
writ of error shall hereafter be allowed from any judgment or
decree in the supreme court of any of the Territories of the
United States, unless the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs,
shall exc6ed the sum of five thousand dollars, or unless the
validity of a patent or a copyright is involved, or a treaty or
statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States,
is drawn in question. 23 Stat. 443.
There is controversy between the parties, respectively supported by affidavits, whether the effect of the order of the territorial board of equalization is to increase the taxes of the
county $3179.27, or $28,751.87. But whether it is one sum or
the other, the plaintiff in error and appellant does not show that
he has any interest in it. He does not allege that he is a property owner or a taxpayer of the county. He alleges he is its
county clerk, and bases his resistance to the order of the territorial board of equalization upon his duty as such officer.
However this may have justified his action, of which we
express no opinion, or may have caused a dispute which the
territorial court had jurisdiction to pass on and determine, it
does not give us jurisdiction. To juktify our taking jurisdiction
there must be a controversy which involves pecuniary value
exceeding $5000 to the party appealing. In other words, there
must be a dispute which involves a sum in excess of $5000, and
such sum, or property of its value, must be taken from him by
the judgment which he seeks to review.
Colvin v. Jackson, 158 U. S.456, is in point. It was a suit in
equity to restrain the issue of bonds by the city of Jacksonville,
and was brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Florida. Colvin alleged that he was
a taxpayer, and that the amount of taxes that would be assessed
upon the property owned by him in the city would exceed two
thousand dollars. This was denied, and the complainant then
contended that not the amount of his taxes but the amount of
the bonds proposed to be issued, (one million dollars) was the
amount in controversy. The Circuit Court dismissed the case
for want of jurisdiction, and this court sustained the ruling,
saying by the Chief Justice that "the amount of the interest of

BLACK v. JACKSON.
Syllabus.

complainant, and not the entire issue of bonds, was the amount
in controversy, and, in respect to that, we have no doubt the
ruling of the Circuit Court was correct." El Paso Water Co.,
v. El Paso, 152 U. S. 157, was cited and approved.
In the pending action the plaintiff in error and appellant has
neither gained nor lost any money or money's worth by the
judgment of the supreme court of the Territory.
The writ of error and appeal are

Dismissed.
Richard F. Caffrey v. Oklahoma, No. 274.
Error to and appeal from the supreme court of the Territory of
Oklahoma. Counsel in this cause having stipulated that the same
judgment shall be entered in this case as in No. 182, the writ of error
and appeal are

Dismissed.

BLACK v. JACKSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TEtRRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 107. Submitted February 1, 1900.-

Decided March 26, 1900.

By a petition filed by Jackson against Black in the District Court of Kay
County, Oklahoma Territory, the following case was made: On the 17th
day of November, 1896, Jackson made a homestead entry upon the S.W.
sec. 26, T. 28, R. 2 east, I. Mvi. The same land prior to that date had
been embraced in a homestead entry made by Black, but that entry was
finally held for cancellation by the Secretary of the Interior, who by a
decision rendered October 26, 1896, denied Black's motion for review and
allowed Jackson to make entry of the land. After that decision Black
continued to remain in possession of the west eighty acres of the tra;ct,
and refused and neglected to vacate the same, although requested to do
so. He had upon the land a barbed wire fence and other improvements
attached to the realty. It was alleged that he was financially unable to
respond in damages for any injury he was causing the plaintiff by trespassing upon the land, and that plaintiff had no adequate remedy other
than by this suit. The relief asked was a mandatory injunction to restrain the defendant from entering upon or in any manner trespassing

