OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

judges of the court and there was an equal division, it was denied. Had this been otherwise, the court would not have
unanimously overruled the motion to amend the record so as
to make it appear that a rehearing had actually been granted.
Moreover counsel agree that under the rules of the court a
rehearing could not be granted unless one of the justices who
concurred in the judgment so desired, and a majority of the
court so determined, and that this was also true of permission
to argue such application. It is evident that oral argument
was allowed, and it also appears that no justice who concurred
in the judgment desired a rehearing, and that a majority of the
court did not determine to grant it.
The judgment of reversal therefore stood, and
As it was not a final judgment, the writ of error and the appeal must be dismi.sed, and it is so ordered.

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR TIIE TtIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 81. Argued December 13, 14, 15, 1899.-Decided March 26, 1900.
The Federal character of a suit must appear in the plaintiff's own statement
of his claim, and where a defence has been interposed, the reply to which
brings out matters of a Federal nature, those matters thus brought out
by the plaintiff do not form a part of his cause of action.
The treasury warrants in question in this case cannot be said upon the evidence to have violated the Constitution of the United States, or of the
State of Texas.
A warrant, drawn by the authorities of a State in payment of an appropriation made by the legislature, payable upon presentation if there be funds
in the treasury, and issued to an individual in payment of :a debt of the
State to him, cannot be properly called a bill of credit, or a treasury warrant intended to circulate as money.
A deliberate intention on the part of a legislative body to violate the organic law of the State under which it exists, and to which the members
have sworn obedience, is not to be lightly indulged; and it cannot prop.

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

67

. Statement of the Case.
erly be held that the receipt of the warrants issued in pursuance of legislative authority in Texas, and in payment of an indebtedness due the
State from the individual paying them, is an illegal transaction, and
amounts in law to no payment whatever.
When a muniaipality contracts for a municipal improvement, which it is
within its power to agree for, and engages to pay for the same in bonds
which it is )eyond its power to issue, anl the work so contracted for is
done, the municipality is responsible for it in money as it cannot pay in
bonds.
Where the validity of a contract is attacked on the ground of its illegal
purpose, that purpose must clearly appear, and it will not be inferred
simply because the performance of the contract might result in an aid to
an illegal transaction.
On the principles laid down in Baldy v. Hunter, 171 U. S. 388, the contract
in this case cannot be held to be unlawful.
When the officers of the State, pursuant to its statutes, received warrants
as payment, they acted for the State in carrying out an offer on its part
which the State had legal capacity to make and to carry out; and the
contract having been fully executed by the company and the State, neither
party having chosen to refuse to performn its terms, neither party, as between themselves can thereafter act as if the contract had not been performed.

Tnis proceeding was commenced by the State of Texas against
the defendant, the Houston and Texas Central Railroad Company, (hereafter called the company,) to recover the amount
'due on certain bonds issued to the State, and to foreclose the
lien which existed upon its property as security for the payment
of such bonds. The company is the legal successor of the two
companies which received the loans and gave their bonds, and
no question of liability arises on that ground. Judgment was
given in the trial court for the amount found due, and a lien was
declared and a sale of the property of the company ordered.
From this judgment the company appealed to the Court of Civil
Appeals for the State, where it was modified, and then affirmed.
The company brings the case here on writ of error.
The petition of the State by which the proceeding was commenced showed that the predecessors of the plaintiff in error
borrowed money from the school fund of the State and gave
their bonds therefor. These bonds were not paid according
to their tenor and effect, and the legislature therefore, on August 13, 1870, passed a general act for the relief of railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

companies indebted to the State, by which it was provided that
if any company should on the first day of November, 1870, pay
six months' interest on the aggregate amount of the loan, which,
on the first day of May, 1870, was due from it to the State, and
one per centum of the principal, and thereafter should make
similar semi-annual payments, the State would not exact any
other payments.
(What was the aggregate amount of the loans due on the first
of May, 1870, from the two companies of which the present
company is the successor, is the question in controversy, and
its answer depends upon the validity of certain payments made
by the companies to the State in treasury warrants during the
war. Part of the discussion rests upon the meaning and effect
of this act, and it is, therefore, given in full in the margin.)1
1An act for the relief of railroad companies indebted to the State for
loans from the Special School Fund.
Whereas, the political disturbances since the year 1860, by unsettling the
business of the country, have largely contributed to prevent compliance on
the part of railroad companies indebted to the State for loans from the special school fund, with their engagements respecting the payment of the principal and interest of said loans; and,
Whereas, it is desired to relieve said companies from the liability of their
railroads to sale consequent upon their non-compliance as aforesaid: Therefore,
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Texas, That any
railroad company indebted to the State for loans from tile special school
fund may avoid the sale of its railroad for the non-payment of principal or
interest by the payment into the treasury of the State, on the first day of
November, A. D. 1870, of six months' interest on the aggregate anlount due
on account of said loans, principal and interest, as said aggregate amount
stood on the first day of May, A. D. 1870, and by the payment, in addition,
on said first day of November of one per cent. upon said aggregate amount,
to be applied toward the sinking fund provided for by existing laws in respect to said loans, and by continuing to pay into the treasury of the State
six months' interest, and one per cent. on account of said sinking fund semiannually thereafter, to wit, on the first day of May and November in each
year.
SEC. 2. That if any railroad company shall fail to pay any amount required
to be paid in section one of this act at the time designated thereby, or within ten days thereafter, then the whole debt of such company, principal and
interest, shall become due, and the governor shall proceed without delay
to caube thQ railroad of said company and its franchises and property so

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

69

Statement of the Case.

Subsequently, semi-annual payments of interest and sinking
fund were made by or on account of the Washington County
Railroad Company, (one of the predecessors of the plaintiff in
error,) up to and including the first of May, 1879, but no payment was made on November 1, 1879, or at any time thereafter.
Similar payments were made by or on account of the Houston
and Texas Central Railway Company (the other of such predecessors) up to and including the first day of May, 1893, but a
portion only of the semi-annual interest claimed to be due in
November, 1893, was paid, and nothing has been paid since
November, 1, 1893. Judgment was prayed for the sums of
money stated to be due with interest, for the foreclosure of the
lien and for a sale of the property under execution, the proceeds
to be applied to the payment of the sum due with interest, and
for such other relief as might be necessary.
To this petition the defendant filed an answer, and therein
among other things alleged that after the commencement of the
civil war the various railroad companies were unable to fulfil
their obligations to the State, aid therefore the legislature of
Texas, on the eleventh day of January, 1862, passed an act for
their relief, extending the time of payment of interest and sinking fund amounts until the first of January, 1864.
far as the lien or mortgage of the State covers the same, to be sold, the sale
to be in all respects (when not in conflict with this act) conducted according to the provisions of the statute of August 13, A. D. 1856: Provided, however, That in case the governor should (for the protection of the school
fund) deem it necessary, lie may buy in any road to be sold under this act,
in the name of the State: Provided,further, That if the whole principal and
interest which may become due as aforesaid, and all costs attending the advertisements and proposed sale, shall be paid before the day of sale, then
the proceedings for sale shall be stopped.
Siec. 3. That the State of Texas will not exact of any railroad company
not hereafter in default in respect to any of the payments required in this
act the payment of the principal of the debt of said company, excepting
said payments on account of the sinking fund as aforesaid, but that any
company may pay the same in full at any time on thirty days' notice to the
governor, and that said lien or mortgage of the State shall not attach to
any extension of its existing road hereafter constructed by any of said companies.
SEc. 4. That this act shall take effect from and after its passage.
Approved, August 13, 1870, p. 85, e. 63.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The state legislature, on December 16, 1863, passed the first
act in relation to receiving treasury warrants from railroad
companies, c. 57, which reads as follo ¢s:
"SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Texas,
That the comptroller of the State be, and he is hereby, authorized to receive from the railroad companies in this State who
are indebted to the special school fund, all interest on their
bonds that may now be or hereafter become due, provided the
same is tendered in state bonds or in state treasury warrants,
previous to the meeting of the next regular session of the state
legislature.
"SEc. 2. That for all sums so paid in, the comptroller and
treasurer shall issue to the special school fund the bonds of the
State bearing 6 per cent. interest."
The legislature also passed another act on May 28, 1864-, c. 16,
which reads as follows:
"Sxc. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Texas,
That the provisions of the act of which it is amendatory shall
not apply to railroad companies that fail or refuse to receive
state bonds or state treasury warrants at par for freight or passage at the prices or rates established by law.
"SEc. 2. That whenever satisfactory evidence is produced or
furnished to the comptroller of the State that any railroad company has failed or refused to receive the state bonds or state
treasury warrants at par for freight or passage at the rates
established by law, he is required to refuse to receive the state
bonds or treasury warrants for the interest due by said railroad
upon its bond.
"SEC. 3. That the president of any railroad in this State be,
and is hereby, required to post in a conspicuous place in the
railroad offices and in the passenger cars the provisions and
terms of this act, under a penalty of $100, to be recovered for
the benefit of the State by suit before any court of competent
jurisdiction, upon information of any party."
On November 15, 1864, still another act was passed by the
legislature, c. 16, which reads as follows:
"Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Texas,
That the railroad companies of this State that are indebted

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

71

Statement of the Case.

to the special school fund shall continue to be allowed the,
privilege of paying the interest due said fund in the treasury
warrants and bonds and coupons of the State; and may also
discharge the whole or any part of the principal of their indebtedness to that fund (in the same rhanner) provided such
railroad companies shall satisfy the comptroller that the treasury warrants and bonds and coupons of the State are received
by them at par with specie for freight and passenger travel.
"That all treasury warrants and bonds and coupons of the
State, so received into the state treasury, shall be cancelled;
and the comptroller shall issue the bonds of the State, bearing
six per cent. interest to the special school fund for the amount
so paid in ; and this act take effect from its passage."
Upon the passage of these various acts and in reliance upon
the agreement and obligation of the State, as evidenced thereby,
the two companies acquired treasury warrants upon good consideration, and after the passage of the act of May, 1864, they
received treasury warrants at par in payment of freight and
passenger services rendered by them to the various people
who demanded the same, and they subsequently paid treasury
warrants to the comptroller of the State in payment of interest due on their indebtedness, (the amounts of such payments
are set forth in the answer,) and upon such payment and
receipt of the warrants by the comptroller and treasurer they
were cancelled as authorized and required by the above mentioned act, and thereupon the comptroller and treasurer issued
the bonds of the State bearing six per centum interest to the
special school fund for the amount so paid by the railroad
companies in treasury warrants. By reason of all which it
was alleged that a valid and binding contract between the
State and the railroad companies was made, that the payments in treasury warrants should be valid payments, at their
par value, upon the various loans made by the State to the
companies; and it was further alleged that the payments by
treasury warrants had been received by the authorities of the
State and cancelled, and a credit for the amount thereof as
payment given to the companies on the books of the State,
and that the transaction thereby became fully executed, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

the State could not thereafter dispute or question the validity
of such payments or the right of the company to the credits
given it by the State.
It was also alleged that after the passage of the act of August 13, 1870, and about the first of November, 1870, the comptroller of the State, with the concurrence and approval of the
governor, wrongfully and without authority of law, recharged
each of the railroad companies respectively upon the books of
the comptroller's office with the several amounts theretofore
paid by them respectively in treasury warrants, and there was
demanded from the respective companies on the first day of
November, 1870, six months' interest and one per centum for the
sinking fund on the aggregate amount of the loan, as made up
by the comptroller, after striking out the payments made by
the company with the treasury warrants. These amounts were
paid under protest, as being illegally demanded aid resulting
in a violation of the contract existing between the companies
and the State. Payments on the same basis were continued
semi-annually from that time, accompanied by a protest similar
to the one first mentioned, until, as the company contends, the
full amount due by it to the State had been paid, 'provided the
payments in treasury f4arrants were credited as valid payments.
Since that time the company has refused to make further payments. It claimed that the act of August 13, 1870, as construed
by the state authorities, impaired the obligation of the contract
existing between the State and itself, and thereupon it prayed
for judgment.
To this pleading the plaintiff filed its first supplemental petition, and therein specially set up that the three several acts of
the legislature of the State, mentioned in the defendant's answer as the authority for the payment upon the bonds of the
company in treasury warrants, were unconstitutional and void,
because (1) the warrants in which payments were authorized to
be made were issued for the purpose of being circulated as
money and were in violation of the state constitution; (2) also
because they were bills of credit emitted by the State, and therefore in violation of section 10 of article 1 of the Constitution of
the United States; and (3) because the acts under which the

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

73

Statement of the Case.

warrants were authorized to be paid, together with other acts
passed at or about the sane time, plainly indicated that the
treasury warrants and other obligations in which payments were
authorized to be made, and which were made by the defendant,
were issued in aid of the rebellion against the United States of
America, and were, therefore, void.
Upon these pleadings a motion was made by the company to
remove the case to the United States Circuit Court, on the
ground that by the filing of the plaintiff's last above mentioned
pleading it becane apparent for the first time, from plaintiff's
statement of its own claim, that the case was one arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States, and defendant
was therefore entitled to a removal. The motion was denied,
and although further pleadings were thereafter served on each
side, they are not material to the matters discussed in the opinion.
The case was tried without a jury, there being no dispute as
to the facts. The trial court held that the payments in treasury
warrants were illegal because they were issued to circulate as
money, in violation of the constitution of the State. It also
held that they were issued, or at least some of them were issued,
in direct aid of the rebellion and were therefore void ; that the
burden rested with the defendant to show, if it could, which, if
any, of the warrants were valid. Judgment was given in favor
of the State.
The company then appealed to the Court of Civil Appeals for
the Third Supreme Judicial District of the State, where the
judgment was modified so as to render no personal judgment
against the company, and to foreclose the lien of the State only
upon that part of the road which the findings showed was in
existence on August 13, 1870, and as thus modified it was affirmed, solely on the ground that the warrants were issued in
violation of the state constitution, as paper intended to circulate
as money. A writ of error was applied for to the Supreme
Court of Texas, and by that court refused. The company then
brought the case here by writ of error to the Court of Civil
Appeals. The defendant in error has made a motion to dismiss
the writ on the ground that this court has no jurisdiction, for
reasons stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

llr. John 0. Carlisle and 31Lr. fl. S. Lovett for plaintiffs in
error. MUr. J.P'. Blair and Air. 7axwell fEvar1s were on their
brief.
JMr. Charles A. Calberson, for defendants in error.
S. Smith and Mr'. X. . Crane were on the briefs.

Mr.T.

MR.JUSTICE PECKHAMi, after stating the foregoing facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The motion to dismiss the writ of error must be denied. The
case involves a Federal question under the contract clause of the
Constitution.
The claim on the part of the defendant in error, the plaintiff
below, is that the state court decided the case under the provisions of the state constitution only, and without.rererence to
the act of 1870, which the plaintiff in error (the railroad company) alleges to be an impairment of the contract set up by it
in the pleadings. Although the state court held that the payments in dispute were made by means of state treasury warrants
issued to circulate as money,, which were therefore void as in
violation of the constifution of the State, and that the delivery
of the warrants by the company amounted to no payment whatever, the question still remains whether by that decision any
effect was given to the act of 1870. We think the judgment of
the state court did give effect to theft act.
It will be seen that the third section provides that the State
will not exact of any railroad company, not thereafter in default, the payment of the principal of the debt, excepting as paid
by the payments due the sinking fund under the provisions of
the act; it also provides in the second section that if a railroad
company failed to pay the amount required to be paid in section
one, at the times designated thereby or within ten days thereafter, then the whole debt of such company, principal and interest, should become due, and the governor was directed to proceed
as therein stated.
The first thing to be done in order to be able to carry outthe
provisions of the act was to ascertain what the aggregate amount

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

75

Opinion of the Court.

of the loan was, as that amount stood on the first day of May,
1870, because it was upon that amount that interest semi-annually
was to be paid, and also one per centur of principal to the
sinking fund. The authorities of the State determined what
the aggregate amount was as it stood onr the first day of May,
18)70, and they arrived at that amount by refusing to recognize
as vaiid any payment which the company had made in treasury
Warrants, and in that way they made the aggregate amount
larger by those suns than that made by the coipany, Which
claimed to be credited with the amount of its payments in those
warrants. Upon the aggregate amount, as determined by the
authorities of the State, payment of the interest and for the
sinking fund was demanded under the act. This demand was
complied with by the company under: protest, and accompanied
by a claim on its part that the aggregate amount due on the
loan was less than that stated by the authorities of the State by
just the amount of -the payments which the company had made
in these treasury warrants. The protest was overruled and the
claim denied, and thereafter the same protest and the same
claim were made and the same action taken upon the part of
the state authorities, on each semi-annual occasion when payments were due and made. This lasted until the payments made
by the company in cash and in the treasury warrants, upon the
basis of the legality of the payments in such warrants, paid the
indebtedness (]n from the company to the State, and from that
time it has refused to make further payments. The State (lid
not acknowledge that full payment had been made of that indebtedness, and thereupon commenced the present proceeding
to recover the amount it claimed to be due and to foreclose its
lien against the company. This it could not do under the statute of 1870 unless the company had defaulted in respect to the
payments required under that act.
It is admitted that the company had not so defaulted, provided the payments in treasury warrants were duly credited to
it, nor is it denied on the other hand that if those payments
were not valid payments and ought not to be credited to the
company, then it had defaulted in respect to the payments required by the act before the commencement of these proceed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ings. When the state court, therefore, decided that these warrants were issued in violation of the constitution of the State,
and that payments in them were in fact and in law no payments,
.and gave judgment accordingly, the effect of that decision was
necessarily to hold that the company had defaulted in respect
to the payments required under the act, and that the proceedings of the State to collect the sum due were permitted by the
act, and effect was 'thus given to such act, although not one
word was spoken in regard to it in the opinion delivered in the
state court.
If the railroad company had not failed to pay any amount
required to be paid in section one of the act, then the proceeding herein could not have been taken, by reason of the provision contained in the third section, and it is only after a failure
to pay for ten days that the second section permits the proceedings to be taken to collect the amount. In giving judgment for
the plaintiff, therefore, the court has in effect determined that
the plaintiff was proceeding rightly under the act of 1870, and
effect was thus given to its provisions.
The judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals gives an additional effect to the act, because by its judgment there is struck
out the provision in the judgment of the trial court in regard to
the lien of the State, and it has limited that lien in accordaice
with the third section of the act, so that it should not attach to
any extension of the railroad which had been constructed since
its passage. Although that modification may be a favor to the
company, it nevertheless gives effect to the act. The company
has not accepted that act so that it cannot draw in question its
validity as construed by the state court, and hence no reason is
shown for the granting of the motion to dismiss on that ground.
The only acceptance consists in the payments made by the company to the State after its passage. The very first payment
made by the company, under the act, namely, on the first day
of November, 1870, was however made while asserting the claim
that payments in. treasury warrants were valid and should be
acknowledged and credited to the company, and upon the refusal of the state authorities to admit those payments the company paid the interest and percentage on the larger sum de-

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

77

Opinion of the Court.

manded by the ktate, under protest, that such demand was
illegal and improper, and every subsequent payment was made
under the same protest by the company. Payments so made
show no such acceptance of the act as to prevent the company
from thereafter drawing in question its wilidity as construed by
the state authorities.
Thus we see that, although the decision of the state court was
based upon the ground that the warrants in which these payments were made had been issued in utter violation of the state
constitution, and were hence void, and that no payments made
with such warrants had any validity, and although this ground
of invalidity was arrived at without any reference made to the
act of 1870, yet the necessary consequence of the judgment was
that effect was thereby given to that act, and in a manner which
the company has always claimed to be illegal and unwarranted
by the act when properly construed. The company has never
accepted such a construction, but on the contrary has always
opposed it, and raises the question in this proceeding at the very
outset. Upon these facts this court has jurisdiction, and it is
its duty to determine for itself the existence, construction and
validity of the alleged contract, and also to determine whether,
as construed by this court, it has been impaired by any subsequent state legislation to which effect has been given by the
court below. Bridge Proprietorsv. loboken Company, I Wall.
116; University v. People, 99 U. S. 309; Fisk v. Jefferson Police Jury, 116 U. S. 131; New Orleans Water Works (Jomp2any
v. Louisiana Sugar Refining Company, 125 U. S. 18; Central
Land Company v. Laidley, 159 U. S. 103, 109 ; Bacon v. .Texas,
163 U. S. 207, 216; McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102.
In this case we think we have shown that the judgment did
give effect to subsequent legislation which, as construed by the
state court, the company claims has impaired the obligation of
the contract between itself and the State. The writ of error
was therefore well brought.
The motion for the removal of this case to the United States
Circuit Court was properly denied. The stateinent of the cause
of action as contained in plaintiff's first petition did not show
that the suit was one arising under the Constitution, laws or
treaties of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The suit, as it appears upon the face of the petition of plaintiff, was upon the bonds given by the company for the loan of
a portion of the school fund, and to foreclose the lien of the
State upon the property of the company, and in the petition
reference was made to the act of 1870 for the purpose of stating the amount due on the bonds for principal and interest.
Nothing upoh the face of this petition showed any fact upon
which Federal jurisdiction could be based. The company answered by alleging certain payments in treasury warrants,
which, if properly credited, would show that with the other
payments that had been made there was nothing due the plaintiff on the bonds. As an answer to this defence the plaintiff
set up the invalidity of the laws providing for payments in
treasury warrants; that the warrants were issued by the State
in violation of both the state and Federal Constitutions, and
that the payments were therefore illegal and void. This was
no part of the plaintiff's cause of action upon which suit was
brought, and that cause of action did not in any way involve a
question arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States. The defendant,,therefore, made out no case for a re.
moval to the United States Circuit Court. Oregon &c. Railway Company v. Skdttowe, 162 U. S. 490, 494; Tennessee v.
Union & Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454; Galveston, Harrisburg &c. Railway v. Texas, 170 U. S. 226, 235.
The result of the authorities is that the Federal character of
the suit must appear in the plaintiff's own statement of his
claim, and that where a defence has been interposed, the reply
to which brings out matters of a Federal nature, those matters
thus brought out by the plaintiff do not form a part of his cause
of action, but are merely a reply to the defence set up by the
defendant. The review of the Federal question by this cort
is not thereby precluded, for it having been properly raised in
the state court and decided against the contention ,of the party
setting it up, this court may review it on error to the highest
court of the State.
This brings us to the question what, if any, contract existed
between the State and the company consequent upon the payments by the company to the comptroller of the State in the
treasury warrants heretofore mentioned.

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

79

Opinion of the Court.

The company contends that by the passage of the acts of
December 16, 1863, May 28, 1864, and November 16, 1864, and
by its compliance with such acts and its payment of treasury
warrants to the comptroller and their receipt by him and his
cancellation thereof, there was an executed transaction, and an
ilied contract thereupon arose that such payments should remain and be regarded as valid and effectual, and that this implied
contract was entitled to the protection of the Constitution of
the United States, and its obligation could -not be impaired by
any subsequent act of the legislature of the State.
These acts have been already set forth. The company alleges that it fully complied with all of them, and that relying
upon the offers thus made it paid to the State the warrants
mentioned, which were received by the comptroller and cancelled, and bonds of the State for a like amount, bearing six per
cent interest, were issued by him to the school fund.
The provision in the state constitution, which it is alleged
was violated by the issuing of these Warrants, is contained in
the eighth section of article seven of the constitution of 1845,
in which, among other things, it was provided,"
and in no case shall the legislature have the power to issue
treasury warrants, treasury notes or paper of any description
intended to circulate as money." The same provision is found
in the constitution of Texas adopted in 1861.
It is contended on the part of the State that these warrants
were issued in violation of that section of the constitution, inasmuch as they were treasury warrants intended to circulate as
money.
It is stated in the opinion, delivered in the Court of Civil
Appeals, "that the warrants of the State, issued during the
period of the war after January 1, 1862, were intended to be
used and circulated as money, and in this connection it is well
to say that we are of the opinion, from all that it is shown by
the record, together with various acts of the legislatures during
that time, that the payments made in warrants by the railway
companies upon the obligations sued upon were in warrants
issued after the time we have deolared they were intended to
circulate as money,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The question whether the legislature so intended is one to be
decided by an inspection of the act under which they were issued, and possibly by reference to the text of other acts of the
legislature enacted at or about the same time. Whether an act
provides for the issuing of warrants that were intended to circulate as money is in reality a question of law arising upon the
construction of the legislative act, and a finding by the court
that warrants issued under and by virtue of certain acts of the
legislature were issiied with such intention is in the. nature. of
a legal conclusion and not a finding of fact, and therefore it
can be reviewed by this court.
To prove that these warrants were so issued, reference is made
to various acts of the legislature, (in addition to those above
mentioned under which the payments were made by the company,) among which are the following:
The act approved February 14, 1860, which provided that
when an account was presented for payment for which an appropriation had been made it was the duty of the comptroller to
audit it if legal and to issue his warrant for the amount, and if
there were any money in the treasury to pay the demand the
comptroller was directed to issue his warrant upon the treasurer for the amount with ten per centum per annum interest,
and those warrants were to be signed by the governor and indorsed by the treasurer The act further provided that these
warrants should not circulate as money, but might be assigned.
It is said that the warrants issued under this act were few, and
they are not classed among the warrants in which any payments
were made to the school fund. It is, of course, not contended
that these warrants were intended to circulate as money, but
the act was repealed in 1862, and the repealing act, while containing other provisions, omitted the provision" that the warrants
to be issued should not circulate as money, and that omission is
regarded by counsel as suggestive of the intention of the legislature that the warrants issued under the act of 1862 should so
circulate.
By the second section of that act it was provided that the
comptroller on presentation of any warrant bearing interest, as
well as on presentation of any other legal claim for which an

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

81

Opinion of the Court.

appropriation had been made, should draw a warrant on the
treasury for the amount, and payment was to be made if there
were any money in the treasury; but, if not, the comptroller
was authorized to issue one or more warrants for the amount
that might be due and payable to the party entitled to payment,
or bearer, "and said warrants shall be of such proportions of
the claim as may be expressly required by the holder; provided,
that not more than one tenth of the whole amount may be issued
in warrants of one dollar each and the balance of five dollars or
more each, and said warrants shall be indorsed by the treasurer,
and every interest-bearing warrant that is superseded shall be
cancelled by' the comptroller."
The third section of the act provided that when the warrants
were presented at the treasury and paid they should be cancelled, and should not be reissued.
* By the act of January 11, 1862, it was provided that treasury
warrants, not bearing-interest, in addition to the other provisions
rrfade for their reception in payment for lands, (including certificates therefor,) should -be receivable as money in the payment of office. fees, includiig, fees for, patents and land dues
payable in the generar land office, taxes and all other dues to be
collected for the State or in its name, with exceptions therein
stated.
By another act passed on the same day, January 11, 1862,
(General Laws, Texas, 1862, page 38,) the treasurer and every
other officer of the State and of counties who had received as
public money, among other things, the treasury warrants of the
State, were directed to disburse or transfer the same as money,
at par, if the person or persons entitled to have a disbursement
or transfer would receive such warrants as money, and officers
who were authorized to receive public money were authorized
and directed to receive these warrants as money, except when
expressly prohibited by some other law. Treasury warrants
of the State received by the treasurer thereof were not to be reissued.
Also on December 16, 1863, another act was passed, c. 60,
section 2 of which reads as follows :
"A tax of one half of one per cent. shall be levied and colVOL. CLXXvii-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

lected in kind on all specie, treasury notes of the Confederate
States of America, treasury warrants of the State of Texas, and
bank notes, held or owned within this State, and all foreign bills
of exchange and certificates of deposit, and other evidences of
money upon deposit or secured beyond the limits of the State,
owned by persons residing therein, shall be known as specie, and
thereon shall be levied and collected a tax of one half of one
per cent. in specie."
The court below has construed these various acts, in connection " with well-known matters of history relating thereto," and
considering also the character of legislation during the period
of the war, as establishing the intention of the legislature that
the warrants should circulate as money. It is stated in the
opinion that the legislation, providing the purpose for which
they could be used and the small amounts for which they
could be issued, and also the size, shape and color of the warrants, together with the history of the times and the well-known
depleted condition of the treasury during that period, and
the scarcity of existing, reliable and available circulating medium, as money, all showed that the purpose of the various acts
of the legislature was to give to the warrants issued during that
time as much as possible a standing and character as money.
The court therefore held that the warrants were void, as issued
in violation of the constitution of the State; the payment made
in them was in law no payment; that no contract arose between
the State and the company by reason of the use made of the
warrants in surrendering them to the comptroller, and that,
therefore, no defence to plaintiff's cause of action was established.
These warrants were issued pursuant to appropriations made
by the legislature and in payment of debts existing at the time
in favor of the individuals to whom they were delivered. They
were payable at once, and if there had been funds of the State
in the treasury they would have been immediately paid and
cancelled. It was only because there was no money in the
treasury that they were not paid. The State therefore provided that they might be received in payment of taxes or dues
to the State, and that its officers might disburse them in pay-

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

83

Opinion of the Court.

ment of its debts to any person who would consent to receive
them, but that when presented to the treasurer of the State and
received by him they should be cancelled.
We have been referred to no act making provision for the
size, shape or color of the paper to be used for the warrants,
and such size, etc., cannot be regarded as evidence of any weight
as to the intent on the part'of the legislature that they should
circulate as money, nor does th.e depleted condition of the treasury or the scarcity of a circulating medium necessarily or properly induce to that conclusion. That the size of the warrant,
both as to amount and shape, might somewhat facilitate a holder,
upon occasion, to discharge a debt, and in that way use it as
money, is not at all sufficient or indeed any proper evidence of an
unlawful intent on the part of the legislature. Irhreact of Deceinber 16, 1863, is not the slightest evidence on the subject. It
simply provided for taxing specie, treasury notes of the Confederate States, treasury warrants of the State, and bank notes
held or owned in the State. It also provided a tax upon foreign
bills of exchange and other evidences of money on deposit or
secured beyond the limits of the State and owned by persons
residing therein, and provided that they should be. known as
specie. The fact that treasury warrants were mixed up in such
an act for the purpose of taxation with specie, bills of exchange,
certificates of deposit, etc., has not the slightest tendency to
prove the intent that the warrants should cirlculate as money.
It does not seem to us that this legislation shows that the
warrants were thus issued within the meaning either of the
state or the Federal Constitution. The only provision looking
towards a treatment of the warrants in any manner as money
is the direction to the State's own officers to r-ceive them as
payment for taxes and dues to the State, and to pay them as
money to such persons as would receive them in payment of the
indebtedness of the State to them.
The fact that a creditor of the State, willing to receive payment in these warrants, might demand that they should be
issued to him in small suns, and not in one single warrant, does
not bear with great force upon the intent of the legislature that
the warrants should thereafter circulate as money. It does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

show that those warrants were intended to so circulate between
individuals for the ordinary purposes of society and in the general transactions of business between citizens. For the State to
say that the warrants should be transferred or disbursed by its
own officers, as money, if the person entitled to a transfer or
disbursement from the State would receive them as money,
simply amounts to a declaration that the warrants should be
issued to all such persons as would accept them in payment of the
debts due them from the State. To encourage such willingness
the provision was made that these warrants should be receivable
as money, that is, as payment for certain debts due the State,
as for taxes, etc. This use of the words "as money" has, in our
judgment, no further significance, and has no force for the purpose of showing the intention of the legislature to have the
warrants circulate generally as money and to form a circulating
medium of that kind of paper.
It must not only be that they are capable of sometimes being
used instead of money, but they must have a fitness for general
circulation in the community as a representative and substitute
for money in the common transactions of business. This is
what is meant by the expression "intended to circulate as
money." These warrants were payable to the individual
to
whom the State was indebted, or to bearer, and were issued to
a creditor of the State. That the legislature may have desired
to facilitate the use of the warrants by these provisions is perhaps true. But the members of the legislature knew that to
issue the warrants to circulate as money would be to condemn
them from the start. That the promise should be made to receive them in payment of debts due the State would add to
their usefulness and to the willingness of people to take them
in payment of debts due them from the State, and that while
in their hands others might receive them in payment of debts
was a possibility or probability depending upon whether the
person taking them had opportunity to use them to pay some
of his own debts to the State. That he might on some occasion
be able to so use the warrant as to enable him to thereby discharge an obligation from himself to a third person who was
willing to accept it does not bring the warrant so used within

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

85

Opinion of the Court.

the ordinary meaning of the term money. It is not money in
that sense.
The provision in the state is substantially the same as that
in the Federal Constitution, in that the legislature is prohibited
from issuing treasury warrants, treasury notes or paper of any
description intended to circulate as money, while in the Federal
Constitution the prohibition is against a State's emitting bills
of credit, and the necessity exists in both that the paper shall
be issued to circulate as money, in order to be in violation of
either instrument. It has been held that the bills of credit prohibited by the Federal Constitution are those which were intended to circulate as money, and hence the authorities as to
the meaning of that expression, when so used, are applicable
here.
In Craig v. State of Missouri, 4 Pet. 410, Chief Justice Marshall, in referring to the meaning of the clause in the Constitution prohibiting a State from emitting bills of credit, said
(page 432):
"The word ' emit' is never employed in describing those contracts by which a State binds itself to pay money at a future
day for services actually received, or for money borrowed for
present use; nor are instruments executed for such purposes,
in common language, denominated ' bills of credit.' To ' emit
bills of credit,' conveys to the mind the idea of issuing paper
intended to circulate through the community for its ordinary
purposes, as money, which paper is redeemable at a future day.
This is the sense in which the terms have been always understood."
It is true the court in the Craig case held that the certificates
authorized by the State of Missouri were void, because they
were in effect bills of credit. They were issued on account of
loans made from time to time to the State, and were held to
have been issued to circulate as money. The court then consisted of seven members, and Mr. Justice Johnson, Mr. Justice
Thompson and Mr. Justice McLean did not concur in the judgment. Mr. Justice Johnson thought that the term did not extend to certificates that bore interest and the value of which
varied with each passing day; that they approximated to bills

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

drawn upon a fund, not to be withdrawn by any law of the
State; that the promise was also to receive in payment of debts
and taxes due the State, and the certificates did not depend for
value upon the faith of the State only, and hence they were not
bills of credit.
Mr. Justice Thompson thought they were not bills of credit
for the reason, among others, that the act did not profess to
make them a circulating medium or a substitute for money; it
made them only receivable for taxes, etc., due the State, and
those were special and limited objects not sufficient to enable
the certificates to answer the purpose of a circulating medium
to any considerable extent.
Mr. Justice McLean thought that to constitute a bill of credit
it must be issued by a State, and its circulation as money enforced by statutory provisions. At page 454 he said: "Where
a warrant is issued for the amount due to a claimant, which is
to be paid on presentation to the treasurer, can it be denominated a bill of credit ?" He thought not.
In the subsequent case of Briscoe v. Bank of 'n tacky, 11
Pet. 257, the same question as to the meaning of the term bills
of credit arose, and ir. Justice McLean delivered the opinion
of the court.
The question was whether bank notes issued by the Bank of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky, declared by the state act of
incorporation to be exclusively the property of the Commonwealth, were bills of credit. In the course of the opinion the
judge stated, page 312: "The terms bills of credit in their mercantile sense comprehend a great variety of evidences of debt,
which circulate in a commercial country. . . . But the inhibition of the Constitution applies to bills of credit in a more
limited sense. It would be difficult to classify the bills of credit
which were issued in the early history of this country. Tliey
were all designed to circulate as money, being issued under the
laws of the respective colonies."
Reference is made in the course of the opinion to Craig v.
Mifssouri (sipa),and to the views of the two dissenting judges
(besides himself) as to the meaning of the expression, and he
ends the discussion of that part of the question by referring to

HO0USTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

87

Opinion of the Court.

what Chief Justice Marshall had said, and adding: "The definition, then, which does include all classes of bills of credit
emitted by the colonies or States, is a paper issued by the sovereign power containing a pledge of its faith and designed to
circulate as money."
It was held that the bank notes in question did not fill that
definition. In Woodruff v. Trapnall, 10 How. 190, 205, the
question was again referred to by Mr. Justice McLean in delivering the opinion of the court, and he said that the notes of the
banks therein mentioned were not bills of credit, upon the authority of the Briscoe case. To the same effect is Darrington
v. Bank of Alabama, 13 How. 12, the opinion being also delivered by Mr. Justice McLean. The State creating the bank in
that case was the only stockholder, and its credit was pledged
for the ultimate redemption of the notes of the bank.
The court said it was impossible to hold that bills issued by the
bank came within the definition of bills of credit. Briscoe v. The
Bank (supra)was again referred to and the definition approved,
that the paper must be issued by a State, upon its faith, designed
to circulate -as money, and to be received and used as such in
the ordinary business of life.
In Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270, 283, the coupons
in question were in the ordinary form, and one of them was
set out in the opinion of the court, and is as follows:
"Receivable at and after maturity for all taxes, debts and
demands due the State.
"The Commonwealth of Virginia will pay the bearer thirty
dollars interest, due 1st January, 1884, on bond No. 2731.
"Coupon No. 20.
GEo. RYE, Treasurer."
It was contended that this coupon was a bill of credit in the
sense of the Constitution, because receivable in payment of debts
due the State, and negotiable by delivery merely and intended
to pass from hand to hand and to circulate as money.
It was in consequence of unrestrained issues of paper money
by the colonial and state governments, based alone upon credit,
said the court, that this clause in the Constitution prohibiting
the emission of bills of credit by the States was adopted, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the proper definition of the term was not founded on the abstract meaning of the words so as to include everything in the
nature of an obligation to pay money, reposing on the public
faith and subject to future redemption, but was limited to those
particular forms or evidences of debt that had been so abused
to the detriment of both private and public interests.
Speaking of these particular coupons the court said:
"They are issued by the State, it is true. They are promises
to pay money. Their payment and redemption are based on
the credit of the State, but they were not emitted by the. State
in the sense in which a government emits its treasury notes, or
a bank its bank notes-a circulating medium or paper currency
-as a substitute for money. And there is nothing on the face
of the instruments, nor in their form or nature, nor in the terms
of the law, which authorizes their issue, nor in the circumstances
of their creation or use, as shown by the record, on which to
found an inference that these coupons were designed to circulate, in the common transactions of business, as money, nor that
in fact they were so used."
The fact that the coupons were receivable in payment of
taxes, and other dues to the State, and hence might circulate
from hand to hand as money, was held to fall far short of
showing their fitness for general circulation in the community
as the representative and substitute for money in the common
transactions of business, which the court held was necessary to
bring them within the constitutional prohibition against bills
of credit. This reasoning applies with equal force to treasury
warrants. Both classes of paper must be intended to circulate
as money, and the same conditions regarding such intention
and the same evidence to prove it would be necessary in each
case.
In the light of these authorities, it seems to us that it cannot
be properly said that the treasury warrants violated the Constitution, either of the State or of the United States, because
there is no evidence that they were intended to circulate as
money within the meaning of that term as already given. The
record does not show that the legislature intended that these
warrants should or that they could be so used as to circulate

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

89

Opinion of the Court.

among the people as money, to be used by them as a paper currency or a circulating medium in their dealings with each other.
Small denominations of the warrants would certainly facilitate
their retirement through their use for payment of taxes and
other debts due the State, and would increase their convenience
for paying freight or passenger fare to the companies, which
would then havp an opportunity to present them to the State,
in payment of interest, and as the laws did not provide for their
circulation as money, but only to be received or paid by the officers of the State between the State and its debtors and creditors and to the railroad companies, as stated, it cannot be supposed from such evidence that it was the intention of the legislature that these warrants should be circulated as money, and
should thus violate the provisions of the Constitution.
A warrant drawn by the state authorities in payment of an
appropriation made by the legislature, where the warrant' is
payable upon presentation, if there be funds in the treasury,
and which has been issued to an individual in payment of the
debt of the State to him, cannot as it seems to us, be properly
called a bill of credit or a treasury warrant intended to circulate
as money. Although the State directed its officers to receive
the warrants as money, in payment of certain dues to the
State, and to deliver them to those who would receive them
as money in payment of dues from the State to such persons,
yet, as we have already remarked, this direction was only another mode of expressing the idea that, as between the State
and the individual, the delivery of the warrant should operate
as a payment of the debt for which the delivery was made.
When the warrants once came back to the treasurer of the
State, they were not to be reissued. The decisions of this
court have shown great reluctance, under this provision as to
bills of credit, to interfere with or reduce the very important
and necessary power of the States to pay their debts by delivering to their creditors their written promises to pay them on
demand, and in the meantime to receive the paper as payment
of debts due the State for taxes and other like matters.
If any fair doubt could arise, it should be solved in favor of
the validity of the paper. There must be an intention *on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

part of the legislature that the paper should circulate as
money. There must, in other words, be an intention to violate the constitution.
A deliberate intention on 'the part of a legislative body to
violate the organic law of the State under which it exists and
to which the members have sworn obedience, is not to be
lightly indulged. The existence of such intention should be
proved beyond doubt or cavil from the very acts themselves
which are under discussion, and if it be reasonably possible
to so construe them as to render them valid, a proper respect
for the legislative department calls for such construction
rather than one which invalidates them, because they were
enacted with a direct purpose to violate the state constitution.
But if for the purpose of this argument it should be assumed
that the warrants, although issued to those who were the creditors of the State and in payment of the debts due from the State
to those creditors, were nevertheless issued to circulate as money,
and therefore in violation of the constitution, it cannot be properly held, in our opinion, that the receipt of such warrants pursuant to legislative authority and in payment of an indebtedness
due the State from the individual paying them is an illegal
transaction and amounts in law to no payment whatever.
The State was debtor to the individuals to whom the warrants were first issued in payment of that indebtedness, and
all that can be said is that it violated the law by giving this
particular form to the instrument by which it assumed to pay
its debt. Surely if for that reason the delivery of the warrants constituted no payment, the State would have the right
to make such payment in some other way. If, by reason ot
the violation of the constitution, its direction to the treasurer
to pay the warrant was void, and no action could be maintained upon the warrant, by reason of its invalidity, (aside
from the fact that the State would not be suable,) there is certainly nothing to prevent the State from recognizing the debt
it actually owed, and which it assumed to pay by issuing these
warrants. That recognition may be contained in the very law
which authorizes their issue or in some other law. When, therefore, it passed the statutes providing that the warrants should

HOUSTON AND TIFXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

91

Opinion of the Court.

be received in payment of taxes and other dues to it, and also
by the comptroller in payment of the interest and sinking fund
due from the railroad companies to the State, and when by virtue-of such authority the state officers actually did receive the
warrants for such payments, we see no illegality in the payments, and it seems to us that credit therefor should be given
accordingly.
Suppose that the State, intending to issue these warrants to
circulate as money, had paid them througi its officers to its
creditors, and had then become convinced that the warrants
were a violation of the constitution of the State and ought not to
have been issued. Could not the State say to the creditors to
whom these warrants had been paid, if you will give them back
we will pay you in a form that is not a violation of the constitution? Would anybody suspect that surrendering these warrants to the State and receiving other warrants in their stead,
in a form which did not violate the constitution, would be an
illegal act on the part of the State? The original warrants
having been issued to various creditors of the State, and they
very 'likely having transferred them to others, wherein would
consist the illegality if the State offered to and did receive those
warrants from such others and paid their amount in valid obligations? Instead of paying their amounts in valid obligations,
where is the invalidity if the State offers to receive them and
to cancel obligations which the party owes to it to an amount
equal to their face value? All this is but another way of paying the indebtedness which the State originally owed to the
individuals to whom it issued these warrants, and when it caneels obligations due to it of an amount which equals the face
value of the warrants, and receives the warrants in return, the
legal effect is the same as if the warrants had never been transferred by the persons to whom they were originally issued, and
they had brought them back to the State, and the State had
given in exchange for them some valid evidence of indebtedness.
It seems to us that the same principle is involved as was enforced in Iitchcock v. Galveston, 96 U. S. 341, 350, where a city
had contracted with the plaintiffs for the improvement of its
sidewalks, and agreed to pay for the same in bonds which it

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

was beyond the power of the city to issue. It was held that
the invalidity of that promise was no reason why the city should
not pay for the benefits which it had received from the performance of the contract. The court said: "If payments cannot be
made in bonds because their issue is Ultra vires, it would be
sanctioning rank injustice to hold that payments need not be
made at all."
Suppose in that case the bonds had been issued by the city in
violation of its charter? Could not the city thereafter, upon
discovering its inability to make such a contract, receive the
bonds back and make payment in some other way,? Or could
it not have received the bonds as a payment to that extent of
an indebtedness due from their holder to the city ?
Unless such transactions be legal, then it follows that the
State could obtain the property or labor of the individual and
pay therefor in an obligation which it had no right to issue, and
which it could on that account subsequently repudiate and then
deny all liability to pay at all. The character of the transaction is not altered by the transfer of these warrants from the
original holder to other parties, and the State has full power to
recognize in favor of the bearer of the warrants, the validity of
the debt which they originally represented, and to pay the same
by allowing a credit to their bearers up to the value of the warrants. We see nothing in morals or in law which should prevent the State from recognizing and liquidating the indebtedness
which was due from it and which was represented by the warrants.
The other theory would prevent the State from ever redeeming warrants in form invalid, but which had been issued in payment of debts due from the State to persons receiving them.
If payments such as were made in this case were not valid,
but absolute nullities, then any person who used the warrants
to pay his taxes with, although they were received by the collector and an acquittance given, was nevertheless liable to pay
those taxes again. Such consequences ought not to follow from
the fact that the form of the warrant in which the payment
was made rendered the warrant itself illegal as issued in violation of the Constitution.

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

93

Opinion of the Court.

Their receipt by the state officers from the railroad compiany
as directed by the legislature is also justified, as appears by the
case of Little Rock v. National Bank, 98 U. S. 308. This court
held that even if the bonds mentioned therein were issued in
violation of law, yet when the city accepted their surrender and
redeemed them by giving other bonds in lieu of a portion and
a credit on the books of the city for another portion of them so
surrendered, such transaction wvas valid, and the holder of the
bonds so given in lieu of the illegal ones, could recover on them,
and also upon the credit given on the books of the city. We
perceive no reason why the State could not, if it chose, receive
these warrants in discharge of the debt pro tanto due it from
the company.
The next question is whether the payments made are void
because the warrants were issued, as alleged, in aid of the rebellion.
If by reason of any fact existing at the time these transactions
occurred, and which appears in this record, the payments in
question were not valid, and no valid contract grew out of the
same, then the judgment should be affirmed, notwithstanding
we differ with the court below in regard to the effect of the
payment on the ground taken by that court. Until we are able
to say there was a valid contract subsisting by reason of these
transactions, by which payments were received as payment pro
tanto of interest and sinking fund, we cannot be called upon to
discuss the question whether any legislation subsequent to the
making of the alleged contract has impaired its obligation. We
must, therefore, pursue the inquiry in order to determine the
existence and validity of the contract.
It is alleged that at least some of these warrants were issued
in aid of the rebellion and were therefore void, and no attempted
payments made in them could be recognized as legal or binding.
Various acts of the legislature have been referred to which provided for the issuing of bonds in return for loans to the State
for military purposes. The findings of the trial court upon the
subject were as follows:
"I find that it has not been proved whether the warrants
actually used in making the payments were warrants issued for

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

indebtedness incurred prior to the civil war or warrants issued
for the State indebtedness incurred after the war began, or if
of the latter class whether they were warrants issued for mili-

tary purposes or for civil indebtedness, but from the circumstantial evidence I conclude that neither the railroad company
nor the State discriminated as to the class of warrants the railroads received for carrying services or paid on their indebtedness, and that some of all kinds were used in making the payments.
"In reaching the foregoing conclusions of fact I have excluded
from my consideration the statements made in official reports
and governors' messages to the legislature, having concluded
that defendant's objections that the statements contained in
these papers were not admissible as evidence proving or tending to prove the facts therein stated, were good. I have also
eliminated from co-nsideration certain other evidence, as shown
by explanations attached to defendant's bills of exception."
Taking these findings, it seems that some of the warrants had
been originally issued for military purposes, while others had
been issued for civil indebtedness. It is also to be inferred from
the record that the warrants were in the bands of various people,
residents in the State, from whom they had been purchased by
the company for a fair and adequate consideration, or had been
received by it at par in payment of freight or passenger services
over its lines~of road. Assuming that the warrants were invalid
as having been issued in payment for services rendered, or stores
received for use in aid of the rebellion, yet this contract between
the State and the company had no connection with the purpose
for which they were issued, nor was the consideration of the
contract based in the remotest degree with reference to that
purpose. The warrants were issued to other persons having not
the slightest relation to the company, and in payment of an indebtedness for purposes to which the company was an entire
stranger. The purpose of the company was undoubtedly, pursuant to the offers of the State made in the acts mentioned, to
use the warrants in payment of what might be due for principal
or. interest on the bonds of the company held by the State.

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

95

Opinion of the Court.

There is no proof that the company received the warrants for
any other purpose. No inference could properly, as we think,
be drawn from the evidence that there was any intent, design
or wish on its part to aid the rebellion by the acquisition of
these warrants and so far as can be seen, it was a transaction in
the way of the business of the company, entered into for the
simple purpose of paying an indebtedness which it owed the
State, and which, by these acts, the State permitted to be paid
in this way. Even though portions of the warrants had been
procured at less than par, of which fact there is no affirmative
evidence, still the transaction on the part of the company did
not thereby become one in aid of the rebellion, and upon this
point we do not see that the prices which may have been paid
for the warrants were material in the inquiry. The contract
between the State and the company did not in any way aid the
former in issuing them, nor did it aid the purpose for which the
State may have desired to issue them.
Where the validity .of a contract is attacked on the ground
of its illegal purpose, that purpose must clearly appear, and it
will not be inferred simply because the performance of the contract might possibly result in a remote, incidental and unintentional aid to an illegal transaction.
It is somewhat difficult to see how" the offer to receive these
warrants and their reception pursuant to the offer can be said
to be illegal as based upon a consideration which looked to aiding the rebellion by its performance.
It has been held that a contract between parties resident
within the lines of insurrectionary States stipulating for payment in Confederate notes, issued in furtherance of a scheme
to overturn the authority of the United States within the territory dominated by the Confederate5 States, was not to be regarded for that reason only as invalid. Contracts thus made,
not designed to aid an insurrectionary government, it was held,
could not therefore, without manifest injustice to the parties,
be treated as invalid. Thorington v. Swith, 8 Wall. 1; Delmas
v. Insurance Co., 14 Wall. 661.
The receipt of these warrants, like the contract to receive
payment in Confederate notes, was not for that reason only

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

unlawful, although the State was the party that received them.
The company was not an agent of the State in putting them
in circulation, nor is there any proof that in fact it circulated
any of them. The company did not take them for the purpose
of giving currency to them, but in order to consummate a transaction which, when consummated, was simply a business one
on the part of the company, and if by any possibility it could
"indirectly or remotely promote the ends of the de facto government organized to effect a dissolution of the Union, it was
without blame, except when proved to have been entered into
with actual intent to further invasion or insurrection." iTflwington v. Smith, 8 Wall. 1, 12; Baldy v. IHunter, 171 U. S.
388, 394.
A specimen of the contract condemned under the rule is to
be found in 8prott v. United States, 20 Wall. 459, where the
plaintiff sought to recover from the defendant the value of certain cotton which he had purchased from and paid the price in
money to the Confederate government and which the Union
forces took from its possession in the last days of the existence
of that government. The court held that in the transaction the
.plaintiff gave aid and assistance to the rebellion in the most
efficient manner he possibly could; that he could not have aided
that cause more acceptably if he had entered its service and
become a blockade runner, or under the guise of a privateer
had preyed upon the unoffending commerce of his country.
The plaintiff asked the court to in effect carry out his void contract with the Confederate government. That is very different
from holding that these warrants were so far void that they
could not form the basis of payment of debts by their holders,
who had not received them from the State but had taken them
in the course of business from other parties and who then offered
them in payment of their debts due the State.
This whole subject has recently been gone over in _BaIdy v.
Hunter, 171 U. S. 388, where many other cases are commented
upon, and the principle of that and the other decisions of this
court therein referred to would seem to hold this contract not
unlawful.
But suppose these warrants were issued in aid of the rebel-

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

97

Opinion of the Court.

lion and were therefore void, and that the subsequent offer of
the State to receive them in payment of the debt of the company, under the provisions of the legislative acts already referred to, was, while unexecuted, also void on that ground, still
their actual receipt and the acquittance given were not, for that
reason, void as between these parties.
A contract in aid of the rebellion has been held illegal because it belonged to that class of contracts which are mala in
se, whose consideration is immoral and founded upon a criminal
purpose. If a State were a party to such a contract it would
not be void on the technical ground that it was ultra vires as
beyond the contract making power of the State, but because of
the illegal nature of its consideration. The contract would be
void for the same reason that it would be void as between individuals, not because they had no capacity to make it, but because, being founded upon an illegal consideration, no court
would recognize its validity or enforce its provisions. A State
as a sovereignty has power generally to make contracts, unless
there be some constitutional inhibition as to certain classes of
contracts, and if the consideration of a particular contract is bad
or immoral, the contract is illegal because of the character of
its consideration, and not because the contract would be beyond
the general scope and power of the State. Hence, as between
the parties to it, the State might, if it chose, perform all its requirements, and if the acts of its officers were performed in obedience to legislative authority, their performance in executing
the contract would be the act of the State. If, on the other
hand, the constitution of the State bad prohibited its officers
from ever receiving anything but gold in payment of this debt
of the company, a delivery of something else in assumed payment of the debt, though received as such by its officers under
the authority of the legislature, would be no payment. That
would be a case where the payment would be absolutely void
because beyond the capacity of the State to authorize and equally
beyond its capacity to ratify. It would be ultra vires in the
strict sense of the term. In such event, it would be true that
the act of the officer would be his individual act, and in no
sense would he represent or bind the State by his action. Such
VOL. CLXXVII-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

an attempted payment might, therefore, be regarded by any
subsequent officer of the State as wholly void and ineffectual
for any purpose.
The distinction between the two cases is obvious. In the
one the contract is void because of the illegality of the consideration, not because of the legal incapacity of either party
to make the contract, while in the other there is an entire lack
of power to make it under any circumstances. When, therefore, the officers of the State pursuant to its statutes received
the warrants as payment, they acted for the State in carrying
out an offer upon its part which the State had the legal capacity
to make and to carry out, and which it in this manner did carry
out. The State in such case had the same power to carry out
its contract (so far as the parties to it are concerned) as individuals would have had to carry out the same kind of a contract, and when the warrants were received by the officers
acting for the State in payment of the interest, and the bonds
of the State were issued to the school fund and acquittance
given to the company, the transaction was finished and coinpleted, in the case of the State, just as it would have been in
like circumstances in the case of the individual, and by such
action (as between the parties) the State is bound ; the acts of
its officers are its own acts, and it must be judged in the same
way as an individual would be judged. In other words, the
contract having been fully executed by tile company and the
State, neither party having chosen to refuse to perform its
terms, neither party as between themselves can thereafter act
as if the contract had not been performed, nor can tfhe State
pass any act which shall impair the obligation which s)rings
from its performance. After the complete execution of the
transaction it must be that each party thereupon and at once
became possessed of certain legal rights arising from its performance. Neither party could undo what had been fully
executed and completed, and the law therefore inlplies a contract that neither party will attempt to do so, or, in other
words, the law implies a contract that the payments made
shall not be thereafter repudiated or denied. Any subsequent
statute of the Stite which repudiated or permitted the repudia-

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS.

99

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the payments would impair the obligation of the contract which the law raises from the transaction itself.
That a contract will be implied under such circumstances is
stated in Pinmters' Bank v. [T2ion Ban,, 16 Wall. 483, 500.
There the court said: "Some of the authorities show that,
though an illegal contract will not be executed, yet when it has
been executed by the parties themselves, and the illegal object
of it has been accomplished, the money or thing which was the
price of it may be a legal consideration between the parties
for a promise, eq.)less or im)plied, and the court will not unravel
the transaction to discover its origin."
So in this case. The illegal object was fully executed and
accomplished, and upon its accomplishment and by reason of
the whole transaction there arose an implied contract that the
settlement should be conclusive upon all parties to it. This
principle calls for no aid from the court in the enforcement of
a void contract. The parties have already fully coinplied with
all its terms, and by reason thereof the implied contract has
arisen.
The State cannot now be perinitted to repudiate or set aside
the acts of its former officers, done in pursuance of the direction
of the legislature of the State, and effectually and forever
closed long before the present proceeding was commenced.
As between the parties to those transactions, this cannot be
done.
The action of the present officers of the State in bringing
this proceeding has been undoubtedly prompted by-the best
motives and from a desire to promote the true interests of their
State, but we nevertheless are unable to see how the proceeding
can be successful without overturning those principles of law
which must guide and control our judgment.
We are then brought to the question whether the subsequent
legislation of the State has in any manner impaired the obligation of the contracts made by the State at the times when these
various payments were made.
We have shown in the treatment of the motion to dismiss
how the judgment of the court below gave effect to, the subse-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

quent act of 1870. In giving such effect was the obligation of
the contract between the parties impaired thereby?
If the State had passed no act, the question of contract could
not have been raised in this court, the payments might have
been repudiated, and the court have held them illegal, and
we would have no jurisdiction to review its judgment. But
the State has passed a statute, and said that if the company
would pay interest and a certain proportion semi-annually upon
the aggregate amount of the loan as it stood May 1, 1870, no
further exaction would be made. The court has construed this
to mean that if the company will pay such proportion semiannually on the amount of the loan, to be ascertained by striking out the payments in warrants, then no default will be
incurred, but if not, then it will have made default, and the
act of 1870 provides in such case for proceedings to collect the
amount due. We say the court below has so construed the
act, and we say so notwithstanding it has not mentioned it in
any such connection. It has said so, however, by implication
necessarily arising from the judgment it has given when taken
in connection with the provision of the act which permits pro-'
ceedings only to be taken on a default, which does not exist in
this case if the company be credited with these warrants as
payments. By permitting the proceedings the court has necessarily construed the act as meaning that there is a default
when payments are not made on the basis of the invalidity of
the payments in warrants. The obligation of the contract
which we hold existed between the State and the cbmpany
growing out of the transactions mentioned has therefore by
this construction of the act by the state court been materially
impaired.
It is alleged on the part of the State that the acceptance of
the treasury warrants in payment of money loaned from the
school fund was a violation of the constitution of the State of
Texas, as being an illegal diversion of that fund. -Upon that
point we agree with the court below; (which held that there was
no such diversion,) for the reasons given by that court.
We have examined the various objections of the defendant in
error which it has made because of the alleged failure of the

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS. 101
MR. JUSTICE BROWN,

concurring.

plaintiffs in error to properly bring the Federal question before
the court, but we think they are not well taken.
We are of.opinion that the judgment of the Court of Civil
Appeals should be reversed and the case remanded to that
court with directions to remand the case to the District
Court, with directions to reverse its judgment andforfurther proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this
court, and is so ordered.
MR. Jus'ricE BRowN concurring:

I concur in the conclusion of the court, but from so much of
the opinion as holds that the treasury warrants in question were
not bills of credit within the meaning of the Constitution of the
United States, I am constrained to dissent.
It is admitted that these warrants fulfill all the conditions of
bills of credit, except, as it is said, they were not intended to
circulate as money. I am unable to concur in this view of the
intent of the legislature. By the act of February 14, 1860,
authorizing interest bearing warrants on the treasury, it was
expressly provided that these warrants should not circulate as
money, hut might be assigned. This act was repealed, however, in 1862, by another act providing that warrants should
be drawn for legal claims against the State, and payment made,
if there were money in the treasury ; but if not, the comptroller
was authorized to issue warrants payable to the party entitled
to payment, or bearer, which warrants should be of such proportions of the claim as were required by the holder, one-tenth
of the whole amount of which might be issued in warrants of
one dollar each, and the residue in warrants of five dollars or
more each. There was an omission in this act, which appears
to me extremely significant, of the proviso of the former act
that such warrants should not circulate as money. By another
act, approved the following day, it was provided that treasury
warrants of the State, not bearing interest, should be receivable "as mnoney" in the payment of taxes, office fees (including
fees for patents) and land dues payable in the general land office
of Texas, and all other dues to be collected for the State, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN,

concurring.

certain specified exceptions. By another act of December 16,
1863, the comptroller was authorized to receive from the railroad companies indebted to the special school fund all interest
on their bonds that might be or might thereafter become due
in state treasury warrants. This act was amended May 2S,
1864, by providing that the act of 1863 should not apply to
railroad companies which refused to receive these bonds or
treasury warrants at par for freight or passage, at the prices or
rates established by law.
The railway companies were thus compelled to receive these
warrants as money from their patrons in order to be able to
avail themselves of them in payment of interest upon their
bonds. In addition to this, the warrants were in the form of
bank notes, printed upon peculiar paper, such as is ordinarily
used by banks for their circulating notes, and contained a brief
and unconditional promise of the State to pay the amount to a
party named, or bearer, and were declared on their face to be
receivable for public dues.
If these facts be not decisive of an intention that these warrants should circulate as money, it is difficult to say what additional facts were needed to manifest that intent. Indeed, the
opinion of the court seems to me to practically elimi.nate from
the Constitution the provision that the States shall not emit
bills of credit, as well as to overrule the opinion of this court in
Craig v. iJ[issouri, 4 Pet. 410. In that case, the legislature
of the State of Missouri authorized the officers of the state
treasury to issue certificates, of denominations not exceeding
ten dollars, nor less than fifty cents, in the following form:
"This certificate shall be receivable at tie. treasury of any of
the loan offices in the State of Missouri, in discharge of taxes or
debts due to the State, for the sum of
dollars, with interest for the same, at the rate of two per cent per annum from
this date." These certificates were receivable at the treasury
in payment of taxes, or moneys due to the State, or to any
municipality, and by all officers, civil and military, in the discharge of salaries and fees of office. If simple certificates of
the State, containing no promise to pay, are bills of credit, much
more, it seems to me, should these obligations of the State of

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RD. CO. v. TEXAS. 103
Statement of the Case.

Texas issued in denominations of one dollar and upwards, in the
size, shape and color of bank notes, and receivable in discharge
of all taxes and debts due the State, to which a forced circulation was given as between railways and their patrons, be held
to be obnoxious to the same provision of the Constitution. As
was said by Chief Justice Marshall in that case: "The denominations of the bills, from ten dollars to fifty cents, fitted them
for the purpose of ordinary circulation; and their reception in
payment of taxes, and debts to the government and to corporations, and of salaries and fees would give them currency.
They were to be put into circulation; that is, emitted, by the
government. In addition to all these evidences of an intention
to make these certificates the ordinary circulating medium of
the country, the law speaks of them in this character, and directs the auditor and treasurer to withdraw annually one-tenth
of them from circulation. Had they been termed 'bills of
credit' instead of 'certificates' nothing would have been wanting to bring them within the prohibitory words of the Constitution."
But I fully concur with the court upon the second point, that
the State, having issued these warrants for a valuable consideration, having put them in circulation, having expressly authorized the railroad companies to pay them in discharge of
their interest upon their bonds, and having received them without objection at the time, it is too late now to claim that they
did not operate as payment. Though the warrants may have
been issued without authority, it was competent for the State
to recognize them, and to refuse now to admit them as payment
upon these bonds appears to me a plain violation of the public
faith. Upon the theory of the Court of Civil Appeals, I see
nothing to prevent the State, unless there be a statute of limitations operative against it, from bringing suit against everybody who paid these warrants to the State for taxes or for dues,
and recovering the amount a second time.
GALVESTON, HARRISBURG AND SAN ANTONIO RAILWAY

Co.

V. TEXAS.

Error to the Court of Civil Appeals for the Third Supreme Judicial

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

District of the State of Texas. No. 82. Argued with No. 81. Decided March 26, 1900.
This involves precisely the same questions that have just been
determined in the foregoing case, and the same judgment will, therefore, be entered. Same counsel as in No. 81.

UNITED STATES v. ELDER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No. 35. Argued October 13, 16, 1899.-Decided March 26, 1900.

United States v. Ortiz, 176 U. S. 422, affirmed and followed, to the point
that, in order to justify the confirmation of a claim under an alleged
Mexican grant, under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, 26 Stat. 854, it is
essential that the claimants establish, by a preponderance of proof, the
yalidity of their asserted title.
The mere approval, by the governor, endorsed on a petition presented to
him for a grant, before a reference to ascertain the existence of the prerequisites to a grant, is not the equivalent of a grant.
In order to vest an applicant under the regulations of 1828, with title in fee
to public land, it was necessary that tie grant should be evidenced by an
act of the governor, clearly and unequivocally conveying the land intended
to be granted, and a public record in some form was required to be made
of the grant; and the action of the legislative body could not lawfully be
invoked for approval of a grant, unless the expediente evidenced action
by the governor, unambiguous in terms as well as regular in character.
The mere indorsement by a Mexican governor of action on the petition,
before any of the prerequisite steps mentioned in the regulations of 1828
had been taken to determine whether, as to the land and the applicants,
the power to grant might be exercised, was a mere reference by the governor to ascertain the preliminary facts Kequired to justify an approval
of an application, and had no force and effect as an actual grant of title
to the land petitioned for.
Although the documents in question in this case, executed by the prefect
and the justice of the peace, fairly import that those officials assumed
authority to grant something as respected the land in question, they did
not, in 1845, possess power to grant a title to public lands.

THE alleged Mexican grant which forms the subject of this
controversy relates to a tract of land situate in the county of

