DE LAMAR'S NEVADA G. M. CO. v.NESBITT.

523

Syllabus.

passengers and regulate the transportation of its own freight
regardless of the interests of others." The distinction between
this statute and regulations requiring passenger trains to stop
at railroad crossings and drawbridges, and to reduce the speed
of trains when running through crowded thoroughfares; requiring its tracks to be fenced, and a bell and whistle to be attached
to each engine, signal lights to be carried at night, and tariff
and time tables to be posted at proper places, and other similar
requirements contributing to the safety, comfort and convenience of their patrons, is too obvious to require discussion.
Railroad Conmmission Cases, 116 U. S. 307, 334.
We are of opinion that the act in question is a direct burden
upon interstate commerce, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of Illinois must therefore be reversed, and
the case remanded to that court for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
IR.

JUSTICE BREWER

and MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS concurring:

We concur in this judgment on the proposition that the act
of the legislature of Illinois whether reasonable or unreasonable,
wise or foolish, is, as applied to the facts of this case, an attempt
by the State to directly regulate interstate commerce, and as
such attempt, is beyond the power of the State.

DE LAMAR'S NEVADA GOLD MINING COMPANY v.
NESBITT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEVADA.
No. 152. Argued March 1,1900.-Decided April 30, 1900.
The fact that in a state court plaintiff and defendant make adverse claims
to a mining location under the mining laws of the United States (Rev.
Stat. § 2325), does not of itself present a federal question within the
meaning of Rev. Stat. § 709.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
Where the plaintiff based his right to recover upon an act of Congress suspending the forfeiture of mining claims for failure to do the required
amount of work, and the decision of the court was in favor of the right
claimed by him under this statute, the defendant is not entitled to a writ
of error from this court to review such finding.
THIS was a suit begun in the District Court for the Fourth
Judicial District of Nevada by Nesbitt as part owner of the
Fraction mine, against one William Davidson, the alleged locator
of the Sleeper mining claim, covering the same ground as the
Fraction mine, to quiet plaintiff's title and that of his co-tenants to the Fraction mine, and to recover a money judgment
against the defendant.
The complaint alleged that the plaintiff and his co~wners
were tenants in common, and since May 15, 1892, had been in
possession of the Fraction mining claim, pursuant to the laws
of the United States, and that the defendant also claimed a
right to possession upon the alleged location of a certain mining
claim called by him the Sleeper mine; that such location was
made subsequent to the location of the Fraction mine, and that
the plaintiff had protested in the land office at Carson City
against the issuance of a patent to the defendant.
The answer denied the ownership and possession ot the plaintiff of the Fraction mine, and alleged as a defence the invalidity
of the proceedings under which Nesbitt and his co-tenants had
acquired the titles of the original locators to the Fraction mine.
The case came on for trial before the court without a jury,
and resulted in a judgment for the plaintiff, whereby it was decreed that the title of plaintiff and his co-tenants to the Fraction mine be quieted, and the claim of the defendant to that
portion of the Sleeper mine embraced within the boundary lines
of the Fraction mine, be rejected; with a further decree for the
recovery of certain incidental fees and costs. Upon motion for
a new trial, it was ordered that De Lamar's Nevada Gold Mining Company be substituted as defendant in the place of Davidson, deceased, and that the motion for a new trial be overruled.
Defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, which
affirmed the judgment. 52 Pac. Rep. 609. Whereupon it
sued out a writ of error from this court.

DE LAMAR'S NEVADA G. M. CO. v. NESBITT.

525

Opinion of the Court.

.r.
Jackson, H. Ralston and Mr. William M. Stewart for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Walter A. Johnston and .Mr. George S. Sawyer for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.

Defendant, known as De Lamar's Nevada Gold Mining Company, (hereinafter referred to as the mining company,) claims
title to the property in question through an application filed by
Davidson in the land office at Carson City, in pursuance of Rev.
Stat. § 2325, for a patent to the Sleeper mine, against the issue
which patent plaintiff Nesbitt filed an adverse claim as to so
much of the Sleeper mine as was embraced within the boundaries of the Fraction mine.
Plaintiff Nesbitt took title to the Fraction mine through a
location made May 12, 1892, by W. De Beque, H. Stevens and
A. Borth, who, it appeared, performed all the acts required to
make a valid location. Plaintiff claimed that he and George
Nesbitt, his brother, had acquired all the right, title and interest
of De Beque and Stevens to this mine through certain judgments
recovered in a justice's court against De Beque and Stevens,
upon which executions had been issued, and a sale made to the
Nesbitt brothers of their interests in the Fraction mine. This
left the Nesbitts and Borth the owners of that mine as tenants
in common. The court held these judgments to be void, but
admissible for the purpose of showing or tending to show color
of title and adverse possession in the Nesbitts and Borth. It
further appeared that the Nesbitts and Borth did assessment
work in each of the years 1895, 1896 and 1897 to the full
amount required by law, (§ 2324;) that no work was done in
either of the years 1893 and 1894, but that the Ndsbitt brothers,
in December of each of said years, had a notice recorded in the
county recorder's office, where the original notice of the location
of the Fraction mine was filed, declaring their intention in good
faith to hold and work the mine, Meantime, however,, the
Sleeper mine was located January 1, 1895, the boundaries of
which took in the Fraction mine.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court held the vital question to be whether the
notices which the Nesbitt brothers caused to be recorded of their
intention to hold and work the mine had the legal effect of saving it from being subject to a relocation by Davidson. Revised
Statutes, § 2324, provides that until a patent has been issued
upon a mining claim previously located, "not less than one hundred dollars' worth of labor shall be performed or improvements
made during each year," and that "upon a failure to comply
with these conditions, the claim or mine ulion which such failure occurred shall be open to relocation in the same manner as
if no location of the same had ever been made." But,. owing
probably to the stress of the financial panic then prevailing,
Congress passed on November 3, 1893, an act, 28 Stat. 6, c. 12,
providing that the requirements of section 2324 be suspended
for that year, "so that no mining claim which has been regularly
located and recorded as required by the local laws and mining
regulations shall be subject to forfeiture for the non-performance
of the annual assessment for the year 1893," provided a notice
of an intention to hold and work the claim be filed in the proper
office. This act was extended to the year 1894 by a subsequent
statute. Act of July 18, 1894, c. 142, 28 Stat. 114. Plaintiff
relied upon these statutes, and the court held that, the Nesbitt
brothers and Borth having had the notice required by the statutes recorded, under an agreement between themselves recognizing each other a's
co6wners and tenants in common, and
under the honest belief of all three that the Nesbitt brothers had
legally acquired all the interest of De Beque and Stevens by
virtue of the sale made under these judgments, the mine had not
been forfeited, and was not subject to relocation when the location of the Sleeper mine was made, and therefore that the
location of such mine was invalid, so far as it covered the Fraction mining claim.
From this summary of the pleadings and findings of the court,
it is clear that the defendant set up no right, title, privilege or
immunity under a statute of the United States, the decision of
which was adverse to it in that particular. The mere fact that
the mining company claimed title under a location made by
Davidson under the general mining laws of the United States,

DE LAMAR'S NEVADA G. M. CO. v. NESBITT.

527

Opinion of the Court.

Rev. Stat. § 2325, was not in itself sufficient to raise a Federal
question, since no dispute arose as to the legality of such location, except so far as it covered ground previously located, or
as to the construction of this section. We have repeatedly held
that to sustain a writ of error from this court something more
must appear than that the parties claim title under an act of
Congress.
The subject is fully discussed and the prior authorities cited
in the recent case of Blackburn v. PortlandGold Aining Company, 175 U. S. 571, which was also a contest between rival
claimants of a mine under sections 2325. and 2326. It was held
that the provision in section 2326 for the trial of adverse claims
to a mining patent "by a court of competent jurisdiction' did
not in itself vest jurisdiction in the Federal courts, although, of
course, jurisdiction would be sustained, if the requirements of
amount and diverse citizenship existed; and that the judgment
of the Supreme Court of the State in such case could not be
reviewed in this court simply because the parties were claiming
rights under a Federal statute. A like ruling was made in the
still later case of Florida Central & PeninsularRailroad v.
Bell, 176 U. S. 321. See also California Powder Works v.
Davis, 151 U. S.389.
If the law were otherwise, then every lafnd case wherein one
of the parties claimed title, either immediately or remotely
through a patent of the United States, would present a Federal
question; and as most of the land titles in the Western States
of this country are traceable back to a right under the laws of
the United States, every such case might be held reviewable by
this court on writ of error. This position, of course, is untenable. If the fact that the plaintiff takes title directly or indirectly from the United States be insufficient to create a case
"arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States"
within the meaning of the jurisdictional act of 1888, much less
does it make one of a "title, right, privilege or immunity."
claimed under a statute of the United States, an adverse decision of which by'the highest court of a State entitles the injured
party under Rev. Stat. sec. 709 to a writ of error from this
court, To raise a Federal question the right inust be one claimed

OCTOBER TERI,

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

under a particular statute of the United States, the validity,
construction or applicability of which was made the subject of
dispute in the state court; and the decision upon such statute
must have been adverse to the plaintiff in error. No Federal
question was presented by the pleadings in the case, and the
whole gravamen of defendant's argument was, not the denial
to it of any right under the mining laws of the United States,
but the invalidity of the proceedings under which the Nesbitt
brothers had acquired the interest of De Beque and Stevens in
the Fraction mine.
There was undoubtedly a Federal question raised in the case,
but it was raised by the plaintiff Nesbitt, who based his right
to recover upon the acts of Congress of November 3, 1893, and
July 18, 1894, suspending the forfeiture of mining claims for
failure to do the required amount of work. The decision of the
court, however, was in favor of, and not against, the right
claimed under the statute, and of this construction the plaintiff
in error is in no position to take advantage, as it made no claim
under those statutes. This subject was considered in the case
of Missouri v. Andriano, 138 U. S.496, in which the contest

was between rival claimants to the office of sheriff. Respondent relied upon the fact that he had received a majority of the
votes cast at a popular election for the office. Relator claimed
the election to be void under the stat constitution, which
declared that no one should be elected or appointed to office
who was not a citizen of the United States. Respondent ad mitted
his foreign birth, but claimed that, under Rev. Stat. sec. 2172,
he became a citizen by the naturalization of his father. The
decision of the court was in his favor, and it was held that the
relator had no right to a review of the question in this court,
although if the judgment had been adverse to the claim of the
respondent there would have been no doubt of his right to a
writ of error. It was said that the right or privilege must be
personal to the plaintiff in error, and that he was not entitled to
a review, where the right or privilege was asserted by the other
party, and the decision was in favor of that party and adverse
to himself. It is manifest that the object of section 709 was
,not to give a right of royiw wherever the validity of an act of

JOHN BAD ELK v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

Congress was drawn in question, but to prevent States from
frittering away the authority of the Federal government by
limiting too closely the construction of Federal stattftes. Hence
the writ of error will only lie where the decision is adverse to
the right claimed. To the same effect are Dower v. Richards,
151 U. S. 658, 666; Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180; Jersey
City & Bergen Railroad v. 3organ, 160 U. S. 288; Rae v.
Homestead Loan & Guaranty Co., 176 U. S. 121; Abbott v.
Tacoma Bank, 175 U. S. 409.
Except so far as the case under consideration required a construction of the above-mentioned acts of Congress suspending
the forfeitur6 of mining claims, the questions were purely of a
local nature, and not subject to review in this court.
There is no Federal question presented by the record in this
case, and it must therefore be
Dismissed.
MR.

JUSTICE

MeKENNA dissented.

JOHN BAD ELK v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
No. 310.

Submitted February 26, 1900.-

Decided April 30, 1900.

Three policemen in South Dakota attempted, under verbal orders, to arrest
another policeman for an alleged violation of law, when no charge had
been formally made against him, and no warrant had issued for his arrest. Those attempting to make the arrest carried arms, and when he
refused to go, they tried to oblige him to do so by force. 'He fired and
killed one of them. lie was arrested, tried for murder and convicted.
The court charged the jury: "The deceased, John Kills Back, had been
ordered to arrest -the defendant; hence he had a right to go and make
the attempt to arrest the defendant. The defendant had no right to
resist him. It is claimed on the part of the defendant that he made no
resistance, and he was willing to go with the officer in the morning. I
VOL. CLXXVII-34

