HOWARD v. DE CORDOVA.
Statement of the Case.

estate owned by Scott, and, as already shown, no defendant
was asserting claims which aggregated the amount required to
confer jurisdiction upon this court.
Dismised for want ofjurisdiction.

HOWARD v. DE CORDOVA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 246. Argued and submitted April 17, 1900.-Decided

May 14, 1900.

Following Cooper v. Newell, 173 U. S. 555, it is held that the judgment of
the Texas court which is attacked in this case may be the subject of collateral attack in the courts of the United States, sitting in the same territory in a suit between citizens of Louisiana and citizens of Texas.
By c. 95, §§ 13, 14 of the Laws of Texas of 1847 and 1848, the affidavit by
the plaintiff or his attorney as to the want of knowledge of the names of
the parties defendant or their residence is made an essential prerequisite
of the jurisdiction of the court to issue an order for publication.

In the

state court the affidavit was therefore jurisdictional in its character, and
its verity was directly assailed by the averments of the present bill, which
were admitted by tile demurrer.

By their original bill the complainants, alleging themselves
to be citizens of the State of Louisiana, complained against
P. De Cordova, a citizen of the State of Texas, residing in Travis
County, W. R. Boyd, F.' E. Hill, Charles Robertson, J. M,
Parker and George W. McAdams, citizens of Texas and residents of Freestone County, and against Joseph Smolenski, as
to whom it was merely alleged he "is not an inhabitant of or
found within this district." The grounds for relief which it is
necessary to notice for the purposes of the questions before us,
averred in the original bill and an amendment thereto, were as
follows: That the complainants were the sole legal heirs of
J. W. Zacharie, their deceased father, who during his lifetime
was a citizen and resident of the State of Louisiana; that their
said deceased ancestor owned a tract of eleven leagues of land
VOL. CLXXVii-39

OCTOBER TERM, 189-9.
Statement of the Case.

situated in Freestone and Anderson Counties, Texas, which had
been granted to Manuel Riondo, by the states of Coahuila and
Texas; that on the 26th of February, 1852, their said father
made a contract with Jacob and Phineas De Cordova, by which
the two last named persons agreed to have the grant above
mentioned properly placed upon the records, to endeavor to
effect compromises with certain parties holding claims by junior
locations covering some of the land in the grant; that by the
agreement in question all expenses except the taxes were to be
paid by the two Cordovas, and in consideration of their services
they were to receive one third of the receipts derived from the
sale of all the land which might be covered by the compromises
to be effected as aforesaid. It was alleged that in pursuance of
the contract the two De Cordovas made various compromises
with persons claiming under junior grants, and that the land
thus embraced, the exact amount of which was not alleged,
although it probably equaled ten thousand acres, was sold, and
they received their share of the proceeds resulting from the
sale. It was charged that in 1860 Jacob De Cordova acknowledged in writing that a full settlement had been made with
him by Zacharie for all the lands as to which compromises had
been made, and he therefore declared that all and every right
which had vested in him by the contract in question had been
liquidated and settled. It was then averred that on the 9th of
November, 1895, Phineas De Cordova, with the object of defrauding complainants of their right and title to the land a foresaid, filed in the district court of Freestone County, Texas, a
suit in partition, in which he falsely alleged himself to be the
owner of an undivided one sixth of the land situated in the
Riondo grant; that this suit was brought against the unknown
heirs of J. W. Zacharie, deceased, and against Joseph Smolenski,
whose residence was also in said suit alleged to be unknown.
At the time this suit was thus brought by De Cordova it was
averred that both he and Boyd, the attorney who represented
De Cordova in the suit, knew who were the heirs of J. W.
Zacharie and where they resided, but that in order to defraud
and to avoid notice to them of the suit, and to obtain summons
by publication as required by the law of Texas, an affidavit was

HOWARD v. DE CORDOVA.
Statement of the Case.

made by William R. Boyd, the attorney, that the heirs of
Zacharie and their residences were unknown; that, predicated
upon this affidavit, the order for publication was given by the
court; that instead of publishing the notice at the county seat,
it was inserted in a newspaper in a remote portion of the county,
and that the complainants had no knowledge whatever of the
suit until long after its termination ; that in this suit for partition an attorney was subsequently appointed to represent the
unknown and absent defendants; that the law of the State of
Texas required that a statement of facts should be made by the
judge, but that one was prepared by Boyd, representing De
Cordova, and the attorney who had been appointed to represent the absent defendants, which had for its effect to produce
upon the mind of the court the impression that under the contract aforesaid, made between the Cordovas and Zacharie, the
Cordovas were entitled as owners to one third of the eleven
leagues of land ; that being misled to that conclusion, after proceedings as required in partition suits, a decree of partition was
entered. The complaint as amended made other charges of
fraud and deception which it is unnecessary to recapitulate.
As to the other defendants to the bill, except Smolenski, it was
averred that they had acquired with full notice of the fraud,
which it was charged. had been operated upon the Zacharie
heirs by the partition suit as aforesaid, portions of the land in
question. Smolenski was made a party to the bill because of
the following averments: After the adjustment alleged to have
been made between Zacharie and De Cordova, it was stated
that Zacharie had sold all the land in August, 1865, to Smolenski
for.the price of $15,000, evidenced by his notes as follows: One
for $3000 dated May 1, 1866, and twelve notes of $1000 each,
payable yearly thereafter, with eight per cent interest per annum from May 1, 1866; that in the deed to Smolenski it was
stipulated that a vendor's lien should be retained on the land
to secure the payment of the notes, and it was provided that if
any of the said notes should remain unpaid for six months after
maturity, the vendor should have ?psofacto the right to cancel
and annul the sale and reenter and take possession of said lands.
It was then averred that none of the notes given by Smolenski

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

had ever been paid, although past due for twenty or thirty
years.
The prayer of the bill was that the proceedings in partition
and the decree directing the same, be adjudged to be fraudulent
and void ; that the sales made to the other defendants be also
declared fraudulent and void, and that the deed made by Zacharie to Slnolenski to be set aside and cancelled, and the cloud
thereby "cast on your orators' title to said land be removed."
To the bill and the amendment thereto the defendants demurred on the following grounds:
"First. It appeared from the face of plaintiffs' amended bill
that the bill seeks to set aside, cancel and annul the judgment
of the district court of Freestone County, State of Texas, and
this court has no jurisdiction or power to cancel, set aside or
annul the judgment of the state court, said court having jurisdiction both over the subject-matter and of the persons in said
suit, said suit being a partition suit and the proceeding one i
ren.
"Second. The amended bill shows upon its face that the object of the bill is to obtain a new trial in this court in cause
No. 1960, tried and determined in the district court of Freestone
County, Texas, as shown by the exhibits to the bill, under and
in accordance with article 1375 of the Revised Statutes of
Texas.
"That this proceeding is but a continuation of said suit, and
this court has no jurisdiction of the same, but the district court
of Freestone County, Texas, alone has jurisdiction of the same.
"Third. That the judgment of the district court of Freestone
County, Texas, is valid and binding upon all of the parties to
this suit, and this court has no jurisdiction, power or authority
to review or to cancel and annul the same for the pretended
fraud, as set out in plaintiffs' bill, or for any other cause therein
stated."
After hearing, the court sustained the demurrer and dismissed
the suit "for want of jurisdiction of the subject-matter in controversy," and the correctness of its action in so doing is the
question which arises on this appeal.

HOWARD v. DE CORDOVA.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. F. C. Zacharie for appellants.
2r. R. . Ward and
submitted on their brief.

X1r. Askby S. James for appellees,

M . JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

That the court erred in sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the suit for want of jurisdiction over the subject-matter of
the controversy, has been in effect conclusively settled by this
court in a case decided since the action of the court below was
taken. Cooper v. Newell, 173 U. S. 555. In that case suit had
been brought in a court of the State of Texas in the ordinary
form of trespass, to try title by Peter McGrael against Stewart
Newell, the defendant. It was alleged in the suit that the
plaintiff was a resident of Texas, and that the defendant was
also a resident and citizen of that State. An answer was filed
in the cause by an attorney at law in the name of the defendant, and the suit proceeded to judgment. The controversy decided in Cooper v. NVewell thus arose: Newell filed his bill in
the Circuit Court of the United States in and for the Eastern
District of Texas, in the ordinary form of trespass, to try title
to recover the land to which the suit of AfcGrael v. Newell had
.related. Ile charged that the defendants claimed title under
the judgment rendered in that suit, but that they had no title
because he, Newell, had never resided in the State of Texas;
had not authorized any attorney to appear for him in the suit,
and that, therefore, the proceedings in _lfoGrael v. NYewell were
as to him res inter alios acta, and wholly void. The controversy turned on whether Newell could be heard in the Circuit
Court of the United States to attack the judgment of the state
court, it being contended that the fact that Newell was represented by an attorney at law, who appeared and filed an answer
in his name, was conclusively established by the judgment,
which could not be assailed collaterally in a court of the United
States, however much it might be subject to direct attack for
fraud in the courts of the State of Texas. The contention was

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

not maintained, it being decided that as the charges went to
the jurisdiction of the state court such question of jurisdiction
could be examined in the courts of the United States whenever
the judgment of the state court was presented as a muniment
of title. The alleged facts in the case before us bring it directly
within this ruling. By chapter 95, sections 13 and 14, Lavs of
Texas 1847 and 1848, page 129, the affidavit by the plaintiff or
his attorney as to the want of knowledge of the names of the
parties defendant or their residences, is made an essential prerequisite of the jurisdiction of the court to issue an order for
publication. In other words, a summons by publication can
only take place when the essential affidavit is previously made.
In the state court the affidavit was therefore jurisdictional in
its character; and its verity was directly assailed by the averments of the present bill which were admitted by the demurrer.
Besides this decisive consideration, the proceedings in the state
court, whatever may have been their efficacy as a defence to
the charges of fraud, contained in the bill, as to which we express no opinion, were not adequate to defeat the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court of the United States. In other words, they
address themselves not to the jurisdiction of the court, but to
the merits of the cause. Huntington v. ]Jaidley,176 U. S. 668.
Whilst the demurrer which the court below maintained was
predicated solely on the fact that there was a want of jurisdiction because of the proceedings had in the state court, which
the bill assailed for want of jurisdiction and fraud, we have observed that the citizenship of Smolenski is not averred in the
bill. This defect was curable by amendment, and it was not
only within the power but the duty of the court, on its attention
being called to the fact, to have allowed such an amendment to
be made. It follows that
Te judgment must be 'reversedand the cause be remandedfor
furtherproceedings in conformity with this opinion, and it
is so ordered.

