FORSYTH v. VEHMEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

justice by the courts. This court has taken another view of the
subject, in the decision of Botsford's case, above cited. But by
reason of the statute of New Jersey, in which State this action
was brought, there being no law of Congress in conflict therewith, we hold that the courts of the United States therein sitting
have the power under the statute and by virtue of section 721
of the Revised Statutes of the United States to order the examination of the person of the plaintiff, and we, therefore, answer
the third question of the court below in the affirmative, and
It will be do certified.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

FORSYTH v. VEHMEYER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 180.

Submitted March 13, 1900.-Decided April 9, 1900.

A representation as to a fact,;made knowingly, falsely and fraudulently,
for the purpose of obtaining money from another, and by means of which
such money is obtained, creates a debt by means of a fraud involving
moral turpitude and intentional wrong, and such debt is not discharged by
a discharge in bankruptcy.

Tis was a motion to dismiss. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. John S. Miller and Mr. X. W. Robinson for the motion.
XEr. Edward Roby opposing.
MR.

JUSTICE

PECKHAM delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error brought this action against one Jacob
Forsyth, in the Superior Court of Cook County, in the State of
VOL. CLXxvII--12

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Illinois, in April term, 1891, upon a judgment in his favor which
he had theretofore recovered against the said Jacob Forsyth.
The defendant has died since the commencement of this action,
and the plaintiff in error has been appointed administrator upon
his estate. The judgment sued upon was entered at the June
term of the Superior Court of, Cook County, in the State of Illinois, held in Chicago in 1871, and the judgment record was destroyed by the great fire in that city on October 9, 1871.
. To the declaration in the action upon this juagment the defendant pleaded (1) nil debet; (2) nul tiel record; (3) a discharge in bankruptcy, (meaning under the bankrupt act of 1867).
Plaintiff replied to the third plea, that the debt mentioned in
the judgment was created by fraud, and therefore was not discharged under the bankrupt act.
Upon the trial the plaintiff, in order to prove the original
judgment and its character, called as a witness the attorney who
procured it, who testified that the declaration was in substance
as follows: The plaintiff complains of the defendant in an action
in trespass on the case, for that on the tenth day of August,
1868, in order to induce the plaintiff to advance to the defendant a large amount of money, to wit, the sum of twelve hundred
dollars, the defendant falsely and fraudulently represented unto
the plaintiff that the defendant had a large amount of birch
cordiwood, to wit, the amount of 200 cords, cut and piled up
near the Pittsburgh and Fort Wayne Railroad in the county of
Lake, State of Indiana, ready to be shipped to Chicago; that
one Eldridge had contracted to purchase the wood at six dollars
per cord in the city of Chicago, when shipped, and that if the
plaintiff would advance to the defendant at the rate of five dollars per cord, for the two hundred cords of wood, the defendant
would immediately ship the cordwood to the city of Chicago;
that the plaintiff relying upon those representations as being
true advanced to. the defendant the sum of $1200 ; that the defendant shipped only the sum of forty cords of wood to Eldridge,
upon which the plaintiff received the sum of six dollars per
cord; that the representations of the defendant were false and
fraudulent; that he did not have and never did have in the
county of Lake and State of Indiana two hundred cords of birch

FORSYTH v. VEHMEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

wood piled up ready for shipment to the city of Chicago to sell
to Eldridge, but that he only had in the county, of Lake, or anywhere else, the sum of forty cords of birch wood, which was
shipped by the defendant to Eldridge; that the plaintiff was
damaged to the extent of the amount that was alleged in the
declaration, and therefore he brings this action for fraud and
deceit against the defendant.
To this declaration the undisputed evidence shows that the
defendant pleaded not guilty, and there was no other issue in
the case. The verdict was, " That the jury found the defendant
guilty and assessed the plaintiff's damages at $833.35." Judgment was duly entered upon the verdict, and it is this judgment
which is sued upon in this action.
The present action was tried before the court, and upon the
trial the defendant read in evidence a duly certified copy of his
discharge in bankruptcy on December 30, 1880. The court
found the issues in favor of the plaintiff, and ordered judgment
in his favor, which was duly entered. Upon appeal to the
Appellate Court the judgment was affirmed, and upon a further
appeal to the Supreme Court that court also affirmed it, and
the case is now here on writ of error to the Supreme Court of
Illinois.
Unless the judgment sued upon was recovered on a debt
created by fraud, the defendant's discharge in bankruptcy was
a bar to the maintenance of this action.
The bankrupt act of 1867, section 33, 14 Stat. 511, 533;
also Rev. Stat. section 5117, provided, "That no debt created
by the fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or by his defalcation as a public officer, or while acting in any fiduciary character, shall be discharged under this act," etc.
The plaintiff in error contends that the original judgment
was not recovered in an action for fraud and deceit, and even
if it were, the fraud proved is not that kind of fraud which is
debarred from a discharge in bankruptcy. He gave some evidence tending to show that the action was in the nature of one
in assumpsit, but the finding of the court in plaintiff's favor
must be held to be a finding that the action was for, fraud.
The declaration proved alleges a false and fraudulent rep-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

resentation by means of which the plaintiff below was induced
to advance money to the defendant to his damage in a named
amount. The defendant pleaded not guilty, and if the cause of
action had been one in assumpsit, the plea at common law
would have been non-assumpsit instead of not guilty. 3 Ch. P.
10th Am. 3d Lend. ed. pp. 908, 1030.
The declaration did not, it is true, cdntain the allegation that
the representations of the defendant were false to his knowledge. It simply said that the representations of the defendant
were false and fraudulent.
The opinion of the Appellate Court, in this case, which was
adopted by the Supreme Court of the State, held that "the
declaration testified to is too plainly in tort for false and fraudulent representations to require argument: The allegation that
the representations were false and fraudulent implies that appellant knew-of their falsity. . .
But even though an express
allegation of the scienter were necessary, its omission would be
cured by the verdict." We understand by this opinion that the
court held the first action was for fraud and deceit and that the
plaintiff was bound to have proved the fraud as alleged in the
declaration in order to maintain the action. This decision involves no Federal question.
Where the state court has decided that the action was for
fraud and deceit, and has held that in order to have maintained
such action the fraud must have been proved as laid in the declaration, it must be assumed that the verdict and judgment in that
action were obtained only upon proof and a finding by the jury
of the fact of fraud. Judgmelit being entered after a trial upon
such pleadings and upon a verdict of guilty, the question of
fraud was not open for a second litigation upon the trial of this
action. The defendant below in this action had full opportunity given him to prove what in fact was the declaration in and
the character of the first action, and the findings of the court
below in favor of the plaintiff must be regarded as a finding
against the defendant upon the issue as to the character of that
action. The evidence offered by him and rejected by the court
was not admissible on the issue because it was not pertinent.
The existence of the fraud must, therefore, be assumed in the

FORSYTH v. VEHMEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

further progress of the case.

The only matter left for this court

to decide is whether a debt created by means of a fraud, such
as is set forth in the declaration, is exempt from the effect of a
discharge in bankruptcy.
The proper construction of the section of the act relating to
such a discharge has been frequently before this court, and we
regard the law upon the subject as quite well settled. There
are many cases where it has been olaimed that the discharge
was operative, if the fraud proved was only constructive, and
involved no moral turpitude or intentional wrong. Such cases
are illustrated by that of Ilennequin v. Clews, 111 U. S. 676.
In that case the pledgee of stocks, held as security for a liability incurred by him for the pledgor, had thereafter hypothecated the stocks to secure a debt due from himself to another,
and having failed to return to his pledgor such stocks when his
liability for the pledgor had ceased, it was held that he was not
thereby guilty of a fraudulent creation of his debt to the pledgor,
and that it had not been incurred in a fiduciary capacity, so as to
bar his discharge under the thirty-third section of the bankrupt
act. Many of the cases bearing upon the subject are cited by.
Mr. Justice Bradley, who delivered the opinion of the court,
and it is unnecessary to comment upon them here. He referred
to the case of Neal v. Clark, 95 U. S. 704, where Mr. Justice
Harlan, indelivering the opinion of the court, said: "Such association justifies, if it does not imperatively require, the conclusion that the 'fraud' referred to in that section (33) means
positive fraud, or fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or
intentional wrong, as does embezzlement; and not implied fraud,
or fraud in law, which may exist without the imputation of bad
faith or immorality. Such a construction of the statute is consonant with equity, and consistent with the object and intention
of Congress in enacting a general law by which the honest citizen may be relieved from the burden of hopeless insolvency.
A different construction would be inconsistent with the liberal'
spirit which pervades the entire bankrupt system."
The Hennequin case was held to be governed by the principle announced in the case of Neat v. Clark, and the discharge
was held effective.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

In Strang v. Bradner, 114 U. S. 555, the rule as to the kind
of fraud intended to be exempted from discharge by the bankrupt act was again adverted to, and it was again said that it
was positive fraud or fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude
or intentional wrong; not implied fraud which may exist without badfaith. In that case certain false and fraudulent misrepresentations of fact were made by one member of a partnership
firm, by reason of which the debt was created, and it was held
that it was a debt of that character which was not discharged
under the bankrupt act, and the innocent members of the firm
were liable upon the debt created by the fraudulent misrepresentations of another member of the firm.
Also in Ames v. Moir, 138 U. S. 306, 312, it was said: "If
Ames made his call, with the knowledge that he was insolvent, and with the purpose of getting possession of the wines
and shipping them out of the State without paying for them
according to the terms of the executory agreement of June 9,
and received them with that preconceived intent -and there
was evidence that justified the jury in so finding- he was
guilty of fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or intentional wrong, and is not protected against the claim of the
plaintiffs by his discharge inbankruptcy."
Within this rule, as maintained by the court, there can be no
doubt that the defendant below was not discharged under the
bankrupt act. A representation as to a fact, made knowingly,
falsely and fraudulently for the purpose of obtaining money from
another, and by means of which such money is obtained, creates
a debt by means of a fraud involving moral turpitude and intentional wrong. It is not necessary to enlarge upon the subject. It is so plainly a fraud of that description that its mere
statement obtains our ready assent.
The courts below were, therefore, right in denying to the
defendant any benefit by reason of his discharge. in bankruptcy. The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of
Illinois is right, and must, therefore, be
Ajfirmed.

