OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

CAMDEN AND SUBURBAN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
STETSON.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 174. Argued March 6, 1900.-

Decided April 9, 1900.

This was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of New Jersey against a railway company, for an alleged injury to the plaintiff, caused by the neglect of the railway company while
the plaintiff was a passenger on one of its cars. Held that that court had
the legal right or power, under the statute of New Jersey and the United
States Revised Statutes, to order a surgical examination of the plaintiff.
THIS case came here upon a certificate from the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit, under the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 517, ยง 6, 26 Stat. 826. The action was brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of New Jersey by
the plaintiff against the railway company to recover damages
for an alleged injury to his person caused by the neglect of the
defendant while the plaintiff was a passenger on one of defendant's cars. At the time that he brought suit plaintiff was a citizen of the State of Pennsylvania, the railway company being
a corporation of the State of New Jersey. The alleged neglect
and injury occurred on the 13th day of July, 1896, in the city
of Camden in the State of New Jersey, and at that time the
plaintiff was a citizen of that State.
On the 12th of May, 1896, the legislature of New Jersey
passed and the governor approved an act (c. 202, p. 344) which
reads as follows:
"1. On or before the trial of any action brought to recover damages for injury to the person, the court before whom such action
is pending may, from time to time on application of any party
therein, order and direct an examination of the person injured,
as to the injury complained of, by a competent physician or
physicians, surgeon or surgeons, in order to qualify the person
or persons making such examination, to testify in the said cause

CAMDEN AND SUBURBAN RY. CO. v. STETSON. 173
Counsel for Parties.

as to the nature, extent and probable duration of the injury
complained of; and the court may in such order direct and
determine the time and place of such examination; provided,
this act shall not be construed to prevent any other person or
physician from being called and examined as a witness as heretofore."
When the case was called for trial on March 31, 1898, and
after a jury had been impaneled, but before the case was opened
to the jury, the defendant's counsel asked in open court that the
plaintiff should submit himself to examination by a competent
surgeon. The plaintiff would not consent, and the court held
that it had no power to order the plaintiff to subject himself to
examination by physicians against his will, and it therefore
refused to make the order asked for by counsel for the defendant, who was thereupon allowed an exception to the ruling.
The trial proceeded and resulted in a verdict and judgment for
the plaintiff. The defendant brought the case by writ of error
before the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that court desiring the
instruction of this court upon the matter made the foregoing
statement and ordered the following questions to be certified
here:
"11. Is the above-recited statute of the State of New Jersey,
the act of May 12, 1896, applicable to an action to recover damages for injuryto the person brought and tried in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of New Jersey?
"2. Is said statute applicable to an action to recover damages
for injury to the person brought and tried in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of New Jersey, where the
injury occurred in the State of New Jersey, and both the plaintiff and the defendant at the time of the injury were citizens of
that State ?
"3. Had the Circuit Court the legal right or power to order
a surgical examination of the plaintiff?"
Mr. E. A. Armstrong and XJr. David J. Panoastfor plaintiff in error.
Xr. Hloward Carrow for defendant in error,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

:MR. JUSTICE PECKIHAM, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.

An answer to the third question, "'Had the Circuit Court the
legal right or power to order a surgical examination of the
plaintiff," will be all that is necessary for the action of the court
below.
. It is settled in this court that no power to make such
an order
exists at common law; in other words, the court has no inherent power to make it. Union Paciflc Railway v. Botsford,
141 U. S. 250. In that case there was no statute of the State
in which the United States court was held which authorized the
order. There is no intimation in the opinion that a statute of
a State directly authorizing such examination would be a violation of the Federal Constitution, or invalid for any other
reason.
In this case we have such a statute, and by section 721 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States it is provided that "the
laws of the several States, except where the Constitution, treaties
or statutes of the United States otherwise require or provide,
shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law
in courts of the United States, in cases in which they apply."

Does not this statute of the State apply in trials at common
law in the United States -courts sitting in the State where the
statute exists ?
The case before'us is a common law action; it is one to recover damages for a tort, which is an action of that nature. It
was being tried in the State which enacted the statute, and the
court was asked to apply such statute to the trial of an action
at common law.
Neither the Constitution, treaties nbr statutes of the United
States otherwise require or provide. The statute concerns the
evidence which may be given on a trial in New Jersey, and it
does not conflict with any statute of the United States upon
that subject. It is not a question of a general nature, like the
law merchant,' but simply one concerning evidence based upon
a local statute applicable to actions brought within the State to
recover damages for injury to tho person. The statute comes

CAMDEN AND SUBURBAN RY. CO. v. STETSON. 175
Opinion of the Court.

within the principle of the decisions of this court holding a law
of the State of such a nature binding upon Federal courts sitting within the State. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, 18; Nichols
v. Levy, 5 Wall. 433; Watson v. Tarpley, 18 How. 517, 520;
Exparte -Fiskc, 113 U. S. 713.
It was held in United States .v. Reid, 12 How. 361, that the
provision of the law of Congress did not extend to criminal
offences against the United States, for that would be to give to
the Stateg the power of prescribing the rules of evidence in trials
for offences against the United States. It was said, however,
that the section was intended to confer upon the courts of the
United Stat6s the jurisdiction necessary to enable them to administer the laws of the States.
We are not aware of any reason why this law of the State
does not apply to courts of the United States under the section
of the Revised Statutes above quoted. There is no claim made
that the statute violates the Federal Constitution, and we are of
opinion that such a.claiin would have no foundation, if made.
Counsel for the plaintiff refers in his argument to the opinion
in the Botsford case, where it is stated (at page 256) that the
question is one which is not governed by the law or practice of
the State in which the trial is had, but that it depends upon the
power of the national courts under the Constitution and laws of
the United States, and he argues therefrom that the state statute is immaterial, and can furnish no foundation for the exercise of the power by the Federal court. We do not dispute that
if there were no law of the United States which, in connection
with the state law, could be referred to as in effect providing
for the exercise of the power, the court could not grant the
order under the decision in the case of Botsford. But we say
there is a law of the United States which does apply the laws
of the State where the United States court sits, and where the
State has a law which provides for the making of an order for
the examination of the person of a plaintiff in a case like this,
the law of the United States applies that law to cases of such a
nature on trial ift Federal courts sitting in that State. In the
Bot1ford case there wasno state law, and consequently no found.
ation for the application of the law of the United $tats,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

In Exparte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713, the statute of the State of
New York, in relation to the examination of parties before trial,
was held to be in conflict with the act of Congress providing for
the examination of witnesses in courts of the United States, and
was, therefore, inapplicable in those courts; but the statute in
this case is not in conflict with any statute of the United States.
It does not conflict with section 861 of the Revised Statutes,
providing for the oral examination of witnesses in open court.
On the contrary, whatever information may be obtained by the
surgeon who examines the plaintiff under the statute in question can be availed of only by the defendant's producing the
witness and examining him in open court, or by deposition, if
he come within the exception mentioned in section 863 and the
following sections.
The validity of this statute has been affirmed by the Supreme
Court of New Jersey in McGovern v. Hope, 42 Atl. Rep. 830;
to appear in 63 N. J. Law. The opinion of the court was delivered by Mr. Justice Depue and the court held that the act
was within the power of the legislature, and was not an infringement upon the constitutional rights of the party.
The validity of a statute of this nature has also been upheld in
Lyon v. anliattanRailway Company, 142 N. Y. 298, although
the particular form of that statute would probably be regarded
as conflicting with the law of Congress in relation to the examination of a party as a witness before trial, and hence might not
be enforced in courts of the United States sitting within the
State of New York, but the validity of a statute providing for
the examination of the person of a plaintiff in an action to recover for injuries is upheld and declared not to be in violation
of the constitutional rights of the party.
The citizenship of the plaintiff at the time of the injury is not
material so long as the court below has jurisdiction of the case
and the parties at the time of the commencement of the action.
In those States in which it has been held that the court has
inherent power to order the examination of a plaintiff in this
class of action without the aid of a statute, all has been said that
could be urged in favor of such power on grounds connected
with public policy and the due and proper administration of

FORSYTH v. VEHMEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

justice by the courts. This court has taken another view of the
subject, in the decision of Botsford's case, above cited. But by
reason of the statute of New Jersey, in which State this action
was brought, there being no law of Congress in conflict therewith, we hold that the courts of the United States therein sitting
have the power under the statute and by virtue of section 721
of the Revised Statutes of the United States to order the examination of the person of the plaintiff, and we, therefore, answer
the third question of the court below in the affirmative, and
It will be do certified.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

FORSYTH v. VEHMEYER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 180.

Submitted March 13, 1900.-Decided April 9, 1900.

A representation as to a fact,;made knowingly, falsely and fraudulently,
for the purpose of obtaining money from another, and by means of which
such money is obtained, creates a debt by means of a fraud involving
moral turpitude and intentional wrong, and such debt is not discharged by
a discharge in bankruptcy.

Tis was a motion to dismiss. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. John S. Miller and Mr. X. W. Robinson for the motion.
XEr. Edward Roby opposing.
MR.

JUSTICE

PECKHAM delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error brought this action against one Jacob
Forsyth, in the Superior Court of Cook County, in the State of
VOL. CLXxvII--12

