OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and gas and the right of the owner to take them as an incident
of title in fee to the surface of the earth, as said by the Supreme
Court of Indiana, is ultimately but a regulation of real property,
and they must hence be treated as relating to the preservation
and protection of rights of an essentially local character. Considering this fact and the peculiar situation of the substances,
as well as the character of the rights of the surface owners, we
cannot say that the statute amounts to a taking of private property, when it is but a regulation by the State of Indiana of a
subject which especially comes within its laivful authority.
Ajftrned.

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 2).
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 83. Argued December 18, 19, 1899. - Decided April 9, 1900.

The judgment below in this case is affirmed for the reasons given in Ohio
Oil Company v. Indiana, ante, page 190.

THIs case was argued with No. 84, ante, 190, and by the
same counsel.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant below was sued for the sum of certain penalties imposed by law for allowing gas to escape into the atmospheric air from an oil and gas well. The statute by which
the penalties were imposed is the one we have considered and
passed on in an opinion this day delivered in Ohio Oil Co. v. Thdiana, No. .84, of this term. Tie defendant demurred to the
complaint, and when the demurrer was overruled answered.
The answer alleged that the statute imposing the penalties
was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, on
the same grounds which we have to-day disposed of in the
case.referred to, From a judgment awarding the penalties,

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 3).
Opinion of the Court.

which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana, this writ of error is prosecuted. For the reasons given
in case No. 84 the judgment is

Affirmed.

OHIO OIL COMPANY v. INDIANA (NO. 3).
INDIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
No. 85. Argued December 18, 19, 1899. -Decided

April 9, 1900.

given in Ohio
The judgment below in this case is affirmed for the reasons
190.
page
ante,
1,
No.
Indiana,
v.
Oil Company

THIS case was argued with No. 84, ante, 190, and by the same
counsel.

Mr.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Supreme Court of the State of Indiana affirmed a judgment of the trial court, awarding the sum of certain penalties
incurred by violating a statute of the State of Indiana which
came under our review in case No. 84, this day disposed of.
The opinion in that case is conclusive of every question here
arising, and for the reasons given in case INo. 84, the judgment is
I Affirmed.

