OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

THE ALBERT DUMOIS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 139, 272. Argued January 31, 1900.-Decided April 9, 1900.

In January, 1897, the navigation of the Mississippi River below New Orleans
was governed by the rules and regulations of 1864, (Rev. Stat. sec. 4233)
and also by the supervising inspectors' rules for Atlantic and Pacific inland waters.
A steamer ascending the Mississippi within 500 feet of the eastern bank,
made both colored lights of a descending steamer, approaching her " end
on, or nearly end on." She blew her a signal of two whistles and starboarded her wheel. Held: That she was in fault for so doing, and that
this was the primary cause for the collision which followed. Held also:
That the fact the descending steamer seemed to be nearer the eastern bank
and that her lights were confused with the lights of other vessels moored
to that bank, was not a "special circumstance" within the meaning of
Rule 24, rendering a departure from Rule 18 necessary "to avoid immediate danger," since if there were any danger at all, it was not an immediate one, or one which could not have been provided against by easing
the engines and slackening speed.
Exceptions to general rules of navigation are admitted with reluctance on
the part of courts, and only when an adherence to such rules must almot
necessarily result in a collision.
The descending steamer, running at a speed of twenty mile.' an hour, made
the white and red lights of the Dunois, the ascending steamer, upon her
port bow, and blew her a signal of one whistle to which the Dumois responded with a signal of two whistles, starboarded her helm, shut in her
red and exhibited her green light. Held: That the descending steamer,
the Argo, in view of her great speed, should at once upon observing the
faulty movement of the Dumois, have stopped and reversed, and that her
failure to do so was a fault contributing to the collision; and that the
damages should be divided.
While a steamer may be so built as to attain the utmost possible speed,
she ought also to be provided with such means of stopping or changing
her course as are commensurate with her great speed, and the very fact
of her being so fast and apparently uncontrollable is additional reason
for greater caution in her navigation.
The nineteenth rule, which declares that the vessel which has the other on
her own starboard side shall keep out of the way of the other," does not
absolve the preferred vessel from the duty of stopping and reversing, in
case of a faulty movement on the part of the other vessel.

THE ALBERT DUMOIS.
Statement of the Case.
The representatives of two passengers on the descending steamer who lost
their lives, filed a libel against the owner of the ascending steamer for
damages, and recovered. Held: That as both vessels were in fault, one
half of such damages should be deducted from the amount recovered from
the Dumois, notwithstanding that the local law gave no lien or privilege
upon the vessel itself.
The limited liability act applies to cases of personal injury and death, as
well as to those of loss of, or injury to, property.

was a libel in admiralty filed by Oscar M. Springer,
owner of the steamer Argo, a small vessel of forty-eight tons
burthen, against the steamship Albert Dumois, to rebover damages sustained by a collision between these two vessels in the
early morning of January 28, 1897, in the Mississippi River,
about eighty miles below the city of New Orleans. An ifitervening libel was also filed against the Dumois by the crew of
the Argo, to recover the value of their clothing lost by the collision.
Upon the seizure of the Dumois, one Anders Jakobsen, of
Christiana, Norway, appeared as claimant and owner, and on
February 3, 1897, filed a petition for a limitation of liability, in
which he also denied any negligence on behalf of the Dumois.
Upon the same day, Marie B. Bourgeois de Blesine, mother of
Faure de Blesine, a passenger on board the Argo, filed a libel
ipersoncm against Jakobsen, claiming damages for the death
of her son through the negligence of the Dumois. Her suit
was thereupon consolidated with that of Springer, and treated
as a petition against the stipulation given for the release of the
steamer under the proceedings for a limitation of liability. Upon
the appraisement of the Albert Dumois at the sum of $30,000,
and pending freight at the sum of $1333.75, and the filing of a
stipulation to pay these sums into court, an order was issued
enjoining further proceedings against the steamship and her
owner, and directing all persons claiming damages by reason of
the collision to appear before a commissioner and make proof
thereof.
On May 5, 1897, Genevieve Keplinger I-ester, widow of Harrigon P. Hester, a passenger on the Argo, and natural tutrix of
his minor child, filed an intervening petition under the limited
liability proceedings, claiming damages for the death of her
THIS

VOL. CLXXVIi-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

husband, and alleging that the same was caused solely through
the fault of the Dumois.
Thereafter, on December 16, 1897, Springer, as the owner of
the Argo, filed a surrender of his vessel and pending charter
money to the intervening claimants against the Dumois, and
prayed for relief under the limited liability act.
The case of the Argo as set forth in her libel, and answer to
the petition of the owner of the Dumois for a limitation of liability, was this: On January 27, 1897, at seven o'clock in the
evening, the Argo started from the port of New Orleans on a
trip to the jetties at the mouth of the Mississippi River. Upon
the following morning, about 12.40 A. m., while proceeding down
the middle of the river, at or near Oyster Bayou, the master
noticed the white and red lights of a steamer coming up stream
about 500 feet from the east bank and immediately gave a signal
of one blast of his whistle, signifying that he would turn to
starboard and pass on the port side of the approaching steamer,
to which the latter responded with two blasts of her whistle,
and began crossing the river, shutting out her red and showing
her green light. Thereupon the Argo promptly responded with
one blast of her whistle, still claiming, her right to pass on the
port side of the approaching steamer, and put her helm hard-aport to clear the Dunois, as she had the right to do, and as in
the judgment of her master it was best for her to do. Whereupon the Duinois continued her course across the river and blew
a danger signal of three blasts of her whistle, but too late to
avoid a collision, the Argo striking the Dumois while she was
crossing the Argo's bow about eight feet abaft her stem, causing the Argo to fill with water and sink about four minutes
thereafter, whereby she was totally lost and two of her passengers were drowned.
The case of the Dumois was that, while proceeding up the
Mississippi River, about half-past twelve at night, on a voyage
from Port Limon, Costa Rica, to New Orleans, with her full
complement of officers and seamen, she had reached a point in
the Mississippi .River,about eighty miles below the city of New
Orleans, and was proceeding up the river as close to the east
bank as it was safe for her to do, at a moderate speed of about

THE ALBERT DUMOIS.
Statement of the Case.

nine miles an hour, when her watch discovered the lights of a
steamer coming down the river close to the east bank, nearly
"head and head," but somewhat upon the starboard bow of the
Duinois; that the Dumois, before any signal was given by the
approaching steamer, gave two clear and distinct blasts of her
steam whistle, indicating that she desired to pass the Argo to the
left, starboard to starboard, and at the same time her wheel was
put to starboard. In answer, the Argo wrongfully responded
to this signal with one blast of her whistle. Thereupon the
pilot of the Dumnois, fearing that the Argo had misunderstood
his signal, immediately repeated it, and at once caused three or
more short blasts of her whistle to be given in quick succession,
to indicate danger, and at the same time stopped and badked
her engines; but the Argo neglected to stop and back, and kept
her course and speed until her pilot saw the green or starboard
light of the Dumois, when he attempted to pass her by putting
his wheel hard-a-port, which brought the Argo in collision with
the steamship, striking her at right angles on the starboard side,
about ten feet abaft the sten, from which collision the Argo
sank and became a total loss.
Upon a hearing upon pleadings and proofs the District Court
announced in an oral opinion its conclusion that the collision
was caused solely by the fault of the Dunmois, and awarded the
libellant Springer $11,000 for the loss of the Argo; to Mrs.
hester, $5000; to Mrs. de Blesine, $2500, and to the crew of
the Argo the respective sums claimed by them.
From this decree the owner of the Dumois appealed to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, assigning in substance as error that
the collision was caused through the sole fault of the Argo, and
that the amount awarded was excessive. An appeal was also
taken by Springer, claiming that the amount awarded him as
the value of the Argo was too small; but no appeal was taken
by the intervening libellants.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decree of the District Court, holding that both vessels were in fault for the collision, and that as between the owners of the steamships the
damages should be divided. It further increased the allowance
of damages to Springer to $15,000, and assessed those sustained

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

by the Dumois at $185. It was further decreed that Springer
recover $7,500 of the Dumois and her bondsmen, subject to a
credit of one half of the damages of the Dumois, and one half of
the amounts decreed in favor of Mrs. Iester and Mrs. do Blesine,
leaving a balance due upon this decree in favor of Springer of
$3657.50, for which he was awarded execution. 59 U. S. App.
108. Both parties filed petitions for rehearing, which were
denied.
Whereupon both parties applied for and were granted writs
of certiorari from this court.

lXfr. Ric ard De Gray and Ar. Timothy E. Tarsney for
Springer.
.Xr. Wilhelits Myndere for the Albert Dumois.
Mr. Joktn D. Rouse and 21r. William Grant filed a brief on
behalf of Jakobsen.
.Mr.George .Dengre,2.r. J.P. Blair and 2W.
.Den~grefiled a brief on behalf of Mrs. Hester.

Walter D.

MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

This collision occurred in January, 1897, in the Mississippi
River about eighty miles below New Orleans, and the steamers
in their signals and manoeuvers were governed by the original
rules and regulations of the act of 1864, reproduced in Rev. Stat.
ยง 4233. A brief review of the numerous acts subsequent thereto
upon the same subject will show that the act of 1.864 continued
in force upon the Mississippi River at the time of this collision.
1. The original act, now known as Rev. Stat. sec. 4233, was
adopted from the British Orders in Council of 1863, was made
of general application "in the navigation of vessels of the Navy
and of the mercantile marine of the United States," and was
supplemented by sees. 4412 and 4413, giving the board of supervising inspectors power to "establish such regulations to be

THE ALBERT DUMOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

observed by all steam vessels in passing each other, as they
shall from time to time deem necessary for safety."
This code remained in force substantially unaffected by legislation until March 3, 1885, when the "revised international
regulations for preventing collisions at sea" were adopted by
act of Congress, act of March 3, 1885, c. 354, 23 Stat. 438, and
made applicable to "the navigation of all public and private
vessels of the United Stites upon the high seas and in all coast
waters of the United States, except such as are otherwise provided for." By section two all laws inconsistent with these
rules were repealed, "except as to the navigation of such vessels
within the hdrbors,lakes and inlandwaters of the United States."

As to such waters, the original code of 1864 remained in force,
explained and supplemented by the rules of the supervising inspectors. The ilelaware, 161 U. S. 459, 463; The Yew York,
175 U. S. 187, 193.
On August 18, 1899, Congress adopted a new code "to be
followed by all public and private vessels of the United States
upon the high seas and in all waters connected therewith, navigable by seagoing vessels," act of August 10, 1890, 26 Stat. 320,
article thirtieth of which declared that "nothing in these rules
shall interfere with the operation of a special rule, duly made
by local authority, relative to the navigation of any harbor,
river or inland waters." The second section repealed all inconsistent laws, and the third section provided that the act
should take effect at a time to be fixed by the President by
proclamation issued for that purpose. This act was amended
by act of May 28, 1894, c. 83, 28 Stat. 82, providing certain lights
for small vessels. By another act of June 10, 1896, c. 401, 29
Stat. 381, amending the law with regard to signals, it was declared in the' second section that the original act as amended
should "take effect at a subsequent time to be fixed by the
President by proclamation," although another act approved
February 23, 1895, c. 127, 28 Stat. 680, had already provided
that it should take effect at a time to be fixed by the President. The President at first declared that the act should
take effect March 1, 1895, 28 Stat. 1250, which date was subsequently postponed by another proclamation, 28 Stat. 1259.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

By still another proclamation of December 31, 1896, 29 Stat.
885, it was declared that the act of August 19, 1890, as subsequently amended, should take effect July 1, 1897.
Meantime, however, and on February 8, 1895, 28 Stat. 645,
Congress passed another code, c. 64, to be "followed in the
navigation of all public and private vessels of the United
States upon the Great Lakes and their connecting and tributary waters as far east as Montreal," to take effect March 1,
1895. This act repealed the act of 1864 so far as it applied
to the Great Lakes and their connecting waters. All this
legislation, however, left the harbors, rivers 'and other inland
waters of the United States unaffected either by the acts of
1885, 1890 or 1895; and to make the intention of Congress
more certain in this particular, on February 19, 1895, c. 102,
28 Stat. 672, Congress enacted that the original
provisions of
sections 4233, 4412 and 4413 of the Revised Statutes, and
regulations of the supervising inspectors pursuant thereto,
shall be followed on the harbors, rivers and inland waters of
the United States, 'and the provisions of said -sections were
declared special rules duly made by local authority relative
to the navigation of such waters, as provided for in article
thirty of the act of August 19, 1890, above quoted. Section four provided that the words "inland waters" should
not be held to include the Great Lakes and their connecting
and tributary waters as far east as Montreal, and that the act
should not, in any respect, affect the act of February 8, 1895.
Finally on June 7, 1897, c. 4, 30 Stat. 96, Congress adopted a
set of regulations to be "followed by all vessels navigating all
harbors, rivers and inland waters of the United States, except
the Great Lakes and their connecting and tributary waters, as
far east as Montreal, and the Red River of the North and rivers
emptying into the Gulf of Mexico, and their tributaries." This
act, as well as that of August 19, 1890, adopting regulations for
preventing collisions at sea, was amended February 19, 1900, so
far as it related to lights on steam pilot vessels; but as this act
of 1897 was approved June 7, to take effect four months thereafter, it is unnecessary to consider to what waters it is applicable.
It certainly has no bearing upon this collision, which took place

THE ALBERT DUMOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

January 28, 1897, and is cited merely as a part of the history
of Congressional action upon the general subject.

The effect of all this legislation was at the time of the collision,
and perhaps is still, to leave the rivers emptying into the Gulf
of Mexico, subject to the provisions of the original act: Rev.
Stat. section 4233.
2. If the legislation of Congress in this connection be somewhat complicated, the result is at least clear that the navigation
of the Mississippi was subject to the original rules and regulations of Revised Statutes, ยง 4233 ; but the rules of the supervising inspectors, supplementary thereto, are ambiguous, and in
one respect quite difficult of interpretation. There are threo
sets of these rules: 1. Pilot rules for Atlantic and Pacific inland
waters; 2. Pilot rules for Western rivers; 3. Pilot rules for the
Great Lakes and their connecting tributary waters as far east as
Montreal. The third may be left out of consideration in this
case.
The pilot rules for Western rivers are entitled "Rules and
regulations for the government of pilots of steamers navigating
the Red River of the North and rivers whose waters flow into
the Gulf of Mexico, and their tributaries." There can be no
doubt whatever that these rules apply to the Mississippi and its
tributaries, and there could be no doubt that they applied to the
river below New Orleans, were it not for Rule XIV, which de.
clares that " the line dividing jurisdiction between the pilot rules
on Western riversand harbors, rivers and inland waters, at New
Orleans, shall be the lower limits of the city." This should
evidently'be construed as if it read: "The line dividing jurisdiction between the pilot rules on Western rivers and the pilot
rules on harbors, rivers and inland waters at New Orleans shall
be the lower limits of the city." This' excludes the Mississippi
below* New Orleans, and indicates that some other rules are
applicable.
But on referring to the pilot rules for the Atlantic and Pacific coast inland waters, we find them entitled "Rules and regulations for the government of pilots of steamers navigating
harbors, rivers and indand walers, (except the Great Lakes, the
Red River of the North, and rivers emptying into the Gulf of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Mexico and their tributaries,) when meeting or approaching
each other, whether by day or night, and as soon as fully within
sound of the steam whistle." Rule IX of these pilot rules contains the same provisions as Rule XIV of the pilot rules for
Western rivers, namely, that the line dividing jurisdiction between pilot rules on Western rivers and harbors and inland
waters at New Orleans shall be the lower limits of the city.
There could be no doubt whatever that the intention was to
divide the jurisdiction as to the Mississippi River between the
rules pplicable to Western rivers, and the rules for Atlantic
and Pacific coast inland waters, were it not for the fact that in
the entitling of these latter rules rivers emptying into the Gulf
of Mexico are excepted. But we are of opinion that these words
were intended as a general exception of the waters covered by
the pilot rules for Western rivers, and that they were not intended to apply to the Mississippi below Nev Orleans, in view
of the provision of both sets of rules that the pilot rules for
Western rivers should cease to be applicable at the lower limits
of that city. As New Orleans is practically the head of navigation for foreign trade, it was perfectly reasonable that the
supervising inspectors should apply to the lower Mississippi the
rules and regulations adopted for the harbors, rivers and inland
waters navigated by vessels engaged in foreign trade, While they
still left the regulations provided for Western rivers to remain
applicable to the Mississippi above New Orleans, where the
commerce is almost altogether domestic in its character. The
only alternative of this proposition is to hold that the supervising inspectors intended to exempt from their jurisdiction altogether the waters of the Mississippi below New Orleans, some
150 miles in length-a supposition so improbable that it must
be rejected at once. We hold, therefore, that the Atlantic and
Pacific coast rules apply to these waters.
Such being the rules and regulations applicable to this case,
we are remitted to the inquiry how far they were obeyed, and
how far disregarded by the vessels concerned in this collision.
The night was clear aud starlight, the river substantially straight
at this point and about half a mile wide, with no obstruction or
other special circumstances, under Rule 24, rendering a departure

THE ALBERT DUMOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

from the general rules necessary in order to avoid immediate
danger. In short, the conditions were all favorable to safety,
and the collision could not have occurred without egregious
fault on the part of one or both vessels. In endeavoring to
locate this fault we are at liberty to consider the movements of
each vessel from its own standpoint, and without attempting
to reconcile the conflicting statements of the two crews, or to
settle disputed questions of fact, to inquire upon the showing
made by each whether that vessel was guilty of fault contributing to the collision.
3. As to the Albert Dumois: She was a Norwegian vessel,
10 feet long, drawing 17 feet of water and was bound up the
river to New Orleans. While proceeding up the east side of
the river at a speed of about nine miles an hour, and from 250
to 500 feet from the east bank, she made directly ahead, and at a
probable distance of about half a mile, saw the white and colored
lights of the Argo coming down the river. Her theory of the
case was, and the entire testimony of her watch showed, that
the Argo was approaching her "end on, or nearly end on,"
within the meaning of Rule 18, which declares that "if two
vessels, under steam, are meeting end on or nearly end on, so as
to involve risk of collision, the helms of both shall be put to
port, so that each may pass on the port side of the other."
Notwithstanding this, however, the wheel of the Dumois was
put to starboard, and a signal of two whistles blown to the Argo,
manifesting an intention on the part of the Dumois to sheer out
into the river and pass the Argo starboard to starboard. Her
excuse for doing this was her own proximity to the east bank
and a cluster of white lights belonging to a tug and two luggers
inside of the Argo, and in fact moored to the east bank of the
river.
We cannot, however, accept this as a "special circumstance
within the meaning of Rule 241 rendering a departure from
Rule 18 necessary "to avoid immediate danger," since if there
were any danger at all it was not an immediate one, or one
which could not have been provided against by easing the engines of the Dumois and slackening her speed. Exceptions to
the general rules of navigation are admitted with reluctance on

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the-part of the courts, and only when an adherence to such rules
must almost necessarily.result in a collision-such, for instance,
as a manifestly wrong manoeuver on the part of an approaching
vessel. Belden v. Chase, 150 U. S. 674, 699; The Britannia,
153 U. S. 130; Thie Test, 5 Notes of Cases, 276; The &Sperior,
6 Notes of Cases, 607; The Eliedive, 5 App. Cases, 876; Thie
Benares, 9 Prob. Div. 16; Aarsden on Collisions, 480. As was
said in The John Buddle, 5 Notes of Cases, 387: "All rules are
framed for the benefit of ships navigating the seas, and, no
doubt, circumstances will arise in which it would be perfect
folly to attempt to carry into execution every rule, however
wisely framed. It is, at the same time, of the greatest possible
importance to adhere as closely as possible to established rules,
and never to allow a deviation from them unless the circumstances which are alleged to have rendered such a deviation
necessary, are most distinctly approved and established; otherwise, vessels would always be in doubt and doing wrong."
The case of Tlie Concordia, L. R. 1 Ad. & Ecc. 93, resembles
much the instant case in this particular. That was a collision
between two steam vessels meeting nearly end on in the river
Thames. Defendants alleged that the heln of their vessel
was put to starboard to avoid a barge. It was held that the
burden of proof that a departure from the rule, which required
both steamers to port, was necessary in order to avoid immediate danger, rested upon the defendants, and that in the absence
of sufficient evidence to show what became of the barge, the
defendants had failed in their proof, and were therefore in fault
for the collision, the result of not porting their'helm. See also
The Agra, L. R. 1 P. C. 501.
Manifestly the Argo had a right to rely upon the Dumois
pursuing the usual course of putting her helm to port, and her
failure to do so was likely to raise a doubt on the part of the
Argo as to her own duty, and to bring about the collision it
was designed to avoid. If, as insisted by the crew of the Argo,
the Dumois was nearer to the east bank than the descending
steamer, and exhibited to the latter her white and red lights
only, the fault of the Dumois in starboarding and crossing the
course of the Argo becomes still more manifest. The fact put

THE ALBERT DUMOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

forward by the pilot of the Dumois, that the Argo seemed so.
close to the luggoers that she appeared to be one of them, (although contradicted by the testimony of the libellant that the
Argo was in the middle of the river,) was one which undoubtedly called for caution on the part of the Dumois, but it did not
involve an immediate danger which justified a departure from
the general rule.
4. The Argo, a vessel of forty-eight tons burthen, 101 feet in
length and draving six feet of water, had been chartered by
some representatives of the press to meet, at the mouth of the
river, a Congressional committee sent to inspect the jetties, and
to report the proceedings of the committee. According to her
inspection certificate the Argo should have had one pilot, one
engineer and a crew of five men, but as they were in great
baste to get away, Messrs. Hester, Lindauer and Blesine, newspaper correspondents, all of whom were said to be familiar with
the management of water craft, agreed to enroll themselves as
part of the crew, and if necessary to lend a hand. Their assistance does not seem to have been of any great value, as they
all "turned in" immediately upon coming on board. The Argo left New Orleans about seven o'clock in the evening, having
on board a master, who also served as pilot, an engineer, a fireman, one deck hand and a steward, who also served as cook,
besides the newspaper correspondents. She took her course
down the river at a speed of about twenty miles an hour, and
at the time of making the lights of the Dumois was either in the
middle of the river or between that and the east bank. There
was conflict of evidence upon her exact location, but in the view
we have taken of the case it does not become necessary to determine this with accuracy. Her testimony indicates that she
made the white and red lights of the. Dumois upon her port
bow, and blew her a signal of one whistle; that the Dumois
responded with a signal of two whistles, starboarded her helm,
shut in her red and exhibited her green light, and took her
course across the path of the Argo. The Argo again blew her
a signal of one whistle, to which the Dumois again responded
with two, followed it with a danger signal, and the Argo, still
maintaining her great speed, put her wheel hard-a-port, struck

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the Dumois upon her starboard bow, and was herself almost
immediately sunk by the.force of the impact.
The master of the Argo excuses his failure to stop and reverse,
which it was his duty to do as soon as he saw the wrong mancouver of the Dumois, by the fact that the starboarding of the Dumois put him in a position in which he was obliged to decide
instantly what ought to be done; that, in the exercise of his
best judgment, he determined to put his helm hard-a-port, and
endeavor to cross the bows of the Dumois; and that, if he made
a mistake in this particular, it was an error in extregnis, for
which the Argo is not responsible. The argument is undoubtedly entitled to great weight, but we think the real error was
not committed in extremis. The theory of the Argo is that she
was coming down the middle of the river, and that she made
the Dumnois on her port bow exhibiting a red light. She was
running herself at twenty miles an hour, with the added force
of the current. The Dumois was running against the current
at the rate of nine miles an hour. Thai the Dumois must have
starboarded and shown her green light some time before the
Argo ported, is evident from the place of the collision, which
was to the westward of the middle of the river, and, upon the
theory of the Argo, was near the westerly bank. As the Dumois was within five hundred feet of the easterly bank when
she starboarded,--the river at that point being about 2500 feet
wide,-she must have run under her starboard helm about a
quarter of a mile before reaching the point of collision. Now,
if the Argo had promptly ported as soon as she heard the crosssignal or observed the starboarding of the Dumois, she would
inevitably have passed the point of intersection before the Dumois reached it. The fault of the Argo was not in the hard-aport -order when the collision was inevitable, but in failing to
stop and reverse at once as soon as she noticed the starboarding
of the Dumois. The testimony from the Dumois indicates that
she blew her first whistle and starboarded as soon as the Argo's
lights were seen, and that if the Argo had starboarded and reversed, the collision would not have occurred. The truth seems
to be that the Argo did not port when giving her first signal,
but waited for some time, and then put her hehn hard-a-port,
but too late to be of any avail.

THE ALBERT DUMOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

The testimony indicates that the Argo is chargeable with an
infraction of the third rule of the supervising inspectors in. failing to stop and reverse after receiving the cross-signals from the
Dumois. This rule requires that "if, when steamers are approaching each other, the pilot of either vessel fails to understand the course or intention of the other, whether from signals
being given or answered erroneously, or from other causes, the
pilot so in doubt shall immediately signify the same by giving
several short and repeated blasts of the steam whistle; and if
the vessels shall have approached within half a mile of each
other, both shall be immediately slowed to a speed barely sufficient for steerageway until the proper signals are given, answered and understood, or until the vessels shall have passed
each other. Vessels approaching each other from opposite directions are forbidden to use what has become technically known
among pilots as Icross-signals,'-that is, answering one whistle
with two, and two whistles with one. In all cases, and under
all circumstances, a pilot receiving either of the whistle signals
provided in rules, which for any reason he deems injudicious to
comply with, instead of answering with a cross-signal, must at
once observe the provisions of this rule."
The master also seeks to excuse himself by alleging that the
Argo was so constructed that her headway could not have been
stopped in time to be of any service. This may be true, and
yet the Dumois should not be held responsible for the faulty
construction of the Argo in this particular. While a steamer
may be so huilt as to attain the utmost possible speed, she ought
also to be provided with such means of stopping or changing
her course as are commensurate with her great speed; and the
very fact of her being so fast and apparently uncontrollable is
an additional reason for the greater caution in her navigation.
H1er increase of speed should have been obtained with as little
increase of risk to other vessels as was possible, and if any precautions in that direction were neglected, it was a fault for which
she alone ought to be called upon to respond. This court has
repeatedly held the fault, and even the gross fault of one vessel,
does not absolve the other from the use of such precautions as
good judgment and accomplished seamanship require. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Maria Martin, 12 Wall. 31; Tlie America, 92 U. S. 432; The
Lucille, 15 Wall. 676; TIte Stamy8ide, 91 U. S. 208.
But counsel for the Argo also insists that, as the two vessels,
from the moment the Argo ported and the Dumois starboarded,
were upon crossing courses, the nineteenth rule which declares
that "the vessel which has the other on her own starboard side
shall keep out of the way of the other," applied, and that the
Dumois should have ported, and the Argo was bound, under
the case of 1/ke Britagmia,153 U. S. 130, to keep her course and
speed. We are reluctant, however, to say that, where two vessels are meeting end on or nearly end on, under the 18th rule,
the faulty movement of starboarding by one absolves the other
from the obligation of Rule 21, which requires that "every
steam vessel, when approaching another vessel, so as to involve
risk of collision, shall slacken her speed, or, if necessary, stop
and reverse."
In the case of Tlie Brictnnia,the decision of the court that of
two crossing steamers the preferred vessel should have kept
her course and speed, was put upon the ground that the course
of the Britannia, the obligated vessel, was precisely what might
have been anticipated, and did not warrant the Beaconsfield,
the preferred vessel, in disregarding the injunctions of the
twenty-third rule, which required her to keep her course. It
was intimated that a different conclusion might have been
reached if it had appeared that the Britannia was herself violating a rule of navigation. Now, as it appears from the testimony of the Argo's crew that they not only heard the signal
of two whistles from the Dumois, but saw her turn under her
starboard wheel, and exhibit her green light when she should
have ported, they were at once apprised of the fact that she
was violating a rule of navigation, and that prompt action was
required to avoid a collision.
The fact that the Argo was short handed and was also running without a proper lookout, though not decisive of a fault
contributing to the collision, may be taken into consideration
as bearing upon the probabilities of the case, and raising a presumption against her.
We are of opinion that the Dumois was primarily in fault

THE ALBERT DUMOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

for this collision, in starboarding: instead of porting when she
first sighted the Argo; and while the case with respect to the
Argo is by no means free from doubt, the majority of the court
are also of opinion that the Argo was in fault for failing to observe the twenty-first rule, which required her to stop when
risk of collision was involved, as well as the third rule of the
supervising inspectors to the same effect.
5. There was no error in fixing the value of the Argo at the
sum of $15,000-an increase of $4000 over the amount fixed
by the District Court. The evidence of her builders was that
she originally cost $18,000, and that, if she had been kept in
good repair, she would have been worth two thirds of that
amount at the time of the collision. There was also testimony
to the effect that her owner had, at the time of the collision,
concluded a sale of one half the Argo for $7500, and that it
was to have been delivered and the money paid for this moiety
on the day following that upon which she was lost, and upon
her return to the city. This is better evidence of her actual
value than the conflicting opinions of experts more or less
friendly to the owner, who put her value at from $8500 to
$30,000. As the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals agreed that her value did not exceed $15,000, we should
be unwilling to increase that amount unless upon clear proof
of inadvertence or mistake.
There was no error in refusing to allow interest upon her
valuation. The allowance of interest in admiralty cases is discretionary, and not reviewable in thi court except in a very
clear case. The Scotland, 118 U. S. 507, 518.
6. In the assessment of damages an important question arose
as to whether a moiety of the amounts awarded to Mrs. Blesine
and Mrs. Hester should be deducted from the amount recoverable by the owners of the Argo. The libel of Mrs. Blesine was
filed against Jakobsen as owner of the Dumois, and process of
attachment prayed against his goods and chattels, credits and
effects. This libel, subsequently consolidated with that of
Springer, was treated as a petition against the bond given for
the release of the steamer under the proceedings for a limited
liability. A similar petition wag filed by Mrs. Hester. In the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

following December, Springer, the libellant and owner of the
Argo, surrendered to the claimants and intervenors his vessel
and the freight. These intervening libels, as well as that of the
seamen, proceeded as one suit, and in the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals Mrs. lilesine was awarded $2500 and Mrs.
Hester $5000, one half of which was deducted from the amount
awarded to Springer.
Admitting that if these intervening libels had been filed
against Springer as owner of the Argo, nothing could have been
recovered of him by reason of the total loss of the Argo and
her freight, and the consequent extinguishment of personal liability on the part of the owner, does it follow that the Dumois
is not entitled to deduct from the amount awarded to the Argo;
or, in other words, to recover of the Argo one half of the amount
payable to these libellants, in view of the fact that the Argo
was also in fault ? We think this question is practically answered by prior decisions of this court.
The case of T/ie North Star, 106 U. S. 17, arose from the
mutual fault of two steamers, in which one, the Ella Warley,
was totally lost. The court awarded the owners of the Ella
Warley so much of their damage as exceeded one half of the
aggregate damage sustained by both vessels. The owners of
the Warley contended that, as she was a total loss, her owners
were not liable at all, and that they were entitled to one half of
their damages in full, without deduction for the half of the
damage sustained by the North Star, the other vessel. We
held, however, that the admiralty rule that where both vessels
are in fault they must bear the damage equally, applied, and
that the one suffering least should be decreed to pay to the
other the amount necessary to make them equal, namely, one
half of the difference between the respective losses sustained,
and that when this resulting liability of one party to the other
has been ascertained, then, and not before, was the proper time
to apply the rule of limited responsibility, if the party decreed
to pay is entitled to it. "It will enable him to avoid payment
pro tanto of the balance found against him." "The contrary
view," said the court, "is based on the idea that, theoretically,
(supposing both vessels in fault,) the ovners of one are liable. to

THE ALBERT DUMOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

the owners of the other for one half of the damage sustained by
the latter ; and, vice versa, that the owners of the latter are liable to those of the former for one half of the damages sustained
by her. This, it seems to us, is not a true account of the legal
These authorities conclusively
relations of the parties....
show that according to the general maritine law, in cases of
collision occurring by the fault of both parties, the entire
damage to both ships is added together in one conmnon mass
and equally divided between them, and thereupon arises a liability of one party to pay to the other such sum as is necessary
to equalize the burden. This is the rule of mutual liability between the parties."
In The C/alta,oochee,173 U. S. 540, which was also a collision occasioned by the nmutual fault of a steamer and a
schooner, followed by a total loss of the latter, the survivor
was permitted to deduct from one half of the damages recovered for the loss of the vessel one half of the value of the
cargo of the latter, notwithstanding the total loss of the
schooner, and the fact that under the Ifarter act she would
not have been liable to the owner of the cargo for negligence
in navigation. We held in that case that the sunken vessel
was not entitled to the benefit of any statute tending to lessen
its liability to the other vessel, or to an increase of the burden
of such other vessel, until the amount of such liability had been
fixed upon the principle of an equal division of damages.
The case under consideration is distinguishable from this
only in the fact that the intervening libels are for loss of life,
for which no lien is given upon the vessel in the absence of a
local law to that effect, while in the case of The Chattahoocliee
the libel sought to recover for the loss of the cargo, for which
a lien was given by the law maritime upon the vessels in fault.
Assuming for the present that the question of liei1 is material, we are next to inquire whether such lien is given by the
local law of Louisiana. We are cited in this connection to
two articles of the Civil Code, the first of which, Art. 2315, as
amended in 1884, declares that "every act whatever of man
that causes damages to another, obliges him by whose fault it
happened to repair it; the right of this action shall survive, in
voL. cmixxvn -- 17

'OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

case of death, in favor of the minor children or widow of the
deceased, or either of them, and in default of these, in favor
of the surviving father and mother, or either of them, for the
space of one year from the death. The survivors above mentioned may also recover the damages sustained by them by the
death of the parent, or child, or husband, or wife, as the case
may be."
It was held by us in Thec Corsair, 145 U. S. 335, a case arising out of a collision which also took place on the lower Alississippi, that this local law did not give a lien or privilege upon
the vessel, and that nothing more was contemlplated by it than
an ordinary action according to the course of the law as administered in Louisiana.
Our attention is also called by the owners of the Dumois to
subdivision 12 of Art. 3237 of the Civil Code, which reads as
follows: "Where any loss or damage has been caused to the
person or property of any individual by any carelessness, neglect or want of sl~ill in the direction or management of any
steamboat, barge, flatboat, water craft or raft, the party injured shall have a privilege to rank after the privileges above
specified." No reliance was placed upon this article in the
case of The Corsair,probably because it was thought to refer
only to losses or damages to persons still living, and that an
action would lie in favor of the party injured. Certainly, if
this article had been supposed to give a remedy for damages
occasioned by death, to the representatives of the deceased
person, it would never have escaped the attention of the astute
counsel who participated in that case.
The question whether "damage done by any ship," jurisdiction over which was given to the High Court of Admiralty in
England, included actions brought by the personal representatives of seamen or passengers killed in a collision, has been the
subject of many and conflicting judicial opinions in the English courts, a summary of which may be found in -The Corsair,
145 U. S. 345, and was finally settled against the jurisdiction
by the House of Lords in the case of Thie -Franconia,10 App.
Cases, 59.
In this country the law is so well settled that by the common

THE ALBERT DUMOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

law no civil action lies for an injury resulting in death, that we
need only refer to the case of Instwance Co. v. Brame, 95 U. S.
754, and to the same doctrine applied in admiralty in the case
of I/ie Hlarrisbarg,119 U. S. 199. The object of Article 3237
was not to extend the cases in which damages might be recovcred to such as resulted in death, but merely to provide that,
in cases of damages to person or property, where such damage
was occasioned by negligence in the management of any water
craft, the party injured should have a privilege or lien upon such
craft. We deemn it entirely clear that tle article was not intended to apply to eases brought by the representatives of a
deceased person for damages resulting in (eath.
But it does not necessarily follow that because there is no
lien there can be no deduction of a moiety of these damages
from the sum awarded to the Argo. Neither the case of T11e
Norlh Star nor that of T/e (/tattabooc/hee is put upon the
ground of a lien, since in both cases the vessel against which
the deductions were made were totally lost by the collision,
and in Y/he C]attahoo/ltee the provisions of the Iarter act
would have exonerated her, even if no total loss had occurred.
But no extended discussion of this is necessary, since the question is settled by the case of Buitler v. Boston and Sacan nah
Sleamship Co., 130 U. S. 527, in which it was unanimously
held that the limited liability act applied to cases of personal
injury and death, as well as to those of loss of, or injury to,
property. This was an independent libel in. persozan against
the steamship company to recover damages for death, and the
company pleaded in defence certain proceedings in a case of
limited liability instituted by it and then pending. There was
a statute of Massachusetts relied upon, which gave a personal
remedy but no lien upon the vessel. The loss occurred within
the jurisdiction of that State. The single question presented
was whether the limited liability act applied to damages for
personal injury and loss of life, and thus deprived those entitled to damages of the right to entertain suit for recovery,
provided the ship owner had taken appropriate proceedings
to limit his liability. The court, after a careful examination
of the law of limited liability of ship owners, had no difficulty

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

in reaching the conclusion that it covered the case of injuries
to persons as well as that of injury to goods and merchandise,
and that these proceedings were a good defense to the libel.
It follows that the claims of the intervening libellants, Mrs.

Blesine and Mrs. Hester, were valid claims under the limited
liability act, notwithstanding that there was no lien under the
local law, and that there was no error in deducting a moiety of
these claims from the amount awarded Springer.
Upon the whole case we are of opinion that the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals was right, and it is therefore, as
to both cases,
Ajfirnmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissented.

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. WITHERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 170. Argued March 6, 1900. -Decided

April 9, 1900.

By the rules of the beneficial or insurance branch of the Supreme Lodge
Knights of Pythias, persons holding certificates of endowment or insurance were required to make their monthly payments to the Secretary of
the subordinate section before the tenth day of each month ; and it was
made the duty of the Secretary to forward such monthly payments at
once to the Board of Control. If such dues were not received by the
Board of Control on or before the last day of the month, all members of
the section stood suspended and their certificates forfeited, with the right
to regain their privileges if the amounts were paid within thirty days
after the suspension of the section; provided, no deaths had occurred in
the meantime. There was a further provision that the section should be
responsible to the Board of Control for all moneys collected, and that the
officers of the section should be regarded as the agents of the members,
and not of the Board of Control. The insured made his paynents promptly,
but the Secretary of the section delayed the remittance to the Board of
Control until the last day of the month, so that such remittance was not
receivced until the fourth day of the following month. The insured in the
meantime died. Holti" Tha he Suprem Iodge having undertaken to

