JAMESTOWN AND NORTHERN RD. CO. v. JONES. 125
Statement of the Case.

JAMESTOWN AND NORTHERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. JONES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 142. Argued February 1, 1900.-Decided March 26, 1900.

Under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 152, "granting to the railroads the right
of way through the public lands of the United States," such grant to the
plaintiff in error took effect upon the construction of its road.

Tis suit was brought by plaintiff in error to have itself adjudged the owner of a right of way over the northwest quarter
of section eight, in township one hundred and forty-one, of
range 64, in the county of Stutsman, State of North Dakota.
Its title rests upon the act of Congress of March 3, 1875,
c. 152, 18 Stat. 482, entitled, "An act granting to railroads the
right of way through the public lands of the United States."
The plaintiff was organized September 17, 1881, under the
laws of the Territory of Dakota. After its organization it surveyed a line of route for its railroad from a point near Jamestown in a northwesterly direction through the county of Stutsman and over the land in controversy. The survey was finished
the 30th of October, 1881. A map representing the survey was
made by a resolution of the board of directors, and was adopted
as the definite route of the railroad.
In 1882 the road was constructed upon the line surveyed, and
since that time trains have been continuously run over it by the
plaintiff.
On the 26th of January, 1883, the plaintiff filed with the
Secretary of the Interior a copy of its articles of incorporation,
and due proofs of its organization under the same. On the
13th of March, 1883, plaintiff's map of definite location was
filed and approved by the Secretary of the Interior. There was
some uncertainty in the evidence whether such map was ever
filed in the office of the register of the local land office, but it
probably was.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

On the 12th of February, 1881, the land then being public
land of the United States, duly surveyed, one Sherman Jones
filed a declaratory statement upon it, alleging settlement the
8th of February, 1881. On the 13th of March, 1883, it had
not been cancelled or vacated.
On the 26th of May, 1882, one William S. King filed a declaratory statement on the land, which on the 13th of March,
1883, had not been cancelled.
In addition to the above the trial court found the following
facts:
"On the 7th day of March, A. D.-1883, one Ella Sharp filed
in said land office an application to be allowed to enter said
tract under the homestead law, together with the affidavit required by law. Said application was received and entered at
said land office and continued in force until, ont the 21st day of
November, 1892, it was cancelled at said land office by relinquishment.
"On the 23d day of February, A. D. 1883, the defendant, T. J.
Jones, was a citizen of the United States and over the age of
twenty-one years. On that day, intending to purchase said
tract under the preemption laws, he built a house thereon; on
the 3d day of March of said year he commenced living in said
house, and from that day continuously to the present has resided
on said land and has cultivated and improved the same. On
June 5, 1883, he filed in said land office at Fargo a declaratory
statement under the pre~mption law, alleging settlement on
said land on March 3, 1883. He afterward applied to said land
office to be allowed to make proof under his declaratory statement, but owing to the existence of said prior homestead entry
of Ella Sharp said application was refused. In November, 1892,
he secured from said Ella Sharp a relinquishment of her homestead entry, and on the 21st day of November, 1892, the same
date said entry was canceled by relinquishment, he made application to said land office to be allowed to change his preemption entry upon said tract into a homestead entry. Said
application was received at said land office, the entry allowed
and numbered 20,234, and a receiver's receipt bearing the same
number issued to said defendant. Afterward, on the 21st day

JAMESTOWN AND NORTHERN RD. CO. v. JONES. 127
Statement of the Case.

of January, A. D. 1893, he made final proof for said land under
the homestead law, and on February 18, 1893, a final receiver's
receipt, numbered 7233, was issued to him by said land office
at Fargo. On the 26th day of May, 1893, a patent in due form,
vhereby the United States conveyed and granted said land to
said defendant, was issued to and received by him. There was
not in said receiver's receipt or final certificate, or in said patent
for said tract, a reservation of any vested or accrued right, claim
or interest to said land on the part of the plaintiff or of any
person or corporation under the act of Congress of March 3,
1875. At the time defendant settled upon said land plaintiff
was and ever since has been engaged in operating a line of railroad thereover.
"The plaintiff has not at any time instituted proceedings or
resorted to any process whatever under state or Federal laws
to condemn a right of way across said land or to divest defendant of his title or any possessory right that he might have to
said land.
"Plaintiff has taken for its use as a right of way upon said
land a strip one hundred feet wide, being fifty feet on each
side of the central line of its railroad tract, and extending diagonally across said land from a point about the middle of its
south boundary to a point near its northwest corner. Said strip
includes about six acres of said land. The land not taken is
divided into two unequal parts and its value for farming purposes decreased. Trains of cars are drawn by plaintiff over and
across said land every day, and the crop on defendant's land is
injured by smoke from said railroad, and his buildings and crops
subjected to increased hazard of destruction by fire. By the
taking of said strip for a right of way and the construction
and operation of a railroad thereon the said land is depreciated
in value in the sum of three hundred dollars.
"Defendant has not at any time consented to the taking or
use of said land by plaintiff, and has not received any compensation for said taking or for the injury and damage inflicted
thereby."
As conclusions of law the court found that no right of way
accrued until March 13, i883, the date of the filing of the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

file map of the road; that prior to that time the land had
ceased to be public land by reason of the preemption and
homestead entries which had been filed upon it; that the defendlant, T. J. Jones, was the owner in fee of said land without
reservation of any kind, and that his title related back to February 23, 1883, the date of his settlement thereon.
Judgment was entered dismissing plaintiff's cause of action,
awarding the defendant three hundred dollars, and costs taxed
at $24.65, and that "upon the payment to the defendant o*fthe
suni of three hundred dollars and the costs of this action there
shall vest in the plaintiff, Jamestown and Northern Railroad
Company, and its successors and assigns, the full legal title to
that portion of the northeast quarter of section 8, township 141,
range 64, used by it as a right of way, to wit, fifty feet on each
side of the center line of said railroad, as the same has been
heretofore constructed and is now located and operated through
said land by said plaintiff."
Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of the State the judgment was affirmed (7 N. D. 619) and this writ of error was
then sued out.
Xr. A. B. Browne for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE

MO0KENNA, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
In the summer of 1882 the plaintiff in error constructed its
railroad across the land in controversy, and the finding of the
court is that "1at the time defendant settled upon said land
plaintiff was and ever since has been engaged in operating a
line of railroad thereover."
The defendant nevertheless was awarded three hundred dollars damages, and the plaintiff adjudged to have acquired no
rights whatever by the construction of its road.
The act of 1875, upon which plaintiff relies, is as follows:
"That the right of way through the public lands of the

JAMESTOWN AND NORTHERN RD. CO. v. JONES. 129
Opinion of the Court.

United States is hereby granted to any railway company duly
organized under the laws of any State or Territory, except the
District of Columbia, or by the Congress of the United States,
which shall have filed with the Secretary of the Interior a copy
of its articles of incorporation, and due proof of its organization
under the same, to the extent of one hundred feet on each side
of the central line of said road;
"Also the right to take from the public lands adjacent to
the line of said road, material, earth, stone and timber necessary
for the construction of said railroad;
"Also ground adjacent to such right of way for station
buildings, depots, machine shops, side tracksi turnouts and
water stations, not to exceed in amount twenty acres for each
station, to the extent of one station for each ten miles of its
road.
"SEc. 3. That the legislature of the proper' territory may
provide for the manner in which private lands and possessory
claims on the public lands may be condemned; and where such
provision shall not have been made, such condemnation may
be made in accordance with section 3 of the hct entitled 'An
act to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line
from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, and to secure to
the government the use of the same for postal, military and
other purposes, approved July 1, 1862,' approved July 1, 1864.
"SEc. 4. That any railroad company desiring to secure the
benefits of this act shall, within twelve months after the location of any section of twenty miles of its road, if the same be
upon surveyed lands, and if upon unsurveyed lands, within
twelve months after the survey thereof by the United States,
file with the register of the land office for the district where
such land is located a profile of its road; and upon approval
thereof by the Secretary of the Interior the same shall be noted
upon the plats in said office; and thereafter all such lands over
which such right of way shall pass shall be disposed of subject
to such right of way: Provided, That if any section of said
road shall not be completed within five years after the location
VOL. CLXXII-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of said section, the rights herein granted shall oe forfeited as
to any such urcompleted section of said road..
"SEc. 5. That this act shall not apply to any lands within
the limits of any military park-or Indian reservation, or other
lands especially reserved for sale .....
"
There is some uncertainty in the act. Its first section is expressed in words of present grant, but there is.no definite
grantee. We said in Hill v. Russell, 101 U. S. 503, 509:
"There cannot be a grant unless there is a grantee, and consequently there cannot be a present grait unless there is a present
grantee." And it was further said that in all cases where a
grant was given a present effect, a State or some other corporation having all of the qualifications specified in the act had
been designated as a grantee. In other words, when an immediate grant was intended an immediate grantee having all the
requisite qualifications was named. In NYoble v. Railroad
Co., 147 U. S. 165, we said: "The language of that section is
'that the right of way through the public lands of the United
States is hereby granted to any railroad company duly organized under the laws of any State or Territory,' etc. The uniform rule of this court has been that such an act was a grant
inyresenti of lands to be thereafter identified. Railway Co.
v. Alling, 99 U. S. 463."
This case establishes that a railroad company becomes specifically a grantee by filing its articles of incorporation and
due proofs of its organization under the same with the Secretary of the Interior. It was also so held by Mr. Secretary
Vilas in Dakota Central Railroad Co. v. Downey, 8 Laind De
cisions, 115.
But what constitutes a definite location of the right of way?
Upon the answer to that question the piesent controversy
hinges. The State courts decided, as we have seen, that the
right of way only became definitely located by the filing of a
profile map of the road. The contention of the plaintiff in
error is that the right of way may be definitely located by the
actual construction of the road. And this was the ruling of
the Interior Department in Dakota v. Downey, supra, and the
ruling has been subsequently adhered to. St. Paul, Minneayj-

JAMESTOWN AND NORTHERN RD. CO. v. JONES. 131
Opinion of the Court.

olis & Manitoba Ry. Co. v. Maloney et al., 24 Land Decisions,
460; Montana Central Rd. Co., 25 Land Decisions, 250; St.
Paul & iJfinneapolisRy. Co., 26 Land Decisions, 83.
The ruling gives a practical operation to the statute, and we
think is correct. It enables the railroad company to secure the
grant by an actual construction of its road, or in advance of
construction by filing a map as provided in section four. Actual construction of the road is certainly unmistakable evidence
and notice of appropriation.
Secretary Vilas said in Dakota Central P. IR. Co. v. Downey:
"As to the roadway the construction of the road fixes the
boundaries of the grant, and fixes it by the exact rule of the
statute. . . . This must undoubtedly be the rule when the
road is constructed over unsurveyed lands, because then every
condition necessary to the vigor of the present grant is complied with. The fact that the railroad company may locate
and construct its road upon unsurveyed lands is clearly recognized in the fourth section of the act; and the regulations of
the department have been made to apply to such cases, and
authorize such construction.
"It seems to me that the fourth section of the act was written
for another purpose and for another case. It relates to a case
of a railroad company which desires to secure the present
grant, and give to it fixity of location, before its road shall be
constructed; and it is designed to provide a similar privilege in
respect to rights of way which acts granting lands to aid in
the construction of railroads have provided - namely, the privilege of giving fixity of location to the subject of the grant
before construction of the road.
"It' does not become necessary for a road which has secured
the benefits of this act, by taking the steps which give it the
attitude of being named in the first section as a grantee, and
by building a road through the public lands, whereby the subject of the grant has been defined, to file a map of definite
location in order to entitle it to the benefits of the right of way.
"The fourth section is designed to provide a mode by which
fixity of location can be scoured to a grantee, in antieipaeion

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of that construction by which location is defined in the section
making the grant, and which shall have the effect, before the
construction of the road, which the terms of the grant limit to
the 'central line of said road,' which only means- without the
fourth section- a constructed road."
This decision and the subsequent decisions of the Interior
Department were concerned with cases of construction on unsurveyed land, but we think the power applies also to surveyed
lands. The only difference which the act of Congress makes
between surveyed and unsurveyed land is the provision in section four for filing the profile of the road.
It follows from these views that the grant to plaintiff in error
by the act of 1875 became definitely fixed by the actual construction of its road, and that the entry of the defendant in
error was subject thereto.
This conclusion does not conflict with the doctrine announced
in Van Wyck v. Jcnevals, 106 U. S. 360, and in Kansas Pacife
Railway Co. v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629, that the title to lands
passing under railroad land grants is considered as established
at the date of the filing of the map of definite location. The
same question is not here presented. Different considerations
apply to the grant of lands than to the grant of the right of
way.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of North Dakota is
therefore reversed, and the case is remanded for further
_proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

