TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
Statement of the Case.

TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
ORIGINAL.
No. II, original. Submitted April 17, 1900.-Decided April 30, 1900.

A decree is entered, ordering the appointment of commissioners to ascertain, re-trace, re-mark and re,stablish the boundary line between the
States of Virginia and Tennessee, as established by the decree of this
court in Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503, but without authority to
run or establish any other or new line.

ON the 16th day of April, 1900, the State of Tennessee, having obtained leave so to do, filed its bill of complaint against
the State of Virginia, setting forth the result of the suit of
Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S.503, establishing the boundary
line between the two States; that a subsequent attempt made
to have the line run according to the decree in that suit had
failed because the power of the court over the original cause
had ceased with the expiration of October Term, 1893, Virginia
v. Tennessee, 158 U. S.267; and asking that the State of Virginia be made a party defendapt, and be required to answer
the bill, and that, upon the hearing a decree be entered, ordering a re-running of the boundary line as declared in Virginia
v. Tennessee, 148 U. S.503-528.
On the same 16th day of April, the State of Virginia appeared
and filed an answer in which it said that it fully accepted the
adjudication of this court in Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S.
503, that the true boundary line between the two States was
the compromise line of 1803, commonly called the diamond
line, and believed that that line should be ascertained, re-located
and re-marked by suitable and enduring monuments and concurred so far in the prayer of the State of Tennessee that this
court should appoint commissioners, residents of neither Tennessee nor Virginia, to perform the work of re-locating, retracing and re-marking that compromise line. On the 17th day
of the same April the parties entered into the following stipulation :

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.

"It is agreed by the parties to this cause as a basis for decree:
"1. That the true boundary line between the States of Virginia and Tennessee is the compromise line established by proceedings had by the two States in 1801-1803, which was actually
run and located at that time and marked with five chops in the
shape of a diamond, and commonly called the diamond line,
and running from White Top Mountain to Cumberland Gap.
"2. That said line has in some parts of it, if not along its
entire course, become so far obscured and uncertain as to embarrass the administration of the state and Federal laws and
produce confusion as to rights of property and conflict and litigation between the &tizens of the two States and to necessitate
its ascertainment, re-iunning and re-marking.
"3. That a decree be passed at once by this court providing
for the ascertainmeht, re-tracing and re-marking of said line.
"4. That the names W. C. Hodgkins, A. H. Buchanan and
J. B. Baylor are suggested and agreed upon as satisfactory commissioners to be appointed by this court to ascertain, re-trace and
re-mark said line.
"5. That the record and opinion of the supreme court of
Virginia in the case of filler v. Wills shall not be considered
as any part of the pleadings -in this cause, and need not therefore be printed.
"6. That whatever costs may be required to be borne by the
said States shall be equally borne and divided between them.
"April 17, 1900.
" THE STATE OF TENNESSEE,

"By G. W.

PICKLE,

Att'y Gen'l.

" THE STATE OF VIRGINIA)

"By

A. J.

MONTAGUE,

"Attorney General."
On the same 17th day of April the cause was submitted to
the court by the respective counsel.
Yr. G. W, Pickle, Attorney General of the State of Tennessee, for Tennessee.
Mr. A. J.Montague, Attorney General of the State of Virginia, for Virginia.

TENNESSEE v. VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

announced that the court ordered
the following decree to be entered:
Mr. CHIEF JUSTicE FULLER

This cause coming on to be heard on the original bill filed
herein by the State of Tennessee against the State of Virginia,
the answer thereto by the State of Virginia, the reply to said
answer by the State of Tennessee, and the stipulations filed
herein by counsel for the respective parties; and the pleadings
and stipulations having been duly considered, and the decree of
this court entered on the third day of April, A. D. 1893, at the
October term, 1892, in a certain original cause in equity, wherein
the State of Virginia was complainant and the State of Tennessee was defendant, and the record of said cause, having been
examined:
It is, thereupon, this thirtieth day of April, 1900, ordered, adjudged and decreed that the boundary line established between
the States of Virginia and Tennessee by the compact of 1803,
between the said States, is the real, certain and true boundary
between the said States, which boundary line was actually run
and located under proceedings had by the two States in 18011803, was then marked with five chops in the shape of a diamond, was commonly known as the diamond line, and ran from
White Top Mountain to Cumberland Gap.
And it appearing further to the court that the said boundary
line has become so far obscured by lapse of time or loss of monuments as to justify and necessitate its reestablishment and remarking under the direction of this court, it is, therefore, further
ordered, adjudged and decreed that William C. Hodgkins of the
State of Massachusetts James B. Baylor of the State of Virginia; and Andrew H. Buchanan of the State of Tennessee be
and they are hereby appointed commissioners to ascertain, retrace, re-mark and restablish said boundary line, but without
authority to run or establish any other or new line.
And it is further ordered that before entering upon the discharge of their duties, each of the said commissioners shall be
duly sworn to perform faithfully, impartially, without prejudice
or bias, the duties herein imposed, said oath to be taken before
the clerk of this court, or before either of the clerks of the Circuit Court of the United States for the States of Massachusetts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Virginia or Tennessee, and returned with their report; that
said commissioners may arrange for their organization, their
meetings, and the particular manner of the performance of their
duties; and are authorized to adopt all ordinary and legitimate
methods for the ascertainmen-t of the true location of said boundary line, including the taking of evidence; but in the event evidence is taken, the parties shall be notified and permitted to be
present and examine and cross-examine the witnesses, and the
rules of law as to admissibility and competency shall be observed; and all evidence taken by the commissioners, and all
exceptions thereto, and action thereon, shall be preserved and
certified, and returned with their report.
And when the true location of said boundary line is ascertained, said commissioners shall cause such marks and monuments of a durable nature to be so placed on and along said line
as to perpetuate it, and enable the citizens of each State, and
others, to find it with reasonable diligence.
It is further ordered that the clerk of this court at once forward
to the chief magistrate of each of said states, and to each of the
commissioners designated by this decree, a copy of the decree
duly authenticated, and that the commissioners proceed with
all convenient speed to discharge their duty in ascertaining, retracing, re-marking and reestablishing said line, as herein directed, and make their report thereof and of their proceedings
in the premises to this court, on or before the first day of the
next term thereof, together with a complete bill of costs and
charges annexed.
And it is further ordered that, should vacancies occur in said
board of commissioners, while the court is not in session, the Chief
Justice is hereby authorized and empowered to appoint other
commissioners, to supply the same, and he i authorized to act
on such information in the premises as may be satisfactory to
himself.
It is further ordered that all costs of this proceeding, including remuneration not exceeding ten dollars per day for each
commissioner, and the other costs incident to the ascertaining,
re-tracing, re-marking and re~stablishing said line, shall be paid
by the States of Tennessee and Virginia equally.
Oidered accordingly.

