OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

(for it was a joint contract between White, the applicant, and
McDonald,) testified that Mr. White, paying expenses, did so
under an agreement that he was to have half of the land. We
do not stop to inquire whether an agreement to give a mortgage
for money advanced comes within the letter or spirit of the
statute, for there was enough in the testimony to justify the
conclusion of the department that it was a contract to divide
the land when obtained, and it is not the province of the courts
to review such finding of fact.
These are the only questions which we deem of importance,
and finding no error in the record the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Minnesota is
Affirmed.

KEIM v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 57.

Submitted March 5,1900. -Decided

April 9, 1900.

Keim was honorably discharged from the military service by reason of disability resulting from injuries received in it. Ile passed tie civil service
examination, and, after service in the Post Office Department, was transferred to the Department of the Interior at his own request. Soon after
he was discharged because his rating was inefficient. No other charge
was made against him. Held that the courts of the United States could
not supervise the action of the head of the Department of the Interior in
discharging him.

Tins case comes on appeal from a decree of the Court of
Claims dismissing appellant's petition. 33 C. Cl. 174. The
findings of that court show that petitioner was on April 17, 1865,
honorably discharged from the military service of the United
States by reason of disability resulting from injuries received in
such service. He passed the civil service examination, and on
May 7, 1888, was appointed to a clerkship in the Post Office
Department. On March 16, 1893, at his own request and on
the certificate of the Civil Service Cwuwulission, he was tran.-

KEIM v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

ferred to the Department of the Interior, and assigned to a clerkship in class I in the Pension Bureau, with a salary of $1200
per year. On March 1, 189, his salary was reduced to $1000
per annum, at which salary he continued to serve to July 31,
1891, when he was discharged, and has not since been permitted
to perform the duties of his clerkship, although ready and willing to do so. The discharge by the Secretary of the Interior
was made upon this recommendation from the Commissioner
of Pensions: "The discharge of Mr. Morris Keim was recomnended because of his rating as inefficient. No other charges
are made against him. William Lochren, Commissioner." The
fourth and sixth findings are as follows:
"IV. At the time of his said discharge the requirements of
the public service in said Pension Bureau demanded the retention of a clerk in plaintiff's place; the Secretary of the Interior,
upon the recommendation of the Commissioner of Pensions,
retained at the time of plaintiff's discharge, and now retains,
other clerks of the same division who have received since plaintiffs discharge, and are now receiving-, the same salary, to wit,
$1000 per annum (one receiving $1200 per annum), who have
not been honorably discharged from the military or naval service
of the United States, and who are not shown to this court,
except as in these findings set forth, to have possessed at the
time of plaintiff's discharge better or inferior business capacity
for the proper discharge of the duties of their said offices than
the qualifications for the said duties possessed by plaintiff at
that time. On or about the day plaintiff received notice of his
discharge additional clerks were appointed to duties in the same
division in which he served in said bureau who never rendered
any military or naval service. It does not appear that any of
these clerks were regarded or reported as inefficient by any
superior ofticer; nor does it appear that those so retained or
those thereafter appointed possessed better, or equal, or inferior
qualifications for the discharge of the duties of their respective
offices than those possessed therefor by the plaintiff."
"VI. There is no evidence that the plaintiff made any effort
to secure other employment, or that lie has, or has not, been
employed at any kind of work from and after his said discharge

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

July, 1894. Nor is there evidence as to the difference in amount
between his salary while in the government service and any
moneys he might have earned or could have reasonably earned
or has earned in other ways since his said discharge."
The petitioner requested additional findings, of which the
only portions material to this inquiry are in the latter part of
finding 3, that "he was formally discharged from said service,
without any fault of his own, and without just cause, and has
not since said last-named date been permitted to discharge the
duties of said clerkship, although he has at all times, since said
last-named date, stood ready and willing to discharge the duties
thereof." And finding 5: "That petitioner was at the time of
his so-called discharge an efficient clerk, and discharged his
duties faithfully and efficiently, and at the time of his said discharge he possessed and now possesses the necessary business
capacity for the proper discharge of the duties of said clerkship."
These findings the court declined to make, "deeming said
requested findings, if true, to be irrelevant to the issue presented."
Mr.John C. Chaney for appellant.
Mr.Assistant Attorney GeneralBoyd for the United States.
MR.JUSTICE

BREWER,

after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Upon these facts we are asked to decide whether the courts
may supervise the action of the head of a department in discharging one of the clerks therein.
It has been repeatedly adjudged that the courts have no general supervising power over the proceedings and action of the
various administrative departments of government. Thus, in
])ecatur v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 497, 515, in which was presented
the question of the right of the Circuit Court of the District of
Columbia to issue a writ of mandamus to the Secretary of the
Navy to perform an executive act not merely ministerial but

KEIM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

involving the exercise of judgment, it was said by Chief Justice
Taney:
"The court could not entertain an appeal from the decision
of one of the Secretaries, nor revise his judgment in any case
where the law authorized him to exercise- discretion or judgment. Nor can it by mandamus act directly upon the officer
and guide and control his judgment or discretion in the matters
committed to his care in the ordinary discharge of his official
duties. . . . The interference of the courts with the performance of the ordinary duties of the executive departments
of the government would be productive of nothing but mischief ;
and we are quite satisfied that such a power was never intended
to be given to them."
The same proposition was reaffirmed in United States exrrel.
Dunlap v. Blaek, 128 U. S. 40, in an elaborate opinion by Mr.
Justice Bradley. See also United States ex rel. Redfield v. Windora, 137 U. S. 636; Boynton v. Blaine, 139 U. S. 306. In
United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 396, it was said by Mr.
Justice Miller:
"Congress has also enacted a system of laws by which rights
to these lands may be acquired and the title of the Government
conveyed to the citizen. This court has with a strong hand
upheld the doctrine that, so long as the legal title to these lands
remained in the United States and the proceedings for acquiring it were as yet infieri,the courts would not interfere to control the exercise of the power thus vested in that tribunal. To
that doctrine we still adhere."
The appointment to an official position in the Government,
even if it be simply *a clerical position, is not a mere ministerial
act, but one involving the exercise of judgment. The appointing power must determine the fitness of the applicant; whether
or not he is the proper one to discharge the duties of the position. Therefore it is one of those acts over which the courts
have no general supervising power.
In the absence of specific provision to the contrary, the power
of removal from office is incident to the power of appointment.
"It cannot for a moment be admitted that it was the intention
of the Constitution that those offices which are denominated

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

inferior offices should be held during life. And if removable
at pleasure, by whom is such removal to be made? In the absence of all constitutional provision or statutory regulation it
would seem to be a sound and necessary rule to consider the
power of removal as incident to the power of appointment."
-i re Ifennen, 13 Pet. 230, 259 ; Parsons v. United Slates, 167
U. S. 324. 'Unless, therefore, there be some specific provision
to the contrary, the action of the Secretary of the Interior in
removing the petitioner from office on account of inefficiency
is beyond review in the courts either by mandamus to reinstate
him or by compelling payment of salary as though he had not
been removed.
The Revised Statutes, sec. 1754, provide:
"Persons honorably discharged from the military or naval
service by reason of disability resulting from wounds or sickness
incurred in the line of duty shall be preferred for appointments
to civil offices, provided they are found to possess the business
capacity necessary for the proper discharge of the duties of such
offices."
But this does not avail the petitioner. le was preferred for
appointment and held under that appointment for years. There
was no disregard of that section either in letter or spirit; no
evasion of its obligations. He was not appointed on one day
and discharged on the next, but after his first appointment continued in service until it was found that he was inefficient.
Section 3 of the act of August 15, 1876, 19 Stat. 169, is:
"That whenever, in the judgment of the head of any. department, the duties assigned to a clerk of one class can be as well
performed by a clerk of a lower class, or by a female clerk, it
shall be lawful for him to diminish the number of clerks of the
higher grade and increase the number of the clerks of the lower
grade within the limit of the total appropriation for such clerical
service: Provided, That in making any reduction of force in
any of the executive departments, the. head of such department
shall retain those persons who may be equally qualified who
have been honorably discharged from the military or naval service of the United States, and the widows and orphans of deceased soldiers and sailors."

KEIM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

In section 7 of the Civil Service act of 1883 (22 Stat. 406) is

this proviso:
"But nothing herein contained shall be construed to take
from those honorably discharged from the military or naval
service any preference conferred by the seventeen hundred and
fifty-fourth section of the Revised Statutes, nor to take from the
President any authority not inconsistent with this act conferred
by the seventeen hundred and fifty-third section of said statutes."
But these sections do not contemplate the retention in office
of a clerk who is inefficient, nor attempt to transfer the power
of determining the question of efficiency from the heads of
departments to the courts. The proviso in section 3 of the act
of August 15, 1876, expressly limits the preference to those
"equally qualified."
No thoughtful person questions the obligations which the
nation is under to those who have done faithful service in its
army or navy. Congress has generously provided for the discharge of those obligations in a system of pensions more munificent than has ever before been known in the history of the
world. But it would be an insult to the intelligence of Congress to suppose that it contemplated any degradation of the
civil service by the appointment to or continuance in office of
incompetent or inefficient clerks simply because they had been
honorably discharged from the military or naval service. The
preference, and it is only a preference is to be exercised as
between those "equally qualified," and this petitioner was discharged because of inefficiency. That, it may be said, does not
imply misconduct but simply neglect, but a neglected duty often
works as much against the interests of the Government as a duty
wrongfully performed, and the Government has a right to demand and expect of its employ6s not merely competency, but
fidelity and attention to the duties of their positions.
Nowhere in these statutory provisions is there anything to
indicate that the duty of passing, in the first instance, upon the
qualifications of the applicants, or, later, upon the competency
or efficiency of those wh6 have been tested in the service, was
taken away from the administrative officers and transferred to
the courts. Indeed, it may well be doubted whether that is a

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

duty which is strictly judicial in its nature. It would seem
strange that one having passed a civil service examination could
challenge the rating made by the commission, and ask the courts
to review such rating, thus transferring from the commission,
charged with the duty of examination, to the courts a function
which is, at least, more administrative than judicial; and if
courts should not be called upon to supervise the results of a
civil service examination equally inappropriate would be an investigation into the actual work done by the various clerks, a
comparison of one with another as to competency, attention to
duty, etc. These are matters peculiarly within the province of
those who are in charge of and superintending the departments,
and until Congress by some special and direct legislation makes
provision to the contrary, we are clear that they must be settled
by those administrative officers.
We see no error in the conclusions of the Court of Claims, and
its decree is
Affirmed.
CONSOLIDATED CANAL COMPANY v. MESA CANAL
COMPANY.
APPEAAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 200. Submitted March 15, 1900. - Decided April 9, 1900.

This court, in view of the finding of the court below as to the influence of
the dam placed by the Mesa Company upon the flow of water in the
canal of the Consolidated Company, is concluded as to the question of
fact.
An injunction will not issue to enforce a right that is doubtful, or to restrain an act, the injurious consequences of which are doubtful.
The dam built by the Mesa Company although it had the effect of raising
the flow of water in its canal so as to destroy the water power obtained
by fhe Consolidated Company through the construction of its canal, was
not an infringement of the rights secured to the Consolidated Company
under the contract set forth in the statement of the case.

THIS case comes on appeal from a decision of the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Arizona, 53 Pac. Rep. 575, affirming

