THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
Syllabus.

the issues made by the parties, and as neither party saw fit to
set up the former decree as a bar to the action, the state court
was not bound to notice it. It did not affect in any way the
jurisdiction of that court. In addition to this, however, Campbell relied upon a wholly different defence from that set up by
him in the former suit, and one which had accrued to him after
the decree in that court was rendered. Whether the decree, if
properly pleaded, would have operated as a bar it is unnecessary
to determine. As the same issues are presented here as were
presented in the state court, it is entirely clear that they cannot
be relitigated.
The judgment of the state court was conclusive upon these
issues, and the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals to that
effect was correct, and it is
Affirmed.

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 243. Argued January 12, 1900.-Decided May 14, 1900.

The Carlos F. Roses, a Spanish vessel, owned at Barcelona, Spain, sailed
from that port for Montevideo, Uraguay, with a cargo which was discharged there and a cargo of jerked beef and garlic taken on board for
Havana, for which she sailed March 16, 1898. On May 17, while proceeding to Havana, she was captured by a vessel of the United States and
sent to Key West, where she was libelled. A British company doing
business in London, laid claim to the cargo on the ground that they had
advanced money for its purchase to a citizen of Montevideo, and lhad
received bills of lading covering the shipments. The vessel was condemied as enemy's property, but the proceeds of the cargo, which had
been ordered to be sold as perishable property, was ordered to be paid
to the claimants. Ileii,
(1) That as the vessel was an enemy.vessel, the p'esnmption was that
the cargo was enemy's property, and this could only be overcome
by clear and positive evidence to the contrary ;
(2) That on the face of the papers given in evidence, it must be presumed

OCTOBER TERAI, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

that when these goods were delivered to the vessel, they became
the property of the consignors named in the invoices;
That the British company got the legal title to the goods and the
right of possession only if such were the intention of the parties,
and that that intention was open to explanation, although the
persons holding the papers might have innocently paid value for
them;
That in prize courts it is necessary for the claimants to show the absence of anything to impeach the transaction, and at least to disclose
fully all the surrounding circumstances, and that the claimants
had failed to do so;
That the right of capture acts on the proprietary interest of the
thing captured at the time of the capture, and is not affected by
the secret liens or private engagements of the parties;
That in this case the belligerent right overrides the neutral claim,
which must be regarded merely as a debt and the assignment as a
cover to an enemy interest.

THE Carlos F. Roses was a Spanish bark of 499 tons, hailing

from Barcelona, Spain, sailing under the Spanish flag, and officered and manned by Spaniards.' She had been owned for
many years by Pedro Roses Valenti, a citizen of Barcelona.
11er last voyage began at Barcelona, whence she proceeded to
Montevideo, Uruguay, with a cargo of wine and salt. All of
the outward cargo was discharged at Montevideo, where the
vessel took on a cargo consisting of jerked beef and garlic to
be delivered at Havana, Cuba, and sailed for the latter port on
March 16, 1898. On May 17, when in the Bahama Channel
off Punta de Maternillos, Cuba, and on her course to Havana,
she was captured by the United States cruiser New York and
sent to Key West in charge of a prize crew. The bark and
her cargo were duly libelled May 20. All of the ship's papers
were delivered to the prize commissioners, and the deposition
of Maristany, her master, was taken in preparatorio. Kleinwort Sons and Company of London, England, made claim to
the cargo, consisting of a shipment of 110,256 kilos of jerked
beef 'and 19,980 strings of garlic, and a further shipment of
165,384 kilos of jerked beef, alleging that they were its owners
and that it was not lawful prize of war. In support of the
claim the firm's agent in the United States filed a test affidavit
made on information and belief. In this it was alleged that

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
Statement of the Case.

Kleinwort Sons and Company were merchants in London; that
the members of the firm were subjects of the United Kingdom.
of Great Britain and Ireland; that in February and March, 1898,
the bark, being then in Montevideo, bound on a voyage to Havana, took on board a cargo of jerked beef and strings of garlic
shipped by Pla Gibernau and Company, merchants of Montevideo, to be transported to the port of Havana, and there to be
delivered to the order of the shippers according to the condition of certain bills of lading issued therefor by the bark to
Pla Gibernau and Company; that the members of the firm
of Gibernau and Company were citizens of the Argentine Republic; that'the bark left Montevideo on March 16, and proceeded on her voyage to Havana, until May 17, when, being
at a point in the Bahama Channel off Martinique, she was captured by the United States cruiser New York, without resistance on her part, and sent into Key West as prize of war.
That after the shipment of the cargo in Montevideo claimants
made advances to the shippers and owners of the cargo in the
sum of £6297, British sterling, to wit, £2714 item thereof,
upon the security of said lot of 110,256 kilos of jerked beef
and 19,980 strings of garlic, and £3583 item thereof, upon the
security of said lot of 165,384 kilos of jerked beef; that at the
time of making said advances and in consideration thereof,
bills of lading covering the shipments were delivered to claimants duly indorsed in blank with the intent and purpose that
they should thereby take title to said bills of lading, and to
said shipments of jerked beef and garlic, and should, on the
arrival of the vessel at her destination, take delivery of the
shipments and hold the same as security for their said advances
until paid, and with the right to dispose of said shipments and
to apply the proceeds to the payment of their said advances;
and accordingly the said Kleinwort Sons and Company did
become and ever since have been and still are as aforesaid the
true and lawful owners of the said bills of lading and of the
shipments of jerked beef and garlic therein referred to. The
affidavits farther stated that the advances were equivalent in
money of the United States to about $30,644.35, and that no
part of the same had been paid, or otherwise secured to be paid.
VOL. CLXxVII-42

-OCTOBER TERM, 1,899.
Statement of the Case.

The cause was heard on the libel and claims of the master of
the bark and Kleinwort and Company, and the evidence taken
in preparatorio. The vessel was condemned as enemy property,
and the court ordered the claimants of the cargo to "have sixty
days in which to file further proof of ownership;" and because
of its perishable nature the marshal of the court was ordered to
advertise and sell the same, and deposit the proceeds in accordance to law. No appeal was taken on behalf of the vessel.
The cargo was sold and the proceeds deposited with the assistant treasurer of the United States at New York, subject to the
order of the court. The 'time for claimants to take further
proofs was twice extended. No witnesses were produced by
claimants, but Chitrles F. Harcke, claimants' manager in London, made three ex pa'rte affidavits before the United States
consul general, which were offered in evidence by claimants.
Appended to the affidavits were a large number of exhibits
purporting to be papers, or copies of papdrs, relating to the
shipment of the cargo, and some of the financial transactions of
some of those who had to do with it. From these affidavits
and papers it appeared that the voyage of the Carlos F. Roses
was a joint venture entered into by Pedro Pages of Havana, a
Spanish subject; the Spanish owners of the vessel, and Gibernau and Company. The whole cargo was made up of two shipments, one of jerked beef and one of garlic, which had been
purchased by Gibernau and Company on commission, and by
them delivered to the Carlos F. Roses "consigned to order for
account and risk and by order of the parties noted" in the invoices. The shipment of jerked beef containing 275,640 kilos
in bulk was divided thus: 60 %, 165,384 kilos, "to the expedition or voyage of the Carlos F. Roses;" 40 %, 110,256 kilos,
"to Mr. Pedro Pages of Havana." The shipment of garlic was
divided thus: 9990 strings, "account of Mr. Pedro Pages," arid
9990 strings for "account of" Gibernau and Company. Both
invoices were signed by Gibernau and Company, and bore date
March 11 and A2, 1898.
Harcke stated in one of his affidavits that: "The said cargo
was ultimately destined for Don Pedro Pag6s, of Havana, who
in the ordinary course of business would by payment to or in-

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
Statement of the Case.

demnification of Kleinwort. Sons & Co. or their agents in that
,behalf take up the said bills of lading and thus be enabled
thereon to take the goods. No payment whatever has been
made to Messieurs Kleinwort Sons & Co., or their agents, on
account of the payments made by them through the said advances by said Don Pedro Pag6s,.or by any person on his behalf,
or otherwise, and the said Kleinwort Sons & Co. have been and
are wholly unindemnified in respect of their said payments
except so far as the proceeds of the said cargo and the insurance thereon which as the owners of the said goods -they have
become entitled to collect, thereby subrogating to their own
right to the bxtent of such payments the insurers of the said
goods."
The ship's manifest appears to have been signed by Maristany,
her master, at Montevideo, on March 15, 1898, and was vis8d
by the Spanish consul at that port the previous day. It described the ship's destination as Havana, and her cargo as made
up of two lots of jerked beef containing 248,076 kilos and
29,970 kilos respectively, and one lot of garlic containing 19,980
strings, all shipped by Gibernau and Coiimpany, "to order."
On March 11, Maristany issued three bills of lading, in which
it was stated that the shipments were received from Gibernau
and Company for transportation to Havana "for account and
at the risk of whom it may concern;" one of the bills covering
a shipment of 165,384 kilos of jerked beef ; another of 110,256
kilos of jerked beef; and the third of 19,980 bunches of garlic.
March 15, Gibernau and Company drew this bill of exchange:
"No. 128. Montevideo, March 15, 1898. For £2714 13 8.
Ninety days after sight you will please pay for this first of exchange (the second and third being unpaid), to the order of the
London River Plate Bank, L'd, the suin. of £2714 13 8, value
received, which you will charge to the account of Pedro Pages
of Havana as per advice.
"PLA

"To Messrs. Kleinwort Sons

GIBERNAu & Co.

Co., London."

On the same day Maristany drew this bill of exchange:
"No. 129. Montevideo, March 15, 1898. For £3583 11 6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Ninety days after sight you will please pay for this first of exchange (the second and third being unpaid), to the order of Pla
Gibernau & Co. the sum of £3583 11 6, invoice value of jerked
beef, per Carlos F. Roses, which you -will charge to the account
of P. Roses Yalenti, of Barcelona, as per advice.
" YSIDRO BERTRAN MARISTANY.

"To Messrs. Kleinwort Sons & Co., London."
This was indorsed by Gibernau and Company.
Valenti was the managing owner of the Carlos F. Roses.
Both bills of exchange passed through the London River Plate
Bank, L't'd, at Montevideo. On April 6 they were accepted by
Kleinwort Sons and Company, and on May 9 were paid under
discount by that firm. Harcke alleged that at the time of the
acceptance of these bills of exchange, bills of lading covering
the shipments of the garlic, and the jerked beef shipped for
account and by order of Pages, indorsed in blank by Gibernau
and Company, were delivered to claimants, as security for the
payment of the bills of exchange; and that thereafter the bill
of lading covering the shipment of jerked beef made for the
account and by the order of the Carlos F. Roses was delivered in
like manner, but affiant did not state when. It was also alleged
that on April 9 the bills of lading and invoices, covering the
shipment of garlic and Pag6s's share of the jerked beef were
mailed by Kleinwort Sons and Company to Gelak and Company, bankers of Havana, to be held until the bills of exchange
charged to the account of Pag6s should be paid. Neither the
instructions sent to Gelak and Company, nor a copy of them,
were produced. Harcke further alleged that the bills of lading
and the invoices covering the vessel's share of the shipment of
jerked beef were retained by Kleinwort Sons and Company
"pending the disposal of the said cargo." On May 17, the day
of the capture, Kleinwort Sons and Company cabled Gelak
and Company requesting them to return the bills of lading and
invoices, whiich had been forwarded on April 9. June 9, Gelak
and Company replied that the bills and invoices had not been
received. On October 21 claimants produced these bills of
lading, alleging that they had been received from Gelak and

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
Opinion of the Court.

Company on October 18, and that neither Pages, Gibernau and
Company, nor the owners of the Carlos F. Roses had paid claimants anything for or on account of their acceptance and payment of the bills of exchange. The cause of the cargo was
heard a second time on the claim, test affidavit, and Harcke's
affidavits, and a decree was entered for the payment to claimants of the proceeds of sale; from which decree the United
States took this appeal.
James H. Hayden and Mr.Assistant Attorney General
.Mr.
Joseph K. MoCammon was
Hfoyt for the United States. .Mr.
on their brief.
J11r. Wilkelmus Mynderse for the claimants.
31R.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The President's proclamation of April 26, 1898, declared the
policy of the government in the conduct 6f the war would be
to adhere to the rules of the Declaration of Paris therein set
forth, one of them being thus expressed: "Neutral goods, not
contraband of war, are not liable to confiscation under the
enemy's flag."
The question is whether this cargo when captured was enemy
property or not. The District Court held that both the title
and right of possession were in these neutral claimants at the
time of the capture, "as evidenced by the indorsed bills of
lading and the paid bills of exchange," and, therefore, entered
the decree in claimant's favor. As the vessel was an enemy
vessel the presumption was that the cargo was enemy's property, and this could only be overcome by clear and positive evidence to the contrary. The burden of proving ownership rested
on claimants. Thte London tPacket, 5 Wheat. 132; The Sally
Afagee, 3 Wall. 451; Thte Benito Estenger, 176 U. S. 568.
Further proofs on claimant's behalf were ordered to be furnished within sixty days from June 2; and the time was enlarged to August 31; and again to October 15. The proofs

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

tendered were three affidavits of claimants' manager sworn to
September 27, October 12 and October 21, 1898, respectively,
with accompanying papers. Such ex parte statements, where
further proofs have been ordered, though admitted without ob:
jection, are obviously open to criticism, but without pausing to
comment on these in that aspect, we inquire whether they satisfy
the requirements of the law of prize in respect of the establishment of the neutral character of this cargo under the circumstances.
Gibernau and Company were citizens of a neutral state;
they were evidently commission merchants, and in each invoice
a charge for their commission on the shipment appears. The
invoices expressly provided that the goods were shipped "to
order for account and risk and by order of the parties noted
below." The consignees noted below in the invoice of the jerked
beef were the owners of the vessel, "the expedition or voyage
of the 'Carlos F. Roses '" and "Mr. Pedro Pages of Havana,"
all Spanish subjects. The consignees of the garlic were "Mr.
Pedro Pag6s" and " the undersigned';" that is, Gibernau and
Company. There were three sets of bills of lading issued by
the master to Gibernau and Company. One covered the portion of the shipment of jerked beef made for the account of the
vessel; another, the portion of that shipment made for the account of Pages; the third, the shipment of garlic made for the
joint account of Pag6s and Gibernau and Company. All the
bills set forth that the goods were taken for the account and at
the risk of whom it might concern. The ship's manifest was
signed under date March 15, and the destination of the cargo
was stated thus: "Shipped by Pla Gibernau Co. To order."
The visi of the consul of -Spain, dated the day before, was:
"Good for Havana, with a cargo of jerked beef and garlic."
As the vessel had a share in the shipment of the jerked beef,
and the consignees were named in the invoices, which set forth
that the shipments were made by their orders for their account
and at their risk, it would appear that the manifest was erroneous, and this and the fact that the bills of lading stated that
the goods were taken "for account of whom it may concern,"
should be especially noted, since the reasonable inference is

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
Opinion of the Court.

that the consignees must have been known to the master. And
it also should be observed that. there was no charter party,
which would have necessarily revealed the engagements of the
vessel, but which naturally would not be entered into if the
commercial venture was that of her owner. The general rule
is that a consignor on delivering goods ordered, to a master of
a ship, delivers them to him as the agent of the consignee so
that the property in them is vested in the latter from the moment of such delivery, though the rule may be departed from
by agreement or by a particular trade custom, whereby the
goods are shipped as belonging to the consignor and on his
account and risk. We think that on the face of the papers it
must be concluded that when these goods were delivered to the
vessel they became the property of the consignees named in
the invoices. Hence the shipments of jerked beef must be regarded as owned by Pages, or by him and the owners of the
Carlos F. Roses. One half of the garlic belonged to Pages,
the remaining half was consigned to Gibernau and Company,
and they did not claim, and have not claimed it, nor was it
asserted that Gibernau and Company retained the ownership
of any part of the cargo after its delivery to the vessel. Property so long unclaimed may be treated as in any view good
prize. The Adeline, 9 Cranch, 244; TIle llarrison, 1 Wheat.
298. In fact, claimants admit that the whole cargo "was ultimately destined for Don Pedro Pag(3s of Havana." The bill
of exchange drawn by Gibernau and Company named Kleinwort Sons and Company as acceptors, and directed them to
charge the amount to the account of "Pedro Pages of Havana
as per advice." The bill drawn by Maristany also named Kleinwort Sons and Company as drawees, and directed them to
charge the amount "to P. Roses Valenti of Barcelona as per
advice." In neither of them was there any reference to the
cargo, and, so far as appeared, the amounts were at once charged
up to the persons named.
Harcke said that when the bills of exchange were accepted
by Kleinwort Sons and Company bills of lading covering the
shipment of 110,256 kilos of jerked beef and of the garlic were
delivered to them in consideration of the acceptance of the

OCTOBER TERMT, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

draft for £2714 13 8, and that bills of lading for the 165,354
kilos of jerked beef were afterwards delivered in consideration
of the acceptance of the draft for £3583 11 6. But the date
of the latter delivery was not given, and it affirmatively appeared that whenever these bills of lading reached Kleinwort
Sons and Company they were retained "pending the disposal
of the cargo." Both drafts were accepted April 6, and the bills
of lading for the 110,256 kilos of jerked beef and for the garlic
were forwarded to Gelak and Company on April 9, but the bills
for the 165,384 kilos of jerked beef, whenever received, never
were. The instructions to Gelak and Company were not put
in evidence, nor any of the correspondence with Valenti or
Pages. In June, Gelak and Company cabled that the bills sent
to them had not been received; in September they turned up,
but no information was afforded as to how they came into Gelak and Company's possession; and in October duplicates were
also received by claimants from Gelak and Company, with, so
far as disclosed, no accompanying explanation. And Harcke's
affidavits failed to set forth the relations, transactions or correspondence existing and passing between claimants and the
enemy owners of the cargo. This, although, as Sir William
Scott said in ie Magnus, 1 C. Rob. 31, "the correspondence
of the parties, the orders for purchase, and the mode of payment, would have been the points to which the court would
have looked for satisfaction."
The affidavits alleged that claimants were wholly unindernnified except by the proceeds of the cargo and the insurance
thereon, by which the insurers were subrogated to their own
rights, but did not state whether the insurance contemplated a
war risk, or why the bills of lading for the larger portion of
the beef were retained by claimants and not sent to their Ilavana agents, or whether they retained them upon instructions
from the enemy owners; or whether they came to claimants
from Spain; nor did anything appear in respect of the interest of
Pages as consignee for himself, or in a representative capacity;
nor of Valenti, the owner of the enemy vessel, who resided at
Barcelona. The evidence of enemy interest arising on the face
of the documents called on the asserted neutral owners to prove

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
Opinion of the Court.

beyond question their right and title. And still for all that appears, the documents may have been sent merely to facilitate
delivery to the agent of the enemy owners.
Bills of lading stand as the substitute and representative of
the goods described therein, and while quasi negotiable instruments, are not negotiable in the full sense in which that term
is applied to bills and notes. The transfer of the bill passes to
the transferee the transferror's title to the goods described, and
the presumption as to ownership arising from the bill may be
explained or rebutted by other evidence showing where the
real ownership lies. A pledgee to whom a bill of lading is given
as security gets the legal title to the goods and the right of
possession only if such is the intention of the parties, and that
intention is open to explanation. Inquiry into the transaction
in which the bill originated is not precluded because it came
into the bands of persons who may have innocently paid value
for it. Pollardv. Vinton, 105 U. S. 7; Shaw v. Railroad Company, 101 U. S. 557.
Generally speaking, in the purchase and shipment of goods
on bills of lading attached to bills of exchange drawn against
them, the bill of exchange is drawn on the consignee and purchaser, and sent forward for collection through the banker at
the place of shipment, who advances on the draft, and thereafter realizes on it through his correspondents, or by sale as exchange; or the banker at some other point, or at the general
exchange center, may be the drawee of the bill of exchange
instead of the consignee or real owner, the banker standing in
the place of the owner, in virtue of some arrangement with his
customer, or on the faith of a running account, the pledge of
other securities, or the customer's personal liability, so that the
draft may be charged up at once, and, at all events, the control
of the goods is not the sole reliance of the banker.
In the case in hand, the captors succeededto the enemy owners' rights, and could have introduced evidence as to the real
nature of the transactions, and so have rebutted any presumption in favor of the bankers as purchasers for value, and although
they did not do this, the question still remains that in prize
courts it is necessary for claimants to show the absence of any-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

thing to impeach the transaction, and at least to disclose fully
all the surrounding circumstances. And this we think claimants have failed to do.
The right of captureacts on the proprietary interest of the
thing captured at the time of the capture and is not affected by
the secret liens or private engagements of the parties. Hence
the prize courts have rejected in its favor the lien of bottomry
bonds, of mortgages, for supplies, and of bills of lading. The
assignment of bills of lading transfers the ju~s adrem, but not
necessarily the jus in rein. The jus in re or in rem implies
the absolute dominion, -the ownership independently of any
particular relation with another person. The jus ad rem has
for its foundation an obligation 'incurred by another. Sand.
Inst. Just. Introd., xlviii; 2 Marcad6, Expl. du Code Napoleon,
350; 2 Bouvier, (Rawle's Revision,) 73; i e Young Mechanic,
2 Curtis, 404.
Claimants did not obtain the jus in rem, and, according to
the great weight of authority, the right of capture was superior.
In ie Frances, 8 Cranch, 418, a New York merchant
claimed two shipments of goods, one in consequence of an advance made to enemy shippers by him in consideration of the
consignment, and the other in virtue of a general balance of
account due to him from the shippers as their factor. Both
consignments were at the risk of the enemy shippers. The
goods were condemned as enemy property, and the sentence
was affirmed. This court said:
"The doctrine of liens seems to depend chiefly upon the rules
of jurisprudence established in different countries. There is no
doubt but that, agreeably to the principles of the common law
of England, a factor has a lien upon the goods of his principal
in his possession, for the balance of account due to him; and so
has a consignee for advances made by him to the consignor.
But this doctrine is unknown in prize courts, unless in
very peculiar cases, where the lien is imposed by a general law
of the mercantile world, independent of any contract between
the parties. Such is the case of freight upon enemies' goods
seized in the vessel of a friend, which is always decreed to the
owner of the vessel. . . . But in cases of liens created by

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
Opinion of the Court.

the mere private contract of individuals, depending upon the
different laws of different countries, the difficulties which an
examination of such claims would impose upon the captors, and
even upon the prize courts, in deciding upon them, and the
door which such a doctrine would open to collusion between
the enemy owners of the property and neutral claimants, have
excluded such cases from the consideration of those courts.
The principal strength of the argument in favor of the
claimant in this case, seemed to be rested upon the position,
that the consignor in this case could not have countermanded
the consignment after delivery of the goods to the master of
the vessel; and hence it was inferred that the captor had no
right to intercept the passage of the property to the consignee.
This doctrine would be well founded, if the goods had been
sent to the claimant upon his account and risk, except in the
case of insolvency. But when goods are sent upon the account
and risk of the shipper, the delivery to the master is a delivery
to him as agent of the shipper, not of the consignee; and it is
competent to the consignor, at any time before actual delivery
to the consignee, to countermand it, and thus to prevent his
lien from attaching. Upon the whole, the court is of opinion
that, upon the reason of the case, as well as upon authority,
this claim cannot be supported, and that the sentence of the
court below must be affirmed with costs."
In The ffary and Susan, 1 Wheat. 25, an American merchantman bound from Liverpool to New York was captured by
a privateer of the United States during the war of 1812. In
her cargo were certain goods which had been shipped by British subjects to citizens of the United States, in pursuance of
orders received before the declaration of war. Previous to the
execution of the orders the shippers became embarrassed, and
assigned the goods to certain bankers to secure advances made
by them, with a request to the consignees to remit the amount
to the bankers, who also repeated the same request, the invoices
being for gain and risk of the consignees, and stating the goods
to be then the property of the bankers, and it was held that the
goods having been put'chased and shipped in pursuance of orders
'from the consignees, the property was originally vested in them,

OCTOBER TERM. 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and was not devested by the intermediate assignment, which
was merely intended to transfer the right to the debt due from
the consignees.
In T]he Flampton, 5 Wall. 372, the schooner Hampton and
her cargo had been captured, libelled and condemned as prize
of war. The master of the vessel was her owner, but interposed no claim; nor did any one claim the cargo. One Brinckley appeared and claimed the vessel as mortgagee. The bona
,tdesof this mortgage was not disputed; nor that he was a
loyal citizen. But his claim was dismissed, and, the case having
been certified to this court, it was held that in proceedings in
prize, and under the principles of international law, mortgages
on vessels captured jure belli are to be treated only as liens subject to be overriden by the capture. Mr. Justice Miller said:
"The ground on which appellant relies is, that the mortgage,
being ajus in re held by an innocent party, is something more
than a mere lien, and is protected by the law of nations. The
mortgagee was not in possession in this case, and the real owner
who was in possession admits that his vessel was in delicto by
failing to set up any claim for her. It would require pretty
strong authority to induce us to import into the prize courts
the strict common law doctrine, which is sometimes applied to
the relation of a mortgagee to the property mortgaged. It is
certainly much more in accordance with the liberal principles
which govern admiralty courts to treat mortgages as equity
courts treat them, as a mere security for the debt for which
they are given, and therefore no more than a lien on the property conveyed. But it is unnecessary to examine this question minutely, because an obvious principle of necessity must
forbid a prize court from recognizing the doctrine here contended for.. If it were once admitted in these courts, there
would be an end of all prize condemnation. As soon as a
war was threatened, the owners of vessels and cargoes which
might be so situated as to be subject to capture, would only
have to raise a sufficient sum of money on them, by bona fide
mortgages, to indemnify them in case of such capture. If the
vessel or cargo was seized, the owner need not appear, because
he would be indifferent, having the value of his property in his

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
Opinion of the Court.

hands already. The mortgagee having an honest mortgage
which he could establish in a court of prize, would either have
the property restored to him or get the amount of the mortgage
out of the proceeds of the sale. The only risk run by enemy
vessels or cargoes on the high seas, or by neutrals engaged in
an effort to break the blockade, would be the costs and expenses
of capture and condemnation, a risk too unimportant to be of
any value to a belligerent in reducing his opponent to terms.
The principle which thus abolishes the entire value of prize
capture on the high seas, and deprives blockades of all danger
to parties disposed to break them, cannot be recognized as a
rule of prize courts."
In The Battle, 6 Wall. 498, the steamer Battle and cargo
were captured on the high seas as prize of war, brought into
port and condemned, for breach of blockade and also as enemy
property. Two claims were set up against the steamer in the
court below, one for supplies, and another for materials, furnished, and for work and labor in building a cabin on the boat.
These claims were dismissed, and the decree affirmed by this
court, Mr. Justice Nelson delivering the opinion, saying: "The
principle is too well settled that capture as prize of war, jure
belli, overrides all previous liens, to require examination."
Such is the rule in the British prize courts. The Tobago, 5 C.
IRob. 2i8; The Afarianna,6 C. Rob. 24; The Ida, Spinks Prize
Cases, 26.
Tile Tobago was a case of claim to a captured French vessel,
made on behalf of a British merchant as the bolder of a bottomry bond executed and delivered to him by the master of the
ship before the commencement of hostilities between Great
Britain and France. Sir William Scott said:
"The integrity of this transaction is not impeached, but I am
called upon to consider whether the court can, consistently with
the principles of law that govern its practice, afford relief. It
is the case of a bottomry bond, given fairly in times of peace,
without any view of infringing the rights of war, to relieve a
ship in distress.

.

.

.

But can the court recognize bonds of

this kind as titles of property, so as to give persons a right to
stand in judgment, and demand restitution of such interests in

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

a court of prize ? . . . The person advancing money on
bonds of this nature, acquires, by that act, no property in the
vessel; he acquires the jus in ren, but not the jus in re, until
it has been converted and appropriated by the final process of
a court of justice. . . . But it is said that the captor takes
cUM onere, and, therefore, that this obligation would devolve
upon him. That he is held to take cm onere is undoubtedly
true, as a rule which is to be understood to apply where the
onus is immediately and visibly incumbent upon it. A captor
who takes the cargo of an enemy on board the ship of a friend,
takes it liable to the freight due to the owner of the ship;
because the owner of the ship has the cargo in his possession,
subject to that demand by the general law, independent of
all contract. . . . But it is a proposition of a much wider
extent, which affirms that a mere right of action is entitled to
the same favorable consideration in its transfer from a neutral
to a captor. It is very obvious that claims of such a nature
may be so framed as that no powers beldnging to this court can
enable it to examine them with effect. They are private contracts, passing between parties who may have an interest in
colluding; the captor has no access whatever to the original
private understanding of the parties in forming such contracts;
and it is, therefore, unfit that he should be affected by them.
His rights of capture act upon the property, without regard to
secret liens possessed by third parties. . . . I am of opinion
that there' is no instance in which the court has recognized
bonds of this kind as titles of property, and that they are not
entitled to be recognized as such in the prize courts."
In T],e Jarianna,thevessel had been sold at Buenos Ayres
by American owners to a Spanish merchant; the purchase
money, however, had not been paid in full, but was to be satisfied out of the proceeds of a quantity of tallow on board the
vessel for sale, consigned to the agents of the American vendors at London. The vessel was seized on her voyage to England, documented as belonging to a Spanish merchant, and
sailing under the flag and pass of Spain. The former American proprietors made claim to the cargo, but the claim was

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
Opinion of the Court.

disallowed because the claimants' interest was not sufficient to
support it; and the court said:
"Captors are supposed to lay their hands on the gross tangible property, on which there may be many just claims outstanding, between other parties, which can have no operation
as to them. If such a rule did not exist, it would be quite impossible for captors to know upon what grounds they were proceeding to make any seizure. The fairest and most credible
documents, declaring the property to belong to the enemy,
would only serve to mislead them, if such documents were liable to be overruled by liens which could not in any manner
come to their knowledge. It would be equally impossible for
the court, which has to decide upon the question of property,
to admit such considerations. The doctrine of liens depends
very much on the particular rules of jurisprudence which prevail in different countries. To decide judicially on such claims,
would require of the court a perfect knowledge of the law of
covenant, and the application of that law in all countries, under all the diversities in which that law exists. From necessity,
therefore, the court would be obliged to shut the door against
such discussions and to decide on the simple title of property,
As to the title of propwith scarcely any exceptions.
been going as the
have
to
said
are
erty in the goods, which
was to have been
ship
funds out of which the payment for the
made. That they were going for the payment of a debt will
not alter the property; there must be something more. Even
if bills of lading are delivered, that circumstance will not be
sufficient, unless accompanied with an understanding that he
who holds the bill of lading is to bear the risk of the goods as
to the voyage, and as to the market to which they are consigned;
otherwise, though the security may avail pro tanto, it cannot
.

be held to work any change in the property."
These cases were cited by Dr. Lushington in The Ida as settling the law. In that case, claim was made by a neutral mnerchant to a cargo of coffee which had been consigned to him by
an enemy on the credit of certain advances, as security for payment of which bills of lading covering the cargo had been delivered to him. But the court declined to recognize the lien,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and condemned the cargo as enemy property.

Dr. Lushington

referred to The San Jose Indiano and Cargo, 2 Gallison, 267,

and subscribed to what was there said by Mr. Justice Story,
but thought his remarks inapplicable to the case in hand.
The case referred to was affirmed by this court. 1 Wheat.
208. Goods were shipped by Dyson, Brothers and Company
of Liverpool on board a neutral ship bound to Rio de Janeiro,
which was captured and brought into the United States for
adjudication. The invoice was headed: "Consigned to Messrs.
Dyson, Brothers, and Finnie, by order and for account of
J. Lizaur." In a letter accompanying the bill of lading and
invoice, Dyson, Brothers and Company wrote Dyson, Brothers,
and Finnie: "For Mr. Lizaur we open an account in our books
here, and debit him, etc. We cannot yet ascertain the proceeds
of his hides, etc., but find h is order for goods will far exceed
the amount of these shipments, therefore we consign the whole
to you, that you may come to a proper understanding with
him." The two houses consisted of the same persons. It was
held that the goods were, during their transit, the property
and at the risk of the enemy shippers, and therefore subject to
condemnation. Lizaur's claim was rejected although Dyson,
Brothers and Company had the proceeds of his hides in their
hands.
Thie Lynchburg, Blatchford's Prize Cases, 57, and The Amy
Warwick, 2 Sprague, 150, are cited on behalf of claimants, but,
as we read them, they do not sustain their contention. The
schooner Lynchburg with a cargo of coffee had been libelled
during the civil war as enemy property, and also for an attempt
fo violate blockade. Brown Brothers and Company, loyal citizens, intervened as claimants of 2045 bags of coffee, part of
the cargo. They alleged that they had made an advance of
credit to Maxwell, Wright and Company, neutral merchants of
Rio de Janeiro, for the purchase of the coffee, under which
credit Maxwell, Wright and Company drew drafts on Brown
Brothers and Company for £6000, on the condition expressed
therein that the coffee purchased by claimants should be held
until their advances were reimbursed thereon. It was admitted
by the United States attorney that 1541 bags of the coffee

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
Opinion of the Court.

should be released to Brown Brothers and Company, and that
was done. As to the remaining 504 bags embraced in the
general claim of Brown Brothers and Company, in which
Wortharn and Company of Virginia, asserted an interest, it
was held by the court that as no proof was given by claimants
that the value of the 1541 bags restored to them was not equivalent to the sum of their advances used in purchasing the whole
2045 bags, the reasonable presumption was that the restoration
satisfied the entire advance. Aild Judge Betts said: "The
claim to an absolute ownership of the 2045 bags was placed
before the court in the oral argument, and in the written points
filed in the cause by the counsel for the claimants, upon the
proposition of law, that a bill of lading, transmitted to them
by the shipper to cover advances, passed to them the title to
the cargo purchased therewith. If this doctrine be correct as
to mere commercial transactions, it does not prevail in prize
courts, in derogation of the rights of captors, when the interest of the claimants is only a debt, although supported by liens
equitable and tacit, or legal and positive, even of the character
of bottomry bonds, when not signified on the ship's papers at
the time of her capture. The Frances,8 Cranch, 418; The
Tobago, 5 C. Rob. 218; Thie Marianna,6 C. Rob. 24. Here,
the vessel was an enemy bottom; the bill of lading consigned
the cargo to order or assigns, at large, at an enemy's port,
and, on the surrender of the principal portion of the consignment to the claimants, no other evidence was given in establishing the facts that the remainder of the shipment was owned
by them, or yet stood under hypothecation to them on the bill
of lading." The 504 bags were condemned, "because, by intendment of law, that portion belonged to Wortham and Company, and was not shown by the proofs to be exempt from
capture as prize."
In The Amy Warwick, J. L. Phipps and Company of New
York, British subjects, purchased 4700 bags of coffee, part of
the cargo of an enemy vessel, which they had purchased through
Phipps Brothers and Co., their firm at Rio, with funds of an
enemy firm, and £2000 of their own money by draft on Phipps
and Co., their firm at Liverpool. They took from the waster
VOL. CLXXVII-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

a bill of lading which stated that Phipps Brothers and Company were the shippers of this coffee, and that it was to be delivered to their order. Indorsed on the bill of lading was a
statement declaring that a portion of the coffee was the prop
erty of British subjects. Phipps Brothers and Company indorsed the bill of lading over to J. L. Phipps and Co. They
also delivered to the master another part of the bill of lading,
an invoice of the coffee, and a letter of advice to be conveyed
to the firm in New York. This letter stated that the coffee
was shipped for account of merchants at Richmond, Virginia,
and that a bill of lading would have been sent to them had it
not been deemed advisable by reason of the unsettled state of
political affairs, for the better protection of the property, and
to prevent privateers from molesting the vessel, to have it certified on the bill of lading that a portion of the coffee was British property, and that this referred to the portion against which
they had valued on Liverpool. It was held that the facts led
plainly to the conclusion that claimants ought to be repaid the
amount they had expended from their own funds in the purchase of the coffee and that the residue of the proceeds should
be condemned. It was said that as the coffee was purchased
at Rio by the claimants, and shipped by them on board the
vessel under a bill of lading by which the master was bound to
deliver it to their order, and they ordered it to be delivered to
J. L. Phipps and Co., that is, to themselves, they were the legal
owners of the property, and could hardly be said to have a lien
upon it. Their real character was that of trustees holding the
legal title and possession with a right of retention until their
advances should be paid. The doctrine of liens was considered,
and Thle Frances, Te Tobago, Tle Mariannaand other cases
examined. Judge Sprague was of opinion that the rule in such
eases ought not to be that which stops at the mere legal title,
but that which ascertains and deals with the real beneficial interest, "for, if the court were never to look beyond the legal
title, the result would be that when such title is held by an
enemy in trust for a neutral, the latter loses his whole property;
but, when the legal title is in a neutral in trust for an enemy,
the property is restored to the neutral, not for his benefit, but

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
Opinion of the Court.

merely as a conduit through which it is to be conveyed to the
enemy. To refuse to look beyond the legal title is to close our
eyes for the benefit of the enemy. It would enable him always
to protect his property by simply putting it in the name of a
neutral trustee."
We agree with counsel for the United States that notwithstanding the indorsement of Gibernau and Company on the
bills of lading, the proof of a neutral title was not sufficient.
Even if when the neutral interest is adequately proven to be
bonafide, the claim of the captors may be required to yield, yet
in this case the belligerent right overrides the neutral claim,
which must be regarded merely as a debt, and the assignment
as a cover to an enemy interest.
Something was said in argument in relation to the character
of the cargo. It is true that by the modern law of nations,
provisions, while not generally deemed contraband, may become so, although belonging to a neutral, on account of the
particular situation of the war, or on account of their destination, as, if destined for military use, for the army or navy of
the enemy, or ports of naval or military equipment. The Benito
Estenger, 176 U. S. 568; The Panama, 176 U. S. 535; The
Peterhoff, 5 Wall. 28; Grotius De Jure Belli et Pacis, lib. III,

c. 1, § 5 ; Hall, § 236.
Doubtless, in this instance, the concentration and accumulation of provisions at Havana might fairly be considered a necessary part of Spanish military, operations, imminente belle,
and these particular provisions were perhaps especially appropriate for Spanish military use; but while these features may
well enough be adverted to in connection with all the other
facts and circumstances, we do not place our decision upon
them.
We are of opinion that a valid transfer of title to this enemy
property to claimants was not satisfactorily made out, and that
-The decree below must be reversed, and a decree of condemnation directed to be entered, and it i88o ordered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS and MR. JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.
MR.

JUSTICE

BREWER,

SHIRAS,

with whom concurred MR.

JUSTICE

dissenting.

This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Florida, awarding
to Kleinwort Sons & Company, the claimants, the proceeds of
the sale of the cargo of the Spanish bark Carlos F. Roses.
The vessel sailed under the Spanish flag, and was owned,
officered and manned by Spaniards. On or about March 14,
1898, Pla Gibernau & Company, a firm of commission merchants doing business at Montevideo, in the Republic of Uruguay, shipped on board the bark, then lying at Montevideo, a
cargo consisting of about 275,000 kilos of jerked beef and 20,000
strings of garlic. The property was consigned upon three bills
of lading to the order of the shippers; and two bills of exchange, at ninety days, were drawn upon the claimants, Kleinwort Sons and Company, British subjects, domiciled and doing
business as bankers at London, England. One of these bills,
for £2714 3 8, was drawn by Pla Gibernau & Company to the
order of the London and River Plate Bank, Limited, a banking
concern doing business in Montevideo; the other, for £3583 11 6,
was drawn by the master of the Carlos F. Roses to the order of
Pla Gibernau & Company, and was by them indorsed to the
order of the London and River Plate Bank, Limited.
The bills of exchange and the bills of lading came that day,
March 15, 1898, into the possession of the London and River
Plate Bank, which cashed the drafts, and forwarded them for
acceptance to Kleinwort Sons & Company at London, who accepted them on April 6, 1898, and paid them when due. At
the time these bills of exchange were accepted the bills of lading, indorsed by Pla Gibernau & Company, came into the possession of the claimants.
The vessel sailed from Montevideo for Havana on March 16,
1898. On April 25, 1898, war between Spain and the United
States was declared, and on May 17, when in the Bahama Channel, on her course to Havana, the Carlos F. Roses was captured
by a war vessel of the United States, and sent in charge of a
prize crow to Key West.

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS

and MR.

JUSTICE BREWER,

dissenting.

On June 2, 1898, the District Court condemned the vessel as
enemy's property, seized upon the high seas. On February 9,
1899, the District Court held that, as it satisfactorily appeared
from the proof that both the title and the right of possession to
the cargo were in a neutral at the time of the capture, as evidenced by the indorsed bills of lading and the paid bills of exchange presented at the hearing, the claim should be allowed,
and it was so ordered. Thereupon the United States took this
appeal.
It is admitted that, if the cargo in question belonged to a
neutral, and was not contraband of war, it was not liable to
confiscation, though found in an enemy's vessel: this upon wellestablished principles of international law, and as within the
President's proclamation of April 26, 1898, expressly declaring
that "neutral goods, not contraband of war, are not liable to
confiscation under the enemy's flag."
It can scarcely be pretended that, in this instance, the cargo
consisted of articles contraband of war. They were the ordinary products of the Republic of Uruguay, a country with which
the United States were at peace, and were purchased and shipped
six weeks before war was declared. Little, if anything, is left
for the commerce of neutrals if such goods, shipped in such circunistances, are not within the protection of the President's
proclamation.
The question is whether the District Court erred in finding
that the goods in question were neutral goods and exempt, as
such, from condemnation.
The first contention, on behalf of the United States, is that
the affidavits and exhibits relied on by the claimants to prove
their title were not competent evidence, and it is urged that the
evidence should have been in the form of depositions, taken
under a commission, and of documents duly proved.
We think it is a sufficient reply to this objection that the
proofs were received and considered by the District Court upon
the trial entirely without objection on the part of the United
States or the captors; and that the action of the court in receiving the evidence was not among the assignments of error
made and filed under the appeal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR.JUSTICE SIIIRAs and Miz. JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

"If evidence in the nature of further proof be introduced,
and no formal order or objection appear on the record, it must
be presumed to have been done by consent of the parties, and
the irregularity is completely waived. In the present case, no
exception was taken to the proceedings or evidence in the District Court; and we should not, therefore, incline to reject the
further proof, even if we were of opinion that it ought not, in
strictness, to have been admitted." The Pizarro, 2 Wheat.
241, per Mr. Justice Story.
Rule 13 of this court is as follows:
"In all cases of equity and admiralty jurisdiction beard in
this court, no objection shall hereafter be allowed to be taken
to the admissibility of any deposition, deed, grant or other exhibit found in the record as evidence, unless objection was taken
thereto in the court below and entered of record; but the same
shall otherwise be deemed to have been admitted by consent."
It is next contended that the claimants' evidence, regarded
as a whole, does not support the decree of the court below. It
is said that the burden of proof is upon the claimants, and that
this burden has not been sustained.
This was not the view of the District Court, which, as we
have heretofore stated, held that it appeared satisfactorily from
the proof that both the title and right of possession were in a
neutral at the time of capture.
What are the matters urged against this finding of the court
below?
It is argued that, because it appears in the invoices and in the
manifest that the shipments were made partly on account of
"the expedition or voyage of the Carlos F. Roses," partly on
account of "Mr. Pedro Pages of Havana," and partly on account of the shippers, that is, Gibernau & Company, it is a reasonable inference that it must have been known to the master
that the consignees were, as to some of the cargo, enemies, and
that it must be concluded, on the face of the papers; that when
the goods were delivered to the vessel they became the property
of the consignees named in the invoices.
Such a view loses sight of the decisive and indisputable facts
that the money used by Gibernau & Company in the ,purchase

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS and MR. JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

of the goods was procured from the London and River Plate
Bank, which cashed the drafts drawn on Kleinwort Sons &
Company, the claimants, and that when the latter company, on
April 6, accepted the drafts they were furnished with the bills
of lading covering the entire shipment; that the said bills of
lading, at the time of such delivery, were duly indorsed in blank
by Gibernau & Company, the shippers, and to whose order the
said cargo was by the terms of the bills of lading to be delivered, all with the intent and result of entitling Kleinwort Sons &
Company to the said bills of lading and to the cargo described
therein as security for their acceptance of the drafts. It hence
was entirely immaterial whether the ultimate consignees were,
as to some of the cargo, residents of the enemy's country, and
whether that fact was known to the master. Under the facts
proved by the claimants the latter, through the London and
River Plate Bank, had furnished the money used in the purchase of the goods, before the sailing of the vessel. This is made
plainly to appear by the invoices furnished by the shippers, and
wherein is stated that the master received the goods from Pla
Gibernau & Company, and wherein also there is a statement of
the cost of the goods and of the commissions charged by Gibernau & Company, corresponding in amount to the drafts.
The fact that the claimants' proofs do not set forth the correspondence between the claimants and the ultimate consignees
is made a matter of unfavorable comment. But the transactions were substantially described in the affidavits, and it is not
easy to see what further light would have been afforded by such
correspondence, if, indeed, there was such correspondence.
The purchase of the goods, the drawing and cashing of the
drafts, the indorsement and delivery of the bills of lading, all
took place before the sailing of the vessel, and long before the
declaration of war, and before there was any reason to anticipate hostilities. The drafts were accepted before the war, and
were paid before the seizure of the vessel.
No counter evidence was offered by the United States, although the case was pending in the District Court from June 6,
1898, to February 9, 1899, when the decree in favor of the
claimants was entered. It is, of course, true that the burden

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR. JUSTice SItIRAS and Mn. JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

of proof was on the claimants, but when the Government elected
to stand on the proof adduced by the claimants, every fair and
reasonable intendment must be made in favor of that proof. If
the case so made out is consistent with the rightfulness of the
claim, it should not be defeated by mere suggestions and suppositions, not founded on evidence. "All reasonable doubts
shall be resolved in favor of the claimants. Any other course
Would be inconsistent with the high administration of the law
and the character of a just government." Prize Cases, 2 Black,
685.
The final contention on behalf of the United States is that,
even if the facts of the case were as set forth in the claimauts'
proofs, and as found by the District Court, yet, as matter of
law, the claimants cannot succeed, because "tthe right of capture acts on the proprietary interest of the thing captured at
the time of the capture, and is not affected by the secret liens
or private engagements of the parties; that hence prize courts
have rejected in its favor the lien of bottomry bonds, of mortgages, for supplies, and of bills of lading; . . . that claimants did not obtain the jus in 'em, and, according to the great
weight of authority, the right of capture wassuperior."
To sustain this propbsition the following cases are cited: The
.iary and Susan, I Wheat. 25; Thte Trances, 8 Cranch, 418;
Thte Sally Magee, 3 Wall. 451; The h1amton, 5 Wall. 372;
The Battle, 6 Wall. 498; Thie Tobago, 5 C. Rob. 218; T/ie
Marianna, 6 C. Rob. 24; The Ida, 1 Spinks' Prize Cases, 331.
The Mary and Susan was a case where an American house
had ordered the purchase of goods in England before the declaration of war, and where their English agents had assigned the
goods to certain brokers to secure advances made by them. The
goods were captured en route to America, and were libelled in the
District Court of the District of New York as prize of war. But
it was held, both in the Circuit Court and in this court, that the
property had vested in the American firm, who were the claimants, before and at the time of shipment, and was not divested by
a mere request made by the shippers to the consignees to remit
the purchase money to the bankers, although in the invoice it
was stated that the goods were the property of the bankers.

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS

and M.

JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

The transaction was regarded, not as a transfer of the goods,
but as merely intended to transfer the right to the debt due
from the consignees. No bills, of exchange were drawn on the
consignees in favor of the English bankers, nor were any bills
of lading indorsed to them. The evidence of the transaction
was found only in letters addressed to the consignees by the
shippers, requesting them to pay the purchase money to the
bankers; and this court held, after a careful examination of
the evidence, that there was no intention to secure the bankers
by any transfer of the title of the property, but only to secure
them by a transfer of the debt due from the consignees.
The case of Te I1',ances was an appeal from the sentence of
the Circuit Court of Rhode Island, condemning certain British
goods, captured on board the Frances, and vhich were claimed
by Thomas Irvin, a domiciled merchant of the United States,
on the ground of 'lien. It was stated by Mr. Justice Washington that "it was not pretended that the real ownership in these
goods was not vested in the consignors, enemies of the United
States; but the claimant founds his pretensions on a lien created
on the goods consigned, in consequence of an advance made to
the shippers, in consideration of the consignment, by his agent
in Glasgow, and also in virtue of a general balance of account
due to him as their factor." And it was held that while, according to the common law, a factor has a lien upon the goods
of his principal in his possession, for the balance of account due
him, and likewise a consignee for advances made by' him to the
consignor; yet that this doctrine is unknown in prize, courts,
unless in very peculiar circumstances. And the court referred
to the case of T/e Tobago, 5 C. Rob. 196, where it was held
that a lien on a vessel created by a bottomry bond was not protected from capture.
It will be seen that in this case of Tlie rances,as in the case
of The Mary and.Susan, there was no question of the effect of
a transfer of title by bills of lading, but a mere assertion of a
lien by virtue of common law principles.
The Sally Magee is the next case cited. This was the case of
an enemy's vessel bound for an enemy's port. A portion of the
cargo was claimed by Fry, Price & Company, for Coleman &

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS and MR. JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

Company, a Rio firm, because, as was alleged, Coleman & Com-

pany, as factors and commission merchants, had been directed
to purchase and ship for the account of Davenport & Company,
of Richmond, Va., a cargo of coffee, if procurable at not over
ten and a half cents per pound; that Coleman & Company did,
make the shipment of the cargo claimed to the consignment
of Davenport & Company, but that by the invoice thereof it
appeared that the said purchase was not made at or within the
said limit; for which cause Davenport & Company had refused
to receive it as purchased for their account, or otherwise than
on account of the shippers, Coleman & Company, and as agents
of necessity for them; and that Davenport & Company had
been authorized to receive it in their place and behalf. Another
claim related to the residue of the cargo, also coffee, consigned
to Dunlop & Company, of Richmond. It was not denied that
this portion of the cargo was enemy's property, but the claimants alleged a lien because of a balance due claimants by Dunlop & Company.
In respect to the first claim, it was held that if Coleman &
Company, as factors, bought the coffee at a price exceeding the
limit prescribed by Dav enport & Company, and the latter, on
learning the fact, repudiated the purchase, the title of the factors
thereupon became absolute, and none passed to the principals
for whom the purchase was made; but that there was'an entire
failure, on the part of the claimants, to prove the facts as
alleged, although more than two years had elapsed between the
filing of the claim and the time when the decree was rendered.
Accordingly, the decree of condemnation as to that portion of
the cargo was affirmed.
The language of the court in disposing of the second claim
was as follows:
"The other claim relates to the coffee consigned to Dunlop
& Company, of Richmond, and it is not denied that this was
enemy's property. The claimants allege a lien. The claim
states that Dunlop & Company owed them a balance of upward
of $35,326, and that they were authorized and directed by that
firm to receive and sell the coffee, and apply the proceeds, as
far as necessary, to the payment of the debt, and to hold the

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
MR.JUSTICE S11IRAS and Mr. JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

balance for the debtor firm. The same affiant made the test
affidavit, as in the other case. He referred, as in that case, to
an important correspondence, and failed to produce it. The
same remarks apply to that subject. It is to be inferred, also,
that the letters were written after the shipment of the cargo,
and, indeed, after the capture. In either case, the arrangement
was made too late to have any effect.
"The ownership of property in such cases cannot be changed
while it is in transitu. The capture clothes the captors with
all the rights of the owner which subsisted at the commencement of the voyage, and everything done thereafter, designed
to incumber the property or change its ownership, is a nullity. No lien created at any time by the secret contention of
the parties is recognized. Sound public policy and the right
administration of justice forbid it. This rule is rigidly enforced
by all prize tribunals. The property was shipped to the enemy.
It was diverted from its course by its capture. The allegation
of a lien wears the appearance of an afterthought."
It will be observed that there was no effort in this case to
claim property vested or transferred by bills of lading. Indeed,
it appeared that the bills of lading were made out in favor of the
consignees at R ichmond, and it was said by the court that the
legal effect of a bill of lading was to vest the ownership in
the consignees, citing Lawrence v. Minturn, 17 How. 100, in
which it was said that "the general effect of a bill of lading to
raise a presumption of property in goods in him to whom it
makes them deliverable, is conceded."
Next comes the cited case of The Hampton, libelled and condemned as prize of war in the Supreme Court for the District
of Columbia. It was held that mortgages on vessels captured
jure belli are to be treated only as liens, subject to be overridden by the capture, not as jura in re, capable of an enforcement superior to the claims of the captor.
Then comes the case of T]ie Battle, where there were claimants against the proceeds of sale of an enemy's vessel for supplies
furnished and for materials furnished and for work and labor.
The claims were dismissed by the District Court of the United
States, and on appeal that decree was affirmed by this court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS and IE. JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

which, through Justice Nelson, said: "The principle is too well
settled, that capture as prize of war overrides all previous liens,
to require examination," citing the cases of The Hlamton and
The Frances.
These are all the American cases cited, and it is to be observed
that, in none of them, was the court called upon to decide the
question whether bills of lading made or indorsed to neutrals,
before the declaration of war, on account of money furnished
to purchase cargoes, are protected as neutral goods from capture, within the general international rule, and the President's
proclamation, protecting such goods, when not contraband, from
condemnation as prize of war. The doctrine of these cases
simply amounts to the proposition, that bottomry bonds, mortgages and private agreements that factor's balances and advances should be preferred claims, are mere liens, which create
no property rights in vessels or cargoes, superior to the captor's
rights.
Let us-now examine the English cases cited.
The first is that of The Tobago, 5 C. Rob. 218. This was
the case of a bottomry bond, and it was held that such a bond
confers no property in the vessel ; that the property continues
in the former proprietor, who has given a right of action against
it, but nothing more. In the case of The Marianna,6 C. Rob.
24, there was a claim against a Spanish vessel, for unpaid purchase money on the vessel which had been sold by an American
owner to a Spanish merchant, but which was to be satisfied out
of the proceeds of a quantity of tallow consigned to England
on board this vessel for sale. Sir William Scott said:
"A claim is given on behalf of the former American proprietor, in virtue of a lien which he is said to have retained on the
property for the payment of the purchase money, but such an.
interest cannot, I conceive, be deemed sufficient to support a
claim of property in a court of prize."
In respect to the goods which were said to have been pledged
to secure the payment of the purchase money of the ship, Sir
William Scott said:
"Then as to the title of property in the goods which are said
to have been going as the funds out of which the payment for

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS and MR. JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

the ship was to have been made. That they were going for
the payment of a debt will not alter the property; there must
be something more. Even if bills of lading are delivered, that
circumstance will not be sufficient, unless accompanied with an
understanding that he who holds the bill of lading is to bear
the risk of the goods as to the voyage, and as to the market to
which they are consigned; otherwise, though the security may
avail pro lanto, it cannot be held to work any change in the
property."
It will be noticed that the shipper of the goods in this case
was the Spanish merchant, an enemy.
Finally, the case of ['lie Ida is relied on. 1 Spinks' Prize
Cases, 331. The statement of the case was as follows:
"The claim of neutral merchants for 2650 bags of coffee,
consigned to them on the credit of advances made by them was
disallowed. The claim is that of lien, which cannot be upheld
against captors. Further proof cannot be allowed when, there
has been an attempt to deceive the court by simulated papers."
In considering the evidence in the case, Dr. Lushington said:
"Now, that simulated bill of lading was certainly framed
for some purpose or other by desire of the master. It is a
well-known rule of this court that where there are contradictory papers the burden of proof lies on the claimant to show
that the contradiction is not inconsistent with the rights of a
belligerent power; and, I must say, I have not heard any satisfactory explanation of how or why these papers were framed,
except it was for the purpose of deceiving those who might
have to determine whether it was an enemy's property or not."
In discussing the law of the case, Dr. Lushbington said:
"It is contended by counsel that the property is in Behrens
& Company by virtue of the endorsement of the bills of lading;
and cases from common law have been cited in support of this.
I believe that, in.some circumstances, that would be the case.

They would have a legal title to the property; but I have considerable doubt whether it is not the law of this court that the
claimant must show that he has not only a legal, but an equitable title. If a mere legal title would justify the court in restoring property the consequences would be most l rming;

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR.JUSTICE SHIRAS and

MR.

JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

for nothing would be more easy than to cover enemies' property
from one end of the kingdom to the other. I strongly object
to the doctrine that if a legal title be shown this court is bound
to restore; for I hold that an equitable title is also necessary
to support a claim in this court."
Upon the whole, the learned judge was of the opinion that
the property belonged to an enemy, subject to claimant's charges,
and that it was not possible to doubt for a single moment that
there was an intention in the case, by means of colorable bills
of lading, to deceive and defraud Great Britain of its belligerent rights, by attempting to cover enemy's property as neutral.
The case of Tke Ida can therefore be cited as conceding that,
if the claimants bad vested in them the legal title to the goods
by virtue of the indorsement of the bills of lading, and had also
an equitable title, they would be entitled to a judgment of restoration. But the court was of opinion that there was no evidence whatever of any portion of the cargo belonging to a neu-:
tral. While it was true that the claimants exhibited a bill of
lading indorsed to them, yet another bill of lading not indorsed
was found on capture in possession of the master. Such a state
of facts justly created a belief that the transaction was essentially fraudulent, as an attempt to cover enemy's property.
We shall now consider some of the cases cited on behalf of
the claimants.
The Amy Warwick, 2 Sprague, 150; 2 Black, 635, is, in
several respects, a leading case, and is decisive of the present
one. It was there held that, where a neutral commission merchant purchased a cargo of coffee for enemy correspondents,
partly with their funds and partly with his own, and shipped
it under a bill of 'lading by which it was to be delivered to his
order, having a legal title and a beneficial interest, a prize court
should award him the amount of his advances, although the
residue of the property will be condemned as enemy's.
After a full statement of the facts, the conclusion was thus
stated by Judge Sprague:
"The claim of J. L. Phipps & Company was filed on the 4th
of September last. 'Italleges that this coffee was purchased by
them partly by funds of Dunlop, Moncure & Company, of Rich-

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
MR.JUSTICE SHIRAS

and Mu.

-687

JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

mond, and partly by £2000 of their own money; that the legal
title has always remained in them, and that no other person is
the legal owner, except the equitable interest of said Dunlop,
INoncure & Company.
"These facts seem plainly to lead to the conclusion that the
claimants ought to be repaid the amount which they expended
from their own funds in the purchase of the coffee, and that
the residue of the proceeds should be condemned. This result
I shall adopt, unless precluded from doing so by authority.
"The counsel for the captors contend that the claimants had
only a lien, and that liens will not be protected or regarded in
a prize court. This position is sustained by the authorities as
to certain kinds of liens. The extent of this doctrine and the
reasons on which it is founded are stated by the Supreme Court
in The Frances, 8 Cranch, 418. It is there said that ' cases of
liens created by the mere private contract of individuals, depending upon the different laws of different countries, are not allowed,
because of the difficulties which would arise in deciding upon
them, and the door which would be open to fraud.' Similar
reasons are given by Lord Stowcll in T/e Zlarianna,6 C. Rob.
24, and in several other cases. These reasons are especially
applicable to latent liens created under local laws. They do
not reach the case now before the court. This coffee was purchased by the claimants at Rio, and shipped by them on board
this brig under a bill of lading, by which the master was bound
to deliver it to their order, and they ordered it to be delivered
to J. L. Phipps & Company, that is, to themselves. They then
retained the legal title, and the possession of the master was
their possession. Being the legal owners of the property, they
can hardly be said to have a lien upon it; a lien being in strictness an incumbrance upon the property of another. Their real
character was that of trustees holding the legal title and possession, with a right of retention until their advances should
be paid. . . . The case of 7te an Jose Indians, 1 Wheat.
208, has been cited by the counsel for the claimants, and they
contend that it sustains their whole claim, and requires all the
coffee to be restored to them. That case is a stringent authority
to the extent of the £2000 which the claimants invested or ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS and MR. JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

vanced in the purchase; but I do not think that it authorizes
me-to go further."
This case was taken to the Circuit Court and there affirmed.
No appeal was taken to the Supreme Court from that part of
the decree which allowed the claim of Phipps & Company.
The decree of condemnation of the residue was affirmed. 2
Black, 635.
The bark Winifred was captured in May, 1861, off Cape
Henry, and confiscation of vessel and cargo was demanded as
being enemy's property. The cargo, consisting of 4200 bags
of coffee, had been purchased by Phipps & Company in Rio, as
agents for Crenshaw & Company, Richmond merchants. Phipps
& Company advanced their own funds to the extent of three
eighths of the cargo. The consignment formally was to shipper's order, but the bills of lading were sent forward indorsed
to Crenshaw & Company. Subsequently, Phipps & Company
made further advances of $20,622 on April 26, while the goods
were in transit, and, after the outbreak of hostilities, taking a
reassignment of the bills of lading. The District Court ordered
a restoration of three eighths of the cargo to Phipps & Company,
but refused to allow their claim for the further advances on the
other five eighths of the cargo, citing T/ie 1arianna, 6 C. Rob.
24, and The Frances, 8 Cranch, 418. But on appeal the Circuit Court, while affirming the decree allowing the claim against
the three eighths of the cargo, reversed that part of the decree
which refused the claim for the further advances, allowed further proofs, and in December 1863, allowed the entire claim
of Phipps & Company, with interest. The Winifred, Blatchford's Prize Cases, page 35, and note.
The Lynchburg was captured with her cargo in May, 1861,
at the mouth of Chesapeake Bay. Two thousand and forty-five
bags of coffee, part of her cargo, had been purchased by Maxwell, Wright & Company, as agents for Wortham & Company,
of Richmond. Maxwell, Wright & Company took bills of lading, consigning the cargo to their own order, and drew against
them on Brown, Shipley & Company, of London, for £6090,
who accepted the drafts and subsequently paid them. The entire cargo was destined ultimately for enemies. Wortham &

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS

and MR.

JUSTICE BREWER,

dissenting.

Company, of Richmond, claimed 504 bags of this shipment,
subject to the lien of Brown, Shipley & Company. The District Court restored to Brown, Shipley & Company 1541 bags,
but condemned the 504 bags claimed by Wortham & Company
as enemy's property. Judge Betts said:
"The claim to an absolute ownership of the 2045 bags was
placed before the court in the oral argument and in the written
'points filed in the cause by the counsel for the claimants, upon
the proposition of law that a bill of lading, transmitted to them
by the shipper to cover advances, passed to them Vhe title to
the cargb purchased therewith. If this doctrine be correct as
to mere commercial transactions, it does not prevail in prize
courts in derogation of the rights of captors, when the interest
of the claimant is only a debt, although supported by liens
equitable and tacit, or legal and positive, even of the character
of bottomry bonds, when not signified on the ship's papers at
the time of capture. The Fyrancee, 8 Cranch, 418 ; The Tobago, 5 C. Rob. 218; The Xarianna, 6 C. Rob. 24."
On appeal the Circuit Court affirmed as to the allowance of
the claim of Brown, Shipley & Company'for the 1541 bags,
but reversed the refusal of their further claim for 504 bags,
allowed the claimants to give further proofs, and ultimately
the 504 bags were restored by consent to the claimants. The
_Lynchburg, Blatchford's Prize Cases, 51, and note on p. 52.
The exigencies of trade have called a class of instruments
into being which are substantially acknowledgments by public
or private agents that they have received merchandise, and from
whom or on whose account; and usage has made the possession
of such documents equivalent to the possession of the property
itself. Among them the most notable is the bill of lading, in
respect to which, and replying to the question whether at law
the property of goods at sea passes by the indorsement of a bill
of lading, Buller, J., said, in his opinion in Lickbarrow v. Mason':
"Every authority which can be adduced, from the earliest
period of time down'to the present hour, agree that at law the
property does pass as absolutely and as effectually as if the
goods had been actually delivered into the hands of the conVOL. CLXXVII-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR.JUSTICE SHIRAS and Mn. JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

signee." Smith's Leading Cases, vol. part 11, 7th Am. ed, under
the head of Lickbarrow v. j[ason.
The conclusion warranted by the cases is that, as well advances made for the purchase of goods, as an absolute purchase,
are protected by bills of lading, whether made out directly to
the party purchasing or making the advancements, or indorsed
to him by the shipper.
While possession of the bills of lading imports a legal title to
the goods, yet in prize cases it is permitted for the courts to go
behind the bills of lading, if there is evidence tending to show
that the party in whose name they are issued, or to whom they
have been indorsed, has no equitable interest or is a mere cover
to an enemy. In the present case there was no transfer of the
property from an enemy to a neutral. Up to the time of shipment the entire cargo was owned by Pla Gibernau & Company. They transferred it to the London and River Plate Bank,
Limited, who in turn transferred it to Klienwort Sons & Company, who produced the bills of lading at the hearing and moved
the payment by them, before the capture of the vessel, of the
drafts whose negotiation furnished the moneys used in the purchase of the goods. The entire issue of each set of bills of
lading was possessed by Kleinwort Sons & Company, under
indorsements which gave to them only the right to demand
delivery from the vessel.
The case falls plainly within the law as administered in
The Amy Warwick, Te Winifi'ed and TThe Lynchiburg.
If the rule asked for by the captors iu this case should be
upheld, namely, that bills of lading indorsed to neutrals, acting
in good faith, who have advanced money to purchase goods
shipped long before the declaration of war, do not create a
right of property in the goods, there would be very little room
left for the operation of the President's proclamation exempting
neutral goods from condemnation. Such a rule would be very
unfortunate as respects the commerce of the United States in
case of hostilities between European countries. Owing to the
limited amount of merchant shipping owned in the United
States, the greater part of their products, whether breadstuffs
-or manufactured goods, has to be carried in foreign vessels, and

THE CARLOS F. ROSES.

691

MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS and MR. JUSTICE BREWER, dissenting.

it is quite evident that bankers and capitalists could not afford
to advance the moneys needed to make purchases, if they could
not be. protected against seizure by foreign belligerents, by the
indorsement to them of bills of lading. Only those who actually own the goods could safely ship them on vessels owned
by belligerents, and, what constitutes the larger part of international trade, the purchase and shipment of merchandise by
factors with moneys advanced by banking houses would, in
case of war, have to cease. The decree of the District Court
should be affirmed.

