POTTS v. HOLLEN.
Statement of the Case.

Creek Indians, and consequently the Land Office erred as matter of law in its decision for the plaintiff. Smith v. Townsend,
148 U. S. 490; Payne v. Robertson, 169 U. S. 323; Calhoun v.

Violet, 173 U. S. 60, 62. No opinion was expressed on this
question by the Supreme Court of the Territory, and we need
not now express an opinion. If the plaintiff should proceed
against the defendant in some other mode than by injunction,
the facts connected with his alleged unlawful entering upon the
lands opened for settlement under the above acts and proclamation can all be proved, and any question arising out of them as
to his disqualification to acquire any interest whatever in the
land in dispute can then be determined.
We are of opinion that the case made out by the plaintiff was
not such as to entitle him to a mandatory injunction, and that
the court of original jurisdiction erred in determining the cause
without a jury.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory is therefore
reversed, and the cause is remanded with directions to set
aside that decree, and for s uchfurtherproceedings as will be
consistent with law and this opinion.

POTTS v. HOLLEN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
NO. 143. Submitted February 1, 1900. -Decided

March 26, 1900.

For the reasons stated in the opinion in Black v. Jackson, ante, 349, the
court holds that the issue of fact involving the right of possession of the
premises in dispute could not properly be determined without the aid of
a jury, unless a jui'y wits waived; and that the case made by the plaintiff
was not such as to entitle him to a mandatory injunction.

THIS action was commenced by petition filed iii the District
Court for Kay County, Oklahoma Territory.
The plaintiff Hollen, the appellee here, alleged that on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

13th day of October, 1893, he made a homestead entry of the
southeast quarter of section 32, township 28 north, of range 3
east, I. M., in Perry land district, Oklahoma Territory, which
land office had jurisdiction over that tract, and the officers of
which had authority to make and allow such entry ; that there
was filed in that office at Perry a certified affidavit of contest
by defendant Potts ; that under the allegations of that contest
the case went to a hearing, after which a decision was rendered
in favor of plaintiff and the contest case was dismissed, from
which decision defendant appealed, but not within the time required by law, to the Commissioner of the General Land Office
who affirmed the decision of the local land office; that the defendant filed an amended .contest affidavit before the Commissioner, which was rejected and the motion for rehearing was
denied; that the defendant appealed from the Commissioner's
decision, and on the 9th day of June, 1896, the Sec'etary of the
Interior passed upon the case and affirmed the action of the
Commissioner; that all the proceedings *before the Interior
Department upon which the defendant was entitled to be heard
with reference to such land contest had been had and the case
was fully closed; that under and by virtue of his homestead
entry the plaintiff was' entitled to the exclusive use, benefit and
possession of all the southeast quarter of section 32, township
28 north, range 3 east; that under claim of right, based upon
the contest so dismissed, defendant entered upon said quarter
section and entered into possession of a part thereof, erecting or
causing to be erected a house and other improvements thereon,
and still maintained possession of a portion of the section under
the protest and against the wishes of plaintiff and without claim
or color of title thereto; that defendant at the time had pending before the Department of the Interior no contest or claim
or right or title to said tract or piece of land; that defendant
was insolvent and unable to respond in damages to the plaintiff,
and her possession of and improvements upon the tract prevented
the plaintiff from properly cultivating and using that portion of
the land in her possession; that defendant threatened, by retaining the possession of a portion of the tract, to involve the plaintiff in many vexatious suits, to his great and irreparable damage

POTTS v. HOLLEN.
Statement of the Case.

and injury; that she had been in possession of a portion of the
land since a short time after the opening of the Cherokee outlet;
that the plaintiff had no adequate remedy at law; that the defendant had used, cultivated and controlled about 25 acres of
the land to plaintiff's damage in the sum of one hundred and
fifty dollars; and that the rents and profits of the land so used
by the defendant would amount to about one hundred and fifty
dollars.
The relief asked was that the defendant, her agents and
employes, be restrained from interfering with the plaintiff's
possession, use and occupancy of the land included in his homestead entry : that she be enjoined from cultivating, improving
or occupying any part of the tract; and that she be permitted
within a time to be fixed to remove therefrom any improvements made by her prior to the plaintiff's homestead entry,
and vacate the land on the order of the court.
The defendant in her answer admitted that "defendant
[plaintiff] has the homestead entry in said land and that defendant filed a contest against said entry," but denied each
and every other material allegation of -the petitioner. The
defendant also alleged that "she filed a contest against the
said entry of the said tollen, charging and alleging in substance that plaintiff was disqualified to enter and hold lands by
reason of having entered the Cherokee outlet prior to 12 o'clock
noon of September 16, 1893, and run from the south side of
the Chillocco reservation, which is three and one half miles
south of the lines established in the President's proclamation;
that said contest was rejected and defendant duly appealed, and
while said cause was still pending defendant filed her amended
affidavit of contest against said entry, a copy of which said contest is attached to plaintiff's petition, marked 'Exhibit C,' and
hereby referred to and made a part of this answer. Defendant further alleges that within the time required by the rules
of practice in the Land Department, to wit, July 22, 1896, she
filed a motion for a review of the Secretary's decision of June 9,
1896, a copy of vhich said motion is hereto attached, marked
' Exhibit A,' and made a part hereof; and that said cause -is

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

now and was pending at the commencement of this action in
the Land Department of the United States."
The plaintiff filed a reply denying "each and every material
allegation" in the defendant's answer.
To sustain the issues on his part the plaintiff introduced in
evidence an official communication to the register and receiver
at Perry, Oklahoma, from the Commissioner of the Land Office
dated November 24,1896, which showed that the defendant's motion for a review of the previous action taken in the contest case
had been denied by the Land Department. That communication concluded: "The case is hereby closed, and you will advise
said Potts that she may, if she elects, file a new contest against
the entryman Hollen incorporating the charge set out in her
amended affidavit in dixe time the action taken, transmitting
therewith evidence of notice hereof and of the decision of the
department." The plaintiff then testified in his own behalf,.
stating that he had the homestead entry on the land in dispute; that' the defendant was residing on part of it, about
25 acres. The plaintiff having rested upon this proof, the
defendant demurred to the evidence upon two grounds: 1. It
did not sustain the allegations of the petition. 2. It did not
show that the .plaintiff had a cause of action. The. demurrer
was overruled, an exception to that action of the court being
taken. The defendant stood upon the demurrer and introduced
no evidence.
The trial court without a jury rendered judgment for the
plaintiff, enjoining the defendant from interfering with his right
to possess and control the land in question, "except that the defendant is hereby given the right to enter upon and harvest the
fall wheat crop she has sown upon the land in dispute, and is to
remove said wheat from said land within thirty days after the
same is ripe and fit to cut;" and she was further enjoined and
restrained "from removing or interfering [with] or injuring in
any way any well of water that she may have placed upon said
land, and all growing timber or trees that she may have placed
upon said land, and any growing timber or trees that she may
have planted."
The Supreme Court of the Territory affirmed the judgment

POTTS v. tIOLLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

of the inferior court. The syllabus of its opinion, prepared by
the court, is as follows: "Injunction-When properly granted.
-A filed a homestead entry for a tract of Government land.
B initiated a contest, alleging that A was disqualified from en-.
tering the land. The contest was by the Land Department decided in favor of A. During the pendency of such contest B
filed *anamended affidavit of contest, alleging a different ground
of disqualification upon the part of A. Shortly after B first
instituted the first contest, B in some manner became possessed
of about 25 acres of the land, and held such possession' until after
the final decision upon the first contest. Held, that upon the
authority of"Sproal v. Durland,2 Okl. 21, A was entitled to an
injunction restraining B from interfering with the possession of
A, and requiring him to remove from the land in dispute." 6
Okla. 696.
From the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory
the defendant appealed to this court.
AB'. John TV.Shartel and Xr. S. H. Harrisfor appellant.
MX. Fred. Beall for appellee.
XUR.

JUSTICE HARLAN,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.

The motion to dismiss the present appeal is denied. The land
in question is shown to be of greater value than five thousand
dollars. In addition to the affidavits filed on the subject of
value, the record contains an order made by the Supreme Court
of the Territory on the application for appeal stating that more
than the above amount was involved in the action. *Thisorder
we assume was based upon proof as to value.
One of the assignments of error is that the Supreme Court of
the Territory erred in holding that the trial court had jurisdiction of the subject of the action and the right to entertain the
suit as a proceeding in equity and without a trial by jury.
For the reasons stated in the opinion in Black v. Jackson,
just decided, we adjudge that the issue of fact involving the
right of possession of the premises in dispute could not properly
VOL. CLXXVii-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

be determined without the aid of a jury,, unless a jury was
waived. Without repeating what was said in that opinion, we
also hold that the case made by the plaintiff was not such as to
entitle him to a mandatory injunction.
The decree is reversed and cause remanded for such further
proceedings as may be consistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

WESLEY v. EELLS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT CO1RT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 176. Argued and submitted March 9, 1900.-Decided April 9, 1900.

Specific performance of an executory contract is not of absolute right. It
rests entirely in judicial discretion, exercised, it is true, according to the
settled principles of equity, and not arbitrarily or capriciously, yet always with reference to the facts of the particular case.
A court of equity will not compel specific performance if under all the circumstances it would be inequitable to do so.
It is a settled rule in equity that the defendant in a suit brought for the
specific performance of an executory contract will not be compelled to
take a title about which doubt may reasonably exist or which may expose him to litigation.
Speaking generally, a title is to be deemed doubtful where a court of coordinate jurisdiction has decided adversely to it or to the principles on
which it rests.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William I. Lyles for appellant.
fr. Arthur St. J.Newberry for appellee.
Mr. William A. Barber as amicus curice, filed a brief.
MN[R. JUSTICE H[ARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Ohio by Wesley a citizen
of New York against Eells a citizen of Ohio.

