OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. MICHIGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME CouRT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 220. Argued November 9, 1899.-Decided April 16, 1900.
A proceeding for a mandamus is "a suit" within the meaning of that term
as employed in Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
A Federal question, which was decided in the court below, is involved in
this suit.
The statute of June 13, 1848, c. 448, " to meet war expenditures and for
i
other purposes," does not forbid an express company, upon which is imposed the duty of paying a tax upon express matter, from requiring the
shipper to furnish the stamp, or the means of paying for it.

THE Attorney General of the State of Michigan on the relation of George F. Moore and others commenced proceedings
in the Circuit Court of Wayne County, Michigan, against the
American Express Company. Tbe-company was described as
"a joint stock association organized and existing under the
laws of the State 6f New York and having its principal business office located in the city of New York, in said State." It
was averred that the company complied with the requirements
of certain statutes of the State of Michigan and had obtained
the necessary certificate authorizing it to carry on an express
business in that State, and in order to conduct such business
had a large number of agents and offices in the State. The
petition then alleged that on June 13, 1898, the Congress of
the United States passed an act commonly defignated as the
War Revenue Act,, by which it was made the duty of express
companies on receiving a package for carriage to issue a receipt
for such package, and providing that the receipt thus issued
should bear a one cent stamp. After referring to the text of
the act of Congress on the above subject, it was alleged that
by the provisions of the law in question the primary and absolute duty yas imposed upon express companies to provide
the receipt and to affix and cancel the one cent stamp as required by law. The following averments were then made:
"That .by reason of a desire of the respondent (the express
company) to avoid the payment of the stamp tax, so called,
and to impose such 'obligation on the shipper, the respondent

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. MICHIGAN.

405

Statement of the Case.

herein refuses to accept any goods for transportation unless
such shipper attaches the stamp to the said bill of lading, manifest or other evidence of receipt and forwarding for each shipment, or furnishes the money or means for that purpose to the
said company, and that the said company thereby not only
avoids its duty under said act of Congress to pay and bear its
proportion of the revenues to meet war expenditures as provided by said act, but violates its duty as a common carrier to
receive, accept and deliver such goods, wares and merchandise
so offered and tendered to it for that purpose."
A number of instances were specified where it was averred
the express company on the tender to it of packages for transportation as a common carrier had refused to receive the same
and to issue receipts therefor "unless a stamp of the value of
one cent was paid or provided" by the shipper. It was charged
that the conduct of the express company was in violation of
the obligations imposed upon it by the act of Congress in question, and constituted a refusal to perform its duty as a common
carrier. The prayer was for a mandamus commanding the
company to receive packages for transportation by express and
issue a receipt with stamp duly canceled thereon, without seeking to compel shippers who might tender packages for carriage
either to pay for the one cent stamp or to provide the means
for so doing.
The answer of the express company admitted that it required
persons who tendered packages for carriage, by express, either
to pay or provide the means for defraying the cost of the one
cent stamp, but denied that its conduct in so doing was a violation of the act of Congress by which the one cent tax on express receipts was imposed. On the contrary, it was averred
that the act of Congress, when properly construed, although
imposing the absolute duty to issue a receipt for every package
as therein provided, left the question of who should pay for the
stamp free for adjustment between the shipper and the express
company, By the act of Congress, it was asserted, the express
company had, therefore, the right or privilege of insisting that
those who offered packages to be carried by express should
either furnish the one cent stamp or provide the means of pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ng for it. I~Was, moreover, alleged that the company had in
effect but increased its rates on each shipment by adding to the
previous rates the sum of the stamp tax. And it was averred
that this increase the company was not forbidden to make, by
the act of Congress imposing the one cent stamp tax, and that
the rate as increased by exacting that the one cent stamp should
be furnished or that its value be paid for by the shipper was
just and reasonable, and was not in conflict with the act of
Congress. The answer was in effect demurred to as not stating
a defence. The case was submitted for decision on petition
and answer. The court ordered the mandamus to issue substantially as prayed for. The cause was then removed by writ
of certiorarito the Supreme Court of the State of Michigan,
where the judgment of the trial court was affirmed. 77 Northwestern Rep. 317. By an allowance of a writ of error the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the State is before us for
review.
Xr. Lewis Cass Ledyard for plaintiff in error.
.Ar. C. E. Warner for defendants in error.
MR. JUsTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

We will first dispose of the claim that this court is without
jurisdiction to review the judgment, and that hence the writ of
error should be dismissed. The contention is based upon the following: 1, that the proceeding below, being for a mandamus, was
not a "suit" within the meaning of that term as employed in
section 709 of the Revised Statutes; and 2, because no Federal
question is involved and no such question was below decided.
The first proposition is not tenable. XocPkerson v. Blacker,
146 U. S. 1, 24; Iartnan v. Greenouglh, 102 U. S. 672..
The second is likewise without merit. From the summary
of the pleadings just made, in the statement of the case, it is
apparent that the issue between the parties involved an assertion on the one side that the act of Congress imposed on the
express company the absolute duty of furnishing the receipt, of

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. MICHIGAN.

40

Opinion of the Court.

affixing the stamp thereto and canceling the sam6. The argument that it was hence a violation of the duty, imposed upon
the express company by the act of Congress, for the company
either to demand the stamp or the amount thereof from the
shipper, and that it was also a violation of the act of Congress
for the express company to increase its rates to the extent necessary to accomplish the result of securing the reimbursement
of the amount of the one cent stamp tax. On the other hand,
the defence of the express company was that under the act of
Congress it had the right, privilege or immunity (which it specially set up and claimed) of demanding the payment of the one
cent or of increasing its rates to the extent that the tax imposed
a burden upon it, provided only the rates charged were just
and reasonable. The question thus presented was in substance
the only one decided by the Supreme Court of the State. In
stating the issues arising for its decision the court said: "The
main question in the case relates to the construction to be placed
upon the act in question," that is, the act of Congress. After
a review of the provisions of the statute it was decided that
under it the express company could not in any event or by any
means transfer the burden of the tax in question. Considering
the right of the express company to increase its rates to the
extent necessary to secure the payment of the tax by the shipper, the court said:
"It is contended, however, that the company has the right to
make new regulations and establish new rates to meet all this
burden. 'Itis contended that the effect of this is to throw the
burden upon the shipper. It is apparent upon the face of this
proceeding that the very purpose of this change in the regulations and the increase of rates is to avoid the payment of the
tax and thus cast upon the shipper the.burden which the act of
Congress puts upon the company. This is but an evasion and
a subterfuge to avoid the terms of the act."
The foregoing reasoning was supplemented by comment upon
the fact that the increase of rate resulting from the charge of
one cent on each package was made without reference to the
distance each package was to be carried. We do not, however,
understand the remarks on this subject as implying that the

OCTOBER TERM; 1899.
Opinion of the -ourt.

court below decided that the rate as increased by the one cent
was intrinsically unreasonable without regard to the provisions
of the act of Congress, but only that the rate as so increased
was unreasonable, because an attempt on the part of the express
company to shift the burden of the tax imposed upon it by the
act of Congress, and hence was by legal inference forbidden by
that act. No other view is possible when the state of the record
is considered. As we have seen, the controversy was submitted
on petition and answer. It is nowhere, however, averred in the
petition that the rates, with or without the addition of the tax,
were intrinsically unjust and unreasonable; while in the answer, following an averment as to the enactment of the stamp
act and its resulting effects, it was averred as follows:
"Respondent therefore decided to raise and did raise its rates
of transportation to an amount 'reasonable and just, and only
necessary to meet the change of conditions made by said act,
and save itself from great loss of revenue and profits as coinpared with its earnings before the passage of said act.
"And respondent submits and asserts that it had the full
and perfect right to make such change in its method of, transacting its business and in its former rates for transportation."
As, therefore, upon the submission of the cause upon the
pleadings, there was no controversy as to the intrinsic reasonableness of the increased rates, it follows that if we were to
hold that the court below had decided that the increased rates
were unreasonable in themselves, we would conclude that the
court below had so held, although it was'substantially admitted
on the record by both parties that the increase of rates was
just and reasonable, if not forbidden by the act of Congress.
But such action cannot be attributed consistently with reason
and justice. This being the state of the case, the Federal question presented is wholly unaffected by what was said by the
court on the subject of the right of the corporation to increase
its charges by the amount of the tax. As there was no allegation that the rates existing prior to the imposition of the one
cent stamp tax were unreasonable, it would follow that the
rates which were otherwise reasonable were decided not to be
so solely because there was added to the charge for each pack-

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. MICHIGAN.

409

Opinion of the Court.

age the exact amount of the increased cost for transporting the
package, occasioned as to each package, by the specific imposition on each by the act of Congress of the one cent stamp
tax. But to cause rates which were conceded to be reasonable
to become unreasonable because alone of such increased charge
the assumption must be made that the act of Congress not only
imposed the burden of the tax solely on the express company,
but also forbade its shifting the same by any and every method.
And no other view is, in reason, possible when the averments
of the answer are borne in mind. It hence results that the
Federal question, althbugh changed in form of statement, remains in substance the same. In the changed form it is as
follows: Did the act of Congress deprive the express company
of the right to shift the burden of the tax by increasing the
rate by the exact amount distinctly and separately imposed by
the act upon each shipment, and hence render the charge unreasonable, which would be in itself reasonable, except for the
hypothesis that the act of Congress renders all efforts to shift
the tax illegal.
It follows that the case as made by the pleadings, and which
was decided below, involved a right, privilege or immunity
under the act of Congress, which was specially set up and
claimed by the express company, to contract with the shippers
for the payment of the tax provided by the act of Congress, or
to increase its rate, within the limit of reasonableness, to the
extent of such tax, which right, privilege or immunity was denied and held to be without merit by the court below. There
is therefore jurisdiction. Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
The controversy which is contained in the merits of the cause
is resolvable into three questions: First. Does the act of Congress impose upon the express company the duty of making a
receipt for a package tendered to it, and does it also forbid the
express company from requiring the shipper to furnish the
stamp to be affixed to the receipt, or of supplying the means
of paying for the same? Second. If the act of Congress does
impose such duty on the express company and does inhibit it
from requiring that the shipper furnish the stamp or the means
of paying for it, does the act further forbid the express com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

pany from seeking to cast the buiden on the shipper by an increase of rates? Third. And, as a corollary of the second
proposition, does an increase of rate by an express company
which is otherwise just and reasonable become unlawful, under
the act of Congress, because such increase is made with the
purpose of shifting the burden of the one cent tax from its own
shoulders to that of the shipper?
The first proposition is unnecessary to be considered, since
even although it be conceded that the act of Congress imposes
on the express company the duty of paying the one cent stamp
tax, this admission would not be at all decisive of the cause
unless also it be ascertained under the second proposition, that
the act of Congress also forbids the express company from
shifting the burden of the tax by means of an increase of rates.
And no necessity for passing on the first proposition arises
from the mere fact that the decision of the second proposition
requires a consideration of the provisions of the statute which
it would be necessary to take into view if the first proposition
was under consideration.
It is also to be observed that the second and third propositions which involve, the one the right to shift the burden of
the tax by exacting that the one 'cent be provided and the other
the power to increase rates within the limits of 'the requirement
that the charges as increased be reasonable, both depend upon
the same considerations.
Indeed, the question into which all the issues are ultimately
resolvable is whether the right exists to shift the burden, of
course ever circumscribed by the duty of not exceeding reasonable rates. If it does not, that is, upon the h ypothesis that it
not only can be, but is forbidden, then it must result that all
methods adopted to attain the prohibited result are void. On
the contrary, if the right to seek to shift the burden obtains
then the substantial result of what is done becomes the criterion,
and the mere fact that the motive, announced, for a reasonable
increase of rates, is declared to be a shifting of the burden, cannot-prevent the exercise of the lawful right.
The special provisions of the law upon which the case turns
are the first paragraph of section 6 and the express and freight

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. MICHIGAN.

411

Opinion of the Court.

clause of Schedule A, forming a patt of section 25. 30 Stat.
451, 459.
The paragraph of section 6 referred to is as follows:
"SEc. 6. That on and after the fiist day of July, eighteen
hundred and ninety-eight, there shall be levied, collected, and
paid, for and in respect of the several bonds, debentures, or cer,
tificates of stock and of indebtedness, and other documents,
instruments, matters, and things mentioned and described in
Schedule A of this act, or for or in respect of the vellum, parchment, or paper upon which such instruments, matters, or things,
or any of them, shall be written or printed by any person or
persons, or party who shall make, sign, or issue the same, or for
whose use or benefit the same shall be made, signed, or issued,
the several taxes or sums of money set down in figures against
the same, respectively, or otherwise specified or set forth in the
said schedule."
. Now, there is nothing in the provisions just quoted which,
by the widest conjecture, can be construed as expressly forbidding the person upon whom the taxes are cast frorn shifting
the same by contract or by any other lawful means. An inference to the contrary arises from the fact that the duty is im-'
posed in the alternative on "any person or persons, or party,
who shall make, sign, or issue the same, or for whose use or
benefit the same shall be made, signed, or issued."
The language of the express and freight clause of Schedule A
is as follows:
"EXPRESS AND FREIGHT: It shall be the duty of every railroad or steamboat conipany, carrier, express company, or corporation, or person whose occupation is to act as such, to issue
to the shipper or consignor or his agent, or person from whom
any goods are accepted for transportation, a bill of lading,
manifest, or other evidence of receipt and forwarding for each
shipment received for carriage and transportation, whether in
bulk or in boxes, bales, packages, bundles, or not so inclosed or
included ; and there shall be duly attached aud cancelled, as is
in this act provided, to each of said bills of lading, manifests,
or other memorandum, and to each duplicate thereof, a stamp
of the value of one cent: Provided,That but-one bill of lading

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be required on bundles or packages of newspapers when
inclosed in one general bundle at the time of shipment. Any
failure to issue such bill of lading, manifest, or other memorandum, as herein provided, shall subject such railroad or steamboat company, carrier, express company, or corporation or
person to a penalty of fifty dollars for each offence, and no such
bill of lading, manifest, or other memorandum shall be used in
evidence unless it shall be duly stamped as aforesaid."
The argument is that as it is made the duty of the express
company to make and issue "a bill of lading, manifest 'or other
evidence of receipt and forwarding for each shipment,
and there shall be duly attached and cancelled, as in this act
provided, to each of said bills of lading, manifests or other
memorandum, and to each duplicate thereof, a stamp of the
value of one cent;" therefore, the obligation is imposed abso.lutely on the express company, not only to make and furnish
the-receipt, but to issue it with the stamp duly cancelled. But
as we have said though the correctness of the claim be arguendo taken for granted, such concession does not suffice to dispose of the essential issues. They are that by the statute the
express company is forbidden from shifting the burden by an
increase of rates, although such increased rates be in themselves
reasonable. As no express provisions sustaining the propositions are found in the law, they must rest solely upon the general assumption that because it is concluded that the law has
cast upon the express company the duty of paying the one cent
stamp tax, there is hence to be implied a prohibition restraining the express company from shifting the burden by means
of an increase of rates within the limits of what is reasonable.
In other words, the cpntention comes to this, that the act in
question is not alone a law levying taxes and providing the
means for collecting them, but is moreover a statute determining that the burden must irrevocably continue to be upon the
one on whom it is primarily placed. The result follows that
all contracts or acts shifting the burden, and which would be
otherwise valid, become void. To add by implication such a
provision to. a tax law would be contrary to its intent, and be
in conflict with the general object which a law levying taxes

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. MICHIGAN.

413

Opinion of the Court.

is naturally presumed to effectuate. Indeed, it seems almost
impossible to suppose that a purpose of such a character could
have been contemplated, as the widest conjecture would not
be adequate to foreshadow the far reaching consequences which
would ensue from it. To declare upon what person or property all taxes must primarily fall is a usual purpose of a law
levying taxes. To say when and how the'ultimate burden of
a tax shall be distributed among all the members of society
would necessitate taking into view every possible contract
which can be made, and would compel the weighing of the
final influence of every conceivable dealing between man and
man. A tax rests upon real estate. Can it be said that by
the law imposing such a tax it was intended to prevent the
owner of real property from taking into consideration the
amount of a tax thereon, in determining the rent which is to
be exacted by him? A tax is imposed upon stock in trade.
Must it be held that the purpose of such a law is to regulate
the price at which the goods shall be sold, and restrain the
merchant therefore from distributing the sum of the tax in the
price charged for his merchandise ? As the means by which
the burdens of taxes may be shifted are as multiform and as
various as is the power to contract itself, it follows that the
argument relied on if adopted would control almost every conceivable form of contract and render them void if they had
the result stated. Thus, the price of all property, the result
of all production, the sum of all wages, would be controlled irrevocably by a law levying taxes, if such a law forbade a shifting of the burden of the tax and avoided all acts which brought
about that result. It cannot be doubted that to adopt, by implication, the view pressed upon us, would be to virtually destroy all freedom of contract, and in.its final analyses would
deny the existence of all rights of property. And this becomes
more especially demonstrable when the nature of a stamp tax
is taken into consideration. A stamp duty is embraced within
the purview of those taxes which are denominated hi'irect,
and one of the natural characteristics of which is, although it
may not be essential, that they are susceptible of being shifted
from the person upon whom in the first instance the duty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

payment is laid. We are thus invoked by construction to add
to the statute a provision forbidding all attempts to shift the
burden of the stamp tax when the nature of the indirect taxation which the statute creates suggests a contrary inference.
And, in this connection, although we have already called attention to the consequences which must generally result from
the application of the doctrine contended for, it will not be inappropriate to refer to certain of the provisions of the act now
under consideration, which more aptly serve to make particularly manifest the consequences indicated. Thus, perfumery,
patent medicines and many other articles are required by the
statute to be stamped by the owner before sale. The logical
result of the doctrine referred to would be that the price of the
articles so made amenable to a stamp tax could not be increased,
so as to shift the cost of the stamp upon the consumer. Yet
it is apparent that such a construction of the statute would be
both unnatural and strained.
The argument is not strengthened by the contention that as
the law has imposed the stamp tax on the carrier, public policy
forbids that the carrier should be allowed to escape his share
of the public burdens by shifting the tax to others who are
presumed to have discharged their due share of taxes. This
argument of public policy if applied to a carrier would be
equally applicable to all the other stamp taxes which the law
imposes. Nor is the fact that the express company is a common carrier and engaged in a business in which the, public has
an interest and which is subject to regulation, of importance
in determining the correctness of the proposition relied upon.
The mere fact that the stamp duty is imposed upon a common
carrier does not divest such tax of one of its usual characteristics or justly imply that the carrier is in consequence of the
law deprived of its lawful right to fix reasonable rates. Unquestionably a carrier is subject to the requirement of reasonable rates, but as we have seen, no question of the intrinsic
unreasonableness of the rates charged arises on this record or
is at issue in this cause. As previously pointed out, to decide
as a matter of law that rates are essentially unreasonable from
the mere fact that their enforcement will operate to shift the

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMIPANY v. MICHIGAN.

415

Opinion of the Court.

burden of a stamp tax would-be in effect but to hold that the
act of Congress by the mere fact of imposing a stamp tax forbids all attempts to shift it, and consequently that the carrier
is deprived by the law of the right to fix rates, even although
the limit of reasonable rates be not transcended. This reduces
the contention back to the unsound proposition which we have
already examined and disposed of.
There is a special provision of the law which grants affirmatively the right to add the tax to the cost of an instrument, and
hence it is urged this express authority in one case is pregnant
with the denial of a right to do so in other cases. The clause
in the statute referred to is found in a paragraph of Schedule A,
whereby a stamp tax is imposed on "Bill of exchange, (inland,)
draft, certificate of deposit drawing interest or order for the
payment of any sum of money.

.

"

The second and concluding sentence of the paragraph reads
as follows:
"And from and after the first day of July, eighteen hundred
and ninety-eight, the provisions of this paragraph shall apply
as well to original domestic money orders issued by the government of the United States, and the price of such money
orders shall be increased by a sum equal to the value of the
stamps herein provided for."
Without the provision last quoted, authority would have been
wanting to increase the cost of a government money order, by
adding the sum of the tax imposed upon such 6rder to the
charge therefor, because the charge for a money order was
fixed by law. This at once explains the necessity for conferring
authority to add to the cost of the money order the amount of
the stamp tax.' Instead, therefore, of giving rise to the suggestion that the right to shift the burden of other stamp taxes was
taken away in all cases where there was liberty and power to
contract, the provision relied on is persuasive to the c ontrary.
For, clearly, the express authority conferred to do that which
the law otherwise forbade in consequence of the want of power
in a government official, cannot with reason be held to imply a
prohibition against doing that which was not forbidden by law.
The argument, in effect, amounts to this and nothing more;

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

that, because it was imperatively necessary to confer a power
upon a government officer which, owing to statutory restriction, he otherwise would not have possessed, therefore the legal
deduction must be drawn that freedom of contract as between
those who had the right to contract was destroyed.
But it is asserted that the War Revenue Act of 1898 was
modelled upon the act of July 1, 1862, providing internal revenue tax, 12 Stat. 432, and as the act of 1862 plainly manifested
the purpose of Congress to impose a stamp tax on express coinpanies and to forbid them from shifting the burden arising from
such tax, therefore the act under consideration should be construed as having the same effect. The fact that the present
act was modelled upon the act of 1862 is undoubted, (see section 94 of the act of 1862, 12 Stat. 475,) but the text of the act
of 1862 expressed no restraint upon the power of shifting by
contract or by an increase of rates within the limit of the requirement that they should be reasonable. It follows that
testing the present act by that of 1862 throws no additional
light upon the controversy. The claim that the act of 1862
contained a prohibition against shifting is thus inferred. By
the act of 1862 a stated per centum of tax was imposed upon
the gross receipts of railroads, steamboats and ferryboats, as
well as toll bridges. (Section 80, 12 Stat. 468.) After providing for the levy and collection of the taxes in question, the following proviso was applied to the section by which the taxes
just referred to were levied: "Provided, That all such persons,
companies and corporations shall have the right to add the
duty or tax imposed hereby to their rates of fare whenever
their liability thereto may commence, any limitations which
may exist by law or by agreement with any person or company
which may have paid or be liable to pay such fare to the contrary notwithstanding.".
This express authority to shift the burden of the tax on gross
receipts, it is claimed under the rule of incluio unit8s, justifies
the implication that the power to shift did not exist as to taxes
imposed by other portions of the act of 1862, to which the proviso did not apply.
In passing it is worthy of remark that by the act of March 3,

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. MICHIGAN.

417

Opinion of the Court.

1863, 12 Stat. 713, it was enacted (see. 10) that on and after
the 1st day of April, 1863, "any person or persons, firms, companies or corporations, carrying on an express business shall, in
lieu of the tax and stamp duties imposed by existing laws, be
subject to pay a duty of two per centum on the gross amount
of all the receipts of such express business, and shall be subject
to the same provisions, rules, and penalties as are prescribed in
section 80 of the act to which this is an amendment." In other
words, when in 1863 the stamp tax relating to express companies was abrogated and a tax on gross receipts substituted
therefor, the express companies were authorized to add the
result of the gross receipt tax to their charges, any law or contract to the contrary. But the implication deduced from the
authority conferred by the statute of 1862 to shift the burden
of the tax on gross receipts levied on railroads, etc., by an increase of charges, is unsound. Indeed, the proviso in question,
when properly construed, gives rise to an inference contrary to
the one sought to be drawn from it.
The tax imposed under the section in question was not in
form a stamp tax, but on gross receipts, and the proviso referred to may, from abundance of caution, have been inserted
to leave no room for the assumption that a tax thereby imposed
was a direct tax and not subject to be shifted. Besides, the
whole pontext manifests the purpose not to declare a rule in
violation of public policy as to particular corporations, but to
enable such corporations to.possess the power to shift the tax
by increasing its charges, even although contracts or restrictions
previously imposed might otherwise prevent.
The right to shift by an increase of rates within what is reasonable can only be held to be illegal upon the assumption that
publid policy forbids it. If such be taken to have been the
principle of public policy embodied in the act of 1862, that act
must be held to have repudiated, by the proviso to section 80,
the very public policy by the light of which it is contended
the act must be interpreted. If there was a rule of public policy giving rise to the.assumption that stamp taxes relating to
express companies could not be shifted, it becomes impossible
inreason to understand why, when the taxation was changed
VOL. CLXxvii-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

by the act of 1863 from a stamp tax to one on gross receipts,
the express companies should have been brought within the
proviso to section 80 of the act of 1862. Clearly, if the rule of
public policy which is relied on existed it would have been as
cogently applicable to the one form of tax as to the other.
In the case of the State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232, the court
was called upon to notice a state law conferring a right to
charge over by an increase of rates the sum of tax imposed.
In considering the subject (pp. 273, 274) it was said:
"The provision is as follows: ' Corporations whose lines of
improvement are used by others for the transportation of
freight, and whose only earnings arise from tolls charged for
such use, are authorized to add the tax hereby imposed to said
tolls, and to collect the same therewith.' Evidently this contemplates a liability for the tax beyond that of the company
required to pay into the treasury,. and it authorizes the burden
to be laid upon the freight carried, in exemption of the corporation owning the roadway. It carries: the tax over and beyond the carrier to the thing carried. Improvement companies,
not themselves authorized to act as carriers, but having only
power to construct And maintain roadways, charging tolls for
the use thereof, are generally limited by their charters in the
rates of toll they are allowed to charge. Hence the right to
increase the tolls to the extent of the tax was' given them in
order that the tax might come from the freight transported,
and not from the treasury of the companies. It required no
such grant to companies which not only own their roadw'ay,
.but have the right to transport thereon. Though the tolls they
may exact are limited, their charges for carriage are not.
They can, therefore, add the tax to the charge for transportation without further authority."
Other contentions as to the construction of the act based
upon various other provisions have been pressed with great
earnestness, but we deem it unnecessary to consider them, as
the foregoing considerations dispose of the case. It follows
that "the court below erred in holding that by the act of Congress the express company was forbidden from shifting the
burden of the stamp tax by an increa-e of rates Which were
not in themselves unreasoiable,

CRAWFORD v. HUBBELL.
Counsel for Parties.

The judgment below rendered must, therefore, be reversed, and
the case be remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion, and it is so ordered.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

and MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissenting.

We are of opinion that the act of Congress imposed upon
the Express Company the duty not only of affixing at its own
expence the required stalnp upon any receipt issued by it to a
shipper, but of cancelling such stainp- thus giving to the shipper a receipt that could, when necessary, be used as evidence.
Whether the company, having issued a receipt duly stamped
and cancelled, could increase its charges against the shipper
for the purpose, whether avowed or not, of meeting this additional expense, is not, in our opinion, a Federal question, and
upon that point this court need not express an opinion.

CRAWFORD v. HUBBELL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 248. Argued November 8, 9, 1899. - Decided April 16, 1900.

The matter embraced in the questions submitted to this court has been
considered, and was passed on in the opinion in American Express Co.
v. Michigan, ante, p. 404, which is followed in this case.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederick R. Kellogg and Mr. Allan L. McDermott for
appellant. Yr. James B. Dill was on their brief.
Mr. CharlesSteele and Yr. Charles B. Alexanderfor appellee.
Mr. William D. Guthrie and Yr. Theodore S Beecher were
on their brief.

