OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

in reaching the conclusion that it covered the case of injuries
to persons as well as that of injury to goods and merchandise,
and that these proceedings were a good defense to the libel.
It follows that the claims of the intervening libellants, Mrs.

Blesine and Mrs. Hester, were valid claims under the limited
liability act, notwithstanding that there was no lien under the
local law, and that there was no error in deducting a moiety of
these claims from the amount awarded Springer.
Upon the whole case we are of opinion that the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals was right, and it is therefore, as
to both cases,
Ajfirnmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissented.

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. WITHERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 170. Argued March 6, 1900. -Decided

April 9, 1900.

By the rules of the beneficial or insurance branch of the Supreme Lodge
Knights of Pythias, persons holding certificates of endowment or insurance were required to make their monthly payments to the Secretary of
the subordinate section before the tenth day of each month ; and it was
made the duty of the Secretary to forward such monthly payments at
once to the Board of Control. If such dues were not received by the
Board of Control on or before the last day of the month, all members of
the section stood suspended and their certificates forfeited, with the right
to regain their privileges if the amounts were paid within thirty days
after the suspension of the section; provided, no deaths had occurred in
the meantime. There was a further provision that the section should be
responsible to the Board of Control for all moneys collected, and that the
officers of the section should be regarded as the agents of the members,
and not of the Board of Control. The insured made his paynents promptly,
but the Secretary of the section delayed the remittance to the Board of
Control until the last day of the month, so that such remittance was not
receivced until the fourth day of the following month. The insured in the
meantime died. Holti" Tha he Suprem Iodge having undertaken to

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. WITHERS.
Opinion of the Court.
control the Secretary of the section by holding the section responsible for
moneys collected, and requiring him to render an account and remit each
month, - a matter over which the insured had no eontrol,-he was thereby
made the agent of the Supreme Lodge, and that the provision that he
should be regarded as the agent of the insured was nugatory, and that
the insured having made his payments promptly, his beneficiary was entitled to recover.

THIS was an action originally begun in the Circuit Court of
Hale County, Alabama, by Josephine R. Withers, to recover of
the defendant the amount of a certain certificate or policy of
insurance upon the life of her husband.
The case was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Middle District of Alabama, upon the petition of the
defendant and upon the ground that the Supreme Lodge Knights
of Pythias was a corporation organized by act of Congress, and
hence that the controversy arose under the Constitution and laws
of the United States.
The case was submitted to a jury upon an agreed statement
of facts, and the court instructed a verdict for the plaintiff in
the sum of three thousand dollars, the amount of the policy,
with interest, upon which verdict a judgment was entered for
$3392.54. The case was taken by writ of error to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed the judgment. 59 IT. S. App.
177. Whereupon the defendant sued out a writ of error from
this court.
The facts, so far as they are material, are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne for plaintiff in error. Xlr. Alexander
Britton and Mr. H. I. Field were on his brief. Mr. Tionas
G. Jones and Mr. Charles P. Jones filed a brief for same.
Mr. Edward -Do Grafenried for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

The Supreme Lodge Knights of Pythias is a fraternal and
benevolent society, incorporated by an act of Congress of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

June 29, 1894, 28 Stat. 96, as the successor of a former corporation of the same name, organized under an act approved
May 5, 1870. The beneficial or insurance branch of the order
is known as the endowment rank, which is composed of those
members of the order who have taken out benefit certificates.
Such members are admitted into local subordinate branches
known as Sections. The members of each Section elect their
own president and secretary. The endowment rank is governed
by a Board of Control whose officers are a president and secretary, and whose place of business is in Chicago. The endowment rank is governed by a constitution and general laws enacted by the Supreme Lodge, and by rules and regulations
adopted by the Board of Control and approved by the Supreme
Lodge.
On January 1, 1883, Robert W. Withers made application
for? membership in the endowment rank, and in that application
made the following statement: "I hereby agree that I will
punctually pay all dues and assessments to which I may become
liable, and that I will be governed, and this contract shall be
controlled by all the laws, rules and regulations of the order
governing this rank, now in force, or that may hereafter be
enacted, or submit to the penalties therein contained." His
application was accepted, and, after receiving a certificate under the first act of incorporation which he voluntarily surrendered, he received the certificate upon which this action is
brought. This certificate recited the original application for
membership dated January 1, 1883, the surrender of .the former certificate and the application for transfer to the fourth
class, which were "made a part of this contract, . . . and
in consideration of the payment heretofore to the said endowment rank of all monthly payments, as required, and the fall
compliance with all the laws governing this rigit, now in force
or that may hereafter be enacted, and shall be in good standing
under said laws, the sum of $3000 will be paid by the Supreme
Lodge, etc., to Josephine R. Withers, wife, . . . upon due
notice and proof of death and good standing in the rank at the
time of his death, . . . and it is understood and agreed
that any violation of the within mentioned conditions or other

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. WITHERS.
Opinion of the Court.

requirements of the laws in force governing this right shall render this certificate and all claims null and void, and the said
Supreme Lodge shall not be liable for the above sum or any
part thereof."
Withers was a member of Section 432, at Greensboro, Alabama, of which one Chadwick was secretary. By the laws
of the endowment rank Withers was roquired to pay $4.90
monthly in accordance with his age and the amount of his en,
dowment.
In January, 1894, defendant adopted and promulgated the
following general laws:
"SEC. 4. Monthly payments and dues of members holding
certificates of endowment shall be due and payable to the secretary of Section without notice, on the first day of each and
every month; and a failure to make such payment on or before
the 10th day of each month shall cause, from and after such
date, a forfeiture of the certificate of endowment and all right,
title and interest such member or his beneficiaries may have in
and to the same, and membership shall cease absolutely. In
case of such forfeiture, membership may be regained by making
application in the form prescribed for new applicants, the payment of required membership fee and surrender of the forfeited
certificate. If approved by the medical examiner-in-chief and
accepted by the Board of Control, a new certificate shall be
issued, and the rating shall hereafter be at the age of nearest
birthday to the date of the last application."
"SEC. 6. The secretary of the Section shall forward to the

Board of Control the monthly payments and dues collected
immediately after the 10th day of each and every month.
"If such payment and dues are not received by the Board of
Control on or before the last day of the same month the Section so failing to pay, and all members thereof, shall stand suspended from membership in the Endowment Rank; and their
certificates and all right, title and interest therein shall be forfeited. Notice of such suspension shall be forthwith mailed
by the Secretary of the Board of Control to the President and
Secretary of such Section.
"Provided, that the Section whose membership has forfeited

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

their endowment, and whose warrant has been suspended, shall
regain all right as a Section, and any surviving members thereof
(not less than five) shall regain full rights and privileges held
previous to such forfeiture, if within thirty days from suspension of warrant said Section shall pay to the Board of Control
the amount of all monthly payments, assessments and dues
accrued upon said members."
"Sic. 10. Sections of Endowment Ranks shall be responsible
and liable to the Board of Control for all moneys collected by
the secretary or other officers from the members for monthly
payments, assessments or dues not paid over to the Board
within the time and manner prescribed by law. Officers of
Sections are the agents of members, and shall in no wise be
considered as the agents of the representatives of the Board of
Control or of the Endowment Rank or of the Supreme Lodge."
For over twelve years Withers made his monthly payments
as required by law to the secretary of the Section, and the
money was regularly remitted to the Board of Control at Chicago. His last payment was made prior to October 10, 1895,
as required by section 4, for the dues of that month. As there
were a large number of members in the Section, and as their
dues were not all collected until the latter part of the month,
the secretary of the Section did not send the money to the
Board of Control until October 31, when he mailed to the secretary of that board a cheque covering all the amounts due by
all the members of the Section for that month. The letter did
not leave the post office until the next day, and was received
by the Board of Control November 4. No notice was ever
mailed by the Board of Control to Withers notifying him of
his suspension; but on November first, as required by section
six, the secretary of the Board of Colitrol mailed to Mr. Chadwick, the secretary of the Section at Greensboro, a notice of
the suspension of all members thereof, with an intimation that
the members of the Section might regain their rights under
certain conditions therein named. No notice was mailed to
the President of the Section. In view of the technical character of the defence, it is worthy of mention that the Board of
Cortrol did not strictly comply with its own regulation in this
particular.

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. WITHERS.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon receiving the remittance, and on November 4, the secretary of the Board of Control mailed the following postal
card to the secretary of the Section: "Office Board of Control,
Chicago, November 4, 1895. Received of Section No. 432 one
hundred and thirteen 30-100 dollars in' payment of monthly
payments and dues for October, 1895, on condition that all
members for whom above payment is made were living at date
of this receipt. H. B. Stolte, Secretary Board of Control."
The insured was suddenly taken ill and died of an attack of
cholera morbus on November 1, 1895. Proofs of death were
waived by the defendant, which, however, refused to pay the
amount of the certificate.
It is hardly necessary to say that the defence in this case is
an extremely technical one, and does not commend itself to the
average sense of justice. It ought to be made out with literal
exactness. It is admitted that Withers for twelve years paid
all his dues promptly to the secretary of the Section as required
by section 4 of the general laws, and that the failure of the
Board of Control to receive them on or before the last day of
the month was the fault of the secretary, and not of the insured. The whole defence rests upon the final clause of section 10, declaring that "officers of Sections are the agents of the
members and shall in nowise be considered as the agents of the
representatives of the Board of Control of the endowment rank
or of the Supreme Lodge." It appears to have been the habit
of the secretary, Mr. Chadwick, not to remit each payment as
it -was made, but to allow all the dues of each month to collect
in his hands and to remit them together by a cheque covering
the whole amount, about the close of the month. In this connection he makes the following statement: "It had never been
the custom of my office for me to send the money off by the
twentieth of the month," (although section 6 required him to
forward it immediately after the. tenth.) "I usually sent the
money off about the last days of the month. For the previous
year I had mailed to the secretary of the Board of Control the
dues of the Section as follbws : October 27, 1894, November 28,
1894, December 29, 1894, January 29, 1895, February 27, 1895,
March 30, 1895, April 29, 1895, June 29, 1895, July 8, 1895,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

August 29, 1895, September 28, 1895, October 28, 1895, Qctober 31, 1895--all of which sums were accepted by the Board of
Control."
The position now taken by the defendant, that in receiving
the money from the insured members, and remitting the same
to the Board of Control, the secretary of the Section was the
agent of the insured and not of the Board of Control, is inconsistent with the requirement of section 4, which makes it obligatory upon policyholders to pay their monthly dues to the
secretary of the Section, and to him only, as well as with the
provision of section 10, that "Sections of endowment rank shall
be responsible and liable to the Board of Control for all moneys
collected by the secretary, or other officers, from the members
for monthly payments, assessments or dues not paid over to the
board within the time and, manner prescribed by law." The
question at once suggests itself to whom does the money belong
when paid to the secretary of the Section? If to the insured,
it was within his power to reclaim it at any time before it was
remitted. If to the Board of Control, it was the duty of the
secretary of the Section to remit it. Why, too, should the
Board of Control attempt to deal with it at all beyond requiring it to be paid them'by a certain day ? Section 10 is a complete answer, since that makes the Sections responsible to the
Board of Control from the moment the money is collected, and
section 6 makes it the duty of the secretary to remit it at once.
There seems to have been an attempt on the part of the defendant to invest Mr. Chadwick with the power and authority
of an agent, and at the same time to repudiate his agency.
But the refusal to acknowledge him as agent does not make
him the less so, if the principal assume to control his conduct. It is as if a creditor should ii]struct his debtor to pay
his claim to a third person, and at the same time declare that
such third person was not his agent to receive the money.
It would scarcely be contended, however, that such payment
would not be a good discharge of the debt, though the third
person never accounted to the creditor; much less, that it
would not be a good payment as of a certain day, though the

KNIGHTS OF PYTH[AS v. WITHERS.
Opinion of the Court.

remittance, through the fault of the person receiving it, did
not reach the creditor until the following day.
The position of the secretary must be determined by his actual power and authority, and not by the name which. the defendant chooses to give him. To invest him with the duties
of an agent, and to deny his agency, is a mere juggling with
words. Defendant cannot thus play fast and loose with its
own subordinates. Upon its theory the policyholders had absolutely no protection. They were bound to make their monthly payments to the secretary of the Section, who was bound to

remit them to the Board of Control; but they could not compel him to remit, and were thus completely at his mercy. If
he chose to play into the hands of the company, it was possible
for him, by delaying his remittance until after the end of the
month, to cause a suspension of every certificate within his
jurisdiction; and in case such remittance was not made within
thirty days from such suspension (sec. 6) apparently to make
it necessary under section 4 for each policyholder to regain his
membership by making a new application, surrendering his
forfeited certificate, making payment of the required membership fee, undergoing a new medical examination, and paying
a pretnium determined by his age at the date of the last application. In other words, by tle failure of the secretary, over
whom he had no control, to remit within thirty days every
member of the Section might lose his rights under his certificate and stand in the position of one making a new application,
with a forfeiture of all premiums previously paid. The new
certificate would, of course, be refused if his health in the
meantime had deteriorated, and the examining physician refused to approve his application. This would enable the company at its will to relieve itself of the burdens of undesirable
risks by refusing certificates of membership to all whose health
had become impaired since the original certificate was taken
out, though such certificate-holder may have been personally
prompt in making his monthly payments.
It could not thus clothe the secretaries of the Sections with the
powers of agents by authorizing them to receive monthly payments and instructing them to account for and remit them to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the Supreme Lodge at Chicago, and in the same breath deny
that they were agents at all. The very definition of an agent,
given by Bouvier, as "one who undertakes to transact some
business, or manage some affair, for another, by the authority
and on account of the latter, and to render an account of it,"
presupposes that the acts done by the agent shall be done in the
interest of the principal, and that he shall receive his instructions
from him. In this case the agent received his instructions from
the Supreme Lodge, and his actions were, at least, as much for
the convenience of the Lodge as for that of the insured. If the
Supreme Lodge intrusted Chadwick with a certain authority, it
stands in no position to deny that he was its agent within the
scope of that authority.
The reports are by no means barren of cases turning upon the
proper construction of this so-called "agency clause," under
which the defendant seeks to shift its responsibility upon the
insured for the neglect of Chadwick to remit on the proper day.
In some jurisdictions it is held to be practically void and of no
effect; in others, it is looked upon as a species of wild animal,
lying in wait and ready to spring upon the unwary policyholder,
and in all, it is eyed with suspicion and construed with great
strictness. We think'it should not be given effect when manifestly contrary to the facts of the case, or opposed to the interests of justice. Wherever the agency clause is inconsistent with
the other clauses of the policy, conferring power and authority
upon the agent, he is treated as the agent of the company rather
than of the policyholder. The object of the clause in most cases
is to transfer the responsibility for his acts from the party to
whom it properly belongs, to one who generally has no knowledge of its existence. It is usually introduced into policies in
connection with the application, and for the purpose of making
the agent of. the company the agent of the party making the
application, with respect to the statements therein contained.
It was formerly held in New York in RoArbach v. Germania
Fire A8. Co., 62 N. Y. 47, and Alexander v. Germania Fire
148.

Co., 66 N. Y. 464, that, where the insured had contracted

that the person who had procured the insurance should be
deemed his agent, he must abide by his agr6ement; and where

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. WITHERS.
Opinion of the Court.

such person had, through fault or mistake, misstated in the application to the company the declarations of the assured, the
latter must suffer for the error or wrong; but in a subsequent
case, Whited v. Germania Fire Ins. Co., 76 N. Y. 415, this
doctrine was held to be limited to such Acts as the agent performed in connection with the original application, and that in
a renewal of the policy such party was treated as the agent of
the defendant, for whose acts it was bound; and that it was
within his power to make a valid waiver of the conditions of the
policy. Said the court in its opinion : "That he was the agent
of the defendant itwould be fatuous to deny; were it not for a
clause in the policy" (the agency clause) "upon which the defendant builds. . . . But if the insured is to be now bound
as having thus contracted, there must be mutuality in the contract. No man can serve two masters. If the procurer of the
insurance is to be deemed the agent of the insured . . . he
may not be taken into the service of the insurer as its agent also;
or if he is so taken, the insurer must be bound by his acts and
words, when he stands in its place and moves and speaks as one
having authority from it; and _pro hac vuie, at least, he does then
rightfully put off his agency for the insured and put on that for
the insurer.
'Nor will it hold the plaintiff so strictly to
the contract he made as to permit the defendant to ignore it

and take his agent as its agent, and yet make him suffer for all
the shortcomings of that person while acting between them and

while under authority from the defendant to act for it."

So in

Sprague v. Holland PurchaseIns. Co., 69 Nt. Y. 128, the insured

signed a blank form of application, which was filled up by the
company's agent without any knowledge or dictation of the insured. There were false statements therein, occasioned by the
mistake or inadvertence of the agent. The policy contained the
ogency clause, as well as the condition that the application must
be made out by the defendant's authorized agent, and it was
held, using the language of the court in the Whited case, that
the latter clause "swallo w ed down" the former, and that there
was no warranty binding upon the plaintiff.
In Patridgev. Commercial Fire Ins. Co., 17 Hun, 95, it was

saidJ of the agency clause; "This is a provision which desrvos

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the condemnation of courts, whenever it is relied upon to work
out a fraud, as it is in this case. The policy might as well say
that the president of the company should be deemed the agent
of the assured.

.

.

.

Such a clause is no part of a contract.

It is an attempt to reverse the law of agency, and to declare
that a party is not bound by his agent's acts. Whether one is
an agent of another is a question of mixed law and fact, depending on the authority given expressly or impliedly. When a contract is in fact, made through the agent of a party, the acts of
that agent in that respect are binding on his principal."
In .Xassauerv. Susquehanna Rns. Co., 109 Penn. St. 507, 509,

under a by-law providing that "in all cases the person forwarding applications shall be deemed the agent of the applicant," it
was held, under the circumstances of the case, that the agent
of the company soliciting insurance was not the agent of the
applicant, and that such by-law was not binding upon him.
Although the insured is supposed to know at his peril the conditions of the policy, that will not bind him to a provision which
is not true, and one which the company had no right to insert
therein. "We do not assent," said the court, "to the proposition
that the offer" (that the agent made his own valuation of the
property) "was incompetent, because Laubach was the agent of
the assured in filling up the application and forwarding it to the
company. He was not the agent of the assured. The latter
had not employed him for any purpose. He was the agent of
the defendant company, and as such called upon the assured
and solicited a policy, and having obtained his consent, proceeded to fill up the application for him to sign. As to all these
preliminary matters the person soliciting the insurance is the
agent of the company." The court, speaking of the agency
clause, observed: "This court, in the dase above cited, Coluimbia
Ins. Co. v. Cooper, 50 Penn. St. 331, characterized a somewhat
similar provision as a 'cunning condition.' The court might
have gone further and designated it as a dishonest condition.
It was the assertion of a falsehood, and an attempt to put that
falsehood into the mouth of the assured. It formed no part of
the contract of insurance. That contract consists of the application and the policy issued in pursuance thereof. In point of

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. WITHERS.
Opinion of the Court.

fact the assured does not see the policy until after it is executed
and delivered to hin. In many instances it is laid away by him
and never read, especially as to the elaborate conditions in fine
print. Grant that it is his duty to read it, his neglect to do so
can bind him only for what the company had a right to insert
therein. He was not bound to suppose that the company would
falsely assert, either by direct language in the policy or by
reference to a by-law, that a man was his agent who had never
been his agent, but who was on the contrary the agent of the
company. Notwithstanding this was a mutual company, the
assured did not become a member thereof until after the insurance was effected. Hence a by-law of the company of which
he had no knowledge, and by which he was bound, could'not
affect him in matters occurring before the granting of the policy.
And even a by-law of a mutual company which declares that
black is white. does not necessarily make it so." Similar cases
are those of Eilenberger v. Protective Ins. Co., 89 Penn. St.
461; Susquehanna &c., as. Co. v. Cusick, 109 Penn. St. 157;
and Kier v. Lebanon Ins. Co., 128 Penn. St. 553.
The case of Lyeon.ing &c.,1s. Co. v. Ward, 90 Illinois, 545,
resembles the case under consideration. In that case it was
held that, where the assured contracts with one as the agent of
the insurer, believing him to be such, and does not employ such
supposed agent to act for him in obtaining insurance, such person has no power to act for or bind the insured, though the
policy may provide that the person procuring the insurance shall
be deemed the agent of the insured, and not of the company.
Plaintiff paid the premium to the person with whom she contracted for the insurance, and of whom she obtained the policy.
It was held that such person, assuming to be the agent of the
company, the payment was binding upon the company, whether
he paid the money over or not. In that case the person to
whom the money was paid was not in reality an agent of the
company, although plaintiff believed him to be such, but only a
street insurance broker, who represented himself to be the agent
of the company. Said the court: " Under such circumstances
who should bear the loss arising from the fraud committed by
the street broker.? Should it fall upon the plaintiff, who was

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

an innocent party in the transaction, or should it fall upon the
company, who alone enabled Puschman to successfully consummate the contract of insurance by placing in his hands the policy
for delivery? The street broker was not the agent of the plaintiff for any purpose. If the evidence be true, he had no authority to act for her or bind -her in any manner whatever by what
he might do in the premises, and while he may not have been,
in fact, the agent of the company, still the company, hy placing
the policy in the hands of the street broker for delivery, is
estopped from claiming that the payment made to him upon
delivery of the policy is not binding upon the company."
In Indiana it is also held that a recital in the policy that the
broker obtaining an insurance is the agent of the insured is not
conclusive upon that subject. IndianaIs. Co. v. Iartwell,100
Indiana, 566. In North British &c., Ins. Co. v. Crutchftd,
108 Indiana, 518, the agency clause was held to be absolutely
void as applied to a local agent, upon whose counter signature
the validity of the policy, by its terms, was made to depend.
In Boetcher v. IHawkeye Ins. Co., 47 Iowa, 253, it was held
that, if the assured had the right to believe the soliciting agent
was the agent of the company, the insertion of a clause in the
policy providing that he was the agent of the assured constituted
a fraud upon the latter, of which the company could not take
advantage.
Speaking of the agency clause in Continental Ins. Co. v.
Pearce, 39 Kansas, 396, 401, it is said: "This is but a form of
words to attempt to create on paper an agency, which in fact
never existed. It is an attempt of the company, not to restrict
the powers of its own agent, but an effort to do away with that
relation altogether by mere words, and to make him in the same
manner the agent of the assured, when, in fact, such relation
never existed. We do not believe the entire nature and order
of this well established relation can be so completely subverted
by this ingenious device of words. The real fact, as it existed,
cannot be hidden in this manner; much less pan it be destroyed
and something that did not in reality exist be placed in its stead.
The substance is superior to the mere drapery of words with
which one party wishes to bring into existence and clothe an

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. WITHERS.
Opinion of the Court.

unreal authority." See also.IKausal v. Minnesota &c., Jns. Asso.,
31 Minnesota, 17, in which the act of an insurance agent in making out an incorrect application was held chargeable to the insurer, and not to the insured, notwithstanding the insertion of
an agency clause in the policy.
In Planters' &c., Ins. Co. v. Myers, 515 Mississippi, 479, 498,
506, an agency clause in a policy of insurance was held to be
void, as involving a legal contradiction. The applicant made
truthful answers to certain interrogatories propounded by the
agent, who stated certain things that were not true. They were
held not to be binding upon. the insured. Speaking of the
agency clause, it is said: "The verbiage of this condition is not
candid; it seems to have been used with studied design to obscure the real purpose. It is a snare, set in an obscure place,
well calculated to escape notice. It is not written or printed on
the face of the policy. It is not so much as alluded to in the
application; nor is the agent in his printed instructions enjoined
to inform those with whom he treats of it. . . . Its inevitable effect is to greatly weaken the indemnity on which the
assured relied. It is inconsistent with the-acts and conduct of
the insurance companies in sending abroad all over the land
their agents and representatives to canvass for risks. It is an
effort by covenant to get the benefits and profits which these
agents bring them, and at the same time repudiate the relation
they sustain to them; and to set up that relationship with the
assured, and that, too, without their knowledge and consent.
It is not a limitation or restriction of power, but the dissolution
of the relationship with themselves and the establishment of it
between other parties."
The case of Schun k v. Gegenseitiger Wittwen und Igaisen
Fond, 44 Wisconsin, 369, is almost precisely like the instant
case. The constitution of the defendant corporation, whose governing body or directory was elected by the several "groves,"
(corresponding to the sections in this case,) of the United Ancient Order of Druids, declared that every member whose assessment was not paid by his grove to the directory within thirty
days after demand made, forfeited his claim to have a certain
sum in the nature of life insurance paid to his widow, or heirs,
VOL. CLXXVII-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

after his death. It was held that, in view of all the provisions
of such constitution, the benevolent object of the corporation,
and the fact that the several groves are, at least, as much its
agents to collect and pay over the dues of their members, as
they are agents of the latter, in case of a member whose dues
have been fully paid to his grove at the time of his death, the
amount of insurance might be recovered, notwithstanding a
default of the grove in paying over such dues to the defendant.
The agency clause was also once before this court in the case
of Grace v. American Central hIs. Co., 109 U. S. 278, in which
a clause in the policy that the person procuring the insurance to
be taken should be deemed the agent of the assured and not of
the company, was held to import nothing more than that the
person obtaining the insurance was to be deemed the agent of
the insured in the matters immediately connected with the procurement of the policy, and that where his employment did not
extend beyond the procurement of the insurance, his agency
ceased upon the execution of the policy, and subsequent notice
to him of its termination by the company was not notice to the
insured.
In the following cases the officers of the subordinate lodge,
or conclave, were treated as the agents of the Supreme Conclave
in the matter of granting extensions of time for the payment of
assessments: Whiteside v. Supreme Conclave, 82 Fed. Rep. 275;
Icnights of Pythias v. Bridges, 39 S. W. Rep. (Tex.) 333.
In the case under consideration it may be immaterial, except
as bearing upon the equities of the case, that the agency clause
was introduced into the general laws of the order in January,
1894, eleven years after the first certificate was issued to the
assured, and nearly nine years after the certificate was issued
upon which suit was brought. There is no evidence that it was
ever called to Withers' attention, or that he had actual knowledge of it. If he Were bound at all, it could only be by the
stipulation in his original application, and by the terms of his
certificate that "he would be bound by the rules and regulations of the order, now in force or that may hereafter be enacted." All that is required of him is a full compliance with
such laws, and there is not the slightest evidence that he failed

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. WITHERS.
Opinion of the Court.

personally in any particular to comply with any laws of the
order, present or future. The only failure was that of the secretary of the Section, who, to say the least, was as much the
agent of the order as he was of Withers, although the latter
is sought to be charged with his dereliction by a clause inserted
in the general laws, long after the certificate was issued. The
decisive consideration is this: Chadwick was the agent of the
defendant, and of the defendant only, after the receipt of the
money from Withers. Under section 10 he then became responsible for it to the Board of Control. In rendering his
monthly accounts and paying over the money he acted solely
for the defeyidant. From the time he paid the money to Chadwick the insured had no control over him, and was not interested in its disposition. Unless we are to hold the insured
responsible for a default of this agent, which he could not possibly prevent, we are bound to say that his payment to this
agent discharged his full obligation to the defendant. That it
should have the power of declaring that the default of Chadwick, by so much as one day, (and it did not exceed four days
in this case,) to pay over this money, should cause a forfeiture
of every certificate within his jurisdiction, is a practical injustice
too gross to be tolerated.
Without indorsing everything that is said in the cases above
cited, we should be running counter to an overwhelming weight
of authority, were we to hold that the agency clause should be
given full effect regardless of other clauses in the certificate or
the by-laws, indicative of an intention to make the officers of
subordinate lodges agents of the supreme or central authority.
We should rather seek to avoid as far as possible any injustice
arising from a too literal interpretation, and only give the clause
such effect as is consistent with the other by-laws and with the
manifest equities of the case. We are, therefore, of opinion
that in this case the secretary of the Section was in reality the
agent of the Supreme Lodge from the time he received the
monthly payments, and that the insured was not responsible
for his failure to remit immediately after the tenth of the
month.
We have not overlooked in this connection the case of Cam2 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

bell v. Knights of Pythias, 168 Mass. 397, in which a different
conclusion was reached upon a similar state of facts. In that
case plaintiff put his right to recover upon the theory that the
mailing of the remittance was a compliance with the requirement of section six that such payments and dues should be received on or before the last day of the month. This position
was held by the court to be untenable. It was said that the
money must have been actually received at the office of the
Board of Control before the end of the month. The question of
agency was not considered, and the trend of the argument is so
different that the case cannot be considered an authority upon
the propositions here discussed. The cases of Peet v. Ifnight8
of Maccabees, 83 Michigan, 92, and 3eClure v. Supreme Lodge,
59 N. Y. Sup. 764, are not in point.
The judgments of the Circuit Court and of the Court of Appeals were right, and they are therefore
Afirmed.

ARNOLD v. HATCH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 183.

Argued March 14, 1900. -Decided

April 9, 1900.

A farmer made an arrangement with his son under which it was agreed
that the latter should undertake the management of the farm, farm
implements and live stock, make all repairs, -pay all taxes and other
expenses, sell the products of the farm, replace all implements as they
wore out, keep up all live stock, and have as his own the net profits. It
was further agreed that each party should be at liberty to terminate the
arrangement at any time, and that the son should return to his father the
farm with its implements, stock and other personalty, of the same kind
and amount as was on the farm when the father retired, and as in good
condition as when he took it. Held, that no sale of the farm property
was intended; that the title to the same remained in the father, and that
the property was not subject to execution by creditors of the son.
THIS was an intervening petition

by the defendant in error,

