L'HOTE v. NEW ORLEANS.
Syllabus.

with that power used only in dummy engines, and, at the time
of the accident involved in this case, by electricity. It is true
that there is testimony that at or near the place where the accident happened parties' thought the operation of the street
railroad was more dangerous than the operation of the railroad
of which the plaintiff in error was receiver, but the validity of
such an ordinance is not determinable by individual judgments.
It is not a question to be settled by the opinions of witnesses

and the verdict of a jury upon the question whether one railroad in its operation is more dangerous than another. All that
is necessary to uphold the ordinance is that there is a difference,
and that existing it is for the city council to determine whether
separate regulations shall be applied to the two. It is notstrange
that one witness differs from another in respect to the corn parative danger of the two roads. One jury might also disagree
with another in respect to the same matter. 'But neither witness nor jury determine the validity of state or municipal legislation. Given the fact of a difference it is a part of the legislative power to determine what difference there shall be in the
prescribed regulations. We see nothing else in this case calling
for notice, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas is
Affirmed.

L'IIOTE v. NEW ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 204. Argued March 20, 1900.

Decided May 14, 1900.

The ordinance of the city of New Orleans set forth at length below in the
statement of the case, prescribing limits in that city outside of which no
woman of lewd character shall dwell, does not operate to deprive persons owning or occupying property in or-adjacent to the prescribed limits, whether occupied as a residence or for other purposes, of any rights
secured by the Constitution of the United States, and they cannot prevent its enforcement on the ground that by it their rights under the Federal Constitution are invaded.
Until there is some invasion of Congressional power or of private rights

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
secured by the Constitution of the United States, the iction of a State in
such respect is beyond question in the Federal courts.
The settled rule of this court is that the mere fact of pecuniary injury does
not warrant the overthrow of legislation of a police character.

By ordinance No. 13,032, council series, approved January 29,
1897, it was ordained by the Common Council of the city of
New Orleans:
"That from the first of October, 1897, it shall be
unlawful
for any public prostitute or woman notoriously abandoned to
lewdness to occupy, inhabit, live or sleep in any house, room
or closet situated without the following limits: South side of
Custom House street from Basin to Robertson street, east side
of Robertson street from Custom House to St. Louis street,
south side of St. Louis street from Robertson to Basin street.
Provided, That no lewd woman shall be permitted to occupy a
house, room or closet on St. Louis street. Provided further,
That nothing herein shall be so construed as to authorize any
lewd woman to occupy a house, room or closet in any portion
of the city. § 2. That it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons, whether agent or owner, to rent, lease or hire any house,
building or room to any woman or girl notoriously abandoned
to lewdness or for imnioral purposes outside the limits specified
in section 1 of this ordinance. § 3. That public prostitutes or
notoriously lewd and abandoned women are forbidden to stand
upon the sidewalks in front of or near the premises they may
occupy, or at the alleyway, door or gate of such premises, or to
occupy the steps thereof, or to accost, call or stop any person
passing by, or to walk up and down the sidewalks, or to stroll
about the city streets indecently attired, or in other respects so
to behave in public as to occasion scandal, or disturb and
offend the peace and good morals of the people. § 4. That it
shall not be lawful for any lewd women to frequent any cabaret or coffee house or bar room and to drink therein. § 5. That
it shall be unlawful for any party or parties to establish or
carry on a house of prostitution or assignation without the
limits specified in section - of this ordinance. § 6. That wherever a house of prostitution or assignation within or without
the limits established by this ordinance may become dangerous

L'HOTE v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the Case.

to public morals, either from the manner in which it is conducted or the character of the neighborhood in which it is situated, the mayor may, on such facts coming to his knowledge,
order the occupants of such house, building or room to remove
therefrom within a delay of five days, by service of notice on
such occupants in person, or by posting the notice on the door
of the house, building or room, to remove therefrom within a
delay of five days, and upon such occupants failing to do so,
each shall be punished as provided in section - of this ordinance. § 7. That in the event that the occupants of such house,
building or room referred to in section 6 do not remove therefrom after the infliction of the penalty, the mayor is authorized
to close the same and to place a policeman at the door of such
premises to warn away all such parties who shall undertake to
enter. § 8. That any person or persons who" shall violate the
provisions of this ordinance, or who shall disturb the tranquillity of the neighborhood or commit a breach of the peace, shall
be punished by the recorder having jurisdiction, for the first
offence by a fine not exceeding $5.00, and in default of payment
by imprisonment not exceeding ten days, for the second ofence by a fine not exceeding" $RI0.00, and in default of payment
by imprisonment not exceeding twenty days, and for any subsequent offence by a fine not exceeding $25.00, and in default of
payment by imprisonment not exceeding thirty days. § 9. That
each day any person or persons shall continue to violate the
provisions of this ordinance shall constitute a separate offence.
§ 0. That on and from the day this ordinance takes effect all
ordinances in conflict therewith be and the same are hereby
repealed, provided that nothing herein contained shall affect
ordinance 12,456, C. S., relative to prostitutes in the fifth district."
By ordinance No. 13,485, council series of the city of New
Orleans, approved July 7, 1897, it was ordained: "That section 1, of ordinance 13,032, C. S., be and the same is hereby
amended as follows from and after the 1st of October, 1897, it
shall be unlawful for any public prostitute or woman notoriously abandoned to lewdness to occupy, inhabit, live or sleep in
any house, room or closet situate without the following limits,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

viz.: 1. From the south side of Custom House street to the
north side of St. Louis street, and from the lower or wood side
of INorth Basin street to the lower or wood side of Robertson
street. 2. And from the upper side of Perdido street to the
lower side of Gravier street, and from the river side of Franklin street to the lower or wood side of Locust street, provided
that nothing herein shall be so construed as to authorize any
lewd woman to occupy a house, room or closet in any portion
of the city. Be it further ordained, That section 1, of ordinance 13,032, C.S., as amended above, be and the same is hereby
regnacted."
The above ordinance being in force, the plaintiff in error
George L'Hote, .aresident, citizen and taxpayer of New Orleans,
brought this action in the Civil District Court for the parish of
Orleans against the city of New Orleans, its mayor and superintendent of police, on behalf of himself and all other persons
similarly situated who might intervene and bear their proportion of costs and expenses. The object of the suit was to obtain
a decree enjoining and prohibiting the defendants from in any
manner enforcing ordinance No. 13,032 as amended by section 1
of ordinance No. 13,485.
The bill alleged that the plaintiff was the
owner of property
situated in the square bounded by St. Louis, Franklin, Treine
and Toulouse streets in the second district
of the city of -New
Orleans, and resided with his wife and children in that square
at No. 522 Treme street; that the chief and principal way of
approach to his residence, and for ingress and egress thereto,
was in,through and from St. Louis street; that the locality in
which he resided was at the commencement of the action and
had always been used for private residences, schools, groceries
and other mercantile establishments ;'that the people residing.
in that locality were then and had always been moral, virtuous,
sober, law abiding and peaceable; that the locality referred to
was not then and never had been dedicated to immoral purposes
or used for dwelling places and as the refuge of public prostitutes, lewd and abandoned women and the necessary attendants
thereof, drunkards, idle, vicious and disorderly persons, who
gather around them to gratify their depraved appetites and

L'HOTE v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the Case.

who were regarded as dangerous to the peace and welfare of
the community, their presence at any place being always a just
cause of alarm and apprehension;
That the above ordinances were unconstitutional, illegal, unreasonable and oppressive, and would if executed work irreparable injury, wrong and damage to the plaintiff;
That the council in enacting those ordinances pretended to
have acted under and by virtue of the power conferred upon
them in section 15 of act No. 45, approved July 7, 1896, "to
regulate the police of houses of prostitution and assignation
and to close such houses in certain limits,.and shall have the
power to ex6lude the same, and to authorize the mayor and
police to close said places;" and
That the enforcement of those ordinances in the manner provided for violated the provisions both of the Constitution of
the United States and of the State, and would deprive the
plaintiff of his property without due process of law, and amount
to a taking ordamaging of such property for public purposes
without just and adequate compensation being first paid.
The bill further alleged that "the introduction of public prostitutes, women notoriously abandoned to lewdness, in said locality, authorizing them to occupy, inhabit, live and sleep in houses
and rooms situated therein, will materially lessen and depreciate the value of your petitioner's property, render his dwelling
and the dwelling of his neighbors similarly situated unfit for
the occupancy of private families, destroy the morals, peace and
good order of the neighborhood, drive out and turn away the
law abiding, virtuous citizens and their families from said locality, and dedicate the same to public and private nuisances per
se, contrary to law and good morals;"
That "the common council of the city of New Orleans had
previously designated the limits within which prostitutes and
women notoriously abandoned to lewdness should inhabit and
live, and had thereby exhausted whatever power was vested in
them by legislature of the State and were without legal right
to alter, change or modify the same to the injury, detriment
and damage of your petitioner and others residing in said locality, whiQh paid cou1plc€ have Wtempted to inchide. within said

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

limits; that, having so exhausted the authority conferred upon
them by the legislature, the said council was without power to
capriciously change the limits previously established by them;
that the avocations plied by public prostitutes and women notoriously abandoned to lewdness are contra bonos mores, and the
said common council of the city of New Orleans have no right,
power or authority to legalize the same and to permit such
persons to reside in the said vicinity in which your petitioner
and others dwell with their families ;"
That" there was no good and sufficient reason for the enactment of said ordinance or the changing of the limits previously
existing and established ;"
That "said council, in enacting said ordinance No. 13,485,
council series, eliminated and excluded a large area of the city
which had been previously dedicated to the occupancy of lewd
and abandoned women, to the detriment and injury of petitioner, by changing said limits so as to include St. Louis street
in his locality;"
That the execution of the ordinances would render plaintiff's
dwelling house and those of his neighbors unfit and unsuitable
for the occupancy of their families, wives and children, and
wholly valueless for the purposes for which they were constructed and had theretofore been used; and
That the plaintiff and others similarly situated would be compelled, if the ordinances were executed, to abandon and remove
from their dwellings at great trouble, expense and annoyance,
and that the enforcement of the ordinance would oppress, injure
and seriously danage and incommode the plaintiff and all others
similarly situated.
The plaintiff also averred that the ordinances if executed would
deprive him and others similarly situated of the equal protection of the laws and be in violation equally of the Constitution
and laws of the United States and of the State; that under the
laws and ordinances of the city as they existed, he and all others
similarly situated in the locality had the right to cause houses
of prostitution and assignation to be suppressed as nuisances
and the inmates arrested and forced to vacate and remove therefrom, and of that right the plaintiff had theretofore availed him-

L'HOTE v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the Case.

self; and that the ordinances if executed would legalize such
nuisance and take away the rights of citizens theretofore existing and vested in plaintiff and others residing in that locality.
After alleging that the enforcement of the ordinance would
work irreparable damage and injury to him in the depreciation
in value of his property, because it would cease to be a fit and
proper place for the dwelling house of himself, his wife and
children, and necessitate their abandonment of the same and
removal from the locality, he prayed that the ordinances might
be declared null and void.
The writ of injunction as prayed was directed to be issued.
The city of New Orleans, its Mayor and Superintendent of
Police, pleaded that the court was without jurisdiction rat one
mnateriae.

Bernardo Gonzales Carbajal intervened by petition, and after
alleging that he was the owner of certain improved property
within the limits prescribed by the above ordinances, reiterated
all the allegations of the petition of L'Hote so far as they related to his property, and averred that the enforcement of the
ordinances would work great and irreparable injury to him and
depreciate his property by rendering it unfit and unsuitable for
dwelling houses. He united in the prayer that the ordinances
be declared null and void.
. The Church Extension Society of the Methodist Episcopal
Church, a corporation chartered and organized under the laws
of Pennsylvania, also intervened, and alleged that it was the
owner of buildings and improvements within the above district
which were used and occupied for church purposes; that a religious congregation known as the Union Chapel of the Methodist Episcopal Church assembled and worshiped therein on each
andi every Sabbath and on Tuesday and Friday evenings, as
well as on other stated occasions that besides the religious
services conducted in that church Sunday school was organized and established which was attended by 170 children, who
received religious instruction and teaching, and that the membership of that congregation consisted of about 300 persons,
while those worshiping in the church numbered about six hundred persons.
VOL. CLxxvII-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The society reiterated all the allegations of the plaintiff's petition and alleged that if the ordinances were enforced the value
of its property would be destroyed and the same would be unfit
for the purposes for which it was erected and was now being
used, enjoyed and occupied; that the threats to enforce the
ordinances had already caused a portion of the congregation
attending the church to cease from attending therein; that encouraged by the action of the city council of New Orleans in
passing the ordinances a number of lewd and abandoned women
had already taken up their abode and habitation in the vicinity
of the church and were plying their vocation as prostitutes;
and that a number of houses were then in progress of erection
and construction which were intended to be used and kept as
brothels and houses of prostitution, and other places had been
leased and let for the -purpose of carrying on liquor saloons and
concert halls, for the purpose and with the intention of changing the hitherto respectable character of that neighborhood
into a resort for vice and the establishment of nuisances mala
inl 8e.

After averring that the above ordinances were in violation
of the Constitution of the United States and the constitution
and laws of Louisiana, and that the city council had no right
to destroy the value of the intervenor's property and render the
neighborhood in which the same was located the resort of lewd
and abandoned women, it united in the prayer of the plaintiff's
petition
that those ordinances be declared
null and void.
The exceptions filed by the defendants to the petitions of the
plaintiff and the intervenors having been overruled, the city of
New Orleans and its Chief of Police filed an answer averring
that the ordinances in question were legal and that their enforcement would be a lawful exercise of the power conferred upon
the city, and especially a valid exercise of the power conferred
upon it by act No. 45 of 1896.
The Civil District Court rendered judgment in favor of the
plaintiff, but in favor of the city against the intervenors. From
that judgment suspensive appeals were allowed and prosecuted
by the city as well as by the Church Extension Society.
By the final judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana the

L'HOTE v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment of the Civil District Court in favor of the plaintiff was
reversed, and the injunction obtained by him was dissolved and,
his suit dismissed, while the judgment dismissing the intervening
petitions and dissolving the injunction granted on behalf of the
intervenors was affirmed. 51 La. Ann. 93.
X21fr. E. Howard MeCaleb for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. James J. Afe-oughlin for defendant in error. ill. Samuel L. Qilmore and Xr. Branch K. Miller were on his brief.
MR. JUsTIbE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The question presented in this case is whether an ordinance
of the city of New Orleans prescribing limits in that city, outside of which no woman of lewd character shall'dwell, operates
to deprive these plaintiffs in error of any right secured by the
Constitution of the United States. It is well, in the first place,
to look at the negative side and see what is not involved. No
woman of that character is challenging its validity ; there is no
complaint by her that she is deprived of any personal rights,
either as to the control of her life or the selection of an abiding
place. She is not saying that she is denied the right to select
a home where she may desire, or that her personal conduct is
in any way interfered with. In brief, the persons named in
the ordinance, and against whom its provisions are directed; do
not question its validity.
In the second place, no person owning buildings outside of
the prescribed limits is complaining that he is deprived of a possible tenant by virtue of the ordinance, or saying that the abridgment of her freedom of domicile operates to cut down the
amount of his rents.
In the third place, it will be perceived that the ordinance does
not attempt to give to persons of such character license to carry
on their businessin any way they see fit, or, indeed, to carry it
on at all, or to conduct themselves in such a manner as to disturb the public peace within the prescribed limits. Clauses 3

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and 4 of the first section of the ordinance are clearly designed
to restrain any public manifestation of the vocation vhich these
persons pursue and to keep so far as possible unseen from public gaze the character of their lives, while clauses 6, 7, 8 and 9
provide means for enforcing order and preventing disturbances
of the peace.
The question, therefore, is simply whether one who may own
or occupy property in or adjacent to the prescribed limits,
whether occupied as a residence or for other purposes, can prevent the enforcement of such an'ordinance on the ground that
by it his rights under the Federal Constitution are invaded.
In this respect we premise by saying that one of the difficult
social problems of the day is what shall be done in respect to
those vocations which minister to and feed upon human weaknesses, appetites and passions. The management of these vocations comes directly within the scope of what is known as the
police power. They affect directly the public health and morals. Their management becomes a matter of growing importance, especially in our larger cities, where from the very density of population the things which minister to vice tend to
increase and multiply. It has been often said that the police
power was not by the Federal Constitution transferred to the
nation, but was reserved to the States, and that upon them rests
the duty of so exercising it as to protect the public health and
morals. While, of course, that power cannot be exercised by
the States in any way to infringe upon the powers expressly
granted to Congress, yet until there is some invasion of Congressional power or of private rights secured by the Constitution of the United States, the action of the States in this respect
is beyond question in the courts of the nation. In Barbier v.
Con nolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31, it was said:
"But neither the amendment broad and comprehensive as
it is-nor any other amendment, was designed to interfere
with the power of the State, sometimes termed its police power,
to prescribe regulations to promote the health, peace, morals,
education and good order of the people."
See also Railroad Company v. Ilusen, 95 U. S. 465; Beer
Company v. ilfassachusetts, 97 U. S. 25 ; Pattersonv. Kentucky,

L'HOTE v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

97 U. S. 501; Fertilizing Company v. H"yde Park, 97 U. S.
659; Plunley v. Xassahausetts, 155 U. S. 461, and cases in the
opinion.
Obviously, the regulation of houses of ill fame, legislation in
respect to women of loose character, may involve one of three
possibilities: First, absolute prohibition; second, full.freedom
in respect to place, coupled with rules of conduct; or, third, a
restriction of the location of such houses to certain defined limits. Whatever course of conduct the legislature may adopt is
in a general way conclusive upon all courts, state and Federal.
It is no part of the judicial function to determine the wisdom
or folly of a' regulation by the legislative body in respect to
matters of a police nature.
Now, this ordinance neither prohibits absolutely nor gives
entire freedom tQ-the vocation of these women. It attempts to
confine their domicile, their lives, to certain territorial limits.
Upon what ground shall it be adjudged that such restriction is
unjustifiable; that it is an unwarranted exercise of the police
power?' Is the power to control and regulate limited only as to
the matter of territory? May that not be one of the wisest and
safest methods of dealing with the problem? At any rate, can
the power to so regulate be denied? But given the power to
limit the vocation of these persons to certain localities, and no
one can question the legality of the location. The power to
prescribe a limitation carries with it the power to discriminate
against one citizen and in favor of another. Some must suffer
by the establishment of any territorial boundaries. We do not
question what is so earnestly said by counsel for plaintiffs in
error in respect to the disagreeable results from the neighborhood of such houses and people; but if the power to prescribe
territorial limits exists, the courts cannot say that the limits
shall be other than those the legislative body prescribes. If
these limits hurt the present plaintiffs in error, other limits would
hurt others. But clearly the inquiry as to the reasonableness or
propriety of the limits is a matter for legislative consideration,
and cannot become the basis of judicial action. The ordinance
is an attempt to protect a part of the citizens from the unpleasant consequences of such neighbors. Because the legislative

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

body is unable to protect all, must it be denied the power to
protect any?
It is said that this operates to depreciate the pecuniary value
of the property belonging to the plaintiffs in error, but a similar
result would follow if other limits were prescribed, and therefore
the power to prescribe limits could never be exercised, because,
whatever the limits, it might operate to the pecuniary disadvantage of some property holders.
The truth is, that the exercise of the police power often works
pecuniary injury, but the settled rule of this court is that the
mere fact of pecuniary injury does not warrant the overthrow
of legislation of a police character.
Among the cases in which this question has been presented
may be noticed Fertilizing Company v. Hyde P~ark,sutpra, and
]ugler v. cTfansas, 123 U. S. 623. In the first of these cases an

act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois had authorized the fertilizing company to establish a plant for the purpose
of converting dead animals into an agricultural fertilizer. In
pursuance of this authority the company had built its factory
outside the then limits of the city of Chicago and in a territory
adjacent to which there was no population. As the years rolled
by population gathered around the factory, and the character
of the work carried on was such as to make it a nuisance to the
neighborhood. The village of Hyde Park, which bad grown
up around the works of the company, passed an ordinance to
suppress these works, and a bill was filed in the state court to
restrain the enforcement of that ordinance. The Supreme Court
of the State held the ordinance valid, and on error to this court
that judgment was affirmed. Although there was a charter
right to maintain these works, and although when established
they were located in a territory in which there was no population, yet when population had gathered around them the police
power of the State was held sufficient to stop their existence,
and that without compensation to the owner. The pecuniary
injury which directly resulted to the company from the stoppage
of its works was held no bar to the police power of the State.
In the other case Mugler had established a brewery in Kansas,
when such an institution was authorized by the laws of the

L'HOTE v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Couirt.

State. The buildings and machinery were of little value except
for the purpose .of manufacturing beer. Yet when Kansas, in
the exercise of its police power, determined that the manufacture of beer should cease, it was ,ruled by this court that the
pecuniary loss to Mugler did not justify any restraint of the
legislative acts prohibiting the manufacture of beer. Each individual holds his property subject to the ordinary and reasonable exercise of the police power, and the fact that its exercise
may in a particular case work pecuniary injury was adjudged
insufficient to stay the legislative action. It is true those cases
involved pecuniary injury to the persons whose action was prohibited, but it cannot be that the police p6wer of a State can be
stayed because it works injury to one person, and not stayed if
it works injury to another.
In 1 Dillon Mun. Corp. 4th ed. sec. 141, the rule is thus
stated:
"Laws and ordinances relating to the comfort, health, convenience, good order and general welfare of the inhabitants are
comprehensively styled 'Police Laws or Regulations.' It is
well settled that laws and regulations of this character, though
they may disturb the enjoyment of individual rights, are not
unconstitutional, though no provision is made for compensation
for such disturbances. They do not appropriate private property for public use, but simply regulate its use and enjoyment
by the owner. If he suffers injury, it is either dannum absque
injurict, or in the theory of the law, he is compensated for it
by sharing in the general benefits which the regulations are
intended and calculated to secure. The citizen owns his property absolutely, it is true; it cannot be taken from him for any
private use whatever, without his consent, nor can it be taken
for any public use without compensation; still he owns it subject to this restriction, namely, that it must be so used as not
unreasonably to injure others, and that the sovereign authority
may, by police regulations, so direct the use of it that it shall
not prove pernicious to his neighbors, or the citizens generally."
The learned author, in these and accompanying sentences, is
discussing the rule when legislative action operates directly
upon the property of the complainant and where injuries al-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

leged to result are the direct consequence of legislative action.
If under such circumstances the individual has no cause of
action, a fortiori must the same be true when the injuries are
not direct but consequential, when his property is not directly
touched by the legislative action but is affected in only an incidental and consequential way. Here the ordinance in no manner touched the property of the plaintiffs. It subjected that
property to no burden, it cast no duty or restraint upon it, and
only in an indirect way can it be said that its pecuniary value
was affected by this ordinance. Who can say in advance that
in proximity to their property any houses of the character indicated will be established, or that any persons of loose character will find near by a home? They may go to the other end
of the named district. All that can be said is that by narrowing the limits within which such houses and people must be,
the greater the probability of their near location. Even if any
such establishment should be located in proximity, there is
nothing in the ordinance to deny the o'rdinary right of the individual to restrain a private nuisance. Under these circumstances we are of the opinion that the ordinance in question is
not one of which the plaintiffs in error can complain. The
judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is therefore
Afirmed.

