OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. PURDY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 171.

Argued and submitted

rarch 6, 1902.-Decided April 7, 19&2.

Where a party, drawing in question in this court a state enactment as invalid
under the Constitution of the United States, or asserting that the final
judgment of the highest court of a State denied to him a right or immunity
under the Constitution of the United States, did not raise such question
or specially set up or claim such right or immunity in the trial court,
this court cannot review such final judgment and hold that the state judgment was unconstitutional, or that the right or immunity so claimed had
been denied by the highest court of the State, if that court did nothing
more than decline to pass upon the Federal question because not raised
in the trial court, as required by the state practice.
If, upon examining the record, this court had found that a Federal question
was properly raised, or that a Federal right or immunity was specially
claimed in the trial court, then the jurisdiction of this court would not
have been defeated by the mere failure of the highest court of the State
to dispose of the question so raised, or to pass upon the right or immunity so claimed.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.r. Adelbert .foot for plaintiff in error.
Xk. Cla'ence A. Farnum,for defendant in error submitted
on his brief.
MR.JUSTICE

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

Twenty-one actions were brought by Purdy against the Erie
Railroad Company, a corporation of New York, to recover penalties under what is known as the Mileage Book Act of that
State, being chapter 1027 of the Laws of 1895 which took effect
June 15, 1895, as amended by chapter 835 of the Laws of 1896
which took effect May 22, 1896.
The complaint and answer in each case were the same.
Each answer alleged "upon information and belief that the

ERIE RAILROAD CO. r. PURDY.
Opinion of the Court.

said act known as chapter 835 of the Laws of 1896, is unconstitutional and void, because it is in violation of the proyisions of the
Constitution of the United States which commits to Congress
the sole power to regulate commerce between the several States,
and that it is unconstitutional and void because it is in violation
of various other _provisions of the Constitution of the United
States and of the constitution of the State of NSew York."
This was the only reference, special or general, in the answers,
to the Constitution of the United States.
The twenty-one actions were consolidated into one action subject to the plaintiff's right to recover in each one as if they had
been separately tried.
At the conclusion of the evidence in behalf of the plaintiff
the railroad company moved for a non-suit in each action upon
various grounds, the only one that can be regarded as specially
setting up or claiming a Federal right or immunity being the
fifth, which stated that if the state legislation under which the
defendant sought to recover penalties was intended to apply to
the railway lines of defendant the acts of the legislature were
void, "because they undertake to interfere with or regulate commerce among the States and the acts of Congress in such case
made and provided."
It was not assigned as a ground of nonsuit that the statute
in question was in violation " of various other provisions" of the
Constitution of the United States. Apparently, that ground
of defence was abandoned at the trial.
The trial court granted the motion for nonsuit in the last
eleven cases, and directed a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for
$50 each in the first ten cases; and ordered that the exceptions
of each party be heard in the Appellate Division in the first instance, all proceedings in the meantime being stayed.
In the Appellate Division the exceptions of the railroad company were overruled and judgment was ordered for the plaintiff with costs, and that judgment was affirmed in the Court of
Appeals of New York. Purdy v. Erie R. R. Co., 162 N. Y.
42, 50, 51.
That court, speaking by Judge Cullen, said: "At the opening of the trial the defendant moved to dismiss the complaint

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

because it failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action for a.penalty. No particular ground for the attack on
the complaint is stated. At the close of the evidence, the defendant renewed its motion to dismiss the complaint, but the
sole ground on which it assailed the validity of the statute itself
was that it constituted an interference with the regulation of
interstate commerce, and hence was in violation of the Constitution of the United States. The objection that the statute
was an invasion of the defendant's property rights, and contravened, for that reason, either the Constitution of the United
States or the constitution of this State, does not anywhere appear in the record, and the rule seems settled that such an objection, to be available here, must have been raised in the courts
below. ' 7ose v. Cockcroft, 44 N. Y. 415; Delaney v. Brett, 51
N. Y. 78."
Again: "The objection that the statutes of 1895 and 1896
are regulations of interstate commerce, and hence, in conflict
with the Federal Constitution, is satisfactorily dealt with in the
very clear opinion of M[r. Justice Mlerwin, of the Appellate Division, delivered in the Beardsley case, 15 App. Div. 251. That
such a statute, if limited in its scope to transportation wholly
within the limits of the State, is a valid exercise of state authority is settled by the decision of the Supreme Court of the United
States in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 116 U. S.307,
where it was said : ' It (the State) may, beyond all question, by
the settled rule of decision in this court, regulate freights and
fares for business done exclusively within the State.' This doctrine has never been overruled or limited; on the contrary, it
is fully recognized in the later cases. Henninglon v. Georgia,
163 U. S. 299; IF. . Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S.650; 1. S.
& if. S. R. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S.285. In Wabash cfc. R'y Co.
v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557, a statute of Illinois regulating
fares was held void solely on the ground that the act, as interpreted by the Supreme Court of the State, included cases of
transportation partly within and partly without the State. It
was there stated: 'If the Illinois statute could be construed to
apply exclusively to contracts for a carriage which begins and
ends within the State, disconnected from a continuous transpor-

ERIE RAILROAD CO. v. PURDY.
Opinion of the Court.

tation through or into other States, there does not seem to be
any difficulty in holding it to be valid.' There is nothing in
the language of the statutes now before us that. shows they
were intended to affect any but interstate transportation; but
if their interpretation is doubtful ' the courts must so construe
a statute as to bring it within the constitutional limits, if it is
susceptible of such construction.' Sage v. City of Brooklyn, 89
N. Y. 189; People v. Terry, 108 iN. Y. 1. Within this principle
these statutes must be construed as applying to transportation
wholly within the State, and as so construed they do not infringe upon the Constitution of the United States."
In a petition for the allowance of a writ of error from this
court, the railroad company for the first time expressly referred
to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States as affording it protection against the statute of New
York. The same ground was repeated in the assignments of
error for this court.
We are asked to determine whether the'judgment of the
Court of Appeals of New York affirming the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State did not deny to the railroad company a right or immunity secured to it by that clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment declaring that no State shall deprive
any person of property without due process of law or deny to
any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the
laws.
This question cannot be determined by this court unless it has
jurisdiction to review such final judgment of the Court of Appeals of the State.
The statute defining the authority of this court to reexamine
the final judgment of the highest court of a State, gives it jurisdiction " w here is drawn in question the validity of a statute of,
or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of
their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of
the United States, and the decision is in favor of their validity;
or where any title, right, privilege or immunity is claimed under
the Constitution or any treaty or statute of, or commission held
or authority exercised under, the United States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege or immunity specially

OCTOBER TERML 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

set up or claimed by either party under such Constitution, treaty,
statute, commission or authority." Rev. Stat., ยง 709.
By its answer and its motion for a nonsuit at the close of the
plaintiff's evidence, the defendant did distinctly claim that the
statute of New York in question was inconsistent with the power
of Congress to regulate commerce among the several States. But
the Court of Appeals held that the statute was intended to apply
and applied only to domestic transportation. We accept this
view as to the scope and operation of the statute, and assume
that it does not require the railroad company to issue mileage
tickets covering the transportation of passengers from one State
to another State. So that no Federal question arising under
the commerce clause of the Constitution is here for determination.
But the defendant insists that the general allegation in each
of its answers, namely, that the statute, besides being void as a
regulation of interstate commerce, was in violation "of various
other provisions" of the Constitution of the United States, was
sufficient to have enabled him, at the trial, to insist that the
statute, upon which the actions were based, was repugnant to
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. If
the answer had contained no such specific allegation, still, if at
the trial of the case the defendant had, in stating the grounds
of his motion for nonsuit, or in some other way, distinctly
claimed that the statute, on which the actions were based, was
inconsistent with that Amendment, then it would have been the
duty of the Court of Appeals to determine the question so
raised, unless it was waived by the defendant when the case
was before that court, or unless its determination could properly
be and was placed upon some ground of local or general law
adequate to dispose of the case. We state the matter in this
way because, as said in Cavter.v. Texas, 177 if. S. 442, 447, "the
question whether a right or privilege, claimed under the Constitution or laws of the United States, was distinctly and sufficiently pleaded and brought to the notice of a state court, is
itself a Federal question, in the decision of which this court, on
writ of error, is not concluded by the view taken by the highest
court of the State.
Veal v. Deiaware,103 U. S. 370, 396, 397 ;

ERIE RAILROAD CO. v. PURDY.
Opinion of the Court.

XMitchell v. Clark, 110 U. S. 633, 645; Boyd v. Thayer, 143 U. S.
135, 180."
So, if the highest court of the State, by its final judgment,
sustains the validity of a state enactment drawn in question
there as repugnant to the Constitution, treaties or laws of tho
United States, or denies a right, privilege or immunity specially
set up or claimed in that court for the first time under the
Constitution or any treaty, statute or authority exercised under
the United States, this court could review that judgment, although no Federal question was distinctly raised or insisted
upon in the trial court.
In the present case the statute was not drawn in question in
the trial court as invalid under any clause of the Constitution
except the one relating to commerce. It was not even asserted
there to be invalid under "various other provisions" of that
instrument. The statements in the motion for nonsuit, that
"the cause of action alleged in such action has not been proved,"
and that "no cause of action has been proved in either of the
actions consolidated in the action on trial," were too vague
and general to indicate that the defendant claimed anything
under that Amendment. The record before us is consistent
with the idea that the defendant did not claim, in the trial
court, in any form, generally or specially, that the statute deprived it of its property without due process of law or denied
to it the equal protection of the laws.
We therefore cannot hold that the Court of Appeals, by its
final judgment, sustained the validity under the Constitution
of the United States of the statute drawn in question by the
defendant or that it denied any right or immunity now claimed
by it under the Fourteenth Amendment; for that court simply
declined to consider any Federal question except that made
under the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, assigning as the reason therefor that no point was made at the trial
in respect of any other clause of that instrument. In so holding, the court followed the settled rule of practice in that State.
On that practice alone was based its refusal to consider a Federal question not brought to the attention of the trial court.
]Vose v. Cockcroft, 44 N. Y. 415; Delaney v. Brett, 51 N. Y.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Now, where a party-drawing in question in this court a
state enactment as invalid under the Constitution of the United
States, or asserting that the final judgment of the highest court
of a State denied to him a right or immunity under the Constitution of the United States-did not raise such question or
specially set up or claim such right or immunity in the trial
court, this court cannot review such final judgment and hold
that the state enactment was unconstitutional or that the right
or immunity so claimed had been denied by the highest court
of the State, if that court did nothing more than decline to pass
upon the Federal question because not raised in the trial court
as required by the state practice. Spies v. Illinois,123 U. S.
131, 181; .Xiller v. Texas, 153 U. S. 535, 538; .Morrison v.
Watson, 154 U. S. 111, 115. Of course, if upon examining the
record this court had found that a Federal question was properly raised, or that a Federal right or immunity was specially
claimed, in the trial court, then our jurisdiction would not have
been defeated by the mere failure of the highest court of the
State to dispose of the question so raised or to pass upon the
right or immunity so claimed.
It results from what has been said that no Federal question
is sufficiently presented by the record for our determination;
consequently, the writ of error must be
-Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.in this court. it is so
ordered.
M . JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the argument or take part
in the decision of this case.

