OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

aoainst it, except subject to the harsh condition that if the jury
does not sustain the defence, the company must pay special
damages and special attorney's fees that are not exacted from
any other defendant, corporate or individual, who may be sued
for money.
This is such an arbitrary classification of corporations and
such a discrimination against life and health insurance coinpanies as brings the statute within the decision in the Ellis case,
which has been often referred to by this court with approval.
_3fagoun v. Illinois Trust and Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 294;
St. Louis, Iron _l-ountain &oc. l. R. Co. v. Paul, 173 U. S. 409;
fficol v. Aines, 173 U. S. 521 ; IF. IT. CargillCo. v. Xfinnesota,
above cited.
In my opinion, the statute in question comes within the constitutional prohibition of the denial by a State of the equal protection of the laws and should be held void.

NEW

ORLEANS

WATERWORIKS
LOUISIANA.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COUr OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 590.

Submitted March 10, 1902.-Decided May 5, 1902.

In order to warrant the exercise by this court of jurisdiction over the judgments of state courts, there must be some fair ground for asserting the
existence of a Federal question, and in the absence thereof a writ of error
will be dismissed, although the claim of a Federal question was plainly

set up; and where by the record it appears that such a claim, although
set up, had no substance or foundation, the fact that it was raised was
not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction.
That the State has power to forfeit the charter of a corporation for an abuse
of its privileges, is recognized as law in Louisiana.
In Louisiana a corporation is liable to be proceeded against for taking illegal rates by quo warranto at the suit of the State.
Upon a careful review of all the questions, the court is of opinion that no
Federal question exists in this record, and that the court is without jurisdiction in this case.

THIS is a proceeding in the nature of a quo warraido,brought
by the attorney general of the State of Louisiana, in the name

NEW ORLEANS WATERWORKS CO. v. LOUISIANA. 337
Statement of the Case.

of the State, to obtain a forfeiture of the charter of the defendant, the waterworks company. Upon the trial there was judgment in favor of the company, but upon appeal to the Supreme
Court of the State that judgment was reversed, and judgment
in favor of the State and against the company was entered, decreeing the forfeiture of the charter and of all the franchises
heretofore conferred upon the defendant. The company has
brought the case here by writ of error for review.
It appears from the petition filed in behalf of the State,
through its attorney general, that in June, 1898, the general
assembly of the State adopted a concurrent resolution providing for the appointment of a committee, with instructions to
investigate the complaints against the methods of operation of
the New Orleans Waterworks Company, and to report back to
the general assembly such action as it might deem necessary
to the public interests in the premises. The committee was
duly appointed, made the investigation, and having submitted
two reports thereon, the legislature on July 14, 1898, adopted
the following:
"Whereas, the majority and minority reports of the joint
committee of the house and senate, appointed to investigate
the affairs, administration and condition of the New Orleans
Waterworks Company, have been submitted to the general assembly, together with the testimony and evidence adduced at
the various sessions of the said committee; and
"Whereas, the subject-matter of the said reports involves the

consideration and the determination of intricate questions of
law and fact; and
"'Whereas, it is impossible, in view of the limited time at its
disposal, for the general assembly to give the matter the examination and consideration necessary for a proper determination
thereof;
".Be it, therefore, resolved by the senate, the house of Representatives concurring,That the whole subject-matter of the said

report, together with the testimony and evidence upon which
they are based, be respectfully referred to the attorney general of the State for such action in the premises as he may deem

proper."
VOL. CLxxxv-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

The attorney general after such reference commenced this
proceeding, and in the petition it was averred that the water
company had been duly incorporated by the state legislature,
an1d that after its incorporation it had been guilty of repeated
and continuous violations of the charter, and had thereby forfeited the same and its franchises, and the petition then set forth
twelve different causes of forfeiture which were alleged to have
been violations of its charter. It was alleged that the company
had failed to supply the inhabitants of the city with pure water;
that the supply was not only muddy and impure, but also wholly
inadequate, either to extinguish fires, to wash yards, alleys and
streets, or to furnish the inhabitants with water for bathing and
domestic purposes; that the water furnished was at no time fit
for drinking or cooking.
It was also averred that the company had habitually since
1878 to the time of filing the petition illegally exacted and collected greater rates than those exacted and collected by the city
of New Orleans for the same quantity of water when it was
the owner of the plant, and that the company had no right to
charge any greater rate than had then been charged by the city.
Various other grounds were stated in the petition not necessary
to be particularly noticed. The prayer of the petition was for
the forfeiture of the charter of the company and all its franchises, and, in the alternative, should that relief not be granted,
that then it might be decreed that the company had forfeited
all exclusive privileges, and that the city of New Orleans should
be adjudged to have the right to contract with any one else for
a supply of water and to expropriate the tangible property of
the company if the city should see fit, etc.
Exceptions were filed to this complaint, which were overruled
by the court, and the waterworks company then answered, denying the allegations of the petition. The city of New Orleans
then filed a petition for leave to intervene and to become a part*y
plaintiff in the proceeding. The board of liquidation of the city
also filed a petition to intervene and be made a party defendant
on the ground that it had an interest in common with the waterworks company to have the complaint against it dismissed.
The court allowed both petitions in intervention to be filed, and

NEW ORLEANS WATERWORKS CO. v. LOUISIANA. 339
Statement of the Case.

the State then answered the petition in intervention of the board
of liquidation, and the water company filed its answer to the
petition of the city of New Orleans.
The answer of the water company to the complaint on the
part of the State, after denying various allegations, averred that
the primary reason for the incorporation of the defendant was
neither to provide the city with a proper water supply nor to
obtain an enlargement of the existing waterworks, because for
more than forty years prior thereto the city had works adequate to furnish such a supply, with full power to enlarge the
works as occasion required. The answer also averred that in
1833 the Commercial Bank of New Orleans was incorporated
for the purpose of providing a waterworks plant and system
-for the city of New Orleans, and that it immediately complied
with the duty of providing the same, and had operated it for
many years; that the city, about the time of the incorporation
of the bank, had become an owner of five thousand shares of
the stock of the company, and had issued its bonds in payment
therefor at the time of the purchase. There was a provision in
the charter of the bank that the city might purchase the plant
in thirty-five years upon the conditions mentioned in the act.
It was further averred that the 6ity had become the owner of
the waterworks plant under this provision, in 1869, and that it
had operated the same up to and including the year 1878. At
that time the city was undei' great financial pressure and almost bankrupt, and had failed to pay most of the bonds it had
issued for the five thousand shares of stock it had owned in the
bank corporation, although such bonds were due, and also there
were the current obligations of the city to an amount of several
millions of dollars over due and unpaid. For the purpose of relieving the city it was averred that the legislature in 1877 passed
an act providing for a sale of the plant by the city under the
circumstances mentioned in the act, but for some reason subscribers enough were not found who would form a corporation
and take the plant upon the terms therein mentioned. Accordingly in 1878 the act was amended making the terms more liberal, and thereupon subscribers who were owners of the city
bonds and other obligations, came together and formed a cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

poration with a capital stock of two million dollars, divided
into twenty thousand shares of one hundred dollars each. In
accordance with the terms of the act these shares were assigned
to the city, and the city, in consideration thereof, sold and assigned to the company the entire waterworks plant of the city,
including the franchises and rights granted by the State and
sold with the balance of the property, rights and franchises so
offered for sale by the act of the legislature, amongst which
property thus sold was the valuable and indispensable franchise
to be a corporation, which, as averred, was a right not severable in law from the balance of the property. The city has
since sold all of the twenty thousand shares of the stock of the
company, excepting 3927 shares held by the board of liquidation in trust and as security for the extinguishment of the
debts of the city. The balance of the twenty thousand shares
is in other hands, whose title is traceable to the city. In order
to raise money to carry out its obligations, having received none
for the stock issued to the city for the property purchased, the
company has, pursuant to the permission granted it by the act
of 1877, twice mortgaged the property, including the franchise
to be a corporation, and the bonds secured by those mortgages
are in the hands of bona fide purchasers for value, and it is
claimed on the part of the defendant that they are indispensable parties to this or any action to destroy the franchise of the
defendant to be a corporation. The defendant also avers that
the State as plaintiff acts in bad faith in assailing the franchises
of the defendant in such an action, and also in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, which forbids a State to deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law, or to deny any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
It was also alleged that the grant of corporate life to the defendant was not, as is usually the case, a grant of corporate life
for the purpose, and consideration only of the establishment of
public works or improvements of a public character, where the
only consideration passing to the State for the grant of corporate life is some supposed increased general public benefit re-

NEW ORLEANS WATERWORKS CO. v. LOUISIANA. 341
Statement of the Case.

sulting from the construction and installation of public works;
but that, on the contrary, in the case of the defendant corporation, the contract and agreement between the State and the
defendant was, and is, an unquestionable contract of bargain
and sale of all the property, rights and franchises described in
the acts of 1877 and 1878, for an exact price fixed by the State
in its offer of the property for sale, which offer was accepted
and price paid by the defendant as the result of a bargaining in
which the State was acting, not alone in its character as a sovereign, but as a merchant and trader in commerce, and that in
the bargaining and sale of the said property and franchises the
State must, in law and by the courts, be considered a trader
engaged in driving a hard commercial bargain in its own interest and on its own terms, and for its own benefit and profit.
The contract thus set fortb, it was averred, was protected from
all impairment at the hands of the State, by the Constitution
of the United States, particularly by section 10 of article 1, acting on the State of Louisiana as a prohibition, while acting or
moving, as plaintiff in this action, in impairment of the faith of
its own contract, to the same extent as if such impairment had
been attempted through and by means of legislation compassing the same effect and result, that if the joint resolution of the
state legislature, referred to in the petition, could be construed
as directing the institution and prosecution of this suit, or as
directing the attorney general of the State, in the name of the
State, to institute and prosecute this action, for the purpose and
with the intent to segregate from the mass of the property sold
by the State to the defendant its franchise to be a corporation,
or if there exist any other statutes of the State authorizing or
directing the attorney general to that end and purpose, such
joint resolution and statutes are repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States, particularly to section 10 of article 1
thereof, which is specially pleaded in defence of this action.
The defendant also averred that by virtue of the provisions of
section 15 of the charter of defendant, (Act No. 33 of the Laws
of 1877,) the remedy for illegal charges for water was confined
to an application by the city for a mandamus to compel the

OCTOBER TERMA,

1901.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

company to desist from such charges. , The section is repro1
duced in the margin.

The answer further specifically denied all grounds of forfeiture
and prayed that the plaintiff's suit might be dismissed. The
case came to trial in the city of New Orleans, and after an investigation of the issues raised by the pleadings, including the
examination of a large number of witnesses and the hearing of
arguments of counsel, the court determined, (1) that the two
intervening parties, the city of New Orleans and the board of
liquidation, should not have been allowed to intervene, and accordingly it was decreed that the intervention of those parties
should be dismissed at the cost. of the respective intervenors.
(2) The court then ordered judgment in favor of the water company and against the plaintiff, the State of Louisiana, rejecting
its demand for the forfeiture of the defendant's charter. The
State appealed from that judgment to the Supreme Court, and
the city of New Orleans also took a separate appeal from the
judgment dismissing its intervention. Upon hearing in the Supreme Court the judgment in favor of the water company was
reversed, and, as already stated, a judgment was entered forfeiting the charter of the water company.
_. EcdgarH. Farrs,37r. Ernest B. K'uttschnitt,JMi'. B. F.
Jonasand _Mr. James R. Beckewith for the New Orleans Waterworks Company.
'SEc. 15. Be it further enacted, etc., That said waterworks company shall
have the right to fix the rates of charges for water; provided, that the net
profits of the company shall not exceed ten per cent per annum, and shall
publish sworn annual statements of its business and condition; and that the
city council shall have the power to appoint a committee of not less than
five, who shall have access to the books of the said company and make such
extracts from the same as they may deem necessary, and in case the said
profit shall exceed ten per cent, the city council shall have the right to require said company to reduce the price of water in such manner, and in
such a proportion, that the profits shall never exceed the above named

rates; and provided, further, that the rates charged shall never exceed
those now paid by the city, and in case said company shall refuse compliance, the demand of said city may be enforced by a writ of mandamus.

NEW ORLEANS WATERWORKS CO. v. LOUISIANA. 349
Opinion of the Court.

31'. Walter Guion, -Hr. Benjamin Rice Forman and -Y/r.
Samuel L. Gilmore for New Orleans.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing state-

ment of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error has made a motion to dismiss this
writ of error on the ground of a lack of jurisdiction, because no
Federal question is disclosed in the record.
The plaintiff in error, on the contrary, claims the existence
in the record of several questions of a Federal character, and in
the brief prepared to oppose this motion they are set forth as
follows:
"(1) The charter of the waterworks company prescribing
mandamus as the remedy to maintain a lawful tariff of water
rates, is not the substitution by the writs of forfeiture of charter,
as a remedy for the maintenance of unlawful rates, a breach of
the contract, and a deprivation of the property without due
process of law, and a denial of the equal protection of the laws?
"(2) If such remedy be sanctioned by, and sought pursuant
to a state statute, subsequent in date to the charter of the
waterworks company, does not such a statute impair the obligation of the charter contract, divest vested rights, and deny to
said company the equal protection of the laws?
"(3) Can the State forfeit such a charter and take back the
franchises at the same time that she leaves the corporation in
possession of the physical property depleted in value by the loss
of the franchise, and at the same time that she keeps the money
paid for the property plus the franchise?
"(1) The general law of the State providing a r'estitutio in
integrum in all cases where a synallagmatic, commutative contract is dissolved, and the charter containing no special provision taking the State's contract from under general provisions
*of law, is not a state statute authorizing the attorney general
to institute proceedings to forfeit the contract and take back
the franchise, at the same time that the State keeps the consideration paid for the same, a statute impairing the obligations of
a contract?

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"(5) Is not a judicial decision refusing to apply to this contract the general provisions of the law of contracts prevailing
in the State, a taking by the State through her judiciary of the
property of the defendant corporation without due process of
law ?
"(6) Is not the legislative resolution, the action of the attorney general, and the action of the Supreme Court of the State,
the taking by the State of property without due process of law
through the instrumentality of her legislative, her executive and
her judicial departments, both jointly and severally?
"(7) Is not the refusal to alpply to this case the general provisions of the law of contract prevailing in the State of Louisiana
a denial to the plaintiff in error of the equal protection of the
laws of the State of Louisiana?"
These questions are, as is said, simply amplifications of the
grounds actually taken by plaintiff in error upon the trial and
on the argument of the case in the Supreme Court of the State,
and which are plainly set out in the record. This may be
assumed, and the point which arises is whether the matters
thus set forth do in truth create even a color of a Federal question.
It has long been the holding of this court that in order to
warrant the exercise of jurisdiction over the judgments of state
courts there must be something more than a mere claim that a
Federal question exists. There must, in addition to the simple
setting up of the claim be some color thereror, or, in other
words, the claim must be of such a character that its mere mention does not show it destitute of merit; there must be some
fair ground for asserting its existence, and, in the absence thereof, a writ of error will be dismissed, although the claim of a
Federal question was plainly set up. Thus in iJlillingar v.
H1artitpee, 6 Wall. 258, the Chief Justice (at page 261) said :
"Something more than a bare assertion of such an authority
seems essential to the jurisdiction of this court. The authority
intended by the act is one having a real existence, derived from.
competent governmental power." This case arose under the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, and jurisdiction was
sought to be maintained upon the assertion that the validity of

NE\V ORLEANS WATERWORKS CO. v. LOUISIANA. 315
Opinion of the Court.

an authority exercised under the United States was drawn in
question, and the decision was against its validity. It was held
not sufficient to make the claim, but there must be some color
of foundation for its assertion.
In New Orleans v. New Orleans Waterworks Company, 142

U. S. 79, upon a motion to dismiss the writ of error on the
ground that no Federal question was involved, it was said by
the court (page 87):
"While there is in the amended and supplemental answer of
the city a formal averment that the ordinance No. 909 impaired the obligation of a contract arising out of the act of
1877, which entitled the city to a supply of water free of charge,
the bare averment of a Federal question is not in all cases sufficient. It must not be wholly without foundation. There must
be at least color of ground for such averment, otherwise a Federal question might be set up in almost any case, and the jurisdiction of this court invoked simply for the purpose of delay."
Again, in Hamblin v. Western Land Company, 147 U. S.
531, upon a like motion to dismiss the writ of error, the court
said: "It is doubtful whether there is a Federal question in
this case. A real, and not a fictitious, Federal question is essential to the jurisdiction of this court over the judgment of
state courts," citing the two cases just above referred to.
In St. Joseph & Grand Island Railroad Company v. Steele,

167 U. S. 659, it was said by the court (page 662):
"We cannot accede to the proposition that, because the acts
of Congress, which authorized the construction of the bridge
in question, gave the right to build a railroad and toll bridge,
the conceded power of the State to tax did not extend to the
bridge in both aspects. Nor can we agree that the making of
such a contention raised a Federal question of a character to
confer original jurisdiction in the Circuit Court of the United
States. Not every mere allegation of the existence of a Federal question in a controversy will suffice for that purpose.
There must be a real, substantive question, on which the case
may be made to turn."
Although the above case relates to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, yet, so far as this question is concerned, the
principle is the same as to both courts.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

And in ilson v. _vorh Carolina,169 U. S. 586, it was held
that there must be a real and substantial Federal question existing in order to give this court jurisdiction to review a judgment of a state court, and if the question raised were so unfounded in substance that the court would be justified in saying
there was no fair color for the claim that it was of a Federal
nature, the writ would be dismissed.
These cases show the rule and its limitations, and where by
the record it appears that although a claim of a Federal question had been plainly made, if it also clearly appear that it
lacked all color of merit, and had no substance or foundation,
the mere faict that it was raised was not sufficient to give this
court jurisdiction.
We must look at the questions submitted by the plaintiff in
error in the light of these decisions for the purpose of determining whether there is any fair foundation for the several
claims. It must also be remembered that for years prior to and
at the time of the formation of this corporation it was the unquestioned law that all corporations were created by the State
subject to its implied power, if not stated in the charter, to dissolve the corporation for a misuse or for a non-use of its corporator powers or obligations. The contract contained in a
charter is always subject to this power residing in the State.
Thus in Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43, it was stated by the
court (page 51):
"A private corporation created by the legislature may lose its
franchises by a misuser or non-user of them; and they may be
resumed by the government under a judicial judgment upon a
quo woarranto to ascertain and enforce a forfeiture. This is the
common law of the land, and is a tacit condition annexed to the
creation of every such corporation."
It is stated by Chancellor Kent, in his Commentaries, (vol. 2,
p. 378, Comstock's ed.,) that there were two modes of proceedin g judicially to ascertain and enforce the forfeiture of a charter
for default or abuse of power; the one by scir facias, the other
by information in the nature of a quo warranto; both these
modes of proceeding against corporations being at the instance
and on behalf of the government. The State must be a party

NEW ORLEANS WATERWORKS CO. v. LOUISIANA. 347
Opinion of the Court.

to the prosecution, for the judgment is that the parties be ousted,
and the franchises seized into the hands of the governirent.
In Chicago Life Insurance Colnpany v. Heedles, 113 U. S.
574, the court, at page 579, said:
"The case upon the merits, so far as they involve any question of which this court may take cognizance, is within a very
narrow compass. The main proposition of the counsel is that
the obligation of the contract which the company had with the
State, in its oxiginal and amended charter, will be impaired, if
that company be held subject to the operation of subsequent
statutes, regulating the business of life insurance and authorizing the courts, in certain contingencies, to suspend, restrain or
prohibit insurance companies incorporated in Illinois from further continuance in business. This position cannot be sustained,
consistently with the power which the State had, and, upon

every ground of public policy, must always have, over corporations of her own creation. Nor is it justified by any reasonable
interpretation of the language of the company's charter. The
right of the plaintiff in error to exist as a corporation, and its
authority, in that capacity, to conduct the particular business
for which it was created, were granted, subject to the condition
that the privileges and franchises conferred upon it should not
be abused, or so employed as to defeat the ends for which it
was established, and that, when so abused or misemployed, they
might be withdrawn or reclaimed by the State, in such way
and by such modes of procedure as were consistent with law.
Although no such condition is expressed in the company's charter, it is necessarily implied in every grant of corporate existence. Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43, 51; Angell & Ames on
Corporations, 9th ed. see. 774, note."
In that case the question was whether the company could
be dissolved on account of its insolvency. Here one of the
questions is whether this company can be dissolved and its
charter forfeited on account of the illegal rates charged for
supplying water. Upon the question of insolvency in the
Needles case, the court (at page 581) said:
"It is not competent, under existing laws, for this court to
inquire whether the state court correctly interpreted the evi-

OCTOBER TERAM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

dence as to the company's insolvency; nor whether the facts
make a case which, under the statute of 1874, required or permitted a judgment perpetually enjoining it from doing any further business. We are restricted by the settled limits of our
jurisdiction to the specific inquiry whether the statutes themselves, upon which the judgment below rests, impair the obligation of any contract which the company, or its policyholders,
had with the State, or infringe any right secured by the National Constitution.

.

.

.

Did the company, by its charter,

have a contract that it should, without reference to the will of
the State, or the public interests, exercise the franchises granted
by the State after it became insolvent and consequently unable
to meet the obligations which, as a corporation, under the sanction of the State, it had assumed to its policyholders?. Our
answer to these questions is sufficiently indicated by what has
been said."
The statute in question in the above case, it will be observed,
was passed subsequently to the grant of the charter to the corporation. Even there it was held that such a statute did not
impair the obligation of the contract contained in such charter.
In the case before us there is no subsequent statute.
And again, at page 58-4 of the same case:
"It is further contended that the state enactments in question impair the obligation of the contracts which the company
has made with its creditors and policyholders. To this it is
sufficient to reply, in the language of the court in ffumm v.
Polomac Co., S Pet. 281, 287, where it was said: 'A corporation, by the very terms and nature of its political existence, is
subject to a dissolution, by a surrender of its corporate franchises, and by a forfeiture of them for wilful misuse and nonuse. Every creditor must be presumed to understand the nature and incidents of such a body politic, and to contract with
reference to them. And it would be a doctrine new in the law
that the existence of a private contract of the corporation should
force upon it a perpetuity of existence, contrary to public policy, and the nature and objects of its charter.' The contracts
of policyholders and creditors are not annihilated by such a
judgment as was rendered below; for, to the extent that the

NEW ORLEANS WATERWORKS CO. v. LOUISIANA. 349
Opinion of the Court.

company has any property or assets, their interests can be protected, and are protected by that judgment. The action of the
State may or may not have affected the intrinsic value of the
company's policies; that would depend somewhat on the manner in which its affairs have been conducted, upon the amount
of profits it has realized from business, and upon its actual condition when this suit was instituted ; but the State did not, by
granting the original and amended charter, preclude herself
from seeking, by proper judicial proceedings, to reclaim the
franchises and privileges she has given, when they should be
so misused as to defeat the objects of her grant, or when the
company had become insolvent so as not to be able to meet
the obligations which, under the authority of the State, it had
assumed to policyholders and creditors."
That the State has power to forfeit the charter of a corporation for an abuse of its privileges is recognized as the law of
Louisiana. The Civil Code of that State, article 447, has for
many years authorized a proceeding in the nature of a quo
warranto to forfeit the charter for misuse, and it has been held
that such article applies to every charter granted since its adoption. Atchafalaya Bank v. Dawson, 13 La. R. 497; State Of
Louisiana v. Hew OrZeans Gas Light & Banking Company, 2
iRob. La. 529, 532.
Again, the claim that the judgment deprives the plaintiff in
error of property without due process of law must be looked at
with reference to the cases upon the subject as to what constitutes due process of law. Thus in David.son v. lHew Orleans,
96 U. S. 97, it was held that a statute which required that. before an assessment upon land should become effectual it must be
submitted to a court of justice, with notice to the owner of the
property and an opportunity given him to appear and contest
the assessment, constituted due process of law.
In Afurray's Lessee et al. v. H1oboken Land &c. Company, 18
How.272, the question of what amounted to due process of law
was examined, and the proceeding in that case held valid. MNr.
Justice Curtis said, in delivering the opinion of the court:
"To what principles, then, are we to resort to ascertain
whether this process, enacted by Congress, is due process? To

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

this the answer must be twofold. We must examine the Constitution itself, to see whether this process be in conflict with
any of its provisions. If not found to be so, we must look to
those settled usages and modes of proceeding existing in the
common and statute law of England, before the emigration of
our ancestors, and which are shown not to have been unsuited
to their civil and political condition by having been acted on by
them after the settlement of this country."
In Ifennard v. Louisiana, 92 U. S. 480, cited in Foster v.
Kansas, 112 U. S. 201, 206, it was held that a state statute regulating proceedings for the removal of a person from a state office was valid with regard to the Federal Constitution, if it
provided for bringing the party proceeded against into court,
notifying him of the case he had to meet, giving him an opportunity to be heard in his defence, and for the deliberation and
judgment of the court.
And in Simon v. Craft, 182 U. S. 427, it was held that the
essential elements of due process of law were notice and an opportunity to defend, and in determining whether those rights
were denied the court will be governed by the substance of
things and not by mere form ; that the due process clause in
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution did not necessitate that the proceedings in a state court should be by a particular' mode, but only that there should be a regular course of
proceeding, in which notice was given of the claim asserted and
opportunity offered to defend against it.
Regarding the impairment of any alleged contract, it must be
borne in mind that the constitutional provision refers to state
legislation, or to an enactment of a legislative character, though
by a municipal corporation, made subsequent to the contract,
and which impairs its obligation. _Ntew Orleans l1aterworks
Comany v. Louisiana Sugar Refining Company, 125 U. S.
118, 130; St. Paul Gas Light Company v. St. Paul, 181 U. S.
142, 148.
This court does not obtain jurisdiction to review a judgment
of a state court because that judgment impairs or fails to give
effect to a contract. The state court must give effect to some
subsequent statute or state constitution which impairs the obli-

NEW ORLEANS WATERWORKS CO. v. LOUISIANA. 351
Opinion of the Court.

gation of the contract, and the judgment of that court must rest
on the statute either expressly or by necessary implication.
Railroad Company v. Rock, 4 Wall. 177, 180; Railroac Coinpany v. 2oClure, 10 Wall. 511; Knox v. Exchange Bank, 12
Wall. 379.
These cases are referred to and applied in Lehigh IVater Co.
v. Easton, 121 U. S. 388, 392.
With these principles in mind, we come to an examination of
the questions raised by the plaintiff in error.
The answer to the first question, as to mandamus being the
exclusive remedy for illegal rates, is that the state court has
otherwise construed the charter, and has held that mandamus
is not the only remedy, but that the company was liable to be
proceeded against by quo warranto at the suit of the State
through its attorney general. The claim that by so proceeding
there is any impairment of the obligation of a contract by any
subsequent legislation, or that there has thus been a deprivation
of property without due process of law, or a denial of the equal
protection of the laws, has no colorable foundation.
An examination of this question, among others, was made by
the state court after full hearing by all parties, and all that can
possibly be claimed on the part of the plaintiff in error is that
such court erroneously decided the law. That constitutes no
Federal question.
As to the second question, there is no state statute subsequent
in date to the charter of the water company under or by virtue
of which this proceeding was commenced, or which in any way
affects the contract of plaintiff in error. The joint resolution
of the legislature of Louisiana referred the whole matter to the
attorney general for him to bring suit to forfeit the charter or
to take such action as he might think proper. It was a simple
authority, if any were needed, to present the question to the
court, and neither the contract nor any other rights of the parties were in anywise altered by such resolution. The proceeding herein is based solely upon an alleged violation of the terms
of the charter by the corporation; that question has been judicially determined after a full investigation by the state courts,
and in a proceeding to which the company was a party and

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

after a full hearing has been accorded it in such proceeding.
This was due process of law, and no Federal question arises
from the decision of the court.
The same answer would seem to fit the other questions submitted by the plaintiff in error. They are all based upon the
proposition that the judicial determination of these particular
questions by the state tribunal was erroneous, and on account
of such error the rights of the plaintiff in error, under the Federal Constitution, have been violated. But mere error in deciding questions of this nature furnishes no ground of jurisdiction for this court to review the judgments of a state court.
Assuming that there was a contract, as is claimed by the
plaintiff in error, arising by virtue of the passage of the acts of
1877 and 1878, and their acceptance by the corporation, yet
still the erroneous decision by the state court, admitting, arguendo, that it was erroneous, raises no Federal question. This
court does not and cannot entertain jurisdiction to review the
judgment of a state court, solely because that judgment impairs or fails to give effect to a contract. Curtis v. ll/litney,
13 Wall. 68, holds that a statute may even affect a prior contract without always impairing its obligation. The judgment
must give effect to some subsequent state statute, or state constitution, or, it may be added, some ordinance of a municipal
corporation passed by the authority of the state legislature,
which impairs the obligation of a contract, before the constitutional provision regarding the impairment of such contract
comes into play. See authorities above cited.
The State in this case has secured the forfeiture of the charter of the defendant by means of a judicial decree obtained in
a state court which had jurisdiction to give the relief prayed
for, and after a hearing of the defendant in the usual manner
pertaining to courts of justice. The facts upon which such
forfeiture was based have been judicially declared and found,
and the defendant has had full opportunity for its defence upon
such hearing. The cause of forfeiture was the fact, which was
found by the court, that the corporation had charged illegal
rates for the water it furnished, and the right to declare such
forfeiture because of a violation by defendant of the conditions

NEW ORLEANS WATERWORKS CO. v. LOUISIANA. 353
Opinion of the Court.

of its charter, was implied in the very grant of the charter itself. The claim, therefore, that the forfeiture was a violation
of the charter, and of the contract therein contained, and was
on that account a taking of defendant's property without due
process of law, or that the State by such judgment had denied
to defendant the equal protection of the laws, cannot obtain.
Whether defendant had so violated its charter was a fact to be
decided by the state court. That court had full jurisdiction
over the parties and the subject-matter, and its decision of the
question was conclusive in this case so far as this court is concerned.
Neither the legislative resolution, nor the action of the attorney general, nor that of the Supreme Court of the State, nor
all combined, can, as contended for by plaintiff in error, be in
anywise regarded as the taking by the State of property without due process of law through the instrumentality of its legislative, its executive and its judicial departments, either jointly
or severally. When analyzed, the whole claim is reduced to
the assertion that in enforcing a condition which is impliedly a
part of the charter, the State, through the regular administration of the law by its courts of justice, has by such courts, erroneously construed its own laws. This court in such a case
has no jurisdiction to review that determination.
The assumption that the state court has refused to apply to
the contract herein set up the general provisions of the law of
contracts prevailing in the State, and that, therefore, the State
has taken through her judiciary the property of the plaintiff in
error without due process of law, is wholly without foundation.
If it were otherwise, then any alleged error in the decision by
a state court, in applying state law to the case in hand, resulting in a judgment against a party, could be reviewed in this
court on a claim that on account of such error due process of
law had not been given him. This cannot be maintained.
That the bondholders were not made parties is also a question which this court cannot review. As is said in the .Yeedles
case, 113 U. S. supra, the corporation, by the very terms of its
existence, is subject to a dissolution at the suit of the State on
account of any wilful violation of its charter, and the creditors
VOL. CLXXXV-23

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

of the corporation deal with it subject to this power.

They

must accept the result of the decision of the state court.
Upon a careful review of all the questions, we are of opinion
that within the authorities cited the claim that any Federal
question exists in this record is so clearly without color of
foundation that this court is without jurisdiction in this case,
and the writ of error is, therefore,
Dismissed.

WOODWORTH v. NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIR CUIT.

222. Argued April 16, 1902.-Decided May 5, 1902.
N11o.
The obligee in a bond which supersedes an order confirming a sale of real
estate, and directs the immediate execution of a deed and delivery of
possession thereof to the purchaser, is entitled, after that order has been
affirmed on appeal, to recover as damages for the breach of the obligation of the bond the value of the use and possession, that is to say in
this case, the rents and profits of the real estate during the time the purchaser is kept out of the possession and use of the real estate by the
supersedeas bond, and the appeal in which it was allowed.

THE question arising for decision in this cause is embodied in
the following certificate from the United Stites Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit:
"The United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit, sitting at the city of St. Louis, Missouri, on this 27th
day of December, 1900, hereby certifies that upon the record
on file in said court in the above-entitled causes, wherein Lucian
Woodworth, Frank D. Brown and George N. Clayton are plaintiffs in error and the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Company is defendant in error, and Lucian Woodworth, Frank
D. Brown and George N. Clayton are appellants and the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company is appellee, and which

