OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

TALBOT v. SIOUX NATIONAL BANK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 190. Argued March 17, 1902.-Decided April 14, 1902.

A motion was made to dismiss on the ground that the record presented no
Federal question, which was overruled.
This suit was not commenced within the time prescribed by the statute of
limitations.
On the face of the petition in this case, the action was barred, and against
its allegations, and the circumstances detailed in it, the court cannot indulge the supposition that the plaintiff's consciousness of the wrong was
not aroused until some time within two years from the commencement
of this action.

THIs is an action brought in the District Court of Woodbury

County, Iowa, under sections 5197 and 5198 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, relating to national banks, to recover
the sum of $16,250, the amount of interest alleged to have been
unlawfully charged and collected by the defendant bank. It
was argued with No. 164, ante, 111.
The original petition alleged as follows:
"The plaintiff claims of the defendants, and each of them,
the sum of $16,000, as money justly due plaintiff from defendants, on account of unlawful and usurious interest, knowingly
and unlawfully taken from the plaintiff within the seven years
last passed.
"The plaintiff further alleges that during said time he had
various and numerous business transactions with the defendant
bank; in all said transactions defendant charged and exacted a
greater rate of interest for the use of moneys had and received
by plaintiff from the defendants than the law recognizes or permits a national bank to charge for the use of money."
The petition also alleged that the books and accounts wherein said transactions were kept were in the possession of the defendant, and " that the plaintiff has no itemized statement of the
account between him and the defendant," and that, th'erefore,

TALBOT v. SIOUIX NATIONAL BANK.
Statement of the Case.

he was unable to incorporate in the petition a statement of the
accounts or bill of particulars.
The petition also alleged that there was due plaintiff the sum
of $250, deposited by him with the defendant, which had never
been drawn out or paid to him.
Upon demurrer to the petition the court ordered it to be more
specific, "so far as to require the plaintiff to state his cause of
action for usury in one count, and also to state his cause of action for a deposit in a separate count, and also to state the amount
claimed as usury that was paid within two years next prior to
the commencement of this cause of action." The petition was
thereupon amended.
We are only concerned with the first and second counts, which
alleged the usury. It was alleged in the first count that on or
about the 27th of May, 1889, the plaintiff commenced doing
business with the bank in the ordinary way between the bank
and its patrons, and continued to so do business with it until it closed its doors on or about the 27th of August, 1896.
That during that time the bank knowingly charged him with a
greater rate of interest than allowed by the laws of Iowa, which
amounted to more than one dollar, but the exact amount of
which he was unable to state, because the books containing the
transactions were in the possession of the bank.
That on the 24th of February, 1890, the bank added the
amount of usurious interest charged by it to the legitimate
indebtedness of plaintiff, and included both and the sum of
$2000 advanced to plaintiff, making a total of $10,000, in a
promissory note bearing interest at the rate of ten per cent per
annum, and as collateral security for said note plaintiff assigned
to the bank all of his equity in eighty-one contracts, covering
3290.57 acres of land in Plymouth County, Iowa.
That on the 4th of March, 1890, plaintiff executed to the
bank a non-negotiable promissory note for $28,000, to cover
all of his indebtedness to the bank, to wit, "fourteen thousand
five hundred dollars, in a draft, to pay on certain railroad lands;
the ten thousand dollar note herein mentioned before, and the
unlawful and usurious interest knowingly reserved and charged
prior thereto, and continued in said ten thousand dollar note

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

aforesaid and continued and renewed in the twenty-eight thousand dollar note."
To secure said note plaintiff executed a mortgage of the land
aforesaid.
"That the above note and mortgage, which were made upon
the 4th day of March, 1890, did include the $10,000 illegal and
unearned note, and interest to the amount of $17.10; and which
said note and mortgage were made to date back and to bear
date of Mlarch 1, 1890, thereby increasing the rate of interest
on the $10,000 note to about 14 per cent per annum; and which
said illegal, unlawful and usurious interest was knowingly reserved and charged by the defendant and included in and is a
part of the $28,000 note aforesaid.
"That the unlawful and usurious interest knowingly reserved
and charged by said defendant bank against the plaintiff herein,
together with the interest which in law and in fact was and is
forfeited, but was unlawfully and wrongfully put in a pretended judgment against plaintiff herein in a certain case entitled T 1K lrhite v. D. H. Talbot et al., in the District Court
of Plymouth County, Iowa, and the forfeited interest which
has since accrued, amounts in all to about nine thousand dollars; the exact amount plaintiff cannot state for the reason the
accounts, books, papers and records of said business between
plaintiff and defendant bank is in the custody and possession
of said defendant and to which plaintiff has no access; and
which amount of nine thousand dollars is due and owing to
the plaintiff from the defendant."
The second count alleged the transactions between the plaintiff and the bank, substantially as in the first count, though in
somewhat different order and form, and not so much in detail,
and that the charges and reservations of usurious interest and
its additions and continuations through the various forms of
his indebtedness were without his knowledge or consent.
That the bank without the knowledge or consent of plaintiff
delivered the $28,000 note and the mortgage which was executed to secure the same, to one J. W. White, a stockholder in
the bank, "who afterwards unlawfully and before said note

TALBOT v. SIOUX NATIONAL BANK.
Statement of the Case.

was due and payable, commenced a foreclosure proceedings in
the District Court of Plymouth County, Iowa."
That said White with certain officers of the bank "did conspire with a view to the bringing about a foreclosure, and by
this means adjudicate the liabilities which they 'would bear
under the provisions of section 5329, Revised Statutes, because
of the knowingly reserving and charging of unlawful and illegal interest as heretofore set out in this amended petition.
And that said interested parties as officers or agents of the
said bank, unlawfully and with the intent to impose upon the
court, by fraudulent representations to the honorable judge of
the District Court in Plymouth County, Iowa, set out in their
petition for said foreclosure the right and justice of foreclosure
upon the sole ground of non-payment of interest, which interest
they, individually and collectively, had full knowledge of having been reserved and charged, and of which the defendant in
said proceedings was without knowledge at that time, and the
said interest was forfeited under the provisions of sections 5197
and 5198 of the Revised Statutes.
"Par. 6. That the said J. W. White, in pursuance of the conspiracy formed with the said A. S. Garretson and W. L. Joy
as aforesaid, and for the purpose of misleading and deceiving
said District Court and causing it to assume jurisdiction in said
case, wrongfully and unlawfully suppressed the fact that said
twenty-eight-thousand-dollar note contained unlawful and usurious interest and that all of the interest in said note and the
indebtedness of the plaintiff to defendant and said Garretson
had been forfeited, and suppressed the fact that said note had
lost its interest-bearing power and was not due, and that no
right of action then existed, and suppressed the fact that the
court had no jurisdiction to try or hear said cause or render
judgment therein.
"Par. T. The plaintiff further states that on or about the
9th day of April, 1891, the said J. W. White, A. S. Garretson,
W. L. Joy and the firm of Joy, Hudson, Call & Joy, and the
defendant bank, did wrongfully and unlawfully combine, conspire and confederate together to and did cause an action to be
commenced and proceedings to be instituted against the plain-

OCTOBER TEhIM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tiff herein, and the land described in said Exhibit I'B,' in the
District Court of Plymouth County, Iowa, in the name of said
J. W. White, instead of the name of the defendant herein,
The Sioux National Bank, the real party in interest. That
said action was so commenced in the name of said J. W. White
for the purpose of avoiding and evading the force and effect of
the sections of the Revised Statutes of the United States herebefore set forth and referred to in this amendment."
That on the 6th of May, 1891, judgment was obtained in the
foreclosure suit for the sum of $31,086.50, which included "the
unlawful and usurious interest and the forfeited interest." The
land mortgaged was sold "on special execution" to satisfy the
judgment, and, except three forty-acre pieces, was purchased
by C. L. Joy, a director of the bank, for White. Sheriff's deeds
were subsequently executed to the purchasers and recorded in
Plymouth County.
That the court in the foreclosure suit relied on the statements
of counsel and the allegation of the petition, and did not know
that usurious interest was charged, and, "deceived and misled
by the fraud practiced upon it," rendered judgment "for the sum
of $13,125.40, more than would be actually due at maturity of
said note and mortgage, to wit, March 1, 1895.
That the District Court of Plymouth County did not have jurisdiction of plaintiff or the lands mortgaged because by reason
of the circumstances set out, and that the note was not due, and
the judgment, decree and the execution were void.
That the said White and the defendant bank on or about the
31st of May, 1894, took possession of the lands and property
described in the mortgage, and have forcibly held possession
ever since.
The defendant demurred to the petition, and stated as grounds
of demurrer to the first count, among others, that it did not appear that any usurious interest had been paid by plaintiff, and
that it did not state a cause of action within the provisions of
sections 5197 and 5198 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States. As grounds of deimurrer to the second count it was
stated: "1st. That said action is barred by the limitations pre-

TALBOT v. SIOUX NATIONAL BANK.
Counsel for Parties.

scribed in section 5198, Revised Statutes of the United States,
under which said action purports to be brought."
The demurrer was sustained, and the plaintiff, not pleading
further, the action was dismissed. The Supreme Court of the
State affirmed the judgment. Thereupon this writ of error was
allowed.
The Supreme Court of the State, passing on the case, said:
"The defendant demurred to the two counts of the petition
alleging the cause of action herein stated. Several grounds
were stated in the demurrer, among others that the statute of
limitations had run against the plaintiff's claim. The demurrer
was sustained generally, and, the plaintiff electing to stand on
his pleadings, the cause as to the claim made in counts one and
two of the petition was dismissed.
"The twenty-eight thousand dollar note was never paid by
the plaintiff. A land mortgage was given to secure it, and that
was foreclosed in Plymouth County, Iowa, and a decree rendered against the plaintiff thereon May 6, 1891. The land covered by this mortgage was sold some time thereafter, just when
does not certainly appear, but it was more than two years prior
to the commencement of this action.
" Section 5198 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
provides for the recovery back of twice the amount of unlawful
interest paid if the action therefor be commenced within two
years from the time the usurious transaction occurred.
"This action was begun October 7,1896, and at that time
the plaintiff's cause of action was barred and the demurrer for
that reason was properly sustained. There was no error in
striking a part of the prayer from the third count of the petition.
"The judgment is affirmed."
The assignments of error assert in various ways plaintiff's
claim of rights under sections 5197 and 5198 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States.
.11r. eremiah ff. Wilson, .Mr. James Z .Redingtonand .6r.
A. A. Hoehling, Jr., for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

M'. Tr'ancis F. Oldham,Mr. Asa F. Call and Xrf'. Henry J.
Taylor for defendant in error.
M.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

1. A motion is made to dismiss on the ground that the record
presents no Federal question. The motion is overruled. Plaintiff claimed a right under sections 5197 and 5198 of the Revised
Statutes, and the decisions of the courts of the State were adverse to such right. Sec. 709, Revised Statutes.
2. The demurrer of defendant in error was sustained because
the action was not "commenced within two years from the
time the usurious transaction occurred." This ruling was indubitably right if any date mentioned in the petition be that of
the usurious transaction or transactions relied on. The latest
date mentioned in the petition is the 31st of May, 1891, when, it
is alleged, "J. W. White and the defendant herein (plaintiff in
error)

.

.

.

took possession of the lands and property de-

scribed," in the mortgage which Talbot gave to the bank March 47,
1890. The present suit was commenced October 7, 1896, hence
not within two years from the 31st of May, 1894, and not within
six years from the date of the judgment upon which the property was sold.
But it is contended that the bank fraudulently concealed
from the plaintiff that it had charged him with usurious interest, and that, therefore, the period of limitation of the statute
did not begin "until the discovery of the wrong." A disputable proposition. Besides, it is not available to the plaintiff.
The petition does not disclose when the wrong was discovered.
On the face of the petition the action was barred, and against.
its allegations and the circumstances detailed in it we cannot
indulge the supposition that plaintiff's consciousness of the wrong
was not aroused until some time within two years before the
commencement of this action.
Judgment afirmed.
MR. JusrTio

GR.AY took no part in the decision.

