SWAFFORD v. TEMPLETON.
Syllabus.

tablishes that in the works in question, where long after the
grant of the Jones patent large reservoirs were first employed,
this was done not because better results were secured by means
of mixing than had been obtained by the mixing theretofore
resorted to, but because the larger output of blast furnaces
pointed to the necessity for the construction of a larger reservoir than those previously employed.
The effect of the decision now rendered it seems to me is,
therefore, to put the patentee in a position where, without invention on his part, and without the possession by him of lawful letters patent, he is allowed to exact tribute from the steel
and iron-making industry, whenever those engaged in such industry desire to increase their plants or to more conveniently
and satisfactorily conduct their operations so as to keep pace
with the natural evolution of modern industrial development.
CHI F JusTICE, MR. JUSTInE
in this dissent.
concur
BRBEwER
JusTIE

I am authorized to say that THE
HARLAN

and IR.

SWAFFORD v. TEMPLETON.
ERROR TO THE OIRCUIT COURT FOR THE EASTERN DISTRIOr OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 487. Submitted April 14, 1902.-Decided May 19, 190"2.

The court below erred in dismissing this action, for want of jurisdiction, as
the right which it was claimed had been unlawfully invaded, was one
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States; and
although it has been held that, on error from a state court to this court,
where the Federal question asserted to be contained in the record, is manifestly lacking all color of merit, the writ of error should be dismissed,
that doctrine relates to questions arising on writs of error from state
courts, where, aside from the Federal status of the parties to the action,

or the inherent nature of the Federal right which is sought to be vindicated, jurisdiction is to be determined by ascertaining whether the record
raises a bona fide Federal question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

THIs action was begun by Swafford, plaintiff in error, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern Division
of the Eastern District of Tennessee. Templeton and Pearcy,
defendants in error, were made defendants to the action, the
object of which was to recover damages for an asserted wrongful refusal by the defendants to permit the plaintiff to vote at
a national election for a member of the Rouse of iRepresentatives, held on November 6, 1900, in the district of the residence
of the plaintiff.
The declaration expressly charged that the plaintiff was a
white man, a natural-born citizen of the United States, and was
such on November 6, 1900, and had been for many years prior
thereto a resident and duly qualified voter in the county of
lRhea, State of Tennessee, and, as such, entitled under the
Constitution and laws of the United States and of the State to
vote for members of Congress, and that he had been illegally
deprived of such right by the defendants, when serving as
election officers at an election held on November 6, 1900, in
the district of the residence of the plaintiff, in said county of
Rhea.
The declaration specified the manner in which the right
which it was asserted existed under the Constitution and laws
of the United States and of the State had been violated, as
follows: That for a number of years there had been in force in
Tennessee certain special registration and ballot laws, which
were operative only in counties containing a population of fifty
thousand inhabitants or over, and in cities, towns and civil
districts having a population of twenty-five hundred inhabitants
or over; that Rhea County was not, prior to 1899, affected by
the legislation in question, because it did not have a population
of fifty thousand or upwards, and had no town, city or civil
district within its borders containing a population of twentyfive hundred; that, not being subject to the operation of the
statutes in question, the elections in Rhea County, as in other
counties similarly situated, were governed by, and conducted
in accordance with, the general election laws prevailing in the
State of Tennessee; that in 1899 the legislature of Tennessee
passed a law known as chapter 163 of 1899, by which the civil

SWAFFORD v. TEMPLETON.
Statement of the Case.

districts or subdivisions theretofore existing in Rhea County
were diminished in number, and so arranged as to cause the
civil district in which the plaintiff lived and was entitled to
vote to contain a population of over two thousand five hundred

inhabitants, and therefore to become subject to the aforesaid
special registration and election laws, if the redistricting law in
question was valid.

It was further averred that at the election

held on November 6, 1900, for a member of Congress, the
defendants, who were a majority of the election judges conducting such election, when the complainant presented himself
to vote, insisted that he mark his ballot, and fold it in a partic-

ular way without assistance, as required by the special ballot
law. It was asserted that this demand by the election officers
was lawful if the special ballot law applied to the conduct of
the election, but was unlawful if the election in Rhea County
was not subject to such special law and was controlled by the
general election law of the State. Averring that he was an
illiterate person and unable to mark or fold his ballot, unassisted,
and was therefore not able to comply with the provisions of
the special ballot law referred to, it was alleged that the vote of
plaintiff was rejected by the defendants, despite the insistence
of the plaintiff that the election ought legally to have been
conducted according to the requirements of the general law
and not by those of the special law, for the reason that the redistricting act of 1899 was absolutely void.
The grounds upon which it was alleged that the act of 1899
redistricting Rhea County was void may be thus summarized:
Because it was "class legislation in violation of the Federal
Constitution," it being asserted that said law was enacted for
partisan purposes, and that although there were other counties
in the State similarly situated as was Rhea County, the civil
districts as laid out by the county courts in such other counties,
pursuant to statutory authority, were left undisturbed by the
legislature. In other particulars, also, the act in question was
averred to constitute special or class legislation. It was specially
averred that, as prior to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, plaintiff enjoyed

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Counsel for Parties.

the elective franchise, by virtue of that amendment and of
enumerated provisions of the state constitution "plaintiff became, and was possessed of, the right of suffrage as an immunity or privilege of citizenship, of which he could not be deprived by the enactment of chapter 163 (the law of 1899) under
the circumstances aforesaid."
The defendants filed a demurrer questioning the sufficiency
of the declaration upon various grounds.
After hearing upon the demurrer, the court filed an opinion
in which it said that it clearly appeared from the declaration
that the action did not really and substantially involve a Federal
question, and that the court was without jurisdiction or power
to entertain the suit. 108 Fed. Rep. 309. An entry was made
sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the suit, and it was
recited that the dismissal was solely because of the want of
jurisdiction. A certificate of the judge, moreover, was filed,
which is as follows:
"In this cause I hereby certify that the order of dismissal
herein made is based solely on the ground that no Eederal
question was involved, and that the declaration, in my opinion,
disclosed the infraction of no right arising under or out of the
Federal laws or Constitution ; and that treating the demurrer
as presenting this question of jurisdiction, and acting also independently of the demurrer, and on the court's own motion, the
suit is dismissed only for the reasons above stated; that is, that
the controversy, not arising under the laws and Constitution of
the United States, there is consequently no jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court of the United States.
"This certificate is made conformably to act of Congress of
March 3, 1891, chapter 517, and the opinion filed herein April 30,
1901, is made a part of the record, and will be certified and
sent up as a part of the proceedings, together with the certificate."
br. Fi-ederic l ee Xfansfield for plaintiff in error.
Xi,. Jerome TempZeton for defendants in error.

SWAFFORD v. TEMPLETON.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The sole question is, Did the Circuit Court err in dismissing
the action, on the ground that it was not one within the jurisdiction of the court? An affirmative answer to this question is
rendered necessary by the decision in Wiley v. Sinkler, 1-79
U. S. 58. In that case the action was brought in a Circuit
Court of the United States against state election officers to
recover damages in the sum of twenty-five hundred dollars for
an alleged unlawful rejection of plaintiff's vote at a Federal
election. A demurrer was filed to the complaint. One of the
grounds of the demurrer was that the court had no jurisdiction
of the action, because it did not affirmatively appear on the
face of the complaint that a Federal question was involved.
The demurrer, however, was sustained, not because of the want
of jurisdiction, but solely upon the ground that the complaint
did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
The cause was brought directly to this court, under that provision of the act of March 3, 1891, which confers power to review
the judgment or decree of a Circuit Court, among others, in
any case involving the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States. In this court the contention was
renewed that the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction, and
this contention involved necessarily also a denial of the power
of this court to review, since the right directly to do so was
sustainable alone upon the ground that the cause was one involving the construction or application of the Constitution of
the United States. The argument advanced to sustain the
asserted want of jurisdiction was this, that as the Constitution
of the United States did not confer the right of suffrage upon
any one, but the same was a privilege which the elector enjoyed
under the constitution and laws of the State in which he was
entitled to vote, therefore the denial of the right to vote at an
election for a member of Congress did not and could not involve
the construction or application of the Constitution of the United
States. The court, however, decided otherwise, and, speaking
through Mr. Justice Gray, said that the case "involved the con-

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

struction and application of the Constitution of the United
States;" that "the right to vote for members of Congress of
the United States . .
has its foundation in the Constitution of the United States;" that "the Circuit Court of the
United States has jurisdiction, concurrent with the courts of
the State, of any action under the Constitution, laws or treaties
of the United States, in which the matter in dispute exceeds the
sum or value of $2000;" and that, the action being "brought
against election officers to recover damages for their rejection
of the plaintiff's vote for a member of the House of Representatives of the United States, the complaint, by alleging that the
plaintiff was, at the time, under the constitution and laws of
the State of South Carolina and the Constitution and laws of
the United States, a duly qualified elector of the State, shows
that the action is brought under the Constitution and laws of
the United States." In concluding its examination of the question of jurisdiction, it was declared that "the Circuit Court,
therefore, clearly had jurisdiction of this action." The conclusion thus expressed, by necessary implication, decided the
power of this court to review, which would not have been obtained, unless jurisdiction of the Circuit Court had been found
to rest on the constitutional right.
It is manifest from the context of the opinion in the case just
referred to that the conclusion that the cause was one arising
under the Constitution of the United States was predicated on
the conception that the action sought the vindication or protection of the right to vote for a member of Congress, a right,
as declared in Exjarte Ycarbrough, 110 U. S.655, 664, "fundamentally based upon the Constitution of the United States,
which created the office of member of Congress, and declared
that it should be elective, and pointed out the means of ascertaining who should be electors." That is to say, the ruling
was that the case was equally one arising under the Constitution
or laws of the United States, whether the illegal act complained
of arose from a charged violation of some specific provision of
the Constitution or laws of the United States, or from the violation of a state law which affected the exercise of the right to
vote for a member of Congress, since the Constitution of the

SWAFFORD v. TEMPLETON.
Opinion of the Court.

United States had adopted, as the qualifications of electors for
members of Congress, those prescribed by the State for electors
of the most numerous branch of the legislature of the State.
It results from what has just been said that the court erred
in dismissing the action for want of jurisdiction, since the right
which it was claimed had been unlawfully invaded was one in
the very nature of things arising under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, and that this inhered in the very
substance of the claim. It is obvious from an inspection of the
certificate that the court, in dismissing for want of jurisdiction,
was controlled by what it deemed to be the want of merit in the
averments which were made in the complaint as to the violation
of the Federal right. But as the very nature of the controversy
was Federal, and, therefore, jurisdiction existed, whilst the
opinion of the court as to the want of merit in the cause of
action might have furnished ground for dismissing for that
reason, it afforded no sufficient ground for deciding that the
action was not one arising under the Constitution and laws of
the United States.
True, it has been repeatedly held that, on error from a state
court to this court, where the Federal question asserted to be
contained in the record is manifestly lacking all color of merit,
the writ of error should be dismissed. •JAew Orleans Waterworks Co. v. Louisiana, ante, 336, and authorities cited.
This doctrine, however, relates to questions arising on writs of
error from state courts where, aside from the Federal status of
the parties to the action or the inherent nature of the Federal
right which is sought to be vindicated, jurisdiction is to be determined by ascertaining whether the record raises a bonafde
Federal question. In that class of cases not only this court
may, but it is its duty to, determine whether in truth and in
fact a real Federal question arises on the record. And it is true,
also, as observed in New Orleans Waterworks Co. v. -ouisiana,
supra, that a similar principle is applied in analogous cases
originally brought in a court of the United States. Ne.Cain v.
Des A.oines, 174 U. S.168; St. Joseph & Grand Island Railroad v. Steele, 167 U. S. 659. But the doctrine referred to has
no application to a case brought in a Federal court where the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

very subject-matter of the controversy is Federal, however
much wanting in merit may be the averments which it is
claimed establish the violation of the Federal right. The distinction between the cases referred to and the one at bar is that
which must necessarily exist between controversies concerning
rights which are created by the Constitution or laws of the
United States, and which consequently are in their essence
Federal and controversies concerning rights not conferred by
the Constitution or laws of the United States, the contention
respecting which may or may not involve a Federal question
depending upon what is the real issue to be decided or the substantiality of the averments as to the existence of the rights
which it is claimed are Federal in character. The distinction
finds apt illustration in the decisions of this court holding that
suits brought by or against corporations chartered by acts of
Congress are cases per se of Federal cognizance. Osborn v.
U. S. Bank, 9 Wheat. 817; Texas & Pacific Y. R. v. Cody, 166

U. S. 606. It may not be doubted that if an action be brought
in a Circuit Court of the United States by such a corporation,
there would be jurisdiction to entertain it, although the averments set out to establish the wrong complained of or the
defence interposed were unsubstantial in character. The distinction is also well illustrated by the case of Hluntington v.
Laidley, 176 U. S. 668, where, finding that jurisdiction obtained
in a Circuit Court, this court held that it was error to dismiss
the action for want of jurisdiction because it was deemed that
the record established that the cause of action asserted was not
well founded.
It follows that the court below erred in dismissing the action
for want of jurisdiction. Of course, in reaching this conclusion
we must not be understood as expressing any opinion as to the
sufficiency of the declaration.
The judgment of the Ci'rcuit Cou't is 'reversedand the action
is 'emanded for further proceedings, in conformity with
this opinion; and it is so ordered.

