STOCKARD v. MIORGAN.
Statement of the Case.

STOCKARD v. MORGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No 195. Submitted March 19, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.
Giving to the statute of Tennessee the same meaning that was given to it
by the Supreme Court of that State, which this court is bound to do, it
is held that it violates the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution
of the United States.
All the cases cited in the opinion of the court deny the right of a State
to tax people representing owners of property outside the State for the
privilege of soliciting orders within it, as agents of such owners, for property to be shipped to persons within the State.
Fcklen v. Shelby County Taxing District, 145 U. S. 1, distinguished from
this case.
Although a State has general power to tax individuals and property within
its jurisdiction, yet it has no power to tax interstate commerce, even in
the person of a resident of the State.

THis is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of

Tennessee, brought to review a judgment of that court reversing a judgment of the Court of Chancery of Hamilton County
in favor of complainants, and dismissing their bill.
The complainants sought to enjoin the collection of a tax imposed upon them under a statute of Tennessee, upon the ground
that they were not liable for the tax because they were agents

and brokers exclusively for the sale of the property of nonresident principals, and did no business of any kind for residents

of the State. They also averred that the state statute, properly
construed, did not include their business, but if it did, it was
void as contravening the Federal Constitution in its interstate
commerce clause.
The defendants by answer averred that they sought to collect
the tax under the authority of the statute of the State of Tennessee, providing for the collection of a privilege tax on the occupation of the complainants as merchandise brokers, and that
such statute was valid.
Other parties similarly situated commenced suits against the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

defendants to obtain like relief. By an agreement, which was
approved by the court, all the cases were consolidated under
the style of-Stockard & Jones v. Aforgan and others, under which
title it was agreed that they should thereafter proceed as one
case.
The case came to trial in the Chancery Court upon the following agreed statement of facts:
"In this consolidated cause the following agreement is made
as to the facts relating to the matters in controversy, viz.:
"It is agreed that the several complainants in the original
bills, to wit, J. H. McReynolds, Stockard & Jones, W. G. Oehmig, T. lVi. Carothers and J. H. Allison are residents of Hamilton County, Tennessee.
"That said J. H. McReynolds has been carrying on business
in Chattanooga, said county and State, during the present year,
1900; that said Stockard & Jones, W. G. Oehmig, T. M. Carothers and J. H. Allison have been carrying on business in said
city during the years 1897, 1898, 1899 and 1900.
"That the character of said business so carried on by the respective complainants, or the manner of conducting the business of each, is and has been as follows:
"The complainant, as the representative of non-resident parties, firms or corporations, solicits orders for goods from jobbers
or wholesale dealers in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and when such
orders are obtained sends them to his non-resident principal or
principals. If an order is accepted the goods are shipped by
such non-resident principal or principals to the local jobber or
wholesale dealer. Up to the time of the sale the goods in all
instances belong to the non-resident principal or principals, and
are shipped to the State of Tennessee from another State.
"In making sales or soliciting orders for the goods the complainant sometimes exhibits samples to the local jobber or wholesale dealer and sometimes takes the orders without showing a
sample.
"Unless complainant has been previously authorized by the
principal or principals to sell at a fixed price, the orders are
taken subject to acceptance or rejection by such non-resident
principal or principals, who own the goods.

STOCKARD v. MORGAN.
Statement of the Case.

"At the end of each month, or at stated periods, the complainant is paid a commission by such non-resident principal or
principals for goods previously sold on accepted orders. No
commission is paid on orders taken but rejected. Complainant
does not receive for his services any pay or salary from any
local jobber or dealer or resident of Tennessee, nor does be assume to represent, or represent or hold himself out as representing, any resident of Tennessee or negotiate any sales of
goods for residents of Tennessee. His principals are all residents of other States of the United States, and the goods sold
are shipped from such other State to the State of Tennessee for
delivery to buyers who reside in Tennessee.
"The complainant has an office or Iheadquarteis' in Chattanooga, Tenn., where he keeps samples, stationery and other
articles; but he travels around on foot daily or frequently in
drumming or soliciting orders for goods, as before stated. His
principals are specific parties, firms or corporations, all nonresidents of Tennessee and residents of other States in the United
States, and he does not represent or hold himself out as representing the public in general, or negotiate or sell for any resident of Tennessee.
"The defendants and solicitors for the State of Tennessee
and Hamilton County contend that, under the facts, the complainants are ' merchandise brokers,' and each of them is bound
for privilege taxes undelP the laws of Tennessee.
"That J. H. McReynolds should pay a privilege tax for 1900.
to the State of $20.00, and to the county of $20.00.
"That Stockard & Jones should pay to the State $20.00 for
each of the years 1897, 1898, 1899 and 1900, and a like sum for
each of said years to the county of Hamilton.
"That each of the other complainants owe the same sums as
Stockard & Jones.
"That all of the complainants should be held for proper penalties, costs and attorneys' fees if they are held liable for such
taxes.
"The complainants contend that they are engaged exclusively in interstate commerce and are not bound for such privilege taxes; further, that the revenue laws of Tennessee appli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

cable to ' merchandise brokers' do not include these complainants,
so as make them subject to privilege taxes; but even if such
laws do include complainants, yet they are inoperative and void
as against complainants, who are engaged solely in interstate
commerce."
By agreement of the parties two questions only were argued
in the state court: (1) whether or not complainants were
merchandise brokers and subject by statute to tax as such;
(2) whether or not their business constituted interstate commerce, and therefore was beyond the reach of the State's taxing
power.
The chancellor held that the complainants were not liable
for the privilege tax and enjoined its collection perpetually, and
adjudged the costs against Hamilton County. From the judgment so entered the defendants appealed to the Supreme Court
of the State, which, as stated, reversed the judgment and dismissed the bill, holding the complainant's business was covered
by the statute, and that it did not violate the Constitution of
the United States.
.Mr. Robert Pritchardfor plaintiffs in error.
and AT,. R. P. JFoodardwere on his brief.

.Xi'. J.B. Sizer

.Xr'. George 1. Picle for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case we are bound to give the same meaning to the
state statute that was given to it by the Supreme Court of the
State, and the question which remains for us to decide is, whether
as so construed the statute violates any provision of the Federal
Constitution.
We think it violates the interstate commerce clause of the
Constitution of the United States, and that this court has in
several cases decided the principle which invalidates the statute
so far as it affects the business of the complainants. The principle is contained in the cases of Brown v. .faryland, 12 Wheat.

STOCKARD v. MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

419, and Welton v. Xfissouri, 91 U. S. 275. Subsequently the
case of Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District,120 U. S. 489, was
decided, which is one of the leading cases upon the subject now
in hand, and we think that it is decisive of the case before us.
That case was tried upon an agreed statement of facts as follows:
"Sabine Robbins is a citizen and resident of Cincinnati, Ohio,
, 1884-, was engaged in the business
day of
and on the
of drumming in the taxing district of Shelby County, Tenn.;
i. e., soliciting trade by the use of samples for the house or firm
for which he worked as a drummer, said firm being the firm of
'Rose, Robbins & Co.,' doing business in Cincinnati, and all
the members of said firm being citizens and residents of Cincinnati, Ohio. While engaged in the act of drumming for said
firm, and for the claimed offence of not having taken out the
required license for doing said business, the defendant, Sabine
Robbins, was arrested by one of the Memphis or taxing district
police force, and carried before the Hon. D. P. Hadden, president of the taxing district, and fined for the offence of drumming without a license. It is admitted the firm of 'Rose,
Robbins & Co.' are engaged in the selling of paper, writing
materials and such articles as are used in the book stores of the
taxing district of Shelby County, and that it was a line of such
articles for the sale of which the said defendant herein was
drumming at the time of his arrest."
The court held upon these facts that the statute of Tennessee
of 1881, enacting that "all drummers and all persons not having a regular licensed house of business in the taxing district
'of Shelby County,' offering for sale, or selling goods, wares or
merchandise therein by sample, shall be required to pay to the
county trustee the sum of $10 per week, or $25 per month, for
such privilege," was void as against Robbins.
The opinion of the court was delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley, in the course of which he said (page 401):
"In a word, it may be said, that in the matter of interstate
commerce the United States are but one country, and are and
must be subject to one system of regulations, and not to a multitude of systems. The doctrine of the freedom of that com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

merce, except as regulated by Congress, is so firmly established
that it is unnecessary to enlarge further upon the subject. In
view of these fundamental princilles, which are to govern our
decision, we may approach the question submitted to us in the
present case, and inquire whether it is competent for a State to
levy a tax or impose any other restriction upon the citizens or
inhabitants of other States, for selling or seeking to sell their
goods in such State before they are introduced therein. Do not
such restrictions affect the very foundation of interstate trade?
How is a manufacturer, or a merchant, of one State to sell his
goods in another State, without in some way obtaining orders
therefor? Must he be compelled to send them at a venture,
without knowing whether there is any demand for them? This
may, undoubtedly, be safely done with regard to some products
for which there is always a market and a demand, or where the
course of trade has established a general and unlimited demand.
A raiser of farm produce in iNew Jersey or Connecticut, or a
manufacturer of leather or wooden ware, may, perhaps, safely
take his goods to the city of New York and be sure of finding
a stable and reliable market for them. But there are hundreds,
perhaps thousands, of articles which no person would think of
exporting to another State without first procuring an order for
them. It is true, a merchant or manufacturer in one State may
erect or hire a warehouse or store in another State, in which to
place his goods, and await the chances of being able to sell
them. But this would require a warehouse or store in every
State with which he might desire to trade. Surely, he cannot
be compelled to take this inconvenient and expensive course.
In certain branches of business he may adopt it with advantage.
Many manufacturers do open houses or places of business in
other States than those in which they reside, and send their
goods there to be kept on sale. But this is a matter of convenience, and not of compulsion, and would neither suit the convenience nor be within the ability of many others engaged in
the same kind of business, and would be entirely unsuited to
many branches of business. In these cases, then, what shall the
merchant or manufacturer do who wishes to sell his goods in
other States? Alust he sit still in his factory or warehouse, and

STOCKARD v. MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

wait for the people of those States to come to him?

This would

be a silly and ruinous proceeding. The only way, and the one,
perhaps, which most extensively prevails, is to obtain orders
from persons residing or doing business in those other States.
But how is the merchant or manufacturer to secure such orders?
If he may be taxed by such States for doing so, who shall limit
the tax? It may amount to prohibition. To say that such a
tax is not a burden upon interstate commerce is to speak at
least unadvisedly and without due attention to the truth of
things."
And again at page 496:
"But it will be said that a denial of this power of taxation
will interfere with the rights of the State to tax business pursuits and callings carried on within its limits, and its rights to
require licenses for carrying on those which are declared to be
privileges. This may be true to a certain extent; but only in
those cases in which the States themselves, as well as individual
citizens, are subject to the restraints of the higher law of the
Constitution. And this interference will be very limited in its
operation. It will only prevent the levy of a tax, or the requirement of a license, for making negotiations in the conduct
of interstate commerce; and it may well be asked where the
State gets authority for imposing burdens on that branch of
business any more than for imposing a tax on the business of
importing from foreign countries, or even on that of postmaster or United States marshal. The mere calling the business
of a drummer a privilege cannot make it so. Can the state
legislature make it a Tennessee privilege to carry on the business of importing goods from foreign countries? If not, has it
any better right to make it a state privilege to carry on interstate commerce? It seems to be forgotten, in argument, that
the people of this country are citizens of the United States, as
well as of the individual States, and that they have some rights
under the Constitution and laws of the former independent of
the latter, and free from any interference or restraint from
them."
Other cases followed the Robbins case, among them, Philadeyhic & Southern Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.
vOL. OLxxV-3

OCTOBER TERM1, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

326; Leloap v. Port of .Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Asher v. Texas,
128 U. S. 129; Stouterbul.gh v. Jlenniec, 129 U. S. 141 ; J1eCall
v. California, 136 U. S. 10-4; Noifolk & ]|restern Railroad
Co. v. Pennsylvania,136 U. S. 114; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141
U. S. 47. These cases exhibit different phases of the same general principle, but all follow that principle as announced in the
Robbins case, and deny the right of the State to tax people
representing the owners of property outside of the State, for
the privilege of soliciting orders within it as agents of such
owners for property to be shipped to persons within the State.
We think they cover the facts of the case at bar and render
the statute as construed by the state court invalid so far as it
affects the business of the complainants described in the agreed
statement of facts above set forth.
The defendants in error, admitting the finality of the decisions above referred to in regard to the questions therein decided, claim that they do not in truth cover the case before us,
and they urge that it is controlled by Fickle v. Shelby County
Taxing -District,145 U. S. 1. A reference to that case shows
important and material distinctions of fact which render it unlike the one now before us. The opinion of the court was delivered by the present Chief Justice, who, while recognizing

and approving the Robbins and other similar cases, distinguished them from the one then under review. In the course
of his opinion he said (page 20):
"In the case at bar the complainants were established and
did business in the taxing district as general merchandise brokers,
and were taxed as such under section nine of chapter ninety-six
of the Tennessee laws of 1881, which embraced a different subject-matter from section sixteen of that chapter. For the year
1887 they paid the $50 tax charged, gave bond to report their
gross commissions at the end of the year, and thereupon received, and throughout the entire year held, a general and unrestricted license to do business as such brokers. They were
thereby authorized to do any and all kinds of commission business and became liable to pay the privilege tax in question,
which was fixed in part, and in part graduated according to the
amount of capital invested in the business, or if no capital were

STOCKARD v. MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

invested, by the amount of commissions received. Although
their principals happened during 1887, as to the one party, to
be wholly non-resident, and to the other, largely such, this fact
might have been otherwise then and afterwards, as their business was not confined to transactions for non-residents. In the
case of Robbins the tax was held, in effect, not to be a tax on
Robbins, but on his principals; while here the tax was clearly
levied upon complainants in respect of the general commission
business they conducted, and their property engaged therein,
or their profits realized therefrom."
And again (at page 24) it was said:
"We agree with the Supreme Court of the State that the
complainants have taken out licenses under the law in question
to do a general commission business, and having given bond
to report their commissions during the year, and to pay the
required percentage thereon, could not, when they applied for
similar licenses for the ensuing year, resort to the courts because
the municipal authorities refused to issue such licenses without
the payment of the stipulated tax. What position they would
have occupied if they had not undertaken to do a general commission business, and had taken out no licenses therefor, but had
simply transacted business for non-resident principals, is an entirely different question, which does not arise upon this record."
From these extracts from the opinion it is seen that a material fact in the case was that Ficlden had taken out a general
and unrestricted license to do business as a broker, and he was
thereby authorized to do any and all kinds of commission business, and therefore became liable to pay the privilege tax exacted. Although Ficklen's principals happened in the year
1887 to be wholly non-residents, the fact might have been otherwise, as was stated by the Chief Justice, because his business
was not confined to transactions for non-residents.
In this case the complainants did not represent or assume
to represent any residents of the State of Tennessee, and each
of the complainants represented only certain specific parties,
firms or corporations, all of whom were non-residents of Tennessee. They did no business for a general public. We attach
no importance to the fact that in the .Robbin8case the individual

OCTOBER TERM1,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

taxed resided outside of the State. lHe was taxed by reason of
his business or occupation while within it, and the tax was held
to be a tax upon interstate commerce. Nor does the fact that
the complainants acted for more than one person residing outside of the State affect the question. If while so acting and
soliciting orders within the State for the sale of property for
one non-resident of the State, the person so soliciting was exempt from taxation on account of that business, because the tax
would be upon interstate commerce, we do not see how he could
become liable for such tax because he did business for more than
one individual, firm or corporation, all being non-residents of
the State of Tennessee. The fact that the State or the court
may call the business of an individual, when employed by more
than one person outside of the State, to sell their merchandise
upon commission, a "brokerage business," gives no authority
to the State to tax such a business as complainants.' The name
does not alter the character of the transaction, nor prevent the
tax thus laid from being a tax upon interstate commerce. As
was said by Mr. Justice Bradley, in the Robbins case, supra,
"The mere calling the business of a drummer a privilege cannot make it so. Can the state legislature make it a Tennessee
privilege to carry on the business of importing goods from foreign countries? If not, has it any better right to make it a
state privilege to carry on interstate commerce?" It is still
a carrying on of interstate commerce, whether the party is acting for one or more principals residing outside of the State and
selling their goods through his procurement, acting for them
as their agent.
We cannot see that the Ficklen case rules the one before us.
Although it is plain from the opinion of the Chief Justice that
there was not the slightest intention of casting any doubt upon
the correctness of the decisions in the Robins and other cases
above cited, it is subsequently stated in Brennan v. Titusville,
153 U. S. 289, that the case of Ficklen "is no departure from
the rule of decision so firmly established by the prior cases."
In speaking of the distinguishing features of the .Ficklen case,
Mr. Justice Brewer, in delivering the opinion of the court in
Brennan v. Titusville, said (at page 307): "In other words, the

STOCKARD v. MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

tax imposed was for the privilege of doing a general commission busin6ss within the State, and whatever were the results
pecuniarily to the licensees, or the manner in which they carried on business, the fact remained unchanged that the State
had, for a stipulated price, granted them this privilege. It was
thought by a majority of the court that to release them from
the obligations of their bonds on account of the accidental results of the year's business was refining too much, and that the
plaintiffs who had sought the privilege of engaging in a general
business should be bound by the contracts which they had made
with the State therefor."
Although it is said in the opinion of the state court herein
that the thing taxed is the occupation of merchandise brokerage, and not the business of those employing the brokers, yet
we have seen from the cases already cited that when the tax
is applied to an individual within the State selling the goods of
his principal who is a non-resident of the State, it is in effect a
tax upon interstate commerce, and that fact is not in anywise
altered by calling the tax one upon the occupation of the individual residing within the State while acting as the agent of a
non-resident principal. The tax remains one upon interstate
commerce, under whatever name it may be designated.
That such a tax amounts to an invasion of the commerce
clause of the Constitution of the United States is held in Stratford v. City Council of Montgonwry, 110 Alabama, 619, in a
most satisfactory opinion by Chief Justice Brickell. In speaking of the tax under the Alabama statute, he said (p. 628):
"While, as we have shown, the business of the defendant was
general, so as to constitute him a broker, it by no means follows that it required he should also take local business. He
might, as he did, confine himself to the interstate business and
still be a 'broker,' without becoming liable to the tax." The
statute of Alabama is similar to the one in Tennessee, and the
facts in the above case are almost identical with those agreed
upon herein.
Although the State has general power to tax individuals and
property within its jurisdiction, yet it has no power to tax interstate commerce, even in the person of a resident of the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

We regard this case as within the Robbins and other similar
cases above referred to, and it follows that the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Tennessee, holding the complainants liable to
pay the tax demanded, was erroneous.
Thejudgment of that cou-rt is, therefore, reversed,and the case
remanded forfurther proceedings not inconsistent with the
opinion of this eourt. It is so ordered.
M R. JUSTICE GRAY took no part in the decision of this

case.

SWERINGEN v. ST. LOUIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 187. Argued 'March4, 5, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.
The question involved in this case upon the merits is, in substance, whether
the plaintiff is entitled to the alluvion caused by the recession of the
Mississippi River to the extent of many hundred feet east of the point
where it flowed in 1852, at the time when the plaintiff's predecessor took
title to the property by virtue of a patent from the United States. The
trial court held she was, and the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri
held she was not. In the opinion of this court the case involves no Federal question, and it is dismissed on the ground of lack of jurisdiction.

THE plaintiff in error, being the plaintiff below, obtained
judgment in the state Circuit Court for the city of St. Louis
for the recovery of certain land described in the judgment.
Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri
this judgment was reversed, 151 Missouri, 348, and the plaintiff has brought the case here by writ of error.
The action was ejectment for land described in the petition,
which also set up a claim for the rents and profits. The answer
of the city denied all the allegations of the petition, set up adverse possession for ten years and acquiescence on the part of
the plaintiff in the possession and use of the premises by the
city as and for a public wharf. The property described in the

