OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

TALBOT v. SIOUX CITY FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
ERROr TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 164. Argued March 17, 18, 1902.-Decided April 14, 1902.
The defendant in error moved to dismiss the action on the ground that no
Federal question was decided by the Supreme Court of Iowa. Held,
that the motion should be overruled, as the plaintiff explicitly based his
right of action on Rev. Stat. §§ 5197, 5198, and as the judgment of the
trial court, and that of the Supreme Court of the State, denied such
right, and this court therefore has jurisdiction.
In these statutes relating to illegal interest, it is the interest charged, and
not the interest to which a forfeiture might be enforced that the statute
regards as illegal, and if interest greater than the legal rate is charged,
it may be relinquished, and recovery had of the legal rate.

THIS action was brought by the plaintiff in error in the District Court of Iowa, in and for Woodbury County, under section 5198 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, to
recover twice the amount of interest alleged to have been due
the defendant by the plaintiff on account of certain transactions
had between it and the plaintiff. The District Court gave
judgment against the plaintiff, and the Supreme Court of the
State affirmed the judgment. The Chief Justice of the State
allowed this writ of error.
The defendant in error was at the time of the transactions between it and the plaintiff a national bank. Plaintiff did business
with it from Januar y 1, 1886, until March, 1890, the instances
of which are detailed in a pleading which occupies fifty-six
pages of the record. During that time deposits were made by
plaintiff with the bank, drafts were drawn by him, and his own
and the promissory notes of others were given to the bank.
Finally the transactions culminated according to the petition
as follows:
"That on or about the 15th clay of 'Mareh, 1890, all of the
indebtedness evidenced by said charges, account and notes then
claimed by defendant against plaintiff was incorporated into

TALBOT v. SIOUX" CITY FIRST NAT'L BANK.

173

Statement of the Case.

certain bonds of that date made and executed and delivered by
plaintiff to the Union Loan and Trust Company of Sioux City,
Iowa, as trustee for defendant, which said bonds were in the
sum of $1000 each, in all one hundred bonds, into which at that
time and subsequently all of said indebtedness, except that represented by said note for $3040.38, executed and delivered to
the defendant on the 17th day of June, 1890, was merged. That
said bonds were secured by mortgage on certain lands situated
in the counties of Woodbury and Plymouth, in the State of
Iowa. On or about the 3d day of March, 1892, a suit in equity
was commenced in the District Court of Woodbury County,
Iowa, and a judgment and decree was entered against plaintiff
on or about the 23d day of December, 1893, for the sum of
$94,578.90, being the entire indebtedness due from plaintiff to
defendant as entered by said court upon the said bonds and
said note for $3040.38. And on the 19th day of March, 1894,
upon the execution sale of the premises mortgaged to secure
said indebtedness, the defendant knowingly took and received
the entire sum of said judgment, including all the usurious interest before that time, knowingly charged in the said account
for overdrafts upon all of the said notes and bonds, in all the
sum of $47,020.37. That the items of interest upon the overdrafts aforesaid, charged upon account against plaintiff, were
so charged without any contract therefor, at the time of such
charging were each and all at a higher rate of interest than
that allowed by law of Iowa, corrupt and usurious, and in violation of sections 5197 and 5198 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States. The items of interest upon overdrafts aforesaid,
charged by defendant and carried into the notes aforesaid, were
knowingly charged, contracted for by their incorporation in
said notes, reserved, taken and received by the defendant as a
part of the entire amount of interest paid by the plaintiff and
knowingly received by defendant, in the total amount of money
collected upon said judgment and decree, and knowingly charging, contracting, reserving, taking and receiving of which was a
corrupt and usurious transaction, in violation of sections 5197
and 5198 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and occurred within two years prior to the commencement of this ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tion. That the entire amount of interest as aforesaid, knowingly
charged, contracted for, taken and received was in amount the
sum of $-17,020.37, whereby defendant became indebted to
plaintiff in the sum of $94,040.74, no part of which has been
paid."
The answer of the defendant admitted substantially the allegations of the petition detailing the transactions between it
and the plaintiff, but alleged that it charged plaintiff only the
interest permitted by the laws of Iowa, "and that if at times,
through the inadvertence or mistake of the clerks and accountants of the bank, the bank charged more than such
proper rate, at other times, through similar inadvertence and
mistake, a less amount was charged, so that during the course
of its business with the plaintiff, the total amount charged to
him as interest upon overdrafts was two thousand seventyeight dollars and eighty cents ($2078.80), while at the legal
rate under the laws of Iowa, and according to the custom of
bankers, there was due from the plaintiff to the defendant
the sum of two thousand ninety-six dollars and sixty cents
($2096.60), and there was no intention to charge usurious interest at any time."
The answer also admitted that all the unpaid indebtedness of
plaintiff remaining was included in the bonds of plaintiff, which
was secured by a mortgage upon his real estate as alleged, and
that the mortgage was foreclosed and the property sold, but denied that any interest upon the overdrafts was paid by the sale,
but averred "that before the rendition of the judgment and
decree in the said foreclosure proceedings, the court ordered
deducted from the amount found due all sums charged as interest upon overdrafts, which was in fact deducted, and such
sums were not included in the judgment and decree, and the
defendant denies that on the sale of the property of the plaintiff on the said judgment foreclosure, any of the sums of interest upon overdrafts were thereby paid, but on the contrary
alleges that there is still a large deficit on the said judgment,
amounting to about the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000),
which was not paid by the sale of the said property, and has
not since been paid."

TALBOT v. SIOUX CLTY FIRST NAT'L BANK.

175

Statement of the Case.

The answer also alleged that if usurious interest was paid by
the plaintiff "it was so paid more than two years prior to the
time of the commencement of this suit, and therefore said suit
is barred by lapse of time."
The answer also alleged a settlement between defendant and
the plaintiff on the 17th of June, 1890, in pursuance of which
the plaintiff delivered to the defendant $61,000 in the bonds
already mentioned, and his promissory note for $3048.38, and
"that the said bonds and note were received by the defendant
in full payment and settlement of all existing liability and indebtedness on the part of the plaintiff to the defendant, and
thereby the plaintiff paid to this defendant all sums charged
for interest or otherwise, and that the said settlement took place
more than two years prior to the bringing of this suit, and this
suit is therefore barred by limitation."
The answer also pleaded the foreclosure suit in bar.
The plaintiff filed a reply traversing the allegations of the
answer.
The case was referred to a referee to report the facts. It is
not necessary to give the report of the referee in full. He
found that defendant had charged interest on plaintiff's overdrafts to the amount of $2064, and that the average rate of
interest charged was 10.22 per cent, and the total amount of
interest charged in excess of 10 per cent was $72. That the
interest on the overdrafts was included in the various notes
given by the plaintiff prior to March 15, 1890 ; "and all of the
indebtedness of plaintiff to defendant, arising or growing out
of said bank account from January 1, 1886, to March 15, 1890,
was evidenced by said notes, but said notes were not given in
payment of said indebtedness."
The referee also found the execution of the negotiable bonds
by plaintiff, and the mortgage to secure the same as alleged in
the proceedings, the foreclosure of the mortgage, and that plaintiff, "in his answer and amendments in said case set up that
excessive interest had been charged on overdrafts by the First
National Bank, and said interest had been included in the notes
afterwards given, and said notes were merged in the bonds in
suit, and asked that an accounting be had of the amount of ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

cessive interest charged on said overdrafts, and that the amount
so found be deducted froln the amount due on the bonds; and
said D. H. Talbot, in support of his allegation, introduced evidence showing the amount of interest charged on said overdrafts; and in the determination of the case the court found
that excessive interest on overdrafts to the amount of two thousand and sixty-four dollars ($2064.00) had been charged the
plaintiff, and ordered that said two thousand and sixty-four dollars ($2064.O0), with interest at the rate named in the bonds,
amounting to five hundred ninety-five dollars and forty-six
cents ($595.46), making a total of two thousand six hundred
nine dollars and forty-six cents ($2609.46), be deducted from the
amount due on the bonds, and a decree was entered in said case
for the amount due on said bonds, less said sum of two thousand
six hundred nine dollars and forty-six cents ($2609.46).
"Ninth. That in said cause a decree for ninety-four thousand
five hundred seventy-eight dollars and ninety cents ($94,578.90)
was rendered, of which forty-nine thousand seventy dollars and
forty-seven cents ($49,070.47) was principal, thirty thousand
nine hundred eighty-eight dollars and fifty-two cents (830,988.52)
was interest and fourteen thousand five hundred nineteen dollars and ninety-one cents ($14,519.91) was the amount paid on
prior liens, taxes and interest on same by plaintiff in that action.
"Tenth. That the sheriff, under an execution issued on said
decree, sold March 19, 1894, plaintiff's property, amounting to
thirty-six thousand four hundred thirty-nine dollars and fifteen
cents, ($36,439.15) ; and on May 19, 1894, under said execution
sold property amounting to fifty thousand and sixty dollars
($50,060), and on .uly 2, 1894, sold under said execution property amounting to twelve hundred dollars ($1200.00), making
a total of eighty-seven thousand six hundred ninety-nine dollars
and fifteen cents ($87,699.15) realized from sheriff's sale of said
land under said decree, and leaving a balance, including the interest to date of sale, of eleven thousand one hundred fortyone dollars and five cents ($11,141.05) unpaid on said judgment
and decree, which balance, with interest, has not been paid.
"Eleventh. That the interest on overdrafts, not having been

TALBOT v. SIOUX CITY FIRST NAT'L BANK.

177

Statement of the Case.

included in said decree, was not paid by the sale of plaintiff's
land Under said execution.
"Twelfth. That plaintiff's overdrafts, including interest thereon, was paid June 17, 1890, more than four (4) years before the
commencement of this action."
As conclusions of law the referee found as follows:
"First. That interest on overdraft was excessive, but not illegal, or usurious, and did not taint the subsequent debt, notes
and bonds, of which it formed a part of the consideration.
"Second. That the' custom of bankers to compute interest
on a commercial basis of thirty days to the month, making
three hundred and sixty days to the year, under the tables, is
legal.
"Third. That plaintiff's cause of action occurred June 17th,
and this suit is barred under section 5198 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, on which this action is based.
"Fourth. That the matter in this suit was adjudicated between the same parties in the case of the Union Loan & Trust
aonany v. D. I Talbot, and that relief could have been
granted, and plaintiff is now estopped from maintaining this
suit.
"Fifth. That interest charged plaintiff on overdraft was not
included in and did not form a part of the decree in the case
of the Union Loan & Trust Compoany v. D. H. Talbot, and
was not paid by said sheriff's sale of plaintiff's property under
execution issued on that decree."
He recommended that judgment be entered dismissing plaintiff's petition, and that defendant have judgment for costs.
That plaintiff filed exceptions to the report, and the matter
came on to be heard March 19, 1896, and the court adjudged
that the conclusions of the referee were correct; that the matters in the suit had been adjudicated in the former action; that
plaintiff's cause of action had accrued June 17, 1890, and that
his suit was barred by the statute of the United States upon
which the action was based, and plaintiff's petition was dismissed.
The Supreme Court of the State, in passing on the case, affirmed the findings of fact of the referee, but said "that it was
VOL. cLxxxv-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

entirely clear under the evidence that all interest charged on
overdrafts in excess of six per cent was a greater rate of interest than was allowed by the laws of this State."
The court further said:
"We have seen that unless the plaintiff has paid the illegal
interest he is not entitled to recover it in this action. If it may
be said that the delivery of the sixty-one bonds on June 17,
1890, was a payment, this action is barred, as it was not commenced ' within two years from the time the usurious transactions occurred,' having been commenced March 8, 1895.
"The interest on overdrafts was surely not paid by the sale
of the land, for, as we have seen, it was not included in the
decree. As we view the case, we think the illegal charges of
interest have never been paid, and therefore the plaintiff is
not entitled to recover in this action.
"IV. There is some dispute as whether plaintiff set up these
charges of illegal interest in the action to foreclose the trust
deed so as to constitute a former adjudication. That he set it
up and that it was adjudicated we have no doubt. True, it was
not set up with the same fullness and elaboration as in this case.
Unquestionably it is matter which might have been plead in
that case, and under a familiar rule the plaintiff must be held
to have asserted all available defences to that action.
"V. Said section 5198 provides that actions to recover back
illegal interest paid must be commenced ' within two years from
the time the usurious transactions occurred.' Now, whether or
not we call the delivery of the bonds a payment, it is evident
that the usurious transaction occurred on and before June 17,
1890, and it follows that this action is barred. These questions
are so largely questions of fact and rest upon familiar and undisputed principles of law that we do not find it necessary to
refer to any of the many authorities cited.
"The lower court was fully warranted in affirming the findings of fact as reported by the referee. While we do not concur in the conclusions of law that the interest on overdrafts was
excessive, but not illegal or usurious, and that the custom of
banks to compute interest on the commercial basis of thirty

TALBOT v. SIOUX CITY FIRST NAT'L BANK.

1 19

Opinion of the Court.

days to the month is legal, still it does not follow that the judgment of the District Court is erroneous.
"It is correct, notwithstanding the charge of illegal interest,
because the plaintiff has never paid that interest, but has-been
allowed the full benefit of the facts in the foreclosure case and
because this action was not brought within two years of the
time the usurious transaction occurred."
The assignments of error present the following contentions:
That the agreement of June 1'(, 1890, in pursuance of which
the negotiable bonds of plaintiff were delivered to the defendant, did not constitute a payment of the interest on the overdrafts theretofore charged, but that the sales in the foreclosure
suit May 19 and July 2, 1894, constituted such payment, and
as the action was brought within two years from the latter
dates, it was not barred; that the foreclosure suit was not i-es
judiatabecause the defence of illegal interest was based upon
the law of the State of Iowa, and not upon the Revised Statutes
of the United States; that illegal interest was embraced in the
judgment in the foreclosure suit; that the deduction which was
made was only of the illegal interest on the overdrafts, and of
no other interest; that the Revised Statutes direct "a forfeiture of the entire interest," not merely of the amount of interest
paid in excess of that allowed by law; that section 5198 provides that in case the greater rate of interest has been paid, the
person so paying the sum "may recover back

.

.

.

the

amount of interest so paid."
.6'. A. A. Hoehling, Jr., and M. James K. RedingTOn for
plaintiff in error.
X?-. Asa tF. Call for defendants in error.
MR. JusricE McKENxA, after making the above statement, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
1. We are first confronted by a motion to dismiss the action
on the ground that no Federal question was decided by the
Supreme Court of Iowa. We think the motion should be over-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ruled. The plaintiff explicitly based his right of action upon
sections 5197 and 5198 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States. The judgment of the trial court and that of the Supreme Court of the State denied such right. See. 709, :Revised Statutes. This court, therefore, has jurisdiction.
2. Section 5197 authorizes a national bank to charge the rate
of interest fixed by the laws of the State in which the bank is
doing business. The consequences of a charge in excess of such
rate are expressed in section 5198 to be as follows:
"The taking, receiving or charging a rate of interest greater
than is allowed by the preceding section, when knowingly done,
shall be deemed a forfeiture of the entire interest, which the
note, bill, or other evidence of debt carries with it, or which
has been agreed to be paid thereon. In case the greater rate
of interest has been paid, the person by whom it has been paid,
or his legal representatives, may recover back, in an action in
the nature of an action of debt, twice the amount of the interest
thus paid from the association taking or receiving the same;
provided, such action is commenced within two years from the
time the usurious transaction occurred."
Two cases are provided for (1) where illegal interest has been
taken, received or charged; (2) where illegal interest has been
paid. In the first case the entire interest which the "evidence
of debt carries with it" shall be deemed forfeited. In the
second case the person who has paid "the greater rate of interest may recover twice the amount of interest thus paid."
In what way is the statute available to plaintiff? Or, rather,
in what way was it available when the foreclosure suit was
brought and in what way is it yet available? Had illegal interest been paid by plaintiff at that time or had illegal interest
been only charged by defendant? The latter is the contention
of the plaintiff, and he controverts the position taken by the
Supreme Court of Iowa, that the agreement of June 17, 1890,
constituted a payment, and that the action was barred because
not commenced within two years from that date. We may
yield, a'rguendo, to plaintiff's contention, and thereby eliminate
the statute of limitations from consideration. But nevertheless the judgment must be affirmed.

TALBOT r. SIOUX CITY FIRST NA'YL BANK.

181

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff's situation, then, at the time of the foreclosure
suit was that he was sued for illegal interest charged but not
paid, and he entered a defence to avoid its payment. He was
successful. The court found that he had been charged illegal
interest, and deducted its amount from the sum for which he
was sued. In other words, judgment was rendered against him
for the principal sum and legal interest. But he insists that
such judgment was not the full relief to which he was entitled.
To that judgment, he claims, he was entitled under the state
law which he pleaded, but that under the statutes of the United
States, which he could not plead, as he contends, he was entitled to a forfeiture of the entire interest, and as such forfeited
interest was included in the judgment it was paid by the sale
under the judgment of the property mortgaged, and a cause of
action immediately arose to recover twice the amount of that
interest so paid. We cannot assent to the contention. It is
the interest charged, not the interest to which a forfeiture might
be enforced, that the statute regards as illegal. And a forfeiture may or may not occur. Interest greater than the legal rate
may be charged, but it may be relinquished and recovery be
had of the legal rate. This was decided in lHlBrown v. ScottisA
Investment Company, 153 U. S. 318, and repeated in Savings
Society v. Aultnomah Cointy, 169 U. S. 421. Those cases also
decided that illegal interest (" the greater rate" the statute calls
it) must be paid, to be recovered back. Indeed, it is a contradiction to say that interest may be recovered back which has
not been paid, and whether it is relinquished before suit or deducted by order of the court before judgment, it is in neither
case paid by the judgment nor by the satisfaction of the judgment. The fact of payment of the illegal interest, the statute
makes a condition of the recovery of its penalty. If there can
be a substitute for such payment it cannot be found in the insufficiency of the pleading or the deficiency of the relief, in
another action.
Judgment aflivned.
MR.

JUSTICE GRAY

took no part in the decision.

