VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. v. VICKSBURG.

65

Syllabus.

fixes upon an arbitrary period of twenty-one years as that over
which the search of a purchaser or other person must extend,
and beyond which it shall not be necessary for him to look. If
for twenty-one years no payment upon or acknowledgment of
the ground rent can be shown, and no demand for payment has
been made, the act conclusively presumes a release and extinguishment of the incumbrance by the act of the parties, and
declares that the rent shall be thereafter irrecoverable." In
that case the ground rent had been reserved long before the
passage of the act of April 27, 1855, and it was held that as
twenty-one years and ten months had elapsed without the payment of rent, or demand for the same, the right to demand it
was extinguished.
So, in the present case, where no payment or demand was
shown to have been made for more than twenty-one years, it
was held that, in view of the numerous and repeated decisions,
the question must be considered at rest. Clay v. Iseminger, 187
Penn. St. 108.
Ve are, therefore, qf o2inion that the Supreme Court of Penn&ylvaniadid not err in holding that the seventh section of
the act of April 27, 1855, was constitutionally a1licable,
and its judgment is affirmed.

VICKSBURG

WATERWORKS
BURG.

COMPANY v. VICKS-

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 392. Submitted December 4, 1901.-Decided April 7, 1902.

By the act of March 18, 1886, the city of Vicksburg was authorized to provide for the erection and maintenance of a system of waterworks and the
contract made in accordance with its provision was within the power of
the city to make, and the subsequent legislation, state and municipal,
set forth in the bill, impair the contract rights of the water company,
within the protection of the Constitution of the United States unless the
city can point to some inherent want of legal validity in the contract.

VOL. CLXXXV-5

OCTOBER TER.M1, 1901.
Statement of the Case.
It is one of the most valuable features of equity jurisdiction, to anticipate
and prevent a threatened injury, where the damages would be insufficient
or irreparable; and the exercise of such jurisdiction is for the benefit of
both parties, in disclosing to the defendant that he is proceeding without
warrant of law, and in protecting the complainant from injuries which,
if inflicted, would be wholly destructive of his rights.
This cause presents a controversy so arising under the laws and Constitution of the United States as to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction.

THE Vicksburg Waterworks Company, a corporation of the
State of Mississippi, filed, in February, 1901, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, a
bill of complaint against the mayor and aldermen of the city
of Vicksburg, a municipal corporation of Mississippi. To this
bill the city filed a demurrer and certain special pleas, and subsequently moved the court for leave to withdraw the demurrer
and pleas, and for leave to file an answer alleging that said answer embodied all the matters of defence which were set forth
in said pleas and demurrer, and also a motion to dissolve a temporary injunction which had been theretofore granted.
On July 1, 1901, the court entered the following order:
"Coming on to be heard the motion to dissolve the injunction
herein, and the defendant now having moved the court for leave
to file the answer herewith presented and marked by the clerk
as filed June 21, 1901, and to withdraw the pleas and demurrers
filed April 30, 1901, it is ordered that leave be granted to file
said answer and withdraw said pleas and demurrers, but that
the question of the jurisdiction of this court to hear the matter
in controversy, raised by said answer, shall be first presented
and argued."
On July 3, 1901, the complainant moved the court to "require defendant to elect on which plea it will stand, whether
on demurrer to the whole bill or on the answer." This motion
was overruled, and on July 3, 1901, the court entered the following order and decree:
"This cause coming on to be heard upon the motion to dissolve the injunction heretofore issued in this cause, and the court
now being advised in the premises, and it appearing that there
is no Federal question involved in the controversy presented

*

VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. v.VICKSBURG.

67

Statement of the Case.

by the pleading, it is therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed
that said injunction be, and the same is hereby, dissolved, *and
that the bill of the complainant be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, and that execution issue therefor for the cost in the case."
Thereupon the complainant moved the court to "continue
the restraining order in force as granted until the appeal in this"
cause is heard by the Supreme Court of the United States or
until the further order is granted by said court."
The following order was then entered by the court:
"Upon the appeal being allowed herein it is ordered that
the temporary restraining order herein be continued until the
1st day of January, 1902, or if before then, until the decision of
the appeal herein by the Supreme Court, upon condition, however, that the complainant diligently prosecute its appeal and
file a motion at or before the next term of the Supreme Court
to advance the appeal in this cause upon the docket of the Supreme Court of the United States, and upon the further condition that the injunction bond heretofore given in this case shall
stand and continue in force for any additional liability which
may be incurred by reason of this order, the principal and sureties upon said bond, now in open court consenting thereto.
Ordered, adjudged and decreed this 3d July, 1901."
On the same day an appeal was allowed to this court, and on
July 4, 1901, the following certificate was signed by the trial
judge and filed:
"The final decree having been entered herein on the 3d day
of July, 1901, dismissing this suit and the bill, and amended and
supplemental bill therein, now, therefore, this court in pursuance of the second paragraph of the fifth section of the act of
Congress, approved March 3, 1891, and entitled 'An act to establish Circuit Courts of Appeal and to define and regulate in
certain cases the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States,
and for other purposes,' hereby certifies to the Supreme Court
of the United States for decision the question of the jurisdiction
alone of this court over this cause, whether this cause presents
a controversy which involves a Federal question under the laws
or Constitution of the United States.
"The only question which I considered and decided in dis-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

missing this suit and the bills of complaint is whether a Federal
question was involved upon the pleadings."
Afl'. S. S. Hudson and
XrM.James A. Carr for appellant.
brief.
his
on
were
Edwards
ir. A. N.
Xr. L. W. lagruder for appellees.
MR. JUsTIoE SHIRAS, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The sole question for our consideration is whether the bill, as
originally filed and as amended, presented a Federal question.
As the party plaintiff and the party defendant were both corporations and citizens of the same State, the Circuit Court of
the United States could not take jurisdiction of the controversy
between them, unless the complainant laid grounds for that jurisdiction by asserting rights arising under the Constitution or
laws of the United States', and such assertion must appear in
the complainant's statement of its own claim. .7etcalf v.
Watertown, 128 U. S. 586; State of Tennessee v. Planters'
Bank, 152 U. S. 454; Blackburn v. -PortlandXining Co., 175
U. S. 571.
It is true that the learned judge, in his certificate to this court,
inquires "whether a Federal question was involved upon the
true that the counsel for the respec1 )Zeadings." And it is also
tive parties have gone, in their briefs, into a discussion of questions of fact and law, as if the case were here on appeal from a
final decree on the merits.
But our function, in the case before us on this certificate, is
restricted to the inquiry whether, upon the allegations of the
bill of complaint, assuming them to be true in point of fact, a
Federal question is disclosed so as to give the Circuit Court
jurisdiction in a suit between citizens of the same State. If we
conclude, after an inspection of the bill, that a Federal question
is thereby presented, we must reverse the decree of the Circuit
Court below dismissing the bill, and direct that court to proceed
in the orderly exercise of its jurisdiction to determine the con-

VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. v. VICKSBURG.

69

Opinion of the Court.

troversy; if we fail to find such a question, the decree of the
Circuit Court must be affirmed.
Addressing ourselves, then, to a consideration of the contents
of the bill, original and supplemental, we encounter a very long
and somewhat confusing narrative of the facts of the case. We
do not think it necessary to state those facts in full in this opinion, but shall confine our attention to the allegations in which
questions arising under the laws or Constitution of the United
States are claimed to arise.
By an act of the legislature of the State of Mississippi, approved
on the 18th day of March, 1886, the city of Vicksburg was authorized "to provide for the erection and maintenance of a system of waterworks to supply said city with water, and to that
end to contract with a party or parties who shall build and
operate waterworks."
The city received competitive bids for the construction and
maintenance of said waterworks, and on November 18, 1886, at
a special meeting of the board of mayor and aldermen, a committee reported that the bid made by Samuel ZR. Bullock & Company, of New York was the best bid, and submitted the draft
of an ordinance, entitled "An ordinance to provide for a supply
of water to the city of Vicksburg, in Warren County, Mississippi,
and to its inhabitants, contracting with Samuel R. Bullock &
Company, their associates, successors and assigns, for a supply
of water for public use, and giving the city of Vicksburg an
option to purchase said works." This ordinance was then
adopted, in terms as follows :
"SEC. 1. That in consideration of the public benefit to be derived therefrom the exclusive right and privilege is hereby
granted for the period of thirty (30) years from the time that
this ordinance takes effect, unto Samuel R. Bullock & Company,
their associates, successors and assigns, of erecting, maintaining
and operating a system of waterworks in accordance with the
terms and provisions of this ordinance, and of using the streets,
alleys, public squares and all other public places within the corporate limits of the city of Vicksburg, Mississippi, as they now
exist or may hereafter be extended, and within such other territory as may now or hereafter be extended and within such

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

other territory as may now or hereafter be under its jurisdiction, for the purpose of laying pipes, mains and other conduits,
and erecting hydrants and other apparatus for conducting and
furnishing an adequate supply of good wholesome water to the
city of Vicksburg, Mississippi, and to its inhabitants for public
and private use, and for making repairs and extensions to the
said system from time to time during the period in which this
ordinance shall be in force.
" The said Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates,
successors and assigns, shall exercise the greatest care and diligence in the use of the said streets, alleys, public squares and
other public places, and shiall cause no unnecessary obstruction
of, or interruption to, the public travel over or upon the same,
or any injury to or interference with any pipes, mains, sewers,
which may now be lawfully located beneath the surface thereof.
"The said Sainuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates,
successors and assigns, shall take every precaution to provide
against danger to property, life and limb by reason of the exercise of the rights and privileges hereby granted, and shall
cause all excavations and obstructions to be properly lighted
and guarded at night, and after the completion of the purposes
for which the said streets, alleys, public squares and other public places may be used, they shall be restored to their former
condition as near as may be without unnecessary delay, and
they shall at their own cost and expense relay their mains and
pipes when made necessary by a change of grade in any street
ordered by the board of mayor and aldermen of said city if
there was no established grade for such street at the time said
mains and pipe were laid. On failure to restore said streets,
alleys, public squares and other public places as aforesaid, the
mayor and aldermen of the city of Vicksburg may, on reasonable notice to them by any city officer, cause the same to be
restored and recover the costs and expenses thereof from the
said Samuel R. Bullock & Co., their associates, successors and
assigns, in any court having jurisdiction of the amount.
"The said Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates,
successors and assigns, hereby agree to hold the mayor and
aldermen of the city of Yicksburg harmless from any liability

VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. v. VICKSBURG.

71

Opinion of the Court.

which may result to it by reason of any violation of this section.
"Sec. 2. The general plan of the said system of waterworks
shall be as follows:
"Mains.- The pipe system shall consist of not less than
twelve (12) miles of mains of sizes varying from sixteen inches
(16) to six (6) inches in diameter. The pipe used shall be of
the best quality of cast iron pipe and each pipe shall be tested
at its place of manufacture to a pressure of three hundred (300)
pounds to the square inch. All pipe shall be coated with Dr.
Angus Smith's preservative varnish, and shall be laid and
jointed by competent mechanics and in the best possible manner.
"The streets along which and at what points said mains shall
be laid shall be first designated by the board of mayor and
aldermen of the city of Vicksburg.
" Hydrants.-The hydrants shall be double-nozzle fire hydrants with nozzles fitted to connect with the hose couplings
now in use by the fire department of said city of Vicksburg.
"The board of mayor and aldermen of the city of Vicksburg
shall within thirty (30) days from the date of the final passage
of this ordinance designate the points on the line of distributing mains at which the hydrants shall be erected.
"Gates and valves.-All the necessary gates and valves shall
be provided and located at such points on the lines of mains as
will enable certain districts to be cut off and isolated when repairs are needed without depriving other districts of their full
supply.
"Pumps.-The pumping plant shall consist of two pumping
engines each capable of pumping two millions (2,000,000) of
gallons of water per day of twenty-four (24) hours against the
pressure needed to supply all parts of the pipe system with an
abundant supply of water. They shall be so arranged as to be
operated separately or together.
"Boilers.-The boilers shall be of ample capacity to operate
the pumping engines and shall be so arranged as to be operated
separately or together as may be required.
"Stand-pipe.-There shall be a stand-pipe or a reservoir of

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

sufficient capacity and height or elevation to furnish an ample supply of water for consumption at the highest points
along the line of the mains.
"Pump-house.-The pumps and boilers house shall be a substantial stone or brick building of ample size for the pumps and
batteries of boilers. The smokestack will be of brick of the
size needed to operate the boilers.
"Source of supply.-The water shall be taken from such
point as may be free from all sewerage contamination, and
shall be good, wholesome water fit for all purposes of domestic
or manufacturing consumption.
"SEc. 3. In consideration of the public benefit and the protection to property resulting from the construction of the said
system of waterworks the mayor and aldermen of the city of
Vicksburg hereby rent to the said Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates, successors and assigns, not less than
eighty (80) double-nozzle frost-proof fire hydrants for the aforesaid period of thirty (30) years at the annual rate of sixty-five
(865) dollars for each hydrant, to be payable semi-annually on
the 15th days of January and July. After the first year of the
operation of said waterworks the said city hereby rents not less
than ten (10) hydrants in addition to said eighty (80) for the
unexpired period of said thirty years; the first one hundred
(100) hydrants shall be located on the original twelve (12) miles
of mains at said annual rental of sixty-five ($65) dollars, payable as aforesaid and for the remainder of said period of thirty
years unexpired at the time of placing each of said hydrants.
"The rental of all hydrants in excess of said one hundred hydrants hereafter erected on the line of distributing mains or on
the extensions thereof as hereinafter provided at the request of
the said mayor and aldermen of the city of Vicksburg shall be
at the annual rate of fifty (50) dollars for each hydrant, payable
as aforesaid, during the unexpired period of the said original
term of thirty (30) years. Water shall be used from the said
hydrants for the extinguishment of fires and necessary fire
practice and for flushing sewers and gutters only, provided that
for fire practice and flushing sewers no more than two hydrants shall be opened at one time and not more than once in
each week.

VIOKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. v. VICKSBURG.

78

Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 4. Water shall be furnished free of charge to the pub-

lic schools, and all other public buildings used exclusively for
city purposes, and for filling public cisterns, and the city hospital shall also be supplied with water free by a supply pipe
whenever the mains shall be laid within seven hundred and fifty
(750) feet of said hospital. And water shall also be supplied
free for six (6) drinking fountains -with openings for man and
beast and one public fountain to be erected by the said Samuel
R. Bullock & Co., in such place on the line of mains as the
board of mayor and aldermen of the city of Vicksburg may
direct.
"SEC. 5. That said Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates, successors or assigns, may procure the organization of
a waterworks corporation under the laws of any State and may
assign to it all the rights and privileges acquired hereunder.
Provided, that such assignment shall not invalidate or affect
the bond required by section (7) seven hereof and no assignment thereof shall be valid unless such assignee shall in writing to said board of mayor and aldermen accept this ordinance
and become bound by its terms and obligations. And the said
board of mayor and aldermen shall pass and enact such
further and other ordinance and do and perform such other
acts, including the repassage of this ordinance, in favor of the
said corporation as may be necessary to vest in the said corporation the rights and privileges hereby granted.
"SEC. 6. Upon the completion of the construction of the said
system of waterworks the said Samuel R. Bullock & Company,
their associates, successors and assigns, shall notify the mayor
and aldermen of the city of Vicksburg to that effect in writing
and thereupon submit the works to such a test as will show the
capacity of the works to be sufficient to throw four (4)fire streams
through one hundred feet of two and one half inch hose and
one-inch nozzle from four (4) different hydrants a stream not
less than fifty (50) feet high at the highest location on which
any of such hydrants are located. On the satisfactory performance of this test the said board of mayor and aldermen shall
formally accept said system if constructed in accordance with
the terms of this ordinance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"S~c. '7.
Within fifteen days after the day that this ordinance
takes effect the said Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates, successors or assigns, shall file their written acceptance
thereof, binding themselves to its terms and obligations, in the
office of the city clerk accompanied by their bond in the penal
sum of ten thousand (I1 0,000) dollars with two or more sufficient
sureties to be approved by said board of mayor and aldermen
executed to the mayor and aldermen of the city of Vicksburg
and conditioned for the faithful compliance with the terms of
this section. On failure to file such bond within said time this
ordinance shall become null and void. But if said board shall
not approve a bond so filed, said board may in its discretion
grant additional reasonable time within which to file another
bond.
"The construction of the said system shall be commenced
within sixty days after this ordinance takes effect, and said systemshall be completed within eighteen (18) months after the coinmencement of the construction thereof ; provided however, that
the time during which the said Samuel R. Bullock & Company,
their associates, successors or assigns, are delayed by floods, act
of God or the public enemy, legal proceedings for the maintenance or defence of their legal rights or in the acquisition of
property or right of way, or by reason of any other causes whatever beyond their control, shall form no part of the time limited
in this ordinance for the performance of any act required by
the terms hereof to be done by them, but they shall use all due
diligence to remove any such obstructions or delays.
"S~c. 8. The said board of mayor and aldermen of the city
of Vicksburg shall from time to time pass and enact ordinances
under suitable penalties providing for the protection of said
works from damage, fraud or imposition.
"SEc. 9. At the expiration of each period of ten years after
this ordinance takes effect, the mayor and aldermen of the city
of Vicksburg shall have the right and privilege to purchase the
said system of waterworks, provided they notify the said Samuel ft. Bullock & Company, their associates, successors or assigns, of their intention to do so, at least one year before the
expiration of the said period of ten years.

VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. v.VICKSBURG.

75

Opinion of the Court.

"The value of the said system shall be ascertained as follows: The said Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their successors, associates and assigns, and the board of mayor and
aldermen of the city of Vicksburg shall severally appoint one
person, the two appointees shall choose a third, and the three
persons thus chosen, who shall be hydraulic engineers, shall
constitute a board to determine the value of the said system of
waterworks. None of the board shall be residents of the said
Warren County. The said mayor and aldermen of the city of
Vicksburg shall within sixty days after the said board have
rendered its decision, pay the amount awarded in cash. A
failure to so pay the award or to give notice of intention to
purchase as above provided shall operate as a waiver of the
right to purchase until the expiration of the next succeeding
period of ten years.
"SEc. 10. The said Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates, successors and assigns, shall make extensions to their
line of mains whenever called upon so to do by the mayor and
aldermen of the city of Vicksburg. Provided, however, that
said extensions shall be not less than five hundred feet in length
and that one public hydrant shall be located on each five hundred feet or major portion thereof ; and further provided, that
two thirds of the residents on the line of such extension shall
agree to take water at the established rates for a period of at
least two years, but the said Samuel R. Bullock & Company,
their associates, successors and assigns, may voluntarily make
such extensions from time to time as they may deem necessary.
"SEc. 11. After the works are put in operation, if at any
time the pressure gauges located at the points hereinbefore
named should indicate a pressure of less than twenty pounds (20)
on the distributing mains at the highest point of elevation for
the period of two weeks in succession then the rentals for the
use and employment of the hydrants for the purposes aforesaid
shall cease until the standard of pressure in this section provided shall be attained; provided however, if the pressure indicated as aforesaid should be less than twenty pounds for two
calendar months in succession then all the rights, and privileges

OCTOBER TERM,1

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

of the said Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates,
successors and assigns, acquired by virtue of this ordinance
shall at the option of said board of mayor and aldermen made
in writing cease, determine and be null and void. But nothing
herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent the said
Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates or assigns,
from temporarily shutting off the water from its said system
or any portion thereof, for the purpose of making repairs or
extensions to the same; and no liability shall attach to the said
Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates, successors and
assigns, for the suspension of the supply of water; provided,
the repairs or extensions are made and the water turned on
again without unnecessary delay. But the city shall not be liable to pay the rental for any hydrant during such time as the
proper supply of water cannot be procured therefrom.
"SE. 12. Be it further ordained, That as part of the consideration for the performance of the duties and obligations
hereby imposed on the said Bullock & Co., their associates,
successors and assigns, the said waterworks a d the property
and business pertaining thereto and employed in and about
said system shall be exempt from all municipal taxation during
the first five years of their operation, and all of the property
and business pertaining to and employed in and about said
system of waterworks shall thereafter during each year for the
balance of the period of this contract be assessed for taxation
by said city at a valuation not to exceed the sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).
"Sxc. 13. The said Samuel IR. Bullock & Company, their associates, successors or assigns, shall have the right to make all
needful rules and regulations governing the consumption of
water, the tapping of pipes and general operation of the works,
and to make such rates and charges for the use of said water
as they may determine; provided, that said rates and charges
shall not exceed fifty cents for each one thousand gallons of

water.
"SEc. 14. Be it further ordained, That for the purpose of
paying the obligations and liabilities of the said mayor and
aldermen of the city of Vicksburg, which shall accrue to the

VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. u. VICKSBURG.

77

Opinion of the Court.

said Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates, successors
or assigns, by virtue of the terms and conditions of this ordinance, the said mayor and aldermen of the city of Vicksburg
or other duly constituted municipal authorities shall annually
levy and cause to be collected upon the taxable property of said
city a special tax, to be known and designated as the waterworks tax, sufficient to meet and pay all of said obligations and
liabilities during the continuance of this contract and until all
of said obligations and liabilities shall be paid and discharged.
"SEc. 15. Be it further ordained, That this ordinance shall
take effect from and after its approval by the mayor. Ordained
this 18th day of November, 1886."
On March 1, 1887, Samuel R. Bullock & Company assigned
and transferred, under and by virtue of the fifth section of the
aforesaid ordinance, all their rights and privileges acquired under
the ordinance to the Vicksburg Water Supply Company, incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi, and the
said company accepted in writing the said ordinance.
The bill further alleges the construction of the said water
plant, in accordance with the specifications contained in the
ordinance, and the city accepted the same; that since the completion and acceptance of said waterworks, during a period of
fourteen years up to about July, 1900, the said company fully
complied with all the terms of the ordinance, and no complaint
was made by the city with respect to the execution of the company's part of the contract, and the city, without question, paid
to the water company the semi-annual payments stipulated for
in the ordinance; that on the 8th day of August, 1900, a mortgage that the said company had previously made, and which
had fallen into default, was foreclosed, and all the franchises,
ordinances, contracts and property described and conveyed in
said mortgage deed were sold to the Vicksburg Waterworks
Company, a corporation under the laws of the State of Mississippi, doing business in the city of Vicksburg, and which became the owner of said waterworks property and entered into
the operation of the same; that on October 18, 1900, the said
The Vicksburg Water Supply Company executed a quitclaim
deed to the said The Vicksburg Waterworks Company, convey-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ing and assigning all rights, titles and interest it might have or
might thereafter acquire in said waterworks property, franchises,
ordinances and con tracts; that the Vicksburg Waterworks Coipany gave the city notice in writing of the said purchase and
assignment, with a written acceptance of the terms and provisions of the said ordinance; that since the completion and acceptance of the said waterworks the city continuously received
and used the water furnished by said waterworks, during a
period of about fourteen years; and said water has at all times
been and now is good and wholesome for public and private
use, and adequate in supply for the needs of the city and its inhabitants; that said water so furnished from the time the city
first received and accepted the same up to the present time is
and has at all times been the same character and supply of water,
and is and at all times has been in accordance with the said
ordinance and contract entered into with said city by said S. R.
Bullock & Company, the said Vicksburg Water Supply Comnpany, and the said Vicksburg Waterworks Company, and that
the pressure maintained has at all times been and is now greater
than requii'ed by said ordinance and contract.
Upon these allegations, the appellants claim that a contract
was entered into between the city and S. R. Bullock & Company and their assigns, the Vicksburg Water Supply Company
and the Vicksburg Waterworks Company, which contract still
exists and is within the protection of the Constitution of the
United States.
The matters and things which are alleged by the appellants
to impair the obligation of said contract and to destroy their
property rights are mainly as follows:
On March 9, 1900, the legislature of Mississippi passed an
act entitled "An act to authorize the mayor and aldermen of
the city of Vicksburg to issue bonds to the amount of $375,000,
to purchase or construct, equip and maintain, a waterworks
system; construct and establish a sewerage system; to purchase grounds for, erect and equip a city hall; construct the
necessary buildings for a medical college, and for other purposes ;" by which act, the bill alleges, the legislature assumed
to annul and abrogate the aforesaid ordinance and contract the

VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. v. VICKSBURG.

79

Opinion of the Court.

city entered into with said Bullock & Company and their assigns in this, that, by reason of said ordinance and contract,
said city has no right within the said period of thirty years to
engage in the business of supplying water to the inhabitants
of said city in competition with said Bullock & Company or
their assigns, notwithstanding which said act authorizes and
permits said city to construct and maintain waterworks for said
purpose, if unable to buy the waterworks of said Vicksburg
Water Company at the arbitrary and inadequate price fixed by
the said legislative act. The bill further alleges that, in pursuance of said act, and as required by its terms and conditions,
an election was held in said city on the 3d day of July, 1900,
at which it was voted, by a majority of the votes cast, that said
city should issue its bonds in the sum of $150,000, to buy or
construct waterworks for said city; that, on the 7th day of
November, 1900, the city passed a resolution and ordinance as
follows: "Resolved, that the mayor be and is hereby instructed
to notify the Vicksburg Waterworks Company that the mayor
and aldermen deny any liability upon any contract for the use
of the waterworks hydrants; that from and after August,
1900, they will pay reasonable compensation for the use of said
hydrants; that the city attorney take such action as shall be
necessary to determine the rights of the city in the premises."
The bill further alleges that on December 7, 1900, the city
filed a bill in the Chancery Court of the county of Warren,
State of Mississippi, against the Vicksburg Water Supply Company.and the Vicksburg Waterworks Company, averring, among
other things, that the contract entered into with Samuel R. Bullock & Company was null and void, and the attempt by said
mayor and aldermen was a gross abuse of their rights and
powers; that the said mayor and aldermen had no right to
make a contract for so long a period as thirty years, and beyond
their official terms to bind the constituted authorities to pay
rents for the said hydrants as therein stipulated; that the rates
prescribed in said contract for the use of said hydrants and the
rates charged by said company against domestic consumers
are exorbitant and illegal, and said board exceeded its power
and authority in making a contract stipulating during the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

period aforesaid for said rates; that the said mayor and aldermen, at a meeting held on the 5th day of November, 1900, resolved and declared that "the said board no longer recognized
any liability, under said contract, to said company, by reason
whereof said complainants say that said contract no longer
exists; that they are entitled, as against the Vicksburg Water
Supply Company, to have said contract canceled and annuled,
and as against the Vicksburg Waterworks Company to a decree that said company have never acquired any rights in or
to said contract, or if mistaken in this, by reason of the matters and things stated, they are entitled to have the same annuled and cancelled; praying that the said city may have said
relief and such other and further relief as may appear just
and proper."
The present bill further alleges that said suit in the chancery
court was brought on petition to the Circuit Court as involving
a Federal question, and that the same is now pending in that
court upon a motion to remand.
The bill prays for an injunction to restrain the defendant
from assuming to abrogate and take away the franchises and
contract rights of the complainant, and from attempting to coerce
the company to sell its works to the defendant for an inadequate
price, and that said act of the legislature of Mississippi, adopted
on March 9, 1900, and said resolution and ordinance adopted
and passed by said city on the 7th day of November, 1900, be
declared to impair the obligations of said contract between said
city and said Bullock & Company and their assigns, and to cast
a cloud upon the title, franchises and rights of complainant, and
said act, ordinance and resolution, and each of them, are alleged
to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United States
in this, that they impair the obligations of said contract between said city and said Bullock & Company and their assigns.
It cannot be seriously contended that, under the act of
March 18, 1886, authorizing the city to provide for the erection
and maintenance of a system of waterworks, and to contract
with a party or parties to build and operate waterworks, and
under the ordinance of the city of November 18, 1896, providing for a supply of water to the city and its inhabitants by con-

VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. v.VICKSBURG.

81

Opinion of the Court.

tracting with Samuel R. Bullock & Company, their associates,
successors and assigns, and the acceptance of said ordinance by
Samuel R. Bullock & Company, no contract was entered into.
The subject-matter of the contract was within the powers of
the city to make; the terms were explicitly set forth in the ordinance ; the works erected were approved by the city, and the
respective obligations created by the contract were duly complied with without question or complaint, for a period of fourteen years.
After the lapse of that long period and the continuous acquiescence of the city in the contract as a valid and subsisting one,
the city, according to the allegations of the bill, now insists that
the said contract was invalid because in excess of its powers to
contract, and is proposing to borrow money to erect and maintain waterworks of its own, and become a competitor with the
complainant for the custom of the consumers of water. And
the question for our consideration is whether the subsequent
legislation, state and municipal, set forth in the bill, impairs the
contract rights of the complainant within the protection of the
Constitution of the United States.
As respects the act of March 9, 1900, it is contended by the
complainant that it is unconstitutional for several reasons,
chiefly because it places an arbitrary valuation on the property
or the complainant, and because it purports to authorize the
city to build and operate waterworks of its own in derogation
of the contract rights of the complainant.
Whether this act of the legislature of Mississippi is, in its
terms, subject to those objections, or whether it may be regarded
as merely authorizing the city to proceed in such a manner as
not to conflict with existing contract obligations, we need not
determine at this stage of the case, because we think that the
ordinance of the city of November 7,1900, whereby the mayor
was instructed to notify the waterworks company that the
mayor and aldermen deny any liability upon any contract for
the use of the waterworks hydrants, and the subsequent action
of the city in holding an election to authorize the issue of bonds
to buy or construct waterworks of its own, and in refusing to
pay the amount due and payable under the terms of the ordiVOL. CLXXxV-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

nance, do not present the mere case of a breach of a private
contract to be remedied by an action at law, but disclose an intention and attempt, by subsequent legislation of the city, to
deprive the complainant of its rights under an existing contract;
and that, therefore, unless the city can point to some inherent
want of legal validity in the contract, or to some such disregard
by the waterworks company of its obligations under the contract as to warrant the city in declaring itself absolved from
the contract, the case presented by the bill is within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States and within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as presenting a Federal question.
The objections urged in the brief of the appellee to the validity of the contract, because it undertakes to bind the city for a
period of thirty years, because an attempt to barter away the
legislative power of the city authorities, and because creating
an indebtedness in excess of the charter limits, are those that
were considered at length in the similar cases of lfralla Wallca
v. Malla lalla lIater Company, 172 U. S. 1, and Los Angeles
v. Los Angeles City lfrater Company, 177 U. S. 558, and were
in those cases held to be untenable. However, we do not wish
to be understood as now determining such questions in the present case, for we are only considering whether or not the Circuit
Court had jurisdiction to consider them.
It is further contended that the bill does not disclose any actual proceeding on the part of the city to displace complainant's
rights under the contract, that mere apprehension that illegal
action may be taken by the city cannot be the basis of enjoining such action, and that therefore the Circuit Court did right
in dismissing the bill. We cannot accede to this contention.
It is one often made in cases where bills in equity are filed to
prevent anticipated and threatened action. But it is one of the
most valuable features of equity jurisdiction, to anticipate and
prevent a threatened injury, where the damages would be insufficient or irreparable. The exercise of such jurisdiction is
for the benefit of both parties; in disclosing to the defendant
that he is proceeding without warrant of law, and in protecting
the complainant from injuries which, if inflicted, would be wholly
destructive of his rights.

RODGERS v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

It may be said that the action of the Circuit Court in dismissing the bill may have been based on the fact that the city had
proceeded by a bill filed in the Chancery Court of Mississippi
against the waterworks company before the present suit was
instituted. But the learned judge does not, in his certificate,
suggest such a question, and the bill avers that the record in
the city's suit is still pending in the Circuit Court on a motion
to remand. Whether the city's complaint in the state court
disclosed a Federal question, and what, if properly removed to
the Circuit Court for that reason, the course of the Circuit Court
ought to be in respect to the formal disposition of the cases, are
matters not before us for determination.
Nor can we consider allegations made in behalf of the city
in its answer as to misconduct of the waterworks company, in
respect to which no issue was found nor proofs taken in the
court below. They must be determined by the proper tribunals,
which will pass upon the merits of the case.
We think this cause presents a controversy so arising under
the laws and Constitution of the United States as to give the
Circuit Court jurisdiction, and therefore the judgment of the
Circuit Court is
Reversed, and the cause remanded to that cout to take proceedings therein accordingto law.

RODGERS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAMS.
No. 317. Argued February 26, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.

Where there are two statutes, the earlier special and the later general, (the
tprms of the general being broad enough to include the matter provided
for in the special,) the fact that the one is special and the other is general
creates a presumption that the special is to be considered as remaining
an exception to tle general, and the general will not be understood as
repealing the special, unless a repeal is expressly named, or unless the
provisions of the general are manifestly inconsistent with those of the
special.

