HITZ v. JENKS.
Opinion of the Court.

HITZ v. JENKS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 99. Argued January 14, 15,1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.

The property involved in this suit is improved real estate in the city of
Washington; and the controlling question presented is, whether the sale
of it under a deed of trust stands in the way of its redemption by Mrs.
Hitz upon her paying the debt secured by the deed of trust.
As between the parties to the original cause the title to the real estate in
question was bound for the filing of the cross-bill by Mrs. Hitz.
The deeds which Mrs. Hitz sought to have set aside are valid and enforceable instruments.
The sale by Tyler as trustee conferred no title as against Mrs. Hitz.
Mrs. Hitz is entitled in this suit to redeem the property by paying such sum
as may be due on account of the debt to secure which the deed to Tyler
was made.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
AMr. A. S. Worthington and Mr. Vayne MYc
lant. Mr. J. S. Flannerywas on their brief.

eagh for appel-

Mr. Walter D. Davidge and Mr. J. J. Darlingtonfor appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HA LAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The property involved in this suit is certain improved real
estate on the northeast corner of Ninth and G streets in the
city of Washington, of which the appellant, who was the plaintiff below, asserts ownership subject to the lien created by a
deed of trust to which reference will be presently made; but 6f
which property the heirs at law and devisees of the late William P. Jenks also assert ownership in virtue of a conveyance
to him by the purchaser at a sale had under that deed by the
trustee therein named while he held the property as receiversuch purchase having been in fact for the benefit of Jenks in
whose favor the deed of trust was executed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

This land had been inherited by Mrs. Hitz from her father
after her marriage to John Hitz in 1856. There were several
children of that marriage, and, as stated by the Court of Appeals, the husband became entitled to an inchoate tenancy by
the curtesy in the wife's estate which remained unaffected by
the married woman's act of 1869.
The controlling question presented on this appeal is whether
the sale under the deed of trust stands in the way of the redemption of the property by Mrs. Ritz upon her paying the debt
secured by the above deed of trust.
The facts necessary to be stated in order to bring out clearly
the views of the respective parties touching that question are
as follows:
By a deed of trust dated January 26, 1876, John Ritz and
his wife Jane C. Ritz conveyed this real estate to R. B. Donaldson and Charles E. Prentiss, trustees, to secure the payment
of two promissory notes of $10,000 each executed January 5,
1876, by William R. Chipley to E. P. Halstead and by the latter endorsed to the German-American Savings Bank.
Subsequently the above notes passed to and became the property of the German-American National Bank, which succeeded
the German-American Savings Bank.
On the 16th day of June, 1877 (the deed to Donaldson and
Prentiss having been released of record) Ritz and wife by deed
conveyed the property to Sarah L. Crane, who on June 18, 1877,
conveyed to Richard W. Tyler as trustee, to secure the payment of a promissory note for -20,000 executed by the grantor
and made payable to John Ritz or order three years after date,
with interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum until paid;
which note was endorsed by the payee to William P. Jenks.
Sarah L. Crane bad no interest in the transaction with Jenksthe real consideration for the note being a loan of money by
Jenkis to the German-American National Bank, of which John
Hitz was President and Charles E. Prentiss, a brother of Sarah
L. Crane, was Cashier. The title was put in her name in order
that she might execute the above note to Jenks and make a
deed of trust to secure its payment, which should be a first
lien on the property.

HITZ v. JENKS.
Opinion of the Court.

The deed to Tyler as trustee authorized him upon default in
the payment of the note or any quarterly instalment of interest
thereon at the rate aforesaid, or of any sums advanced for taxes
and insurance when demanded, or of any cost, charge or commission, to sell the land and premises, or as much thereof as
might be necessary, at public auction to the highest bidder,
upon such terms and at such time and place as the trustee
deemed best for the interest of the parties concerned.
In October, 1878, the German-American National Bank failed,
and by appointment of the Comptroller of the Currency, Benjamin U. Keyser became its receiver. The latter (having first
procured from Sarah L. Crane a conveyance of such interest as
she had after satisfying the deed of trust to Tyler) obtained
possession of the property from Hitz, and proceeded, in his capacity as receiver of the bank, to collect the rents.
Default having occurred in the payment of taxes and interest on the Jenks note, Tyler as trustee gave notice by publication in a newspaper that he would sell the property at public
auction, on the 20th day of January, 1879.
Thereupon, on the 10th day of January, 1879, Keyser as receiver commenced his suit in equity in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia against John Hitz, Jane C. Hitz, Sarah
L. Crane, William P. Jenks, Richard W. Tyler, E. P. ialstead,
R. P. Donaldson, Charles E. Prentiss and William R. Chipley.
Part of the relief asked was that pending the cause the defendants Jenks and Tyler and each of them be restrained from advertising and selling the property in question or in any manner
interfering with it.
On the 21st of February, 1879, an order was entered restraining the sale by Tyler.
All of the defendants filed answers-Jenks and Tyler resisting the relief asked. Sarah L. Crane by cross-bill asked
that the conveyance from her to Keyser be vacated. Mrs.
Hitz by cross-bill claimed the property as hers, and prayed, upon
various grounds, for the cancellation of the deed to Sarah 1.
Crane, as well as the deed of the latter to Tyler, and for an accounting in respect of rents and profits. She also charged that
there had been a fraudtulent alterationof the deedfrom her to

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Sarah L. c rane. Answers to the various cross-bills were also
filed.
The cause having been heard at special term the court, on
the 28th of November, 1881, rendered a decree adjudging that
the two Chipley notes of $10,000 each had been paid; that the
deed of release by Donaldson and Prentiss was a valid instrument; that the deed by tlitz and wife to Crane was null and
void as to Mrs. Hitz; that the deed to Tyler, trustee, was valid
as to any interest in the property which John Hitz had in virtue
of his marital relation, but was null and void as to Mrs. Hitz;
and that the deed to Keyser, as receiver, was null and void from
its delivery.
That decree also provided that Keyser, receiver, be directed
to account to the court for whatever sums of money he might
have collected arising out of the property in question after the
same came into his possession, and that he immediately surrender
possession "to Richard W. Tyler, who is hereby appoi7ted retciver, to take possession of and rent and manage the same and
to collect the rents and profits thereof and apply the same, so
far as may be necessary, to the payment of taxes, insurance and
other expenses needed to keep the said property in tenantable
condition until the further order o[ the court."
Keyser, 2lrs. Hitz and Jenks severally appealed to the General Term and their appeals were allowed.
On the 5th day of December, 1881, Tyler gave a bond as receiver of the court in the penalty of five thousand dollars. But
he did not take immediate possession.
On the 15th day of December, 1881, an order was made at special term that Keyser bring the rents and profits of the property accruing after December 1, 1881, from month to month
into court, and give bond as receiver of the German-American
Kational Bank in the penalty of five thousand dollars, and the
execution of the decree so far as it transferred the property to
the receiver therein named was stayed until final decision. Keyser executed, December 16, 1881, the required bond.
On the 11th day of December, 1883, the General Term, upon
final hearing, rendered a decree in which among other things it
was stated that the court was of opinion "that the complainant,

HITZ v'. JENKS.
Opinion of the Court.

Benjamin T. Keyser, receiver, as the holder of the notes made
by William R. Chipley, is not entitled to any relief, and that
the deed of conveyance, dated the 16th of June, 1877, made by
Jane C. Hitz and John litz to Sarah L. Crane, in fee simple, conveyed as well the right, title, interest and estate of the said Jane
0. Hitz as of the said John iHitz in and to the real estate and
premises in said deed mentioned and referred to, and that there
is no equity shown in this cause to prevent or delay the execution [or] enforcement of the deed of trust dated the 18th day of
June, 1877, whereby the said Sarah L. Crane conveyed the said
real estate and premises to Richard W. Tyler in trust to secure
the payment of the debt to William P. Jenks, with interest and
costs, as in and by the said deed of trust mentioned and provided." It was therefore adjudged that" the injunction granted
on the 21st of February, 1879, enjoining the sale by the said
Richard W. Tyler of the said real estate and premises conveyed to him in trust, [be,] and the same is hereby, dissolved,
and that the decree in special term, so far as the same holds
that the said deed of conveyance from Jane 0. Hitz and John
Hitz did not convey the right, title, interest and estate of the
said Jane C. Ritz in and to the said real estate and premises,
and so far as the same retains the said injunction in respect of
such right, title, interest and estate of the said Jane 0. Hitz, be,
and the same is hereby, reversed."
The court adjudged that the deed from Crane to Keyser was
void ; and directed that Keyser, as receiver, account for the
rents and profits received or which should have been received
by him before and after the decree in special term, the cause
to be retained for the purposes of such accounting.
The decree of the general term also provided:
"Fourth. That the order passed in special term on the 15th
of December, 1881, authorizing the collection of said rents and
profits by the complainant, be, and the same is hereby, revoked,
and that the said Richard W. Tyler be, and he is hereby, appointed receiver, with power, until a sale shall be made under the said deed of trust, to take and hold possession of said
real estate and premises and to rent and manage the same, and
to collect the rents and profits and apply the same to the pay-

OCTOBER TERMA,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

ments of the taxes, insurance and any proper expenses, and it
shall be the duty of the said receiver, after such application, to
pay from time to time the said rents and profits into court and
from time to time to make report to the court of the manner in
which he has discharged his trust, and before entering upon the
performance of his office as receiver the said Richard W. Tyler
shall give bond in the -penal sum of five thousand dollars and
with a surety or sureties to be approved by this court or one of
the justices thereof, conditioned for the faithful discharge of
the trust hereby reposed in him."
"Seventh. That this decree is without prejudice to the right
of any party entitled to the reversion of the said real estate and
premises, or any interest in such reversion, to redeem or to
make claim, as such party may be advised, to any balance or
portion thereof which, upon a sale under the said deed of trust
and the satisfaction of the debt secured thereby, with interest
and costs, and of the expenses of sale, may remain in the hands
of the trustee.
"cEighth. That, save so far as this cause is retained, as above
mentioned and decreed, the bill of the complainant, with the
amendment and supplement thereto, and the cross-bill of Jane
C. llitz, with the amendment thereto, be, and the same are
hereby, dismissed."
Mrs. fitz appealed from the above decree to this court. The
appeal was allowed, and such allowance was recited in the decree. On December 31, 1883, Mrs. Hitz executed and the court
approved a sqper
'edeas bond in the penalty of $3000.
In January, 188-1, Keyser, in conformity with the decree of
the General Term, surrendered possession of the property to
Tyler, who thereafter held it as 2'eceiver appointed by the court.
But notwithstanding the allowance of Mrs. Ritz's appeal, and
the approval of the sutersedeas bond executed by her, Tyler,
upon his own motion or by direction of Jenks, and in his capacity only as tritstee under the Crane deed, published, on March 3,
1884, a notice in a newspaper that he would, on the 26th
day of March, 188-, sell for cash the property in question, together with the improvements thereon, by virtue of the deed
of trust executed to him June 18, 1877. The notice did not

HITZ v. JENKS.
Opinion of the Court.

mention the fact that the property was in Tyler's hands as receiver appointed by the court. But he was immediately notified in writing by the attorney of Mrs. Hitz of the fact that
she had executed, and that the court in December, 1883, had
approved, her supersedeas bond. Tyler ignored that notice
and sold the property at public auction on the day named to
one Seth Caldwell for the sun of $29,200-the latter, it is conceded, making the purchase in behalf of Jenks. On the next
day Tyler executed a conveyance to Caldwell, who on April 9,
1884, conveyed to Jenks. The proceeds of the sale lacked upwards of four thousand dollars of discharging the debt due to
Jenks.
It should be stated that after the cause was removed to this
court by appeal an accounting was had below as to the rents
and profits collected or which should have been collected by
Tyler as receiver; and on July 13, 1885, a claim of Mrs. Hitz
was disallowed, and the money in the registry of the court was
ordered to be paid to Tyler to be applied by him in discharge
of taxes and assessments accruing prior to January 1, 1884.
From that order Mrs. Ritz also appealed and executed a bond
for costs.
The two appeals were heard in this court, and each decree or
order appealed from was affirmed November 14, 1887. Hitz
v. Jenks, 123 U. S.297. Pending the cause here William P.
Jenks died, and, the record states, John Story Jenks, William
Henry Jenks and Evan Randolph, executors, were made appellees.
The present suit was brought by Mrs. Hitz on the 6th day of
November, 1890-the defendants being the sole heirs at law
and devisees of Jenks, and Richard W. Tyler, Sarah L. Crane
and Enoch Totten. Its object was to have the sale to Caldwell
and the conveyance by him to Jenks set aside and annulled.
It is not necessary, in view of the grounds upon which we will
dispose of the cause, to set forth all the allegations of the bill.
It is sufficient to say that it asked that the sale be set aside for
the following reasons:
"1. The property was in the possession and custody of a
receiver appointed by the court to take and keep possession
voL. CLXXXV-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

thereof and to collect the rents, and an approved supersedeas
bond in due form of law had been given on her appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United States from the decree of the
General Term, and all proceedings were stopped, and no action
could be legally taken under said decree while said appeal remained pending.
"2. Said sale was void because the terms of sale were unreasonable; because there were no bids, the bidders there, if any,
having been discouraged from bidding; because the pretended
sale was made pending an appeal in the cause to the Supreme
Court of the United States; because it was given out, stated,
and understood at the time of sale that it was intended to
make the sale in the face of said appeal for the purpose only
of transferring the title to the creditors; because the price bid
and accepted at said sale was so grossly inadequate as to amount
to a fraud upon the complainant, and because said pretended
sale was conceived and carried through solely in the interest
of the creditor, and in total disregard and in violation of the
rights of the complainant as the owner of the equity of redemption. She therefore submits to the court that said pretended
sale should be set aside, and that she ought to be allowed to
redeem said property. She is willing and hereby offers to pay
for the said heirs at law of said Jenks whatsoever sum may
be found justly due to them for principal and interest on the
said loan, and also for all expenditures in and upon said property, after charging them with the rents actually received, a
fair accounting to be had under the direction of this court to
ascertain the true balance due."
The relief prayed for was that the plaintiff be decreed to be
the owner of the above property, subject to the debt to secure
the payment of which the deed to Tyler as trustee was given;
that the deed from Tyler to Caldwell be declared void, and
that she be allowed to redeem the property by paying to the
heirs of ,enkcs what might be found due upon a roper accountingt in reference to the property; that Tyler be held chargeable, as
receiver, and that he be compelled to account for the rents that
had been or should have been collected by him ; that the heirs
of Jenks be restrained from selling or encumbering the prop-

HITZ v. JENKS.
Opinion of the Court.

erty; that a receiver be appointed to take charge of it and to
collect the rents; and that the plaintiff might. have such other
and further relief as was just and equitable.
The answers were such as to meet all the material issues made
by the bill. Upon final hearing the bill was dismissed with
costs, and that decree was affirmed in the Court of Appeals of
the District.
We have seen that the relief asked by Mrs. Ritz in her crossbill in the original suit was a decree declaring that the deed to
Donaldson and Prentiss, the deed from herself and husband to
Sarah L. Crane, the deed from the latter to Tyler as trustee,
and the deed from Sarah L. Crane to Keyser, as receiver, were
null and void as to her. She asked to be put in possession of
the property and that it might be conveyed to trustees for her
sole and separate benefit, so that it could not be interfered with
by her husband or his creditors. We have also seen that the
Special Term declared void as to MIrs. Hitz the deed to Sarah
L. Crane, as well as the deed to Tyler, trustee, and the deed to
Keyser as receiver. The General Term reversed that decree,
dissolved the injunction restraining Tyler from selling the property under the trust deed and dismissed the suit. But Mrs.
Hitz appealed to this court, and the decree of the General Term
reciting the allowance of her appeal was superseded.
It is now said that the appeal from the Special to the General Term in the Xeyser case was only a step in the progress of
the cause during its pendency in the same court, and that the
decree of the General Term took the place of the decree and
orders in the Special Term and was the final decision in the
cause; donsequently, it is argued, an appeal to this court from
the decree of the General Term, with suyersedeas, could not
have the effect to reinstate or revive the decree of the Special
Term, particularly that part of it enjoining Tyler from selling
under the trust deed. Treating the decree of the General Term
as the final decision in the original suit, and the only one that
could have been reviewed on the appeal in that cause to this
court, it is further contended that such decree, although ap-,
pealed from, was not in law superseded, so far as it dissolved
the injunction-nospecial order having been made by the Gen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

eral Term or by this court staying the execution of that part
of the decree pending the cause here. In other words-and
such was the holding of the Court of Appeals-the force of the
decree dissolving the injunction was not at all affected by the
appeal with .2tersedeas.
In the view we take of the case, it is unnecessary to discuss
these questions, and it may be assumed for the purposes of the
present examination that the positions just referred to are correct. But does it follow that the decree of the General Term
in the Ifeyser case was not superseded so far as it ordered the
dismissal of Mrs. litz's cross-bill with costs, and declared that
she was not entitled to have the deed of her husband and herself to Sarah L. Crane, as well as the deed to Tyler, trustee,
annulled and set aside, so far as her interests in the property
were concerned? We think not. The mere dissolution of the
injunction did not conclusively determine the merits of the cause
as disclosed by the pleadings. Notwithstanding such dissolution, the way was open for Mrs. Hitz, by her appeal in the original cause, to obtain a decision by this court as to the validity
of the deed from herself and husband to Crane and of the deed
from Crane to Tyler, trustee. If this court had adjudged, upon
that appeal, that those deeds were void as to Mrs. Hitz, and had
remanded the cause for further proceedings, can it be doubted
that the court below could have granted the relief asked in her
cross-bill by setting aside not only the above deeds, but the sale
made by Tyler as trustee under the deed from Crane to him ?
If the order dissolving the injunction was not affected by the
appeal with su, ersedeas, and if a stranger to the suit had purchased the property at the sale by Tyler pending the Keyser
case here, a different question would have been presented. But
all difficulty on that ground is avoided by the fact that the purchase was in fact by the agent and representative of Jenks and
for his benefit. As between the plaintiff and Senks, the title
to the property was bound from the filing of the bill. By the
pleadings in the cause the parties had joined issue as to the validity of the deed to Tyler, trustee, and as to the right of Jenks
to have the property sold under that deed. Jenks and Tyler,
being parties to the cause, could not avoid the final determina-

HITZ v. JENKS.

165

Opinion of the Court.

tion of that issue in this court by any direction from the former
to Tyler to sell the property under the deed of trust and by becoming the purchaiser through an agent.
We have made these observations for the purpose of showing
that the mere dissolution of the injunction by the General Term,

and the subsequent sale at public auction under the trust deed,
by Tyler-whether acting upon his own motion or by direction
of Jenks is immaterial-do not preclude an inquiry in the present
suit as to the validity of the sale made by Tyler in his capacity as
trustee, pending the Iyser cause here upon appeal by Mrs. Hitz

with supersedeas. This question will now be examined.
Tyler, as trustee under the Crane deed, advertised and sold
the property, while in his possession as receiver appointed by
the court. This was done by him after the removal of the cause
to this court, and without any special order of court allowing
him to take that course. As receiver, he held the property for
the court and for the benefit of all the parties asserting an interest in it, including Mrs. Hitz. While in his hands as receiver
the property was in the custody of the law. As a party to the
cause he, as well as Jenks, whom he represented as trustee, knew
that Mrs. Ritz by her cross-bill sought to have the deed under
which he proceeded set aside as void. What he did as trustee
tended to defeat the rendition here of any effective decree in
favor of Mrs. Hitz, even if this court, upon her appeal, had directed such a decree to be entered. That this court affirmed the
decree appealed from did not change the fact that the title to
property in the custody of the law, by a receiver, was attempted to
be changed by that receiver, acting without special leave of court
and under a private deed of trust, the validity of Nhich was in
issue in the very case in which the receiver was appointed. If
this court had decided that Mrs. Hitz was entitled on her crossbill to have the deed made by herself and husband to Crane,
and the deed by the latter to Tyler, set aside, and had remanded
the cause with directions to enter a decree to that effect, the
court below would have been confronted with the fact that its
own receiver, in his capacity as private trustee and without leave
or direction to that end, had sold the property at public auction
for cash to the party in whose interest he.had been made trustee,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

and who was the principal adversary of Mrs. Hitz, one of the
parties for whom he held possession as receiver. Let us look at
some of the authorities on this general subject.
In Ifiswall v. Samplson, 14 How. 52, 65, it was said: "When
a receiver has been appointed, his possession is that of the court,
and any attempt to disturb it, without the leave of the court
first obtained, will be a contempt on the part of the person
making it. This was held in Angel v. Smith, 9 Yes. 335, both
with respect to receivers and sequestrators. When, therefore,
a party is prejudiced by having a receiver put in his way, the
course has either been to give him leave to bring an ejectment,
or to permit him to be examined p)ro interesse suo. 1 J. & W.
176, Brooks v. Greathed; 3 Daniel's Pr. 1984. And the doctrine that a receiver is not to be disturbed, extends even to cases
in which he has been appointed expressly without prejudice to
the rights of persons having prior legal or equitable interests.
And the individuals having such prior interests must, if they
desire to avail themselves of them, apply to the court either for
liberty to bring ejectment, or to be examined pro interesse suo;
and this, though their right to the possession is clear. 1 Cox,
422; 6 Ves. 287. The proper course to be pursued, says Mr.
Daniel, in his valuable treatise on Pleading and Practice in
Chancery, by any person who claims title to an estate or other
property sequestered, whether by mortgage or judgment, lease
or otherwise, or who has a title paramount to the sequestration,
is to apply to the court to direct the plaintiff to exhibit interrogatories before one of the masters, in order that the party
applying may be examined as to his title to the estate. An examination of this sort is called an examination pro ,interessesuo,
and an order for such examination may be obtained by a party
interested, as well where the property consists of goods and
chattels, or personalty, as where it is real estate. And in the
mode of proceeding is the same in the case of the receiver.
6 Yes. 287; 9 Id. 336 ; 1 J. & W. 178; 3 Daniel's Pr. 1984."
Again: "The settled rule also appears to be that where the
subject-matter of the suit in equity is real estate, and which is
taken into the possession of the court pending the litigation, by
the appointment of a receiver, or by sequestration, thte title is

RITZ v,. JENKS.
Opinion of the Court.

bound from the filing of the bill; and any purchaser, pendente
lite, even if for a valuable consideration, comes in at his peril.
3 Swanst. 278, n. 298 ; 2 Daniel's Pr. 1267; 6 Ves. 287; 9 Id. 336;
1 J. & W. 178; Daniel's Pr. 198:."
It was contended in that case that a sale of the premises on
execution and purchase occasioned no interference with the possession of the receiver, and hence no contempt of the authority
of the court, and that the sale therefore, in such a case, should
be upheld. But this court-in words that are strikingly applicable in the present case-thus disposed of that contention:
"Conceding [that] the proceedings did not disturb the possession of the receiver, the argument does not meet the objection.
The property is afund in court, to abide the event of the litigation, and to be applied to the payment of the judgment creditor,
who has filed his bill to remove impediments in the way of his
execution. If he has succeeded in establishing his right to the
application of any portion of the fund, it is the duty of the
court to see that such application is made. And, in order to
effect this, the court must administer it independently of any
rights acquired by third persons,pending the litigation. Otherwise, the whole fund may have passed out of his hands before the
final decree, and the litigation becomefruitless. It is true, in administering the fund, the court will take care that the rights of
prior liens or encumbrances shall not be destroyed; and will
adopt the proper measures, by reference to the master or otherwise,, to ascertain them, and bring them before it. Unless the
court be permitted to retain the possession of the fund, thus to
administer it, how can it ascertain the interest in the same to
which the prosecuting judgment creditor is entitled, and apply
it upon his demand?

.

.

.

But it is not necessary to go this

length in the case before us, as it is sufficient to say, that the sale
under the judgment, pending the equity suit, and while the court
was in possession.of the estate, without the leave of the court, was
illegal and void. We do not doubt but that it would be competent for the court, in case the judgment creditor holding the prior
lien had not come in and claimed his interest in the equity suit, to
decree a sale in the final disposition of the fund subject to his
judgment. The purchaser would then be bound to pay it off.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

But this disposition of the legal prior encumbrance is a very

different matter, and comes to a very different result from that
of permitting the enforcement of it, pendente lite, without the
leave of the court. The rights of the several claimants to the
state or fund is then settled, and the purchase under the decree
can be made with a full knowledge of the condition of the title,
or charges to which it may be subject."
So, in Heidritter v. Elizabeth Oilcloth Co., 112 U. S. 294,

which was the case of a sale of property under process from a.
state court while it was in the actual possession of a District
Court of the United States. When the sale took place the
property had passed otit of the possession of the Federal court

and there was no actual disturbance of such possession. Nevertheless this court held the sale to be void, under the doctrine of
lfiswall v. Sannson, saying: "The same conclusion must prevail here; for, although the sale under the judgments in the
state court was not made until after the property had passed
from the possession of the District Court by delivery to the purchaser at the sale under the decree yet the initial step on which
the sheriff's sale depended-the commencenent of the proceedings to enforce the mechanies' lien, asserting the jurisdiction and

control of the state court over the property sold-took place
when that property was in the exclusive custody and control of
the District Court; and by reason of its prosecution to a sale,
was an invasion of the jurisdiction of that court. No stress is
laid on the fact that notice or the proceeding, by affixing a copy
of the summons upon the building, which was required by the
statute, could only be made by an actual entry by the sheriff
upon the property, to that extent disturbing the possession of
the marshal, because the same result, in our opinion, would have
followed if no such notice had been required or given. The
substantial violation of the juridisetion of the District Court consisted in the control over the property in its possession, assumed
and asserted, in commencing the proceedings to enforce against
it the lien claimed by the plaintiffs in those actions, prosecuting
them to judgment and consummating them by a sale. The
principle applied as in WViswall v. Saalmson, ubi supra, must be

regarded as firmly established in the decisions of this court. It

HITZ v. JENKS.
Opinion of the Court.

has been often approved and confirmed. Peale v. Phipps,
14 How. 367 ; Haganv. Lucas, 10 Pet. 400 ; Williams v. Benedict, 8 How. 107; Pulliam v. Osborne, 17 How. 471; Taylor
v. Carryl, 20 How. 583; Tonley v. Lavender, 21 Wall. 276;
Peoples' Banc v. Calhoun, 102 U. S. 256; Barton v. Barbour,
104 U. S. 126 ; Covell v. Heyman, 111 U. S. 176."
We are not aware of any decision of this court modifying the
rule laid down in these cases.
To the same effect are Walling v. AfXiller, 108 iN. Y. 173;
Porter v. Icngman, 126 Mass. 141; Dugger v. Collins, 69 Ala.
324; Thompson, v. _3fcCleary, 159 Penn. St. 189; Ellis v. Vernon Ice, light and 1fater Co., 86 Tex. 109; High on Receivers,
3d ed. 141; Kerr on Receivers, 2d ed. 177.
In view of what has been said in the adjudged cases, it is
clear that as between the parties to the original cause the title to
the real estate in question was bound from the filing of the
cross-bill of Mrs. Hitz; and that her appeal, with sapersedeas,
from the decree of the General Term preserved her right to
have this court determine the whole cause upon the merits, as
from the commencement of her suit and as between her and
the parties hostile to her claim. It is also clear, under the authorities, that if Tyler while holding as receiver had, in a separate suit against Sarah L. Crane, obtained a decree for its sale
under the deed of trust, no title would have been acquired by the
purchaser at such a sale. Still less could any title be acquired
under a sale at public auction by Tyler, acting in his capacity
as private trustee-the property being at the time in his possession as receiver in another cause to which he was a party, and
which had, at the time, been removed to this court by appeal
with supersedeas. As receiver he held the property for Mrs.
Ritz as well as for Jenks, and he could not throw off the responsibility attaching to him in that capacity, and act, pending the
appeal, simply as a private trustee under the deed from Sarah L.
Crane.
But it is said that the decree of the General Term must be
construed as authorizing Tyler as trustee, in his discretion, to
sell the property while in his possession as receiver after the
appeal from that decree by Mrs. Hitz had been perfected and

OCTOBER TERI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

a supersedeasbond executed and approved. A complete answer
to this suggestion is that Tyler sought no such relief at the
hands of the court. He asked no affirmative relief. He only
desired that the court should not restrain him by injunction
from acting under the deed of trust.
The words in the decree, "and he [Tyler] is hereby appointed
receiver with power, until a sale shall be made under the said

deed of trust, to take and hold possession of said real estate and
premises, and to rent and manage the same, and to collect the
rents and profits and apply the same to the payment of taxes,
insurance and any proper expenses" did not confer any direct
authority on Tyler, as trustee, to sell the property.
The court, having recited in the decree the allowance to Mrs.
]Titz of an appeal, knew that such allowance removed the
whole cause to this court, Ridings v. Johnson, 128 U. S. 212,
218; United States v. Rio Grande Dam and rrigation Co.,

184: U. S. 416, and that this court could determine, at least
as between the parties,whether the deed of trust to Tyler was a
valid instrument so far as it affected the rights of Mrs. Hitz.
It knew that one of the questions to be determined upon her
appeal was as to Tyler's right to proceed under that deed. We
should not, therefore, interpret the words referred to as intended
to authorize, much less direct, Tyler, the receiver for all the
parties and the representative of the court, to proceed in his private capacity as trustee for one of the parties to sell the property
outright without any special order or direction to that effect.
Neither Tyler nor Jenks, by their pleadings, asked for any such
direction or authority from the court. The words "until a sale
shall be made under said deed of trust," reasonably interpreted,
meant no more than that the power of Tyler as receiver to take
and hold possession of the property, for~he puroses designated,

should continue until there had been such a sale under the deed
of trust as could properly and legally be made, and such as
would give the purchaser a good title. By dissolving the injunction-which was a matter of judicial discretion-the court,
in effect, declared nothing more than that it would not, by injunction, restrain the trustee from doing what he might rightfully do under the deed to him. It did not, we must assume,

HITZ v. JENKS.
Opinion of the Court.

intend to direct or authorize a sale by the trustee, whereby the
right of Mrs. Ritz to have a final determination, upon her appeal in the original cause, as to the binding force, as between
the parties, of the deeds purporting to pass her interest in the
property, would be overreached or defeated.
Other questions were discussed at the bar, but they do not
require to be specially -noticed.
In our judgment it must be held: 1. That the deeds which
Mrs. Ritz sought by her cross-bill to have set aside are to be
deemed valid and enforceable instruments, it having been so adjudged in fitz v. Jenks, 123 U. S. 297. 2. That the sale by
Tyler as trustee, on the 26th day of March, 1884, while holding
possession of the property as receiver, and when the suit to which
he was a party was pending here upon appeal with &aersedeas,
conferred no title upon Jenks as against Mrs. Hitz. 3. That as
no sale has been made under the deed from Sarah L. Crane to
Tyler, trustee, which would bind Mrs. Hitz, she is entitled in
this suit to redeem the property by paying such sum as may be
due on account of the debt to secure which that deed was executed-that sum to be ascertained by an accounting in the court
of original jurisdiction, and the amount of all rents collected
and all sums expended in the preservation or protection of the
property to be taken into consideration.
It results that the decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia dismissing the bill in the present suit, and the
decree of the Court of Appeals affirming that decree, were both
erroneous.
The decree of the Court of Appeals of the District is reversed,
and the cause remanded to that court, with directions to 'everse the decree of the Supreme Court of the District,and
for such further orders in each court as will be in conformity with the priniplesof this opinion.
M-.

JUSTIOE BREWER dissented.

