McFADDIN v. EVANS-SNIDER-BUEL CO.
Statement of the Case.

McFADDIN v. EVANS-SNIDER--BUEL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 217. Argued April 10, 11, 1902.-Decided l Iay 19, 1902.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, sustaining the act of
February 3, 1897, which provided that "section 4742 of Mansfield's
Digest of the Laws of Arkansas, heretofore put in force in the Indian
Territory, is hereby amended by adding to said section the following:
Provided that if the mortgagor is a non-resident of the Indian Territory,
the mortgage shall be recorded in the judicial district in which the
property is situated at the time the mortgage is executed. All mort.
gages of personal property in the Indian Territory heretofore executed
and recorded in the judicial district thereof in which the property was
situated at the time they were executed are hereby validated," is sound
as applicable to this case.
The plain purpose of Congress was to give effect to mortgages of nonresidents, which had been, before the passage of the act, recorded in the
judicial district in which the property was situated at the time the mortgages were executed.
The act as so construed and applied was a valid exercise of Congressional
power, and in circumstances like those of the present case, cannot be
justly impugned as depriving the attaching creditor of property within
the meaning of the Constitution.
The power of a legislature to pass laws giving validity which was before
ineffectual, is well settled.

IN the United States Court for the iNorthern District of the
Indian Territory, in April, 1897, an issue was tried between the
Evans-Snider-Buel Company, a corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Illinois, and William McFaddin & Son.
One J. R. Blocker was the owner and in possession of 6775 head
of cattle pasturing in the Indian Territory. McFaddin & Son
were judgment creditors of Blocker, and, as such, levied an attachment on said cattle. The Evans-Snider-Buel Company filed
a proceeding by way of interpleader in the attachment suit,
claiming to have a prior lien on said cattle by means of certain
mortgages given by said Blocker, who, as shown by the mortgages themselves, as well as the testimony in the case, was a

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

resident of Bexar County, Texas, in which county some of the
mortgages relied on had been duly executed and recorded.
The cattle in question were grazing in the Creek Nation, Indian
Territory, and the mortgages were again recorded in the
Northern District of the Indian Territory, at Muskogee and in
the Creek Nation. The cattle at the time of the levy were in
the possession of Blocker, the mortgagor.
After the filing of the interpleader, and on January 29,1897,
a judgment was entered against the defendant Blocker, in the
sum of $55,875.71, and sustaining the attachment. There were
several trials in the case, but at the last trial in the iNorthern
District, where the plaintiffs, McFaddin & Son, for the second
time lost their suit, it was agreed that in case the judgment
should be reversed by the United States Court of Appeals for
the Indian Territory, judgment should be rendered against the
Evans-Snider-Buel Company, the interpleader. The judgment
was reversed by that court, and, pursuant to said agreement, on
the 4th day of January, 1900, judgment was entered against
the interpleader and its bondsmen for the sum of $72,250.35.
From that judgment the interpleader prosecuted its writ of
error to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit.
At the time the attachment was levied upon the cattle in
controversy the following laws in relation to the registration of
chattel mortgages were in force in the Indian Territory, being
sections 4742 and 4743 of Mansfield's Digest:
"SEC. 4742. All mortgages, whether for real or personal
estate, shall be proved or acknowledged in the same manner
that deeds for the conveyance of real estate are now required
by law to be proved or acknowledged; and when so proved or
acknowledged shall be recorded-if for lands, in the county or
counties in which the lands lie, and if for personal property, in
the county in which the mortgagor resides.
"SEc. 4743. Every mortgage, whether for real or personal
property, shall be a lien on the mortgaged property, from the
time the same is filed in the recorder's office for record, and not
before; which filing shall be notice to all persons of the existence of such mortgage."

MeFADDIN v. EVANS-SNIDER-BUEL

CO.

Opinion of the Court.

As before stated, the attachment in this case was sustained
on the 29th day of January, 1897. On February 3, 1897,
Congress amended the law above quoted by an enactment which
reads as follows:
" Section 4742 of Mansfield's Digest of the Laws of Arkansas,
heretofore put in force in the Indian Territory, is hereby
amended by adding to said section the following: Provided,
that if the mortgagor is a non-resident of the Indian Territory
the mortgage shall be recorded in the judicial district in which
the property is situated at the time the mortgage is executed.
All mortgages of personal property in the Indian Territory
heretofore executed and recorded in the judicial district thereof
in which the property was situated at the time they were executed are hereby validated." Stat. 1896-7, p. 510.
On November 19, 1900, the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit filed an opinion and judgment,
Sanborn, J., dissenting, reversing the judgment of the United
States Court of Appeals in the Indian Territory, and affirming
the judgment of the United States Court for the Northern District of the Indian Territory. Whereupon a writ of error was
allowed and the cause brought to this court.
XiTh. William T. tchings for plaintiffs in error. .M. J.
P. Clayton and Xi. l 7 ayoleon B. ifaxey were on his brief.
I

Xq. H. X. Pollard and Xr. U. X. Rose for defendant in
error. AY?. TF B. Hemingway was on their brief.
IMR. JUSTI E SHIRAS, after making the above statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The controversy in this case is between mortgagee creditors
and judgment creditors of John R. Blocker. The mortgages
were given to secure the payment of notes executed by Blocker
to the amount of about $130,000, which were held by the EvansSnider-Buel Company, and represented money that had been
advanced by that company to Blocker to enable him to purchase
the cattle embraced in the mortgage. The mortgages were

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

recorded, within a day or two after their execution, in the
clerk's office of the United States Court for the Northern District
of the Indian Territory, that being the district in which the
mortgaged property was situated.
William McFaddin & Son had obtained a judgment against
Blocker in Jefferson County, Texas, in May, 1887, and on
June 17, 1896, they sued out an attachment on that judgment
in the United States Court for the Northern District of the
Indian Territory, and levied on the cattle described in the
mortgages.
It is not denied that McFaddin & Son had actual knowledge
of the existence of the mortgages at the time they sued out
their writ of attachment. Indeed, it appears that the description of the cattle was taken by their attorneys from the record
of the mortgages before the attachment was issued.
But it is claimed that, under the laws of the State of Arkansas,
in force by act of Congress in the Indian Territory, as construed
by the Supreme Court of Arkansas, the mortgages as recorded
did not constitute a lien on the property described as against
third parties, although they had actual notice of their existence,
and that as McFaddin & Son had levied their attachment and
obtained judgment against Blocker before the act of Congress
of February 3, 1897, validating the mortgages and their record,
was passed, such legislation was invalid and ineffectual to postpone the lien of the attachment and judgment to the lien of the
mortogages.
Elaborate arguments, oral and written, have been advanced,
pro and contra, on the propositions that an attaching creditor
is not a purchaser for value; that an unrecorded deed or mortgage creating a lien will take precedence over a subsequent attachment; that notice to a subsequent purchaser of an unrecorded mortgage is conclusive evidence of mala tdes on his
part; that a chattel mortgage, not fraudulent as to creditors,
made in good faith to secure an honest debt, is at common law
superior to a subsequent attachment of the same property by a
creditor of the mortgagor; that actual notice is equivalent in
law to constructive notice. But as we are of opinion that the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, sustaining the validity

McFADDIN v. EVANS-SNIDER-BUEL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

of the act of February 3, 1897, as applicable to the present case,
is sound, we do not consider it necessary to discuss the other
propositions urged upon us by the counsel of the defendants in
error.
The Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution, which
declares that "no person shall be deprived of life, liberty or
-property without due process of law," is a limitation on the
power of Congress, and the question is open whether the act in
question, held applicable by the Circuit Court of Appeals to the
present case, deprived the plaintiffs in error of property within
the meaning of that Amendment.
We think it is impossible to successfully contefid that the act
of Congress, when it in terms declared that "all mortgages of
personal property in the Indian Territory heretofore executed
and recorded in the judicial district thereof in which the property was situated at the time they were executed, are hereby

validated", can be construed as intended to apply only to mortgages made after the passage of the act, and had no retroactive
effect. Such a construction was adopted by the Court of
Appeals of.the Indian Territory, and was approved by the dissenting judge in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit. But the language of the enactment is- too express to
permit such a view. The plain purpose of Congress was to
give effect to mortgages of non-residents which had been,
before the passage of the act, recorded in the judicial district in
which the property was situated at the time the mortgages were
executed.
We think, therefore, that the trial court and the Circuit Court
of Appeals were right in holding that the act of February 3,
1897, was applicable to the mortgages of the defendants in error,
and we are to inquire whether the act, as so construed and applied, was a valid exercise of Congressional power.
The contention on behalf of the plaintiffs in error is that by
the judgment in default against Blocker on January 29, 1897,
they obtained a vested interest in the cattle seized under the
writ of attachment, which could not be impaired by the subsequent legislative enactment of February 3, 1897.
But it is to be observed that the only issues determined by

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

that judgment were those between McFaddin & Son, the attaching creditors, and Blocker, the judgment debtor. Thereby
any controversy as to the indebtedness and the existence of
proper grounds of attachment were, as to those parties, concluded. But this judgment by default did not preclude the
Evans-Snider-Buel Company from denying the right of the
atLaching creditors to a lien prior to that of the mortgages.
That was an issue that was still pending and undetermined when
the act of February 3,1897, was approved. Accordingly, when
the issue between the two classes of creditors came on to be tried
in the United States Court for the Northern District of the
Indian Territory the only question was as to the priority of the
respective liens. It was not denied that the mortgages constituted valid liens as against Blocker, the mortgagor, nor was it
denied that the mortgages had been recorded in the district in
which the mortgaged property was situated, before the attachment was levied on the mortgaged property. That the money
secured by the mortgages was advanced to Blocker and used by
him in the purchase of the cattle, and that the attaching creditors had actual knowledge of the existence of the mortgages
before they sued out the writ of attachment, were also admitted
facts.
What was claimed was, that the record of the mortgages was
ineffective as notice thereof to the attaching creditors, because
the mortgagor was a non-resident of the Indian Territory when
the mortgages were given, and that, under the registry law then
in force, the mortgages of a non-resident, though in fact recorded, did not constitute liens as against third parties.
To this contention the mortgagees pleaded the curative act of
February 3, 1897, whereby it was provided that mortgages of
non-residents of the Indian Territory should be recorded in the
judicial district in which the property was situated, and that
all mortgages of personal property in the Indian Territory theretofore executed and recorded in the judicial district thereof in
which the property was situated at the time they were executed
were thereby validated.
As we have already stated, the trial court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit held that the act of

McFADDIN v. EVANS-SNIDER-BUEL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

February 3, 1897, was applicable to the case in hand, and, as a
valid exercise of power, was decisive of the controversy.
The condition of the plaintiffs in error is very different from
that of a purchaser for a valuable consideration without notice
of an alleged prior incumbrance. It cannot be said that they
parted with any money or other valuable consideration in reliance upon the disclosures of the registry record. The indebtedness of Blocker to them had accrued years before; and if the
record did not, under the decisions of the Arkansas Supreme
Court, give them constructive notice of the existence of the
mortgage debts, it is admitted to have given them the actual
knowledge upon which they proceeded in suing out the writ of
attachment. The judgment in their favor in the attachment suit,
though conclusive as against Blocker, gave them no property
rights in the cattle as against the mortgagees, and if their attempt to appropriate the mortgaged property is defeated, they
are in no worse position than if the defendants in error had not
advanced the money with which the cattle were purchased.
If the problem were made to turn upon the equities between
the two classes of creditors, the solution would be an easy one.
With the legal title to the property in the common debtor, no
court of equity would prefer the lien of a mere attachment to
that of a prior mortgage given to secure the money advanced
to purchase the property, if the attachment creditor had actual
knowledge of the existence and nature of the mortgage.
And we agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals, that while
it is not necessary to enter into the question of the comparative
equities of the parties, yet, when the validity of the curative act
is to be passed upon, that, in circumstances like those of the
present dase, the act cannot be justly impugned as depriving the
attaching creditor of property within the meaning of the Constitution.
In -F'eebornv. Smith, 2 Wall. 160, the facts were these:
Smith had obtained a judgment against Freeborn in the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Nevada. To this judgment a writ of
error went from this court, under the law organizing the Territory, and the record of the case was filed in this court, December
term, 1862. After the case was thus removed the Territory

OCTOBER TERAM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

was admitted by act of Congress, March, 1861, into the Union
as a State. The act admitting the Territory contained, however, no provision for the disposal of cases then pending in this
court on writ of error or appeal from the territorial courts.
Motion was made, in behalf of the defendants in error, to dismiss the writ, on the ground that the territorial government
having been extinguished by the formation of a state government in its stead, and the act of Congress which extinguished
it having, in no way, saved the jurisdiction of the court as previously existing, nothing further could be done here. It was
urged that the territorial judiciary had fallen with the government of which it was part; and that the jurisdiction of this
court had ceased with the termination of the act conferring it.
It being suggested, on the other side, that a bill was pending
in Congress supplying the omissions of the act of March, 18647,
the hearing of the motion for dismissal was suspended till it
was seen what Congress would do. Congress finally acted, and
on February 27, 1865, passed an act providing that all cases of
appeal or writ of error theretofore prosecuted, and then pending in the Supreme Court of the United States from the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Nevada, might be heard and determined by the Supreme Court of the United States, and providing for mandatory process, etc. The motion to dismiss the writ
for want of jurisdiction was then renewed, on the ground that
the amendatory act was a retrospective enactment interfering
with vested rights, and as an attempt to confer on this court
jurisdiction to review a judgment which, by law, at the time of
its passage, was final and absolute. This court, through Mr.
Justice Grier, thus disposed of the contention:
"It is objected to the act of February 27, just passed, that it
is ineffectual for the purpose intended by it; that it is a retrospective act, interfering directly with vested rights; that the
result of maintaining it would be to disturb and impair judgments which, at the time of its passage, were final and absolute;
that the powers of Congress are strictly legislative, and this is
an exercise of judicial power, which Congress is not competent
to exercise.
"But we are of opinion that these objections are not well

MCFADDIN v. EVANS-SNIDER-BUEL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

founded.

'What obstacle was in the way of legislation

to supply the omission to make provision for such cases in the
original act? If it comes within the category of retrospective
legislation, as has been argued, we find nothing in the Constitution limiting the power of Congress to amend or correct
omissions in preyious acts. It is well settled that where there
is no direct constitutional prohibition, a State may pass retrospective laws, such as, in their operation, may affect suits
pending, and give to a party a remedy which he did not previously possess, or modify an existing remedy, or remove an
impediment in the way of legal proceedings.

Such acts

are of a remedial nature, and are the peculiar subject of legislation. They are not liable to the imputation of being assumptions of judicial power."
The power of a legislature to pass laws giving validity to past
deeds which were before ineffectual is well settled. Thus in
Watson v. Mercer, 8 Pet. 100, the title to land in controversy
was originally in Margaret Mercer, the wife of James Mercer.
For the purpose of transferring the title to the husband, they
conveyed to a third person, who immediately conveyed to James
Mercer. The deed of Mercer and wife bore date of May 30,
1785. It was fatally defective as to the wife, in not having
been acknowledged by her in conformity with the provisions of
the statute of Pennsylvania of 1770, touching the conveyance
of real estate byfemmes covert. She died without issue. James
Mercer died leaving children by a former marriage. After the
death of both parties, her heirs sued his heirs in ejectment for
the premises, and recovered. The Supreme Court of the State
affirmed the judgment. In 1826 the legislature passed an act
which cured the defective acknowledgment of Margaret Mercer, and gave the same validity to the deed as if it had been
well executed originally on her part. The heirs of James
Mercer thereupon sued her heirs and recovered back the same
premises. This judgment was also affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State, and that judgment of affirmance was affirmed
by this court.
Watson v. Mercer was cited and followed by this court in
Randall v. Yreiger, 23 Wall. 137, where it was held that it was
VOL. CiTXXxV-33

OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

competent for the legislature to validate a defective power of
attorney to convey land.
Similar principles were recognized in Terry v. Anderson, 95
U. S. 628; Freeland v. Tilliams, 131 U. S. 405; Baker's Exeeutors v. JKilgore, 145 U. S. 487; Louisiana v. .New Orleans,
109 U. S. 285. The case of G-reen v. Abraham, 43 Ark. 420,
was cited in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals. There
a mortgage improperly acknowledged had been placed of record,
which by reason of the defective acknowledgment was not notice
to subsequent purchasers or lienors. Afterwards the mortgaged
property was attached under a writ against the mortgagor, and
thereafter the legislature validated the record of the mortgage.
The mortgagee having proceeded in replevin to recover the attached property from one who claimed it under the attachment,
it was held by the Supreme Court of Arkansas that the interest
of the attaching creditor in the attached property was not
vested, but could be, and that it was in fact displaced by the
subsequent enactment validating the record of the mortgage.
Without pursuing the subject further, our conclusion is that
no property rights of the plaintiffs in error were impaired by
the act of February 3, 1897. Their judgment against Blocker
remained unaffected, and the lien of the writ of attachment
was not destroyed, but continued to hold any surplus that might
have remained after the satisfaction of the mortgage liens.
They have no just ground in constitutional law to complain of
the action of Congress in giving legal effect to the equitable
lien of the mortgages.
Approving the careful opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit, reported in vol. 105 Fed. Rep. 293, the
judgment of that court is
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

GRAY ana MR. JUSTICE WHITE took no part in

the decision.

See volume 186 for decisions without opinions for the time
covered by this volume.

