SOUTHWESTERN COAL CO. v. McBRIDE.
Statement of the Case.

instruction to the jury, that Ross must have been not only a
bonafide resident of the Territory but a citizen of the United
States, when the cutting of the timber was done, he believed it
to be a true expression of the law applicable to the case under
the pleadings. It is plain that in the view of the judge when
the case was submitted to the jury, he thought there was evidence upon which a jury might find the fact of the citizenship of
Ross. His subsequent statement made upon the refusal to grant
a new trial, which inferentially, perhaps, admits that there was
not sufficient evidence to show that Ross was such citizen, leaves
a foundation for the belief that there was room upon the evidence for a difference of opinion in regard to th'at fact. However
that may be, the record is in such a state that we cannot say
that all the evidence given upon the trial is contained in the bill
of exceptions, and, therefore, we cannot say that there was no
evidence of the residence, and of the citizenship of Ross, upon
which the verdict of the jury might be sustained. If there
were evidence that Ross was a citizen and a bon&fide resident,
it is admitted that the verdict could not be disturbed by this
court. There may have been evidence upon both propositions
sufficient to sustain the verdict.
The judgment must, therefore, be
Affl'wmd.

SOUTHWESTERN COAL COMPANY v. McBRIDE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 230. Argued April 21, 1902.-Decided May 19, 1902.

The act of Congress, approved June 28, 1898, known as the Curtis Act. did
not operate to deprive the lessors of coal mines in the Choctaw Nation of
royalties due and owing to them for coal mined under valid leases, prior
to that date.

THIS litigation was begun in the United States Court for the
Indian Territory, Central Judicial District, sitting at Atoka, by

OCTOBER TERMNE, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

the filing of a bill in equity on behalf of ilyram Y. M cBride, a
citizen of the Choctaw Nation. The defendants named in the
bill were the National Bank of Denison, the Southwestern Coal
and Improvement Company (hereafter referred to as the Coal
Company) and J. A. Randell, as administrator of the estate of
G. G. Randell, deceased. The Coal Company is an appellant
in this court, while McBride and Randell are the appellees. It
was averred in the bill that on April 6, 1894, the complainant
(McBride) was the owner of a three twenty-seconds share in a
certain coal or mining interest situated in the town of Coalgate,
Indian Territory, which coal claim was being operated, under
royalty contracts, by the Coal Company; that, to secure an indebtedness due by the complainant to the National Bank of
Denison, complainant had executed and delivered a mortgage
upon his aforesaid share; and that, under the assumed authority
of a power of sale contained in the mortgage and pursuant to a
combination between the bank and one G. G. Randell, a pm'ported sale of said share of complainant was made to said
Randell, but that said pretended sale, for various stated reasons,
was illegal and void. It was further averred that from the
time of said pretended sale the Coal Company had failed to
make payments of royalties due upon said share of complainant,
and was liable to account therefor. The prayer of the bill was,
in substance, that the sale in question be declared a nullity and
that the various defendants account to complainant in respect
to the royalties received and retained.
The bank filed its answer, and therein disclaimed having any
interest in the unpaid royalties claimed by complainant and
Randell, as administrator of G. G. Randell. In its answer the
Coal Company, among other things umiecessary to be stated,
admitted that it had withheld payments from March 1, 1897,
of royalties on the coal mining share referred to in the complaint, and averred that the amount of said unpaid royalties
aggregated $2617.29. The Coal Company also further specifically pleaded in its answer as follows:
"Defendant Coal Company further states that on the 28th
day of June, 1898, the President of the United States approved
an act entitled 'An act for the protection of the people of the

SOUTHWESTERN COAL CO. v. McBRIDE.
Statement of the Case.

Indian Territory, and for other purposes,' and which said act
of Congress is commonly known as the ' Curtis bill,' and by section sixteen of said act it was provided that it should be unlawfal for any person, after the passage of said act, except as otherwise provided therein, to claim, demand or receive for his own
use, or the use of any one else, any royalty on coal, or any rents
on any lands or property belonging to any one of said tribes or
nations in said Territory, or for any one to pay to any individual
any such royalty or rents or any consideration therefor, whatsoever.
"And that by virtue of the provisions of said act of Congress
hereinabove referred to, on and after the 28th day of June,
1898, no royalties accrued to any person upon this said interest
claimed by the plaintiff in said mines; and that by virtue of
the provisions of said act of Congress, hereinabove referred to,
the royalty which accrued upon said interest so claimed by the
plaintiff in said mines and which said Coal Company had not
paid over to said defendant bank in accordance with plaintiff's
instructions, is no longer due and payable to the said plaintiff
or any person claiming under him, and cannot be claimed, demanded or received by the plaintiff, or any other person; and
that by virtue of section eighteen of said act of Congress, hereinabove referred to, any person claiming, demanding or receiving any of the royalties which the plaintiff claims accrued upon
the interest claimed by him in said coal mines, becomes guilty
of a misdemeanor, which is punishable by a fine of not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00,) and is liable to forfeit possession
of the property in question."
A written stipulation was 'thereafter entered into between
the complainant and the defendant Randell, administrator,
wherein it was agreed that the complainant was entitled to
$900 of the sum admitted by the Coal Company to be unpaid,
and that the said defendant administrator was entitled to the
remainder, or the sum of $1717.29. Upon the pleadings in the
cause and the stipulation referred to, a motion for judgment
against the Coal Company for $2617.29 was filed on behalf of
the complainant and said defendant administrator. The motion
was granted, and a judgment was entered accordingly. An

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals for the Indian Territory, and that court affirmed the judgment. 54 Southwestern Rep. 1099. The judgment of affirmance was in favor
of McBride and Rlandell, administrator, against the Coal Company and the sureties on its supersedeas bond (Clarence W.
Turner and Homer B. Spaulding,) for the amount of the original
judgment, with interest and costs. An appeal was then prosecuted by the Coal Company, and Turner and Spaulding to
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. That court affirmed the judgments, (104 Fed. Rep. 1007,)
and the cause was then appealed to this court.
3fr. James Hagermanfor appellant. _. Clifford 1. Jackson and -Mr. Joseph 3f. Bryson were on his brief.
No counsel appeared for appellee.
MI. JUSTICE WITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The sole question presented for the consideration of the
courts below and necessary to be passed upon by this court
was, and is, Did the act of Congress, approved June 28, 1898,
known as the Curtis Act, operate to deprive the lessors of coal
mines in the Choctaw Nation of the royalties due and owing to
them for coal mined under validleases prior to the date named?
The question necessarily requires a construction of section 16 of
the act, which reads as follows:
"SEC. 16. That it shall be unlawful for any person, after the
passage of this act, except as hereinafter provided, to claim,
demand or receive, for his own use or for the use of any one
else, any royalty on oil, coal, asphalt or other mineral, or on any
timber or lumber, or any other kind of property whatsoever, or
any rents on any lands or property belonging to any one of said
tribes or nations in said Territory, or for any one to pay to any
individual any such royalty or rents or any consideration therefor whatsoever; and all royalties and rents hereafter payable
to the tribe shall be paid, under such rules and regulations as

SOUTHWE STERN COAL CO. v. McBRIDE.
Opinion of the Court.

may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior, into the
Treasury of the United States to the credit of the tribe to which
they belong: P'ovided, That where any citizen shall be in
possession of only such amount of agricultural or grazing lands
as would be his just and reasonable share of the lands of his
nation or tribe and that to which his wife and minor children
are entitled, he may continue to use the same or receive the
rents thereon until allotment has been made to him: Provided,
farther, That nothing herein contained shall impair the rights
of any member of a tribe to dispose of any timber contained on
his, her or their allotment."
A particular consideration of section 18 of the act, referred to
in the answer of the Coal Company, is not required, as the
section merely provided for the punishment of any person convicted for violating any of the provisions of sections 16 and 17
of the act.
On the part of the appellants it is contended that the section
in question is retrospective in its operation and inhibits the collection of royalties due and owing at the time of the approval
of the Curtis Act, even though such royalties, had the statute
in question not been passed, might lawfully have been collected
by the lessors to whom it had been agreed the same should be
paid. The Circuit Court of Appeals, however, sustained the
contention that the provisions of the section in question had
only a prospective operation, and in so doing we think no error
was committed. We adopt the reasoning of thelcourt below on
the subject. The court said (104: Fed. Rep. 473):
"The function of the legislature is to prescribe rules to
operate upon the actions and rights of citizens in the future.
While, in the absence of a constitutional inhibition, the legislature may give to some of its acts a retrospective operation, the
intention to do so must be clearly expressed, or necessarily
implied from what is expressed; and, assuming the legislature
to possess the power, its act will not be construed to impair or
destroy a vested right under a valid contract unless it is so framed
as to preclude any other interpretation. If Congress had
intended to deprive lessors of the royalties due and owing to
them at the date of the act it would have used appropriate

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

language to express that intention, and would necessarily have
made some provision for the disposition of such royalties. But
it is clear from the language of the act that it does not deal
with royalties already paid, or already due and owing to lessors
under leases for coal already mined.
.
.
Congress, by the
Curtis Act, neither attempted nor intended to interfere with
the rights of lessors to royalties due them under their leases at
the date of the passage of the act."
It is asserted in the brief of counsel for the appellants that
the contract under which the royalties in question became due
was made under authority of a tribal law of the Choctaw Nation,
and we are asked to assume that the authority to make the
lease in question was not either directly or indirectly conferred
by Congress, and that in consequence the contract was of no
validity by reason of section 2116 of the Revised Statutes,
wherein, among other things, it is declared that "no purchase,
grant, lease, or other conveyance of lands, or of any title or
claim thereto, from any Indian nation or tribe of Indians, shall
be of any validity in law or equity, unless the same be made by
treaty or convention entered into pursuant to the Constitution."
We do not decide this contention, in view of the fact that it
does not appear to have been raised or considered in the courts
below, and it is besides entirely inconsistent with the answer of
the Coal Company, wherein it is substantially conceded that the
lease in question was valid in its inception, and that the unpaid
royalties would have been due and owing to the lessor or his
assigns, but for the effect of the alleged nullifying provisions of
section 16 of the Curtis Act.
Judgment affirmed.

