OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

measured in the expediente. The courts of the Territory had
held that the lands enclosed were public lands of the United
States, that Cameron had unlawfully enclosed the same, and
the removal of the fence enclosing the land was ordered. On
appeal, however, this court, while expressly disclaiming any intention to pass upon the validity of the asserted title of Cameron, held that there was color of title sufficient to take the
case outside of the operation of the statute, reversed the judgment against Cameron, and remanded the case with directions
to dismiss the petition. 148 U. S. 301. It is clear that, irrespective of the question of parties, the matter passed upon in
the fence case was not the same as that which is present in the
case at bar. The fence case did not involve, as does the case
at bar, the question whether or not the claimant had a valid
title to land within the boundaries of the alleged grant, and
hence nothing decided in that case was conclusive in this.
Decree qfirmed.

COYINGTON v. COVINGTON FIRST NATIONAL
BANK.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 604. Argued and submitted March 24, 1902.-Decided April 28, 1902.
Matters within the pleadings in this case having been left undetermined
by the court below, and the cause having been detained for the purpose
of thereafter passing upon them, and for the entry of a further decree,
the decree entered below was not final, and this court is without juris-

diction to pass upon it.

Ox July 23, 1900, the appellee herein filed a bill seeking to
enjoin the threatened assessment and collection by the defendants below (appellants here) of municipal taxes under the assumed authority of an act of the general assembly of the State
of Kentucky approved larch 21, 1900, a copy of which is excerpted in the margin.'
1 "Whereas the Supreme Court of the United States has lately decided

COVINGTON v. COVINGTON FIRST NAT'L BANK. 271
Statement of the Case.
In substance, it was averred in the original bill and in an
amendment thereto that the complainant was chartered on
that article three, chapter one hundred and three of the acts eighteen
hundred and ninety-one, eighteen hundred and ninety-two, eighteen hundred and ninety-three is void and of no effect in so far as the same provides for the taxation of the franchise of national banks, in consequence
of which decision there is not now and has not been since adoption of
said article, in eighteen hundred and ninety-two, any adequate mode of
taxing national banks, while state banks are now, and have been ever since
eighteen hundred and ninety-two, taxable for all purposes, state and local;
therefore
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky:
"SEc. 1. That the shares of stock in each national bank of this State
shall be subject to taxation for all state purposes, and shall be subject
to taxation for the purposes of each county, city, town and taxing district in which the bank is located.
"SEC. 2. For purposes of the taxation provided for by the next preceding section, it shall be the duty of the president and the cashier of the
bank to list the said shares of stock with the assessing officers authorized to assess real estate for taxation, and the bank shall be and remain
liable to the State, county, city, town and district for the taxes upon said
shares of stock.
"SEc. 3. When any of said shares of stock have not been listed for taxation for any of said purposes under levy or levies of any year or years
since the adoption of the revenue law of eighteen hundred and ninety-two,
it shall be the duty of the president and cashier to list the same for taxation under said levy or levies; provided, that where any national bank
has heretofore, for any year or years, paid taxes upon its franchise as provided in article three of the revenue law of eighteen hundred and ninetytwo, said bank shall be excepted from the operation of this section as to
said year or years; and provided further, that where any national bank
has heretofore, for any year or years, paid state taxes under the Hewitt
bill in excess of the state taxes required by this act for the same year or
years, said bank shall be entitled to credit by said excess upon its state
taxes required by this act.
"S1Sc. 4. All assessments of shares of stock contemplated by this act
shall be entered upon the assessor's books, certified and reported by the
assessing officers as assessments of real estate are entered, certified and
reported, and the same shall be certified to the proper collecting officers
for collection as assessments of real estate are certified for collection of
taxes thereon.
" SEC. 5. The assessments of said shares of stock and collection of taxes
thereon, as contemplated by this act, may be enforced as assessment of real
estate and collection of taxes thereon may be enforced.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

:November 17, 1884, for a term of twenty years; that in 1886,
by the acceptance of the provisions of an act of the general assembly of Kentucky, approved fay 17, 1886, known as the
Hewitt Act, a contract was entered into with the State of Kentucky, irrevocable during the existence of the charter of the
bank, whereby the complainant became obligated to pay to
the State taxes upon the shares of its stock, surplus and undivided profits at a designated rate, such taxes to be in full of all
other taxes (state, county or municipal,) except those levied
upon its real property ; that complainant had regularly made
the payments stipulated in said contract up to and including
the payment due July 1, 1900; that the taxes thus paid much
exceeded the regular taxes imposed by the State during said
period upon other real and personal property; and that the
fact of the existence of an irrevocable contract had been conclusively determined by the judgment and decree of the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky in a litigation between the bank and
the State and the city of Covington, growing out of an attempt
to collect state and city taxes upon the franchise of the bank,
under the authority of an act of the general assembly of Kentucky, approved November 11, 1892. It was also averred that
notwithstanding the foregoing the general assembly of Kentucky enacted the statute of 'March 21, 1900, already referred
to, and that the defendants were attempting, under the assumed
authority of said act, to compel complainant to list for taxation
its shares of stock, and that the defendants designed and intended to assess said shares and to collect municipal taxes
thereon for the benefit of the city of Covington for the years
1893 to 1900, both inclusive.
At much length facts were detailed in the bill and amendment regarding a reduction of the capital stock of the com"SEc. 6. The purpose of this act is to place national banks of this State,
with respect to taxation, upon the same footing as state banks as nearly as
may be consistently with said article three of the revenue law and *aid decision of the Supreme Court.
"SEc. 7. Whereas, it is important that state banks and national banks
should be taxed equally for all purposes, and an emergency exists, this
act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage."

COVINGTON v. COVINGTON FIRST NAT'L BANK. 273
Statement of the Case.

plainant made in July, 1897, as to the regular payments of
dividends to stockholders during the years for which the tax
was sought to be assessed and collected and as to changes in
the ownership of the stock during said period. The unconstitutionality of the statute and the illegality of the threatened
proceedings thereunder were asserted upon various grounds.
The defendants filed a plea to the jurisdiction and also demurred for want of equity. A motion for a temporary injunction was heard and granted, the court embodying its views in
an elaborate opinion. 103 Fed. Rep. 523. The order for the
temporary injunction concluded as follows:
"It is ordered, adjudged and decreed by the court that the
defendants and each of them, until the further order of the
court, is enjoined and restrained from making, either against
the complainant or any holder of its shares, any assessment or
levy of any taxes upon the shares of complainant's capital
stock for any purpose for any time or period previous to
March 21, 1900; and the said defendants, until the further
order of the court herein, are also restrained from collecting,
either from the complainant or from any of the holders of the
shares of its capital stock, any taxes upon said shares upon
any assessment or levy to be made therefor for any time subsequent to that date. Defendants are left at liberty to make
assessments of said shares for taxation for any proper time or
period after March 21, 1900, but not to make any collection of
the taxes so assessed until the court shall have determined from
the evidence whether the taxes so assessed are at a higher rate
than is permitted by law and to what extent."
The complainant thereupon moved that the injunction be
made permanent, and by stipulation the cause was submitted
to the court "upon said motion, and also upon the plea of the
defendants to the jurisdiction of the court, and also upon their
demurrer to the bill of complaint," it being agreed that "if
the said plea and said demurrer are both disallowed and overruled, then the cause is submitted for the judgment of the court
as upon a final hearing, the bill then to be taken for confessed,
and further delay thereon being waived."
On December 17, 1900, the following decree was entered:
VOL. CLXXXV-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

"This cause came on to be further heard at this term and
was argued by counsel; and thereupon, upon consideration
thereof and of the stipulation filed herein, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed as follows, namely:
" First. That the plea of the defendants to the jurisdiction
of the court be, and the same is, disallowed and overruled.
"Second. That the bill of complaint, as amended and to
which the demurrer and plea were considered as applying, is
sufficient and contains matters of equity meet to be considered by the court, and the demurrer thereto is also disallowed
and overruled.
"Third. Upon the reasons given in the opinion of the court
heretofore filed herein, and upon other good and sufficient reasons appearing to the court, it is further ordered, adjudged and
decreed by the court that the defendants and each of them are
perpetually enjoined and restrained from making, either against
the complainant or any holder of its shares any assessment or
levy of any taxes upon any of the shares of complainant's capital stock for any purpose for any time or period previous to
March 21, 1900, and the said defendants, until the further order of the court herein, are also restrained from collecting,
either from the complainant or from any of the holders of the
shares of the capital stock, any taxes upon any of said shares,
upon any assessment or levy to be made therefor for any time
subsequent to that date. The defendants are left at liberty to
make assessments of and upon said shares for taxation for any
proper time or period after March 21, 1900, but not to make
any collection of taxes so assessed until the court shall have
determined, upon further pleadings and evidence herein, should
the defendants elect to present the same, whether the taxes so
assessed are at a higher rate than is permitted by law, and to
what extent.
"Fourth. And the court hereby retains control of this cause
for the purpose of adjudicating and settling any question which
may arise upon any assessment made upon any of the shares of
the capital stock of the complainant at any time between the
entry of this judgment and the expiration of the present and
existing articles of incorporation of the complainant."

COVINGTON v. COVINGTON FIRST NAT'L BANK. 275
Opinion of the Court.

An application for the allowance of an appeal was filed by
the city of Covington and Middendorf; and an assignment of
errors was also filed on behalf of said defendants, the grounds,
as stated therein, being reproduced in the margin.'
An order allowing the appeal as prayed was made. No appeal was prayed by the complainant.
.r. Assistant Attorney General P'radtfor the United States
submitted on his brief, on which was also Xibr. Philip AM. Ashford.
i r. Charles C. Lancaster for Van Duzee.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

It is apparent that the bill as amended sought by injunction
to prevent the collection of taxes on the shares of stock of the
bank for the years 1893 to 1900, both inclusive, and indeed it
is obvious from the decree that the court considered the case
also involved the question whether any other than the taxes
provided by the Hewitt Act could be imposed upon the bank
during the remainder of its corporate existence. The relief
1 " Come now the defendants and each of them and file the following assignment of errors, upon which they and each of them will rely:
"First. The court erred in overruling the defendants' plea to the jurisdiction of the court.
"Second. The court erred in holding the bill of complaint as amended,
to which the plea and demurrer were considered as applying, sufficient,
and in overruling the demurrer of the defendants thereto.
"Third. The court erred in enjoining the defendants and each of them
from assessing the shares of stock in complainant bank, and from levying
taxes thereon for any purpose for any time or period previous to March 21,
1900, and erred in enjoining and restraining the collection of any taxes,
either from the complainant bank or from any of the holders of the shares
of the capital stock of said bank, for any time subsequent to that date.
"Fourth. The court erred in retaining control of this cause for any purpose.
" Fifth. The court erred in decreeing costs herein against defendant.
"Sixth. The court erred in decreeing any injunction or restraining order
herein, and in not dismissing complainant's bill of complaint."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

sought was based upon the following grounds: 1. There was a
contract with the bank by which the taxes authorized by the
act of 1900 could not be levied without impairing the obligation of such contract. 2. The existence of this contract and its
binding efficacy was concluded by the thing adjudged. 3. The
tax provided by the act of 1900 was discriminatory and repugnant to section 5219 of the Revised Statutes. Now, although the Circuit Court enjoined the assessment and collection
of taxes for the years prior to March 21, 1900, it did so, not
upon the consideration and determination of the questions of
contract or res adjudicatt, but solely upon the question of discrimination. So far, however, as any taxes subsequent to
March 21, 1900, were concerned, they were not disposed of,
for the decree expressly provided as follows:
"The defendants are at liberty to make assessments of and
upon said shares for taxation for any proper time or period after
March 21, 1900, but not to make any collection of taxes so assessed until the court shall have determined, upon further pleadings and evidence herein, should the defendant elect to present
the same, whether the taxes so assessed are at a higher rate than
is permitted by law, and to what extent.
"Fourth. And the court hereby retains control of this cause
for the purpose of adjudicating and settling any question which
may arise upon any assessment made upon any of the shares of
the capital stock of the complainant at any time between the
entry of this judgment, and the expiration of the present and
existing articles of incorporation of the complainant."
Whilst the decree on its face thus unambiguously discloses
that the court did not finally dispose of the entire controversy
made by the pleadings, an inspection of the opinion of the court
makes it perfectly clear that the court did not intend to and did
not dispose of the entire controversy which was involved in the
cause.
The only opinion pronounced was that rendered on the decision made upon the application for a preliminary injunction.
Though in that opinion some reference was made by the court
to the contentions of contract and res adjudicata,the court expressly declared that it would not make a "final expression on

COVINGTON v. COVINGTON FIRST NA'r"L BANK. 2V7
Opinion of the Court.

the question," but would leave that subject open for further consideration. And when the court came to render the decree
which is appealed from, making the injunction permanent, although it in substance reiterated the provisions of the order allowing the preliminary injunction, it added thereto the fourth
paragraph, expressly retaining the cause "for the purpose of
adjudicating and settling any question which may arise upon
any assessment made upon any of the shares of the capital stock
of the complainant, at any time between the entry of this judgment and the expiration of the present and existing articles of
incorporation of the complainant."
The court below, in effect, having reserved for future determination the right of the complainant below to enjoin the collection of a municipal tax for 1900, and subsequent years, this
court obviously cannot decide that controversy. Matters within the pleadings having been left undetermined and the cause
having been retained for the purpose of thereafter passing on
them and for the entry of a further decree, the decree entered
was not final. _XcGourkey v. Toledo & Ohio Central Railway,
146 U. S. 536, 545, 546, and cases cited. As a necessary result this court cannot adjudicate upon the contention respecting that portion of the issue which was actually determined by
the Circuit Court, because a decree of a Circuit Court upon the
merits can be reviewed here only by appeal, which cannot be
taken until after a final decree.has been made disposing of the
whole cause. The case is not to be brought here in fragments
by successive appeals. Southern Railway Co. v. Postal Telegraph Cable Co., 179 U. S. 641, 644, and cases cited.
Appeal dismissed.

