OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court

business is actually transacted in court, and when they attend
under certain sections, in which sections 574 and 638 are not
inicluded.
For these reasons I am compelled to dissent from the opinion
of the court in this case.

I am instructed to say that M[R. JUSTICE WHITE and
concur in this dissent.

AIR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

IMiR. JUSTICE GRAY took no part in the decision of this case.

WASHINGTON STATE v. NORTHERN SECURITIES
COMPANY.
ORIGINAL.
Argued April 14, 1902.-Decided April 21, 1902.

In the exercise of original jurisdiction by this court the usual practice in
equity cases is to hear applications for leave to file bills, ex parte, and,
ordinarily, leave is granted as of course.
But this is not an invariable rule, and where it is apparent on the face of
the proposed bill that there is a defect of parties, which cannot be supplied without ousting the jurisdiction, leave will be denied.
Where the objection is one of jurisdiction over the subject-matter, and the
case is of grave importance, leave to file will be granted that the fullest
argument may be had.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.Mr. V B. Shratton for the motion.
was on his brief.

.'.

Wallace B. Douglas

.M1r. C. W. Bunn and Mr6. John T. Griggs opposing. M..
George B. Young and X6. -. D. Crover were on Mr. Bunn's
brief.
THE CHIEF

JUSTICE:

This is an application by the State of Washington for leave

WASHINGTON v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

255

Opinion of the Court.

to file an original bill in this court against the Northern Securities Company, a corporation of 1New Jersey; the Great Northern Railway Company, a corporation of Minnesota; and the
Northern Pacific Railway Company, a corporation of Wisconsin. Notice was given to the proposed defendants and argument
had in support of and against the motion.
The usual practice in equity cases has been to hear such applications exp
parte, Georgia v. Grant, 6 Wall. 241; although
under special circumstances a different course has been pursued.
.3ississivpiv. Johnson, 4 Wall. 4-75. Ordinarily, as stated by
the Chief Justice in the latter case, the motion for leave to file
is granted as matter of course. 4 Wall. 478.
In Georgia v. Stanton, 6 Wall. 50, a bill in equity was filed
by the State of Georgia to enjoin the Secretary of War and
other officers representing the Executive authority from carrying into execution certain acts of Congress, on the ground that
such execution would overthrow the existing state government
of the State and establish another and different one in its place;
and a motion was made to dismiss for want of jurisdiction over
the parties and over the subject-matter, on which full argument
was had. It was held that the bill called for the judgment of
the court on political grounds and on rights of a political character, and that, therefore, the court had no jurisdiction over the
subject-matter.
In Louisianav. Texas, 176 U. S. 1, the case stated shows that
"argument was had on objections to granting leave, but it appearing to the court the better course in this instance, leave
was granted, and the bill filed, whereupon defendants demurred,
and the cause was submitted on the oral argument already had
and printed briefs."
In .Minnesota v. NJorthern Securities Company, decided at
this term, 184 U. S.199, application to file a similar bill to that
before us, and seeking similar relief, was made, and after examining the bill we directed notice to be given and heard argument on both sides. The result was that leave to file was denied because of the want of certain indispensable parties, who
could not be brought in without defeating our constitutional
jurisdiction. That insuperable difficulty does not meet us on

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

the threshold here, but, among other objections to granting
leave, it is urged that the court would have no jurisdiction over
the subject-matter because, as contended, the bill does not present the case of a controversy of a civil nature, which is justiciable under the Constitution and laws of the United States, in
that the suit is purely a suit for the enforcement of "the local
law and policy of a sovereign and independent State, whose right
to make laws and to enforce them exists only within itself and
by means of its own agencies, and is limited to its own territory."
In the exercise of original jurisdiction the court has always
necessarily proceeded with the utmost care and deliberation,
and, in respect of all contested questions, on the fullest argument; and in the matter of practice we are obliged to bear in
mind, in an especial degree, the effect of every step taken in
the instant case on those which may succeed it. In view of
this it seems to us advisable to take the same course on the
pending application as was pursued in -Louisianav. Texas, that
is, without intimating any opinion whatever on the questions
suggested, to grant leave to file in accordance with the usual
practice. Our rules require service sixty days before the return
day of process, but as the final adjournment of the term will
have taken place within that time, process will be made returnable on the first day of next term.
Leave is grantedand process will issue accordingly.

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
CHRISTIE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
Nos. 109, 129. Argued January 27, 28, 1902.-Decided April 28, 1902.

The terms of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 854, (establishing the Court
of Private Land Claims), with reference to a proceeding like this, leave
no room for doubt that it was the intent of Congress to require that, be-

