LIVE STOCK CO. v. SPRINGER.
Statement of the Case.

up or claimed. The act does not in any event touch the point,
as it refers to those cases in which no patents had been given,
and does not cover the case where one had been issued and received in entire fulfillment of the obligations of the Government. As in our opinion the case involves no Federal question,
the motion to dismiss will be granted on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction.
Dismissed.

FRENCH-GLENN LIVE STOCK COMPANY v.
SPRINGER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 121. Argued January 20, 21, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.
& Federal question was presented by the contentions of the plaintiff in
error, and this court is of opinion, that while there was a lake abutting
on or to the north of the lots, the plaintiff would take all land between
the meander line and the water, and all accretions, it was competent for
the defendant to show that there was not, at the time of the survey, nor
since, any such lake, and to contend that, in such a state of facts there
could be no intervening land, and no accretion by reliction.

THis was an action brought, in 1896, in the Circuit Court of
Harney County, State of Oregon, by the French-Glenn Live
Stock Company, a corporation of the State of California, against
Alva Springer, to recover possession of a certain tract of land
situated in said county. The action was tried in May, 1897,
and resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of the defendant. The cause was subsequently taken to the Supreme Court
of Oregon, and by that court, on August 11, 1899, the judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed; and thereupon a writ
of error was allowed by the Chief Justice of that court, and the
cause was brought to this court.
The facts of the case, as developed at the trial, were thus
stated by the Supreme Court:

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

"The plaintiff, to support its contention of ownership of the
fee, offered in evidence, (1) the official plat of the United States
government survey of fractional township 26 south, range 31
east, of the Willamette meridian, showing the township rendered fractional by abutting upon the meander line along the
south side of Malheur Lake, which plat appears to have been
approved by the Land Department of the government and
filed in the local office on September 17, 1877; the plat shows
said lots as bounded on the north by the meander line of Malheur
Lake; (2) the field notes of the survey of the exterior boundaries of said township and its subdivisions, and the meander line
of M,alheur Lake, under the title heading, 'Meanders of the
south shore of Malheur Lake, through fractional township, 26,'
etc., and indicating that it was run ' with the meander of the
lake; ' (3) a list of selections of land, made by the agent of the
State of Oregon, claimed as swamp and overflowed, with the
approval of the Secretary of the Interior, bearing date September 19, 1889; (4)two patents from the United States, for said
lots 3 and 4, section 34, and 1 and 2, section 35, 'according to
the official plats of the survey of the said lands returned to the
General Land Office by the surveyor general.' The patents
bear date March 10, 1890, and October 8, 1891, respectively.
The lots contain, in the aggregate, 158.53 acres; (5) two conveyances from the State, comprising the above-described lots,
bearing date October 7, 1889, and April 30, 1890, respectively,
and other mesne conveyances to the plaintiff; and (6) oral evidence, tending to prove that in 1877, and for some years thereafter, Malheur Lake was a continuous body of water up to the
meander line of that year; that there was a narrow ridge or
reef across the west end thereof, some 12 or 15 miles west of
the lands in dispute, which separated its waters from those of
Harney Lake; that its waters were from 8 to 12 feet higher
than those of Harney Lake; that, in 1881, the waters of 1ialheur Lake, overflowing the ridge, cut a channel through,
which was enlarged from year to year for some time; that, as
a result, its surface was lowered, the waters receding from the
flat shelving shore, leaving the disputed land bare, except in
the spring time, from and after 1884. This constituted the

LIVE STOCK CO. v. SPRINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff's case. On behalf of the defendant, evidence was introduced tending to show that there never was a lake in front
of the said lots; that Malheur Lake is a well-defined, natural
body of water, but that, if the east and west exterior lines of
said lots were extended north indefinitely, they would not
touch or intersect the margin or border of said lake, but would
leave it entirely to the east thereof ; that the water of the lake
had been, from a time prior to 1877, of about the same height
as it was at the date of trial; that the border of the lake never
at any time extended to the supposed meander line of 1877,
and that there never had been any recession of the water of
the lake, and no consequent reliction of land in front of the
said lots."
X1-. C]iarles A. IYeigwin for plaintiff in error.
-Mi1.C.E. S. WFood for defendant in error. Xr.Lionel P.
Webster and .Jb. Thomas . ]ambaut were on his brief.
MR. JusTin SHiRAs, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The parties to this contest both claim under titles derived
from the United States-the plaintiff in error under patents
granted to the State of Oregon under the swamp land grant;
the defendant in error under the homestead laws.
To support its contention the plaintiff in error put in evidence,
at the trial, an official plat of the government survey of township 26 south, range 31 east, of the Willamette meridian, showing the township rendered fractional by abutting upon the
meander line along the south side of Malheur Lake, which plat
appears to have been approved by the Land Department and
filed in the local land office on September 17, 1871. The plat
shows lots 3 and 4, section 34, and lots 1 and 2, section 35, as
bounded on the north by the meander line of Malheur Lake;
also, a list of selections of land, made by the agent of the State
of Oregon, claimed as swamp and overflowed, with the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior, bearing date September 19,
VOL. cLxxxv-4

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

1889; also two patents from the United States for said lots,
dated, respectively, March 10, 1S90, and October 8, 1891said lots containing in the aggregate 158.53 acres; also, two
conveyances from the State of Oregon, comprising the said lots,
bearing date October i, 1889, and April 30, 1890, respectively,
and certain mesne conveyances of said lots, vesting title in the
plaintiff in error in 1894; also, oral evidence, tending to prove
that in 1877, and for some years thereafter, Malheur Lake was
a continuous body of water up to the meander line of that year;
that there was a narrow ridge or reef across the west end thereof,
some twelve or fifteen miles west of the lands in dispute, which
separated its waters from those of Harney Lake; that its waters
were from eight to twelve feet higher than those of Harney
Lake; that, in 1881, the waters of Malheur Lake, overflowing
the ridge between the lakes, cut a channel through, which was
enlarged from year to year for some time; that, as a result,
the surface of Malheur Lake was lowered, the waters receding
from the flat, shelving shore, leaving the disputed land bare,
except in the spring time, from and after 1884.
On the part of the defendant, whose possession began in
,Tuly, 1888, evidence was put in tending to show that there
never was a lake in front of the said lots; that Malheur Lake
is a well-defined, natural body of water, but that, if the east
and west exterior lines of said lots were extended north indefinitely, they would not touch or intersect the margin or border
of the lake, but would leave it entirely to the east thereof ; that
the water of the lake had been, from a time prior to 187, of
about the same height as it was at the date of trial; that the
border of the lake never at any time extended to the supposed
meander line of 1877, and that there never had been any recession of the water of the lake and a consequent reliction of land
in front of the said lots.
The question of fact, raised by this contradictory evidence,
was submitted to the jury, whose verdict decided the issue in
favor of the defendant in error.
The land in dispute, in the possession of the defendant in error, was not included within the lines of the original survey,
nor in the description of the lots contained in the patents and

LIVE STOCK CO. v. SPRINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

in the deeds of conveyance under which the plaintiff in error
holds, and to add the land in controversy to the lots so described
would more than double the area of the land claimed by the
plaintiff in error; but the contention of the plaintiff in error
was, in the courts below and now is, in this court, that, as the
plaintiff in error bought in reliance upon the plats and patents
which showed the meander line of the lake, such plats and patents must be deemed to conclusively establish that the lake
was the northern boundary of the land, so far as the rights of
riparian grantees are concerned.
Respecting this contention, the defendant in error advances
two propositions-first, that the grantee of swamps and overflowed lands takes only such lands as are of that special character, and that this land under the water, forming the bed of
the lake, not being of that character, could not pass, even under the facts as claimed to exist under the evidence of the plaintiff in error; and, second, that there never existed a lake in front
of or bordering on the plaintiff in error's lots; that if such was
the fact, the rule as respects accretion by reason of the alleged
recession of the water would not apply; and that as this question was submitted to the jury and found against the plaintiff
in error, such finding conclusively determines the controversy.
While it may be conceded that the description of the lots
contained in the survey, plats and patents are conclusive as
against the government and holders of homesteads, so far as
the lands actually described and granted are concerned, such
conclusive presumption cannot be held to extend to lands not
included within the lines of the survey, and which are only
claimed because of the alleged existence of a lake or body of
water bounding said lots, whose recession has left bare land accruing to the owners of the abutting lots. We agree with the
Supreme Court of Oregon in thinking that the question whether
the northern boundary of the lots of the plaintiff in error was
an existing lake, the recession of whose waters would leave the
bed of the lake, thus laid bare, to accrue to the owner of the
lots, was a question of fact which was not concluded by a mere
call for a meander line. If, indeed, there had been a lake in
front of these lots at the time of the survey, which lake had

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

subsequently receded from the platted meander line, the claim
of the owner of the lots to the increment thus occasioned might
be conceded to be good, if such were the law of the State in
which the lands were situated. But if there never was such a
lake-no water forming an actual and visible boundary-on the
north end of the lots, it would seem unreasonable, either to prolong the side lines of the survey indefinitely until a lake should
be found, or to change the situs of the lots laterally in order to
adapt it to a neighboring lake. The jury having found that
the facts under this issue were as claimed by the defendant in
error, the conclusion must be that the rights of the plaintiff in
error must be regarded as existing within the actual lines and
distances laid down in the survey and to the extent of the
acreage called for in the patents, and that the meander line was
intended to be the boundary line of the fractional section.
In 1ile8 v. Cedar Point Club, 175 U. S. 300, a somewhat
similar state of facts existed, and it was claimed that the mere
call for a meander line gave riparian rights beyond that line.
But this court said:
"It is urged that the fact that a meandered line was run
amounts to a determination by the land department that the
surveyed fractional sections bordered on a body of water, navigable or non-navigable, and that, therefore, the purchaser of
these fractional sections was entitled to riparian rights; and
this in face of the express declaration of the field notes and
plat, that that which was lying beyond the surveyed sections
was ' flag marsh,' or ' impassable marsh and water.' But there
is no such magic in a meandered line. All that can be said of
it is that it is an irregular line which bounds a body of land,
and beyond that boundary there may be found forest or prairie,
land or water, government or Indian reservation."
See likewise HMorne v. Smith, 159 U. S.40, where a similar
ruling was made.
Whether, even if the meander line of the survey really ran
along and adjacent to Malheur Lake, the doctrine of Hardin
v. Jardasa,140 U. S. 384, and cognate cases, is applicable, is
discussed at some length in the briefs. According to that rule,
the extent of the title of a government grantee of lands bounded

LIVE STOCK CO. v. SPRINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

on streams and waters, without any reservation or restriction
of terms, is to be construed, as to its effect, according to the
law of the State in which the lands he; and the cases cited show
that, in some of the States, it is held that the title of a riparian
proprietor extends to the middle thread of the stream, while in
others it is held to extend only to the water's edge; and in
Massachusetts, and perhaps other States, a distinction is recognized between lands bordering on lakes and ponds, and those
bounded by running streams.
But we are not called upon to enter into that discussion in
the present case, for the Supreme Court of Oregon reached its
conclusion apart from any such question, and expressed itself as
follows:
"If there never was a lake in front of plaintiff's lots, or if
one did not exist there at the time of the survey, then there was
no natural object or monument marking the north boundary of
the lots; hence resort must be had to the secondary evidence,
viz., the courses and distances which are ascertainable from the
plats and surveys, and they must prevail. The result is natural, and the land conveyed would be just what a mathematical
calculation would produce from the field notes of the survey of
the fractional sections and the supposed meander line. .
The plaintiff sought to sustain the fact of the actual existence
of the lake in front of its lots and upon which they abutted at
the time of the survey, and then to show a gradual subsidence
of the water of the lake, due to the cutting of the channel from
natural causes, through a narrow ridge or reef extending across
between Malheur and larney Lakes, by which the water of the
former was drawn off into the latter, and a consequent reliction
of the land bordering on said lots, which constitutes the land
in dispute, and to which plaintiff claims title. The defendant
controverted this position, and sought and introduced evidence
tending to show the non-existence of such a lake at the time of
the survey, and at all times since; in short, there was support
for the whole of his contention. The fact of the existence of
Malheur Lake, a non-navigable body of water, was admitted,
but there was evidence to show that it lies to the northeast of
the lots of the plaintiff, and that no part of it now, or at the

OCTOBER TERML,

1901.

Syllabus.

time of the survey, extended westward, in front or to the north
.
.
The issues of fact were clear and distinct,
of them.
and having been submitted to the jury, there is no reason why
their verdict should not preclude the plaintiff, as in other cases
when a jury has passed upon a submitted question of fact."
As the case went off in the Oregon courts on this question of
fact, it may be questionable whether any matter of Federal law
is left open for our revision. However, as the plaintiff in error
contended, in the courts below and in this court, that a proper
construction of the survey and patents gave riparian rights covering the land in dispute, and that it was not competent to overcome such rights by evidence affecting the legal import of the
plats and patents, we think a Federal question is thus presented.
For the reasons already given, we think that, while the plats
are conclusive as to the meander line, and while if there was a
lake abutting on or to the north of the lots, the plaintiff in error
would take all land between the meander line and the water,
and all accretions, it was competent for the defendant to show
that there was not, at the time of the survey nor since, any such
lake, and to contend that, in such a state of facts, there could
be no intervening land and no accretion by reliction.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Oregon is
Affirmed.
MR.
case.

JUSTIcE HARLAN

FRENCH-GLENN

took no part in the decision of this

LIVE STOCK COMPANY v. COLWELL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OREGON.
No. 125. Argued January 20, 21, 1902.-Decided April 7,1902.

French-Glenn Live Stock Company v. Springer, ante, p. 47, affirmed and
followed.

