188

,BUPREMECOURT.'
Qart.wright v. Howe et aL

Again it is insisted: The original arrangement made between
the plaintiffs and Thorn, in March' 1831, was subsequently, in.
the spring of 1834, abandoned and 'deserted; and in the autumn
:following, a iiew and inconsistent one, enlarging the creditsto be
given, and diminishing the sucrity, was made, rendering. notice
-to the defendant. necessary, .but to which no notice could have
given legal effect to charge the defendant for subsequent credits.
To this, and all other questions raised here, on which the court
b elow was -not called to express any opinion, we can only give
the same answer, giv.eii to' the next pteceding, supposed'ground
of defence.
It is. ordered, that .the judgment, of the Circuit Court Je revexsed, and the cause remanded for another trial thereof.
O.DER.

This cause came oft to be heard on the tfanscript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the. United States for the'southern distrct
of New York,. and w as argued by counsel. -On consideration
whereof, it -is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,.that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the
same is hereby"reversed, with costs; arid that this cause be and
the same" is hereby remanlded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to award a vehire fadas de novo.

ELIZABETH. R.

.

1ARTWRIGHTj PLAINTIEF IN ERROR,

T. RowE, GEORGE"

F.

RICARD9,
sA

WILLIM

vi

AL=XANzR

RIcHARDs, DE-

FENDANTS.
THIS cause came 6n to be heard on the transcript of the record
fro m the Circuit Court-of'the United States for the District of Columbia,.holden in and for the county of. Washington, and it having been stated by Mr. Bradley, of counsel for the defendant in
rror, that the matters in controversy had -been agreed and settled
between the parties, to which Mr. R. J. Brent, of -6oulsel for the.
llaintiff id error, assented; it-. is thereupon np"xs" here ordered

and adjudged by this court that this cause be-:and the sam. is
hereby dismissed, with costs.,.

