SUPREME COURT.

SAMUEL PEC,

PLAINTIFF IN. ERROR, V. MARY YOUNG.

IN error to the Court forthe trial of Impeachments and Correction of Error, of the state of-New York.
Thie counsel for the plaintiff in error, having filed a statement
in writing, setting forth that the matters in controversy in this
case had been agreed and settled between the parties, it is
thereupon now here considered and- adjudged by this court that
this writ of error be and the same is hereby dismissed, at the cost
of the plaintiff in error.

IRVING, JAxES E. DEmAY,
V. GABRrEL F
TILLON, AND- CHARLES P CLINCH, SURVIVING EXECU-

. m-etNnsD STATES.

FRANCIS R.
TORS OF

THE LAST WILL AND

TESTAMENT OF HENRY "EcKFOiD,

DECEASED.
When a collector is continued in office for more than one term, but gives different sureties; the liability of the sureties is to be estimated ]ut as if a new
person had been appointed to fill the second term.
When the accounts of a collector are returned to the Treasury quarterly, and
the date of the commencement and expiration of his term of office is on some
intermediate day between the beginning and end of the quarter, a re-statement
and Treasury transcript of his account up to the end of is t-,rm-is legal dvidence m a suit against-the sureties.
Such a re-statement does not falsify the"general accounts, but arranges the items
of debits and ciefits so as to exhibzt the transactions of the cbllector during
the four years for wnch the sureties were responsible.
The amount charged to the collector at the commencement of his second term
is only pimafacte evidence against the sureties.
But payments into the Treasury of moneys accruing and received in the second
term, should not be-applied.to the extinguishment of a. balance apparently
due at the-end of the first term. Payments made fit. the subsequent term, of
moneys received. on duty bonds; or otherwise, which remained charged to
the collector as of the preceding official term, shbuldhe so applied.
The settlement of quarterly accounts at the Treasury, running on in a continued
series, is not conclusive.. The officers of. the Treasury cannot, by any exercise of their discretion, enlarge or restrict the obligation of the collectq's
bond. Much lesscan they, by the mere fact of keeping an account currtnt
m which debits and credits are entered as they occur, and without any express appropiantion of payments; affect the. rights of surelies.

