JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

211

Connor v. Bradley pt ux.
make it- necessary to carry into all former laws the same literal
exposition of'the various terms used to express the same thing,
and fhereby changing the law according to every change of nere
phraseology, make it a labyrinth of inextridable confusion.
We are, therefore, of opinion that there is no error in the charge
of the court below, and that its judgment be affir'med.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the 'transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the western district
of Pennsylvania and was argued by counsel. On cousideration
whereof, it is ndv- here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said 'Circuit Court in this cause be and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costm.

MARY ANN CONNOR, V. HENRY BRADLEY AND MARY, 111S WIFE.
rn.an action of ejectment, if the plaintiff count upon a lease to himself -from a
person whom the evidence shows to have been .dead at the time, it is bdd.
It is a settled rule at common law, that where a right of re-entry.is claimed on
the ground of forfeiture for nonpayment of rent, there must be proof of a
demand of the precise sum due at a convenient time before sunset, on the
day when the rent is itue, upon the land, in the most notorious place of it,
even though there be no person on th land to pay.
In proceeding under the statute of,4 Geo. 2, it must be alleged and proved, that
there was no sufficient distress" upon the premises on some day or period
between tlhe time at which the rent felt due and the day of the demise; and
if the time when, according to the prdofs, there was not asufficient distress
upon the premiaes, be -ubsequent to 'the day of the demise, it is bad.
THis case was brought up by writ of error, to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Columbia and county of
Washington.
The case"was this:
In 1807, William Prout, living in the city of Washington, and
being the owner,.in fee, of d lot .in said city, made a lease of a
part ofit to Joseph B. Parsons, for the term of ninety-nine years,
renewable forever.
It was in' the usual form and contained
the hsual covtenants, (with the exception of the one hereafter

212

SUPREME COURT.
Connor v, -Bradley et ux.'

mentioned,) reserving an annual rent of thiriy-five dollars, paya-'
ble on the 13th' day of March, clear of all iaxes, charges, rates, or
assessments whatsoever. There was a covenant that if the said
yearly rent of thirty-five dollars should be unpaid at the expiration of sixty days after it was due, and. nio sufficient effects could
be found upon the.premises, whereon to levy -the sane, it should
be'lawful for Prout, his heirs or assigns, to re-enter and take possession of the leased premises.
The special covenant was to this effect, that if at any time or.
times thereafter, and-before the expiration of the lease, Parsons,
or his heirs, executors, &c., should pay to the said Prout, his
heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, the sum of SI'6 S71
cents'over and above all. rents for said piece of ground that
might then be in arrear, that- then the'said. Pront, his heirs, &c.,
should make and execute a good and sufficient deed of-release
in fee simple to the said Parsons, his heirs, &c.- for the said piece
or portion of ground.
In 1813, Parsons died, having occupied the leased.property
from the time that the lease was made.
In 1815, and prior thereto, the widow of Parsons, Who con
tinued in possession of the property, paid to Prout $100 on ae
count of the purchase of the fee simple in the said lot.
In 1823, 'rout died; Mary B radley, one of the lessors of the
plaintiff,- being one of his surviving children.-. After Prdut's
death, the widow of Parsons gave possession of the property in
quesfioft'to Mary Ann Connor, the defendant in the ejectment,
who for some time paid the taxes as they accrued, and also paid
various sums of money on account of the rent due, and in arrear., and of the accruing rent.
In 1831, a partition of the estate.of Prout was made, according
to law,. among his children, and the leased premises in-question
were assigned to Mary Bradley. After the partition, Mary Ann
Connor made payments on account of the rent to Mary Bradley,
and also paid the taxes to the corporation of the city of Washington, up to the year 1831, but omitted to pay the taxes for the
years 1831, 1832, 1833, and 1834, amounting in all to $44 33 cents.
In 1835, George Adams, the collector of taxes for the corporation of Washington, after.having'advertised the property; set up
to sale the leasehold interest'in the said piemises, but receiving

JANUARY TERM,. 1S43.

213

Conn.or t. Bradley et ux.

no bid for the same, immediately thereafter exposed to public
sale.the fee simple interest and estate, which was purchased by
one Allison N'ailor, forthe sum of $49 83 cents, being the amomit
of taxes due thereon, together with the expense of selling the
same.. The property had been assessed on the books of the corporation of Washington, from 1818 to.1838 in, the name of Joseph B. Parsons.'s heirs.
Qn the 2d of June, 1838, the corporation of Washington made
a deed of the premises to Allison Nailor, and, in November following, he corveyed them to Mary Ann Connor.
In,. November, 1838, Henry Bradley, and Mary his wife,
brought an ejectment against'Mary Ann Connorcounting on two"
demises; one from William Prout, on. the 1st day of January,
1827, and the other from Henry Bradley and Mary his wife, on
the 1st day of January, 1838.
The judgment of the court below was for the plaintiffs.. Two
bills of exceptions were taken, the first of which it is only necessary to notice, and which.is stated at large in thpe opinion of the
court.
Brent and Brent, for the -plaintiff in error,- and Brddley
/for
defendant. Only such parts of.their arguments will be noted as
bear upon the point Upon which the court-rested their judgmefit.
Brent, for plaintiff in error, contended, that, as to the fist
demise, laid" on the 1st January, 1827, it -was bad, because the
evidence showed that Prout died in 1823. 3 Wend. 153..
The second demise is laid on the 1st January, 1838, and the
lessor must howa right-to re'2nter or that day;. and he cannot
have such righ.t'unless there'be insufficient distress'upon the premises: .3 H arris and Johns. 19; 5 Harris and Johns. 175; Adams
on Ejebtment, 189; 1 Johns. Ca. 28; 6 Cowen, 140; P Leigh's
N. PT882, 883,934; 4 Durnf. and East, 681 ; .6 Binn. 454 ; 3 Bibb
297; 3 Marshall, -134; 3 Monr. 221. The evidence shows that
there -was not sufficient distress on the premises, on the -day
of October, 1838, but not how it was ifi January, 1S38. Evans's
Practice, 48 ; Adams on Ejectriient., i50, reciting statute 6f Geo. 2;
7 Durnf. and East, 117,. 120; 2 Leigh's N. P. 924; 'Doug. 485;
15 East, 286 ;., Chitty's Pleading, 8S0, note'.K.; 2 Manle and
Seiw. 529;, 6 Cowen, 149.

214

SUPREME COURT.
Connor v. Bradley et ux.

Bradley. 15 East, 286-288, (referred to in Leigh's N. P.) only
says that there must be an insufficiency at the time of the notice,
or when the declaration was served. But in this case the tenant
sets up an adversary title, and does not come within the rule.
Buller, N. P. 96; 6 Johns."Rep. 272.
Connor must be considered as a trustee for the true owner,
having obtained the title by fraud. 2'Bos. and Pul. 178; 8 East,
268. Court wfll direct the jury to )resume a deed from trustee
to cestui que trust. 4 T. R. 682. Brent, in conclusion, insisted that the demise in the declaration
must correspond with the right-of entry, which did not accrue
until there was aft insufficient distress. 8 Peters, 214. Reason of
the rule stated in 3 Harris and johns. 19; 6 Johns. 273. Question of fraud not raised in the bill of exceptions.
Mr. Justice DANILL delivered the opinion of the court.
At the trial below, the jury having returned a verdict for the
.plaintiff, the court thereupon adjudged to him his unexpired term
in the premises claimed. To the rulings of the court in the progress of the trial two bills of exceptions ivere sealed at the instance of the defendant. The second of these bills is adverted
to merel as making a part of the history of this cause. The
questions there by presented as growing out of the assessment of
taxes on lots in the ci.tyr of Washington, and the modes of proceeding by the corporate authorities to subject the real property
of delinquents to sale for arrears of taxes, under the acts of Congress applicable to such subjects, are withdrawn from the action
of the court by previous and more material considerations claiming its attention -under the first bill of exceptions.; and which, in
the view of the court, must deternine"the rights of these parties
in their present attitude here. This'bill of exceptions i ,inthe
following words:
Defendant's first exception.-0n this trial of this cause, the
plaintiffs, to maintain the issue on their part joined, ave in evidence a lease. from William Prout to .Joseph B. Parsons, as follows, (copied in page 18,) and proved that the premises in question are the same as those mentioned in said lease; they farther
gave evidence, to show that Joseph B. Parsons entered into the

JANUARY TERM, 1843..

215

Connor v. Bradley et ux.

possession of the said premises under the said lease, and continued
to occupy them until his death, which happened some time in the
year ,l 13; that- he left- a widow and sevien children, of *hom
the defendant is one; that -his widow was left in the possession.
th.ereof at his death, and remained and continued in said possession until the death of said William Prout, which happened
some timein the year 1823; that previous to the year, 1815, she
paid to the said William Prout, $100 on account of the purchase of the fee simple of the said lot; that some time after the
death of the said William Prout, the said widow of Joseph B.
Parsons abandoned the possession of the said preihises to the
defendant, and the defendant took possession, thereon claimin'g.
to hold the leasehold interest, with the full knowledge and consent of said widow; and of the children of said Joseph B. Parsons;
that the defendant thenceforth paid the taxes on the said lot under
.the said lease, and, from time to -time, paid various sums of money bn accpunt of tlie rent due and in arreax under the said lease,
and of the accruing refit; that, as appears by the within admision
of the defendant filed in this cause, marked A, and as.follows,
(copied in page 14,) a partition of the estate of said William
Prout was made, ini March, 1831, among his children; tfiat" by
.that partition, the said premises, and the reversionary interest in.
the land-described in the said'lease, was assigned Mary Bradley,
one of -the plaintiffV, in fee simple;. that the square .iti which the
said demised premises are situated, 'Was divided. into lots, on the
plan of the city of Wasingt6n ; that after said partition, the said
defendant paid moneys on account of said rent, under said lease,
to said MaryfBradley, and also paid the taxes to the corporation
of the city of Washington, as provided in said lease, to tie year
1831 that she failed to pay the taxes for the years 1831, 1832,
1833, and 1834, amounting in all ra the sum of $4.4 33 cents, and"
the said leasehold interes.t was set up for sale, and it.not produc-.
ing enough, the fee simple of the grourid described in said lease
was set up for sale for ta±es, and was sold.;. that at the time of'
the said tax sale, there was personal property on the said ground,
-li*able for said taxes, more'than sufficient -to pay such taxes, aiid
the said ground was improved property, having ad-wellinghouse
upon it; that after shid tax sale, the defendant promised the plaintiffs to redeem said- property,-and failed to do so within the two.

216

SUPREME COURT.
Confior v. Bradley et ux.

years next succeeding said sale; that she waited uptil said two
years had elapsed, and then called upon Allison Nailor, the.purchaser thereof at said tax sale, and represented to him that she
was the owner of the said property,.and obtained from him an
assigrnment of his certificate of purchase at said tax sale; that
afterwards, the said assignment was cancelled, because the corporation could make no deed to ah assignee and the said Nailor
received a conveyance from the corporation of Washington, and
then executed a conveyance to the defendant of the premises in
question, and the defendant then set up a claim to the premises in
feb simple, and'adverse to the'plaintiffs; that on the - da of
October, 1838, there was rent due and in arrear, under the said
lease amounting to $193.; and that there was not more than $30
of personal property on the said pre.mises, liable to distress Tor
rent, on the,- day of October, or at the time of bringing this
action; and here the plaintiffs rested. And thereupon, the defendant, by her ounsel, prayed the codurt to instruct the jury that,
under the evidence aforesaid, the plaintiffs are not entitled to reco-er in this action; "whie'h'iistruction the court refused to give,
and the defendaut excepts, thereto, and prays the court to sign
and seal this bill of exceptions, which is done accordingly.
W. CRANCir,

[L. s.]

JAMEs S. MORSELL. [L. s.]

By a comparison of the facts set out in this bill, with the first
count in the declaration; it wilt be seen that the plaintiff has
counted upon a lease to, him from William. Prout of the date of
Jaynuary, 1827, when it is manifest'by the proofs adduced by the
plaintiff, that Prout died in '1823, four years previously to the
existence of the lease. This irreconcilable contradiction, between
the different parts of the plaintiff's title, 'as dependent upon- the
first count,-it is unnecessary to commeit upon, as the counsel was
understood, ifi 'the argument, to admit its effects as conclusive to
prevent a recovery under that count.
'Had the plaintiff in ejectment a right to recover under the demise frorm Bradley and wife, upon the second count? The foundations for the recovery contended for on behalf of the plaintiff
are, a: forfeiture of tenure by the defendants, and a right of re.entry in the plaintiff, for a breach of the coridition in the lease of
the premises, by the father of Mary Bradley, one of the lessors

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

217

Connor v. B-adley et ux.

of the plaihtiff, to Joseph B. Parsons. It is a settled rule at the
common law, that where a right of re-entry is claimea on the
ground of forfeituie for nonpayment of rent, there must be'proof
of a demand of the precise sum due, at a-convenient time before
sunset an the day when the rent is due, upon ihe land, in. the
most notorious place of it, even though there be no person~on the
land to pay. 1 Saund. 287, note 16;in which are cited, I Leon.
305; Cro. Eliz. 209; Plowd. 172, b; 10 Rep. 129; Co. Litt. 201, b;
4 Leon. 117; 7 T. R. 117; *andnumerous other aqthorities. See
also upon the same. point, Doe ex dem. Wheeldon v.Paul, 3 Car.
and Payne, 613, (14 Eng. Com. Law, 483;) and Roe ex dem. West
v. Davis, 7 Fast, 363. In this case no proof is adduced or even
pretended of a compliance with any one of the requisites just
enum'eraded.
But this suit is said not to be prosecuted upon rulds of practice at the common law, but under the authority of the statuf&
of 4 Geo. 2,c. 28, which is in force in Washington .co6nty. We
will inquire how far the decisions upon the interpretation of this
statute have been fuffilled in the case before us. In Doe v. Lewis,
1 Burr. 619, 620, the court-say that this stattite. prescribes a meihod of proceeding- in ejectment in two case, , viz.: 6ne in case
of judgment against th.e casual ejectbr;'the other in case of its
comiing to trial. *.In the former, .anaffidavit must be made in the
court where the suit is depending, th'at half a year's rent Was due
before the-declaration was served,,and that no sufficient distress
was to be fouid on the premises coutervailing- the alfrears then
due, and that the lessor had power to, re-enter; in the latter, (that
of a frial, the same things-must be proved upon the trial; .therefore it is held that this statute' doe§ not extend to cases where
there is a sufficient distress upon the premises, and consequently
in such cases the lessoi must proceed at common law as before
the statute. To the.same effect is the decision in Doe ex dem.
Foster v. Wandless, 7,T-; R. 117. -It has been expressly ruled that
under the statute of 4 Geo. 2, there. must be. proof that on some
day or period between the time atwhich the rent fell due, and
the day of the demise, there was not a-sufficient distress on ihe
premises. Doe ex dem. Smelt v. Fuchau, 15 East, 286; and
further, that evidence must be adduced showing an examination
of every part of the premises,.and that where a party omitted to
VOL. I.-28
T

218

SUPREME COURT.
CGonnor, v. Biradley et ,ix.

-enter a cottage, ifiis was deemed an insufficient search. P Bro.
and-Bing. 514, (6 Eng. Com. Law.) Of the two demises laid in the
declaration, the first is in January, 1827, the second on the Ist of
January, 1838. Turning to the first bill of exceptions, we find it
stated. ag having been proved, that on the - day of October, 1838,
there-wasrent due and in'arrear, amouhting to $193; next, that
there .was not more than $30 vaTue of personal- property on the
premises liable to distress for rent on the - day of October, or at.
the time of bringing this action. It will thus be perceived that the
proofs by the plaintiff in ejectment -fall short 'of the requirements
of the statute in the following particulars, vi.., in-failing to show
that.any examination had been made to ascertain what amount
of personal property was upon the premises at any time, or that
there. was any on'e day.or period of tine between the accrual 6fthe rent-for six months, and the ate of either demise, at which
there was a deficiency of personal property on the premises countervailing (to adopt the langupge of tie:'courts) the arreard then
due, for the last demise is dated January 1, 1838, the deficiency
is averred to have been in the month of October following; the
declaration was served in 'November, 1838, a still later. period
of time.
For these defects in the case made by the plaintiff in ejectment,.
it is the opinion of this court'that- the instruction prayed by th.e
defendant, as set forth in the firs.t bill of exceptions, ought to have
been given; that in'refusing such instruction the Circuit Court,
has erred. Its judgment must therefore be reversed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be hard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of'Co
lumbia, holden-in and for the couity of Washington, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Circuit Court in this cause be. and the same is hereby reversed, with costs; and that this cause be and the samne is hereby
remanded'to the said Circuit Court; with directions to award a
venire facias de novo.

