SUPREME COURT.

JOHN BUCHANNON AND OTHERS, COMPLAINANTS,

V. EDWIN UPSHAW,

RESPONDENT.

(Mr. Chief Justice TixqEy did not sit in this cause.)
There were. two titles to a tract of land, the senior title held by Upshaw, and
the junior by Buckner, both derived from the same person who had sold to
both.
Buckner soon afterwards sold to Buchannon, who paid Buckner and took
possession.
Upshaw subsequently agreed to ratify the sale fromln the original holder to Buck-.
ner, upion receiving an assignment of-Buckner's bond for the purchase money,
not yet due, and other securities.
The bond not being paid, Upshaw brought an ejectment and obtained a judg-ment. Buckner's assignees filed a bill to obtain a perpetual injunction.
There is a7privity of contract between them and Upshaw, and a perpetual injunction will be granted upon their fulfilling the obligations of Buckner, their
assignor; it was not their duty, under the circumstances,,to have tendered the
money to Upsh aw.
A power in Buckner to resell, and a sale made under that power, prior to Upshaw's giving his assent to the sale from the original holder to Buckner himself, did not extinguish the equitable right of Upshaw to reteive the purchase
money, or to proceed against the land.
Upshaw's right not destroyed by lapse of time, because he had brought suit on
Buckner's bond andthe other securities, and was not in a condition for a long
time to make a valid title.
Upshaw, being held bound by his. assent to the sale to Buckner, is entitled to the
advantage which that paper gave him as to the application of part of the
purchase money to one purchase in preference to another.
Interest must begin to run from the time when Upshaw asserted his claim to
.the land, and what is due.to Upshaw must be made up by the present holders
of the land, each one contributing in proportion to the price which he paid to
Buckner.
THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Ohio, sitting as a court of chancery.
The case was this,:
John Buchannon and others filed a bill in the Circuit Court of
Ohio against Upshaw, stating that Upshaw had obtained a judgment in an action of ejectment against them, and praying for two
things: 1. That he, Upshaw, might be perpetually enjoined from
proceeding in execution upon said judgment; and, 2. That he

might be compelled to convey by deed in fee simple, the land

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

57

Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

whicl had' been the subject of the suit in ejectment. The Circuit
Court, after various proceedings,* decreed that the injunction
which had been temporarily granted, restraining Upshaw from
suing out executions upon his judgment in ejectment, should be
dissolved; that the bill should be dismissed, and that Buchannon
and others should pay"to Upshaw a certain -sum of money for the
rents and profits, after deducting the value of the improvements
made upon the land. From this-decree an appeal was taken to
this court.
On the llth of December, 1789, Beverly Roy obtained from
the commonwealth of Virginia'a patent for one thousand acres of
land in the Virginia military district of Ohio, and within Clermont
county.- 'He sold three hundred acres-of this tract to one Buchannon, and contracted to convey the remaining seven hundred (the
land in controversy in the present suit) to Lyne Shackleford.
-On the 10th April,,1797, Shackl'eford sold thistract of seven hundred acres to Upshamw, the defendant in the present appeal; but not
having the legal title in-himself at that time; he procured it to-be
made .directly from Roy to Upshaw, without passing through
himself. On the 20th of July, 1797, Roy accordingly executed a
conveyance to Upshaw for these seven hundred acres, and also a
bond .for further assurance.
On the 16th November, 1797, Shackleford, being thus destitute
of the legal title, nevertheless sold -to'Philip Buckner, the same
tract of seven hundred acres which he had previously sold to Upshaw. It was alleged in the bill that this sale was made with
Upshaw's consent, but no evidence of it was furnished, excepi
that .in the contract 'of 1801 his consent is stated to be given- 'at
some time prior to 1801. At the same time, Shackleford sold also
to Buckner another tract of'one thousand acres. The price for
both tracts was RlO0d, without saying what was the sum for
each tract. No part 'bf it was to be paid 'in cash. A bond of
Anderson for e6oo held by Buckner was assigned to Shackleford;
a claim against Coats fir X250 was also assigned over; and for
the balance Shackleford agreed to Wait until Buckner sold the
one thousand. seven hundred acres, provided he sold-it prior to
January, 1799; if not, payment to be then made, or sooner if
Buckner should sell,
In 1-798 and 1799, Buckner sold to the complainants, or to those
VOL. I.-8

58

SUPREME COURT.
Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

under whom they claim, in several parcels, the whole of the seven
hundred acres in question, Who paid him in full therefor, received conveyances, and entered into possession.
On the lsth "of April, 1861,.Upshaw, having made some payments to Shackleford, entered into a new contract with him, which:
was endorsed on the'original one, stating "that since the date of
the within, Shackleford had, with the consent 6f Upshaw, sold
the seven hundred acres of land to Buckner for e420, which sum
is still due;" and it was agreed that Shackleford should assign
Buckner's contract to Upshaw,'who was to make a deed as soon
as the money should be paid. But if,. upon application, Buckner did not pay the said sum of money and interest, Upshaw was
immediately to take proper steps to,have the land sold to raise
the money and interest.
*On the 16th of May, IS03, Shackleford assigned to Upshaw
the contract between Shackleford and Buckner, and authorized
Upshaw to receive from Buckner the balance due on the same,
amounting on that day to e530 9s., having previously assigned
the claim upon Coatses bond, and an order which Buckner had
-given upon one Copland, the. attorney who was charged with its
collection. The result of that claim may be stateil in a few words.
Suit was brought in thb Circuit Court of the United States. at
Richmond; by John Marshall, in 1.798, against Coats: there was
a judgment, a ca. sa., another ca. sa.; and, finally, it got into
chancery against' Coats's widow and children. The plaintiff at
last gave -it
up in 1820.
Upshaw made more than one effort to obtain the noney from
Buckner, which Was due under the contract assigned by Shackleford. In April, 1804, he empowered John I. Upshaw, who -was
gding to Kentucky, to receive from Buckner the sum due on his
contract-,, and on the payment of the money, the agent was authorized to make.A-deed.
The agent called on Buckner, who expressed much anxiety
to comply with his contract, and induced" the agent to remain
some days, in the hope, of raising the money. But he failed to
pay any part of it. The a.gent, after authorizing JohnO'Bannon
to receive the money from Buckner, and make him a. deed, returned to Virginia.
Up.haw drew an order on John O'Bannon in April, 1807;for

JANUkRY TERM. 1843.

59

achannon" et al. .v. Upshaw.

the money, which was returned protested for ion-acceptance.
O'Bannon shortly after this died, and in the year 1813,;or 1814,
Upshaw obtained from his representatives the as'igned contract
of Btckner, which had been left with him, and on which was'
endorsed a credit for $100 on the I0th April, 1805, and another
for the same amount, 18th April, 1806. On obtaining the contract, Upshaw catsed an action to be brought on it against Buckner f 6r the money. The suit being brought in the name of Upshaw, as iissignee of Shackleford, there was a demurrer to the
declaration; and at May. term, 1815, the Circuit Court of the
United States for Kentucky sustained the demurrer, and the
action failed.
Shortly after. this, Upshaw commenced an action of ejectment,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Ohio,
against Buchannon and others, who occupied the land, to recover
possession of it, which, at May term, 1816, failed, on the ground
that the patent emanated from the state of Virginia, shbsequently
to the deed of cession from Virginia to the United States; and
of course Upshaw was only invested with the equitable title to
the land.
In August, 1817, Roy and wife executed another deed to Upshaw for the land, in compliance with the covenant 'for further
assurance, which he had entered into in 1797.
Some short time prior to December; 1820, 'Buckner died. His
.will, made in February, 1817, contains bequests of real estate
and some small legacies of personalty. The executor filed two
accounts, one in 1822,'and the other in. 1823, the latter showing
a balance'in the hands of the executor of $50 18 cent. It does
not appear that any of his real estate was required to be sold to
pay debts.
In 1826, Upshaw obtained from the United States a patent
for the seven hundred acres.
In 1829, he brought another ejectment, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the- district of Ohio, against Buchannon
and others, occupiers of the land, and having nosy a patent from
the United States, succeeded in obtaining judgment; upon which,
Buchannon and others filed a bill upon the equity side of thesame court, and obtained an injunction to stay proceedings. This
is the bill mentioned in the commencement of this narrative,

60

SUPREME COURT.
Buchannon et al. 'v. Upshaw.

which, upon hearing, was dismissed by the Circuit Court, and
the injunction dissolved; and the case now'came up by an appeal
frQrn that decree.
The proceedings in this case were diversified in its history-, by
two collateral chancery suits, one*by John H. Upshaw against
E. Upshaw, and another by D. Upshaw 4gainst Chamberlayne,
the executor of Shackleford; but as the decision of this case
does not rest upon any of the 'facts or principles disclosed in them,
they are not further notived.
Stan&berry and Leonard,for the appellants.
L Roy, the original owner of the equitable title to the seven.
hundred acres, sold the land to Shackleford. Shackleford, on the
10th April, 1797, sold the land to Upshaw by title bond,. covenanting to make a deed. Afterwards, on the 16th July, 1797,
Shackleford again sold the land to Buckner, by-title bond, received
a part of the purchase money, and agreed to wait for the residue
until the money could be raised by a resale by Buckner.
In this state of facts the equity to' be then administered between the then parties was obvious. Upshaw, as the first purchaser of the equitable title; was to be prieferred to Buckner,
although he may have purchased from Shackleford without
notice.
I The rule prior in tempore,.potior in jure,would
then have
applied, for there was no laches, acquiescence, or fraud charge.
able to Upshaw.
Next in order was the resale by Buckner to the complainants,
the payment in full to Buckner, execution of "deeds by Buckner
to the purchasers, and the taking possession of the lands by the
purchasers.
Notwithstanding all this, at that point of time, so far. as any
fact is yet developed, Upshaw's equity was the best. He stood
then upon his first purchase of this equity. The subsequent sale
by Shackleford to Buckner was in fraud of his title, and he had
given no authority for such subsequent sal6, and .stood wholly
unaffe6ted by it.
-But after all this, on the 18th April, 1801, Upshaw euters into
communication with Shackleford, the fraudulent vendor, and they
enter into an agreement under seal, in which itis recited, that-the

YANUARY TERM, 1843,

61

Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

sale made by Shackleford to Buckner, had been made with Upshaw's*consent; they cancel the prior agreement which witnessed
the first sale from Shackleford to Upshaw; and'Shacldeford
agrees to assign to Upshaw the contract with Buckfier, and to
authorize him Io receive the money due from Buckner; that is,
the £420, with interest at 5 per cent.
In conformity with this arrangement, on the 7th May, .1803,
Shackleford delivered to Upshaw, Buckner's. order-on Copland
for the Coats money; and on the 16th of the same month
assigns to Upshaw the cofitract with Buckner. and on the 17th
of the same month, Upshaw releases Shackleford from the contract in which he had made the first.sale to Upshaw.
After all this, there remains no questionbetween different equities. The prior equitable title of Upshaw was extinguished.
He could no longer assert his prior equitable title as superior to
that of Buckner, but must stand int the shoes of ShacklePord, and
recognise the equity of Buckner. The bill alleges that Shackleford made the. second sale to Buckner with Upshaw's coisent;
Upshaw denies any prior consent, but says he assented to it qualifiedly afterwards. I do not know that-it makes much difference,
as to the extinguishment of his prior equitable title, whether the
assent wag prior or subsequent to the second sale; but as the
proof stands, the prior consent is established beyond all denial.
He has acknowIdged under his seal; that Shackleford had made
the sale with his consent, and that stops him from saying the
contrary..
And again, if the consent to the second sale, whether prior or
subsequent, did not extinguish Upshaw's. prior -equity, it is extinguished by express release in thb agreement between himself
and Shackleford of the 17th May, 1803.
Upshaw, therefore, must stand upon the contract between
Shackleford and Iguckner. He must stand ag the assignee of the
vendor to Buckner.
Let us now examine that.contract, and ascertain what interest
passed by it to Buckner, or upon a resale .by him to these complainants, and what interest remained in the vendor.
At the date of this contract, the legal title to this seven hundred
acres was in the Urnited States., A patent had been granted
for it by the state of Virginia to Roy, the warrantee,, but it
F

62

SUPREME C.OURT,
B-cmiannon et aL v. Upshaw.

was wholly inoperative, being made years after the deed of
cession.
The subject-matter of sale ,was, therefore, an equitable interest
in land. This interest passed effectually to Buckner by a written
contract, sufficient to satisfy the statute of frauds; and this, notwithstanding the -purchase-money was not paid. Hampson v.
Edelen, 2 Har. and Johns. 64. It passed in the same manner
upon the sale by Bucknei to the complainants.
What:'remained in the vencior, 'Shaclkleford, or in Upshaw,
his assignee?
No title, no interest in the land.
If any
thing remained, it was simply a lien for the unpaid purchasemoney, as against Buckner,'while thie land remained, unsold by
him.
Twenty-nine years after this sale to Buckner, Upshaw, pretending to be the owner of this equitable title,[obtained a patent
from the United States. If he had, at the ime he so procured the
patent; no title to the land, and no lien upon it for the purchasemoney, the consequence is irriesistible that he holds it as trustee
for the real owner.
I have shown he had no title to the land. Let us now inquire
.if he had a lien upon it.
The lien of the vendor for his unpaid purchase-money
arises as well upon the sale of an equitable interest as upon
a conveyance of the legal title.
It is, a creature of equitr
raised between the immediate parties to the contract, and sustained only against subsequent purchasers when affected with
notice "ofit.
There is no other lien or charge upon an estate so shadowy
and so little obvious as this lien of the vendor. If is never to be
found of record; it does not depend upon possession'pf the estate
or the muniments of the title. It is not sustained by any matter
of constructive notice, but onl - exists as to third persons fixed
with actual iotice.
The essence of this lien is that the vendor looks to the land
alone for the money, or the land and the purchaser
If he takes cobateral security, such .as the note of a third person, or if he takes simply a mortgage on the land for only a part
of the.purchase-money, or if he does any other act manifestht.ive
of an intention to look primarily to any other fund than the land,

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

63

Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

•the lien never arises. Or when the lien has first attached, if he
assigns the note of the vendee, ar if he is guilty of laches, the
lien is gone.
We claim no lien ever existed upon this land in favour of
Shackleford, or Upshaw, his assignee.
1. Because the contract of sale looks to a resale, and to the
fund arising upon such resale, as the fund for payment, and does
not look to the land.
Shackleford agrees to wait for the unpaid purchase-money
until Buckner should sell the land.- The moment the land is sold
the purchase-money becomes due; but, if it is not sold, the
purchase-money does not become payable until fourteen months
after the date of the contract.
Whenever the contract contains such consent to a resale, and
looks to-the fund to be produced on-a resale, there is no lien on
the land. Sugd. Vend. 552. Ex parte Parker, Glyn and Jam.
228. Coad v. Pollard, 9 Price, 544; 10 Price, 109.
We do not pretend that Buckner was the agent of Shackleford
in making the resale, and that, therefore, payment to him was
payment to his principal. We.do not put this as a case between
principal and attorney. The simple question is, after such a con-'
tract, after such an agreement, after a saleto a third person, and
payment in full by that third person, can the vendor say to the"
new purchaser, "You have paid "yourimmediate.vendor just as
I agreed you should, and I took his.covenant. . I relied upon his'
faith to pay me the money; but he has not done so, and I now
require that the loss shall fall upon you and not upon me, and
that you shall now pay me again for the same land which I con-sented you should first pay for to another!"
Now, putting the case in the strongest light for Upshaw,_placing him in the situation of a vendor, not the mere assignee of the
vendor, investing him with a legal title retained upon the sale to
Buckner, yet, is it not clear, that a court of equity 'vould compel
him at once to convey that legal title to the second venden. who
had fully paid his purchase-money?
Whenever the holder 6f a legal title encourages a purchaser to
deal with another for his estate, or invests another person with
the means of imposing upon others as the true owner, or is silent
when a purchaser isdealing with another for his estate, a court

64

SUPREME COURT.
Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

of equity will never allow him afterwards to assert that legal title
against the purchaser
In a court of equity, when the conscience of the party is notaffected, the holding of the legal title is every thing. A satisfied
mortgage, an outstanding term, a deed surreptitiously obtained,
are equally .available but, where in reference to third, persons
the conduct of the holder of the legal title has been such as that
it would be inequitable to assert it against the holder of the equitable title, then a legaltitle is no protection. .1 P. Williams, 393;
3 Russel, 1; Sugd. Vend. 728; Finch's Rep. 28.
It is said the complainants were bound to know what sort of
title Bucknef had, that they must be taken to know that he held
only by contract andhad not paid his-vendor.
Take it as granted, and suppose them to have had notice of the
very article under which Buckner held, and what then? What
is the language there held by Shackleford ? "I consent that, in
order to raise a fund to par me what is yet due, you may sell
this land to others; they are to pay for the land to you, not to
me, and you are "topay it to me. I look, not to the land, but to
the fund which i& to come in place of the land, and I trust you
to receive and par it over to me. I giare you fourteen months
to pay the money, if you do not sboner sell the land; but the
moment you sell it, if it be to-morrow, you are to take the
money you receive and out of-it pay. me my debt."
We say, therefore, because of this clause of resale, there was
no lien on the land.
II. Lien lost by laches.
But, if there was a lien for the purcha~e-money after the sale
to the complainants, we next claim that it was lost long ago by
laclies of Upshaw.
We have shown that Upshaw stood, not as vendor, but simply
as his assignee of the debt due for the purchase.-money. He was
once connected with this land as a purchaser; but we have shown
that he released the interest s6 acquired to Shdckleford, and
agreed to take a certain sum of money instead of the land. He
had, therefore, in fact, only a money claim. The land was never
his, nor intended to become hiz.
We take it as granted, in this view of the case, that he might
look to the land as security or means of payment, but he had

JANUARY TERM, 184.

.. 65

B uchannon et al. v. Upshaw."

other security, the 'money due from Coats for a part, and the responsibility of Buckner for the whole. Time and laches would
bar him of all these'securities. The debt was the principal thing,
the lien on the land the mere incident. Time woild bar the

debt. It would be most singular that after a lapse of thirty years,
we should find not only this debt y6t valid, but the mere collateral lien which attended it also in full vigour. It woul .require
sleepless vigilance to bring that about. Instead of this, there has
-been, so far at least as the lien is concerned, the most culpable
negligence.
The Coats bond covered only part of the debt, 4250 out bf
A420; for the difference, .170, Upshaw could look only to Buckner or the land. Nothing' appears to show that any, step was
taken by Upshaw on the Coats claim. A suit'had been brought
upon it in 1798, three years before he became the assignee of
Shackleford. Judgment was refidered on-it in 1800, and the
writ of ca:sa. had been in that year returned, not found. The
original suit had been commenced by capias, bail given, but no
suit appears even to have been brought on the bail bond. An
alias ca. sa. in 1801, never returned, is the last step taken upon
the judgment. For the nine succeeding years no step is taken.
On the 4th January, 1809, B.uckner takes the matter in hand, and
gives a power of attorney to Marshall to collect the money from
Coats. In 1810, a bill is filed, in Buckner's name, against Coats's
representatives, to set aside a fraudulent settlement, which is continued for ten years, and then dismissed upon the default of the
plaintiff, December, 1820.
There is no evidence of the slightest action of Upshaw in these
proceedings, nor is any thing of the sort Stated in the answer.
The only statement in the answer is, that the suit against Coats
"was diligsiniy prosecuted."
It is not said by whom. We
have seen,-.however, how diligently.
Then as to the claim on Buckner. The steps takeeh by Buckner are the following:
In-April, 1804, (three years after the. assignment from Shackleford,) Upshaw sent by John H. Upshaw to demand the money.
It vas not paid, and the claim was put by John H. Upshaw in
the hands of O'Bannon for collection, who received $200 from
Buckner, but'did nothing more.
"
P 2.
.YOL. I.--9

66

SUPREME COURT.
Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

In December, 1805, Upshaw assigned z500 of the Btickner
debt to John H. Upsha-w, and, gave him an order on O'Bannon,
April 1, 1807, to receive the money if collected. This'order was
protested for nonpayment. Nothing further is done for seven
years; until February, 1814, when Upshaw commences a suit, in
his own name, against Buckner, on the Shacklefoid contract.
Buckner-demurred to declaration; on the ground that the actioh
should have been brought in Shackleford's name, and the de-"
murrer was sustained, and judgment upon it against Upshaw at
May term, 1815. This was the'.end of all vigilance as to Buck-'
ner, who lived until 1820, and thnn died possessed of large real
and personal s.ztate. His estate has since been settled, and'it appears it was riot necessary to sell ,his real estate to pay his delbts.
This is the sum total of vigilance asto Coats and Buckner,
showing the Inosf tardy proceedings, and those defeated by the
gross ignorance of Upshaw's agents.
Now it would be strange if all this delay has not wholly defeatedl all prospect. of a recovery, of either the Coats claim, or
the debt against Buckner. In all probability the Kentucky sta:tute has long since barred an action in favour of Shackleford or
Buckner; or, if there be no limitation in that state as to specialty
debts, as we believe is thd case, the presumption of payment is
conclusive. And the Virginia statute has barred the action
against Coats's bhil, or against the sheriff for failing to return the
last ca. sa. 0r,. if there was no bar by limitation or presump- tion, the assets of Coats and Buckner are beyond the reach of
their creditors. One has been dead nearly forty years, theother
(Buckner) twenty-two years.
With what conscience can Upshaw, after all this delay aid
loss, seek to make these purchasers from Buckner again pay for
their iands? If he had come forward in good time, they undoubtedly might have reimbursed themselves, by action against
Buckner, either upon the covenants i4 his -deed or (by subrogation) on the contract with Shackleford ;. but as-it is, his negligence has put'that. beyond reasonable probability.
But if Upshaw had been vigilant against Coats and Buckner,.
'it is no excuse for his laches as.against these complainants. He
did kiow, as early as i799, that these complainants were in possession of these lands, claiming and improving them as their own.-

JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

67

Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.
Now in 1815, he was pursuing Buckner for the money; and up
to 1820 the suit in chancery was going forward- as to the Coats
claim. He till considered the contract as open, and never makes
any demand of these complainants. In 1.818, he seeks to turn
them out of possession by an action of ejectment. He d6es not
ask them for the money. He does not exhibit his right to receive
it; but demands their land, and when he comes to show his right
to that, he exhibits nothing but a void patent.
He then lies by for eight years, until 1826, a ifd obtains a patent
from the United States by means of his deed from Roy the warrantee, which deed was obtained in confirmation of a contract
which le bad released and rescinded; and at last'in 1829, after
these complainants had been in peaceable possessioh, to his
knowleage, for. thirty years, he brings his last ejectment, and
seeks to turn them off the land.
Now, so far as his right to make these complainants pay him
Buckner's' debt is concerned, there has been no, demand for
thirty years, and in the mean time, in consequence of his laches,
these complainants have lost all chance, of indemnity from
Buckner.
Such laches will bar not only a mere equitable lien" for purchase-money, which is the most that Upshaw ever had, but in
equity it would bar a legal title, especiallyone obtained from i
mere trustee, under circumstances like-the present.
The rule prior In tempore,does not apply where the.holder
of the first equity is guilty of laches: Sug. Vend. 728, 729.
We claim, therefore, that Upshaw is not entitled to demand
the Buckner dt'bt from the complainants. If he is entitled to any
relief against the coinplainants, it is only to that. But the decree
of the Circuit Court goes quite beyorld that, and gives him the
land itself, and, in addition, a sum 6f money for rents and profits
larger than the Buckner debt, principal and interest!
,This part of th decree proceeds upon the idea that he sold
this land-that he stands as vendor-his purchase-money unpaidguilty of no laches; and that these complainants, as purchasers,
have *refused to pay him their puirchase-money, or have wrongfully delayed it so long, that he can rescind it, and take back his
land. I have already shown the gross laches on his part, sogross, that if he was the immediate vendor of the complainants,,

68

'.UPREME

COURT.

Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

and they had agreed to pay him the purchase-money, he could
not recover it, but it would long ago have been barred, or presumed to be paid.
But the complainants, what have they done to lose their land
to Upshaw ?
He is not their vendor. He is (as has been shown) the mere
assignee of a'debt, never looking to this land but as a means of
securing its payment. He has never demanded payment of them.
With full knowledge, he allowed them to go on for thirty years,
wasting the best of their lives in reclaiming this land ftom the
wilderness. They have been guilty of no laches-bf no bad
faith. They say in'their bill that they were in total ignorance
of his claim, or of any defect in their title, until he recovered
against them in the last ejectment; andlall this Upshaw admits
in his answer. '.They%never refused to pay the. Buckner debt, for
it was never demanded of them.
And if they had refused, that refusal would not have prejudiced them; but they still would have -saved their land, by applicatiori to equity. That debt was not of their contracting. It
was res inter alios. They had a right to have it fully sifted in
this court. No one can doubt this.
Again. If it were the case of. vendor and vendee, before the
vendor can count time and laches against the vendee, and go for
a rescission, he must show himself ready and able to comply with
his contract. Wilson v. Tappan, 6 0. Rep. 175.
Upshaw could not aemand either money or land, until 1826,
for he could never before that day make a title. And up to this
moment he cannot perform that very contract, with which he is
connected as assignee-the contract between Shackleford and
Buckner. If these complainants are to pay the purchase-money
for Buckner, they can only be asked to, do so upon having the
benefit of that contract and a performance from the other party.
Shackleford stipulates to make Buckner a warrantee deed, and
that deed Upshaw has not yet produced. If Shackleford is dead,
we must have such a deed from his representatives as binds his
estate. Upshaw's deed will not satisfy the contract. We do not
know what he may have done to encumber the title, or how safe
we would be with his warrantee. We are-not bound to take it
as of course.

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

69

Buchannon.et aL v. Upshaw.

Further, before Upshaw could rescind the contract and' take
th6 land, he must place us, as Buckner's assignees, in statu quo.
He must give us the claim on Coats; he must transfer to us the
claim on Buckner, and he -must pay back to us the money he
received from Buckner.
Lastly. The contract for the one thousand seven •hundred
acres is one; it must be rescinded in toto, or not at all; and as to
the,one thousand acres itcan never be rescinded, for. that part of
it is performed.
III..If the court require the complaibants to pay the Buckner
debt' a question arises, whether a pro rata allowance be made
for the £600 paid by the Anderson bond.
It is clearly right to allow that credit. Shackleford sold to
'Buckner two tracts as one, for an entire consideration pf X1020.
The contract speaks of the tw6 tracts; that is, the 'tract of.bne
thousand acre s,-and of seven hundred -acres, "as the one thousand seven hundred acres." There- is no price fixed for one as
distinct from the other; the sale is in solido. The R600 is paid
and endorsed generally upon the contract.. No application was
made to one of the tracts by the parties at the time of the payment. Indeed, without the concurrence of both the parties, such
special application coild not be made. The contract did not
admit it, for here was no case of two debts, or of two- tracts of
land, with distinct-sums due for each. There was but one debt,
due for two'tracts of land, sQld as.one.
IV. As to the rents and profits and improvements.
If the court are of opinion that Upshaw is entitled to the land,
the remaining question is upon that part of the decree .of the
Circuit Court which.touches the allowance to be made to Upshaw
for rents, and to the complainants fdr improvements.
The decree gives to the complainants theirimprovements made
up to theyear 181.8, without interest i and to Upshaw.the annual
rents and interest from 1818 to 1840, by which, in addition to the.
land, now worth from $15,000 to $20,000, -Upshaw recovers a
dearee against the complainants for .$4762 30, -being a little more
than the balance due upon the Buckner debt!,
We claim the true rule to be, to allow improvements up to the
time of bringing. the ejectment. upon whibh- the land was recovered, and to charge rents from that time.

SUPREME COURT.
Buchannon et a]. v. Upshaw.

This is according to the rule fixed by the occupying claimant
law of Ohio.
It is said that law does not apply to this case, as the title of the
complainants is.not adverse to that of Upshaw.
It is shown that the complainants took the possession under a
claim of the fee, having paid their vendor in full, and taken a
conveyance'in: fee. They did not hold in subordination to any
one. Their possession was therefore adverse. Jackson v. Ellis,
13 Johns. 118. The occupying claimant law, therefore, furnishes
a rule of adjustment which this court will follow. Bank of
Hamilton v. Dudley's lessee, 2 Peters, 526.
Morehead and Cox argued for the appellee upon the following
grounds.
The appellants have not sustained by proof the material allegations in their bill.
1. The appellants in their bill charge that Shackleford was.authorized by the appellee to sell the land to Buckner; the answer
negatives the allegation, and there is no proof contradicting the
answer.
2. The appellee, however, admits that in 1800 he gave his
-conditional assent to that sale;.and if the condition had been
complied with on the part of Buckner, his assent would in equity
be construed as having relation back to the time of Shacklefords
contract with Buckner, and have bound him to convey- the land.
The conditions on which his assent to that contract was obtained
are,. Shackleford -agreed to assign him, the contract made with
Buckner, and give him full power and authority to receive from
"Buckner the .4420 then due for the land, with interest thereon, at
the-rate of 5 per cent. per annum, from the 1st day of December,
1797, till, paid, and Buckner was to pay him the money thus due;
and, on those conditions being complied with, the appellee assented to the sale, and bound himself to convey the -land to
Buckner.
S. The conditions on' the. agreement to perform which the
assent of the appellee was obtained, as aforesaid, so far as the
same were to have been performed by Shackleford, were never
performed by him until the 16th of May, 1803. Until those
conditions were performed by Shackleford, the appellee had no

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

71

Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

power or authority to apply to either Buckndr or CoAts for payment, or-to receive and receipt for the purchase-money, if the
same had. been tendered to him. The written order on Copeland,
which Buckner gave to Shackleford, to which we have already
referred, was never transferred by Shackleford 'to the appellee;.
so that the appellee never had any thing to do with the collection
of Coats's bond, or any authority to receive the money-due thereon,
h;d it been collected.
4. That part of the condition, namely, the payment of the
ze420, with ihterest, &c., which was to have been performed by
Buckner, has never been'performed, either by him or by any
other person.for him. The payments credited -on the contract
letween Shackleford and Buckner, while the 'same remained in
possession of O'Bannon, were never received by the appellee.
O'Bannon fiad no 'authority from the appellee to receive from
Buckner partial payments on the contract. His authority was
limited and confined to the receipt of the entire sum due and the
delivery of the deed. The allegation in the appellant's bill, that
O'Bannon was duly authorized by John HI. Upshaw. whom they
charge was invested -with power of substitution, to receive from
Buckner partial payments on said contract, is positively denied
by the appellee in his answer, and that denial is fully sustained
by the depositions of John .H. Upshaw and *the receipt given by
him to the appellee,-for the said original contract left with 0'Ban-.
non, and power- of attorney dated April 4, 1804, to which the
court is r.espectfully referred. From that denial, and those depositions and receipts, we. draw these conclusions: 1st. That the
appellee executed.a deed to Buckner, as, an escrow, and placed
the same in the hands of his agent, John H. Upshaw, for the
purpose of being delivered to Buckner, upon the. receipt from
-him of the R530 9s., the.purchase-money then due on the land.
2d. That, for the purpose of avoiding any difficulty with "Buckner respecting the conveyance of said land, the appellee emppwered his said agent; on the receipt of the said purchase-money,
to execute to Buckner such other or further conveyance or assurance as might be deemed necessary, in, order to invest in Buck-.
ner a: 'perfect title. 3d. That said -agent was not empowered to
receive partial payments on said contract, but was limited and
confined to the receipt of-the entire sum due. The words in the.

72

SUPREME COURT.:
Buchannon et aL v. Upshaw.

power referred to in said receipt are, "and .to receive of said
Buckner the sum of five hundred and thirty pounds," &c., "for
the above land." *The appellee was willing to confirm the contract upon being paid the entire sum due, but not otherwise. He
was not,-by the receipt of partial payments, willing to extend the
time of.payment of the residue to an indefinite period. 4th. That
said agent was.not, by his principal) invested with power of substitution. This is inferrible from the fact that no such power is
referred to in the receipt which he gave to his principal. 5th. That
the power given to said agent by his principal does not contain,
as charged in the appellant's bill,.a clause authorizing him to
receive any balance that might be due on said contract, if any
was due. 6thi. What the power given by said agent to O'Bannon
was not greater than said agent himself possessed; for said agent
deposes and says, "I certainly did not consider myself authorized
to tender Bucknera title iuntil the money was paid,-and I certainly did not give to O'Bannon a power greater than the one
possessed by myself." And, 7th. That O'Bannon was not the
attorney of the appellee for the purposes charged in the- appellant's bill. If these conclusions are sustained by the premises, i
results that O'Bannon had no power derived, from the appellee
to receive partial payments on the contract, and that the credits
endorsed on said contract by him must be laid out of the case.
The onus of sustaining O'Bannon's authority to receive partial
payments rests with the appellants, and they have totally failed
in proving the truth of their allegation. The credits endorsed on
the contract refer to receipts.given to Buckner. The'appellants
claim under Buckner; why, then, if those payments were made
on said contract by the authority of the appellee, do not the appellants produce those receipts, and the authority, granted to
O'Bannon, authorizing him to receive those partial payments?
'The appellants have presented no valid excuse for their non-prodifction;. and the very fact of keeping back those documents, if
such really exist, raises a .suspicion that all was not right, and
that, if they were protuced, they would prove -the allegations in
their bill to be untrue. The two payments endorsed without the
authority of the appellee must,.therefore, we respectfully submit,
be laid out of the case.
The X 600, the proceeds of Anders6n,'s bond, was applied in

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

75

Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

payment of the money'.due by Buckner to Shachleford on the
one thousand acres of land surveyed for Javin Miller, and which
was sold by the latter to the former, as aforesaid, and no part of.
that sum was applied in payment of the lands in question. This
position is sustafiied from the following facts and'circumstances:
1st. Shackleford, at thetime he contracted with Buckner, was
invested with the equitable" title to this one thousand, acres, but
he was not invested with either the equitable or legal title to the
seven hundred acres of land in question, and it is therefore reasonable to infer that -he applied that-sum to the payment of the
debt due to himself.
2d. ;e600 was the precise sum which was to be paid by Buckner to Shackleford for that one thousand acres of land.
3d. In 1803, Shackleford procured Chamberlayne, the patentee
of said one thousand acres of land, to- execute a *0eed of conveyance for the same to Buckner, and the said deed and the
patent which Chamberlayrne had obtained for -the land were after-wards transmitted to Buckner, by the hands of. the appellee or
his agent, John H. Upshaw. Would Shackleford have done that
if any portion of the purchase-money still remained due to him
by Buckner?
4th. When Shackleford, in 1800, first informed the appellee
that he had sold to Buckner the seven hundred acres of land in
question, and agreed to-assign to him'the contract he had made
with Buckner, he stipulated with him that the entire purchasemoney was 'till due for the land by Buckner.
5th. When Shackleford, in 1803, assigned to the appellee 'the
contract he "had made.with Buckner, (for the sale to him of the
lands in question,) he covenanted with the appellee that there
was then due by Buckneri on said"contract, the sum of e53O 99.
6th. When John H. Upshaw, as agent of the appellee, afterwar4s called -upon -Buckner for payment, he 'acknowledged that
the 'entire sum was due, and promised to make payment in some
short time, if said ageit would wait ' The said agent did wait,
as requested, but' no payments were made to him by-Buckner. We therefore assume it as an indisputable fact, that.no part of
the purchase-money. for the.lands in, question was ever paid by
-Buckne, either *6Shackleford or to the appellee, or to any'other
person authorized by the appellee to receive -and receipt for the
G
'"
VOL. I.-10

-74

SUPREME COURT.
Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

-same. No money .was ever collected, either by Shackleford or
the appellee, on Coats's bond. The defence successfully made
by Buckner in. the Circuit Court of Kentucky to the action
brought by the appellee, as assignee, to recover the purchasemoney due on the land, evinced a determination on his part not
toperform the contract -he had made.with Shackleford, and, by
that unequivocal.act, the appellee had a right to declare- the con.tract at an end, and no further obligatory on him; and he did so
declare it, and immediately thereafter commenced an action of
*ejectment in the seventh Circuit Court of the United States, district of Ohio, against the -tenants in possession, who claimed to
have derived their title under Buckner. To that action, the appellants, or the persons under whom they claim, were admitted
as. defendants,.and, on trial,' a verdict and .judgment were rendered in their favour, on -the ground that the appellee, who was.
the lessor of the plaintiff, was. ofily invested with the equitable
title, under and in virtue of ihe .deed to, him from Roy, which
Was based on a patent granted to him by thecommonwealth of
Virginia, -which bore date subsequent to the date of the deed-of
cession-froM Virginia to the United States. Being thus defeated
in every'attempt made by him, first, to recover the money for
which the land had been sold. by Shackleford to Buckner, and,
_second, to.recover possession of the land 1itselg the appellee '~ocured from• Roy and wife a second. deed of conveyance, and, in
1826, obtained from the United States a patent for'the land, on
which he instituted an action of ejectment again~t; the appellants,
and.obtained a verdict and judgment of eviction against them;
and in order to obtain a perpetual injunction.against'further procee.dings on that judgment, and to compel a conveyance of the
lands in question, the appellant filed the bill under which the
decree complained of was rendered.
5. And the question here occurs, were this-a suit prosecuted by
Buckner or his legal representatives against the appellee, in order
to compil the specific execution of th.e contract entered into be-tween Shackleford and .Buckner, for the sale and conveyance of
the lands in question, would this court grant 'the relief asked ?
Buckner has neither paid nor tendered payment'of tbe purchasemoney. Would this court, then, decree in his favour? Is it not
a rule in equity, that where the party. to a contract not only peg-

JANUARY TERM, 1843.
]3uchannon et al.

75

v. Upshaw.

lects to perform it, but, by his conduct, eiinces a- determination
not to perform it, that the opposite party is at liberty to put an
end to it; and that where the purchaser neglects for an unreasonable length of time, although often requested, to pay the purchase-money, and in the mean time; as in the present -case, the
land has increased in value tenf6ld, that a court of equity will
n6t interpose in his behalf, by compelling the specific execution
of the contract? If Buckner had made prompt payment, the
appellee could readily have invested the avails of the sale in
other western lands, which, at this day, would have been worth
thousands of dollars more than the lands-in question, with all the
improvements which have been made on the lands by the appellants, and have avoided the trouble and expense of many long
and wearisome Tourneys, and the expenditure of thousands of
dollars in ineffectual attempts to recover his just rights. Is it
not also a- rule in equity, that he who asks must himself do"
equity to him against whom he asks it; and that he who claims
the aid of a court of equity must show that he has not only been
at all times ready, willing, anxious, and eager to perform" the
stipulations on his part, but that he has either actually performed
or tendered performance on his part, and that the opposite party
refused compliance on his part? These principles are so well
understood; and have so often received thie sanction of this court,
that we do not deem it necessary to cite authorities in support of
them. We therefore respectfully submit, that were Buckner or
his heirs the parties complainant in this- suit, that a specific execution of the contract in question would not be decreed by this
honourable court.
6. Do the appellants, as against the appellee, stand upon more
favourable ground in a court of equity than Buckner or his representative would have stood? No consideration ever moved from
the appellants to the appellee as an inducement to the conveyances asked; they never tendered, nor do they, in their bill, offer
to pay the consideration money contracted to be paid by Buckner. They were not parties to the contract made by Shackleford
with Buckner, and consequently no privity of contract- exists between them and the appellee. Upon what ground or principle,
then, are the appellants, as against the appellee, entitled to the
relief prayed for in their bill? Upon the ground of privity of

76

SUPREME "COURT.
Buchanon et ai. v. Upshaw.

contract, they are not. entitled to relief, because such privity exbenefit of the
isted. The app.ellants have; however, invoked the
contract between Shackleford and Buckner, which has been
assighred to the appellee; but can. that contract, if it were admit'ted they-are entitled to its benefit, aid-them? The terms of that
contract were never performed by buckner. If they are entitled
to the aid of that coitract, it must be on -the iground, that in
.equity, though not at law; they must be considered as Buckner'sassignees and consequently, in reference to that contract, as
standing in his shoes; and with re erence to the appelleelas subject to the same equity to which it was subject in the hands of
Buckner. As the asignees of Buckner,.tliey acquired no better
title in equity than was .vested in Buckner at the time. of the
assignment. If, therefore, Buckner could not in equity compel
the specificexecution of the contract in question, neither can the'
appellants compel it. The assignee of a contract for the sale and
conveyauce of land, where he himself.has neither performed nor
tendered performance, must abide 'the fate which awaited fhe
assignor, *here he neither fulfilled nor offered to fulfil the terms
of the cbntraets, the specific execution of which is sought. In
Stanley vt. G~dsby, 10 Peters, 522., this court is reported to have.
said; "If a complainant does not aver in his bill his readiness to.
. pay both 'principal and interest, he can have no standing . in a
court of equity." The payment or tender of the purchasemoney is 'indispensable on the part of him who asks the speeific
execution 'of a contract. Stratford v. Alborough, Ridgeway.s
Ch..R., and 2 Bligh's R. 596,4. Again: both Bu'ckner and the
appellants have trifled with the appellee; and it sdems to be a
settled rule in equityi that where one party to an agreenment
trifles) and shows a backwardness to perform on his part, equity
'will. not decree a specific performance in his favour. Harrington
v. Wheeler, 11 Ves.'856,. In the case of Edwards v..Parker,
lately pending in Brown county, Ohio, which was a bill to enforce
the specific execution of a contract, the Supreme Court of the
state refused to decree in favour of the complainant, on account
of the-lapse of time since the contract should -have been complied with. S. P. Mayo v. Deschamps, 13 Ves. 25; Grant v.
Humphrey; 8 Yes. 815; and Highby v. Whittaker, 8 Ohio, 201.
In this last case -the purchaser of the land delayed payment of

JANUARY "T.ERM, 184 .

77

Buchannon et- i.L v. Upshaw.

the prindipal part of the piurchase-money for about ten years after
it was due, and the cofirt decided that he could not compel, in
equity, the slecific execution of the contract; that the trifling
indisposition of ihe complainantj his Want of integrity and intention to pay for the property, and his utter inability to do it, unquestionably gavd to Burchard, under whoni Whittaker claimed,
the right to put an end to the contract; and that as.the omplainant had occupied the land sold, the fair xent of which was
equal to the actual payment made, Brunce, the seller, had a right"
to rescind without offering to refund the amount received. See,
also, Remington v. Kelly et al., 7 Ohio R. 103. It is now more
than forty-one years since .the purchase-money for the lands in
question fell due, and during that whole period neither Buckner
nor the appellants have either paid or offered to pay the purchasemoney; upon what ground, then, can they insist that the decree
is erroneous? Every man is to suffer for his own delay or neglect. Speake v. Speake, 1 Yes. 217. The plaintiff in equity,
if he either Will not, or, through his own negligence, he cannot,
perform the whole on his side, hds• no .title in equity to the performance.of the other party. Butdlier v. Hinton, 1 Ch. Ca. 802;
Keen v. Stukely, Gil. R. 155; -Pope. v. Roots, 7 Bro. P. C. 184;.
Earl of Evershap. v. Watson, -Rep. Temp. Finch, 445; 2 Freeman, 35; 'Hutton v. Long, Temp. Finch, 12.- So, if the plaintiff has not performed his part of the agreement, he -must, in
equity, show that he was in no default in not performing it,
but must also allege that he is still ready to .perform it. Fields v.
HookeF, Merivale, 224; and Fane v.. Spencer, Merival .; 430, in
note. . And upon this reasoning it is, that when a fian has trifled
or shown a backwardness in performing his part of the contract,
equity will not decree a specific contract in his favour, especially
if circumstances are altered. Hayes v. Caryll, Jan. 1792; 5 Vin.
Abr. 53S, pl. 18. Neither vill. equity decree an- agreement
which- appears afterwards to have been discharged by parol,.
though the Qriginal agreement.was in writing. Goman v. Salisbury, 1 Ves. 240; Lord -Milton v. Edgworth, 6 Brown, P. C.
580; Segal v. Miller, 2 Ves. 299; Inge v. Sippingwell, Dick. 469;
Dayed v. Simonds, 1 Cox's R. 406; and Stephens v. Cooper,
1 Johns. Ch. R. 420, 430. In the case of-Heafly v. Hill, the specific performance of an agreement to grant a lease was refused,
G2

78

SUPREME COURT.
Buchannon

et al. v. Upshaw.

the plaintiff having failed to file his-bill for more than two years
since notice from defendant of his intent not to perform his contract, on account of the plaintiff's non-ftlfilment of his part of the
agreement. In this case, at the time of service of the declarations
in the first action of ejectment brought by the appellee against
the appellants, the appellants had notice that the appellee did not
intend to perform the agreement in question, on account of the
neglect of Buckner innot paying the purchase-money due on the
land; and yet no payment or offer of payment was made by
them, nor did they file their present bill until more than ten, years
had elapsed after the receipt of actual notice that the appellee
considered the contract at an end, and no further obligatory on
him. Even in the bill which the appellants have filed, (but
which they never filed until all their efforts to baffle the appellee
at law had failed,) they have not teidered payment of the purchase-monjoy, unless that clause in tae prayer of their bill which
asks for a decree upon such terms as the court may seem just can
be construed as an offer to pay the purchase-money due, with
interest. To construe that clause in the prayer of the bill as an
offer to pay would be giving to it a construction 'which is incompatible. with the general frame -of the bill, and the -grounds on
which the appellants have based their right to the relief invoked.'
The appellants. have based their right to relief on three grounds:
1st. That Shackleford, or the appellee, neglected to collect the
amourit due on Coats's bond. 2d. -If that be not true, that they,
or one of them, neglected to collect the purchase-money of Buckner. And, 3d. That the .appellee never acquired his legal tiile
until 1826. And, first, as to Coats's bond: Were it true, as
charged, 'that it was through the mismanagement or omission of
Shackleford, or the appellee, or both of them, that Coats's bond
was not collected, .would the condition of th appellants be improved thereby? We think not. The balance due on Coats's
bond was £250, and the entire sum due was £420. Consequently, there remained due, after deducting Coats's bond, £170,
which fell due in 1799. This balance has never been either.paid
or tendered to the appellee. If, therefore, the balance of Coats's
bond wag lost through the negligence of Shackleford and the appellee, or one of them, that negligence only operated as a release
pro tanto of the obligation of Buckner to pay, or tender pay-

JANUARY TERM, 184 .

79

Buchannon et 'al. v. Upshaw.

ment of the purchase-money; and from thence it results,.s the.
£170, with interest, was never paid or tendered,.that the appellants ale not 4ntitled to -the relief which they ask. But is it true
ihat Shackleford and tie appellee, or one of them, had the management of the claim against Coats; and that, through their mis.
management or neglect, or the mismanagement or fieglect of any.
of them, said claim was lost? Coats's bond was never assignedby Buckner to. 'Shackleford; nor did the parties stipulate that
Shackleford should have the management or control of the suit
which had been ordered on that bond. The stipulation on the
part of Shackleford was to wait for the amount due on Coats's
bond until judgment was obtained. thereon. That stipulatiorn
was coupled ",vith this. condition, .namely: that 'Buckner gave to
him an order in writing, on the attorney in wjhose hands Coats's
bond had been placed for collection, requesting him to pay over
th6 money to Shackleford, when collected. Buckner did not give
the written order which he covenanted to give, but gave to
Shackleford 'an order of the description promised,..on Copeland,
who never •was'employed, nor ever had any thing to do in* the
collection of Coats's .bond. Buckner's 'covenant was 'therefore
broken - and so much of the.. purchase-money as was to have
been paid by the proceeds of, Goats's bond became due'on the
day the contract between Backner and• Shackleford was exectited.
But.if this be deemed too rigid aconstruction of Buckner's uudertaking, as- it respects 'the order, in writing,-he obligated himself to give to Shackleford, yet it is clearly discoverable frgm the
words as well as from the general scope and design of the p.ar-ties, as expressed in the contract, thtt-Shackleford only stipulated'
to wait for the R250 until judgment was rendered on Coats'sbond. That judgment was rendered 'in May, 1800, and -on that
day, at all events, the remaining balance of the purchase-money
of'tie lands in question fell due. Bucknei:was informed by
Shackleford when- judgment would be rendered, and that Coats
intended to 'enjoin the judgment. The evidence shows that neither Shackleford -nor the appellee had any management or control of the, suit on Coats's, bond; 'that neither of them were
guilty of any mism4nagement or neglect, in relation thereto; that
the attorney having tlxe management pf that suit procured judgment, to be rendered thereon at as early a day as practicable; that,

SUPREME COURT.
Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

after judgment, every reasonable effort was made to enforce collection, but without effect; that the insolvency of Coats was
ultimately asceitaihed'; that, from weighing the evidence with
care, the inference is strong that Coats was insolvent in 1797, and
that Buckner was duly notified of the result. We therefore
respectfully submit, that the first ground assumed by the appellants, on which they assert their claim to relief, has n6 solid base
on which to rest. Their second ground is equally unsustainable.
What has the solvency or insolvency of Buckner, at certain pe-.
riods, to do with this case?, He stipulated with Shackleford to
pay for the land a certain amount, and within certain periodsuncertain, it is true, at the time of contracting, but which were
rendered certain by the -happening. of the events referred to in
the contract. Shackleford waited until those events happened.
The X170 fell due at all events in 1799, if not before, and the
£250 in the May followi.g' when judgment was rendered on.
Coats's bond. Shackleford did not stipulate to wait for the purchase-money longer than those periods. If not paid then, he had
a'right to put an end to the'contract. There is. no clause in the
contract which required him to sue for'the purchase-money in
case Buctmer failed to pay within the stipulated periods. It was
therefore optional with Shackleford, on Buckner's neglecting or
refusing.tp pay within the stipulated periods, either to put an end
to the contract or to sue for the money due. If Buckner was.
able to pay, why did he not pay? .Until he made payment, the
equitable title to the land purchased, or rather contracted for, did
not vest in him. There was no consideration to raise a case in
him. If he was able to.pay, why did not the appellants compel
him t6 make payment? Why did they not see that the money
they had contracted to pay Buckner for the land was applied fo
the payment of the purchase-money whichBuckner had c~ntracted to pay Shackleford? The -appellants claiming under
Buckner are chargeable with notice of the tact, that he only held
title under his contract with Shackleford, which obligated him to
pay A420, with interest, before he could demand of Shackleford
the legal title. Was it not, therefore, their duty to have seen that
the purchase-money paid by them was faithfully applied to the
payment and discharge of Buckner's contract with Shackleford ?
Buckner's. solvency or irsolvency has therefor6 nothin&to'd6 \vith

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

81

Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.
the case. The consideration has never been paid or tendered,
and consequently the appellants have no right in.equity, as
against the appellee.
. But it is also insisted that the appellee never acquired the legal
title to the lands in question until 1826; and consequently, until
he did acquire the legal title, that neither Buckner nor those
claiming under him were bound either to pay or tender the purchase-money. But did they either pay or tender the purchasemoney when the legal title was obtained? No; they neither
did the one nor the other. How, then, are they entitled to relief
on *that ground? They did not offer to do equity when every
shadow of suspicion was removed from the appellee's title. But
did the defect in the appellee's legal title excuse them from the
strict performance, or at least a tender of -performance,- of the
original contract between Shackleford and Buckner? We think
not. The appellee's equitable title was perfect, and he, as well
as Shackleford and Bucknei, believed that he was also invested
with the perfect legal title, in virtue of the deed of conveyance
from Roy, who had obtained a patent for the land fr6m the state
of Virginia. The attorney who instituted the first action of ejectnment f6r the appellee, and the appellee himself, must have been
impressed with the belief that the appellee was at that time invested with the legal title, otherwise the conduct of the attorney
was dishonourable and dishonest, and that of the appellee simple
and foolish. Upon comparing dates, it was found that the patent
had issued since the date of the deed of cession, and consequently
that the appellee was not invested with the legal title. Did that
discovery excuse the appellants from paying or tendering the
purchase-money, in pursuance of the terms of the. original contratt? The appellants either did or did not know, at the time'
the purchase-money fell due, that the appellee ivas-not invested
with the legal title. 'If they did know, it was their duty to have
tendered the money, demanded a good title, and, at the same
time, to have informed the appellee of the defect which existed
inthe title; and, on the other hand, if they did not know.of the
defect, they have noexcuse for .the neglect in making.payment.
The appellants have presented no valid excuse for the nonpayment or tender of the purchase-money, and consequently are not
entitled to the relief claimed.
VOL. L-il

82

SUPREME COURT.
Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

The conduct of the appellants, evinced by the institution and
prosecution of their separate suits, in Clermont county, against
the appellee, to which we havq referred in the abstract, at the
time this guit was pending in the Circuit Court, does not present
them or their case in the most favourable point of view before a
court of equity. He who asserts a claim in a court of equity
ought to present himself with clean hands and a pure heart, if he
expeefs to receive a favourable response to his petition.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an injunction bill, to restrain the defendant from taking
6ut a writ of possession and an execution for costs, on a recovery,
of seven hundred acres of land, by Upshaw, in an action of
ejectment against ihe complainants in'the Circuit Court of Ohio.
They ask a perpetuat injunction of the execution, and a specific
decree for title.
The complainants, and those under whom they claim, purchased from' Philip Buckner, paid a full price, and took deeds
dated in 1798 and 1799.
Buckner purchased, from Lyne Shackleford in November, 1797,
when the latter had no title to, or interest in the land; Upshaw,
the respondent, being the owner. It had been granted to Beverly
Roy bythe commonwealth of Virginia, in 1789, and sold by Roy
to Shackleford. In April, 1797, Shackleford sold to Upshaw,
and directed the title to bo made to him. 'On the 20th of July,
1797, Roy conveyed to. Upshaw; and in November afterwards,
Shackleford sold a second time to Buckner.
To remedy this defect of title and want of good faith, in April,
1801, Shackleford entered into a'covena-ut.with Upshaw, by which
the sale to Buckner,. of November, 1797,.was confirmed; and in
May, 1803, Shackleford and Upsh'aw entered into another covenantagain confirming the contract between Shacldetdrd ahd Buckner; and.which is more specific in its terms than the first, of 1801.
By these contracts alone Upshaw was bound : and on them the
billis founded, and a specific decree asked. They must be taken
together: so .the complainants treat them in their bill; ndr can
the court do otherwise.
Upshav;, having'stipulated to.make title -toBuckner, on receiving £420 the purdfiase-money,-took an assignment of the cove-

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

83

Buchannon et aL v. Upshaw.

nant between Buckner and'Shackleford; ori which it appears by
the covenant 6f 1803, R420 was remaining unpaid.
It is insisted that a bill for a specific performance of the. contracts, could not be maintained *until the purchase-money was
tendered to Upshaw, the vendor; and of this opinion was the.
Circuit Court; and principally on this ground, taken in conneetion with other circumstances, dismissed the bill.
We are of ppinipn thatif such.i rule exists .in any case, it'has
no application to the ohe before us. *The complainants purliased
from Buckner when he had no interest in the land; and at that
time they-acquired no equity against Upshaw: yet of this fact
they had no kn6wledge, and rested confident that they w6re
occupying and improving the land under a good title. Nor did
they have any knowledge of the' contracts between Shackleford
and Upshaw, after their purchase from-Buckner, for many years;.
probably not until- about the time the recovery was had againste
them in the action of ejectment in 1831. It vas not Buckner's
interest to give the information; and Shackleford took no further
trouble on himself in the matter after 1803; he arid -Upshaw
residing in -the remote parts of Virginia, five hundred miles from
the complainants.
"Upshaw admits, in his answer, that he did not know Buckner
had sold the land; or that it was in ihe possession of the
complainants, until about the time he brought his first action of
ejectment, in October, 1818: that he. sued for the land,. because
he had failed to obtain the purchase-money from Buckner. The
suit failed, because the patent from the commonwealth of Virginia was void; the country having been ceded (north of the
Ohio river) by Virginia to the United States, before the land was
granted.
In 1826, Upshaw, on the proddetion of the patent to Roy and
his deed, obtained a patent from the United -States, in confirmation of the Virginia grant. On this he brought ano.ther suit'
against the complainants; and. in 1831, recovered the.land. - This
is the judgment the bilf seeks to enjoin.
During all this time, Upshaw was a stranger to the complainants: he set up .no claim against them for the purchase-money.
due from Buckner to himi he sought the land, and disavowed
that Buckner's contract With the complainants boind him. And

84

SUPREME COURT.
Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

so he continues to do. His principal defence in the answer to the
bill is, "That having no contract, or privity of contract, with the
purchasers from Buckner, he conceives they can have no right to
come into a court of equity to enforce a specific performance of
the contract with Buckner."
It is manifest that at no time were these complainants afforded
the opportunity to pay the purchase-money due from Buckner to
Upshaw.
*Wetherefore hold, that complainants were in no default prejudicial to their. original equities, for failing to discharg?, or offer-:
ing to discharge, the-bond of Bu'ckner.
Nor could the complainants be justly charged with sleeping on
their rights, had the true state of the facts been knowa to them.
Until 1826, Upshaw was in no situation to comply with his part
of the contract; that is, to make title. A court of chancery would
have enjoined the payment of the purchase-money before the
patent issued from -the United States-and set aside the contract,
if the vendor could not have made title.
Neither can this be treated as a stale claim, for another reason.
The complainants went into possession under Buckner's deeds,
dwelt upon, and in good faith improved the land; and are now
seeking to protect their possessions and homes, in affirmance of
their deeds.
We also hold that there was privity of contract between Upshaw and the complainants. When hc sanctioned Shackleford's
contract with Buckner, he became a party to it: Buckner had
assigned all its benefits to the complainants,. and they must be
treated as rightful assignees.; with the modifications imposed by
the contracts of 1801 and 1803, between Upshaw and Shackleford.
The equitable, title being in the complainants by a contract
complete in all its parts, they are entitled to a specific decree of
course, on principles too familiar to require authorities to support
them. On this part of the case the court has had neither doubt
or difficulty in arriving at a conclusion favourable to a specific
decree.
The complainants being entitled to relief, the next questionis,
on what terms? For as they ask the active aid of the court to
coerce performance of the respondent'i contracts, they can only
have such aid on the terms that they do him equity. A rule

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

85

Buchannon et al. V. Upsha;. "

withbut an exception, within our"tecollection. Having dealt for
an equitable title, complainants took it s.ubject to all the equities
existing between their immediate vendor, Buckner, and his
vendor, Upshaw It follows, they must perform the covenants.
favourable to the defendant found in the contracts on which they
seek relief. Therefore, before U pshaw can be compelled to cbnvby the.land, he is entitled to receive the ptirchase-money; unless
his right is cut off by the contract, or has been forfeited by his
subsequent conduct.
The first objection is, that in the contract between Shackleford
and Buckner, there is a power given *to the latter to sell; until
which time Shackleford agreed to wait for a portion of the money:
that is, as to 4-170; provided the resale was made by the 1st of
January, 1799: before which time, tie sale was made to- some of,
the complainants. It is true in the nature of buying and selling,
that where a power of resale is given to the vendee, he has conferred on him the corresponding power to. receive payment. But
this could not affect Upshaw's title: "Buckner took no interest by
his contract with Shackleford; nor did the complainants acquire
any by their purchase from Buckner. Their equities originated
with Upshaw's sanction, given After the power had expired. He
might sanction the contract of Shackleford with Buckner, or not,
at his election; and, of-course, modify it to suit his own interest.
Havipg the transaction in his power, he saw proper to become a
party to the contract on the terms that he retained a lien on the
land for th £420: First, by the covenant of 1801, he boufid himself to Shackleford, to proceed against the land if he failed to receive payment from Buckner: -and, Secondly, by that of 1803, he
bound himself to convey to Buckner on being paid the- 420.
The bill being founded on these'contracts; Upshaw is entitled to
be paid the purchase-money, irrespective of the stipulation that
Buckner was authorized to resell, by his con'tract with Shackleford.
In the'covenanis 6f 1801, and 1803, Upshaw admits that Shackle
ford sold to Buckner with his consent, and it is insisted for complainants that Upshaw must 1e held to have authorized Shackle'ford to sell before the contradt of 1797 was made. All the evithe record of Upshaw's sanction. is found in the
dence we find .in
contracts of 1801, and 1803; by these he was not bound to convey
until be received payment for the land ; we think in' this modiH

86

SUPREME COURT.
Buchannon et al..v. Upshaw.

fled form is Upshaw bound, and that he never intended simply
to sanction Shackleford's sale to Buckner.
Next it is contended, respondent was negligent in not collecting a bond upon Coats, on which -250 was due. Upshaw's
covenants have no reference to this security. It was delivered
over to Shackleford by Buckner for collection; credit was to be
given for the money, if collected, on Buckner's bond. The claim
was diligently, pursued, but Coats proved insolvent: so that there
is nothing in this objection.
Again, it is contended, -and with much force, that Upshaw was
grossly negligent id failing to collect the £420 from Buckner. He
received Buckner's covenant in 1803. In 1804; it was sent by
John H. Upshaw from Virginia to Kentucky for collection; the
agent was fully authorized to receive the money and to 'make
title to the land on its payment; which Buckner evaded, and the
contract was put into the hands of another agent, O'Bannon, who.
collected $200 from Buckner: and in 1814, Buckner. was sued in
Upshaw's name as assignee, and the suit failed because an assignee could not sue upon such an instrument. During this time,
Upshaw had no valid title to the land, although there can be no
doubt he thought the Virginia patent valid; still he could not
have coerced payment from Buckner until 1826, when the patent
from the United States was obtained; had the latter resisted payment on .this ground. Under all the circumstanc.es we think Upshaw did not forfeit his right to demand the purchase-money from
the complainants.
Shackleford sold to Buckner two tracts of land; one of a thousand acres, and this in controversy of seven hundred acres, for
the gross sum of £1020 ; and obtained £600 on Anderson's bond
in part payment. It is insisted that this sum must be applied in
discharge of the tomplainants, as seven hundred is to one thousand; and that they are only bound for the residue.
The complainants are compelled to rely on Upshaw's contracts
of 1801 and 1803,to maintain their claim to reliefand to affirm them
in all their parts. By these. contracts it appears the seven hundred acre tract was ,estimated at £420, and that no part of the
purchase-money for this tract had then been paid by Buckner:
he- was concluded from asserting the contrary, and so 'are thecomplainants.

JANUARY TERM, 1843,

87

Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

The next question is, from what time are the complainants
-bound to pay interest on the unpaid purchase-money. They insist from the time Upshaw obtained his patent from the United
states, in 1826. Respondent insists he is entitled to interest from
the time the debt fell due against Buckner, or the 1st of January,
1799. Until the complainants were notified that, as purchasers of
Upshaw's title, they were responsible to him for the purchasemoney, and reedgnised as his debtors, they had no opportunity to
make payment: as to them, the debt was payable on demand,
express or implied. Respondent admits in the answer that he
neither pursued the land, or the purchasers under Buckner, until
he failed to obtain payment froin the latter. His first assertion
of claim, was by the suit in ejectmeni in 1818; after which the
purchasers cannot be heard to say, they remained ignorant of the
defects in their own title, or of Upshaw's rights; it was imposed
upon them to trace up the outstanding equities favourable, and
unfavourable. 'Had they done so, the contracts of 1801, and
' 1803, would have been discovered,and the state of the title explaified: this complainants did in.1831; and it could have been.
done quite as conveniefitly in 1818. We therefore deem the suit
equivalent to a demand.
That Upshaw had no legal title in 1818, is no excuse: The
complainants enteredc upon, occupied, and enjoyed-. the frtits
of the land, under his title; and could, no more be allowed
to disavow it while they rem'in'ed in possession, than- could a
tenant for years, be permitted to disavow his landlord's title. So
in effect, this .court held In Galloway v.. Finley, 12 Peters,264.
But being remote purchasers of Upshaw's title; not from him,
but'an6ther; and only bound. to pay the purchase-money by the
rules adopted by courts of chancery; by the same rules, the complainanits are entiiled to an.abatement of interest in part, accruing
on Buckner's contract: and as the. right, to receive interest de-.
pends oni the time when .Upshaw notified them that they were
held responsible for Buckner's failure to pay ; and the action of
ejectment, of October, 1818, being equivalent to a demand of payment, legal interest accrued from that date.
This we deem a well-founded principle, where a personal demd'nd existed upon real security, and is -brought forward at a late

88

SUPREME CO URT.
Buchannon et al. v. Upshaw.

day. Interest may be alloWed at the discretion of the court, only
from the time of filing the bill, in such cases. The rule is estab-,
lished in the Court of.Chancery in England, and can be properly
applied in this case.
Pickering v. Lord Stamford, 2 Ves. jr.'
272, 582. And under similar e.ircumstances it equally applies
where mesne profits are claimed. Acherly v. Roe, 5 Ves. 565.
We 6rder that the $200 paid to O'Bannon be deducted from
the .420; leaving $1200 due: on this sum interest .will be
allowed from the 15th of October, 1818, until paid.- 'As the
record does not show when the action of'ejectment was brought,
we assume the middle of the m6nth as the true time; the interest
to be after the rate of six per cent. per annum.
The purchase-money will be apportioned among thecomplainants, according'to the original value of the several tracts when
purchased from Buckner: and the price paid to him taken as the
measure of value. Those claiming under Buckner's vendees, will
be governed by the same rule, of their vendor's. If the money
is not paid in a limited time, sales will be ordered, of all, or any
of the tracts, at the discretion of the Circuit Court, to raise the
money.
The injunction at law, in so far as to restrain the writ of possession, will be made perpetual: but will be dissolved as to the
judgment for costs, so that an execution may issue to collect them.
The costs of this suit in the Circuit Court, will be equally divided between the complainants, and the respondent, Upshaw;
they paying half, and he the other half: and the complainants
will contribute among each other, in the same proportion that
they are bound to do in discharging the decree for the purchasemoney.
The appellee. Upshaw will pay the costs" of this court.
O the complainants discharging the purchase-money, the contract between Buckner and Shackleford will be assigned to them
by Upshaw, if he is required to do so: and he will also be decreed to execute deeds to the coniplaindnts for the tracts they
respectively -claim, in such form, and with such covenants, as the
Circuit Court shall direct.
The decree of the Circuit Court for the mesne profits, falls of
course by the revemal of the principal decree.

89

JANUARY TERM, 1843.
Strout et al. v. Foster et al.

ORDER.
Edwin Upshaw, Appellant,
Buchannon and others.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
Ohio, and on the cross appeal by EdwinUpshaw, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
adjudged and decreed by this court, that the said appeal bf Edwin
Upshaw be and the same is hereby dismissed, with costs.
Buchannon and others, Appellants,
Edwin Upshaw.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the-record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it
is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the
decree of. the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is
hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause be and the same
is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to
proceed therein conformably to the opinion and decree of this
court.

JONATHAN STROUT AND OTHERS, LIBELLANTS, &c., APPELLANTS, V.
JA{ES

FOSTER AND

OTHERS,

CLAIMANTS,

AND

OWNERS

OF THE

siPe LOUISVLLE.
If a ship be at anchor, with no sails set, and in.a proper place for anchoring,
and another ship, under sail, occasions damage to her. the latter is liable.
But if the place of anchorage be an improper place, the owners of the vessel
which -is injured must abide the consequences of the misconduct of the
master.
In this case, the anchored vessel was in the thoroughfare of the pass of the
Mississippi river.

THIS case originated in'the District Court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana, was carried, by appeal, to
the Circuit Court, and finally brought here.
VOL. I.-12
H2

