118

SUPREME COURT.,
Morris v. Exec. of Nixon et al.

will give judgment, not for the defendant, but for the plaintiff,
provided the declaration be good; but if the declaration also be
bad in substance, then, upon the same principle, judgment would
be given for the defendant." Piggot's case, 5 Rep. 29 a; Bates
v. Cost, 2 Barn. & Cres. 474.
I believe this case' is the first exception to the above rule.
Notwithstanding the above defective counts, judgment is given
generally against the defendant. It is hoped that this ruling will
not establish a precedent in other cases.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
Illinois, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said- Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is
hereby reversed, and that this cause be and the same is hereby
remanded to the said Circuit Court, with- directions to proceed
therein conformably to to the opinion of this court.

THOIAS MORRIs, COMPLAINANT AND -APPmLLANT, V. MARIA NIXON,
HENRY J. WILLIAMS AND THOMAS BIDDLE, HENRY
AND

MARIA NIXON,

MENT OF HENRY

EXECUTORS OF THE

NIXON,

J.

WILLIAMS

LAST WILL AND TESTA-

DECEASED, kND MARIA NIXON, SOLE DE-

VISEE OF THE SAID LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT OF HENRY NIXON,
AND MARY HUSBAND, AMELIA

M.

MORRIS, ROBERT MORRIS,

LIAM P. MORRIS, CHARLOTTE E. MORRIS,
MORRIS,

CHILDREN AND

CEASED,

AND CORNELIUS STEVENSON

HEIRS -AT LAW OF HENRY
AND

WIL-

HENRY MORRIS, SARAH
SAMUEL

MORRIS, DE-

C.

CLEMENTS,

ADMINISTRATORS OF SAID HENRY MORRIS, DECEASED.

A deed, absolute on the face of it, declared to be a security for money loaned.
Where a bill substantially charges that there is a fraudulent attempt to hold
property under a deed, absolute on the face of it, but intended as a security
for money loaned, evidence will be admitted to ascerfaiu the truth of the
transaction.
Where there is proof of parties meeting upon the footing of borrowing and

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

119

Morris v. Exec. of Nixon et al.
lending, with an offer to secure the lender by a mortgage nuon particular
property, if a deed of the property, absolute on thi face of it, be given tb the
lender, and the lender also take a bond from the borrower, equity wilt interpret the deed to be a security for money loaned, unless the lender shall show,
by proofs, that the borrower and himself subsequently bargained upon. another footing than a loan.
Where a loan is an inducement for the :xecution of a deed which is absolute
on the face'of it, though the loan is not recited as the consideration of the
deed, or as any part of it, if the lender or grantee in the deed treats it substantially as the consideration, or a part of it, equity will declare the deed
to be a security for money loaned.
The answer of one defendant in equity is not evidence in behalf of another
defendant.
If, in equity, it is admitted or proved that one of the documents in a transaction was not intended to be what it purports, it subjects other documents in
the same transaction to suspicion.

THIS was an appeal from -the equity side of the Circuit Court
of the United States in and for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, and arose upon the following facts.
On the 2d of January, 1812, Jonathan Williams and Thomas
Morri s .(the complainant) purchased from the Bank of North
America a parcel of land upon the Schuylkill river, near the
city of'Philadelphia, for the sum of $80,000;. $20,000 of which
was to be cash, and the remaining $60,000 was divided into three
payments of $20,000-each, which were to become due on the 25th
of March, 1814, 1815, and 1816, respectively. The parties gave
their joint and :several bonds for these sums, with a. warrant of
attorney to confess judgment, and a mortgage upon the property.
It .afterwards appeared that Morris was not exclusively the
wner of hts moiety.
On the 27th June, 1812, Morris gave a -power of attorney to
rhbmas Biddr6 and Henry Nixon, to manage the property for him.
In 1815, Williams died intestate, leaving Henry J. Williams
and Christine, the'wife of Thomas Biditle, his heirs at law.
In April, 1816, Morris and, the representatives of Williams
oxecuted a power of attorney to Biddle and Nixon, authorizing
them to enter into and take possession of the property, sell or
lease it, receive the money, execute deeds, &c.
Under this power, they accor&dagly took possession, and exer
cised all manner of ownership over it.
A great number of letters between the parties were given in

SUPR._.ME COURT.
Morris v. Exec. of Nixon et al.

evidence, running from this time to the year 1822, relating to-the
condition and prospects of the property. One of the bonds had
been paid out of the proceeds of sales, and considerable payments made on account of another. The third was wholly unsatisfied.
In 1 22, Morris, residing in New York, applied to Nixon for
a loan, under the circumstances stated so particularly in the opinion of the court that it is unnecessary to mention them here.
Nixon declined making a loan, but took from Morris a deed, absolute upon the face of it, conveying the whole of Morris's
interest to Nixon, and reciting that Nixon had always been
ihterested in the purchase'to the extent of three-sixteenths of the
whole, or three-eighths of Morris's moiety. Nixon then loaned
to lorris $5000, for which he .took his bond.
The deed also recited that there had been allowed to Nixon
tor his agency, the sum of $2000; one-half of which, or $1000,
had been paid by the representatives of Williams, but paid- to
Morris; and five-eighths of the other $1000, (or $625,) were
justly chargeable to Morris; thus bringing Morris in debt to him
$1625, which was released in the deed. It also contained other
recitals, which-are mentioned in the opinion of the court.
Iu 1836, Morris filed a bill on the equity side of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylyania, against Nixon and other parties, alleging that the deed
was only a security for the money loaned; that, at the time of
its execution, there was not, between himself and Nixon, any
contract, agreement, understanding, or negotiation for a sale; that
Nixon had furnished no account of his agency; and praying for
an account and general relief. The parties all answered; and in
April, 1841, the Circuit Court, after a hearing, dismissed the bill
with costs. The complainant appealed to thi court.
Wood, for the appellant.
Sergeant and Williams, for the appellees.
Wood made the following points:
L The deed of the 28th May, 1822, explained by the letter of
the defendant, Nixon, to the plaintiff, would constitute per se a
mortgage. of the premises to secure the loan for $5000.
Il. The said deed was designed by the parties thereto to secure
fhe said loan, and was designed in siibstance to be a morfgage,

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

12! •

Morris v. Exec. of Nixon et al.

assuming the shape of an absolute conveyance, only as a more
effectual security for the loan.
III. :If said Nixon designed otherwise, yet the complainant was
led by his conduct, and by all the circumstances, to consider it a
security for 'the loan, and it ought to be-treated as such.
IV. A deed, though absolute on its face, may. be. shown, by
parol evidence, to be designed as a security for a loan, or a
mortgage, and -more especially by written evidence furnished
about the time the deed was given, and conducing to show the
same.
V. If it should appear that said deed was designed by the
parties to be an absolute conveyance in fee, it ought to be set
aside, or modified and- converted into a mere security for said
loan. .Because:
1." The consideration therein- was grossly inadequate.
2. There was no negotiation for a sale between the parties
thereto, either personally or through authorized agents, and no
estimate of value.
3. The plairitiff, the grantor, therein, was not in a condition to
d6al at arm's length-being much embarrassed, in want of money,
and ignorant of the condition of- the property-the grantee being
a capitalist, having the property under his management, and fully
"
acquainted with its condition and -value.
• 4. Thd grantee'did not fulfil his duty as steward and agent in
apprizing the grantor, at the time of said conveyance, of the condition and value of said property.
5. Undue influence was exercised by the grantee upon the
irantor, in pressing upon him a sale to himself in the condition in
which said grantor was placed, and in the relative coidition in
which they stood at the time to.the property and to each other,
as lender and borrower, steward and principal.
VI. Lapse of time is no bar to the complainant's equity under
the last-mentioned point. Because:
1. Such a bar is not set up and relied upon in pleading.
2. The influence and control of the said grantee in said deed,
over the grantor, and the grantor's ignorance of the condition of
the property, continued until a short time before exhibiting the
bill of complaint.
3. The relationship, in which the parties stood -to each other,VdL. 1.-16
L

122

SUPIREM.E COURT.
Morris v. Exec. of Nixon et al.

as steward and principal, lefider and borrower, will prevent the
bar from applying in equity to the relief sought-for by .the bill.
VII. Lapse of time is not t bar to the complainant's equity,
for a full account and relief in regar& to the" matters arising, as
well before as subsequently to the said deed. All which he is
fully entitled to.
VIII. The agreement-, for a conveyance from the complainant
to Maria-Nixon, should be modified so as to embrace only oneeighth of the plaintiff's moiety of the premises, and she should be
decreed to be entitled only to the net proceeds of said oneeighth part.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The ,complainant, besides other relief.prayed for, asks the aid
of this court to decree a deed made by him to Henry Nixon, and
which is absolute on the face of it, to be a security for money
advanced upon loan, and that he may be at liberty to redeem the
premises conveyed; by paying to Nixon, or by allowing to him,
on acc6unt of the transactions between-them, the moneys loaned
to him by Nixon and such as he may have advanced on account
of the real estate purchased by the complainant and the late Ge.neral Jonathan Williams from the Bank of North America; for
the resale. and improvement of which, the defendants, Henry
Nixon and Thomas Biddle, were the attorneys and agents of the
purchasers.
-The surviving family, however, of General Williams, are in no
way interested in this suit. The controversy is between Thomas
Morris and the representatives of Henry Nixon, *hose death
has occurred since the bill was filed.
The deed from complainant. to 'Henry Nixon bears date -the
28th- May, 1s22.
It recites, the purchase made by Williams and Morris; that
certain portions-of it had been sold and conveyed to other persons,'and that parts had been let on ground-rents, so that the
quantity remaining was about-seventy acres. That the sales and
income of the property had nearly reimbursed the purchaser3 the
first payment which they had made, of $20,000; that there had
been paid upon the _purchase, out.of the income and proceeds of
sale, from time to time, erough to .reduce 'the sum due by the

JANUARY "TERM, 1843.

123

Morris -v. Exec. of Nixon et al.

purchasers, to about $29,000, which was a charge upon the premises, to be borne- by the owners thereof, in proportion to their
respective, iriterests. It then recites.,, that at the time of the execution of the indenture to Williams and "Morris' Henry Nixon.
was, and had continued to be interested with Morris, to -the'
.extent of three-eighth .parts of the moiety, so as to -entitle him'to
thb benefits and subject him' to the obligations of the purchase
in. that proportion.- The consideration of the deed is then recited
to be,- one-half part, "or thereabouts," of a 'debt due :by ihe
compliinant to Thomas Biddld and John Wharton, which 'was.
originally .$4000, for'the security of which, the complainant hid,
with the assent of Henry Nixon, mortgaged a part -of the moiety.
of the original purchase; then'a debt. claimed by Nixon to. be
due to hinf by the complainant'of $1625; $1000 of which it is
said the complainant received on account of Nixon's agency for
the moi~ty :of the purchase belonging to Williams, and $625
'being the proportidn justly chargeable to complainant for Nixon's
agency for the other moiety, , There was a further consideraion
amounting to $4600; being the, amount of two notes which had.
been discounted, at the Bank of North America, for the accom..modation of the complainant, with Nixon's endorsement.
- "The circunistances' attending the execution of the deed are disclosed in the pleadings and by other proofs. in the cause.
The complainant 'resided in New York, and Nixon \ived in
'Philadelphia. The former, being in great pecuniary distress,-and
fearing greater within a few.days, unless he-cbuld mike a loan,
sent his brother, Henry Morris, to Philadelphia, to obtain from
*their broier-in-law, Henry Nixon, an advance of $5000, offering, as' security, his 'intdrest in 'the property bought by himself
and GeneraI.Williams. -Nixon says, in his inswer, that his feelings bding wrought' upon hy the representation, made by Henry
Morris, of the uigent "nature of his brother's 'wants, and the destructive consequences .to be apprehended if he could -notmeeta
demand -there was upon him, he concluded to provide the inoney;
thht, however, before he finally agreed to do so, he told. Henry
Morris that he must consult his counsel upon the subject.
After consulting counsel, he informed Henry Morris, that he
had determined to deal.With the complainant upon no other
terns than an absolute- sale and conveyance of all his interest,

:124

SUPREME COURT.
Morris v. Exec. of Nimpn et aL

'legal and'equitable, in the premises bought by him and Williams;
and -as there would.be a full consideration without it, that tlhe
loan would create a niew debt, for which he would take a separateevidence or security; that he.was advised b.y his counsel to
-write out in.
the deed at large the real consideration,.so that the
truth of the* transaction *might at all times appear. upon the
-apers, and to -take a bond .for the. loan., so that if the purchase
should turn out well,-he would not be-bound to enforce the bord,
lint, in case of misfortune to the complainam, ne Would have evidence of. hi. right-as a-creditor, and, if he should think fit', might
use it for the benefit of the complainant or his family. - In connexion, however, with the foregoing statehient, Nixon declares
that in the course of' his conversation with his counse], he'was
asked, whether the interest of the complainant in the property
was -worth the encumbrances upon it, and what was already due
by.him to Nixon. To which he replied, as he truly believed.
that itwould not bring more; that nothing but the peculiarity of
the circumstances Would, induce him to increase, his interest, or
become .a.purchaser of it; and that he determined, as he had
been advised-by his counsel, to.buy out the complainant's.interest
entirely and absolutely, without anr trust, direct or indirect, ex•r ss or implied; nor any unddr.taiding whatever, that the complainant or any other peison' was to haye a claim or benefit
therefrdm, and thatah' Would deql with him on no other'terms.
*Henry Morris arrived in Philadelphia on the 23d of May. His
first 'conversation with Nixon coulcerhing his errand was-on that
day.; on the 24th, Nixon .copsulted counsel, informed Henry
'Morris of the" result, and on the same day, the same counsel
made a draft of the 'deed. On the same day, too, Nixon wrote
to the complainant the following letter:
-)DEAR MoRRIs,-Henry arrived here"early yesterday, morning,
,.Having baA a. conversation with him on the subject of a loan,.I
have only to say my-best dxertions will be to obtain this object, and
to enable me to-do -which, Henry will immediately call on you to
advise the bnly mode that he or I caft suggest to achieve it.
"You,
I am sure, will have confidence in me as to the mode
proposed .Which Henry will communicate; and be assured my
sincere prayers Will be, and best exertions to promote this allinwportant point.
In haste, truly yours,
H. Nixo.

-

J NUARY TERM, 1843.

125

Morris v. Exec;-of Nixon-et al

This letter was written after Nixon had consulted couinsel; f6r.
he says in his answer, after he had done so, he" thereupon.
returned to Henry Morris, and informed.him of thedetermination"
he'had come to, of dealing upon no other terms than an, absbluteconveyance, withotit any trust, and. taking a bond for the loan;
Anid in the letter it is stated, that-" Henry will immediately call on
you to advise you of the only mode that h. or I ear suggest to
achieve it."The draft of the deed being made on the 24th May, it was
afterwards engrossed by t.ie witness Cash, and he was sent with.
it to New York. He arrived there on the 28th,. the deed was
signed by Morrs .and -hi wife, Cash and" Henry Morris being.
witnesses. Ou the same day, Cash left New Yorkon his return
-to Philadelphia. On the tollowing morning, the 29th "Mly;as it
appears by a letter of that date from Nixon to-the complainant,
Henry "Motris arrived again in Philadelphia.. He says ii his
answer; that he found Nixon resolved to do nothing in the business unless the conveyance:was absolute and bona fide, and he
was therefore obliged to deliver the deed-without' any promises
of trust. And Nixon declares that Henry Morris delivered to
him the deed, and at the same time a bond, in- the handwriting "
of the complainant, for $5000.
It is in Proo*f, also, that when the deed was delivered, there
were'unadjusted accounts- growing out of Nixon's and, Biddle'sagency.for the property. That noaccount bad been-furnished
to the complainant since 181.6, except an abstract of one "Innes's
account of the excavation and sales of stone and gravel, sent-to
him by the. defendant, Henry J. Williams, in May, .1819.
The recital-in the deed shows that the accounts were unascertained, for it. speaks of the $20,000 vyhich was first paid'by
Williams and Morris on their purchase as being. nearly-reimbursed, and that there remained due on the purchase about
$29,000.
Two yeasbefore the deed was executed, the complainant inade
an agreement with David Valker and. Henry Morris, to convey
to them in. trust for his sister, Maria Nixon, a fourth part of 'her
moiety, upon the terms stated in the agreement; ini pursuance of
his original intention when Williams and himself made the purchase..

126

SUPREME COURT.
Morris v. Exec. of N ixon et "ai'

It was urged in the argument, that the recitals in the deed re- •
lating to the sum then due -upon the purchase of Mo rris and
Williams, that of Nixon's interest in it, and the debt claimed by
Nixon to be due to him on account of his agency, *ere incorrect.
We shall not, however, consider these objections, cr those which'
were made against the validity of the 'deed on account of inadequacy-of price, undue-influence, and surprise.
Our object ig to dispose of this case for the present, by assigning
to the deed its true character in equity, under all the circumstances
.attending its execution.
The charge against Nixon is, substantially, a fraudulent attempt
to convert that into an absolute sale which was originally.meant,
by himself and the complainant, to be a security for a loan. It
is in this.view.of the case that the evidence is admitted to ascertain the truth of the transaction; tho igh the.deed be absolute on
its face. The transaction was begu. by Morris, with the request
of a loan from Nixon, for which he bffered a security upon the
.property, for the management of which, Nixon was his agent.'
It ended by Mdrris. giving to Nixon a deed for the property, absolute on its face, and also a bond for a loan of.$5000. Unless,
then,.some proof has been given to show that they truly baigained
upon another footing, and that the loan did not form the chief in-ducement for the execution of the deed, and had not.been treated
by both parties as a substantial part of the consideration, though
not expressed in the recital, equity will interpret'it to be a security
for money loaned.
Is there any such probf in this case? None that 'wecan see,
even if the defendants are allowed to use as evidence, as they
cQntend they have a right to-do, the answer of their co-defendant;
-Henry Morris. His ac 0unt of the transaction is, that in an inter-view with Nixon.succeeding that when he made the .alplication
f or a loan,-and when Nixon declined lending, stating that his own
embarrassments re'quired all the funds he could command; that
Nixon said,it was very doubtful if the "Hills -property" would
more-.than pay.the claims upon it, and h'e could not consent to
make. the loan, unless Morris .would convey the.property to him;
and he added, if the property should eventually turn out ivell, he
would account to-Thomas Morris for it, and share it.with him.
And in the 'hird interview Nixon told him that his counsel had

SANUARY TERM, 184$.
Morris, v. Exe

127.

of Nixon et aL

advised him upon no account to let the complainant have the
money, unless an absolute and bonafde coiveyance of the:wholepremises was made; that, upon receiving his answer, he returned
to New York, and communricated the determination of Nixon to
his brother; and that, upon his return to Philadelphia, lie was
obliged to delivef the deed without any promises of trust, as hefound Nixon resolved to do nothing in the business,.unless the
conveyance was absolute and bona fide. He says, however, he
was satisfied in his own mind 'that, if the property turned out
well, Nixon would give a bandsome share of it to the bomplainant; and that, in consequence of this impression, he always wrote
to him as if he was still interested in the successful result of the
purchase. We are in no way, though, influenced by. the answer
bf Henry Morris in coming to our conclusiorr as to the character
of the aeed. .It has been introduced because it was stiongly
urged to be good evidence in behalf of the defendants, by their
counsel; and with the view 6f showing, even though the facts
stated had been prov.ed, that they would not take the case out
of the principle--that a deed absolute on the face of i#, for property, offered to secure a loan in a case in which the parties originally met upon the footing of borrowing and lending, will be
considered a deed in the nature of a mortgage, to secure a l 6 an,
thoifgh another consideration shall be in the recital of the deed than
the lb-an, unless it. sha.ll be proved tbat the parties afterwards bargaiied for the property independently of the loan;, or if it shall
appear that the chief inducement of the grantor in making the
deed, was to procure the loan; or that the grantee, after the execution .of the conveyance.treated the moiney which he had advanced as a substantidl part of the consideration, and not as a
loan. There is no proof in this ease that the parties bargained
without a reference to an advance by Nixon of- $5ooo0, and it
does appear that Morris was only induced to make the deed from
the offer. of Nixon to make the. advance of that sum, and that
Nixon treated it substantially as a part of the consideration to be
given for the propeity, as he took a bond from Morris for the
amount, and says it was only to becontingently enforced, for the
benefit of Morris 6r his'family, in the event of Morris falling into

misfortune.
Courts of equity Will not permit so uncertain a benefit as 'is

128

SUPREME COURT.
Morris v. Ey-ec. of Nixon, et aL.

here expressed, to weigh at all in'their consideration of cases like
this; for, if they did, it might become a contrivance to give plausible colouring to an originallk meditated-fraud, or to one induced
by the temptation of subsequent. gain.
But besides the transaction itself, as it appears in the pleadings, there were relations of interest and of agency, between
Thomas Morris and Henry Nixon, iri respect to the property;
and such as .grew out of the embayrassments of the former, and
also
a
put of his particular condition to the iecitals of consideration in the deed, which combine to raise a violent presumption,
of a .ecret trust, and that the deed was meant to secure Nixon's
advances, loans, and endorsements for Morris.
Nixon claimed an interest in the property, besides the one-fourth
of the moiety which Morris had agreed to convey to Walker
and Henry Morris, in trust for Mrs. Nixon; For the former,
lixon had not such satisfactory evidence as he could rely upon.
This appears from his correspondence. Morris was much embarrassed; no onr knew his pecuniary difficulties better than
Nixon did. He remembered, too, that Morris, without consulting
him, had offered to -mortgage the property to the United States,
He feared, from the: disclosureg made by'Henry Morris of the
pressing neces§ity of-his brother,'that he might mortgage the
property to raise the sum he then stood iri need of, to some other
person if Nixon did not advance it; so that, at some other time,
urged by want of money or the demands of creditors, he might
.be induced to convey to others an interest in the concern. That
new parties might interfere with. the management -of it, to the
injury of all who were -originally interesied; that the bank, by
any change ih the ownership, and the course which might be
pursued in respect to the property, might notcontinue to be-so
indulgent as it had been, in-postponing the payment of the p1drchase-money still due. Besides, sales of this property to individuals and purchases from the city were then anticipated! the
latter a slow, but sure- speculation; almost at the price of the
owners, from the contiguity of public works, which could not
be abandoned; nor could they be carried on without more of the
property than the city had already bought. Add, the embarrassed
condition of Morris; the connexion and close intimacy between
the parties; their excited expectations, extended'by exaggerated

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

129

Morris v. Exec. of Nixon et al.

representations to the females of the. family, that all concerned
would realize great pecuniary advantages from the property;
the certain interest, also, of Mrs. Nixon in it, and the.certainty,
that, by keeping it under their own conirol, it would be managed
in their own way.; all these considerations were cogent inducements with Nixon to get a legal title from Morris, and the moment
when Henry Morris presented himself to solicit a loan for his biother was the occasion upon which it could certainly be obtained.
But further, Morris's, condition, in respect to the consideration
recited in the deed, was not such as to induce him to wish. to
part with the property. Nor does Nixon's assumption of the.
particular debts of .Morris, recited in it, bear the aspect of a
genuine purchase. It was not a present payment of. any thing;
a"d, if genuine, was the purchase of Morris's speculation, by an
advance of $5000, which, according to the face of the transaction,
was to be repaid. And may we not say, when'in the same
transaction we have it admitted that one of the documents was
not meant by the parties to be what. it purports, that another of
them by this fact is subjected to suspicion ?
But we have said, though Morris was embarrassed, that he
was not pressed by any of the particulars recited in the deed as a
consideration.,
The purchase-money remaining due to the bank on the property, the .bank had permitted to remain unpaid, finding no
doubt its advantage in the interest. Both principal and interest
were ultimately paid, not by Nixory, but, by sales of the property.
The debt due to Biddle .and Wharton was secured by a mortgage upon-a part of the propertyj given by Morris with Nixon's
consent.. The notes discounted at the bank for the accommodation of Morris with Nixon's endorsement, had been renewed, arid
were running as an acconimodation, to be renewed again and
again, as they Were.,in fact, without any change of names to the
paper, after the deed was executed. Nixon could not press for
the commissions claimed as agent of the property, or did not
intend to do so; for we find him writing to Morris on the 21st
May, two days before Henry Morris arrived in Philadelphia on
his errand for-the loan, and seven before the deed was executed,
to make himself easy as to commissions, as it had not been his'
intention to ask for them; or acknowledging he had no right to
VOL. 1.-17

130

SUPREME COURT.
Morris v. Exec. of -Nixon et al.

do so, until "the final closing of the accounts, agreeably to the
first agreement when the Hills were bought."
Such was.the situation of Morris, in respect to the debts namedin the deed as the consideration for which an absolute title was
to pass. He was an embarrassed man, and hard pressed at that
moment for $5000, and though destructive consequences were to
assail, him if -he could not get it, is it likely that Nixon then
could have been insensible to the ties which had united them,
and could have -made his distress the, means of coercing from
him an absolute coriveyance, without a secret trust of all that he
had left, upon. which he could rest a hope to raise himself a
little above his ruined fortune? We cannot think so. If we
did,'it would be our duty to give another aspect to this transaction, from which the defendants would derive no benefit.
If a doubt remained upon our minds in respect to the charac-ter which should be given to the deed, the letter from Nixon to
Morris, of the 24th May, would remove it.
It may be consideredi either as having been intended by the
writer to put Morris at ease in respect to the conveyance and
bdnd which were required, or as a letter calculated to mislead
Morris in:respect to the use which Nixon would*make of the
conveyance. The letter might be, either the artifice of the writer
to accomplish aft unjust intent, or the language of the letter and
manner of using -it might innocently mislead. In either event,
if the letter is such- as is.likely to mislead, aid from which it can
be fairly implisd, that it indiuced a confidence that the receiver
of it would have any benefit from or interest in the property, he
was required to convey contrary to the terms of the deed, it
would be fatal to it as an absolute deed.
Nixon and Morris were brothers-in-law. There seems to have
been between them fraternal intimacy and confidence. It appears to have been unlimited in all the relations of social life and
of business. The confidence of Morris was unwavering, and
-dependent, from the superior. business ability of Nixon. Nor
can it be denied that it was met by him in Morris's difficulties by
acts of timely assistance and .kindness. Nixon had been his agent
in the management of the property from 1812. He claimed an
equitable interest in .it, besides the proportion of Mrs. N~ixon..
There, were unasrtained accounts of Nixon's agency when the

JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

131

Morr's v. Exec. of Nixon et al.

deed was made. Morris had received no account since. 1816,
except an abstract of sales of some stone and gravel, furnished
to him by one of the defendants in 1819. He did hot know par,
ticularly whathad been the proceeds of the sales and income of
the property,.or'liow they had bden applied. No examination or.
,estimate of the -*alue of -the residue bf the property, as it then
stood, was made. No communication had been given by the.
agent of the effect of public and private improvements-.upon it,
in respeet. to its then, or prospective value. -Nothing was said
between Morris and Nixon as to the price that the taker'was to
give." In. this situation, being greatly embarrassed, Morris asked
a loan from. his agent. The agent says, 4I am%aware of your
embarrassment. There are certain claims upon -this property
which you will have to pay, and other respons bilities of yours
foi which-I am also answerable. -I will provide the money of
which you stand in nebd, Will take a bond from, you for it, which
I am not to enforce against you, unless you should fall into misfortune, and. then only, should I see fit to do so, for the benefit of
yourself- or your family, if you will give me an -absolute conveyance of the property? The 'conveyance is given, the bond is
taken; and now it is gaid the. transaction was intended to be an
absolute sale,.4bd not a.security for, a loan. We do not think
that the connexion between the- bond and- the deed can.be dismembered. "Nox can. we- reconcile it with what W'e believe
would, have been the ordinary conduct of men in. like circumstances, to suppose, that an agent so situated to a principal and
*friend in distress, ,could have intended, by asking for an absolute
conveyance, to use it ior any other purpose than to secure himself in the sum he was about to advahce and his other responsi:
bilities for his principal. Morris was al ruined man. Nixn.
knew it, and treated with him in this instance as if the crisis had
come when creditors would no longer be'satisfied with postponed
promises. It was natural for Nixon, nor was it 'wrong -in -the
then state of real property, and .as. he was about to advance to
his brother-in-law $5o00, to take the most efficient way to secure
himself from lQss, and to put it out of the power of Morris to
intertere wvith his security, by subsequeritly giving to others an
interest in the property. We find upor a 'preceding occasion'
when Morris was pressed,'and had offered to mortgage this pro-

-

132

SUPREME COURT.
MWrrig v. Exec. of Nixon et aL

"perty,that Nixon suggested that it should be put ihto his hands,
with the trust.expressed of what was intended. His object then
was, that the original intention of the purchase might be darried
out for the benefit of all.concerned. Nixon's inducement to do
so was greater than it had been at that time. Mrs. Nixon's
interest of one-fourth in the moiety of the property had been in
in the mean time secured to her by her brother.
We will now turn to the letter of the"24th May from .Nixon to
Morris, to confirm the view we have of this transaction. It
begins,
"DEAR MoR~is,-Henry arrived here early yesterday morning.
Having had a conversation with him on the subject of. a loan, I
have only to say, my best exertions will be to obtain this object,
and to enable me to do which, Henry will iimediately call upon
you to advise you of the.only mode that he or I cad suggest to
-achieve it."
It-must be remembered that the letter was written on the day
that.Nixon-consulted his counsel, after the consultation had been
had. The answer of Nixon shows this. He says, that he had
concluded to provide the money, but that he must conisult counsel
before he finally agreed. And then that- ie thereupon returned
to Henry Morris, and informed him of the determination he had
come to of dealing upon no other terms than an absolute sale ind
conveyance, and taking a bond for the-loan. When, then,.Nixon
says in the letter, "Henry will immediately call upon you to advise
you of the. only mode that he or I can'suggest to achieve it," it is
mahifest that the mode had been a subject of conversation between them; and as he mentions in the letter, the loan in connexion wifh the mode, which Henry was to communicate to his
brother, this contemporary letter must be called on to ascertain
what Nixon intended by the mode; 'and more especially so, as it
seems the contents of the letter had not been'told to Henry
Morris.
The mode was an absolute conveyance of the property 'and a
bond. " But there is, in connection with the mode, the declaration
of an intention, coupled with an ability, in consequence of the
mode*, to achieve a loan. It would then be a very strained inference, from the words of the letter, to say, that Nixon did not
meah that Morris, to 'whom he was writing, should understand"

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

133

Morris v. Exec. of Nixon et al.

that he meant a loan, to be secured by a conveyance of the property, as wetl as by a bond; or that he meant, that the loan
which he could achieve by the mode was 'to depend upon
Morris making to him an absolute sale of the property for the
considerations expressed in the deed.' If such had been his
meaning, it could have been plainly said. But we think thr
can be no doubt concerning what the writer of this letter meant,
or. the construction which, in a court of equity, should be put
upon it, when we find him saying: "You, I am sure4 will -have
confidence in me as to the mode- proposed, which Henry--will
communicate; and be assured my sincere prayers will be and
best exertions to promote this all-important point." This language
indicates a sincere desire in Nixon at that time to relieve the distress of his brother-in-law. That'he intended to solicit his confidence as to the mode proposed, to secure himself from loss, without depriving'Morris of a participation in the prospective advan-.
tages which they had mutually indulged for ten years in respect.
to the property, and which, it cannot be denied, had in a great
degree been excited by. the representations of Nixon. In
Morris's situation it was a great- point gained for the benefit
of all concerned in tle property, that the legal control of it shouldbe taken from. him and vested in Nixon.
This lette we think a part of the entire transaction, and stamps
its character in a court of equity. It could only have been
intended to put Morris at ease in respect tothe absolute conveyance which Nixon required ; or it was designed mislead and
deceive Morris, by expressions of sympathy which were not
felt, and a solicitation of confidence not deserved. -If the latter,•
we should feel bound to pronounce the transaction a meditated.
fraud, successfully accomplished. We adopt -the first as most
probable, and in that view of the case decree the conveyance of
the 24th May, 1822, lo be a deed, with, a secret'trust, for the
securityof moneys loaned:and.advanced by Nixon to the grantor.
This coclusion makes it unnecessary, for us to consider the effect
of time upon the-rights in controversy.
We order the decree of the Circuit- Court to be reversed, andthat .the cause be remanded, with instructions to the court to
have an account taken, and that the complainant be aillowed -his.
M

.134

I SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. Beverly et al.

proportion at the rate.of an interest of five-eighths in a moiety of
the original purchase of Morris and Williams, and that the court
shall take such other "proceedings in, the cause as equity may
require.
ORDER.

.This cause came on to be heard on-the.transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district
of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel., On- consideration
whereof, ,it is now here considred, ordered, aid decreed by this
court, that. the decree of the said. Circuit Court in this cause be
and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause
be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with ingtructions to that court to have an account taken; and
that the complainant be allowed -his proportion at the rate of an
interest of five-eighths in a moiety of the original purchase of'
Morris and Williams, and that the said court shall take such
other:proceedings in the cause as equity may require.

THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE BA
or mz
'UNITED STATES, AND THE UNITED STATES, V. JiAxEs B. BEVERLY
AND JANE HIS WIFE,*,WILLIAM RAMSAY AND ELIZABETh HIS WIFE,
HAMILTON AND JAYE s PETrER, HEIRS OF DAVID PETER, DECEASED,
AND GRORGE PETER, SURVIVING EXECUTOR- OF DAviD ,P.TER
DECEASED.
The case in 10 Peters, 562, reviewed.and confirmed.
A fact tried aid decided by a court of competent jurisdiction canxiot.be. cputested again between ihe same parties; arid' there is no difference in this
respect between ;L verdict and judgment-at common law and a decree of a
court of equity.
But an answer in Cbaxcery setting up, as a defence, the dismission of a former,
bill filed b'ythe same complainants,'is not sufficient unless the rbeord be
exhibited.

A disposition by a testator of his personal property to purposes other thau .the
paynent of his debts, with the assent of creditors, is in ilself a charge on the
real estate, subjecting it to the payment of the debts of the estate, although no
suuch charge is createdby the words bf the will.

