JANUARY TERM, 184.

IsAAc

S.

BOWmAN AND. GEORGE W.

S.

BowMAN, !

BRrNi.R ANV

MARY, HIS V.IFZj FORmERLY MARY BOWMAN, AND REBECCA BoW-

MAN, BY SAID, ISAAC S. AND GEORGE
,FRIEND,

THE

SAID

MXRY

-W. S.

AND.'REBECA

BowMi-, THEIR NEXT.
BEII4G

INFANTS' UNDifR

TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF.AiGE, AND ALBERT T. BUwLEY, APPELLANTS;

".*.ATHANASIUS-'WATHEN, AND THE MAYOR AN)). COMMON COUNCIL'.
OF THE CITy OF J FFERSON ILLE.

The doctrine laid down by Lord Camden, in the case of Srmith v. Clay, 3 Biown's..
Ch. Rep. in note,-.exanined and confirmed,vii., "'That'a cour of iquity,
-which iever is active in.relief against conscience or public convenience
has alway. refused its aid to stale demands, *here -te party has slept updo
his rights for 4. grbat length of time. Nothing can call forth this court into
activity but conscience, good faith, and .reasonable diligence.-. Wher these
are wanti.ig, the court is. passive and dtes nothing; liches and ileglect are
alway's disconuntenanced; and therefore; from-the beginning of.this jurisdlcttion, there-was alwayg a limiMtion of suit i-thiszcour".
Also the doctriie laid down by Lord Redesdale, in Hovtnden v. Lord Annesley,
2 Sch.°and LefL636, "that every'new right of a.tion, in equity, that aceues
to a party, whatever it may be,.must be acted upon at-thp utmostwitliixitwenty years."
And though the claimant may have been-embarrassed by the fraudsof, others,
or distreised, it-is not sufficient to take the case o'ut of.he rule.
The doctrine has also been ruled by this court, and shduld now-be regarded as
the settled law.
In this case, the complainants- have -so long slept upon -tkeil rights that this
court must remain'passive, and can do nothifig; and ths is equally true,..
- whether they knew bf an adverse -possession, *orthrough negligence and a.
failure to look after their interests, permitted .the title of another to grow into
full maturity.
THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the *United.
-States for the district of Indiana, sitting as a court of .equityThe facts are fully stated. in the opinion of the court, and also
the kuthoritiep referred to in the argument. It is unnecessary to
"repqateither.'
Crittenden and. Test, for the appellants.
Berrien and Legar , attorney-general,- for the appellees.
-

'Mr. Justice DANIEL deliered the opinion of the couirt.
This is an -appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the.
United States-for the seventh circhit and.district of Indiana. The
coinplaiii.ants in the Circuit- Court, the appellants here, filed their

190

SUPREME COURT.
Bowman et al. .v. Wathen ft al.

bill in the year 1840. It is alleged and shown, that with the exception of ,Albert T,Burnley, who is a citizen of Kentuckj, the
complainants are citizens of Virginia, and heirs and devisees of
Isaac Bowman, deceased, who was an officer in 'the Virginia regiment, known as- the Illinois regiment. That in the division
and allotment of the lands appropriated by the state of Virginia
for 'compensating the officers an&soldiers of this regiment, a tract
of land of five hundred acres on, the Ohio river; within the
county of Clarke, in the then territory and now state of Indiana,
was, in 1786, allotted and conveyed to said Isaac Bowman, for
his services in the regiment aboye mentioned. "That Bowman,
being seised in fee of' this land, .afterwards, in March, 1802, by
a power of:'attorney under. his hand and seal, constituted one
JIohn Gwathney, his attorney in fact, with full authority to lay off
a town on the same, beginning at the lower paxt thereof on the
river, and to contain one.hundred and fifty acres of land. That
by this instrument Gwathne'y was authorized to lay off the town
in any marner he might prefer; to convey the title to the land
forming the site thereof to proper .tiustees; to sell the lots on
whatever credit he might think proper, and to do every other act
which might be necessary for carrying into effect the powers with
which the said agent was vested: 'That Gwathniey proceeded to
lay off the one hundred and fifty acres of land, to divide them
into lots and streets for a town to be called Jeffersonville; reserving two acres for a public square, .and certain lots for the benefit
of-his .pricipal; designating also a portion of land on the margin of the river as a-common. That he likewise caused a'map
or plan of the town 'to be made and recorded. This plan is made
an exhibit in the cause. That, having laid off the town, Gwath-ney,on the 23d of June, 1802, by indenture,'and for the consideration of five shillings therein. expressed, conveyed to Marston
G. Clarke and others, as ,trustees of Jeffersonville,'the one hundred and fifty acres of land in conformity with the plan adopted;
reserving to himself, as attorney.for.Bowman, the exclusive right
of applying the money to arise from sales of the lots; .the -right
also to have and use for and on behalf of Bowman, ' whatever
right be mpa now hold'as 'proprietor, to'tle establishment of oln
or moie ferries." .Itdoes not appear that Bowman was ever on,
the land after its allo.tmen to him; he continued to reside ipVir-

JANUARY- TERM,.1843.19
Bownan et al' v, Wathen-et aL'

ginia, where he died in the y.ehr 1826, having previouslY-made
and published'his last will, whereby he devised,- among, other
property, the.'fer y-right mentioned in the deed~rom.Gwath ey to
the trilstees of the town ofJeffersonville.: That the dvisees.of
o. wmin,to whom were assigned his land.s in Indiana and Kentuc *'on the llth of May, 1839,.by deed,'lnd for the coniideati6n therein expressed of 020,000, conveyed these lands; together
wfththe.ferry-rights above mentioned totheeoinplaifiant, Burn.ley, and have united with him'in the institution, f -this suit.
As early as -the 12th of -October, 1802, little mori than three
months- after. the conveyance from .Gwathney"to the trustees7of.
Jeffersonville, a license was.granted by theterritQrial-governmeht
of Indiana t6 Marstofi G. Clarke, one of the persoiis named as
trustees of the town, to keep a.ferry. across the O.hio river from •
,the town above "mehtioned.. On the 2d day f July, 1807, a
similar license was granted by the'same go' 'r.nment to one Joseph. Bowman. In -the month of December, 1822, one George
White, having previously purchased the ihterest-of Clarke, and of
others claiming under"Clarke, the legislature.of the state of Inaiana passed an act confirming to him the right to. keep a ferry from
Jeffersonville to the opposite shore of the Ohio.
These acts of the territorial and state governments were public
and notorious; were parts of the recorded history of the country;
the rights thiy purported to convey were .such as could not be
secretly enjoyed, and they appeaf, to have been uninterruptedly
exercised by the grantees. The thiee-sdveral ferries granted ha e
been united, and have been transferred -by:purchase to the, defendant, Wathen, conjointly with others, who are non-residents of the
state of Indiana; .and these purchasers, deriving title from the ori•ginal granteeq, have, from the" commencement of their interest,
exercised an owfiership separately from, and independently of,
either Bowman or the complainants, and exempt from. any assertion of title by any.of them, until 'the institution of this suit; shol:ing an use and enjoyment of this ferry, for. the space of thirtyeight yearsfrom the date of the grant to Clarke, and of twenty
years fror! the confirmation by the legislature of the license to
White..
The complainants, alleging that the Mayor and Comnmon Couincil of Jeffersonvilleas successors of the original trustees of the

SUPREME COURT.
Bowman et al. v. Wathen et al.

town of Jeffersonville, hold- the equitable estate in the ferry for
the benefit of the heirs and devisees of Bowman, made the corporation joint defendants with Wathen to their bill; and prayed
that the latter. might be enjoined from using the ferry; that he
might render an account of the profits thireof, and that, general
relief might be decreed them.
The answer of the defendant, Wathen, repels the claim of the
complainants to the ferry, as having any foundation on the alleged
ieservation in the deed from Gwathney, or on any exception out
of the estate passed to the grantees by that deed; relies upon the
validity pf the grantsmade by the territorial and state governments; upon the long and uninterrupted "use and enjoyment of
the ferry under those grants, andupon the position of the defend.ants as a purchaser -without notice.
The corporation of Jeffersonville .deny that they were created
a-corporation by the deed from Gwathney, or that they are the
successors of the trustees appointed by that deed; and they claim
their corporate character and powers from the authority of the
lregislature alone;. they deny any riparian or ferry privileges- as
-belonging to the complainants in virtue of the deed from Gwathrey, and disclaim any part in the controversy between the com-plainants and Wathen.
Upon the hearing, ihe Circuit Court dismissed the bill with
:costs.

In the examination of this cause by the Circuit Court, and in
its discussion here, an extensive-range of inquiry has been opened,
embracing questions upon the operation of that clause in the.deed
-from Gwathney to The trustees of 'Jeffersonville, which relates to
'the ferry-rights claimed, as forming either a reshvation or an exception according to the, principles of the common law, and as
affected, therefore, by the presence or absence of words of perpetuity: also upon the connection of these rights with, and their dependence upon, riparian ownership, and -upon the necessity for
their separation from the sovereign or eminerit domain, to permit
of their exercise by private persons. These" are topids, however,
which this court regard as beside-the real. merits of .the present
controversy, or as. superseded'by the true principles upon which
it ought to be settled. The ieal qiiestion involved touches neither
the definition- of ferry privileges nor the modes of their enjoy-

193

JANUARY TERM, 1843.
Bowman et al. v. Wathen et al

ment; but relates exclusively to the propriety of-interfering, at
the instance of the complainants below, with-those rights as they
now are and have been enjoyed by the defendants, and of trans-.
ferring such rights And"enjoyment to the complainants themselves.
The complainants are invoking the aid of a court of equity: if
they have-perfet rights,.proper for the cognisance of a different
fofurui, they can have no standing here; if, on the contrary, thley
require the interpositionof this court, they muststand or fall .upon
-the settled principles 'which govern its action. The frequency
and explicitness with which those principles have'been announced'.
by this and other tribinals, would seem to dispense with -any
necessity for their repetition, and to impart somewhat the'appearance of triteness to their recapitulation. They have .been
imbodied by Lord Camden, with a succinctness, and at Ahe s me.
-time with a comprehensiveness, compressing within a' fe sentences almost a system of equity jurisprudence, when he declared,
in Smith v. Clay, 3 Brown's Chancery Reports, in note, "that a
court. of equity, .which never is.active in relief against conscience
or public convenience, has always refused its aid to stale demands,
where the party has'slept upon his rights for a great length -of
time.' Nothing can call forth this court into activi'ty but cor1
science,-good, faith, and reasonable diligence. Where.these are
wapting, the court is passive and does nothing; laches and negbeginlec are always discountenanced, and, therefore, from
suit
in-.
of
limitation
a
was
always
there
ning of this jurisdiction,
v.
Lord.
flovenden
to,
referred
often
very
In
a
case
this court."'
Annesley, 2 Sch. and Lef., Lord Redesdale (page 636) lays it
down as what he calls the common law of courts bf equity, "that
every new right of action in equity that accrues to a party, whatbever it may bo must be acted upzorr, at the ptmost, within twenty
Hercy v. Dinwoody, 4 ,Bro. Ch. Rep. 257, was a case
years."
wherein the statute of limitations bould not directly'apply, for
there had. been a decree for an account that had not been proceeded in with effect; it was-a case, therefore, in .which' the
court-prbceeded according to its discretion, and not by any analogy with the statute of limitations; Lord Alvanley, in'deciding this
case, puts it upon the ground of public policy, and would -not
permit the account to be carried'on, because the party who would.--6tberwise have been entitled to it, -had been guilty of such -laches
R
VoL.L-25
-

-the

-

194

SUPREME COURT.
Boyman- .et al. v. Wathen et al.

as-to render it impossible to settle the account accurately. - In the'
case 'already mentioned of Hovenden v. Lord _Annesley, Lord
Redesdale strikingly illustrates the force and inflexibility of-the.
principle on which he had been insisting, .when he adverts to
and disallows the circumstandes.adduced and relied on to inodify,
the operation of:that principle. After declaring that lapse of
'time, independently of the statute, would conclude the party in
default, he proceeds to remark, that "it never can be a sound
discretion in the court to give relief to'a person who. has slept
upon his rights for such a lapse of time; 'for though it is said, aid
truly, that the plaintiffs in this ult and. tho'se under whom they
claim were persons embarrassed by the frauds of' others,.yet the
court cannot act upon such circumstances. If it 'did, there would
be an end of all limitation. of actions in tbe' cases of distressed
persons for if relief might be given, after twenty years on the
ground of'distr6ss,so might it after thirty, forty, or fifty; there
would be no limitation whatever, and property would be thrown
"ini6---confusion." So' Sir William Grant, in the case of Beckford
anf others~v. Wade,' 17 Vs. 87, declares that "courts of equity by.
their own rules, independently of any statutes of limitation, give
great-effect. to' length of-time, and they refer frequently'to the
statutes of limitation, for no other purpose than as furnishing a
convenient measure for the length of time that. ought to operate.
as a bar in equity of afiy particular demand:"
This doctrine of an equitable bar by lapse of time, so 'distinctly
announced by, the chancellors Pf England and Ireland, has been
ruled with equal force bythis tribuial in the cases of Prei~ost V.
Gratz, 6-Wheat. 481 ' of'Hughes v. Edwards, 9 Wheat, 489 - of:
Miller's. -heir. v. McIntyre, 6 'Peters, 61.; and* of piatt v. Vattier
et al, 9 Peters, 405 -..It should now be regarded as settled. law in
this court.'
Can the pretensions of these complainants bear examination
by the standaid'which this rule. ordains? The town of Jeffersonville was established, by the. agent of the original proprietor
of the site on which it stands, in June, 1802. The.first ferry was
granted by the .terrftorial government in October, 180 ;.-a period
almost coeval with the creatio-a of the town itself. -This granit
(like every 6ther for a:similar purpose mentioned'in the record)
was made in no union or-connection of intereSts with the -original

JANUARY

TERM, 184.

195

Bowman 'et 'al. v. Wathen et aL

pfoprietor of the lands, but in a wholly separate and distinct
interest. It is proved that" the agent,of the original proprietor
'resided in the immediate neighbourhood. "He may be presumed,
from -his agency ri laying off and selling the lots, to have been
familiar with the localities of the' place and .with the interests
-and pursuits'of the occupants. He is shown to have had knowledge of the existence of a ferry at the place, afid- to have availed'
himself of its accommodation like other passengers. The use
of this separate and independent ferry-right has existed from the
first grant to the- institution of this suit, for a period of thirtyeight years, withou't an "_ntimation, during this interval, of a right
in the complainants or in 'those from whom they deduce title.
Throughout all this-timqe, the holders of' .this ferry, with a feeling
of .security. which circumstances were well calculated to .inspire,
have bestowed their care and their means upon an enterprise to
which they were prompted, no doubt, by considerations of profit,
but one not the less useful or laudable., nor less entitled to protec'tion for that reason: an'iindertaking highly.promotive of public.
advantage. Can these defendants, under circumstances such as
are here enumerated, and consistently with the principles of this
court, be now arrested in this enterprise? and this at the instance
of persons who 'may in, some sense be regarded as having
prompted them to it, if no;. by express invitation or by the connivanoe of their agent, yet 'by their own lo'ng abandonment of
whatever-interest in the subject they may once have possessed?.
Such a proceeding would'not accord with the maxims of a court
"which is never active to give relief against conscience or public.
cbnvenience," or "ct6 a party who has 'slept upon his- rights;" a,court which "nothing can call forth into activity b5it conscience,
good faith, and 'reasonable diligence.'
In this instance the complainants have slept, long slept upon their rights; by their want
6f reasonable diligence, others have been induced to embark in an
undertak'ig -against'which these complainants had power to warn
them; with respe'ct to.these parties, therefore, 'this court must
remain passive, and can do nothing.
It was insisted in the argumetit for the complainants, that Bowiiian, the ancestor, having 'remained in Virginia until-his death in.
1826, never had kriowledge of an intrusiorr upon his ferry-rights;'
and that without such knowledge, no presumption on the scote
'

196

SUPREME COURT.
-

Bowman et aL v. Wathen et. al.

either of neglect or acquiescence could be allowed against him.
In the first place, with regard to the fact of ignoxance here.
assumed, this cannot be admitted; because it is proved that
Gwathney, the agent, resided in the immediate neighbourhood:
tllat *from his agency in laying off and 'selling the lot6, he was
necessarily connected with the affairs of the town; and it is
shown, beyond. question, thaf fie. had knowledge of the existence
of the ferry, and had actually used it at an-early- period after its
establishment, though, the precise time when, is not ascertained.
Let it.be conceded, however, that Bowman. and his family 'omitted to inform themselves 6T the right set up to this ferry by others;,
it is not perceived how such a concession would strengthen -the
claim of the complainants, or impair the title'of the defendant; as
accruing from lapse of time. The defendant, or his grantors, did
-not enter under Bowman; nor. n subordination to any title of
his; they have always claimed under grants from a wholly different authority, and adversely to Bowman and to every one
else. If Bowman, by negligence; or bya failure to look after and
protect his own interests,,permit the title of another to grow into
full maturity, he thereby recognises the force of the principle of
the bar by lapse of time; which creates a title as complete in
equity as would be imparted by n*express conveyance. This
conclusion follows by regular deduction from all the authorities
upon this doctrine 'of lapse of tim.e, and is established by the
express language of this court in the case'of Boon v. Chiles,
10 'Peters, 23, where, in speaking of one whose acts may make
him a trustee by implication, it holds this language: "His possession enables him to have at least.the same protection as th*at
of a direct trustee, who, to the plaintiff's knowledge, disavows
the trust, and holds adversely ; -as to whomi the time runs from
the disavowal; because his possession from ihenceforth'is. adverse.: The potsession of the land is notice of a claim to it by
the possessor, (Sugd. Vend. 753,) if not -held by a contract or
purchase ; it is from 'its inception adverse to all the world, and in
twenty years bars- the owner in law and in eqhity." In conformity'with this doctrine is the decision ip Buchannon and others
v. Upshaw, made during the present term of this court.
We 'consider the pretensions of the complainants below, the.
appellants here, to be. upon every correct view, within the opera

JANUARY 'TERM, 1 I3.

197

Ellis et al v. A am. of Taylor.

tion of the equitable bar, by laipse of time: we hold, therefore,.
that the Circuit Court.propexly dismissed their bill, and we actordingly, affirm the decree of that court.
ORPER.-

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of' the United States for the district of
Indiana, and was, argued by counsel. .'Onconsideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and-decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said Circuit Court inthis cause-be and the.same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

THoMAs E.

ELLIS, JONATHAN M.

H'ILL) DANIEL ROPER' AND

* BETHEA, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THOMAS

OF MONTR&viLE

D.

TAYxos't

T. B.

JqNES, ADMINISTRATOR

DECEASED-.

The law of the state of Alabama,-passea in lS:l, c. 26, s. 5, which autho 1" 6
securities to require of the dreditor forthwith to put the bond, &c.in suit,
agaifst the principal, and absolves, the security unless the creditor commences suit aniduses due diligence to.'collect the.debt. from ,thQ principal,
dods noi include a case where the parties (principal and security) unite in a
joint and several sealed bill.,

THxs .case was brought ulrby-writ of error'from the Circuit
Court of the Uifited- States for the. southern district of Alabama.
Ot 'the 16th'of January, 1837, the plaintiffs in error executed
thd following bill.
"~~O
Wileox Ox
C , lla., JanuaY, 16, 1837
Twe ie. months-after di-te, we of either of us promise to pay
Montraville D Tdylor, or bearer; the sum of fiv thousdnd dollars, value received 'of him, ds witness our hands and seals.
THOMAS E. ELLIS,
[L. S.]
[L. S.]
M..HILL,
JONATHAN
[L. s.]
'A Ropnrt,
T. B. BETHEA,

[L. S.]

At"some time'after the date and 'delivery of the above bill,
Taylor, the'. obligee., died intestate, and Thomas Jones, a -citizen
of the state, of North Carolina, became his administrator.
R,2.

