JANUARY TERM, Ika.

-%91

In re Castleman.

sive and complicited legisation; of this subject, Congress has. general jurisdiction; and the true inguiry is-To what limits is that jurisdiction restrictidi.
I hold, it extends to all cases where the law causes to be distribut~d, the' property of the debtor among his creditors:' this is its leas't limit. Its.greatest, is
a discharge of the debtor from his contradts. And all intermediate legislation,
affecting substance and form,-but tending to further thegreat end of the subject
*--distribution and discharge-are in the competency and discretion of Congress.
With the policy of a lkw, letting in all classes, others-as-:well as traders; and
permitting the bankrupt to come in voluntarily, and be discharged'without the
consent of his creditors, the courts have no 'concern, it belongs -to the law-.
makers.
I have spoken of ttate bankrupt laws. I.deemevery state law, a bankrupt
law, in substance and fact, that causes.to be distributed'by a-tribunal, the'pro-,
perty of a debtor-among his creditors; and. it is especially such,-ifitcases
the'debtor tobe discharged from his contracts, within the limits .prescribed by
the case of Ogden v. Saunders. Such a law-may be denomitia.ted an -irsdlvent
law; still it deals directly with the subject of bankrptcies, and is-a bankrupt
law, in the sense of the Constitution;'and ik Congress should pass .a similar
law, it would suspend the state law, while the- act of Congress conti6ued in.
force.
This court deemingthe act of.1841, constitutional, it is 'ordered, that the
dedree of the District Court dismissing the proceedixig be reve'rsed, and the, petitioner, Klein, be discharged from his debts, and receive his-certificate. The
same order is directed in the case of Christopher Rhodes;dismissed als6 on
constitutioial grounds by the'District Court.

CHARLES W.

CASTLEMAN; A PETITIONER IN BANKRUPTOT.

(This case is similar -to that of. Nelson.)
ORDER.

THis cause came on-to be heard on the transcript of.the record
from the Circuit Court of the United Statds for the district of Kentucky, and on the points and questions on which the.judges -of
the said Circuit -Court were opposed in opinion, and which- were
certified to this court for its opinion, and was argied by coun el.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded
tQ the said Circuit Court, for such proceedings to be bad therein
as to law and justice -may appertain.
VOL. I.-36

2 A2

