I JANUARY TERM, .184.

87

Minor 'etuu'..v. Tillotson.

case now stands, there is no suit here upon which this court can
foifnd any process to set -aside the execution improperly is.ued,
and'the petition of Benhapn, the administrator, must be dismissed.
ORDER..

-On consideration.of the petition Of Vincent M. 8enham, filed.

inthis case, and of the arguments of counsel tlfereupon had, it is'how here ordered by this court that-ihe;said petition be.'and the
same is hereby dismissed..

I
WILLIAM J. MINOR 'AND CATHERINE HiS WIPE, .PLAINTIS IN ERROR,
V. SHU13AL TILIOTSON.
Whether or nbt a record contains'a bill of exceptons or statement.of factsby
the, court, according to the practice in Louisi.na, by which any question of
law is. brought up for revision in such a form as to enable this court to decide
upon it; and whether or not there is a inass of various and coniicting .testimony in-relation to facts;upon which no jurisdiction can be exeicised'upon a
writ of error; are questions to be decided only upon the final hearing of the
cause.
The court will not go into this inquiryupon a motion to dismiss the rit or error,
berore the cause is taken up for argument.

Webster, of counsel for the: defendant, moved to dismiss*the
writ of error in this case, for the 'following reasons:
1. Because this court has no jjurisdiction on writs of error of'
any question apparent in this record.
2. 'Because the recofd does not show any question of law to'
have been decided in the court below, which this court can..revise.'
3. Because thefe-is no question of law stated on the. record by
bill of exception; nor any special verdict,-or agreed state of facts,or any utiquestioned evidence of facts, on which any-question of.
law can arise.
4. Because it does not appear whether any, or, if any, what
matter of law was in dispute between -the parties.
The action was brought to recover certain tracts of land. Two
trials had been had; the verdict rendered -on the first had ben
set aside by The court, and the judgmight rendered on the second
verdict reversed by this court.

SUPREME COURT.
Minor et, ux. v. Tillotson.

Another jury was empannelled to try the cause, June, 11, 1839;
and after the trial had proceeded for some time, the parties agreed
that the whole case should be submitted to the cQurt, on the facts
and the law, an& that the judge should state the facts as -he should
find *them; that such statement might be regarded as a special
verdict,
On the Ioth-April, 1840, the court rendered a general judgment
for the defendant, without making any statement of facts whatever. And thereupon, the next day, April 11, 1840, the parties
agreed that all documents, plans, depositions, evidence,-and exhibits, read in the cause, should be taken for a statement of facts in
the case. The whole mass, therefore, of various and conflicting
eVidence, mixed up with questions of law, if there be such questiois, is submitted to the decision of the judges of this court. This
is a form of exercising its appellate jurisdiction on writs of error
wPich it is not supposed to be competent to this court to adopt.
2 Wheat. 363; ,3 Peters, 410; 16 Peters, 169.
Walker opposed the motion, and contended that there were
three questions of law in the case, and that the statement of the
judge was adopted, by agreement, as a special verdict.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
A motion has been made to dismiss the writ, upon the ground
that the record contains no bill of exception, nor statement of facts
by the court; according to the practice in Louisiana, by which
any question of law is brought up for revision in such a form as
to enable this court to decide upon it; and that there is a mass
of various and conflicting testimony in relhtion to facts, upon
which no jurisdiction can be exercised upon a writ of error.
Assumuing this statement to be correct, it does not follow that
advantage can be taken of it upon a motion to dismiss. The
record shows that a judgment was rendered in the Circuit Court,
over which this court undoubtedly have jurisdiction upon a writ
of error. The plaintiffs allege that there is rror in law in this
judgment, and have brought it here for the revision of this court.
And upon the argument of th case it will be incumbent uipon

JANUARY TERM,

289

8!43.

Todd v. Daniell.

them to show that the record presents, in some form or other, a
statement of facts upon which a question of law arose -inthe Circuit Court, and wJuich -was there erroneously decided. And if
he fails to do this;the judgment must be affirmed.. But he is
entitled to be heard, in order that he may show, if le can, that
the error of which 'he complains appears in the record; and whether ii does so.appear or not, is a matter which cannot be inquired
into in the form in which the casa is -now brought before us.
The motion must.therefore be dismissed.
ORDER.

On consideration of the motion made in this cause, on a prior day of the present term of this court, to wit, on Saturday, the 18thult., by Mr. Webster, to dismiss this writ of error. for the want of
jurisdiction, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had, as
well in support of as against the said motion, it'is thereupon now
here considered and ordered by this court, that the said motion
be and th same is 'hereby dismissed.

lDAcES

TODD, APPELLANT, V. OTIS

DANIELL,

DEFENDANT.

AN agreement in writing between the counsel, as well for the
appellant as for the- appeJlee, thdt the decree of the CircuitCo.urt
in this case shall be affirmed with legal damages and costs for the
said Daniell, having been filed; it is thereupon considered and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and
damages, at the rate of 6 per centum ,per annum; and also that
the said appellee recover of the said appellant, the further sum
of $125 for the-costs of the transcript of the record in the Circuit
Court according to the said agreement.

VOL.

I.-37

