JANUARY TERM, 184S.

WILLIAM NELSON, A PETITIONER IN BANKRUPTCY,

V. DVINEL CAR-

LAND, AN OPPOSING CREDITOR.

Upon questions adjourned from the District to the Circuit Court under the" Act
to establisi a uniform system of bankruptcy.throughout the United States,"
the district judge cannot sit' as a member of the Circuit Court,-and, consequently, the points adiourned cannot be brought before this court by. a certificate of division.
Nor 'will an appeal or writ of error lie from the decision of the Circuit Court;
and it is conclusive upon the district judge.

THE case came up on a certificate of division in, opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the. district of Kentucky. The facts are set forth in- the opinion
of the court..
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the cour.t.
In the case of William Nelson, petitioner in bankriptcy-ih the
,Kentucky district, against Daniel Carland, an opposing creditor,
several points were adjourned by the District to-the Circuit Court.
Upon the hearing in the last-mentione'd court, the district judge,
as well as the justice of the Supreme Court. sat'in the case, and
being opposed in opinion upon the questions adjourned, they
were certified to this court upion the imotion of the counsel. for
the petitioner.
The first question- that presents itself upon this certificate is,
whether the Supreme Court have jurisdiction in the. matter in
this form of proceeding. And after examining the printed argument filed by the counsel for the petitioner, and carefully considering the subject, the court are -of opinion that.,the district
judge cannot sit, as a member of- the Circuit Court, upon. questions adjourned to that court, under, the "Act to establish a uniform. system of, bankrpptcy throughout the. United, States ;" and
that,. consequently, the points adjourned cannot:be brought before
this court-by a.cxtificate of division. Nor will an. appeal or
,writ of error ie from the decision of the Circuit Court, ,and it is.
conclusive upon the district judge.
In deliverng the opinion of the _court, it is, however, proper
for me to say, that I dissent from that part.of it which excludes
VoL. I.-34
Z

266

SUPREME COURT.'
Nelson v. Carland.

the district judge 'from sitting as a member of the Circuit Court
in a case of this description. Yet I concur in the judgment dismissing these-proceedings; being of opinion that the act of Congress .of 1802, "authoriiing the certificate of division where the
judges of the Circuit Court are opposed in opinion, does not
apply to the peculiar and summary jurisdiction directed to be exerdised.in cases of bankruptcy.
The proceediings must therefore be dismissed for want 6fjurisdiction.

-

Mr. Justice CATRON dissented.
On' a petition for a discharge, the district judge adjourned into
the Circuit Court the question-Whether the act of 1841, establishing a, iniform system of bankruptcy, was constitutional, or
otherwise. The'judges were divided in opinion on the question,
and a certificate -of-division was made to the Supfeme Court;
calling up6n -this court to decide the questi6n, and return it so
decided, to be entered as-the judgment of the Circuit Court:
The district judge May adjourn into the Circuit Court any
question, Whether he has, or has not, doubts regarding its decision. Its importance is a sufficient reason. That he properly
adjourned the question, whether the bankrupt law was or was
not constitutional,.is free from doubt. Of this question, the Circuit Court had full and proper jurisdiction; and the decision of
it would have been conclusive of the case before us.
Was it a "question" on which the- jdges could divide in
opinion ?
The act of April 29, 1802, provides: "That whenever any
question shall occur before a Circuit Court, upon which' the opi-nion of the. judges shallbe-opposed, the 'point upon which the
disagreement shall happen, shall duihng the same term, upon the
request of either party. or their counsel, be stated under the direction of the judges,. ;nc ertified under the seal of the court, to
;he-. Supreme Court, at their next session to .be held 'hereafter;
and shall, by the'said court, be finally decided. And the decision
of the Suprenme Court, and their order in the premises, shall be
remitted' to the. Circuit Court, and be there entered of record,'
and shall have effect according to the nature of the said
judgment and order: Provided, That .nothing herein .contained

JANUA&RY TERM, 1843.

-267'"

Nelson v. Carland.

shall prevent the cause from proceeding, if, in. the opinion,6f the.
court, further proceedings can be had without prejudice to the
merits."
The act 'declares, when any "question shall occur before the
Circuit Court," &c., then, on a division, a certificate shall be made
at the request of either party. No matter in what form of proceeding it occurs, be it at law or in equity; divisions are. nearly
as frequent in causes in equity as at law. Under the bankrupt
law, the proceedings are in the form prescribed to courts of equity.
Now, "did a question occur,'! in the Circuit Court? It must
be admitted that one of the gravest occurred that. could be' presented to a court of justice: there it was to be decided, a'nd'the
case concluded by its decision. The judges were opposed, and
it could not be decided: then it was their duty, at the request of
either party, to send it to this court, to decide for the Circuit
-Court; where the decision of the Suprem6 Court is to be entered
as the judgment of the Circuit Court.
So far the case presented, seeins to be sufficiently blear': 'but
it is met by arrother consideration; and that is, whether tho Circuit Court, in a question adjourned under'the 6th section of the.
bankrupt law, 'consists of the two judges, or of the circuit judge
only. In all other cases, in the Circuit Courts of the United
States, except in writs of 6rror and appeals from the. District
Court to the Circuit Court, (an exception made by positive legislation;) the -two judges havb eqlual powers-they constitute the
Circuit Court usually; and must do o when a 'division takes
place: does the bankrupt law cut off these powers of the district judge? The law does not so provide; and can it be justly
inferred ? If the district judge cannot.be a menwer of 'the court
on. the hearing of the adjourned question, then no division, of
course"can take place. To come at the inference of his exclusion, the intention of Congress urst be ascertained from the
'whole scope of the act.
Great questions were involved in its construction. It was to
be admihisteied 'by' mre -than thirty judges, acting separately;'
no appeal to the Circuit Court was allowed, save in a single case:
that of a refusal to finally discharge the bankrupt from his debts,
(sec. 4;) and then the Circuit Court-is commanded, if the bankrupt shall be. found entitled to the benefits of the act,"' to, make a

268

SUPREME COURT.
Nelson v. Carland.

decree of discharge, and grant a certificate, as provided in this
act."- No appeal is allowed to this court from the decree of the
Circuit Court: the creditor is iot allowed an appeal, either from
the District Court to the Circuit Court, or to the Supreme Court,
in any case. Nor is the debtor a16 wed an appeal from the decree
of the Circuit Court, refusing his discharge. Such is the unanimous opinioni of my brethren now prdsent; and with which
opinion Lconcur. If the discharge is objected to by the creditors,
ahd the District Court refuses it, the debtor may then demand: a
trial by jury, and try the matter oyer again: if the jury decides
against him .also, he may then appeal to 1he Circuit Court, and
there elect to submit the matter a third time, either to the court,
or to another jury; and this finding is conclusive, whether by
the court or a jury. It is not possible, therefore, to reach this
court by appeal, in'a bankrupt case. -This is clear; and my
brethren think itequally'clear, that no adjourned question can be
brought heie by a division of opinion: it follows, this court has
no revising pdwer over the numerous and conflicting constructions
of the bankrupt law.. In some circuits it is held, that oneih-.
debted "in consequence of a defalcation as a public officer; or as
,,executor,'or administrator guardian, or trustee; or while acting in
any other -fiduciary capacity," can be discharged from all his
other debts; and that the less favoured creditors may take all his
property, unless the government, ward, &c., see. proper to come
in for distribution i when the fiduciary claim
will also be extinguished. In 'other circuits, those indebted to any amount in a
fiduciary capacity are all excluded as a class.. the fact appearing
on: the face of the petition, it is dismissed of course. Such is the
construction of the act in the eighth circuit; it has excluded from
applying -great numbers in the eighth and other circuits, who
would have been admitted had they applied in circuits where the
law is construed otherwise. -This question also has been brought
here by a division of: opinion from the district of Kentucky, at
the instance of the district and circuit judges, acting together as
the Circuit Court; the question having been adjourned into that
court by the district ju'dge.
In the case 'of William Nelson, the question occurred in the
same court, whether the bankrupt law was unconstitutional and
old, or otherwise. It was adjourned, as already stated,.into the

JANUARY TERM, 18."

269 '

-Nel~ou v. Carland..

Circuit Court. by.the district judgp; and -there the judge&were
opposed in opinion, and certified. the question to this cour 'fbr.its
decision. This was done at the instance of the bar- f-St. Louis ,
the district judge of Missouri having pronounced the bankrupt
act a mere insolvent law; suh as was never contemplated. by
.the framers of the Constitution, and therefore void. -The f6llow-"
ing are some of his reasons for entertaining this opinion:
"Is this act of Congress, under which the petitioher claims a
dischfarge from his debts, authorized by the Constitution?' In
order to determine this, it will b& necessary to notice several of
its provisions.
"It provides, in substa.nce, that any person, whether a trader
or not, who is indebted, except in a. few enumerated cases, may..
file his petition in the District Court of the United States, for the
bUnefit of the act, at any time he may please, without the-consent
or action of any of his. creditors, and obtain by a dedree of the
dcourt, a discharge from all his debts. This decree is to be had
without the ohsent of any of his creditors being required' even
if they do'nof participate in the proceedings or receive'a dividend
from the property. The decree is to be deemed a fulland .com-plete discharge from all his debts, contracts, and engagements,
proveable under the act, whether contracted before or after the
passage of the act. If he has property, he surrenders it; if he has.
none, it is the same thing'as it.regards his discharge.
"In examining this question, we should ascertain, if possible,
what was the object -the convention had in view by inserting the
provision. The phraseology adopted would indicate a part of
the object: 'To establish uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United. States.' It was apprehended, at
le'st, that they would notbe uniform, unless, Congress had the
-power to make them so. In additioh to this,.we are told by. Mr.
Madison (Fed. No. 42) that ' the power of establishing- uniform
laws of bankruptcy, isso intimately connected with the regulatioR of commerce, and will prevent so many frauds where the parties
-or their.property may lie or be removed into -different states, that
the expediency of it seems not likely to be drawn into question.'
To have a system that would be uniform and -would prevent
frauds, &c., seems to have been the'objoct. The proposition was

270

.

SUPREME COURT.
Nelson v. Carland.

referred to the committee of detail, of which Mr. Rutledge was
chairman, and reported as it now stands in.the Constitution. In
ascertaining what were the mischiefs to be remedied or the objects
to be effected, the convention, doubtless, looked to the conditian
of things, and of course to the institutions and laws of the various
states. But for a definition of that or any other legal term, or
to ascertain the nature and extent of the powers they were about
to grant, by particular words or phrases, they would hardly look
to the laws of the states. There was far less intercourse in those
days than at present. There were" no steamboats, raikoads, or
Macadamized roads.
.. "The laws of the several states could not have been generally
known to the members of the convention.from the different states;
even the best lawyers could not have been acquainted with the
laws of the states in which they did not practise. They are not
so, even at this day.. If-they had been acquainted with the laws
of all the states, to which would they have referred in preference
to all the rest, for definitions, or the meaning and extent of legal
.terms? The convention well knew it was making a Constitution
ibr the whole Union; that the terms they might use should be
known and understood, and must be interpreted and explained
in every state. They -were, therefore, exceedingly exact in the
use of words and phrases: every word of legal import, every
,phrase was weighed and considered; and a phrase of only a few
words was frequently referred' to a committee, as was done in
this ca'se, and examined and reported on. They were frequently
obliged to use legal terms; they were making a law; this was a
legal term-bankrupt laws: what was to be done to prevent
confusion and uncertainty? and, above all, to mark exactly and
-with legal precision the extent of the powers they were about to.
grant, that- neither more nor less power might be granted than
was desired?
* Our ancestors had removed froin England; the United States
had then- lately been English colonies and part-of the British
empire. The English laws and'system of jurisprudence had
been substantially adopted in every state in the Union. Every
person at all conversant with legal subjects, and every lawyer
of course, was acquainted with th6 English laws. This know-

JANUARY TERM, I43.

271

Nelson v. Carland.

ledge was equally' extensive in Very state. It is so to this day.
Here, then, was' a law with'which all were acquainted, and to.
which all could refer.' There could be no mistake,'if Ireference
was made to it for the meaning of terms. And to it they did accordingly refer. We do so to this day. Ask a lawyer the meaning of a legal term, and where does he look for an answer ? Td
the statutes of Massachusetts or Georgia---Ner York, Pennsylvania, or Virginia? -Certainly not.. ATn most instances he would
look in vain.
"The proposition in: regard to bankrupteias was made by Mr.
'Charles Pinkney, of South Carolina, in the words we now find
in the Constitution. It waa referred to the'committee- of detail,
consisting of Mr. Rutledge 'of South Carolina, Mr. Randolph of
Virginia, Mr. G6rham of Massachusetts, Mr.'Ells.worth'df Connecticut, and Mr. Wilson of'Pennsylvania; and they reported it
in the words in which- it was referred. N'w, several of these
states never had any thing like a bankrupt law. Ta which . n
did they refer, or could :they refer; to ascertain the mianing and
extent ofthe. terms they were employing? The lawyer, if he is
not familiar with-the term, will refer to Bla'ckstoie's Commentaries,' or to an English Law. Dicionary, where he will r~adily find
.it. Ifthe referred to the statutes of the different states, hemight
get as'many definitions~as there were states, supposingthey had
any law on:the subject.
"'The first' Continental Congress, in 1774, declared, among
other things, cthat, the respecti-e Col6nies were entitled to 'the
benefit of such-vf the English statutes as existed 'at the time of
their colonization, and. which they -had,by experience, fouind to
be applicable to their several Iodal and Other circunstances.'
1 Journal of Congress, 28, Phila. ed. of 1s00.
'Many of the states had adoptid, in a'abody, the English
statutes, only excepting such' as were local to that kingdom, or
not applicable to their situation.
The Supreme Court of the United'Statesin Pattersonv.W.inh,
5 Peters, 233, siy, that 'the English statutes, passed before the
*emigration of our ancestors, and applicable to our situation, and in*
amendment of the law, constituted a part of the common law of
the country.'
"We know, as matter of history, that the members of the cuL-

272

SUPREME COURT.
Nelson v. Carland.

vention .who took part in debate, were intimately acquainted
with-the English laws. The committee above mentioned pos-.
sessed several of the most eminent lawyers in America, and who
have held the highest legal stations. Reference was often made
by them to the English.laws for the meaning of terms or phrases
they were using. Thus, when it was proposed to define and
limit treason against the United States, Mr. Randolph and Mr.
Eflswort4 (two of the committee,) Mr. Madison, Mr. Mason, and
Mr Gouverneur Morris, all referred to the act of Parliament of
25th Edward 3d; and the convention, at last, adopted the precise
phraseology of that act. Madison Papers, 1770. Again, when
the phrase ' ex post facto' was under consideration, Mr. Dickerson stated that, on examining, Blackstone's Commentaries, he
found the terra related to criminal cases only. Mad. Pap. 1450.
knd ihe Supreme Court has since confirmed the signification of the
terms to the definition given by Blackstone. Mr. Hamilton, who
was a member of the convention* in speaking of the 'Habeas.
,Corp.zs; provision in'the Constitution, iefers to, and quotes,
Blaclkstone's Commentaries. Fed. No. 84.
This general principle being established, we may go a step
further, and show that, in point of fact, the *convention had the
8nglish statutes in vidw, in determining the nature and extent
of the-power they were granting to Congress, when the bankrupt
clause was under consideration.
"Mr.
M Sherman observed (that bankruptcies were, in. some
cases punishable with death by the laws of England, and he did'
not choose to grant a power, by which that might be done here.'
It thus appears; that the law of Eng"3Mad. Pap. 1481.
land were the laws referred to in regard to the definition and na- ture of the powers they were. conferring.
"It may also be remarked, that Blackstone's Commentaries
were in the hands of the members, and frequently referred to.
This book coutained a definition of a bankrupt, and a summary
of'the'English laws on the subject. What then was the English'
law to whidf the convention referred when they adopted the
,clause in regard to bankrupts ? The English system, when the
convention sat, had been in operation for several generations;
and-provided,'in 'substance, a proceeding by a creditor against a
-debtor, -who was 'a trader; distributiou, of bankrupt's effects.

JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

273

Nelson v. Carland.

equally among his creditors; a discharge to be obtained by the
debtor from his debts, upon obtaining the consent of a given majority of his creditors.
"It was a proceeding for the benefit of creditors, as are all
laws for the collection of debts, of which this was one; but with
liberality towards the debtor, who, by misfortunes so frequently
attending trade, became unable to pay his debts, in allowing him
a discharge from those debts, upon obtaining the consent thereto
of a given majority of his creditors. Even this provision for a'
discharge, we are told by Blackstone, was intended for the benefit
'of creditors, as it influenced debtors to act with economy, industry,
and honesty, and make a full surrender of their property, without
which they could not hope to obtain the consent of their creditors.
"The whole system- was founded on the Principle, that a
trader, who. owed debts in various parts oi the country, and
was fraudulently making way with his property, instead of paying his debts-with it, should have that property taken away arid
placed in the hands of frustees or other officers, with which his
debts should be paid, and each of his creditors, whether absent.
or present, have his fair dividend.
"We are told by Mir. Madison, who has, not inaptly, been
called the Father of the Constitution, that a uniform system of
bankruptcy 'would prevent so many frauds, when the parties, or
their property, may lie or, be removed into different states, that
the expediency of it seems not likely to be drawn in question.'
Fed. No. 42. This reason for the adoption of the clause in regard
to bankrupts was published by Mr. Madison after the Constitution was proposed by the c6nvention, but before it was adopted
by the states;. was intended to explain the grant of power to
Congress, and t9 induce the states to accept the Constitution; and
no doubt had its effect. The frauds of whomr-the removal of
whose property, are here spoken of? Certainly the frauds of the
debtor- the property of the debtor.
"-We have another almost contemporaneous exposition of this
grnt 6f power to Congress. It-is the act of, Congress of 1800,
'To establish a uniform system of bankruptcy throughout the
United States.' It is altogether, in its principle and material
features, like the English system; a proceeding by creditors
against debtors who are traders; distribution of banirupt's effects
VOL. 1.-35
-

274

SUPREME COURT.
N'elson v. Carland.

equally among creditors; a discharge of the bankrupt from his
debts, on the consent obtained of a given majority Qf his creditors.
"I have now, I think, shown that the bankrupt system intended
by the framers of the Constitution, and to establish whichY'power
was given to Congress, was a system for the .benefit of creditors,
to enable them to collect their just debts, and to prevent the frauds
of debtors who might remove their property and thbmselves into
different states..
"I will now show that the act we are considering is solely and
entirely for.the benefit of debtors, and to onable them. to avoid
their debts; and therefore opposed to the whole intent, spirit, and
object of a bankrupt law. For this purpose I will here further
notice some of its provisions.

" 1. The debtor selects his own time to commence proceedingswhen he may have entirely squandered his property, and when
nothing can be found. It is not even necessary that he should
have been sued, or threatened with a suit, or ever asked for
the debt.
"2. He is allowed to select the state and county where he will
commen6e proceedings. For this purpose he can change his residence or business to any place he may think most favourable.
Ie can thus go where nobody is likely to detect his frauds.
"3.- He* may have spent all his property im idleness, riotous
living, debauchery, or gambling, in stocks, or #ild speculations:
it will not affect him; and he is entitled to his discharge, equally
with the most prudent, industrious, and economical person.
114. If he does not surrender to his creditors one dent's worth
of property, he may have property reseryed to him, to the amount
of 8300,for his own use ;.and also his wearing apparel, and that
*of his family, which has been held, by some, ta"include jewelry.
"5. If a majority of his creditors should object to his discharge,
it will only give him an additional privilege-that of demanding
a jury, and taking the cause away from the court. Or he may
appeal, even before the cause is-tried, and is allowed ten days to
appeal in. No such privileges are given to creditors.
"6. After the court disposes of the matter, or-decides the cause
against him, and refuses the discharge, he can then have it referred to a jury, although already tried and decided by the court,

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

275

Nelson v. Carland.

which, heretofore, has never been. allowed in any case, either in
faw dr'equity. The creditor is allowed no such privilege,
"7. .In such cases, n6 provision is made by the act to allow the
creditors a trial by jury.
"8. An appeal is giveri to the debtor-none -is allowed by the
act to a creditor.
"9. When the cause is removed into the appellate court, the
debtor can demand either a trial by jury or-a trial by the court.
The creditor has no such privilege.
"io. The debtor may take the chance of a decision in his
favour by the court; if in his favour, it will be conclusive. If
the court decides against him, then he may dem~and a jury, and
have another chance. If the court decides against him, he can
have another- chance by appeal. In the appellate court, if he
thinks the court is likely, from previous decision, to be against
him, he can take the chance of a jury. If he thinks.'the jury is
likely to be against him, he can take his charted with the court.
If some of these chances do not hit, there is no ' uncertainty in
the law.' The creditor has no choice; any decision against him'
is to be final, and scarcely any in his favour is allowed to be final
or conclusive.
"11-. The English bankftpt law and the act of 1800 gave the
appointment of the assignee to the creditors, because they alone
were interested. No such privilege is given by this act.
"12. The commissioner is to be appointed in the county-where
the bankrupt lives.
"13. There is no punishinent "forfrauds.
"14. To. conclude, the debtor is to get a discharge from all his'
debts, without- the consent of any creditor. It applies to debts
contracted before the passage of the act, and of which creditors
could have had no idea at the time they gave the credit.
"May I not h ere inquire, whether it is fair to constiue thigrant of power, intended for the benefit of creditors, and to enable
them to collect their just debts, so as to authorize the passage of.a Jaw solely for the benefit of debtors, and to enable them foiavoid
and discharge their debts?
"Again: a clause had been introduced into the Constitution,
prohibiting ihe states .from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts, because, as was said by the members of 'the

276

SUPREME COURT.
.Nelson v. Carland.

convention, it was immoral, contrary to the first principles of justice, and a power that ought not to be exercised by any legislatie
body. Would the states have ratified the'Constitution, and submitted to sucl a prohibition on themselves, for such reasons, if
they had understood that Congress could, at its. pleasure, under
colour of bankrupt laws, authorize the abrogation of all contracts?"
Pursuant to the opinion, decrees were entered, dismissing the
first cases presented for final discharges in the district of Missouri;
and-some twelve hundred -more, depending in that court, will be,
dismissed, unless the-decrees are reversed which have.been entered.* It was thought, by the circuit judge, due to the county at
large, and to the parties. concerned, that this important question
should meet with the speedy decision of this court; and therefore
it was brought here.
No law that Congress ever passed, has in it to a greater degree, the' elements of various construction and confusion, than the
bankrupt 'law of 1841, when administered by more than .thirty
judges, acting sbparately;' if all are exempt from the revising
power of this tribunal, created for the purpose (amongst others)
of producing uniformity of decision and construction in all cases
over which its jurisdiction extends.
I think Congress intended, by the 6th section of the bankrupt
law, to gi 3 the district judge the power to adjourn questions
into the Circuit Court, 1. For the purpose of obtaining the .aid
'and assistance of the circuit judge; and, 2. To make up a division of opinion on great questions, so that the decision of the Supreme Court might be had. This was contemplated by Congress; or it was intended that in no bankruit ca'se should this
court have a revising power, although in every district in the
United States the law might be differently construed: and the
wildest prediction could hardly have exceeded the reality. So
far'from being "a uniform system of bankruptcy," in its7 administrdtion, it has become, by the various and conflicting constructions put upon it, little more uniform than the different and conflicting state insolvent laws. This result could not have escaped
those who passed the law; it was too prominently manifest to be
overlooked; I cannot, therefore, bring my mind to the belief that
the revising pow'or of this court was intended to be cut off. And,
as the most expeditious -and convenient mode o. revision was by

JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

277

Nelson. v. Cailand.,
atdivision of opinion, I think Congress intended that should be
the mo-de. Notwithstanding the question was sent to this court,
the case mighi progress below at the election of the. district court;
so the recited act of 1'802 provides ;-and then the creditor and
debtdr would have equal opportunities to redress a perverted construction. But, as the matter now stands, the remedy is with
Congress, either to give this court jurisdiction, or to withhold it.
ORDER:
This cause came on to be heard-on the transcript-of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
Kentucky, and on the points and questions on which the judges
of the said Circuit Court were opposed. -in opinion, and which
were certified to this court for its opinion, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and
adjudged by this court, that this cause be and the same is hereby
dismissed, for the want of jurisdiction, and that this cause be and
the same is hereby remanded. to the said Circuit Court, for such
proceedings to be had therein as to law and justice may appertain.

While this volume was in press, we received the following opinion deliveredby Judge Catron in his judicial district, which we insert as being.of general
interest.
IN THE MATTER-oF EDWARD, KLEIN.
This is an appeal from the District Court of Missouri, in a case of bank-,
ruptcy, on the voluntary petition. of the appellant, to be discharged from his
debts, on the stirrender of his property, according to' the act of Congress of
1841. The proceeding being ir,all respects regular, the petitioner moved for
his discharge: the District. Coart refused to grant such motion, "because it
considered the act of Congress under which said Klein asked to-be discharged
from all his debts, as being against the Constitution of.the United States ; and
therefore the court hadno power to grant such discharge."
The ground of this judgment the Circuit Court is called upon to revise. I
am relieved from, setting forth at any length the opinion of the district judge,
- because this has been already done, in an opinion delivered by me in the Supreme Court of the United States at its last term, when 'an attempt was made
to bring the present question before that cohrt'to.have it decided- for the put=
poses of this case.
By the Constitution, Congress is vested with power "to establish uniform
lawson the-subject-of bankruptcies throughout "the United States." The
district juidge was of opinion, that the extent of the power is limited to the princifile on which the English"bankrupt system
2 A was founded; and-to that system

278

SUPREME COURT.
Nelson v. Carland.

the convention referred, When it adopted the clause above recited, forits definition. That system provided, a proceeding by a creditor against a debtor who
was a trader; a distribution of a bankrupt'seffects equally among his creditors;
and a discharge of the debtor from his contracts.upon obtaining the consent of
a given majority of-his creditors. That it was a proceeding for the benefit
of creditors; the whole system being founded on the principle that a trader
who owed debts in various parts of tie country, and was fraudulently making
away with his property, instead of paying his debts with it, should have the
property taken away .and placed in the hands of trustees or other officers, with
which his debts should be paid; and each of his creditors, whether presel1t or
-absent, have his fair dividend; and that the bankrupt law of 1800, is a fair exposition of the constituti6nal provision.
Briefly: That a bankrupt law, was ohe, by which honest creditors could force
fraudulent debtors, who were traders, to surrender all their property to pay
rateably all their just debts: but that a law made solely and entirely for the benefit of debtors, and which enabled them at their own election, to avoid their
debtsi was opposed to the whole intent, spirit, and object of a bankrupt law.
I state thus much of the grounds on which my brother judge's decree was
founded from his printed opinion, because this case has not been argued on
part of the creditors; for whom no counsel appeared in this court, nor did there
in the court below, as I am informed. The accuracy, industry, and unquestioned ability of the district judge, have, I do not doubt brought forward the
best reasons that exist, in sippox:t of the judgment he gave. The tenor, and
true spirit, of the English bankrupt laws, such as they were when our Federal
Constitution was adopted, he has given; and I agree with him, that the act of
1841, in so far as it permitted the debtor at his own sole election, to come intocourt and coerce an extinction of hi' debts, and abrogation of his contracts,
contrary to the will of his creditors, was in violation of the leading principles
on which the English laws were .founded. Our law contemplated a: proceeding
by a debtor against his creditors; provided the debtor was insolvent: by the
English law, the creditor alone could originate the proceeding; ana it mattered
not, whether the defendant was insolvent or otherwise; if he did the frauduleni
act it made him a bankrupt-a fraudulent tradir. Then by the English laws,
"a fraudulent trader" could only be a bankrupt; with him as debtor; and with
his creditors, could courts deal; and this at the election of the creditors-the
debtor, having no election to ask for distribution or for a discharge from his
debts. If the power conferred on Congress, carries with it these restrictions,
then the District Court properly refused to discharge the applicant Klein, because the act of Congress wa unconstitutional in his case. But other hnd
controlling considerations enter into the.construction of the power: it is general and unlimited, it gives the unrestricted authority to Congress over tle entire
subject, as.the Parliament of Great Britain had -it; and as the soverei g"siates
of this Union had it before the time when the Constitution was adopted. To go
no further: what w'ts the power of the §tates on thp subject of-bankruptcies 1
They could, and constantly did, permit the debtor to come involuntarily and
surrender his property, and ask a discharge from his debts ; the property was
distributed generally among the creditors, and the debts of the petitioner an-

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

279

Nelson v. tarland,
nulled. Nor does the Constitution prohibit the states from passing such laws;
New York, Penn~ylvania, Louisiana, and others,.now have them in full opera.
tion. The insolvent laws of Pennsylvania are in substance, and to a great extent in detail, similar to the act of Congress of 1841; and no doubt furnished
some of the ideas that were incorporated into the act. That.Pennsylvania had
power to pass these laws, no one eier doubted, so far is she was not restricted
by the Constitution of the United States. The Supreme Court held, in the case
of Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, that the states retained the power and
could exercise it by law, and that the law would operate.to discharge the contract between debtor and creditor; they being inhabitants of the particular
state at the date of the proceeding, if the contract had been made there'after
passing the law. In guch case the parties contmcted subject to the law, and it
entered into the contract.. The case of Boyle v. Zacharie and Turner, 6 Peters,
635, settled the contested question of power; and'that it remained with the
states to this limited extent. But the restrictions depend on general principles
of international law, and other parts of the Constitution; especially thatwhich.
prqhibits the states from passing any law impairing the obligations of contracts; as will be seen by reference to the leading case on the subject, of Sturges
v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122. What the states might do before the adoption
of the Constitution, may well be ascertained, from what they now do in virtue
of their respective powers. They may frame a bankrupt law in any form they
see proper; this has never been questioned so far as my knowledge extends.
The controversies in the Supreme Court turned on the question, whether the
Constitution inhibited the states (there being no acts of Congress opposed to it)
from legislating on the subject of bankruptcies ; or, whether the power was exclusive in Congress. In'the state tribunals the debtor comes involuntarily, and
forces the creditor to prove his debt or be barred. One not E trader may apply:
ineither is the consent of the creditots (or any portion of them) necessary to
authorize a discharge .from the contracts bf the debtor. St he may have no
property to divide, and many debts .to annul. from which he seeks a discharge,
and from which he is discharged.. These powers crearly belonged to the state
governments, before Congress .was invested with them; and this was done
without limitation.
The Districf Court relied confide'ntly on the ground,'that Congress can pass
no law violating contracts; and that the clause of the Constitution conferred
no such authority, because. the English bankrupt !aws, by which the power is
supposed to be restricted, only permitted the contract to be annulled at the election of four parts in five of the creditors in number and value; and therefore
they annulled it by a new contract. This argument proceeds on the assumption, that a proceeding in bankruptcy can only be had, at the election of, and
for thd benefit of creditols; and -that every material step, is their joint act; to
which the debtor jq compelled to submft. For the present it will only be necessary to say, that one prominent reason, why the power is given to Congress,
ivas to secure to the people of the United. States, as one people, a uniform law,
by which a debtor might be discharged from the obligation of his contracts;
and his future acquisitions exempted from his previoas engagements: that the
rights of deblor and creditor, equally entered into the mind of the frdmers of the

280.

SUPREME COURT..
Nelson v. Carland.

-

Constitution. The great object was to deprive-the states of the dangerous power
to abolish debts. Few provisions in the Constitution have-had more bt tficial
consequences than this; and the kindred inhibition on the states, that they
should-pass no law impairing the obligation of contracts.
The inhabitants of states producing largely, must be"creditors; the inhabitants of those that are consumers, will be debtors; bankrupt laws of the latter
states might ruin the producers and creditors; they having no interest or power
in the government of the consuming states, and it being the interest of the latter
to annul the, debts of non-residents, no remedy'would exist for the grossest op
pression. No laws of relief would be more effectual in times of pressure by
foreign creditors; nor more likely to be adopted. If one state adopted such 'a
measure, it would furnish a fair occasion for others to do the same, on the plan
sible pretext of self-defence; others would be forced into a similar bad policy,
until discredit and ruin would overspread the entire land, by an -extinction of
all debts; and a*consequent prostration of morals, public and private, on the
subject of contracts. This evil had to a certain extent occurred, and was fresh
in he minds of the framers of the-Constitution; and no doubt it would again
occur in some of the states, but for the proiisions under consideration standing
in the way, qf abrogating the private contracts of non-residents.
But if Congress passed :the law, it must be uniform throughout the United
Stafes, then the entire people are equally represented, and- have the power to
protect themselves against hasty and mistaken legislation, by its repeal, if found
oppressive in practice.
I LegiSlation by Congress on the-subject of bankrupteies, is of much less conseqience, than its prohibition on part of the, states. They can pass no -law
affecting a non-resident, because no jurisdiction exists of his person ; they can
impair no contract made out of the state, because it was not made subject to
the state insolvent law. The power, as it stands restricted by th6 decision in
Ogden v. Saunders, is almost harmless; those whom thestafe bankrupt law can
most affect, have the popular vote in the state legislature, and may repeal the
law; the foreigner has -little- interest in its existence, as he cannot be afrect~d
by -it,further than that the debtor may be deprived of his property. - Another
reason why Congress was vested with the power, -was to prevent dangerous conflicts of jurisdiction among the states.- A discharge in one sovereignty from
contracts, is by the laws of nations not recognised as a discharge in -anotier
sovereignty,- save on the grounds of comity; an assignee uuder the British
bankrupt la,'s, is not recognised in this country as owner of the debts of the
bankrupt; and an attaching creditor, or the government may disregard.A title
set 'up by the'foreign assignee. Harrison v. Sterry, 5 Cranch, 298. The states
in' this respect ar6 foreign to each other, and would be little likely to extend
eomity to. the dischparge 'of each others; from which great confusion might
follow, and much ill wilL
In. considerink the question before me, I have not pretended to give a definition; (but purposely avoided any attempt to- define) the mere word, n'AXRIUPTcY.
It is employed in the Constitution in the plural, and as part of an expression; "the subject of-baikruptcies." The ideas attached to the word in
this connection, are numerous and complicated; they form a subject, of exten-

JANUARY TERM, Ika.

-%91

In re Castleman.

sive and complicited legisation; of this subject, Congress has. general jurisdiction; and the true inguiry is-To what limits is that jurisdiction restrictidi.
I hold, it extends to all cases where the law causes to be distribut~d, the' property of the debtor among his creditors:' this is its leas't limit. Its.greatest, is
a discharge of the debtor from his contradts. And all intermediate legislation,
affecting substance and form,-but tending to further thegreat end of the subject
*--distribution and discharge-are in the competency and discretion of Congress.
With the policy of a lkw, letting in all classes, others-as-:well as traders; and
permitting the bankrupt to come in voluntarily, and be discharged'without the
consent of his creditors, the courts have no 'concern, it belongs -to the law-.
makers.
I have spoken of ttate bankrupt laws. I.deemevery state law, a bankrupt
law, in substance and fact, that causes.to be distributed'by a-tribunal, the'pro-,
perty of a debtor-among his creditors; and. it is especially such,-ifitcases
the'debtor tobe discharged from his contracts, within the limits .prescribed by
the case of Ogden v. Saunders. Such a law-may be denomitia.ted an -irsdlvent
law; still it deals directly with the subject of bankrptcies, and is-a bankrupt
law, in the sense of the Constitution;'and ik Congress should pass .a similar
law, it would suspend the state law, while the- act of Congress conti6ued in.
force.
This court deemingthe act of.1841, constitutional, it is 'ordered, that the
dedree of the District Court dismissing the proceedixig be reve'rsed, and the, petitioner, Klein, be discharged from his debts, and receive his-certificate. The
same order is directed in the case of Christopher Rhodes;dismissed als6 on
constitutioial grounds by the'District Court.

CHARLES W.

CASTLEMAN; A PETITIONER IN BANKRUPTOT.

(This case is similar -to that of. Nelson.)
ORDER.

THis cause came on-to be heard on the transcript of.the record
from the Circuit Court of the United Statds for the district of Kentucky, and on the points and questions on which the.judges -of
the said Circuit -Court were opposed in opinion, and which- were
certified to this court for its opinion, and was argied by coun el.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded
tQ the said Circuit Court, for such proceedings to be bad therein
as to law and justice -may appertain.
VOL. I.-36

2 A2

