SUPREME COURT.

JOEL-,COLLINS, A PETITIONER IN BANKRUPTCY; V. JAESoBLYTH, AN
OPPOSING CREDITOR.

(This case is similar to that of Nelson.)
ORDER.

THIs oause came on to be heard 'on the transcript of the record
fron the',ircuit Court of the United States for the district of Kentucky, and on the points and questions on which the judges of

the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and was argued
by counsel.. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered
and -adjudged by this court, that this cause be and the same is
hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction, and that this cause be
and the.same is hereby remanded to lhe said Circuit Court, for such
•proceedings to be had therein as to law and justice may appertain.

WILaAAI

TAYLOR AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS,

EXECUTOR OF SAKURL

SAVAGE,

v.

DECEASED,

GEORGE

M.

SAVAGE,

DEFENDANT.

Where a decree is passed by the court below against an executor, being the
defendant in a chancery suit, and before an appeal is prayed the executor is
remnoved by a court of compotent jurisdiction, and an administrator de bonts
non with the will annexed, is appointed, all further proceedings, either by
execution or appeal, are irregular, until. the administrator be m~de a party to
the suit.
If an execution be issued before the proper parties are thus made, it is unau•thorized and v'oid; and no right of p'roperty will .pass by a sale under it.
The, admitfistrator cannot obtain redress by application to this court, but must
first be made . party in the court below. -This may be done at the instance
- of either side.
After he is thus made a piarty,-e may -stay proceedings by giving bond, or the
Icomplainants may enforce the decree, if the bond
be not filed in time.
It is not clear that a complainant who has appealed from a decree in his favour,
in the hope of. obtaining a larger sum, can, pending the appepi, issue execu*tion upon the decree of the couri below.

Morehead,-of counsel for the appellee, moved the court for
leave t6 give aii.4ppeal bond in this case, which shall operate as
a supersedeas,and for leave to docket the cross-appeal, and for
such relief as may meet the case.

