14

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Ash.

removed out of the estate by the first taker, it is evident upon
common law principles, that the limitation over would have been
good. 2 East, 481. Now a 'bequest of freedom to the slave
stands upon the same principles with a bequest over to a third
person. It is 'said by the chancellor of Maryland, 2 Bland's
Chancery Rep. 314, that the bequest of freedom to a slave is a
specific legacy, and undbubtedly this is its true legal character.
And if a bequest over'to a third person would not be regarded
as an unlawful restraint upon alienation, there can be no reason
for applying a different rule where the bequest over is freedom
to the slave. In the one case, the restriction on alienation ceases
as soon as the devise over takes effect; and in the other, the
right of property ceases upon the happening of the contingency,
and there is nothing to alien. ,
We think that the bequest in the 'vill was a.conditional limitation of freedom to the petitioner, and that it took effect the moment he was sold. The judgment of the Circuit Court must
therefore be affirmed.

*GEORGE W.

HAMMOND,

HAMMOND,

DECEASED,

DDMINISTRATOR
AND

OTHERS,

LEWIS, EXE 'UTOR OF LAWRENCE
ACTING EXECUTOR OF GEN.

DE DONJS NON OF THoAs
APPELLANTS,

v.

LORENZO

LEWIS, DECEASED, WHO WAS THE

GEORGE WASHINGTO7, APPELLEE.

In the distribution of the estate of a deceased person, an assignment, to one of
the ,distributees, of a mortgage which is for a: greater sum than his distributive share, does not make him responsible to the executors for the difference between his share and the nominal amount of the mortgage, in case the
mortgaged premises sell for less than the amount of his share, where the
distributee has, with proper diligence, and in good faith, subjected the mortgaged property to sale, and has not bound himself absolutely for the nominal
sum..secured by the mortgage.
In7 the progress of the cause. G. W. Hammond also died, and his administratrix became a party; but the suit having been an amicable one, this did notdelay 'the proceedings. It is mentioned only because sometimeb the one and
sometimes the other is spoken of 'as the person interested.-

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

15

Hammond's Adm. v. Washingtons Exec.

Tnis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the b nited
States for the District of Columbig, holden in and for the county
of Alexandria.
The facts in the case were these.

General Mrashingt.on, by his will, executed in 1799, devised
all the rest and residue of his estate, real and personali not before

disposed of by said willto be sold by his executors,'at such time,.
in such manner, and on such credits, (if an equal, valid, and
satisfactory distribution -of the specific property could not .be
made without,) as- in their judgment should be most conducive
to the interest of the parties concerned; and the moneys arising
therefrom to be divided into -twenty-three equal parts.
On the 19th of July, 1802, the executors assembled the legatees,
with a view to consult them upon certain questions arising under
the will; and it was agreed that a certain portion of the personal
estate ghould be sold, another portion divided, a certain pqrtionr
of the lands divided, and the residue sold by the executors.
On the 6th of June, 18.03, a meeting of the devisees was held,
at which it was agreed that certain lands, lying on the eastern
waters, should be sold, and, if purchased by the devisees, such
purchaser should pay at three equal annual instalments with six
per cent., interest from. the day of sale, but to be credited with
his proportiot of the sales which had there been made, and
which were to be divided among the said devisees.
On the 7th of June, 1803, Burdett, Ashton, who was entitled,
in his own righit, and that of his sister, to two-thirds of a distributive share, purchased from the executors property belonging to
.the estate, for the sum of 09410 20 cents; payable, one-third "on
demand, one-third on the 7th of June, 1805, and one-third on the,
7th of. June, 1806.

On. the 12th of March, 1805, Ashton- mortgaged to the executors three tracts of lanid in Jefferson.county, Virginia, amounting
in the whole to one thousand and seventy-six acres, to secure the
payment of the purchase which he had iiade, as above stated.
On.the lth of March, 1806, the executors assigned the mortgage-to Thonas Hammond, who was entitled to a -full distributive share in right of his wife, and attached to the assignment
the following memorandum. " The exetutors are not to be
made. personally- liable, in any: respect, or. on any pretence,

16

SUPREME. COURT.
Hammond's Adf.

v. Washington's Exec.

wherein, for, or by reason of the above assignment, and further,
thb within named Burdett Ashton, Jr., his heirs, executors and
administrators, is to have credit for his proportion of $5179
5 cents, being the share of each legatee of said George Washington, of certain sales of rcal and personal estate made by the said
executors, as well as for the pioportion of the sister of the said
,Burdett, as her attorney in fact."
As it was thought that the distributive shares of the said Ashton and Hammond, when added together, would not quite exhausi the debt due from Ashton to the executors, the latter took
from Hammond, on the same day on which they made the assignment, a deed- by way of mortgage, in which it was stipulated
that Hammond should iiidembify the executors, and also should
pay to the executors whatever surplus might remain, after deducting Hammoild's and Ashton's' distributive shares from the
amount of Asht6n's debt to the executors.
On the 2d of April, 1806, Hammond, being indebted to Smith,
Calhoun & Co., of the city of Baltimore, in the sum of $5604 64
qents,
q
assigned to them all his 'ight to so much of the mortgaged
premises as would be sufficient to satisfy the sum aforesaid. As
speedily as possible, Smith, Calhoun & Co., obtained a decree in
the high Court of Chancery, in Virginia, to foreclose Ashton's
mortgage, who, at the time of such f6reclosure, was insolvent,
and died so. The result of such sale is thus stated in the opinion
of the Circuit Court, delivered in a subsequent stage of the cause.
The property mortgaged by Ashton, sold under decree for
(nett proceeds) $3908 46.
The debt of Ashton was - - -- --He had a right to retain - -.-----

---

The'real amount of Ashton's debt was -- -

-

-Hammond's claim was ---

$9410 20
3452 70
-

-

$5957 50
5179 05

Amount rec'd by Hammond's mort. to executors - $778 45
At some period between 1819 and 1823, the executors addressed a circular letter to each of the legatees, who had by this
time become Very numerous, expressing a 'desire to close their
-executorial duties, and stating that a difficulty existed in the
mode of calculating interest. They say, ",there are but two

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

17

Hammond's Adm. v. Washington's Exec.

modes by which our objects can be attained-a reference of the
accounts to arbitration, or a suit; the former we should prefer,
as most consonant with the injunction of our testator, if it were
not attended by insuperable difficulties, on account of the dispersed situation of the legat6es, who consequently could scarcely
be expected to agree upon the arbitrators; we therefore propose'
that the legatees should concur in instituting an amicable suit in
chancery against us, to which we will immediately file an answer, and obtain an order of reference to the. master, to adjust
and report the precise sum to which each legatee is entitled;
which being done, we can proceed with safety to pay such sums
as fast as the money comes to our hands."
In 182 , the legatees, in co.iformity with the above suggestion,
filed *a bill in the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia,
which the executors immediately answered, admitting the exist-,
ence of a balance to be distributed, and submitting to any decree
which the. court might think proper to pass. A special auditor
was appointed to state the accounts of the parties.
In 1825, the executors filed a cross bill, alleging that all the
parties were not in court, and praying that they might all be
brought in.. The proper proceedings were accordingly had as to
the absentees, and in 1826 the Circuit Court passed a.decree directing the sums to be paid to the several legatees, with the ex-'
ception of the administratrix of Th6mas Hammond and qf Burdett
Ashton. The auditor stated the account of Hammond upon two
.differentprinciples; in one, giving him credit for $5178 68-cents,
a distributive share, and charging him with $4006 24 cents, the
gross amount of the proceeds of the mortgage sale;, and bringing
the executors, in debt to Hammond upwards of $4000: in the
other, giving him credit for the same sum, but charging him with
the balance of the debt due by Ashton, bringing him in. debt toThe Circuit Court adopted
the executors upwards of $2000.
the latter, ahd decreed that the administratrix of Hammond
should pay to the executors the sum of $2158 56 cents, with
interest on $1127 27 cents, the principal sum due, from the 1st
day of June, 1824.
From which decree, the administratrix appealed to this court,
Coxe, for the.appellant.
Jones, for -the appellees.
n 2
VOL. I.-s

is

SUPREME COURT.
Hammond's Adm. v. Washington's Exec.

Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This is the case of an appeal from a dccree of the Circuit Court
of the United States, for the District of Columbia.
This suit was originally of an amicable character, and was
instiuted at the request of the executors of General George
Washington, by the legatees under his will, with'a view to a definitive settlement of the accounts of the executors and a distribution of the estate. Subsequently to its institution, " cross bill was
filed by the executors for the purpose of covering some of the
legatees, who had been omitted in the prior proceedings, and the
two causes were prosecuted and decreed upon as one suit. .The
facts out of which the questions now presented for consideration
have arisen, are substantially the following.
General Washington, after having disposed of a portion of his
estate, devised all the residue of his real and personal property to
be sold by his executors, if it could not be equally and satisfactorily divided, and directed the proceeds to be divided into
twenty-three equal shares, and distributed by shares and parts
of shares, amongst- twenty-nine persons named, and others not
named, but designated by -a collective description.
Amongst
those having an interest in .the estate was Mildred Hammon.d,
the wife of Thomas Hammond, in whose right the appellant
claims one share 6f the twenty-third-.part of the residue. After
a previous distribution by the exectitors of $7000, the amount
arising from further sales, and aremaining for distribution at the
commencement of this suit, was near '$120,000.
Several of the residuary legatees became purchasers at the sales
made by the executors, some for more, others for less than their
'shares or parts of shares to which they'were entitled. They gave
securities for.the amount of their -purchases, as other purchasers
would have been required to do, with an understanding that their
several shares of the estate, when ascertained, should be credited
against the sales respectively made to them.
,Among those legatees who purchased to an amount exceeding
their shares was Burdett Ashton, who was entitled to one-third
of one share.in his own right, and to one other third of a share
in right of a sister, together equal to two-thirds of one-twentythird or full share of thfe residuum subject to distribution. This
interest of Ashton was subsequently ascertained to be.$3425 20

JAiUARY

TERM. 1843.

19

Hammond's- Adm. v. Washington's Exec.
cents. He purchased-property in June, 1803, to the amount of
$9410 20 cents, payable in thr~e annual instalients; ahd for.
securixig this debt, with interest from the date, executed to the
executors a mortgage on the 12th day-of March, 1805.
Thomas Hammond (the husband of the legatee,*Mildred Himmond) obtained from the executors an assignment of the mortgage from Ashton for the $9410 20 cents, and executed to them
4n'obligation to. account for any surplus which hie might receive
from Ashton's mortgage, beyond the share of Mildred Hanm'ond,
amounting to $5179 50 cents. after crediting.Ashton with twothirds of a share to which he was entitled. The consideration
for the assignment to Hammond is stated to be "one dollar in
hand .paid, but principally on account" of the share.of his wife
in the residue of-General Washington's estate; and they bargain;
sell, and assign to the said Hammond, his heirs, &c., all the right,
title, interest., estate, claim, and demand of the executors to the
within-mentioned land and premises, and to the deed within
mentioned. At the foot of the assignment is a memorandum,
"that the executors are not to be personally liable in any respect,
'or on any, pretence, for or by reason of the above assignment,"
and further, "that the within named Burdett Ashton, his heirs,
&c., shall have credit for his proportion, and for the proportion.
.of his sister," in one share of the residuum of the.estate, &c.
Within less than a month after receiving an assignment from
the executors, Hammond assigned Ashton's mortgage to Smith,
Buchanan and Calhoun, in consideration of a debt due from him
to them. These last assignees" filed their -bill in the Supreme
Court of Chancery in Virginia, to foreclose Ashton's mortgage,
and to this bill the executors of Washington were- made parties
defendants. In their answqr these executors admit the interests
of Hammond and Ashton in the estate of their testator, the assignment by them to Hammond of Ashton's mortgage, and they
ask nothing on their own account except this, that as certain
funds of the estate upon the -basis of which Ashton's proportion.
had in part been calculated, might, turn out to be unavailable,
he, Ashton, -might be required to indemnify the executors against
such a contingency.
The settlement of Ashton's account having been by the Court"
of Chancery referred .to the master) a large balance was reported

20

SUPREME COURT.
Hammond's

Adm. v. Washington's Exec.

as due from Ashton on the mortgage, after allowing him a credit
for his own and his sister's shares df a legatee's proportion. The
court decreed a foreclosure of the mortgage, and a sale of the
mortgaged premises to raise the balance due from Ashton. The
sale made under the decree produced a sum considerably less
than the amount of the debt from Ashton to the executors of
Washington.
In the record in this cause are found accounts stated under
orders of the Circuit Court betyeen the executors of Washington and the distributees, under the will of their testator. In the
account of Burdett Ashton, after crediting him with the proceeds
of-the mortgage sale, a balance is struck against him of $6197 70.
The account with Hammond is stated under two aspects; under
the first, in which he is charged with the nett proceeds only, of
A&shton's mortgage, he is a creditor, by the sum of $4084 30
cents; 1.uier the second, in which Hammond is charged with the
entire balance due from Ashton, without regard to the actual
proceeds of the' mortgage, he is made a debtor. The Circuit
Court, upon the hearing of this cause, being of the opinion that
Hammond was absolutely bound to the executors of General
Washington for whatever amount the mortgage debt of Ashton
exceeded the share of Mrs. Hammond as a legatee, hbtwithstand-'
ing the failure of the mortgaged premises to produce the amount
of the debt for which they were pledged; decreed, in conformity
with the second statement of the master of Hammond's account,
(No. 11,) that the administratrix of Hammond, out of the assets
in her hands to be administered, should pay to the executors of
George Washington the sum of $2158 56 cents, the balance appearing to be due to them by statement No. 11, with interest
on $1027 27 cents, the principal sum due from the 1st day of
June, 1824.
The basis of the above decree of the Circuit Court, and it is
the foundation on which the argument for the appellees has been
conducted, iff the assumption, that Hammond, in taking an assignment of Ashton's mortgage from the executors of Washington,.
undertook to guaranty the sufficiency of 'the mortgage subject
to extinguish the amount for which that subject was pledged, and
bound himself absolutely to be accountable for that entire sum.
It is difficult to reconcile such a course on the part of Ham-

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

21

Hammond's Adm. v. Washington's Exec.

mond with rules of common prudence or probability, nor can a
claim to power in the executors to make such an exaction upon
Hammond be viewed as consistent with fairness, or as called for
by any obligation incumbent upon these executors. Hammon.
knew, when he took the assignment of Ashton's mortgage, that
he was entitled to $5179 50 cents, admitted by the executors to
be in their bands, or within their control. This is apparent, and
is expressed both in the memorandum required by the executors
to be appended to their assignment of Ashton's mortgage, and in
the separate instrument of indemnity executed to the executors
by Hammond, upon his receiving that assignment. Under such
circumstances, what rational inducement could exist on the part
of Hammond for binding himself for the solvency of Ashton, or
for substituting himself with the executors as a debtor in Ashton's place? Th6 court can perceive no such inducement, nor
can recognise any right in the executors to require -any thing of
this kind, with a full knowledge, on their part, of Hammond's
interest in the estate, and with an admitted fund in, their hands
for its satisfaction. They had no power to impair in any degree
his claim upon them, nor to impose a mean for its payment, less
certain and safe than the assets acknowledged 1,y them to be
adequate. It is laid down by the Circuit Court, a:d insisted on
in the argument here, that the terms of ihe assignment to Hammond, as well as those of the instrument of indemnity given to
the executors upon receiving that assignment, constitute an
agreement that Hammond should be unconditionally bound for
Ashton's debt. We have shown that this conclusion is in accordance neither with prudence nor probability, in the transactions of life-that it was not sustained by-any duty, or even by
fairness,on the part of the executors; let us see how far it is
warranted by the language of the instruments referred to as
amounting to express and positive contract. In the written assignment to Hammond, this is the language used: "Have bargained, sold, assigned, &c., all the right, title, &c., in and to the
within-mentioned land and premises, and the deed within, mentioned," &c. Such terms were indispensable in that assignment,
in order to give to Hammond .control of the mortgage, either for
its enforcement in his own behalf or for its transfer to others:
nothing is said, in terms, in this assignment, about the debt in-

22

SUPREME COURT.
Hammond's Adm. v. Washington's Exec.

tended to be secured by the mortgage, neither in relation to any
full equivalent for it, received by Hammond, which should bind
him for it in loto, nor in relation to any entire and absolute transfer of it by the executors; and this surely was the place in
which such terms, or donditions, if they really belonged to the
contract; should have been expressed. The view here presented
is fortified by the instrument of indemnity executed. by Hammond to the executors contemporaneously.with the assignment by
the latter to hint of Ashton's mortgage. This instrument. of indemnity, after reciting that the executors had assigned, &c.,'a
deed due them from Ashton, specifying no sum, no debt in numeris; after reciting too that Ashton was entijled to a portion
of the assets, proceeds thus: "And whereas it is supposed that
the amount of the said debt due from Burdett Ashton, after mak.ing the discounts aforesaid, to which he may be entitled, will exceed the said.sum of $5179 50 cents, due to the said Thomas
Hammond, as agreed; for which excess, the said Thomas Hammond is willing to give security; 4ow if the said Thomas Hammond shall well and truly pay, &c., such sum as the debt due
from the said Burdett Ashton, shall exceed," &c. * This portion
of the instrument, beginning, "whereas it is supposed that the
amount of the debt due from Ashton, after making the discounts
to which he is entitled," &c. forcibly elucidates the meaning andobjects of the parties to that contract. The amount of Hammond's interest in the estate, the amount too of Ashton's debt
to the executors, and of the portion claimed in his own right, and
in right of his sister, were all known. With regard to these, then,
there was no uncertainty. The supposition, therefore, expressed
in this instrument could have no applicability to matters thus
ascertained; that supposition could have been designed to apply
only to the contingency of the mortgage subject producing a
sum greater than the distributive share. of Hammond in the
estate; in which event, he was to be responsible for the excess,
and for nothing beyond it. This provision cannot be correctly
interpreted as binding Hammond, however inadequate the mortgage subject might prove to meet his share of the assets, to carry
into thd" estate and pay to the executors a sum he never hadreceived, and which, from the nature of things, he could not possibly receive; in other words, to pay to these executors his own

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

23

Hammond's Adm. v. Washington's Exec.

money. Upon taking an assignment of Ashton's mortgage,
Hammond was bound for good: faith and ordinary diligence in
prosecuting it. These obligations appear to have been fulfilled,
for the executors who were made parties to the suit for foreclosure take no exception to any thing that had been done or
omitted in reference to the security they had transferred.
This court, therefore, while it will not decree against the execu.tors the difference between the proceeds of Ashton's mortgage
and the distributive share of Hammond, as stated in the report
of the master, is very clear that Hammond can upon no correct
principle be held responsible to the executors for the difference
between those same pro.ceeds and the amount of-the debt due
from Ashton, which the mortgage was designed to secure; and
that in decreeing against the administratrix of Hammond for
that difference, .the Circuit Court has committed an error for
which its decree should be reVersed.
This court doth accordingly reverse the decree of the Circuit
Court,:with costs, and remand this cause thereto, to be proceeded
in conformably to the principles of this decision.
ORDER.

-This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States.for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria, and was
argued by counsel. On 'consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered, adjudged, and decreed by'this court, that the decree of
the'said Ciiciiit Court, in this cause, be and the same is hereby
re vdrsed wit'." costs, arid that this cause be and the same is
fiereby remande'd to the said Circuit Court, with directions to proceed therein conformably to the opinion of this court.

