. -SUPREME COURT.

JAMES WILLIAMS, PLAINTrF m:.ERROR, V. THE UNITED STATES, DEPENDANTS IN ERROR.

The act of Congress passed January .31st, 1823, prohibiting the advance of
public money in any case whatsoever to the disbursing offic.ers of government, except under the special direction of the President, doesnot require the
personal and iministerial performance of this duty, to be exercised in every
instance by tie President under his own hand.
Such a practice, if it were possible, would absorb ihe duties of the various'departments of the government in the personal -actiQn of the one chief executive officer, and be fraught with mischief to the public service.
The President's duty, in general, requires his superintendence of the.administration, yet he cannot be required to become the administrative officer of
every department and bureatr, br to perform in person the numerous details
incident to services, which, nevertheless, he is, in a correct sense, by the
Constitution and laws required and expected to perform.
It is legal evidende that the President specially authorized and directed, in -writing, the secretary of the Treasury to make such advances, and that such
paper was destroyed, when -the Treasury building -was burned. It is sufficient if the witness states his belief that it was so destroyed. The case in,
9 Wheat. 486, examined and confirmed.
The dockets and records of a court, showing that money had been,Aeceived-by
the marshal or.his deputies, undbr executions, are good* evidence, in a suitagainst his securities. The acts of the'court must, in the first instance, hepresumed to be regular, and in confprmity with settled usage; and are conclusive until reversed by a competent authority..

THsS case came up by writ of errdr from the Circuif Court of.
the United States -f6r the District of Columbia-.olden in.and:for
the county of Washington.
The facts were these:
On' the 4th of Fe*bruary, 1831i Henrjr AshtQu was appointed
marshal of the District of Columbia, and on the 7th executeda bond for, the faithful peiformarice of the duties,'by himself and
his deputies. There were several secixities, among whom was

James Williams, the plainiiff in' error.

He remained In bffice

until the 28th of February, 1834.
In June, 1835, the United States brought suit upon the bond,
to which there was a plea of performance.
The replication
assigned five breaches. 1. That he had neglected to return executions issued for fines and costs. 2. That le had discharged
persons committed to his custody under execution. 3. That he
had ntt accounted for fines paid. 4. That he had hot accounted

J-ANUARY TERA,
Williams v. Th

I

.

291

-United States.

for money advanced to him by the secretaxy'bf-the 'Treasury
under the.spemial direction of the President of the United States;.
and, 5. That he had discharged persons from- prisonwithfit authority of. law. To this replication, there were a rejoinder and
issues, -nd in 1839 the case wastried. The verdict of the jury
was fof the United States.' The two -bills of exception taken at
the trial aie set forth"in the opinion o the court, and need -not be
repeated.
Bradley;,for the plaintiff in error.
Legar , attorney-general, for the United States.
Bradley made the following points:
1. The Pregident of the United States holds a relation-toward
the secretafy of the-Treasury different from.that which he holds
toward the head of any other depariment.
2. No money can be draw.n from the Treasury but in the manner and upon the vouchers designated by law.
3. Where a special discretion is given by positive law to the
President to direct money appropriated by law to be paid out
of the Treasury, it must be exercised by him alone, and cannot
be delegated.
4. Where money is by l?.w to be drawn from the Treasury by
a special authority,. different from the usual manner, that special
authority must be deposited in -the Treasury Depar.tment,.'and
form part in the settlement of the Treasury account.
5. And' The Treasury transcript is not evidence per se to
charge a surety with money so paid to his principal; but must be
accompanied 'by a copy of the voucher on which such payment
was made.
To support them, he rgued that the United States were bound
to show the exercise of the special power vested in the Presideift.
The'.Treasury -transcript is not conclusive evidence that 'the
money was drawn from the Treasury legally. .5 Peters, 292;
8 Peters, 375. - Evidence of the contents of the order said to
have been given by the President could not be , eceived, as there
was no proof of its loss. 2 Stark. Ev. 350. .Court say, in 1 Peters, 596, that proof mu§t be given of its loss, and that it was
searched for. -ifthe money was not *placed with the marshal
according to law, the United States cannot recover.'

"292

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. The United States.

As to thesecond exception :.
The declarations of the maishal do not bind the sureties; hot
evidence unless in the regular course of his business, and he.'had
n6thing to do with the docker. If an endorsement be made on
the writ, it is his official act, but not otherwise. 3 JBro. and
Bing. 132..
The act- of Maryland, February, 1777, c. 13, see. 2, provides
for the recovery of common law fines by fieri fa ias or ca. sa.,
but the*act of 1797," c. 74, directs capias ad satisfaciendurh
to be issued for all fines. Here'were ft. fa. for common law
fines, which proceeding~was contrary to law. 'The act of if794,
c. 54, provides remedies against the sheriT and, of course, the
marshal; judgment should have been entered up against him.
No action on the bond until a judicial sentence of default

18 Johns. 391.
Legarg,for the United States.
If the President.could not delegate this 'power, he could do
little else but look at marshal's accounts. But this court have
recognised, the authority to delegate. Wilcox 'v. Jackson, 13 Peters; 10 Peters, 291; 1 Peters, 296.
As to the evidence: The court has allowed reasonable evidence to be given.. 7 Peters, 99; 12 Peters, 3.
As to the Maryland practice:
The general rule is, that an admission of a deputy does not
bind surety; but see 10 Barn. and Cres. 17, 317. In this case
the party is dead, and it is his declaration against his own interest. But the acts of parties, part of the res gesta, are binding.
8 Wheat. 326; 3 Wash. C. C. R. 369. The confession of an
under-sheriff evidence against the sheriff. 1 Lord Raym. 190.
At common law, fi. fa. could issue for fines. 3 Coke, 12, b; 2 Just.
19. The act of Maryland was merely directory. Inventory of
sheriff evidence between. other parties. Buller's N. P. 249; 2
Campb. 379.
Bradley, in conclusion:
The act of 1809, c. 199, gives the President power to transfer
appropriations; but no one suppioses he can delegate this power
to the secretary. In Kendall's case, 12 Peters,, the court draw a

JANUARY TERM, i843.

293

Williams v. The United States..

distinction between general and special powers. General'rule is,
that discretionary powers cannot be delegated.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
'This cause comes up on a writ Pf error to the' Circuit Court of the Uhited States for the District of Columbia..
The deferdants in. error instituted an action of debt in the
Circuit Court against the plaintiff in error, as.surety for:Henry
Ashton, deceased, late marshal of the District of Columbia, in a
bond executed by"Ashton, conditioned for, the faithful perform-'.
ance of the duties of his office: On oyer of'the bond, the defendant pleaded generally conditions performed by the marshal
and his deputies; 'after this plea various breaches of the condition
ofthe bond were specially assigned,- charging the late marshal
with failing .to account for moneys advanced to him by the secretary of the Treasury, under special dfrection of the President of
the United States; with not having accounted. for and paid over
moneys received by him and his deputies on executions, and with
having failed to collect under executions which came to his hands,
moneys that .he ought to have collected from persons who were
solvent.
Issues. were taken to the country. upon the several
breaches 'thus assigned,, and the jury erhpanaelled to' try 'those
issues,-returned as their verdict. in-substance, that the said'Henry
Ashton; by- himg6lf and his deputies, did not-,well and faithfully
perform and fulfil all the duties 'of his office bf. narshal of the
district, in. piur'uanc. of the acts of Congress in such cases made
and provided; and they found the surm of-$827q g5" cents, with
interest Thereon from the 24th dayof November, 1836, to be really
afnd justly due--to'the United States on the marshal's bond. . Upon
.this verdict the Court gave7a judgment for. 20,000,-the penalty
or the bond, but to be disoharged by the' amount assessed by the
jury, together with the costs of suit.
At the trial, and before the jurors withdrew from the bar,
the defendant below tendered two -bills of. exceptions to the.
ruling of-the court in the cause, which bills of exceptions are as
follow:
-Defendant's first bill of exceptions.-On the- trial of this cause,
the plaintiffs, to- support the issues joined, on their part, offered to
give in evidence the accounts settled between the United States
2

B2

294

SUPREME COUR.
•Williams.

.'The"United.States.

and Henry Ashton, late marshal of the District of Columbia, upon
whose official bond this a&ion is brought against the defendant,
as one of the sureties therein named. By these accounts it appears, that a balance appears'due from the said Ashton to the
United States, of $6455. 16. That in making up the said balance,
various sums of money were, from time to time; during his continuance in office, advanced and paid to him, as marshal as
aforesaid, out of the Treasury of the United States, by order of
the secretary of the Treasury, before the said Ashton, as marshal,
had rendered accounts or vouchers, showing, that he had himself
advanced and paid the same, or any part thereof, to those entitled
by law to receive the same; and while balances -for moneys pre-.
viously advanced to him existed on the books of the department,
and before it had been shown that the -same had been properly
applied and expended, and when the said sum. of $6455 16, was
not in fact due from the United 'States for any services rendered
or money expended.
And the plaintiffs offered in evidence the statements of Asbury
•Dickins, formerly a clerk in the Treasury Department, and of
McClintock Young, now chief clerk of said department; which,
.reserving all objections- to the competency of such testimony, it
was agreed should be received as if said parties had been sworn
in the ease, and had testified in accordance with said statements.
To the admissibility of all which testimony the defendant objects,
but the court overruled the objection, and the defendant, by his
counsel, excepts; and the said evidence being thus admitted to go
to the jury, the counsel for the plaintiffs prayed the court to instruct the jury, that upon this evidence the plaintiff "was entitled
to recover'the said suim of $6445 16, against the defendant; and
the court overruling the objection of the defendant thereto, gave
said instruction, to which the defendant excepts; and the court,
in pursuance of the statute, sign and seal this bill of exceptions to
all the matters so ruled, as aforesaid, this lth day of January,
1840.
W. CRANCH,
[L. S.]

B. THRUSTON,

[L. s.]

JAmEs S. MORSELL. [L. s.]

Second bill of exceptions.-In the further trial of this cause,
the plaintiffs produced the dockets and records of this court, showing that in i number of cases where judgment had been entered

JANUARY TERM., 1843.

295.

Williams ". The United States.

against. defendants ior common law fines,'forfeitures, and costs,
adjudged agains(the said defendants, and the said defendants had
paid the said amounts, so espectively adjudged again.st them, to
the marshal, ahd entries were thereupon. made by the said marshal or his deputy, on the dockets of said courts, "*money made
and ready," "money paid," and that the amounts so'received by
said marshal amounted t6 the sum of
And the plaintiffs further proved by the dockets, -records, &c.,
as aforesaid, that certain sums of money were adjudged by the
court aforesaid, against-certain defendants, for qommon law fines,
forfetures, and costs,.upon which writs of ca. sa. were 'issued,
which writs were ieturned by the marshal, "1§atisfied marshal,"
and showed that the said sums so received by said Ashton,
amounted to
And the defendant objected to -the said several amounts as
being. recoerable.-in this action against the said defendant, and
prayed the court to instruict the jury that he was not liable there'for; but the court Tefused o to instruct the jury, and instructed
them that the defendant was liable for the amounts so -received
by said Ashton:.
To which refusal the defendant, by his counsel, excepts, and
prays the c6urt to.sign and seal this bill 'of exceptions, which is
done accordingly, this 11th dav of Janu'ary, 18.40..
W. CAN ,
[.. s.]
*JAMES S. MO!RSELL. [L.

s.]

The staternnts ofAsbury Dickins and McClintock Young, rein th following words:
ferred to in the"first bill of'exception's,
.WashingtonjJanuary 11, 1840.
DEAR SI :-In compliance with your request, I now state, as.
-

I mentioned. to you verbally, some time agod, that it is within my
recollection that soon after the passing-of the 4"act (of the 3-1st of
January, 1823,) concerning the disbursement of public money,"
the secretary of the .Treasury was specially authorized and directed in writing, by the President of the United States, to make such
advances of money, from time to time, to various classes of the
disbursing officers of the government, and among others to the
marshals of the United States, as should be found necesary, to
the faithful and prompt discharge of their respective duties, and

296

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v.., The United States.

to the fulfilment of the public engagements. The papers ctntaining these direction6 of the President were, as I believe, destroyed in-the late burning 'of the Treasury building.
I am, dear sir, sincerely yours,
AsBURy DIC-UNS.
-To

Frandsi S. Key, .Esq,, 4.c. 4-c. 4-c

DEAR. SiR :--In reply to your inquiry, I have to state, that all
-advances -to marshals U. S. are made by the secretary of the
Treasury; and not by.direction of the accounting officers.
Yours'resp'y,
MeC. YOUNG.
11th Jranuary,1840.

. S. Key,. Esq.
The .qpestions presented. for considejation here upon the aforegoing'bills of' exceptions, and the proofs to which 'they refer are
these: 1.' Whether the.sums of m'oney placed in the hands of the
late marshal by the secretary of the Treasury, and Ijorming a
part of the aggregate foun'd bythe verdict of the, jury, were so
advanced in conformity with the law, -as to create a liability on
the part of the sureties of the marshal for their proper aiplication
by that 6fficer? . and
.2: Whether th several suns admitted' to have been.paid to
the marshal upon executions for. fines, forfeitures, and costs adjudged against'varibus defendants, and as to a part of which sums
the marshal or his deputy had made upon "the dockets of the
court,", the following entries, "money- made and'ieady" and
"money paid;" and as to other portions of which levied on executions for fines and forfeitures, the marshal had made on the executions them selves this entry, " satisfied Marshal," were'so proved
to have been received'by the marshal in virtue of his office, as to
r6nder his sureties responsible for these latter-sums ?
Under the first of these inquiries, it is contended for the plaintiff in error, that -the act of Congress of-January 31,1823, expressly
prohibits the advancing of public money in any-case whatsoever,.
except under the special direction of the Presidiutito the disbursing officers of the government, fdr Ahe faithful and prompt discharge of their public duties, and to the fulfilment of the*public
faith- and it is insisted upon as the correct interpretation of this
statute, that the power thereby vested- to make advances for the

3ANUARY TERM,. 1843.

297

Williams v. The United States.

public service, is not one appertaining to the offitce of President,
but is an authority strictly personal and ministerial, to be exercised. in every instance only by the individual himself, by his own
hand, and never in any respect to be delegated. Such an interpretation of the law this court can by no means admit. Whil'
it has been doubtless the object of Congress to secure economy
and re'gularity in public disbursements, and for that end to limit,
as far as was proler, the discretion of subordinate agents over the
public money, it never can be. reasonable to ascribe to them a.
conduct which must defeat every beneficial end they could. have
in view, and render the government an absolutely impracticable
machine. -The President's duty in general, requires his superintendence of the administration; yet this duty cannot reqluire of
him to become'the administrative officer of every department and
bureau, or to perform in person the numerous details incident to
services, which, nevertheless, he is, in a correct sense,-by the Constitution and laws required and expected to perform. This cannot be, 1st, Because, if it were practicable, it would be to absorb
the duties and responsibilities of the various departments of the
government in the personal action of the one chief executive
officer. It cannot be, for the stronger reason, that it. is impracticable-nay, impossible. The position here assumed may be illustrated in the single example of a marshal. This officer has
various. duties to perform, which,. though well understood, yet all
of them, as to duration and extent, contingent, and varying, of
courge, as to the quafitum of expense attending their performance.
He is to summon and pay grand and petit juries and. witnesses;
to provide stationery and fuel for the court; guards for the transportation and safe-keeping..of- prisoners; to pay the, per diem
allowed to'clerks and attorneys, and other incidental charges. If
,the argument-for the plaintiff in"
error be correct, it would be indispensable either that the.President should 'ascertain (and that
too .before their performance, or, in other words, their existence)
these indefinable services, and,. when so ascertained, that he,
under his own hand, and rione othef, should give special written
instructions for the payment of each one of them; or that the
marshal'should, upon credit, or from his own private resources,
obtain the performance of theseservices, and await his reimbursement upon accounts to be subsequently allowed and cerVOL. I.-39

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. The United States.

tified by the cou't. Such consequences, so fraught with mischief
to the public service, utterly forbid the construction of the law
contended for by the plaintiff in error. If it be asked, How then
shall the provisions and the purposes of the statute be fulfilled?
the answer is obvious, and satisfies at once the meaning, of the law and. the public exigencies. Average estimates may be formed
of the expenses incident to the courts, and instructions may be
given by the President to the secretary of the Tre,4sury to make
adances from time to time, either upon the basis of those estimates, or upon statements or requisitions made by the marshals
themselves, showing the necessity of advances to meet the public
service. And this plain and only feasible mode of complying
with the law appears to have been adopted and to have become
the settled .usage of the government, as is shown by the testimony
of Asbury Dickins, admitted by the parties to be received as if
taken upon oath. It is insisted, however, that if this' interpretation of the statute be the true.one, still a compliance with its requirements has not been shown; thatneitfier is an order from the
President to the secretary of the'Treasury nor the copy of such
an order produced-; nor is the absence of both or either of these
so accounted for as to authorize the admission of inferior evidence
to supply their place. "How stands this objection? Dickins,
formerly a clerk in the Treasury Department, states it to be a fact
"within his recollection; that soon after the passing of the act of
January 31, 1823, concerning the disbursement of the public
money, the secretary of the Treasury was specially authorized
and directed in writing, by the President of the United States, to
make such advances *of money, from time to time, to variousclasses of disbursing officers of the governmeIt, and among
others to the marshals, as should be found necessary to the faithful and prompt discharge of their respective duties, and to the
fulfilment of the public engagements. The papers containing
these directions of the President were, as he believes, destroyed
in the late burning of the Treasury building." The general principle as to-the admissibility of secondary evidence is familiar to
all, and will receive no comment from the court; but we will
simply inquire.whether the facts here shown do not present a
case falling within the operation of that principle? What does
.Dickins prove? 1st, The existence of the special written- instruc-

JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

299

Williams v. The United States.

tion from the President, made expressly to carry into effect the
law of 1823, and forming the established rule and usage of the
department; 2d, The conflagration of the Treasury Department,
the legal and .proper. depository for this instruction; and, 3dly,
The beliefof'the witness, then a clerk in the Department, and,
by consequence, to a great extent cognisant of its arrangement

and condition, that the document was destroyed in that conflagration. Authorities need not be multiplied to show that the
case- before us is completely within the rule respecting secondary
evidence; a single decision of this court will be cited, as placini
that matter wholly beyond controversy. In Riggs v. Tayloe,
9 Wheat. 486, the court, after laying down the general rule, proceeds thus: "It is contended that the affidavit is defective; not
being sufficiently certain and positive as to the loss of the particular writing. The affiant only. states his impression that be tore it
up; and if he did not tear it up, it has become lost or mislaid;
that this is in the alternative, and not certain and positive. We
do not-concur in this reasoning. An impression is an image fixed
in the mind; ii is belief; and believing the.paper in questioi was
destroyed has been deemed sufficient to let in'the secondary evidence." The testimony of Dickins appears to this court much
more direct upon the point than that admitted in the case of Riggs
v. Tayloe: we consider it as fully justifying oral proof of the contents of the instrument to which it related, and as establishing the
character and import of that instrument, as well as the usage
founded thereupon; and upon this fact of the usage, Dickins is
corroborated by the testimony of Young, the chief clerk in the
Treasury Department at the time of the trial.In considering the second exception made by the defendant, it
may -be remarked that the grounds of the -exception are not
stated with that distinctness and precision necessary to clear it
entirely of obscurity- still the statement is thought to contain
enough to 'guide the court to a correct solution of the question
involved. The second bill of exceptions sets forth that the plaintiffs produced the dockets and'records of the court, shoxxing that
in a number of cases where judgments had been entered against
'defendants for common law fines, forfeitures, and costs, and the
said defendants had paid the amounts so respectively adjudged
against them to the marshal, and em ,es were made by the, said

300

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. The United States.

marshal or his deputy, on the said dockets, "money made and
ready,' "money paid;" aPd that the amounts so, received
amounted, &c. And again: The plaintiffs further proved by the
dockets, records, &c., that certain sums of money were adjudged
by the court against certain defendants for fines, forfeitures, &c.,
upon which judgments 'rrits of ca. sa. were issued, Which writs
were returned by the marshal, "satisfied marshal," and showed
that the said sums amounted, &c. In the evidence set forth upon
the face of theke exceptions, nothing particular is disclosed relative to the modes of proceeding on executions, or of the means
in practice by the court for recording and preserving the evidence
of such proceedings, or of the acts and returns of the officers
who may be charged with the management of final process; of
course nothing is adduced to impeach.the regularity of the ieception by the court, of the returns and entries made by the marshal,
or of the manner of placipg them permanently upon the archives
of the court. But it isadmitted in the exception, that all these
things are appareut on the records, viz.: The judgments and
executions; the receipt of the money by the marshal, and his admissions of the receipt therecf, both by himself and his deputies.
These facts are conceded to be parts of the records of the court
to which the officer properly belonged, and before which his
conduct .was regularly cognisable: a tribunal in all respects competent to pass upon his acts; competent to fashion its records,
and to preserve the evidences of its own proceedings and of the
acts of 'its officers. The acts of this court, then, must, in the first
instance, be presumed to be regular, and in conformity with settled usage; and they dre conclusive ,until they shall be reversed
by a competent power, and.upon a case properly made. Upon
both the ins tructions-given and excepted to, in this cause, we approve the opinion of the Circuit Court, and therefore affirm the
same.
ORDER.

This cause came on to .be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of .the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,-it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said
Circtuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed.

