JANUARY TERM, 1843.
Bell etal.

169

v. Bruen.

litigation at the time, which had been allowed to sleep for almost
twenty years, and for which'it does. not even appear that he paid.
And as-to all of the creditors
any valuable consideration.
named in the schedule, they had originally an easy and simple
remedy in their own hands, to be used or not'at their own pleasure; and if they have suffered it t6 be lost by the lapse of time,
their own negligence can give them-no right to call into action
the powers of the Court of.Chancery.
The decree of the Circuit Court must therefore be reversed,
and the bill dismissed with-costs.
-. ORDER.

This cause came on*to be heard *on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the- United States for the District of

Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria, and
was argued by 'counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and decreed by this -court, that the decree of the'said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is .hereby re-.
versed,'with'costs; and that this cause be and the same is hereby
remanded to the -said. Circuit Court, with directions to dismiss-

the bill of the complainant with costs.

1isrs C; BELL AND ROBERT GRANT, PLAINTiFFs IN "ERROR, V. MAT-"

THXAs BREN.
A letter of guarantee, written in the United States, and addressed to a house in
England, must be construed according io-the la'ws of that country.
Extrinsic evidence'may be used to ascertain the true impori of such an agreement, and its construction is matter of law for the court. 'In bonds, with conditions 'or the 'pertormance of duties, preceded by recitals,
the undertaking, although general in -its terms, is limited by the recital.
Commercial letters are not to be construed upoi the sarie- principles as bonds,
but ought to receive a fair and reasonable interpietation according to the
true import of the terms; to what is fairly to be presumed to have been the
•understanding of the parties; and the presumption is to be ascertained from
the fa6ts' and circumstances accompanying the entire transaction.
The court will not*express an opinion upon a-matter of defence which.was not
-brought to the consideration of theicqurt below.

VOL. .-

22

P

.170

SUPREME COURT.
Bell et al. v. Bruen.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court for the'distriet of New York.
The plaintiffs in this. court, who were also plaintiffs below,
were merchants and partners, tfading under the name and firm
of -Bell and Grant,'dnd resided. in London. The action was
brought to recover the value of five several sets of bills of ex.change, amounting respectively tb e385, X318 12s. 6d., £1500,
z140, and £3500,'which, it was alleged, were guarantied -by the
defendant.
At the trial of the case in the Circuit Court, the defendant
pleaded non-.assumpsit and the statute of limitations; but the
questions arising under the latter plea were not argued, as the opinion of (he court, upon the guarantee, was against the plaintiffs.
The' facts of the case, according to the 6vidence, were as follow.:I
"Prior to the year 1830, George W. and
H. Bruen, two sons of
the defendant, had been carrying on commercial business under
the partnership name of G.W. and H. Bruen, in the city of New
York. In. that year they failed, and William H. Thorn succeeded
to the busiless of the house; George W. Bruen, "oneof the fdr-"
mer parthers, being interested in the business of the said Thorn.
'In the year 1831, George W. Bruen also transacted business
at New York; in the name of his f(ather, the defendant. There
was no regular, established house in the name of the *dfenddnt,
although subsequently adventures.were conducted in his name.
This agency was carried on under two very extensive powers
of attorneyj which were duly.recorded, in New York, thkoughout
the years 1891-2-3-4, and part of 1835, when tfie defendant
was preparing to go to, Europe, and the powers
of attorney were
'revoked.
Early in the year 1831, Thorn had"credits fdrnished to him by
Bell and Grant, upon housbs in Trieste, Messina, Leghorn, and
Marseilles. On the 23d February, 1831, he wrote to Bell and
Grant,.afid an-6ng other-things said, "Myfriends in Marseills
might secure'many consignments for me, if I could put them in
a situatioT 6o make the necessary advances, and I therefore hope.
- 'ou will oblige md by openiig- the credit I ask for, and,: if you
require it, Mr. M. Bruen will give you his'guiantee. I.enclose
a lettei for Messrs. Arphias "aid Co., which you will' forward to

JANUARY

-LERM, 1843..

171

Bell et a]. v. Bruen.
them, shlould you think proper to-open the credit; otherwise,-I
do not wish you to send it, as it relaies entirely to this credit, and
the manner in which the advances are to be made; it is underI stood, that no more than e2000 are' to be drawn for at any one
time, and that the credit is theil to be considered at an end, until
your dr.inces are covered by remittances from me, when you
will again renew it."
On the 29d of M~rch, 1831, Bell and Grant ackrnowledged the
receipt of the abbve, by a letter irom which .he 'following is -an
egtract: "/We.b ave received, since the aboveyour letter of the
.3d ult./with.an enclosure for'Messrs. Archias and Co., of Marseilles, which we forward to them to-day, with a confirmation of
o2000,
for the
the credit you give them upon us to the amountof
purpose of -making advances on consignments, and which we
will accordingly thank ,you .to have -guarantied to us, as you. propose, by Mr. Matthi'as Bruen."
On the 23d April, 1831, Mr. Matthias Bruen, the defendant,
wrote the following letter to Bell and Grant:
"New York, 23d .pril, 1831.
SIR,-Our mutual friend, Mr. Win. H. Thorn, has in"DEmAI
.formed me, that he has a credit for M200, given by you in his
favour with Messrs. Archias and Co., to give facilities to his bilsiness at Marseilles. In expressing my obligations to you for the
continuation of your friendship to this gentleman, I take occasion to state, that you may consider this, as well as any and every
other credit you may open ih his favour, as being under my
guarantee."
On the. same day, the 23d of April, Thorn wrote to Bell and
Grant a letter, from which the following is an extract: "Enclosed you will find Mr. M. Bruen's guarantee, and as you are
now fully secured in any credit you may open for me, I hope
ybu will consider onthe propriety of allowing me to make insurance here on any goods that may be shipped for my account."
On the lmth- June, 1831, Bell and Grant acknowledged the
receipt of Bruen-s letter as follows:
"MATTHIAS" BRUEN, Esq., Xew, York-.-We are in ieceipt of
your favour of the 23d April,-guarantying thie credit opened on
behalf of Mr. W. *H. Thorn, with Messrs.. Archias and Co., of.
Marseilles, for 200o, for the purpose.of facilitating his business

17W -

SUPREKE COURT.
Bell et-al. v. Bruen.

with that place, and moreover, desiring us to.congider, as. under
youi guarantee, also, all credits existing, or that we may hereafter Open for said friend, of which we take due note. And we
irust that Mr. Thorn, as well as your good self, -will have every
reason to'be satisfied with the confidence which -we feel. a pleasure in assigning to both of you."
It was given in evidence that 'from 1831 to 1837, Thorn, by
means of the credits opened . for him at various places, received
consignments from those places, upon which advances had been
made, and sent remittances,.from time "to time, to Bell and Grant,
in London.
On the 3d of March, 18S4, -Thorn wrote.to Bell and Grant-as
follow.; "I have informed Messrs. R. Andefson and Co. and
Messrs. Archias and Co. that the. times are. such as to render consignments no longer desirable, which I hope will reach them in
time to prevent any further draft.on voil."
On the 7th of March, 1834, Bell aMd Grant.wrote to Thom,
"We beg your reference to the foregolug topy of our -letter of
yesterday, and have only at present.to. add thereto an -extract of
what we.write to-day, (while communicating wiih them on other
business,) to Messrs. Archias and Co.,'of Marseilles, recommending their refraining from pressing shipments to you on consignment, until the state of 'commercial inktters in'the United States
shall make business more acceptable than, under the recent circumstances, we may presume it would be to you.
"We trust thai the next accounts from your side will be less
gloomy, and may enable us,-aswe shall most readily do in such
case, to place business for you on its former footing."
On the 24th April,. 1834, Thorn wrote 'to Bell and Giant: "I
have read what you have been pleased to write to Messrs. Ar
cbias & Co.'on the subject of consignments under advances, whichmeets 'my warmest approbation, as you will have -seen by my
letter of.March 3d,"
Ornthe 21st of October, 1834. Belland -Grant wrote to Thorn:
"Messrs. Archias & Co.,, of Marseilles, having inquired of us,
under date '9th inst., whether you had opened a credit in their
favour upon us, to make advances on shipments to your aqdress
as you had - mentioned to them as your intention of d6ing, and
adding that they did so in copsequence of-the prospect they then

JANUAR Y TERIM, 1843.
Bruen.
Bell ,et al. v..

hiad of influencing a consignment t6 you; we.told them, by return of post, that, although we should b~e reidy at any time to
cenfirm any skich arrangement, and were yet without your autherity to that effect, they might consider themstlves at liberty to
value upon us for your account to the extent of ;2OOO sterling,
on handing us the customary shipping documents, (a we would.
have beenisorry to see such ..business pass your door for want of
the facilities'ia question,) expressing a hope at the same time that
they would only grant such advances on.property, the sa'l.e of
which, they felt assured by their latest advices, would be of ready
sale in the New York market; all of which we trustrill meet
yourentire dpprobkttion. We should have extended -the '.credit
in question to the former sum of R3000, but that -for the present
we conceived you would b6 better pleased with the lesser amount;
you have, however, only to let us know your wishes in this respect to insure our conformity thereto."
Oh the -31st October, 1834, Thorn wrote.to Bell and Grant: "1'
haveto request that you *ill open the folrowing credits for my
account: To Messrs. M. Anderson and Co., Gibraltaf, for the purpose .oi making- advances, per*my account, ie4000, to Mlessrs.Archias and Co. for the same puipose, ;4000; to Messrs. Francia,Brothers and Co., of Gib.raltar, R2500.1"
On- the 3d Iof December, 1834, Bell and. Grar.t' wrote to'Thorn:
"We have now.the pleasure ofacknowledging the receipt of your
much esteemed favour of-the 31st October, in compliance with
which we have iiimediately increased the credits alrdady opened
for your account with Messrs. Robert Anderson and Co., of Gib-'
raltar, and Mdssrs. Archias and Co., of Marseilles, to the sum of
R4000 eachi andi.opened fresh ones of '2500, say two thousahd
five hundred pounds.in favour of Messrs. Francia, Brothers and
Co.- of Gibraltar, to enable them to: grant advances on consign-,
ments to you from • thence and from-Malaga.
"And it is moreover vuderstood, that so soofi z, the'credits in
fav'our of the three first-named houses have been used and -remitted for by you, we are to re-openr the same'accordingly, which
shall be attouded to."
One of the bills upon which the,-suit was brought, was drawn
under the above credit by R. Anderson. and Co,upon'the plaintiffs,
P2

SUPREME, COURT.
Bell et al. v. Bruen.

dated on the 16th December, 1836, for z318 12s. 6d., at ninety
days after date, which bill was paid by the plaintiffs.
On'the 31st of March, 1836, Thorn wrote to Bell and Grant:
"I have'sold a large parcel of San Lucas wine, consigned to me
by Messrs. La Cave aid Echicopar, per Lurin, which may lead
to further shipmnnts; and as they will require a credit opened toenable them to make.advances, you will ple.-se authorize them to
draw on you, on the usual conditions, to the extent of £2500,
say two thousand five.hundred.pounds.""
Another of the bills upon which the suit was brought, was
drawn under this credit by La Cave and Echicopar upon the
plaintiffs, dated on the 22d November f836, for e385 sterling,
which was paid by the.plaintiffs at maturity.
On the .15th of August, 1836, ThL rn wrote to Bell and Grant:
"I intend to send a vessel to Smyrna for an assorted cargo, and
will thank you to open a credit to Messrs. G. Amac, Zipcey and
Co., to that place, to the extent of 23500.'"
TWo other of the bills upon which the suit was brouglht, were
driawn upon the credit thus opened, by Amac, Zipcey and Co.
upon the plaintiffs, dated on -the 7th of 'January, 1837, one for
R1590, and the other.for £140, which were paid at maturity.
In November, 1836, the defendant went to Europe, and did
not return until the following August. During his absence he
wias in London, where he saw. the plaintiffs several times.
On the 16th of February, 1837, G. F. Tiarby, the agent of the
plaintiffs residing in New York, drew bills of exchange upon them
to the amount of £4000 sterling, which bills he loaned to Thorn,
upon collateral security and the guariantee of G. W. Bruen.
' On the 8th of March, 1837, Thorn wrote to Bell and Grant:
"As this remittance will very nearly balance my old account, I
have' prevailed on Mr. Darby to open me a credit similar to the
last, and on the same conditions, for £3500, which. shall be punctually provided for on the 8th May next,if not sooner."1
On the same day, four of the bills upon which the suit was
brought were drawn upon the credit tlius opened, which amounted, in the whole, to 43500, and were accepted and paid.wheii due
by the plaintiffs. These bills -Vere, guarantied by George W.
Bruen, the same person whq had guarantied the l6aned bills for

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

'175

Bell et' al. V. Bruen.

le4000, and who, at this time, was in good.credit, and could'have
raised e4000 on his notes.
On the 10th of April, 1837, Thorn 'failed and was insolvent,
and the means of his house'exhausted.
On the 26th of November, 1839, Grant, then ifn. New York,
wrote to the defendant, applying to him f6r the balance due to
his London firm, and saying, "Any further explanation you may
r.e4uire I am ready tor'give; but I must request your attention in
.the mean:while to the above claim, which I make .iinder -your
letter. of guarantee to Bell and Gfant, for any credits they might
open in favour of Mr. Thorn, and of which letter I.sent you a
copy, at your request, last February iwelve-month." '
In the tribL of tfie cause in the court-.below', the plaintiffs.
proved by the evidence of one Schenck,-that'-he.was for-many
years the cashier of Bell. and Grant, and greatly.fn their confidence; that he was well acquainted with their daily mercantile
operations; that, as well from his perusal,, at -the time, of the.
letters which *ere 'received and written by them ort the subject
of their account and transactions with Thorn, as also fromf ariojis conversations which 'he had with them, and.the directions
which he received with regard to the bills,'he had n6 douht'whatever but that the credits given .to the various houses who drew
the. bills,. were given by Bell and Grant in full reliance on the
letter of guarantee which had been written tothem by the defendant.
.The evidence being closed in- the court below, the counsel of.
the defendant prayed -the court to instruct the jury, among other
things, as matter of la*, that the letter of guarantee; of April 23.
1831, was void, as not expressing a consideratidn; that the said
le tei of guarantee was confined to credits to be.opened to the
house of Archias and Co., or other hb.ilses with whom Thorn
might - deal at Marseilles, and therefore could not- cover the advances upon the bills of exchange given in evidence. And
thereupon the judges did declare- their opinion and decide,.as
.matter of law, that by the true constr.uction of'the said letter of
guarantee, of April 23, 1831, the same only embraced credits
Which should be opened'for account of William H. Thorin othe
house- of Ardcaias*.and Co., of Marseilles, 'and that' the. evidence

176

SUPREME COURT.
Bell. et aL v. Bruen.

of the other matters in that behalf proved, did not give the said
letter of guarantee a more enlarged application; and, therefore,
that the jury ought to find.a verdict for the defendant.
To this instruction the plaintiffi' counsel excepted.
Lbrd and-Sergeant,for the plaintiffs in error.
Choate, for the.appellees.
Lord, for the plaintiffs, said that the consideration was sufficient, as the defendant's son was- a partner in the house whose
prosperity was to be increased.. 9 Cranch, 348 ; 6 Binney, 201;
15 Peters, 314.
In the guarantee there is no limitation of time or amount, as to
the credit with Archias and Co. Why limit it to others and*not
to them? The defendant relied upon 'his supervision over the
-house, and fiis being able to revoke the credit whenever he might
apprehend danger.
Such guarantees are not the subject of tc-hnical criticism; they
are not the work of lawyers, but merchants in the course of bu'siness, and are not to be judged by the strict ules of the common
law. Being of a continuing character, they involve the highest
expression of confidence.
The doctrine of cofistrtietion never arises until some ambiguity
exists. Bruen, the son, had the ehtire confidence of his father,
as the powers of attorney show. If the words, "any and every,
do not mean-vhat we say, they mean nothing. "Any"
&c.'?
means "some"'every" takes in all, and'what does "other"
mean? 3 Camp. 22.0
What-was the construction-that Bell and Orant placed upon it?
Their letter shows,.and if defendant thought it was not the correct one, he-ought o to have informed them.
As to the'legal construction, 12 East, 227, says, wordsmust be
taken as strongly against the party giving the gtarantee.as -the
case will admit. See also, 2 Meriv. 2.80.; 6 Binn. 244.; 12"Wheat.
517: 7 Peters, 113; 10 Peters, 4 902 16 Peters, 528, 536; 12 East,
237; 2 Campb. 413;' 1 Metcalf, 225; 12 East, 227; 6 Bingh.
244; 6 Meeson and Wilsby, (Exchequer,) 605; 3 Campb. 220;
2 Campb. 39.
The court erred in determining the questionf absolutely, as a

JANUARY TERM. 1843.

177

Bell et al. v. Bruen.
question of law, and declaring that the other circumstances did
not allow of an extended view of the guarantee. If these cir
cumstances were admitted, their effect was for the jury.
Choate, for defendant, made the following, points:
1. That the defendant's letter of April 21, 1831, was a contract,
preceded by a recital, and that the engagement extends no further than the recital.
2. The recital introduces in direct terms, or by reference, the
entire arrangement made between plaintiffs and Thorn, by the
letters of the 23d of February, 1831, and March 22, 1831f; and
the words "this credit," in the defendant's letter of 23d April,
1831, mean the first X2000; and the words "and any and every
other credit," mean the subsequent credits, to be opened under
the same arrangement.
3. The court will adopt the'construction which, under all the
circumstances of the case, ascribes the most reasonable, probable,
and natural conduct to the parties, and this requires the adoption
of the defendant's construction.
4. The plaintiffs never relied upon this guarantee for the credits, the subject of this suit.
5. They gave no such notice to the defendant, of the opening
of the credits, which are the subject of this suit, as is required.to
charge the defendant.
6. They did not, within a reasonable time after the grant of
the credits, and after the bills were paid, demand payment of the
defendant, or give him notice that they looked to him.
7. The-original arrangemeni made between the plaintiffs and
Thorn, in March,' 1831, was subsequently, in the spring of 1834,
abandoned and deserted; and in' the autumn following, a new
and inconsistent one, enlarging the credits to be given, and diminishing the security; was made, rendering notice to the defendant
necessary, but to which no notice could have given legal effect to
charge the defendant for subsequent credits.
8. The apparent diversity of terms between the recital and the
engagement in the defendant's letter, raises a doubt upon the face
of the guarantee as to its true extent; and upon that doubt, thus
raised, the constrnctiofi will be -infavour of the surety.
VOL. I.-23

178

SUPREME COURT.
Bell'et al. v..
Bruen.

Mr. Choate then discussed the iwb constructions to be placedupon the letter. There is no proof that Bruen, ihe son, was a
partner. i41 the house. Record only says, " interested and -conversant." He might have had a contingent salary. If he was
a partner, there is no proof that defendant knew it.
In March, 1834, the arrangement was abandoned, and in the
following October, the plaintiffs and Thorn made a new one.
In October, 1836 and 1837, plaintiffs made another arrangement with Thorn, opening credits f6r $50,000. In April, 1837,
Thorn failed, and in June, 1837, Bell became embarrassed; and
yet the defendant was not notified until 1839.
As to the letter of 23d April, -islanguage must be limited by
the recital and tfie circumstances. Sheph. 86. Courts habitually
so limit instruments. 'I Domat, 248; 3 Ch. Cases, 101 ; Sheph. 76;
Bac. Abr. title "Fait ;" 9 Mass. Rep. 235; Theobald on Surety,
66; 1 Law, Lib. 39..
Conditiop, when larger than th6 recital, is limited by'it. Fell
on Guarantees, 116; 1 Williams's Saunders, 415, note; Aleyn, 10;
1 Strange, 227;. 2 Saunderd, 412, a leading case; 6 East, 507 ;
2 Smith, 655; 2 New Rep. 175, referred to in Fell, 125; 2 Barn:
and Ald. 431; 2 Maule and Sel. 363; 4 Taunt. 593.
Reason of the rule is, that it is supposed to reach the true
meaning of the parties, as it is more likely that men will use
language improperly than act foolishly. Hobart, 304; Sheph.
Touch. 86.
So in the civil law; the court looks to probapility. 1 Domat,
248. So in 16 Peters, 534, reference is had to the circumstances
of the case.
12 Wheat. 518; 2 Pick. 235; 17 Wend: Rep.
425; 1 Metcalf, 25; 8 Taunt. Rep. 208.
Reason is stronger in the case of a surety. He is a favourite
of courts, and his contract is shicti juris. Where the terms are
clear, -they are not to be extended; ivhere they are-doubtful, the
court will adopt the narrower sense, provided it be reasonable .
and probable. Pothier on. Oblig. p. 2, c. 6, . 4*; Code NapoIeon, tit. 14, c. 1, arts. 2011, 2015, p. 401 ; 7 Cranch, 90, never repealed; 7 Peters, 122, does not conflict with it, -but adopts it.
A Mason, 336, that the language should-be strong to make a continuing guarantee ; in case, of doubt, constructioa.Jn favour of
surety; 16 Peters, 537; Ludlow v. Simonds, 2 -sCote Casemi.t4

JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

179

'Bell et al. v. Bruen.
Error, 1; 10 Johns. Rep. 311, 325; 8 Wenid. 516; 17'Wend.
422; 2 Pick. 224..
The law in England is so now. In the cases cited on the other
side, there is a-plain -meaning against the surety.' 1 Starkie, 1v2 ;
8 Taunt. 224; 3 Barn. and Ald. 594, 595; Nicholson and Paget,
52; 6 MeaTn, (Exchequer Reports,) 613; 1 T. R..287; 2 T.
R. 370; 3 East, 434; 8 Moore, 588, 582; 1 Perry and Davidson, 249; "10 Ad. and Ellis, 30.
This letter is a contract preceded by a recital of the circumstances. A recital is a prefatory statement to make the meaning plain. The purp6oe of the credit is stated, and the writer
must have referred to the renewed credit. 2 Bos. and Pul. 238.
There is only one case carrying the engagement beyond the recital, and that is 2 Campbell, N. P. Rep. 39. But thatwas different from the present'case, the engagement there being for anyr
thing "due on any other account," and inconsistent with the recital; but here it is not. No one asked defendant for an unlimited.
guarantee. Conduct of plaintiffs not likely to excite suspicion,
because they merely echoed defendant's own letter.
. The plaintiffs ought to have notified defendant when they
opened new credits. 5 Peters, 624; 12 Peters, 213; 4 Greenl.
525; 22 Pick. R., 223; 17 Johns. 140. '=Notice of default, at all
events, is indispensable.
14 Pick. 353; 18 Pick. 536; 8 Pick.
423; 22 Pick. 223; 3 Wheat. 144; 9 Serg. and.Rawle, 202.
The court below was right in deciding the question as-a point
of law. 1 Peters, 182; 5 Cranch, 190; Paine's C. C. R. 545;
20 Pick. 156.
Sergeant, for plaintiffs, in reply, said that he had not had time,
since yesterday, to look at all the authorities cited: on both sides,
there being about one hundred and fifty. This court have settled
the law, in 13 Peters, 89, as to the exclusion or admission of parol
evidence of circumstances. In Moran v. Bullitt, 16 Peters, they
decided that when there is a valuable consideration; an endorser,
though often a mere surety, is governed by the law merchant,
and not the common-law rules as to sureties.
1. The written guarantee by itself.
2. As explained by evidvnce.
1. By itself. - Every letter is written to some one; but does

.180

SUPREME COURT.
Bell et al. v. Bruen.

no t bind.until accepted by the other party. Then tie two letters
constitute one contract. If the acceptance varies from.the offer,
the offering party ought to say so. -It is a law of correspondence
to speak-the truth plainly; and hence; if *therebe ambiguity, the
-construction must be against the 'writer. It -may-be an intentional trap. The case in 16 Peters Wriied upon this. Bell and
Grant answered the letter, saying what they thought of. it; but
the charge of the court below was given upon only one of these
two letters.
In 2 Campbell, 39, the recital in a bond did not-limit the engagement, because it was a commercial transaction. In 1831,
Bruen came forward voluntarily. Bell did hot ask him nor in- quire'his motives. -_A guarantee always implies that the thing
would not be done without it. If Bruen intended whit we say,
he would have used the. very words he did. Therm is no ambiguity, and why construe it in? All thi cases except that in
Campbell were bonds with collateral conditigns. Lord Ellenborough treats them all as bonds given in. appointments to office.'
These are common law'instruments, and the recital is put in on
purpose to explain.
But not s6 with commercial contracts.
There is no recital in a letter or conversation. In the bond cases
there is a contradiction, but there is none here.'
The jury could have inferred Bruen theson's partnership in
Thorn's -house. He was interested in "the business. ' What
business? Bruen, from bankruptcy, had become worth R4000
in seven years. The defendant therefore wished to sustain his'son.
The question of notice oughtt6have gone to the jury. 'Douglas
v. Reynolds, 7 Peters, is decisive that notice is a question of fact.
'Thorn failed on loth April, 1837;'this disnenses with. notice
of the default: 12 Peters, 213.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion-of the.court.
The original action was founded upon a guarantee given by
Matthias Bruen to Bell and: Grant, in favour of Win. H4. Thorn,
by the followiiig letter:
New York, 23d dpril, 1831.
MESSRs. BELL AND GRANT, London.-DEAR SIRs :-Our mutual friend,. Mr. Win. H. Thorn, has informed me that he has a
credit for X2000,'given by you in his favour with Messrs. Archias

JANUARY T.ERM, 1843.

181

Bell et al. v. Bruen.

and Co., to give. facilities to his business at Marseilles. In expressing my obligations to you for the continuation of your friendship -to this gentleman, I take occasion to state, that you may
consider this, as well as any and every other credit you may open
in his favour, as being under my guarantee.
I am, dear sirs, your friend and servant,
M. BRUE,,.
To this letter the following answer was- given by "Bell and
Grant:
Ldndon, 14th June, 1831.
MATTrnAs BRUEN, Esq., New York.-We are in the receipt

of your favour of the 23d.April, guarantying the credit opened
on behalf- of Mr. Wm. H. Thorn with Messrs. Archias and Co.,
of 'Marseilles, for £2000, for the purpose" of facilitating his business with tha . place; and, moreover, desiring us to consider as
under your guarantee, also, all credits existing, or that we may
'hereafter open for said friend, of which we take due note. And
we trust, that 'Mr. Thorn, as well as your good self, will have
every reason to be satisfied with the confidence which we feel a,
pleasure in assigning to both of you."
The declaration contains four counts:
1. That the plaintiffs, on the 31st of March, 1896, were re-.
quested by Thorn to open a credit in his favour, authorizing the
firm.of La Cave and Echicopar, of Cadiz, to draw on the plaintiffs to the extent of £2500. That on the 22d November, 1836,
La: C. 'and E. drew for ,£385: which was advanced on the 12th
February, 1.37, 'by the plaintiffs, according to Thorn's request..
"2. That on the 10th of October, 1834, at the request
of Thorn
a credit was opened in his favour, authorizing R. Anderson and
Co., of Gibraltar, to. dTa for R4000. On the 16th Dedember;
1834, Anderson and Co. drew for 4318 12s. 6aZ.: which .plaintiffs.
paid, 19th March, 1837.
3. That on the 1.5th of August, 1836, the plaintiffs .opened a
credit in favofir of Thorn, authorizing Amac,. Zipcey'andCo., of
5myrna, to draw for £3500. Of this sum, the house at Smyrna.
drew £1640: which plaintiffs paid, 8th April, 1837..
4. That. on the 8th March, 1837, plaintiffs opened a credit to
Thorn, himself, for £3500, for which amount he drew bills; and
which were paid, 17th June, 1837.
Much other correspondence and evidencu was -given to the

Q

182,

SUPREM'E COURT.
Bell et al. v. Bruen.

juryi that need not at present be referred to; but which appears
in the statement of the case made out by the reporter, and presented to us.
The evidence being closed, the defendant. prayed the Circuit
Court to instruct the jurk, as fhatter of law, that the letter of.
guarantee, of April 23d, 1831,,was confined to credits to be
opened to the house of Archias and Co., or other houses with
whom Thorn might deal at Marseilles; and therefore the plaintiffs could not recover from the defendant, the advances made
upon the bills of exchange given in evidence: being for the sums
paid, as stated in the four counis of the declaration.
Thereupon the court did decide, as fhattek df law, cthat by the
true Constructinn of the said letter of guarantee, of April 23d,
1831, the' same only embraced credits which should be opened
for actount of Win. H. Thorn to the house of Archias and Co.,
of Marseilles; and that the evidence of the other matters in this
behalf proved, did not give the said letter of guakantee a more
enlargedapplication. And therefore, that the jury ought'to find
a Verdict for the defendant."
The jury found accordingly: and it is this instruction of the.
court alone, that we are called upon to examine, and revise.
Does the letter of guarantee extend to, and cover the debts of
Win. H. Thorn sued for? is the question. It was an engagement
to be executed in England, and must be construed and have.
effect, according to the laws of that country. Bank of the United
States v. Daniel, 12 Peters, 54, 55. But it is necessary to remark
that the law governing the agreement is the same in this country
and in England: had- it been made between merchants of diff.erent states of this Union, and int6nded to be executed at home,
the same rules of construction would be adopted; and the same
adjudications would apply.
It is insisted for the plaintiffs, that the Circuit Court erred in
determining the question absolutely as a question of law, upon
the construction of the letter: that it also erred in declaring the
other circumstances did not allow of an application- of the guarantee to the transactions in-question: sudh other circumstances,
being admitteil, their effect on the extent and application of the
guarantee was for the jury; and by. deciding on their effect as
matter of law, they were withdrawn from thb jury.

JANUARY -TERM, 1843.

183

Bell et al. v. Br-uen.

The letter of Bruen was an agreement to pay the debt of another on his making default: by the statute of frauds, (29 Chs. 2,)
such agreement must be in writing, and signed by the party to
be charged: it cannot be addedjo,:by verbal evidence; nor bywritten either, if not signed by the guarantor, unless the written
evidence is, by a. reference in the letter, adopted as part of it.
But *as the statute does not prescribe the form' of a binding
agreement, 'it is sufficient that the natural parts of it appear either
expressed, or clearly to be implied: and. correspondence and
other evidence may be -used to ascertain the true import and ap-plication of tile agreement; by the aid of which extrinsic evidence, the proper construction may be made. Such is the doctrine of this 'court, as will be seen by reference to- the .cases ofDrummond v. Prestman, 12 Wheat,; Douglass v. Reynolds,
7 Peters; Lee v. Dick, 10 Peters.
In the present instance, the question having arisen, and con-'
struction been called for, the matters referred tb in the letter of
the defendant, were considered ; (as circumstances attending the
transaction,) to aid the court in arriving. at-a proper understanding of the engagement: so soon as it was uz'dprstood, its construction belonged to the court, and was, "matter of law," within
the get al rule applicable to all written - instruments. It rested
with the'court toldecide, whether the guarantee extended to, and
covered the credits set forth in the declaration : and was the
common case of asking the court to instruct the jury, that. the
plaintiff had not proved enough to entitle him to recover, admitting all his evidence to be trde. In England, the same eud is
attained, by moving for a rionsuit.
For the defendant it is contended: That the letter of April 21,
1831, is a contract, preceded by a recital, and that the' engagement extendsno further than the recital.
The recital introduces in direct terms;'or by reference, the en-.
tire arrangement made between plaintiffs and Thorn, by the
letters of the 93d of February, 1831, and March 22, 1831 ; and
the w6rds." this credit," in the defendant's lett6r of 23d April,
1831, mean the first X2000; and the words "and any .and"
every
other credit," mean the subsequent credits, to Ise opened under
the same arrangement.
The general rile is well settled in controversies arising on the

184

SUPREME'COURT.
Bell et al. v. Bruen.

construction of bonds, with conditions for the performance of
duties, preceded by recitals; that where the undertaking is
general, it shall be restrained, and its obligatory force limited
within the recitals. The leading case, is Arlington v. Merricke,
2 Saund. R. 403. It has been followed by many others: Liverpool Waterwork Co. v. Harpley, (6 East, 507;) Wardens, &c. v.
Bostock, (2 Bos. and P. 175") Leadley v..Evans, (2 Bingh. R. 32;)
Pepin v. Cooper, (2 Barn. and A. 431,) are some of the principal
cases affirming the rule.
Where a mercantile guarantee, is preceded by a recital, definite
in its terms; and to which the general words obviously refer, the
same rule applies, of limiting the liability, within the terms of the
rkcital, in restraint of the general words. We find the courts
constantly referring to the cases arising on. bonds :with conditions,
for the rule of construction$ and applying it to.commercial guarantees; the most approved text -writers on this subject do the
same: does the engagement before us fall within the rule? It
recites:
."Our mutual friend, William H. Thorn, has informed me that
he has a credit for two thousand pounds, given by you in his
favour with Messrs. Archias abd Co., to give facilities to his business at Marseilles." The agreement is: "I take occasion to state,
that you may consider this, as well as any and every other credit
you may open in his favour, as being under my guarantee."
We are of qpinion that the engagement should be construed as
'if it read-"You may consider this, credit with Archias and Co., as
being under my guarantee: as well as, any and every other credit,.yofi may open in favour of William H. Thorn with any and
every other person, as also being under my guarantee." And
that therefore the first branch of the, undertaking has reference to
the recital ; and that the latter part, is independent of it. To hold
otherwise, would reject the general words- - "I as well as' any and
every other credit"--as unmeaning and useless: the agreement
having' the same effect, by the construction claimed for the
defendant, if these words were struck out, as if they are
left in it.
The general words, itis insisted, related to the tharacter of the
credit opened with Archias and' Co., because it was an open and
continuing credit, for X2000. That this ,appears by the letters

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

185

Bell- et al. v, Brien.

of.Thorn to Bell and Grant, and to Archias and Co.; which are
sufficiently refefred to in the -recital of the letter to make them
part thereof, and -to extend it to -the continuing ceedit with Ar-.
chias and C6.
-That-the two letters of Thorn were sufficiently referred-to, andcould be read to establish the nature of the credit; and that it
-was open, we have no doubt; but their adoption' was just as
certain without- the general Words, as with them. The special
reference to the iecital, adopting it as explaiied, by the letters,
leaves the general words still without meaning unless the guarantee extends beyond the credit.opened with Archias'and Co.
To make a proper application of the general words, it-becomes
necessary to-laty down a"definite rule of construction applicable.
to them; as the authorities are in conflict, and.to say the least, in
considerable. confusion, on the subject. The arguments are in.
direci conflict.
For the plaintiffs in eror, (Bell and Grant,) it iscontended
." That the guaran.tee. by letters isto.be taken,'in case of doubt, or
ambiguitk, on its face or otherwise, in the broadesi smnse, which
its language allows, and in which it has been acted on by the
partied." Drummond v. Prestman, (12 Wheat.;). Douglass v. Reynolds, (7 Peters;) Dick v,Lee, (10 Peters;): Mauran v. Bullus, (16
.Peters ;).Mason v. Pritchard, (12:East;) Merle v. Wells, (2 Campb.
R. 41 3 ) Bent v. Hartshorne, (1 Metcalfe R.;) Haigreave v. Smee,
(6 Bingh. R.; 10 Eng. Coin. Lawr Rep.^69;) Mayer v.Isaac,. (6
Mees. and Wels. Exch. R.;) and Bastow v,Bennet, (3 Campb. R.)
are relied on, to support the construction claimed as the true.onp.
On part of the defendant,.(Bruen,) it is insisted," That the
apparent diversity of terms, between the recital and the engagement inthe defeudant's letter, raises a doubt upon the face of the
guarantee as to its true extent; and upori the doubt, thus raised,
the construction'will be in favour of the surety.
*The" foll*owing authorities.are relidd on to sustain the construe,tiori here- claimed: Pothier on Obligations, part 2, see. 34; Code
Napoleon, art. 2011, 2015; Russell v.Clarke, 7 Cranch; 1 Maison,.
336; 2 Caines's Cases in Error, -29, 49; 10 Johns. R. 180, 325;
8-Wend R. 516; 7 Wend. 422; 2Pick. R. 234; 16 Peters, 537;
1. StArk. R. 192; 8 Taunt. 224; .3-.B. and A. 594, 595; 1 Crompt.
and Mees. 52, 54; 3 Wilson, 530; 1 Term R. 287; 2So. 370;
VOL. L-24

Q2

SUPREME COURT.
Bell-et al. v. Bruen.

3 East,.484; 4 Taunt. 673; 8 Moore, 588;' 1 Perry and D. 249;
10 Adolph. and Ellis, 30.
The adjudged cas6s referred to, giving a construction 'to bonds
with conditions, and conraets made directly between, debtor and
creditor, afford little aid in arriving-atthe tiue understanding of a
commercial guarantee. Bonds,-&c., are entered into with caution, and often after taking legal'advice;, they contain the entire
:contract, beyQnd which the courts rarely look for circumstances t6
aid, in their construction. And if there be sureties bound by
them, .and the meaning is dou~btful, the construction is restricted,
and made most favourable to the sureties. Such is the -result 6f
the authorities cited for the defendant.
--On the other hand: letters of guarantee are (usually) written
by merchiants; riarely with catiti(n, and gcarcely-ever with precisibn ; they refer in mbst cases, as, in the present, to various circumstances, and extensive commercial dealings, in the-briefest,
and most casual rnner, without any regard to f'orm; leaving
.much to inferencee and-their meaning open to ascertainment from
extrinsic circumstances, and fa'ts,'accompanying the transaction:
without referiing to which, they could rarely be properly understood by merchants, or by courts of justice. -The' attempt, therefore, to bring them to a standard of construction, founded -on
principles, neither known, or regarded,.by the writers, could not
do otherwise than produice confusion. Sdch -has been the "conse-quence; of the attempt .to subject' this descriptiofi of.commercial.
engagement to the same rules'of interpretation applicable -tobonds,
nd similar precise contracts. Of- the fallacy of which attempt;
the. investigation of - this cause has furnished a striking, ariid"
"instructive instance. These are considerations applicable to both
-of the arguments.
The.construction contended for as the true one on part of the
plaintiffs, is, That the letter of the defendant must 'be'taken in
.the broadest senbe which.its language allows; thereby, to widen
its applicMtion. To assert this as a general principle, would so
often, and so surely, violate*the intentio h of the guarantor, that it
is,
rejected. We thifil the court should adop't the construction
which, under all the circumstances of the ca.e, ascribes the most
reasonable, probable, and natural conduct to the parties. In .th
language'of this .court, in Douglass v. Reynolds, 7 Peters, 122,

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

187

Bell et al. v. Bruen.

"Every instrument of. this sort ought to receive a fair and reasonable interpretation according to the .true import of its terms.
It being an engagement for the debt of another, there is certainly
no reason for giving it an expanded signification, or liberal construction beyond the fair import of the terms." Or, it is, '.to be
construed according to what is fairly to be presumed, to have
been the understanding of the parties, without any strict tech-.
nical nicety ;" as declared in Dick v. Lee, 10 Peters, 493. Tie
presumption 'is of course to be ascertained, from the facts, and
6ircumstances accompanying -the entire transaction. We hold
these to be the proper rules of interpretation, applicable to the
letter before us.
The general words not being restricted by the redital, they
-fairly import that Matthias Bruen was bo.und to Bell and Grant
for the credits they opened in favour of William H. Thorn with
Archias and Co.: and for the credits also, they opened in favour
of Thorn, with an and every other person; covering those. set
forth in the three first counts -in the declaration: and we think
that the. Circuit Court 6rred, by instructing the jury, to the
contrary.
Whether the guarantee covered the credit extended to Thorn
himself, .directly, it is not.thought necessary to inquire; as no
argument was founded. on such an assumption; Thorn, who
was introduced as a witness in the Circuit Court by the plaintiffs,
on his cross-examination declared, that the e3500, mentioned in
the last, count i n the declaratioh;3 "had no relation whatever to
the guarantee of the defendajit:" it being under the guarantee
of a differetit person.
It was in.sisted also: 'That when Thorn failed, and the dealings
between him and -the plaintiffs ceased, they weie bound to notify
the guarantor,.ofthe existence of the debts due them by Thorn,
"and for which Bruen was held liable, in a reasonable time after
the dealings ceased: that Thorn failed April l0th, 1837.-;.'and the
notice was not given until December 31st, 1838S; the debts sued
for in the three first counts of-the declaration being-then.due:.
therefore the notice vas. ioo lite, and the defendant discharged.
The record shows tthat this ground of dfeice was not briought
to. the consideration of the Circuit Court, we do not therefore
feel ourselves at liberty to express any opinion iipon the question.

188

,BUPREMECOURT.'
Qart.wright v. Howe et aL

Again it is insisted: The original arrangement made between
the plaintiffs and Thorn, in March' 1831, was subsequently, in.
the spring of 1834, abandoned and 'deserted; and in the autumn
:following, a iiew and inconsistent one, enlarging the creditsto be
given, and diminishing the sucrity, was made, rendering. notice
-to the defendant. necessary, .but to which no notice could have
given legal effect to charge the defendant for subsequent credits.
To this, and all other questions raised here, on which the court
b elow was -not called to express any opinion, we can only give
the same answer, giv.eii to' the next pteceding, supposed'ground
of defence.
It is. ordered, that .the judgment, of the Circuit Court Je revexsed, and the cause remanded for another trial thereof.
O.DER.

This cause came oft to be heard on the tfanscript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the. United States for the'southern distrct
of New York,. and w as argued by counsel. -On consideration
whereof, it -is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,.that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the
same is hereby"reversed, with costs; arid that this cause be and
the same" is hereby remanlded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to award a vehire fadas de novo.

ELIZABETH. R.

.

1ARTWRIGHTj PLAINTIEF IN ERROR,

T. RowE, GEORGE"

F.

RICARD9,
sA

WILLIM

vi

AL=XANzR

RIcHARDs, DE-

FENDANTS.
THIS cause came 6n to be heard on the transcript of the record
fro m the Circuit Court-of'the United States for the District of Columbia,.holden in and for the county of. Washington, and it having been stated by Mr. Bradley, of counsel for the defendant in
rror, that the matters in controversy had -been agreed and settled
between the parties, to which Mr. R. J. Brent, of -6oulsel for the.
llaintiff id error, assented; it-. is thereupon np"xs" here ordered

and adjudged by this court that this cause be-:and the sam. is
hereby dismissed, with costs.,.

