234

SUPREME COURT.
fBank of the'Metropolis v. New. England
Ba'nk.

agreed to inarry, and did afterwards live together as man and wife,
the tie was indissoluble even by mutual consent. And that if
the contract be made per verba depresenti, and remains without
cohabitation; or if made per verba de futuro, and be followed
by consummation, it amounts to a valid marriage, and which the
parties (being competent as to age hnd consent) cannot dissolve;
and that it is equally binding as if made in fiacie ecelesiw.
Upon the point thus decided, this court is equally divided; and
no opinion can therefore be given. Upon the questions, however,
contained ih th6 first .exception, the judgment of the Circuit
Court mast be'reversed, and a venire de novo awarded.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
-South Carolinas and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be ard the
same is hereby reversed, with, costs, and that this cause be and
the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to award a venire Jaciasde novo.

THE PRESIDENT AND DiREcTosts OF THE BANK OF THE METROPOLIS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND
COMPANY OF THE NEw ENGIAND BANK, DEFENDANTS.
*Whenthere ha-e been, for seyera years.mntual and extensive dealings between
two banks,.and an account current kept between them, in which'they mutually
credited each other with the proceeds of all paper remitted for collection,
when received, and charged all-costs of protests, postage, &p.; accounts.regularly transmitted from the one to the other and settled upon these principles;
and upon the -face 6f the paper transmitted, it always appeared to be the
-property of the respective. banks, and to be remitted by each of them upon
its own account; there is a lien for a general balance of account upon the
aper thus transmitted, no matter who miy be its real owner.

T-nis dase was brought .up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court for the District of Columbia.

JANUARY

TERM,

1843.

235

Bank of the Metropolis v. New England Bank.
At the trial in the circtit Qourt, it appeared upon the evidence
that the Bank of the Metropolis, one of the banking institutions,
of the District of Columbia, had been for a long time in the habit"
of dealing and corresponding with the Commonwealth Bank of
Massachusetts.
They mutually remitted for collection such
promissory notes or bills of exchange as either miglit have, which
were payable in the vicinity of its correspondent, which, when
paid, were credited to the party who sent them, in, the account
current kept by both banks, and regularly trafsruitted from the
one to the other and settled upon these principles. The costs and
expenses, such as protests and postage,.were, of course, charged
in such account.
The balance was sometimes in favour of one, and sometimes
of the other. On the 24th of November, 1S7, the Bank of the
Metropolis was indebted to the Commonwealth Bank in the sum
of $2200, and in the latter part of the year 183t, the Commorfwealth Bank transmitted'to the Baink of the- Metropolis, for col-.
lection in the usual way, sundry drafts, notes, and other commercial paper which would fall due in the ensuing months of F'ebruary, March,.April, May, and Jane. - They were endorsed by E.
P. Clarke, cashier, and made payable to C: Hood, caslrier, and
again endorsed by C;-Hood, cashier, to G., Thomas, -cashier.
Clarke was the cashier of the New England Bank; Hood, of
the Commonwealth Bank, and Thomas'6f the Bank'of the Metropolis.
On the 13th of January, 1838, the Conimonwealth Bank failed,.
and on that day Charles Hood, the cashier, wrote-a letter :to the
Bank of the Metropolis, directing them to hold- the paper which
had been forwarded, as above stated, "subject to the order of the
cashier of the New England Bank, it being the property of that
institution."
When this letter was received, the acco.unt was
examined, and- it was discovered that on that day the Commonwealth Bank was indebted to the Bank of the Metiopolis in the
sum of $2900.
The deposition of Charles Hood, which-appeared to have been
*taken under tlie act of Congress, was read in evidence by the defendant in error. It stated, among other things, that" the Commonwealth Bank never, at any time, ow~ned any of said notes or
obligations, or any part or either of them, and had never any

236

SUPREM-EN -COURT.
Bank of the Metropolis v. New England Bank.

right, title, interest, claim, or lien thereon, but that the same were
at the time of the receipt, and ever afterwards, the property of
said New England Bank, and subject to its order and control."
The reading of this deposition was objected to in the court
below, and included in the bill of exceptions; but as the objection was not argued in this court, it is, presumed to have been
abandoned.
The -action was brought -by the New England Bank against
the Bank of the Metropolis, and the judgment in the Circuit
Cohrt was'in faVour of the plaintiff for the whole amount of the
proceeds of the notes and bills in question.
* At the~trial, a bill of exceptions was taken by the defendant,
('the present plaintiff in error,) which, after reciting the evidence,
-concludes as. follows:
Whereupon, the counsel for defendants prayed the court to
instruct the jury, that, if they shall believe from the said evidence
that the Commonwealth Bank did for a series of years transact
-business with defendants, -and did from, time to time transmit
notes .and other commericial paper to defendants for collection,
*hich were all treated by both parties as if the same were the
property of the said Bank of the Commonwealth, who were
credited in their account current with the proceeds, and charged
,with the costs and. expensep which- accounts were from time to
time adjusted, upon these. principles; that the-notes and paper
mentioned: in said letter of 13th January, 183S, were endorsed.
and trinsmitted in the .ordinary course of business, without any
notificatiou -that-'any other party 6r person. had any interest in
said paper, wvde thus received by defendants, and held by them;
-that while thus held by them, the said Commonwealth Bank became insolvent or embarrassed in its -circumstances, and after
such embarrassment the letters aforesaidof the I3th January, 1838,
-were written, and at the time of their receipt by defendants, said
embarrassed state, of said Commonwealth Bank was known to
defendants, and' there was at that period a large balanae on general account.-due defendants from baid Commonwealth Bank,
and the said paper was all regularly endorsed by the cashier of
said Commonwealth Bank- to defendants; the said defendants
had a right to receive said paper, and the proceeds when recovered, until such balance was paid; and plaintiffs are not entitled--

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

237

Bailk of the Metropolis v. New Englald .Bank.

to recover; which instruction, as prayed, the court refused to
give.
Coxe, for the plaintiff in error.
Bradley, for the defendant.
Crbxe argued, 1. As to the law, supposing the ,Commonwealth
Bank and the Bank of the Metropolis to have been the only parties in the transaction; and, 2dly, How far that law was changed
by the intervention of the New England dBank. : On the first
point, he cited 17W nd. 100; rRyan and Moodie,*271; 1 Rose'sCases, 230, 80- 5 T.'R. 488, 491, 493; 1 Esp. Cases, 66.; 2 Bla.
Rep. 1154.
As to the second point; he argued that' it must have bee n acsecret trust between the two eastern banks, which did not follow
the specific paper; and cited 1 Rose's Cases, 238, 242,.246, 248 ;7 T. R. 355; 7 Mass. Rep. 319, 324; 2 Vesey, 585.
Bradley, contra. As to the question of lien, 3 Bos. and Pul. 494
6 T, R..14; 7 East, 224, that special liens must be sustained by
proof; also Burrow, 2221 ; 6 East,, 28 ; I Atk.. 236' That the:
onus is on the person who claim's a lien, 7 Barn. and Cres. 212, -in
14 Com. 'Law. Rep. 30; 3 Bro. Chan. Cases, 21. No lien for
general balance on bills casually left. 7 Taunt. 278; see also
3 Mason's Rep. 222; 1 Maule and Selw. 140; 2 Dall. 60; 1 East,'
335; 8 Barn. and Cres. 622, or 15 Com. Law.Rep. 319; 7 Bingh.
284; 2D.Com. Law. Rep. 130; Doug. 303; 3 T. R. 321 ; 1 P.W.
318; 3 P. W. 185; 1-Salk. 160; 1 Atk. 234; 2.Barn. and Aid.
3.27; 3 Barn. and Cres. 376 1 Petersi 28, 30, 35.
Coxe, in conclusion, examined cases -cited on the other side to
show that they did not apply, and argued that there was a spedial
usage made out between these two banks. ' In 1 Livermore on
Agency, 261, cases examined, and same distinction drawn as
exists here.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
If this were a question between the -two Bostott banks, and
the cise depended upon their respective rights, the plaitiff in
the court below would, undoubtedly, have -been entitled to

238

SUPREME COURT.
Bank. of the Metropolis v. New England Bank.

rec6vei; for it is admitted, that although the notes and bills were
endorsed tQ the Commonwealth Bank by the cashier of the New
England "Bank.
vet no consideration was given for them; nor.
any advances of monev made upon them; and they were placed
in the hands of the first-mentioned bank as the agent of the other,
merely for the purpose of collection. The question, however, is
a different one between the parties to this suit, and its so]ution
must depend, not upon the nature of the transactions between
these two banks, but upon the dealings between the Commonwealth-Bankt and the Bank of the Metropolis.
It'appears from the evidence o'fered by the 'plaintiff in error,
that for several years prior to the. =solvency of the Commonwealth Bank, (which happened in January, 1838,) there had
been mutual and extensive dealings between the two last-mentioned banks, and -an.accont.-ch "rent between them, in which
they mutually credited each other with the proceeds of all paper
remitted for collection when received; and. charged all costs of
protest, postage, &e. Accounts were regularly transmitted from
the one to the other, and settled upon these principles; and, upon
thg face of the paper tr.ansmitted, it always appeared to be the
property of .the respective batiks, and to be remitted by each of
them on its own account.
The balances in the kccount current fluctuated according to the
am6unt of paper they respectively transmitted, and these balances- it. would seem were generally suffered to remain until
they were reduced by the proceeds of the notes and bills deposited
with each other in the usual course of their business. Thifs, in
November, 1837, the Bank of the Metropolis was debtor upon
the account in the sum of $2200; but in January, 183.8, when
notice of the failure of the Commonwealth Bank was received,
that balance had been extinguished, and the last-mentioned bank
was dcbtor is the.sum of $2900. It is not suggested that~.any
information of the interest of the New -England Bank, in the
paper in 'question, was ever communicated to the Batik of the
Metropolis until after the insolvency of the Commonwealth Bank.
And the question is, whether the plaintiff in error has a right to
Tetain. the proceeds of the -notes fhen in its hands to cover the
balanice of account due upon these transactions.
If the.notes remitted had been the property of the Cominon-

JANUARY TERM, 1843.
Bank of the Metropolis

239

. New England Bank.-

wealth' Bank, there w6uld be no doubt of the right to Ytain;
because it has been long settled, that wherever a banker has advanced money to another, he has a lien on all the paper securities
which are in his hands for the amount of-his general balance,
unless such securities were delivered to him under a particular
agreement.
The paper in question was, however, the property of the New
England Bank, and was endorsed and delivered to the Coommonwealth Bank for collection, without any .considcration, and as its
agent in the ordinary course of business; it being usual, and
indeed necessary, so to endorse it, in order to enable the agent
to receive the money. Yet the possession of the paper was
prima facie evidence that it was the property of the last-mentioned bank; and without notice to the contrary, the. plaintiff in
error had a. right o to treat it, and was under no obligation, to
inquire whether it was held as agent or as owner; and if an advance, of money had been made upon this paper to the Commonwealth Bank, the right to retain for that amount would hardly be
disputed.
We do not perceive any difference in principle between-an advance of money and a balance suffered to remain upon the faith
of iheseomutual dealings. In the one base as well as the other,
credit is given upon the paper deposited or expected to be transmitted in the usual course of the transactions between the parties
There does not, indeed, appear to have been any express agreement that those balances should not be immediately drawn for;
but it may be implied from the-manner in which the'business was
conducted; and if the accounts show that it was their practice
and understanding to allow them to stand and" await the collection of the paper remitted, the rightsof the parties are the same as
if there had been a positive and express agreement; and such mutual indulgence on these balances would be a valid consideration;
and, like the actual advance of money, give the plaintiff in error
a right to retain the amount due on closing the account.
It is evident that a loss must be sustained 'either by the plaintiff or defendant in error by the failure of the Commonwealth
Bank. We see no ground for maintaining that there is any
superior equity on the side of the New England Bank; It contributed: to give to the corporation w.liich has proved insolvent

240

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the Metropolis v. New England Bhnk.

credit with the plaintiff in error, by the notes and bills which it
placed in, its hands to be sent to Washington for collection, endorsed in such a form as to make them prima facie the property
of the Commonwealth Bank, and enabled it to deal with them
as if it were the real owner. The Bank of the Metropolis, on
the contrary, is in no degree responsible for the confidence which
the defendant in error reposed in its agent. And when this misplaced confidence has occasioned the loss in question, it would be
unjust to throw it upon the bank which has been guilty of no
fault or want of caution, and which was induced to give. the
credit by the manner in which the defendant in error placed its
property in the hands of an agent unworthy of the trust.
If, therefore, the jury find that the course of dealing betweeu
the Commonwealth Bank and the Bank of the Metropolis was
such as is stated in the testimony; that they always appeared to
be, and treated each other.as the true owners of the paper rputually remitted, and had no notice to the contrary; and that balances
were from time to time suffered to remain in the- hands of each
other to be met by the proceeds of negotiable paper deposited or
expected to be transmitted in the usual course of the dealing between them, then the plaintiff in error is entitled to retain for the
amount due on the settlement of the account.
. The question, whether the balances were usually suffered to
lie for a time on account of negotiable paper actually deposited
or expected to be received, and wvhich formed the consideration
on which the defence rested, is not perhaps as distinctly stated as
it might have been in the hypothetical instruction requested by
the plaintiff in error. But we think it is fairly to be inferred
from.the language used in the prayer, by which the defence is
put upon the ground that the paper transmitted was tr6ated by
the parties as the property of each other; and as the prayer was
rejected without any. explanation or qualification, we have no
reason for supposing that a differedt construction was put-upon.
it in the Circuit Court.
The judgment must therefore be reversed.
ORDER.

This cause -came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United- States for the District of Co-

JANUARY TERM, 1843.
McKenna v. Fisk.

lumbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was
argued by c6unsel. On consideration whereof, it is Pow here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs; and that this cause be and the same is hereby
remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a
venire facias de novo.

BERNARD

McKENNA, PLAINTIFF IN

ERROR, V.

CHARLES B.

FIsK,

DEFENDANT.

After pleading the general issue, it is too late to take advantage of a defect in
the writ, or a variance between the writ and declaration.
Actions of trespass, except those for injury to real property, are transitory in
their character.
Where the writ mentions a trespass with force and arms upon the storehouse
of the plaintiff and a seizure and destruction of goods, it covers a transitory
as well as a local action.
In transitory actions, a venue is laid to show where the trial is to take place.
It is a legal fiction, devised' for the furtherance of justice, and cannot be
traversed.
In such actions, such a venue is good without stating where the trespass was
in fact committed, with a scilicet of the county in which the action is brought.
Tn the absence of statutory provisions, the courts in the Districtf of Columbia
must apply the principles of the common law to such actions, the pleadings,
and" he proofs.

Ti rs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the .United States for the District of Columbia andcounty of Washington.
I the trial of the cause in the court below, the whole of the
evi ence offered by the plaintiff was shut out by a decision of
the court, and the question was solely upon the correctness of
this opinion.
The w-it was as follows:
The United States of America, to the Marshal of the District of
-Columbia, greeting:
We command you, that you talce Charles B. Fisk, late of Washington county, if he shall be found within the county of WashVOL. 1.-31
X

