.134

I SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. Beverly et al.

proportion at the rate.of an interest of five-eighths in a moiety of
the original purchase of Morris and Williams, and that the court
shall take such other "proceedings in, the cause as equity may
require.
ORDER.

.This cause came on to be heard on-the.transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district
of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel., On- consideration
whereof, ,it is now here considred, ordered, aid decreed by this
court, that. the decree of the said. Circuit Court in this cause be
and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause
be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with ingtructions to that court to have an account taken; and
that the complainant be allowed -his proportion at the rate of an
interest of five-eighths in a moiety of the original purchase of'
Morris and Williams, and that the said court shall take such
other:proceedings in the cause as equity may require.

THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE BA
or mz
'UNITED STATES, AND THE UNITED STATES, V. JiAxEs B. BEVERLY
AND JANE HIS WIFE,*,WILLIAM RAMSAY AND ELIZABETh HIS WIFE,
HAMILTON AND JAYE s PETrER, HEIRS OF DAVID PETER, DECEASED,
AND GRORGE PETER, SURVIVING EXECUTOR- OF DAviD ,P.TER
DECEASED.
The case in 10 Peters, 562, reviewed.and confirmed.
A fact tried aid decided by a court of competent jurisdiction canxiot.be. cputested again between ihe same parties; arid' there is no difference in this
respect between ;L verdict and judgment-at common law and a decree of a
court of equity.
But an answer in Cbaxcery setting up, as a defence, the dismission of a former,
bill filed b'ythe same complainants,'is not sufficient unless the rbeord be
exhibited.

A disposition by a testator of his personal property to purposes other thau .the
paynent of his debts, with the assent of creditors, is in ilself a charge on the
real estate, subjecting it to the payment of the debts of the estate, although no
suuch charge is createdby the words bf the will.

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

135

Dank of the United' States v. Beverly et al.
Lapse of time is no defence where there is an unexecuted trust-to pay,debts,
which this court, in 1836, decided to be unpaid in point of fact.

THis case grew out of that of Peter v. Beverly, which came
beforethis court in 1836, on an appeal from the Circuit Court
of the District of Columbia, in decreeing an injunction on the
proceedings of the then complainants, to sell a part of the real
estate of David Peter, deceased. A full report of that case will
be found in 10 Peters, 52, et seq., wherein all the facts and circumstances attending it are fully set forth in the opinion of the
court, and do not require repetition now. The result of that
opinion was a reversal of the decree below; a.dissolution of the
injunction; an order that the bill of the complainants be dismissed, and that the cause be remanded to the Circuit Court, withdirections to carry the decree of this court into effect. This was
done, and the decree consummated by a sale of the property in,
controversy, which consisted of those parts of the real estate of
David Peter which he had by his will charged with the payment.
of his debts; but they being insufficient .for the. purpose, the present bill was filed in order to subject the residue of the estate,
not'so charged directly by the will, to -the payment of the residue
of the debts of the-estate..
In March, 1836, the heirs or devise'es of David Peter executed adeed to John Ma rbury, aithorizing him to sell certain property, which
he accordingly did ; the-amount of sales being $38,722 32 cents..
At a subsequent period of 1836, the Bank ofthe United States,.
in behalf of the said bank, and of fie United States, a'nd'of such
of the creditors of the estate of David Peter as should come into
court and contribute to the expenses of the suit; filed .a bill against
.George Peter, suriving executor, against the 'heirs or devisees
of David Peter, and against John Marbury, trustee as aforesaid,.
stating that the personal estate of the said testaior had been applied to the use and benefit of the heirs by -the executors, in the
fulfilment of the trust 'created by'the will, and clainiig.that the
real estate of the said testator, or the proceeds thereof, or as much
as might be necessary, should be applied to pay whatever balance
might remain due to the creditors, after selling and applying to.
that purpose the- proceeds of the city lots and the land upon
which Dulin lived. It prayed, also, an injdnction against Marbury, and for other and general relief.

136

SUPREME COURT'.
Bank of the United States v. Beverly et al.

In April, 1836, -thefollowing agreement was made between the
counsel of the respective parties; and filed in the cause.
agreement of Counsel.
It is agreed by the parties in this cause, by their counsel, that
the Bank of the United States and George Peter, who claim to be
creditors of the estate of the late David Peter, for a balance of
debt which may remain to them after the application of the trust
estate provided in the will of the late David Peter for the payment of his debts, shall, if such balance be established against the
defendants, the heirs and devisees of David Peter, as to so much
of David Peter's real estate as is conveyed to John Mlarbury, by
deed filed as an exhibit with complainant's bill, look to the proceeds of sales of said ieal estate so conveyed to the said John
Marb'ury, in lieu and stead of the said real estate itself.
It is further agreed, that as soon as the purchase-money of said
real estate shall become'payable and be collected by said John
Marbuy, he shall invest the same in his own name, as trustee,
in Pennsylvania State stock, bearing interest at the rate of 5 per
cent., first deducting therefrom the necessary expenses, taxes
due on the said property, to the day of sale, and the c'ommissioners provided for in the said deed; the whole of the proceeds of
the said .sales, after such deductions made, to be subject to the
order and decree of this .court in this cause for the disposal thereof, whether the said order or decree be for the payment of debts"
due'from the said estate of David Peter to the Bank of theUnited States, or to. George Peter, or other person, or from the
said.heirs and devisees, or either of them, to the said Bank of the
United States, or George Peter, or either of tIlem; on account of
any portion of the personal estate of said David Peter, used or retained by them severally; provided, also, that it is the true intent
and .meaning of this agreement, that the part, portion, of interest
of each of said heirs and devisees, should be responsible only for
so much of the claims and debts of said heirs and devisees, to
said Bank of the .United States, or George Peter, as he or she
shall be personally responsible for;*and that no one shall be held
or deemed responsible for any other than him or herself.
It is further agreed, that the Bank of the United States, or
George Peter, or either of them, by themselves or their agent,

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

137

Bank of the United St'ates v. Beverly et al.

may stop or postpone the sale of any portion, or the whole, of the
property advertised for the 15th inst., or any future attempted
sale of property so conveyed to said John Marbury, if they, or
either of them, should be dissatisfied with the prices bid, or.offered, for said property, or any portion thereof; provided, however,
that all the said property shall be sold during the present year,
unless the said bank and George Peter consent to further delay.
It is further agreed, that the three story brick house and, lots
appuftenant in Washington City, set forth in said deed to John
Marbury, as devised in tiust for William H. Peter, shall be sold
jointly by the said John Marbury and the -said George Peter,
sen., executor of David Peter, and upon the terms mentioned in
the deed to said John Marbnry; and that the proceeds of the
sale of the said house and lots appurtenant, after deducting, expenses and taxes, shall, when the same becomes due and is collected, be invested by'the said John Marbury and George Peter,
in their joint hames as trustees, in five per cent. stock of the state
of Pennsylvania, to abide the order of this court for the disposal
of the same. The said John Marbury to charge no commission
on.the proceeds of said sale, if the c;ourt shall be of opinion that
the said house and lots appurtenant be part of the real estate of
David Peter; and the. said George Peter to have no commission
ofn the proceeds thereof, if the court be of opinion that the same
is the property of the estate of William H. Peter, deceased.
It is understood and agreed, that nothing herein contained is to
be taken to amount. to an admission by the defendants, the said
heirs and devisees, or either of them, that any debt is due from
them, or .either of them, to the said complainants or the said
George Peter ; or to prevent them, or either of them, from having the benefit of the statute of limitation, by plea or answer, or
any other defence, legal cr equitable, against the enforcement of
the claims of the complainants, or George Peter, except that the
said defendants, the said heirs and devisees, do hereby waive any
exception to the jurisdiction of the court, as to the personal estate
in this agreementmentioned.
.F. S. Ki(y, for United States Barnk.
JAs. DuxiLoP, Solicitor and Trustee foi- Geo. Peter.
JoirN MARDURY, Sol'rfor heirs, and devisees. and himself
tYpr'l 12th, 1836.
X2
VoL. I.-8

13S

SUPREME -COURT.
Bank of the Dnited°States v. Beverly et al.

Afterwards all the defendants answered. George Petei, the
executor, claimed to be a creditor of the estate; Marbury admitted the execution of the deed 'to .him and the sales under it; and
the devisees, Beverly and others, pleaded the lapse of time and.
the- statute"of limitafions'Eis a full and complete bar against the
-iclaim of the complainants. They also denied all knowledge of
an arrangement -with the Bank of Columbia; required proof of
it; denied.the authority of the executors-to cast any further-burden. uporn the real estate, than such as would result from a"deficiency in the personal estate; denied that the. executors applied
to the -bank for indulgence; averred that the negligence of the
executors -alone prevented the recovery of the purchase-money
of the firm from Magkuder; averred that the children of David
Peter were minors at ifhe time of his death, and incapable of consenting to any arrangement whatever with the banks; that Bpverly'bd no knowledge of, or-interest in, the property until 1819,
when his marriage took place; that "they.were never able to acquire any information,, aid. ndver did, of the complicated affairs
of the estatd;' praying that'the dlecree of the court, disrmissing a
sirimilar -bill in 1827, may be as effectual as if formally pleaded;
•averring.that -any agfeement with the banks could affect nothing
m6rethan-'the trust part of the real estaie ; they deny the authority of the court to deciee a sale of property situated in Maryland;
aver that the executors received large sums of money for 'whidh
they hav.e rendered n6 account; that no part of the personal
estate'came into the 1ossession of Beveily since. his marriage;
that if any part of it, carrie into the possession- of his-wife before her
marriage, it-wag'very.: inconsiderable-indeed'; -and that the personal
estate continued,principaliy.in the possession of George Peter, the
executot, by whom it was-used wastiedand otherwiso disposed of.
, On motion of the complainants, by' their solicitor, the Circuit
,Court ordered4"that the decree of the Supreme Court, and the
bill, answers, exhibits, depositiohs;and proofs in ie case of Bverly v.Peter in the said record, and on file in the said cause,'be
read and made use of in the hearing of this cause."
in January, 1840, the 'papers in the, cause, with the evidence
already taken aiid on file, were. referred to .the auditor to state an
account between the TvartiesAlnon the principles of -is former re.Poti, and ii November, 1840, he reported as follows:
-

JANUARY TERM, 184.

'139

Bank of the United Stat-es v. Beverly dt al.

.dui'itor'sReport.
The'Bank
.. of the
. United
v. States and Peter,'
.
)In chancery.'
The Etate of David Peter, deceased.

The u.ndersigned auditor of the Chancery Court for Washington county; District of Columbia, has had the papers filed in thiscause under examinatiofi, and now submits the following report:
That the claim of the Bank of the'United States against the
estate of David Peter, with interest to 'the 12th day of November, 1840, and costs, is $46,119 75; and that the claim of George
Peter, per statement herewith, is $26,607 78: Thhf the net proceeds of the sales of property sold by GeorgePeter, as executor,
is $17,513 66, to which may be added the estimated value of
two thousand acres of land in Montgomery county, Maryland;
called Dulin's, (which originally sold. for a little, upwards of.
$2o,00o,) $7500; of vacant lots in the city of Washington, $1560,
and $287S15 being 'the amount awarded to the proprietd.r of
*Dulin's farm by the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal 'Company, foi-.
damages. done by running said canal through -that farmy.'which
su'n has never been paid by the executor of David Peter. -These
.several items, if the property. brings this estimatecT value, will
make the sum of $Z9,386 81 for trust estate.
That the sales made by lohn Marbury, under an agreement
made by the parties to this cau~se, gs per report of sales, amount
to $41,731 86, but -owing to the non-compliance with.the terms
of-sale, of some of the purchasersthe corrected sales as specified
ih Mr. Marbury's account 'No. 2, the amount is reduced to
f38,722 .2; the whole amount of the- .payments received by
Mr. Marbury up to th6 20th April, 1838,-is $21,711-16, from

which deduct,. for -expenses, taxes, surveying, auctioneer's, bills,
and the tristee's commission $1,804 76, leaving in the hands of
-the trustee, $19,906 40, which amount, according to his-report,
has been vested in the'-stock of the state -ofPennsylvania, bearing interest at 5 per. cent. ter annum. The corrected sales, as
* above, amount to $38f7_02 32, to which-may *be added as'fdllows: Win. Ramig'as purchase of'lots, $2084, and Win. Stew-'
art'S, $501;which still remiain for the -trustee to dispose of, and
if they bring the same at which they wqre struck off at to Ram.. say.and Stewart, will- make, when- added to the $3S,722 32; the

SUPREME COURT.
Bank -of the United States v. Beverly et al.

sum of $41,307 32 as gxoss sales; in addition to this sum, there
remains twenty-four acres of land, near the city of Washington,
bought at the sale -by Mr. Upton, who never complied with the*
terms of sale, and never has paid for, which it is believed will
sell for. $1000; this will make the trustee's sales -amount to
$42,307 32, and taking the expenses, commissions, &c., as before
mentioned, it will leave in the hands of the trustee the sum of
040,502 56. That it thus .aplears, that the sales "of George
.Peter, acting under the will of David Peter, amdunt, if the sales
shall be equal to the estimate -here given, will be $29,386 81, and
those by Mr. Marbury, $40,502 56. To these sums, are to be
added the amount of interest received on the notes given in payment, and the -interest on the Pennsylvania stock.
The auditor has read aind considered the pleas of limitation
put forth by the answers of the heirs of David, Peter, and by
John Marbury, Esquire, as'their solicitor in this cause, and is of.
opinion that it is not available, under the circumstance of this
case, as it respects either of the creditors.
JosEPH FORIsST, duditor.
Submitted by
.10th November, 1840.
In t1he adidit of the 10th December, 1833, the executors are
charged with the following, being for property sold An the city
Washington to sundry persons,. viz.-: Shaw and Elliot, lots
$1000; J.Kuhn, $796 86, an.d Francis Dodg6, $175, making in
the whole $1971 86. It is contended, by George Pete , the surviving executor, that he never received this amount,,or any part
thereof, but that the same was received by the heirs; as Major
Peter gave deeds to the purehasexs, the auditor is of opinion, that
it was rightfully charged in said audit. This amount the. executor
can bring into his settlement with the heirs, but not into a settlement with the creditors of the estate.
JOSEPH FORREST, duditor.
10th December, 1840.

,of

Whereupon the complainants, by their, solicitor aforesaid, filed
the following excepfion to the auditor's-report:
Complainants'. Exceptori.
Because the auditor has charged George Peter, surviving executor, with the purchase-money of the lots sol&-to. K.hbi and

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

141

Bank of the United S-tates v. Be.vrly et al.

.Birth, when it was proved, that'the' same was not received by
him, but by James- B. Beverly, or was applied by him to .the
payment of debts of the deceased, for which the executor is-nbt
credited.
F. S. KEY,.for complainant.
Whereupon th6 said detendants, by their solicitor aforesaid,
filed the following exceptions to the auditor's said report, to wit:
Defendqnts' Bill of Exceptions to duditor's7Report.

-

Exceptions on the. part: of the heirs at law and devisees of
David Peter, defendants in the above cause, to the "report of Soseph Forrest, Esq., auditor, made in this cause, and filed the
day of Novemb.er, in the year 1840. The said defendants except
to the said report,
1. Because the auditor has allowed'a claim or debt of$46,119
25, in favour of-the complainants, the Bank of the UnIted States,
against the estate of the said'David Peter and the defendaits, hig
heirs and devisees, without legal, competent, and proper evidence
of the existence of such debt, or of any debt whatsoever, due- .
from the said David Peter, in'his lifetime, and with the pdymentof which these defendants ought to be charged in this suit.
Z. Because, in stating the'said- pretended debt or account, between the complainants and the said defendants, the heirs and.
devisees of the said. DaVid Peter, the auditor has allowed compound interest, and thus,'unjustly, illegally, and oppressively
increased -hesaid pretended-debt..
3.' Because, if any such debt was due from the said David
Peter, in his lifetime, and -at the time of his death, which happened in the year 1812, the recovery of the same against these
defendants, as the'heirs and devisees of the said David Peter, in
consideration of any real estate descended from, or devised by
the said David, to these defendapts, was barred by lapie of time
and the provisions of the act.of limitations; unc although'these
defendants, in .their answer to the bill of complaiit, and at the
hearing before the auditor, insisted on tlie lapse- f time and the
provisions of the act of limitations, in bar-of the-said debt or demand of 'the complainants, the auiditor-rejected their said defence,
and allowed the said debt or demand.
4. Because George, Peter, the surviving execut6r of David
Peter, and one of the defendants to 'the said bill of complaint,

142

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. Beverly et a].

having elected to. come in and contribute, with the complainants,.
to the expenses of this suit, filed an account as a creditor of the
estate of the said David Peter, amounting to the sum of $26,607
78, which said suin of $2660"7 78, the auditor has. allowed as a
just and proper charge against the estate of the said David. Peter;
.and for the payment of which,.the real estate, devised by the said
David to these defendants, ought to be sold. Whereas, these defendants say, that there is no evidence in the cause. to prove the
same, or any part thereof,.to have existed as a debt- against- the
said David Peter in his lifetime, or to authorize a ,decree for the"
sale of the real estate devised to these defendants, by the said
"David, for the payment of the same.
5. Because, each and every one of the items of.charge contained in the account of the said Geo.rge Peter, so allowed by the
auditor, was of more than three years' standing before the filing
of the said account, by the said,'George Peter,,with the auditor,
and before the filing of the bill of. complaint in this cause by, the
Bank of -the United States, against -these defendants and the' said
.George Peter, and was, at the time of the filing of the said bill
of complaint, barred by lapse of time and the provisions of the
act of limitations; and these defendants; at the hearing before
the auditor,'and before the making of his said report, as appears
by the said report, insisted on the lapse of time, and the provisions of the act of limitations, as a bar to the claim of the said
George Peter; notwithstanding which, the auditor allowed the
same..
6. Because the report of the auditor and the account accompanying the same, are not in pursuance of the 6rder of reference
to the'auditor, but relate,-to claims and accounti not embraced in
such.'reference.
7. Because the said report, accounts'and tatements, accompanying the same, are unsupported by lgal and competent evidence in .the cause, and therefore ought to be set aside.
8. Because the sum allowed to George Peter, As surviving executor of David-Peter,. by the auditor, is fpr a general balance on
the settlement of the executor's account, as is alleged, for that
amount overpaid the proceeds of the estate which came to the
hands of the executors, to be administered; and the defendants,
p heirs and devisees of the real estate bf the said David. Peter,

JANUARY TERM, 1843,

148

Bank of the United States v. Beverly et aL

are not chargeable by the executors, or the survivor of--hem,
with the payment of such' balance.
JoHN MAREURY,
salicitorfor the heirs and devisees of David Peter.
On -the 21st of January, 1841, the cause came on for- hearing
on the exceptions to the auditor's report, and the bill, answers
and exhibits, depositions and proofs and general replication;
when the, court decreed that the exceptions to the auditor's
report, made by complainants, be overruled, and the exceptions
of'defendants to the auditor's report be confirmed; and that the
bill of the complainants be dismissed with costs.
From that decree the complainants appealed to this court.
Jones and Sergeant, for the appellants.
Cox and Reverdy Johnson, for the appellees.
The counsel foi the appellants made the following points,
That the court erred.
1; In overruling the exception of complainants.
2. In confirming the exceptions of 'defendants, the claims of
the bank and of George Yeter being sustainied in the record by
the proof as reported by the auditor.
3. In dismissing the billBecause: 1. The bill filed in 1827, and the proceedings thereon,
were no bar to the relief now sought.
2.-Lapse of time and the statute of limitations could not,.
under the circumstances of the case, operate as a bar.
3. Under the arrangement "made between the banks and the
executors for the benefit of the heirs, and according to the provisions of thewill, the personal estate might properly be applied
to the maintenance of the heirs.
4. -If so applied (as it was) the real estate wag liable to the
debts; whether specifically so directed by the will, or not.
5. On that part of the real estate specifically directed .to be
sold fdr the payment of the-debts appearing to -be insufficient, the
rest of the zeal. estate was liable; and" itwas not necessary, it
such case, to wait till an actaal sale ascertained the extent of the.
insufficiency.
.6. All these grounds were maintained~in the opinion of this
court in the former casi between the~e parties. "
•1a that. case the court determined 'that the rel estate specifi-'

144

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. Beverly et al.

cally directed to be sold to pay debts, was liable to be sold for
that purpose.
This'bill avers the insufficiency of that part of the real estate
(it haying been sold) to pay the debts; which is not denied in the
answer. And the appellants contend that, under the will-and
by the laws of Maryland, the residue of the real estate is liable
to the extent of the insufficiency.
Jones argued that the act of Maryland of 1785, gave to
simple contract creditors the'same remedy against heirs as spe.cialty creditors. The heirs and "devisees in this case consumed
He
the personal fund, and the testator intended it should be s,.
had, in-effect, alienated his peisonal estate from the payment of
his debts. Where the legatees have a lien, they must resort to it:
I P. W. 679; 2 Powell on Devises, 654. The executor can come
in as a creditor. 3 P. W. 398; 3 Gill and Johnson, 324; 6 Gill and'
Johnson, 4. The plea of limhitations cannot avail, because the
will creates a trust to pay debts which consists mainly in a charge
upon the real estate. The form of making the trust is not material. If there is a charge upon the land and no trustee, the
court will appoint one. 13 No. of Law Library, page 10.
Coxe, contra.
The proceeding is 6xclusively upon the statute of Maryland
of 1785, and not upon that of George II., making real estate
subject to execution. But the debt must be in existence at the
death. of the testator, and the executor's claim, here, has arisen
since. See 1 Harris and Johnson,,469; 2 Bland's Cbancery,-327.
In 1 Harris and Gill, 504, the petition was dismissed because it did
not aver a deficiency of personal assets. The Court of Appeals
reversed this, but only upon the ground that the deficiency might
have been proved. But here it is neither averred nor proved.
See I Bland, 415; 2 Bland, 250,472; 4 Gill and Johnson, 296. In
8 Poters, 144, the court consider this act of 1785 as an enlargement of chancery powers, and. say.that the real estate is to be
sold only when there are no personal assets. This claim was not
against the testator ; he died in 1812, and the Bank of the United
States was not chartered until 1816. If it be by assignment,
none is shown. If a guardian to the infanti had been appointed,
he could not have touched the real estate. How, then, can the

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

145

Bank of the United States v. Beverly et al.
executor invblve it? Law Reporter of March, 1840, page 1.
As to limitations: there is only a general replication filed, and no
special matter set forth in avoidance of the plea. -The argument
on the other side cannot therefore come in. 6 Peters, 64, says,
"where th& statute is pleaded, replication or amended bill must
set forth the facts to take it out of the statute." As to the effect
of limitations, 1 Bland, 91,'470; 2 Bland, 366, 8 Peters, 528;
3 Cond. Ch. Rep. 155; 4 Harris and Gill, 126, 270; 2 Gill and
Johns. 491. As to a trust reviving a debt barred by statute,
1 Russell and IMylne, 255, or 4 Cond. Ch.Rep. 413. The bill does
not aver a trust; and if there be one, who is the trustee ? If it
is the executor, the bill ought to have been against .him alone,
2 Johnson's Ch. Rep. 614, 623,.and authorities there cited.

R. Johnson, same side, examined,
1. Whether the case as presented bythe bill could be sustained,
supposing the creditors to be the creditors of the testator at his
death.
2. Whether they were in fact such eeditors.
3. Whether the answer and proof did not meetthe averments
of the bill.
4. Whether the complainants could come upon the real estate
either upon the ground of an assigned claim to the bank, or that.
the executor had overpaid.
1. The complainants can succeed. only upon one of two
grounds--upon the act of 1785, or that there was a general trust
created. It is settled in Maryland, that under the act of 1785 there
must be an ave'ment and proof of a deficiency of personal assets.
I Harris and Gill, 504. But here the bill says there was a large personal estate. As to a general trust-how can that be,.when there
is a particular part of the estate devised to pay debts, if necessary?"
Testator died in 18f2, and bill filed in 1836; in the mean time
the debt has accumulated, by interest, to $46,000; the. executor
is a creditor to $26,000, making $72,000. The trust property is
estimated at' $29,0o0; the personal estate, which the testator
thought might be insufficient, all gone, and the general estate is
to make up $43,000. The jwhole estate will not pay the debt.
Z. They were not creditors of the original estate. The executer's account begins in 1812, after testators .death, and the
VOL. I.-19
N

146

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the Upited States .v. Beverly et al.

other creditors claim by assignment; but none is shown. See
7 Harris and Johns. 134; 4 Gill and Johns. 303; 6. Gill andJohns. 4.

3. Answers rely upon limitations and lapse of time. Morrison
v. Bell, 1 Peters, decided that the court would not try to get out
of the stktute, and in.Gray and others, 1 Harris and Gill, adopts
thEL sane principle. Can the creation of a trust upon a part of
the estate prevent the statute from protecting the rest? Did not
the testator intend that his debts .should be soon paid, and the
residue of his estate go to his children, free from debt? Between
the cestui que trust and the trusted, the statute stops; but if other
parties are brought in, it is different. If it is the law which makes
this property responsible, then it is not the intention" of the testator; and if so, there was no trust, and the statute must run.
2 Story's Equity, 735, note; 2 Sch. and Lef. 630.
. 4. The dismissal of a former bill is a bar to this. 2 Story's
Equity, 740; Cooper's Pleading, 269-271; Mitford,.237.
,Sergeant,in reply, for appellants.
The hardship of this case is not on the side of~the defendants;
it is one of obstinate ingenuity on their side. Debt has never
been paid, and children have had the benefit of the personal
estate. No mismanagement of the fund anyw'here. The creditors are worse off than the family. 'The Bank of Columbia
broke along ago; if it had exacted its debt immediately, it would
have'been called a Shylock. The respondents are residuary
devisees; the t6stator first provides for his wvife, -and then for his
debts, and the will is the law of thd case. (Mr. S. here gave a
history of the case.). The bill does not profess to be under the
act of 1785. There was a special .agfeement of counsel, in which
the defendants waived any objection to the jurisdiction of the
court; &c.: they cannot now deny that the debt was due by the
testator. We were entitled to the real, in aid of the personal, in
1813, and are so 'still. A devjse of a part of the, land to ay
debts, does not exempt the rest. Whoever takes the-l.nd takes it
as a trustee. Jones v. Scott, -1 Russell and Myffie, says, that the
inteniion of a testator to make a trust, pre rents.the statute from
running. See 2 Story's Equity, 737, 741. The question in the
case is, whether the executor shall be ruined, and the legatees

JANUARY TERM, 1843.-

147

Bank of.the United StaLes v.,Beverly et aL.

get the land for nothing. The family all, concurred in what was
dofie: the heirs and'devisees-had as much right as we had to go
into chancery and have the-estate settled up. As to the former
suit being a bar, the record does not show any thing but the
answer, or whether -itwas dismissed "without prejudice."
Mr.- Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the court.
.A summary of the points decided, and principles settled in'the
former case between these parties, will save -much time- in the
investigation of those which are involved in this.
After taking a condensed view of the will of DaVid Peter, the.
court declare, that he had unquestionable right, so far as respected
his children, to charge the payment of his debts upon any part
of his estate he might think proper, and. that none -but a creditor
could control his will in that respect; that he had constituted his
widowthe trustee of the proceeds of all his estate, forthe maintenance and education of his children.; and'invested her with unlimited discretion in this respect,'so far as the proceeds of his
estate would go. Whereby the surviving executor is not ac-'
countable for any'thing so applied by her, even ijf she would be
chargeable with a devastavit, and that the. proceeds of all his
estate being thus vested ii the widow, would render it necessary,
independent of any express direction in the will, that recourse be
had to the real estate for the payment of the debts. 10. Peters;
5&2, 563.' The court then decide, that the surviving executor
had power to sell, and that it was impossible to draw any other
conclusion, than that it was the intention of the' testator that the
sale should be so made. 10 Peters, 566. . On the inquiry whether
there is any subsisting debt due from the estate of David Peter
to the banks, the court say, there is no pretence that they have
been paid in fact, and if not, the trust remains unexecuted, and
the land still remains, charged with it. If the executors hav6
paid the banks, or the banks have, accepted their notes in payment of the notes of the testator, the only effect is, that.the executors became the creditors instead of the banks, and may resort
to the trust fund to satisfy the debt Bdt the court also say, that
under the circumstances of.the case, there is.no" ground 'for con-..
sidering the debt of the banks to be extinguished, and they then
proceed to state-the result of their consideration to be:this.

148

SUPREME COURT;
Bank of the United Sfates v. Beverly et al.

That -the will created a power coupled with an interest that
survives 5 that the surviving executor is the person authorized to
exeocute-that power and fulfil that trust; that the debt due the
banks has not' been extinguished, or the estate .in any way discharged from the payment. That the executors, are not chargeable with negligence or such misapplication of the personal estateas to make them responsible for the payment of these debts; and
that from the auditor's report on the accounts of the executors,
exhibited to, and allbwed by him, there has at all times been, and
now is, a considerable balance in favour of the executors againsE
the estate. The court, then, refer to the exceptions taken to the
auditor's report, and declare them to have been properly overruled by the couirt below, and proceed to render their decree as
before referred to. 10 Peters, 569, 570So far, then, as related to the construction of the will, the disposition of the personal property, the charge of existing debts on
the real estate, the power of the executor, the 'existewce of a
trust, and their duty to execute it by a sale of the property
charged by the will, the decision of the court has' settled- the rules'
and principles on which the present controversy must be determined if they are applicable; it was made on great consideration,
founded on, uthority, and nothing which hag been urged. in the'
argument of this case has caused us to entertain the least doubt
of its entire conformity to the well established law of equity.
So far as the evidence and "facts of that case were considered atd
adjudicated, the.decree of this court is final and conclusive; the
parties and the subjects of controversy between them were the
same as are now before us; negligen ce and misapplication of
assets were charged on the executors, the existence of debts to*
them or the banks was. denied by the then complainants, and
now defendants, and both facts adjddged and decided adversely
to them; and the auditor's report was confirmed, whereby every
fact it contained became established and binding on the parties in
any future .controversy, as to any matter.thus adjudicated.
In Hopkins v. Lee, this court state the settled law of all courts
'.to be, that, as a general rule, a fact which has been directly tried
and decided by.a court of competent jurisdiction, cannot be contested again between the same parties, in the sa. .e or any other'
court. Hence a verdict and judgment of, a court of record, or a

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

149

nk of the'United States v. Beverly et al.

decree in chancery, althobugh not binding on strangers, pUts'an
end to all further controversy concern ing the pohits thus decided
between the parties to such suit. In this, there is, and ought to
be, no difference between a verdict and judgment in a court of
corimon law and, a decree of a court -of equity. They both
stand on -the same footing. 6 Wheat. 113, 114; S. P. 1 Wheat.
355; 12 Peters, 492. Whatever, therefore, our opinion might
now be as to the facts adjudicated in the former case, the-judicial power is incompetent to revise the evidence on which the decree was rendered, on any ground now set up in the answer of
the defendants, or apparent on the present record, and they must
be taken to be beyond all controvery in this or any future case
betweep the parties. Before -proceeding to consider the questions
appropriate to this cause, a reference to the case ot Fenwick v.
Chapman, 9 Peters, 466, will be useful, in order to ascertainwhat principles were there laid-down and are applicable to the
present controversy. Adoptihg the general rule that the personal
estate of a testator shall in all cases be primarily applied to the
*discharge -of his persQnal debts or general legacies, unless he by express words or manifest intefition exempt it, the .court thus
qualify the rule; where the testator's intention clearly appears
that a legacy shall be paid at all events, the real estate is made
liable on a deficiency of personal assets. So where without any
assistance from the will, the nature of the thing' to be done may
clearly show the intention to charge the real estate with a debt';
as., where the thing to be done cannot be partially performed by
the executor, without defeating the instruction which directs it,
and the thing itself.' On this principle the court holds, that the
manumission of slaves-pursuant to.the directions of a will under
the law.of Maryland(whic'h is the law of the eastern part of
this district) operates hs a specific legacy to the slaves, and to
charge the real estate with the payment of the debts of the testator, even though -he may have, at the time of his death; no
other -personal property than slaves. 9 Peters, 4711, 473. That
the creditor-may be carried into a court of equity, or voluntarily
resort to it to obtain his debt, either from, the lands or the personalty, when the testator leaves it. doubtful from what fund his
"debts aie to be paid ; that laids devised for the payment of
*debts, or which have become chargeable by implication, constitute
x2

150

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. Beverly et al.

a fund for the payment of debts, and ar ampe and plain remedy
is admitted to exist in the law -f Maryland, soto apply them:
"The will is the ezteeutor's law, and he is no more than the
testator's represbntativ.e in all things lawful in the will. A special
legacy of 'all the -personal prope'ty is a. law to him;", if there is
an insufficiency of Ifpersonal assets to pay debts, it is the executor's duty to file a bill against thd creditors and all interested. in
the estate.;" " praying that the lands may be made liable to the.
payment of. debts, that equity may be done to all toncernedaccording to the law of equity;". 9 Peters, 474, 475. When he is
charged with the, sale of the testator's lands for the payment of
debts, it is his duty to execute the whole of the testator's will;:
and in such a case the creditors- have as good a right to look to
the land through him, for the payment of their debts, as they
have to look to the goods and chattels through hih, 9 Peters, 477;
and they must pursue their claims in equity,.or according to the
statutes of Maryland subjectiig real estate to the payment of
debts, to. make their debts out of the laud,. 9 Peters, 481, 482.
These statutes ar the-4 Geo. 2, adopted in Marylana, and the
act of' 1785k c. 72, sect. 5, which is 'recited in the Bank of the
United States v. Rit6hie, 8 Peters, 143, and which this court there
declare has been construed in that state to be an enlargement of
jurisdiction, and that decrees'for selling the lands of minors and
lfnatics, in the cases prescribed by it, have been treated by the
Court of Appeals, as the exercise of other equity powers.. That
these opinions of this court are -i accordance as well with the
statutes of Maryland, and the established rules of equity in cases
of this"description, we. have no doubt; nor of their application
to the present. It must ,therefore be taken to be a settled point,
'that a disposition -by a- testator of his persopal p'roperty tq pur*poses other than the payment of his. debts, with the assent of'
creditors, is- iu itself a. charge on the real estate, subjecting it to
the payment of the debts of the estate, though no such charge is
* created by the words, of the will. A trust is thereby raised which
devolves on the executor, who. may-execute it by his own au-.
thority, or be compelled to do it by a bill filed by the creditors,
either under the statute of 1785, or in virtue of-the pogWers of a
court of equity in relation to'the execution of trusts, as the case
may be; in this case 1here.was such a trust fastened on the pra-

JANUARY TERM, -IS3.1
-Bank of the United States v. Beverly et aL.

perty in controversy by implication of law, and the presumed
intention of the testator, which can be.enforced by these complainants, unless some valid objection has been made. out by the
respondents.
*Ithas been contended that the frame of the bill is too defective.
to justify any action upon it, for the want of necessary averments,
but when we take it in connection-with the former cause to which
it refers,the agreement of the parties on file, and the-answer of
the defendants, we think that *a satisfactory answer is at hand.
'The object of the bill is clearly stated, such averments are setforth as on its' fac, shows-some equity which requires an .answer;
informal as- they may be, they ivould Stand the test of a, demurrer, especially with the aid of the "agreemen't, by which" it -appears that the defendants fully understood the nature of the plaintiff's case, the object sought..and the evidence bn which they
would rely. 'The answer is full to every matter of fact or law
which could be averred in the best drawn bill; there has l'een 'no
allegation of *surprise, or any want of notice of the grounds on
which the plaintiff rested his case, and the parties veent to. the
hearitnig on the- bill 'as it stood, fullly prepared to cQntest their respective claims, As 'they had done in the first case, of which this
was .well known to be the consequence. Under such circum-stanqes the objection is entitled to no favour, and is bat sustainable as an obstacle to our action upon the merits of the cause.
The answer sets iip'the' dismission of a bill filed by the complainants in 1827, against the defendants, for the same relief as is
prayed for in the present bill, as a bar thereto; but no rec6rd
of such case is set out or exhibited, so that, however true the
answe, may-e in fact, it cannot avail in law. Tfi this respect it
is not respoiisive to the bill'; it sets up distinct affirmative matter
of defence and bar, which the defendants must prove, or it can have
no effect for either purp9se.
The statute of limitations, and. the loss of'time frbm the death.
of David Peter to the filing-9f-the bill, are also plead and relied on,
as a br, but we think that neither cai apply. to, this case, which
is an unexecuted trust for the payment 6f debts adjudged by this
court in 1836, to be unpaid in point of fact, and'then existing in
*favoui of the banks and execufor, and the present .bil[ *as filed
soon a'fter" the decision was made.. ,The confirmation of the au-

162

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. Beverly-et a].

ditor's report, made in that case, is conclusive-to showthe amount
of such debts at that time; so is his report in this case as to their
present amount: we cannot look through these reports for the
evidence on which they were made; they have passed to judgment, and have the sanctity of records.
The remaining objections to the relief prayed for by the bill,
which are founded on the principles of the law or the rules of
equity, are covered by the former -decisions of this court; those
whichf arise froin the evidence in the cause as to matters of fact
material to our decision, are no longer open to controversy, and
we are clearly of opinion that the complainants have made out
their case in point of law and fact.
The decree of the Circuit'Court must consequently be reversed.
The cause is remanded with directions to make a decree in conformity with this opinion, by ordering a sale of the property in
controversy, and consistently with, the agreement of the parties
filed of record, and the rules of equity as to the time of disposing
of the several parts thereof, -specificallydevised by the will of
David Peter. It.is also directed', that the Circuit Court decree on
the report of an &uditor, or as they may think proper, to what
part or items of the account of George Peter, a preference ought
to be given in payment over thd other creditors of the estate'of-the
testator, and inake a final order thereon according to law and
equity.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript ot the record
from the Circuit Court of 'the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for tOe county of Washington, and was
argued 1y counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and decreed by this courti, th&t the decree of the said
Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed,
with costs, and that this cause be and the same is hereby re-.
manded to the said. Circuit Court, with directions to proceed
therein according to the opinion of this court, and in conformity
to the principles.of law and justice.

