JANUARY TERM, I843.

ARTHUR BRONSON, COMPLAINANT, V. JOHN
-A., HIS WIFE, EDMUND

K. BUSSING

H.

KINzEi

AND JULIETTE

AND JOHN S. BUSSING, THE PRE-

SIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE STATE BANE OF ILLINOIS, 'JAY HATHWAY, MARY ANN*WOLCOTT, DANIEL S. GRISWOLD,

CAROLINE DUNHAM, AND ALONZO HUNTINGTON, DEFENDANTS.
*A state law, passed subsequently to the execution of a mortgage, which declares that the equitable estate of the mortgagor shall not be extinguished for
twelve months after a sale under a decree in chancery, and which prevents
any sale unless two-thirds of the-amount at which the property has been
valued by appraisers shall be bid therefor, is-within the clause of the tenth
section of the first article of the Constitution of the United States, which prohibits a state from passing a law impairing the obligation of contracts.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
THIS case. comes before the court upon a division of opinion in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Illinois,
upon certain questions which arose in the case, and which have
been certified to this court according to the act of Congress.
It appears from the record, that, on the 13th of July, 1838, John
H. Kinzie executed -a bond to Arthur Bronson, conditioned for
the payment of $4000, on the 1st- of July, 1842, with interest
thereon, to be paid semi-annually, and, -in order to secure the
payment of the said sum of money and interest, Kinzie and irife,
on the same day, conveyed to the said Bronson, in fee simple, by
way of mortgage, one undivided half part of certain houses and
lots in the town of Chicago, with the usual proviso that the deed
should be null atnd void if-the said principal and interest *frere
duly paid, and- Kinzie, among other things, covenanted that, if
default should be made in the payment of the principal or interest, or anyypart thereof, it should be lawful for Bronson .or his
representatives to enter upon and sell the mortgaged -premises at
public auction, and, as attorney of Kinzie and wife, to convey
the same to the purchaser, and out of the moneys arising from
such sale, to retain the amount that might then be due him on
the afo.esaid bond, with the costsi.and charges of sale, rendering
the overplus, if any, to Kinzie.
The interest not having. beew paid, Bronson, on the 27th of

312

SUPREME COURT.
Bronson v. Kiaze et

1.

March, 1841, filed his bill to foreclose the mortgage. In the
mean -time, after the mortgage was made, and before the bill was
filed, the legislature of Illinois, on the 19th of February, 1841,
passed a law, the 8th section of which provided that mortgagors
and judgment creditors should have the same right to redeem
mortgaged premises sold by the decree of a court of chancery,
that had been given to the debtors and judgment creditors by a
previous law passed in 1825, in cases where lands were sold
under execution. The law of i8p5 authorized the .party whose
lands should be sold by execution, after that law took effect, to
redeem them within twelve months from the day of sale, by repaying the purchase-money with interest at. the rate of 10 per
cent., and if the debtor did not redeem it within the time limited,
any judgment creditor was authorized to do so upon the like
terms, within fifteen- months from the sale. This act, which took
effect on the 1st of May, 1825, was -held, it seems, not to xtend
to sales of mortgaged premises under a decree of foreclosure, and
the act of February 19, 1841, above mentioned, was pawed to
embrace them.
By another act of the legislature of Illinois, approved the 27th'of
February, 1841, it was directed that, "when any execution should
be issued out of any of the courts of the state, and be levied .on
any property, real or personal; or both, it should be the duty of
the officer levying such execution to-summon tnree householders
of the proper county, one of whom should be chosen by such
officer, one by the plaintiff, and one by-the defendant in the -execution, or, ih default of the parties making such choice, the officer should'choose for them, which~househblders, after being duly
sworn by such officer so to do, should fairly aiud impartially value
the property upon which such execution was levied, having
reference to its cash value, and that they should endorse the
valuation thereof upon the elecution, or upon a piece of paper
thereunto attached, signed by them, and when,'sich property
should be offered for sale, it should not lBe struck off, unless twofltrds of tht, amount of such valuation should be bid therefor."
It further proVided, among other things, that all sales of mortgaged property should be made according to the provisions of
that act, whether the foreclosiire of said 'Mortgage was by judgment at law or decree in chancery. It also directed that the pro-

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

313

Br~onson v. Kinz3Le et al.

visions of this law should extend to all judgments rendered prior
to the 1st of May,.1841, and to all judgmenti that might be rendered on any .contract or cause of action accruing prior to that
day, and not to any other judgments than as .before specified.
These are, in substance, the provisions of these acts, as far as
they are material to the present controversy.
On the 19th of. June; 1841., after the laws above mentioned
had been passed, the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district rf Illinois adopted the following rules:
"Ordered, that when the marshal shalt'levy an execution upon
real estate, he shall have it appraised and sold under the provisions of the law of this state, entitled '.An act regulating the sale
of property,' approved February 27, 1841, if the case come
within the provisions of that law, and any two or three householders selected under the law, agreeing, may make 1he valuation
of the premises requited.
"Before the sale of any real estate on execution, the marshal
shall give notice thirty days in a newspaper published in the
county where the land lies, and if there be no paper published
in the county, then the notice shall be- given thirty days before
the sale, by notice, as the statute requires. The court adopt the
8th section of the act of this state, to amend the act concerning
judgments, &c., passed 19th of February, 184"1, which regulates
the sale of mortgaged premises, &e., except where special direction shall be given in the decree of sale."
After these rules were adopted-that is to say, at December
term, 1841-the bill filed by Bronson, as hereinbefore mentioned,
came on for final hearing in the Circuit Court, and thereupon
the complainant moved the court for a final decree of strict foreclosure of said mortgage, or that the mortgaged premises shouild
be sold to the highest bidder, without being subject to said rule
and the act referred to. This motion was resisted on part of defendants, who moved that the decree should direct the sale according to said rule and act.
And the judges being opposed in opinion on the following
points, to wit.
1. Whether the decree in this -case should be so entered as to
direct the sale of the said mortgaged premises according to the
said statute of the state*of -Illinois above mentioned, or whether
VOL. I.-40

2 D

SUPREME COURT
Bronson v. Kinzie et al.

the same premises should be sold at public auction, to the highest
bidder, without regard to the said law
2., Whether the decree in this case shall or shall not direct the
sale of the mortgaged premises, without being first valued by
three householders, and witholit requiring two-thirds .of the
amount of the said valuation to be bid, according to the said act
of the state of Illinois.
3. Whether the terms of the mortgage in this case do or do
not require it to be excepted from the operation of the rule above
recited.
On motion of the complainant, it was ordered and directed that
this cause, with said points, be certified to the Supreme Court, in
pursuance of the act of Congress. And it is upon these questions, thus certified, that the case is now before us; and the 8th
section of the act of February 19th, and the entire act of February 27, are set forth at large in the record, as the laws referred
to in the above-mentioned rules of the Circuit Court. The case
has been submitted to the court, for decision, by a written agree-

ment between the counsel on both sides. On the part of the
complainant, a printed argument has been filed, but none has
been offered on behalf of the defendant. As the case involves a
constitutional question of great importance, we should have preferred a full argument at the bar. But the parties are entitled,
by the rules of the court, to bring it before us in the manner they
have adopted, and it being our duty to decide the questions certified to us by the Circuit Court, we have bestowed upon the
subject the careful and deliberate consideration which its importance demands.
Upon the points certified, the question is, whether the laws of
Illinois, of the 19th and the 27th of February, 1841, come within
that clause of the 10th section of the 1st article of the Constitution of the United States, which prohibits a state from passing a
law impairing the obligation of contracts.
The laws of a state, regulating the process of its courts, and
prescribing the manner in which it shall be executed, of course,
do. not bind the courts of the United States, whose proceedings
must be governed by the acts of Congress. The act of 1792,
however, adopted the process used in the state courts, as it stood
in 1789, and, since then, the act of 1828, on Athe same subject,

JANUARY TERM. 1843.

815

Branson v. Kinzie et a].

has been passed and-the Sa section of this law directs that final
process issued on judgments qnd decrees in any of the courts of
the United States, and the proceedings thereupon, shall be the
same, except their style, in each state, respectively, as were then
used in the courts of such state, and authorizes the courts 'fthe
United States, if they see fit, in their discretion, by rules of court,
so far to alter final process as to conform the same to any change
which might afterwards be adopted, by the legislatures of the
respective states, for the state courts. Any acts of a state legislature, therefore, in relation to final, process, passed -since 1828,
are of no force in the courts of the United States, unless adopted
by rules of court, according to the provisions of this act of Congress. And, although such state laws may have been so aciopted,
yet, they are inoperative and of no force, if in conflict with the
Constitution or an act of -Congress.
As concerns the obligations of the contract upon which this
controversy has arisen, they depend upon the laws of Illinois asthey stood at the time the mortgage deed was exectited. The
money due was indeed to be paid in-New York. But the -mortgage given to secure the debt was made in Illinois for real
property situated in that state,.and the rights which the mortgagee
acquired in the premises depended upon the laws of th it state.
In other words, the existing laws of Illinois created and defined
the legal and equitable obligations of the mortgage contract.
If the laws of the state passed afterwards had done nothing
more than change the remedy upon contracts of this description,
they would be liable to no constitutional objection. For, undoubtedly, a state may regulate at pleasure the modes of proceeding in
its courts in relation to past contracts as well as future. It may,
for example, shorten the. period of time within which claims sball
be barred by the statute of limitations. It may, if it thinks proper, direct that the necessary implements of agriculture, or the
tools of the mechanic, or articles of necessity in household furniturej shall, like wearing apparel, not be liable to. execution on
judgments. Regulations of this description have always been
considered, in every civilized community, as properly belonging
to the remedy, to be exercised or not by every sovereignty, according to i6 own views of policy and'humanity It'must reside
in every state to enable it to secure its citizens from unjust-arid

316

SUPREME COURT.
Bronson v. K'inzie et a].

harassing litigation, and to protect them in those pursuits which
are necessary to the existence and well-being of every community
And. although a new remedy may be deemed less convenient
than the old one, and may in some degree render the recovery
of debts more tardy and difficult, yet it will not follow that the
law is unconstitutional. Whatever belongs merely to the remedy
may be altered according to the will of the state, provided the
alteration does not impair the obligation of the contract. But
if that effect is produced, it is immaterial. whether it is done by
acting on the remedy or directly on the-contract itself. In either
case it is prohibited by the Constitution.
This subject came before the Supreme Court in the case of
Green v. Biddle, decided in 1823, and reported in 8 Wheat. 1.
It appears to have been twice elaborately argued by counsel on
both sides, and deliberately considered by the court. On the part
of the demandant in that case, it was insisted that the laws of
Kentucky passed in 1797 and 1812, concerning occupying claimants of land, impaired the obligation of the compact made with
Virginia in 1789. On the other hand, it was contended that these
laws only regulated the remedy, and did not operate on the right
to the lands. In deciding the point the court say, "It is no
answer that the acts of Kentucky now in question are regulations
of the remedy, and not of the right to the lands. If these acts so
change the nature and eitent of existing remedies as materially
to impair the rights and interests of the owner, they are just as
much a violation of the compact as if they directly overturned
his rights and interests." And m the opinion delivered by the
court after the second argument, the same rule is reiterated in
language equaly strong. (See pages 75.1 76, dnd 84.)
This
* "Nothing, in short, can be more clear, upon principles'of law and reason,
than that a law which denies to the owner of land a remedy to'recover the possession of it when withheld by any person, however innocently he may have
obtained it; or to recoyer the profits received from it by the occupant, or which
clogs his recovery of such possession and profits, by conditions and restrictions
tending to diminish the value and amount of the thing recovered, impairs his
right to, and interest in, the property. If there be ,io remedy to recover the
possession, the law necessarily presumes a want of right to it. If the remedy
afforded be qualified.and restrajned by conditions ot any kind, the right of the
owner may indeed, subsist, and be acknowledged, but it is impaired, and rendered
insecure, according to the nature and extent of such restriotionsr 8 Wheat. 75.

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

317

Bronson v. Kinzie et al.

judgment of the court is entitled to the more weight, becarse the
opinion is stated in the report of the case to have been unanimous, and Judge Washington, who was the only member of the
court absent at the first argument, delivered the opinion Qf the
-second.
We concur entirely in the correctness of the rule above stated.
It is difficult, perhaps, to draw a line that would be applicable m
all cases between legitimate alterations of the remedy and provisions which, In the form of remedy, impair the right. But it
is manifest that the obligation of the contract, and the rights of a
party under it, may, in effect, be destroyed by denying a remedy
altogether; or may be seriously impaired by burdening the proceedings with new conditions and restrictions; so as to make the
remedy hardly worth pursuing. And no one, we presume, would
say that there is any substantial difference between a retrospective law declaring a particular contract or class of contracts to be
abrogated and void, and one which took away all remedy to enforce them, or encumbered it with conditions that rendered it
useless or impracticable to pursue it. Blackstone, in his Commentaries on the Laws of England, 1 vol. 55, after having treated of the
declaratory and directory parts of the law, defines the remedial
in the following words
"The remedial part of the law is so necessary a consequence
of the former two, that laws must *be'very vague and imperfect
without it. For, in vain would rights be declared, in vain directed to be observed, if there were no method of recovering and
asserting those -rights when wrongfully withheld, or invaded.
This is what we mean' properly when we speak of the protection
of the law
When, for instance, the declaratory part of the law
has said that the field or inheritance which belonged to Titius's
father is vested by his death in Titius; and the directory part has
forbidden any one to enter on another's property without the
leave of the owner, if Gaius, after this, will presume to take
possession of the land, the remedial part of the law will then interpose its office, will make Gains restore the possession to Titius,
and also pay him damages for the invasion."
We have quoted the entire paragraph, because it shows, in a few
plain words, and illustrates by a familiar example, the connection
of the remedr with the right. It is the part of the municipal law
2

D2

SUPREME COURT.
Bronson v. Kinzie et al.

which protects.the right, and the obligation by which it enforces
and maintains it. It is this protection which the clause in the
Constitution now in question mainly intended to secure. And it
would be unjust to the memory of the distinguished men who
framed it, to suppose that it was designed to protect a me.e barren and abstract right, without any practical operation upon the
business of life. It was undoubtedly adopted as a part of the
Constitution for a great and useful purpose. It was to maintain
the integrity of contracts, and to secure their faithful execution
throughout this Union, by placing them under the protection of
the Constitution of the United States. And it would but ill become this court, under any circumstances, to depart from the
plain meaning of the words used, and to sanction a distinction between the right and the remedy, which would render this provision illusive and nugatory, mere words of form, affording no
protection, and producing no practical result.
We proceed to apply these principles to the case before us.
According to the long-settled rules of law and equity in all of the
states whose jurisprudence has been modelled upon the principles
of the common law, the legal title to the premises in question
vested in the complainant, upon the failure of the mortgagor to
comply with the conditions contained in the proviso, and at law,
he had a right to sue for and recover the lana itself. But, in
equity, this legal title is regarded as a trust estate, to secure the
payment of the money; and, therefore, when the debt is discharged,
there is a resulting trust for the mortgagor. Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company, I Peters, 441. It is upon this construction of the contract, that courts of equity lend their aid either to
the mortgagor or mortgagee, in order to enforce their respective
rights. The court will, upon the application of the mortgagor,
direct the reconveyance of the property to him, upon the payment of the money, and, upon the application of the mortgagee,
it-will order a sale of the property to discharge the debt. But,
as courts of equity follow the law, they acknowledge the legal
title of the mortgagee, and never deprive him of his right at la.w
until his debt is paid, and he is entitled to the aid of the court to
extinguish the equitable title of the mortgagor, in- order that he
may obtain the benefit of his security For this purpose, it is his
absolute and undoubted right, under an ordinary mortgage deed,

JANUARY TERM, 1843.
3ronson v. Kinzie et al.

if the money is not paid at the appointed day, to go into th6Court
of Chancery, and obtain its order for the sale of the whole mortgaged property, (if the whole is necessary,) free and disdharged
from the equitable interest of the mortgagor. This is his right,
by the law of the contract, and it is the duty of the court to maintain and enforce it, without any unreasonable delay.
When this contract was made, no statute had been passet by
the state changing the rules of law or equity in relation to a contract of this kind. None such, at least, has been brought to the
notice of the court, and it must, therefore, be governed, and the
rights of the parties, under it measured, by the rules above stated.
They were the laws of Illinois at the time, and, therefore, entered
into the contract, and formed a part of it, without any. express
stipulation to that effect in the deed. Thus, for example, there is
no covenant in the instrument giving the mortgagor the right to
redeem, by paying the money after the day limited in the deed,
and before he was foreclosed by the decree of the Court of Chancery Yet no one doubts his right or his remedy, for, by the
laws of the state then in force, this right and this remedy were a
part of the law of the contract, without any express agreement
by the parties. So, also, the rights of the mortgagee, as knovn
to the laws, required no express stipulation to defiue or secure
them. They were annexed to the contract at the time it was
made, and formed a.part of it, and any subsequent law, inpairing the rights thuz acquired, impairs the obligations which the contract imposed.
This brings us to examine the statutes of Illinois which have
given rise to this controversy. As -concerns the law of February
19, 1841, it appears to the court not to act merely on the remedy,
but directly upon the contract itself, and to engraft upon it new
conditions injurious and unjust to the mortgagee. It declares
that, although the mortgaged.premises should be sold under the
decree of the Court of Chancery, yet that the equitable estate of
the mortgagor shall not be extinguished, but shall continue for
twelve months after the sale, and it moreover gives a new and
like estate, which before had no existence, to the judgment creditor, to.continue for fifteen months. If such rights may be added
to the original contract by subsequent legislation, it would be
difficult to say at what point they must stop.
An equitable

320

SUPREME CODRT.
Bronson v. Kinzie et a].

interest in the.premises may, in like manner, be conferred upon
others, and the right to redeem may be so prolonged, as to deprive the mortgagee of the benefit of his security, by rendering
the property unsaleable for any thing like its value. This law
gives to the mortgagor, and to the judgment creditor, an equitable
estate in the premises which neither of them would have been
entitled to under the original .contract, and these new interests
are directly and materially in conflict 'with those which the mortgagee acquired when the mortgage was made. ALy such modification of a contract by subsequent legislation, against the consent
of one of the parties, unquestionably impairs its obligations, and
is prohibited by the Constitution.
The second point certified arises under the law of February 27,
1841. The observations already made in relation to the other
act apply with equal force to this. It is true that this law apparently acts upon the remedy, and not directly upon the contract.
Yet its effect is to deprive the party of his pre-existipag right to
foreclose the mortgage by a sale of the preniises, and to impose
upon him conditions which would frequently render any sale
altogether impossible. And this law is still more 6bjectionable,
because it is not a general one, and prescribing the mode of selling mortgaged premises in all cases, but is confined to judgments
rendered, and contracts made, prior to the 1st of May, 1841.
The act was passed on the 27th of February in that year; and it
operates mainly on past contracts, and not on future. If the contracts intended to be affected by it had been specifically enumerated in the law, and these conditions applied to them, while
other contracts of'the same description were to be.enforced in the
ordinary course of legal proceedings, no one would doubt that
such a law was unconstitutional. Here a particular class of contracts is selected, and encumbered with these new conditions;
and it can make no difference, in principle, whether they are described by the names of the parties, or by the time at which they
were made.
In the case before us, the conflict of these laws with the obligations of the contract is made the more evident by an express
covenant contaihed in the instrument itself, whereby the mortgagee, in default of payment, was authorized to enter on the
premises, and sell them at public auction, and to retain out

JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

821

Bronson v. Kinzie et al.
of the money thus raised, the amount due, and to pay the overplus,
if any, to the mortgagor. It is impossible to read this covenant,
and compare it with the laws now under consideration, without
seeing that both of these acts.materially interfere with the express
agreement of the parties contained in this covenant. Yet, the
right here secured to the mortgagee is substantially nothing more
than the right to sell, free and discharged of the equitable interest
of Kinzie and wife,.in order to &btain4is .money. Now, at the
time this deed was executed, the right to sell, free and discharged
of the equitable estate of the mortgagor, was a part of every ordinary contract of mortgage in the state, without the aid of this express covenant, and the only difference oetween the right annexed by law and that given by the covenant consists in this
that in the former case, the right of sale must be exercised under
the direction of the Court of Chancery, upon such terms as it shall
prescribe, and the sale made by an agent of the court, in the
latter, the sale is to be made by the party himself. But, even
under this covenant, the sale made by the party is so far subject
to the supervision of the court, that it will be set aside, and a new
one ordered, if reasonable notice is not given, or the pro6eedings
be regarded, in any respect, as contrary to equity and ;dstice.
There is, therefore, in truth but little material difference between
the rights of the mortgagee with or without this covenant. The
distinction consists rather in the form of the remedy, than in the
substantial right, and as it is evident that the laws in question
invade the right secured by this covenant, there can be no sound
reason for a different conclusion, where similar rights are incorporated by law into the contract, and form a part of it at the time it
.is made.
Mortgages made since the passage of these laws must undoubtedly be governed by them, for every state has the power
to prescribe the legal and equitable obligations of a contract to
be made and executed within its jurisdiction. It may exempt
any-property it thinks proper from sale, for the payment of a
debt, and may impose-such conditions and Testrictions upon the
creditor as its judgment and policy may dictate. And all future
contracts would be seibject to such provisions; and they would
be obligatory upon the parties in the courts of the United States,
as well as in those of the- state. We speak, of course, of conVOL. I.-41

322

SUPREME COURT.
Bronson v. Kiuzie et al.

tracts made and to be executed in the state. It is a case of that
description that is now before us, and we do not think it proper
to go beyond it.
Upon the questions presented by the Circuit Court, we therefore answer"
1.That the decree should direct the premises to be sold at public auction to- the highest bidder, without regard to the lw of
February 19, 1841, which gives the right of redemption to the
mortgagor for twelve months, and to the judgment -creditor for
fifteen.
2. That the decree should direct the sale of the mortgaged premises, without being first valued by three householders, and without requiring two-thirds of the amount of the said valuation to
be bid according to, the law of February 27, 1841.
The decision of these two questions disposes of the third. And
we shall direct these answers to be certified to the Circuit Court.*
Mr. Justice McLEAN dissented,
The act of Illinois of the 27th February, 1841, does not apply
to the case *under consideration. The rule of the Circuit Court
adopting that act, limits it to executions on judgments at law It
can have no application, therefore, to any proceeding in chancery.
The only rule ad.o'ted in relation to a chancery proceeding, is
that which gives the mortgagor a year within which tG redeem
the premises sold, on the payment of the.purchase-money and
10 per cent. interest, agreeably to the 8th section of the act of
19th February, 1841. Arid that rule was to operate only in decrees of foreclosure and salb, where a different order was not
made. So .that, in fact, no -positive rule was adopted ii Illinois
by the Circuit'Coutt in relation to sales of mortgaged premisesunder a decree.
By the rules regulating chancery proceedings adopted by this
court at its last term, it is supposed the above rule and all others
regulating the practice in chancery was rescinded. But this is
not material. The points certified would be answered by saying,
that the acts of the legislature referred .to can have no operation
Present Mr. Chief Justice TAEy, and Justices THo:,resoX, MCLZx, BAT..
CATnoN, and DJIizL.

wix, WV.ZI,

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

323

Bronson v. kinzie et al.

in the case, as no state law can govern the proceedings of a
chancery court of the United States.
Under such circumstances, I cannot but regret that the court
have deemed it necessary or proper to consider the constitutionality of the above acts, and to hold that they are unconstitutional.
The decision of the-matters before the court does not require this
judgment. And it is the more to be regretted, as there was no
argument, written or oral, to sustain these laws. Heretofore this
court have not deemed it proper to act on so grave a subject as
the constitutionality of a state law, unless the question were essentially involved in the decision of the case before them.
The act of the 27th of February, 1841, is held to be unconstitutional as regards all contracts or mortgages entered into prior to
its enactment, because it requires real property levied on by execution to be appraised and to sell for two-thirds of its value.
.As preliminary to an examination of this question, 1 will take
a cursory review of the policy and laws of the federal government in respect to state process. By the act of the 29th September, 1789, it is provided, "that the forms of writs and executions,
except their style, in the. Circuit and District Courts, in suits at
common law, shall be the same in each state respectively as are
now used, or allowed, in the Supreme Court of the same."
Again By the act of the 8th of lay, 179-9, the above provision is re-enacted, "subject to such alterations and additions as
the courts respectively shall, in their discretion, deem expedient,
or to such regulations as the Supreme Court of the United States
shall think proper, from time to time, by rule to prescribe to any
Circuit or District Court concerning the same."
Ii the 8th section of the act of the 2d March, 1793, it is provided, "that where it is now required by the laws of any state,
that goods taken in execution,- on a writ of fierz faczas, shall be
appraised previous to the sale thereof, it shall be lawful for the
appraisers appointed under the authority of the state to appraise
goods taken in execution on a fie2i .faczas issued out of any
court of'the United States, in the same manner as if such writ
-had issued out of a state court." And it is nmade the duty of the
marshal to summou appraisers, &c,
Under the foregoing process acts, a question was made in the
stateof Kentucky, whether-the executions from the Circuit Court

SUPREME COURT
Bronson v. Kinzie et al.

of the United States should be governed by the. laws of that
state. In the case of Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 2, among
several points certified .from the Circuit Court, for the decision of
this court, were the two following.
"That, if the statutes of Kentucky, in relation to executions,
are binding on this court, viz.. the statute which requires the
plaintiff to endorse on the execution, that bank notes of the Bank
of Kentucky, or notes of the Bank of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, will be received in payment, or that the defendant
may replevy the debt for two years, are in violation of the Constitution of the United States."
4"l
That all the statutes of Kentucky, which authorize a defendant to give a replevin bond, in satisfaction of a judgment or
execution are unconstitutional and void."
This court held that the process acts of "1789, and of 1792, did
not apply to states subsequentlyadmitted into the Union, and
that as the act regulating executions had not been adopted by the
Circuit Court of the United States for Kentucky, it could, not regulate final process in that court. But the court did not deem it
necessary or proper to decide on the constitutionality of the laws
referred to.
In the case of -the Bank of the United States v. Halstead,
10 Wheat. 51, a point was certified from the Circuit Court of Kentucky, involving the question, whether "the act of Assembly of
Kentucky, of the 21st December, 1821, which prohibits the sale
of property taken under-executions for less than three-fourths of
its appraised value,.was repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States." And this court held, Judge-Thompson giving
the opinion, as in the case of Wayman v. Southard, that the law
of the state did not apply to the courts of the Uited States, it"
never having been adopted. And they remark "This renders
it unnecessary to'inquire into the constitutionality of the law of
Kentucky."
These cases in principle are analogous to the one finder consideration. The only rule of court affecting a proceeding in
chancery having been repealed or rescinded by the general- rules
adopted by this court at its last term, and if not repealed does not
apply, the laws of the state of Illinois, as regards the proceeding
under consideration, are as mapplicable as were the laws of Ken-

JANUARY TERM, 1843.
Bronson v, Kinzie et al.

tucky in the above cases. And it is a subject of regret, that the
precedent of the above cases has not been followed in the present
decision.
Out of the above decisions grew the process act of the 19th
May, 1828. That act declares, "that writs of executionand other
final process, issued on judgments and decrees rendered iii any
of the courts of the United States, and the proceedings thereupon,
shall be the same as are now used in the courts of the state."
And power was given to ".the courts, if they shall see fit in their
discretion, by rules of courts, so far to alter final process in said
courts as to conform the same to any change which may be
adopted by the legislatures of the respective states for the state
courts."
The above enactments show that the settled policy of the federal government is, to adopt the state laws regulating final process.
And so far as the acts of Congress have operated, state laws
have governed executions in the federal courts.
In Virginia real estate is not liable to be sold on execution. In
Connecticut, and, I believe, in Massachusetts, lands are taken in
satisfaction of judgments on a valuation. In Ohio, and in many
of the other states, real estate must be sold for one-half or twothirds of its valuation. In Indiana, and in some of the other
states, the defendant has a right within twelve months to redeem
his land sold on execution, on paying some 10 or 12 per cent.
interest. In Virginia, Mississippi, and some of the other states,
forthcoming bonds are given, which suspend further proceedings
on executions, and in some degree changes the security under
the judgment.
Now.these laws prevail in some of the states, and there is no
reason why, under the ConstitutiQn, they. may not be adopted in
all of them. If Virginia may withdraw her lands from execution, and Ohio admit them to be sold under a valuation, why may
not Illinois do the same?
But I understand the objection to the Illinois statute is, its
limited operation and its applicability to prior contracts.
The 2d section of the act provides., that it "shall extend to all
judgments rendered prior to the 1st of May, 1841, and to all
judgments that may be rendered on any contract or cause of action, accruing prior to the 1st May, 1841."
2E

326

SUPREME COURT
Bronson v. Kinzie et aL

This provision may seem to be somewhat capricious and of
doubiful policy; but the inquiry must be, does it violate the Constitution of the United States? On the 27th February, 1841, this
law was enacted, and although it is limited in its effects, yet it is
general in its provisions. And I know of no power in the Constitution to limit the legislative discretion of the states as to the
duration of their enactments. The only question under this act
as to its constitutionality must be, whether it impairs the obligations of contracts entered into before it was passed. And in this
view, the quesfion arises, whether the remedy, in the sense of the
Constitution, can be considered as a: part of the contract.
That the law objected to is remedial, no one can controvert. It
does not purport to act upon contracts, but modifies the remedy
for the enforcement of contracts. But my brethren suppose, that.
as this remedy may be retarded by the limitation on tthe sale of
-land under judgments,. the obligation of the contract is thereby
impaired. This conclusion can only be sustained on the ground
that the remedy is a part of the contract. On this hypothesis
every contract embraces the existing remedy, and that remedy
cannot be protracted by the legislature. This is a question of
constitutional power, and cannot be affected by any notions of
expediency. If the remedy be so modified as to protract the recovery of a debt a week, or a month, in the view now taken by
the court, it impairs the obligation of the contract as clearly as
any longer period of time. The question cannot, in any degree,
depend upon time. What could be more preposterous than to
say the legislature of a state may prolong the remedy a week, a
month, or three months, but cannot prolong it beyond that period?
Where shall this judicial discretion find a limit? Ther6 must be
some limit. If the legislature may not modify the remedy at
their discretion, in regard to existing contracts, they must be prohibited from making any change. Any departure from this
rule of construction must depend upon the arbitrary decision
of the courts. And each court, in this respect, may exercise
its own discretion, until- the question shall be settled bv this
tribunal.
But the question may be asked, suppose. the legislature shall
repeal all remedy, is the contract not thereby impaired;' This
question may be asked with no more propriety and effect than

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

327

Bronson v. Kinzie et al.

many others. May not a state fail to appoint judges, clerks, and
other officers essential to the administration of justice?
I am aware that, in .the case of Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 17,
this court say "It is no answer, that the acts of Kentucky, now
in question, are regulations of the remedy, and not of the right to
lands. If these adts- so change the nature and extent of ex-.
isting remedies as materially to impair the rights and interests of
the owner, they are just as much a violation of the compact as
if they directly overturned his rights and interests."
The above question arose under the compact between Virginia
and Kentucky, which declared, "that all private rights and interests of lands, within Kentucky, derived from the laws of Virginiq prior to such separation, shall remain valid, and secure -under
the laws of the proposed state, and shall be determined by the
laws then existing in the state of Virginia."
The above article, say the court in their opinion, 41declares in
the most explicit terms that all private rights and interests of lands,
derived from the laws of Virginia, shall remain valid and secure
under the laws of Kentucky, -and shall be determined by the
laws then existing in Virginia. It plainly imports, therefore, that
these rights and interests, as to their nature and extent, shall be
exclusively determined by the laws of Virginia, and that their
security and validity shall not be in any way impaired by the
laws of Kentucky Whatever law therefore, of Kentucky does
narrow these rights and limmnsh these interests, is a violation of
the compact, and is consequently unconstitutional."
And again the court observe "fThe only question, therefore, is,
whether the acts of 1797 and 1812 have this effect. It is undeniable that no acts of a similar character were in existence in
Virginia at the time when.the compact was made, and, therefore, no aid can be derived from the actual legislation of Virginia
to support them." These. atcts were held to abridge the rights of
the holder under the Virginia fitle, and, whether remedial or
otherwise, were consequently repugnant to thd compacf. 'By. the
compact, the rights and interests of the Virginia claimant, both-as
to their nature and extent, say the court, were to be exclusively
determined by the laws of Virginia. In other-words, where rights
are to be determined by one law, another and a repugnant law
can have no influence upon them. And this was the point

828

SUPREME COURT.
Bronson v. Kinzie et al.

adjudged in the case of Green v. Biddle. The question did not
arise under the Constitution of the United States, but under the
compact.
In the case of Sturges v. Crowninslueld, 4 Wheat. 200, the late
chief justice says "The distinction between the obligation of a
contract and the remedy given by the legislature to enforce that
obligation, has been taken at the bar, and exists in the nature of
things. Without impairing the obligation of the contract, the
remedy may certainly be modified as the wisdom of the nation
shall direct." This is the true principle laid down in explicit
terms.
The doctrine that the remedy constitutes a part of the contract*
is a mere abstraction, which cannot be carried into practical ope.ration. If the doctrine. be sound, it secures the means for the
enforcement of the contract at its date.
Now does any one doubt that a state legislature may abolish
imprisonment for debt, as well on past as future contracts Here
is a modification of the remedy, which takes away a means, and
often a lrincipal means, of enforcing the payment of the debt.
And yet this is admitted by all to be a constitutional law Nor
does any one doubt the constitutionality of a statute of limitations. This operates upon contracts entered into before its enactment, and bars the right of action.
Now, if the remedy existing at the time of the contract is a
part of the contract, the state legislature cannot modify the remedy, much less, as by the above statute, take it away It is no
answer to this argument to say, that the statutory bar' is only
interposed where the obligee has been grossly negligent. There
was no such condition of vigilance at the date of the contract,
and if the above argument be sound, no subsequent action of the
legislature can impair its obligation by materially retarding its
enforcement, much less by barring the remedy.
The argument in favour of the statute is, that it does not act
upon the contract, but withdraws the remedy. Now if this be a
constitutional exercise of power by a state legislature, surely the
exercise of the lesser power, by modifying the remedy at discretion, must also be constitutional. Does not the greater power
include.the lesser? The power,'whether exercised in passing a
statute of limitations, or in modifying the laws in relation to

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

329

Bronson v. Xinzie et al.

judgments and executions, acts upon the remedy In both instances the enactments constitute the laws of the forum. And in
my judgment, they depend upon the same power over the remedy
But if the remedy be a part of the contract, how must it be applied? Instead of looking to the laws regulating judicial proceedings at the time the action is brought, the court must look to
the date of the contract and the laws then in force. The contract,
in this view, gives -itality to laws annulled by the legislature, and
the law of the remedy becomes as diversified as the contracts to
which it is applied. Can such a rule of construction be enforced?
How is a contract made in one state to be enforced in another?
If the remedy in the state where the contract is made enter into
it, does it carry this remedy into another jurisdiction? This will
not be contended, and why not? If the contract within the
state include the law of the remedy, why does it not carry into a
foreign jurisdiction the same conditions? Every contract does
this, which is governed by the local law A contract for the payment of money, made and to be performed m the state of New
York, bears 7 per cent. interest. And this rate of interest is recovered on the contract, in a state where 7 per cent. would be usurious. And so of every other contract made under a local l'aw,
however repugnant may be its conditiois to the laws and policy
of the jurisdiotion where the remedy is sought. This is emphatically the law of the contract. And if. the remedy be also the
law of the contract, it must follow the-contract wherever it shall
be prosecuted. If this be not the case, the argument falls, the
remedy exists independently of the contract, and does not constitute a part of it.
A contract void by the local law on the ground of usury, or
because it is against the policy of the law, can be enforced nowhere. There is no exception to the principile that where a contract is entered into under-the sanctions of a state law, that law
governs the contract in whatever jurisdiction suit may be brought
on it. And so where a contract is made in one state to be performed m another, the place of performance gives the law of the
contract. But in no case does the remedy attach -tsel to the contract, so as to constitute a part of it. Such -an idea is too abstract
for practical operations. At most, it could ornly affect contracts
sued on in the state where they were made. Such a principle
VOL. .- 42
.2 E 2

380

SUPRP-ME COURT
BroiAson v. Kinzie et al;

could not be carried out. It would diversify the remedy to ar
impracticable extent.
Every-contract is entered into with a supposed knowledge by
the parties, that the law-making power may modify the remedy.
And this it may do, at its discretion, so far as it acts only -on the
remedy It may regulate the mode in which process shall be
issued and served, how the pleadings shall be filed, and at what
term judgment shall or may be entered. And it may also regulate final process. It may require that the personal property of
ihe defendant shall be levied on and sold, before land shall be
taken in execution. It may say what notice shall be given on
the sale of real estate on execution, and also require that it shall
sell for one-half or two-thirds of its value. A valuation law in
those stat~s where it has been adopted- has been found salutary
in guarding the rights of debtor and creditor. A debtor, under
this 'law, cannot defeat the claim of his .creditor, by purchasing
the real estate levied on, through the agency of a friend, at a nominal price, and this protects the rights of the creditors of the defendant generally. There may be some cases of hardship to creditors under such a law, but they must be few and unimportant in
comparison with the benefits secured by the law both to creditors
and debtors. Some restriction on the sale of land .onexecution is
required by a sound policy, especially in new and rising states,
where real property can scarcely be said to have'a final value.
But this law is supposed to be unconstitutional from its retrospective effect. I had supposed that such a supposition could not
be raised, under the decision of this court.
In the case- of Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Peters, 407, "the
plaintiff, at the trial, set up .a title under a warrant dated the 10th
January, 1812, founded upon an improvement in the year 1786,
which.it was admitted-was under a Connecticut title, and a patent
dated 19th February, 1818.
"eThe defendant claimed title under a patent issued to John
Wharton in the year 1781, and a conveyance by him to Satterlee
in 1812." Some time in the year 1790, the defendant bad come
into possession as tenant to the plaintiff, and it was insisted that
the defendant was estopped from setting up his title. The Court
of Common Pleas decided in favour of the plaintiff, but on a writ
of error, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania held, that "by the

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

331

Bronson v. iinzie et al.

settled law of that state, the relation of landlord and tenant could
not subsist under a Connecticut. title." Upon which ground the
judgment was reversed, and a venr-efaczasde novo was awarded.
On the 8th day of April, 1826, and before the second trial of
the cause took place, the legislature of that state passed a law,
declaring, "that the relation of landlord and tenant shall exist,
and be held as fully and effectually between Connecticut settlers
and Pennsylvania .claimants, as -between other citizens of thig
commonwealth, on the trial of any cause -now pending~or hereafter to'be brought within this commonwealth, any law or usage
to the contrary notwithstanding." Under the instruction of the
court in accordance with that statute, the jury found a verdict for
the plaintiff, on which judgment was entered. This judgment,
on being removed by writ of error to the*Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, was affirmed. On the ground that the above statute
impaired the obligation of the contract between Satterlee and
Matthewson, the cause was removed to this court from the Su,
preme Court of Pennsylvania, by a vrit of error.
In their opinion this court say, "If the effect of the statute in
question be not to impair the obligation of the contract, is there
any other part of the Constitution of the United States to which
-it is repugnant? It is said to be retr~spective. Be it so, but
retrospective laws which do not impair the obligation of contracts,
or partake of the character of ex post facto laws, are not condemned or forbidden by any part of that instrument."
And again, "The objection is urged that the effect of this act
was to divest rights which were vested by law in Satterlee.
There is certainly no-part of the Constitution of the United Sfates
which applies to a state law of this description, nor are we aware
of any decision of this, or of any Circuit Court, which condemned
such ala upon this ground."
Here was a direct legislation not only on existing rights grow
ing out of contracts, but such an effect was given to the law a;
to divest vested rights. And yet this act was held not to be in
violation of the Constitution of the United States.
What vested right is there or can there be, in the nature of
-things, in the holder of a contract to the particular remedy for its
enforcement which existed at its date ' But if there were such a
vested right as to the remedy, which there is not, it may, under

832

SUPREME COURT.
Bronson v. Kinzie et a].

the above authority, be divested by law If the decision do not
mean this, it means nothing.
A state legislature cannot impair the contract by changing the
time or manner of its performance. By the contract, the parties
have fixed their rights and obligations; and these are guarded
by the Constitution. But the remedy for the enforcement of the
contract being established by the law-making power, may be
modified at its discretion. This is admitted as regards subsequent
contracts, but the same rule applies to prior ones. So far as the
mere remedy is concerned, in my judgment, no sound and practical distinction can be drawn between prior and future contracts.
I think, in the case under consideration, that the laws of Illinois referred to do not apply, and, therefore, I agree to the
answers given by the court to the points certified.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the- Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Illinois, and on the points and questions on which the judges of the
said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which were
certified tb this court for its opinion agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court,
1st. That the decree should direct the premises to be sold at public auction to the highest bidder, without regard to the law of
February 19th, 1841, which gives the right of redemption to the
mortgagor for twelve months, and to the judgment creditor f6r
fifteen. 2d. That the decree should direct the sale of the mortgaged premises without being first valued by three householders,
and without requiring two-thirds of the amount of the said valuation to be bid according to the law of February 27th, 1841, and
that the decision of these two questions disposes of the third.
t
is thereupon now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
,it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

