SUPREME COURT.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM LINN AND
OTHERS.

A plaintiff may, in an action in form ex delicto against several defendants, enter
a.nolle prosequi'against one of them. But in actions in form cx contractu, unless
the defence be merely in the personal discharge of one of the defendants, a
,noleprosegui cannot be entered as to one defendant without discharging the
other.
Qu. Whether a plea which sets up new matter and concludes "to the country"
is good.
A plea alleging merely that seals were affixed to a bond without the consent of
the defendant, without also alleging that it was done with the knowledge, or
by the authority or direction of the plaintiffs, is not sufficient.
A plea, which has on the face of it two intendments, ought to be construed most
strongly against the party who pleads it.
A party who claims under an instrument which appears on its face to have
been altered, is bound to explain the alteration; but not so, when the alteration is averred by the opposfie party, and it does not appear upon the face of
the instrument.
Where the plea is bad and the demurrer it to the plea, the court, having the
whole record before them, will go back to the first error.
Where the date of a surety bond is subsequent to the appointment of the principal to office, the declaration should allege that .the money collected by thc
principal remained in his hands at the time when the surety bond was executed.

THIs case came up by writ of erroi from the Circuit Court of
the United States for the district of Illinois, and is a sequel to the
case between the same parties reported in 15 Peters, 291, etseq.
The circumstances are sufficiently set forth in the opinion of the
court.
L,egar, the attorney-general; for the United States.
Coxe, for the defendants.

Mr. Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion of the couzt.
This case comes up on a writ of error from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the -district of Illinois. The writ or
summons issued in the cause purports to be in a plea of debt for
one hundred thousand dollars. And the dedlaration contains
three counts upon the following instrument, which upon oyer
craved by the defendants is set out upon the record.

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

106

'United States v. Linn et aL

cKnow all men by these presentd, that we,-William Linn,
David B. Waterman, Lemuel Lee; James M. Duncan, John Hall,
William Walters, Asahel Lees William L. D. Ewing, Alexminder
P. Field, and Joseph Duncan, are held and firmly bound unto
the United States of America, in the full and just sum of one
hundred thousand dollars, money of the United States, to which
payment, well and truly to .be made, we bind ourselves jointly
and severally, our'joint and several heirs, executors, and administrators, firmly by these presents, sealed with our seals, and dated
this first day of August, in the year one thousand eight hundred
and thirty-sii.." They also crave oyer of the condition of the
said supposed writing obligatory, and it is read to theAi in these
words-: "The condition of the foregoing obligation is such, that
whereas the President of the United States hath, pursuant to law,
appointed the said William Linn receiver of public moneys for
the district, of lands subject to sale at Vandalia, in the state of
Illinois, for the term of four.years, from the 12th day of January,
12th February, 1835. Now,
1835, by commission bearing
therefore, if the said William. Linn. shall faithfully execute and
discharge the duties of his office, then the above obligation to be
void and of none effect, otherwise it shall abide and remain in
full force and virtue.
Sealed and delivered in the presence of Presley G. Pollock, as
to Win. Linn, D. B. Waterman, Lemiiel Lee, J. M. Duncan, John
Hall, Win. Walters, Asahel Lee, Win. L. D. Ewing, and A. P.
Field; A. Caldwell as to Joseph Duncan.
D. B. WATERMAN, [L. S.]
WILLIAM LINN, [L. S.]
[L. s.]
J. M. DUNCAN,
[L. S.]
LEMUEL LuNE,
JOHN HALL,
A SAHEL LEE,
A. P. FIELD,

[L. s.]
[L. s.]
[L. S.]

WK. WALTERS,
[L. s.]
Wm. L. D. EWING, [L. s.]
JOSEPH DUNCANi [L. S.]

GENERAL LAND OPPICE.

Approved, August 30, 1836.

" ETHAN A. BROWN."

To the -first counti which purports to be debt on.the bond, the
,defendants plead jointly non est factum and several other pleas
•not necessary here-to be noticed.
To the second and third counts which are upon the same
instrument, not described however as a bond, but as a certain
VOL. L-14

106

SUPREME COURT.
United States v.' Iinn et, al.

-

instrument in writing. To these counts the defendant, Joseph
Duncan, put in the following plea:
,,And the said Joseph Duncan impleaded as aforesaid, by Logan
and Brown, his attorneys, comes and defends the wrong and
injury, when, &c. And as to the said second and third counts in
the said plaihtiffs' declaration contained, says that the said plaintiffs their said action on the said second and third counts ought
not to have or maintain against him, this'defendant; because, he
says, that protesting that he executedthe supposed written-instrument declared upon in the said second and third counts of the
plaintiffs' amended declardtion, he says that after he had signed
said instrumentrand delivered it to his co-defendant, Linn, to be
transmitted to the plaintiffs and after the securities to the said
written instrument had been affixed (approved) by the Hon.
Nathaniel Pope, Judge of the District Court of the United States
for the state of Illinois, it was, without the consent, direction,. or
authority of said Joseph Duncan, materially altered in this-thitt
scrawls, by way. of seals, were affixed to the signature of said
Joseph Duncan to said written instrument, and to the signatures
of the other parties to .said written in'strument, whereby; the
character and effect of. the said written instrument, declared in
the second arid third counts -aforesaid, was materially changed,
and said: instritment declared on, vitiated.
"And so said Duncan says, that, the said supposed written instrument declared on in the second and third counts of plaintiffs'
amended declaration, -is not his act and instrument,-and of this
he puts himself upon'the country."
To which plea there is interposed a special demurr.er, and the
court gave judgment for the defendant Joseph Duncan upon the
demurrer, thereby adjudging that 'he plea was sufficient in lau
to bar the plaintiffs from maintaining their action against him
And issues, being- joined upon the pleas to the first count, the
cause came on to be tried by.a jury, and under the instructions
of the court a verdict was found for -the defendants upon the
issues of fact. Exceptions were taken to the instructions of the
court to the jury. And the correctness of such instructions is
tle first question presented on this writ of error.
-Upon the trial, after reading the bond. to .the jury, the defendants called a witness, who testified in substance, that he saw the

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

107

United States v. Linn et a].

bond after it had been, signed by the obligors, in the hands of
William Linn, the obligor first named therein, after it had been
returned from the district judge with his certificate endorsed of
the sufficiency of the sureties. That the district judge, in a note
in writing, accompanying the bond, had pointed out the omission of seals to the names of the signers of the instrument; and
said Linn, saying he would obviate that difficulty, took a pen',
and in the presence of the witness, added scrawls, by way of
seals, to each name subscribed, as makers of the .instrument.
Other testimony was given, under the issues of fact, which it is
not material to notice.
Upon this evidence the court gave the following instruction to
the jury : "If they shall find from the evidence, that after the
instrument upon which the action is brought, was signed by the
defendants, it was altered by William Lian, one of the defendants, without the knowledge or assent of the other defendants,
by adding to the names of the defendants the scrawl seals which
now appear upon the face of the instrnmeit, and such defendants have not at any time sinc§ the alteration sanctioned it; the
instrument is not the deed of such defendants, and the jury will
find a verdict in their. favour." And the question is, whether
this instruction was in point of lacV correct, under the pleadings
and evidence in the cause. All the defendants unitedI in a joint
plea of non est factum, and the proof was that the scrawls were
added by Linn to his own name and to the names of the other
iefendants.. The adding the scrawl by Linn to his own name did
not vitiate the instrument as to him: he had a right to add the
seal, or at least, he can have no right t6 set up his own act in
this respect to avoid his own deed. It was therefore his deed,
and the plea, of non est factun as to him is false. And the
question is, whether it is not'false as to all who joinedhim in the
plea of non estfactum. It is laid down by Chitty in his Treatise
6n Pleading, that a plea which is bad in part is bad in oto. - If
therefore two defendants join in a plea, which is sufficient for one
but not for the other, the plea is bad as to both. For the court
cannot sever it, and say that one is guiliyj and that the other is
not, when they put themselves on the same terms. Chitty, 598.
A plaintiff may in an action in form ex delicto against several.
defendants, enter a nolle prosequi as to one of them. But in

108

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Linn et al.

actions in form ex contractu,unless the defence be merely in the
personal discharge of ene of the defendants, a nolle prosequi
cannot be entered, as to one defendant, without discharging the
other; for the cause of action is entire and indivisible. Chitty, 599.
The rule laid down by Chitty is fully sustained by the .English
and American decisions. In Smith v. Bouchin et al., 2 Strange,
993, the action was trespass and false imprisonment; plea not
guilty by all, and a justification as to eight days' imprisonment.
And the court held, thak although the officer and jailer might
have been excused, if they had pleaded, severally, but having
joined in the plea with others who could not justify, they had
forfeited their justification. In Moors v. Parker and others,
3 Massachusetts, 310, the action was trespass de bonis' asportatis against several, and all join in the plea of not guilty, and also
in a plea of justification. -The court held that the bar set up*
was no jhstification for one of the defendants, and if several
defendants join in pleading in. bar, if the plea is bad as to one
defendant it is bad as to all.
So in.the case of Schermerhorne and others v. Tripp, 2 Caifies,
108, which was in error from a Court of Common Pleas. The
action was trespass against a justice of the peace, the constable,
and the plaintiff, and all joined in a plea of not guilty. The
court said, tle constable having joined with the others in- the
plea of the general issue, they are all equally trespassers. If he
had pleaded separately, he would probably have been excused;
but he has now involved himself with others, and we cannot
separate their fates.
It is unnecessary to multiply authorities on this point, the bo6ks
are full of them, and it is a well settled' and established rule in
pleading. The reason is, because the plea, being entire, cannot
be good in part and bad in part, an entire plea not being divisibl9, and consequently, if the matter jointly pleaded be insufficient
as to one of the parties, it is so in toto. 1 Saunders, 28, n. Z, and
cases there cited.
It has beon suggested that this'objection is waived by the-following entry in the bill of exceptions: "A judgment having been,
Ataned against Linn for the full amount of his defalcation, a
judgment op this bond"was not asked 'against him or any of the
defendants. unless-the jury shall find against all ihe defendants."

JANUARY TERM. 1843.

109

United States'v. Linn et al.

'It is not perceived how this can be considered a waiver of any
errof No judgment could have been given against Linn separately,. the plea of .-non est factum being joint. But the plaintiffs, according to the express terms of this memorandtim, did ask
a verdict and judgment against all the defendants; and if from
"the pleadings and evidence they were entitled to judgment
against all, as we think they were, there was no waiver that
will justify the instructions given to the jury.
The next question arises upon the special demurrer to the plea
of Joseph Duncan tcrthe second and third counts of, the declaration. This plea sets up new matter, to avoid the instrument
upon which the action is founded, and concludes to the country.
And it may well be questioned, whether upon the best and
soundest rules of pleading it ought not to have concluded with a
verification. Chitty, in his Treatise on Pleading, (1 Chitty, 590,
says it is an established rule in pleading, that whenever new
matter is intrdduced on either side, the pleading must conclude
with a verification, in order that the other party may have an opportunity of answeribg it. And this rule has thd sanction of many
adjudged cases. Iathe case of Service v. Heermance, 1 Johns. 92,
the court say th'ere is no rule in pleading, better or more universally established, than, that whenever new matter is introduced
the pleading must conclude with an averment. And the reason,
say the court; is obvious, because the plaintiff might otherwise
be precluded from setting forth matter which would maintain his
action, although the matter pleaded by the defendant might be
true.- And in Hlendersonl v. Whitby-and others, 2 Durn. and East,
576, Buller, Justice, in giving the judgment of the court, said: By
the rules of pleading, whenever new matter is introduced, the
other party must have an opportunity of answering it. So that
the replication setting up new matter concluded properly with an
averment. Numerous authorities, both in England and in the
UnitedT States, might be cited in support of this rule. -But
there is certainly no little confusion and diversity of opinion appearing in the books with respect to the question, when the pleadings ought to conclude to the country, and when with a. verification. Many of these discrepancies may grow out- of rules) said,
by Mr. Chitty, to have been recently estAblished'in the English
courts refating to pleadings, which have not fallen under our
.K

110

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Linn et al.

notice. We will, however, pass by the demurrer for that cause in
the present case, ana proceed to an examination of the special
matter set up in the plea in bar of the action. If this mode of
pleading be adopted, the special matter set up must, as in a special plea, be such, that if true in point of fact, it will bar the
action and defeat the plaintiff's right to recover. The matter set
up in this plea, when stripped of some circumlocution, is, that
after he, Joseph Duncan, and the other parties to the instruments,
had signed the same, it was,. without his consent, direction, or
authority, altered by affixing seals to their signatures. The plea
does not indicate in any manner by whom the alteration was
made. • It does not allege that it was done with the knowledge
or by the authority or direction of the plaintiffs; nor does it even
deny that it was done with the knowledge of the defendant, Joseph Duncan. The plea does not contain any allegation inconsistent with the conclusion, that it was altered by a strangef,
without the knowledge or consent of the plaintiffs, and if so, it
would not have Affected the validity of the instrument. It is
said jhat the demurrer admits the truth of the matter set up in
the plea. The demurrer admits whatever is well pleaded. But
it does not admit any more, and certainly does not admit what is
not pleaded at all. The demurrer then admits nothing more
than that the seals were affixed after the instrument had been
signed by the. parties and delivered to Linn to be transmitted to
the plaintiffs, and that this was done, without the consent, direction, or authority of him, the said Joseph Duncan. Is this
enough tq .avoid the instrument and bar the recovery ? It certainly is not; for the seals might have been affixed by a.stranger
without the knowledge or authority of the plaintiffs, and would
not have affected the validity of the instrument. The plea not
jalleging by whom the seals -were affixed, it is open to two intendmcits.- Either that this was made by the plaintiffs, which would
make- the instrument void, or that it was done by a stranger,
which would not itivalidate it. Apd what is the' rule of construction of such a plea? Itis, that it is to be construed most
strongly against the defenddnt. This is the rule laid down by
Chitty,.1 Chitty, 578, and in which he'is supported by numerous
authorities. And-the reason assigned for this rule of construction,
is, that it is a natural presumption, that the party pleading will

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

111

United States' v. Linn et a].

state his case as favourably as he can for himself. And if'he do
not state it with all its legal circumstances, the case is not in fact
favourable to him; and the rule of construction in such case is,
that if a plea has on the face of it two intendments, it shall be
taken most strongly against the defendant; that is, says he, the
most unfavourable meaning shall be put upon the plea; a rule
which obtains also in other pleadings; and a number of cases
are put, illustrating this rule. The present plea-falls directly within
it. The plea not alleging.by whom the seals were affixed, it is
left open to intendment, that it was done either by the plaintiffs or by a stranger. In the first ease, it would make the deed
void; in the last, it would not vitiate it.And under the' rule that
has been stated, the most unfavourable-'meaning must be put
upon the plea; that is, that which will operate most against the
party pleadingit. And the alteration must be presumed to have
been made so as not to'vitiate the instrument, if the plea will
admit of such construction. Suppose the plea had concluded
with a verification,, and the plaintiffs had replied that the affixing
the seal was done without their knowledge, consent, or authority, and this state of .the case had been sustained by th3 proof,
it would not have avoided the instrument.
But, it is said, the law imposes upon the party who claims
under the instrument. the burden of explaining the alteralion.
This is the rula ifidoubtedly, where the alteration appears on the
*face of the instrument, as an erasure, interlineation, and the like.
It-such case, thb party having the possession of the instrument
and claiming under it, ought to be called upon to explain it. It
isi presumed to have been done while in his possession. But,
where no such pritnafaie evidence exists,there can be no good
reason why this should devolve upon a party, simply bectuse he
claims under the instrument. The plea avers the alteration,.and
the defendant; therefore, holds the affirmative; and the general.
rule is, that he who holds the affirmative ifiust prove it.- Andthis, under the present plea, can impose no hardship on the defendant, for his affirming the fact of alteration affords a reasonable
presumption that he knew by whom the alteration was made.
And, in addition to this, it is a circumstance deserving considerable weight, that the .defendant in is plea does not deny his haV-'
ing such knowledge. He avers that the seal was affixed without

112

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Linn et al.

his consent, direction, or authority; but he does not say it was
done without his knowledge. And it is not an unreasonable inference that ff he had, in his plea, disclosed by whom it was done,
it would, appear to have been done in a way that did not affect
the validity of the instrument. There is not upon the face of this
instrument any thing indicating an alteration, or casting a suspiciotf upon its validity, that should put the-plaintiffs upon inquiry.
The instrument upon its face admits it was sealed with the. seals
of the defendants, and purports to have been sealed and delivered,
in the common conclusion of a sealed bond. So that, when the
instrument came into the possession of the plaintiffs, there was
nothing on the face of it to raise a suspicion against its validity.
The case -of Henman v. Dickinson, 5 Binghar, 183, has been
relied upon to show that the onus of accounting for the alteration
is thrown upon the plaintiffs. All that this case decides is, that the
party who sues on an instrument which on the face of it ap.
pears to have bebn altered, it is for him to show that the alteration •has not been improperly made. The circumstance of the
alteration appearing on the face of the instrument is emphatically
relied upon by-the court to show that the party claiming under
the instrument must account for the alteration.
This was a
question of evidence upon the trial, and did not arise upon the
pleadings, and the report of the case does not furnish us with the
pleadings. Many other cases might be cited to the same effect.
In the case of Taylor v. Mosely, 6 Car.and Payne, 273, the
bill upon which the suit was brought appeared on its face to
have been altered, and there was no evidence on either side when
or by whom the alteration was made; and the question was submitted to the jury. by Lord Lyndhurst, with the ren'ark, that it lay
on the plaintiff to accounit for the suspicious form and obvious
alteration of the note, and they must judge from the inspection
of the instrument, and if they thought the alteration was made
after the completion of the bill, the verdict .must be for the defendant. In the case now before the court, the inspection'of the
instrument fprnishes no ground of suspicion, and from the facts
stated in the plea, there must have been a considerable distance
of time after the instrument was signed by Duncan before it came
into the possession of the plaintiffs. The plea alleges that it was
delivered to-Linn, one of the defendants, to be transmitted to the

JANUARY TERM, 1843.
United States v. Linn et al.

plaintiffs. But the plea does not allege that the alteration was
made after the instrument came into the possession of the plaintiffs; and .under this state of facts alleged.in the-plea, the onus of
proving when and by whom altered, is more properly cast upon
the defendant. We are accordingly of opinion that the plea is,
bad. But it is a settled rule that, when the demurrer is to the
plea, the court having the whole record before them will go back
to the first error: and when the demurrer is by the pAlintiff, his
own pleadings must be scrutinized, and 'the court willtnotice all
exceptions to the declaration that might have been taken on general demurrer. - We are accordingly thrown back on the record to
examine the sufficiency of the declaration in the second and third
counts.
The second count sets out the instrument as of the date of the
1st of April, 1836. That Linn's commission bears date the 12th
of February, 1835, and ihat he was appointed r~ceiver for four
years from the 12th of January, 1835. And the count then
alleges that after the making and delivering the said instrument
in writing, and after the appointment of the said Linn, he entered
upon.the duties of his office; aip that within four years from the
said 12th day of January, and while he was receiver of public
moneys, there came into his hands, as receiver, the sum of four
millions of dollars, which'it was his duty to pay over to the plaintiffs when requested, yet the said William Linn hath not, nor
would he, although often requested so to do, to wit oil the 2d
day of April, in the year 1838, account for and pay over to the
said plaintiffs .the said sums of money or any part thereof, but
hath wholly neglected and refused so to do. It is said this count
is bad, because from the time stated in the count he might
have received the money after the 12th day of January, 1835, the
commencement of his office, and before the 1st day of April,
1836, when the instrirnent signed by the.sureties bears date, and
that the sureties cannot be responsible for any moneys received
.before they became sureties. The count alleges a demand of the
money and a refusal to pay'it on the 2d day of April in the year
1838, long after the defendant- became surety. In the case of
Farrar and Brown v. The United States, 5 Peters, 373, (which
was an action upon a bond jiven for the faithful discharge of the
duties of a survey6r of the public lands,) the breach assigned was,
VoL. I.-15
x2

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Linn et al.

that at the time of the execution of the bond, "there were in the
hands of the surveyor large sums of money to be disbursed for the
use of the United States, which he had neglected to do." And
one of the questions which arose was, whether the 'sureties
could be made liabld for any moneys paid to the surveyor prior
to the execution of the bond; and the court said there is but one
ground on which the sureties can be made answerable, and that
was on the assumption that the money was still remaining in his
hands when thb bond was given. And in the case of The United
States v. Boyd, 15 Peters, 208, the court said it matters not at
what time the moneys had been received, if after the appointment of the officer they were held by him in trust for the United'
States, and so continued to be held at and after the date of the
bond.
In ihese cases there was a direct allegation that the
-money was in the hands of the officer at the date of the bond.
In the case nov.- before the court, there is no such direct allegation, and this count is therefore bad on this ground. The third
count is also bad for the same reason.
The judgment of the Circuit Court musfaccordingly be reversed,
and the cause sent back f6r further proceedings.
Mr. Justice McLEAN dissented.
The joint plea of non est factum to the first count in the declaration being bad against Linn, is undoubtedly bad against the
other defendants. But this point was not raised in the Circuit
Court. It was not intended to be raised:. On tie cohtrary, the
counsel agreed to submit the question under the plea, whether the
annexation of the seals by Linn vitiated the bond as against the
sureties. And the reason. for this was stated in the following
entry on the record: "A judgment having been obtained against
Linn for the full amount of his defalcation, a judgment on this
bond was not asked against him or any of the defendants, unless
the jury shall find against all the defendants."
This'agreement was treated by the counsel on both sides, in
the Circuit Court, as waiving any technical question arising on
the pleading. No one could doubt that the bond was good
against Linn. And it is equally clear that, technically, the plea
was bad for the other defendants, it being bad as to Linn. And
it w*as to avoid any technicality of this kind ihat the agreement

JANUARY TERM, 1843.

115

United States v. Linn-etal.
was entered into. It is less definite than it should have been,
but still its object seems to be manifest. That a construction
here would be given to the agreement different from that which
was given to it by the United States attorney in the Circuit
Court, was not expected. His construction is shown from the
fact of his not having suggested any objection to the court below
arising on t*he joint plea.
The plea of Joseph Duncan as to the alteration of the bond is
held to be bad, because it is not averred that it was altered by
the plaintiffs or by their authority. At the same time it is admitted that, on the general issue, the person claiming under the deed
must explain any interlineation or alteration upon its face, so as
to show the bond is not vitiated. The'reason of this is clear..
The party having possession of the bond is presumed to have a
knowledge of any alteration of it, and is therefore required to
explain it. -Primafadcie, any material alteration vitiates the

bond.
Now the special plea in this case states a material alteration, by
affixing the seals, after the instrument had been approved of by
the district judge. The demurrer admits the facts stated in -the
plea. Does it not follow, then, that the plea is good, if the alteration alleged in it be a material one; such an one as vitiates the

instrument unless explained?

No rule in pleading is better set-

tled than that a fact which is presumed to be known to the plaintiff, and is not presumed to be within the knowledge of the defendant, the defendant need not aver it in his plea, if he can

without the averment set up a primafacie defence. Mvlr. Chitty
says, 1 vol. of Plead. 255, "It is also a generalrule, that matter
which should come more properly from the other side need not

be stated.

In other words, it is enough for each party to make

out his own case or defence.

He sufficiently substahitiates the

charge or answer for the purposes of pleading, if his pleading
establish a prima faeie charge or answer.

He is not bound to

anticipate, and therefore is not compelled to notice and remove in
his declaration or plea every possible exception, answer, or ob-

jection which may exist, and with which the adversary may intend
to oppose him."
Com. Dig. Pleader, c. 81; Plowd. 376;.
2 Saund. 62 a, .n. 4; 1 Term Rep. "638; 8 Term Rep. 167; Stephen's Pl. 1st ed. 354;

116

SUPREME COURT.
United 'States v. Linn et al.

No one can doubt that the alteration averred in the above plea,
appearing on the face of the instrument, would vitiate it, unless
explained by the holder. And it follows then that the plea
stating the fact, which the demurrer admits, must be answered
and explained.
The defendant must know whether an instrument which he
has executed has been altered in a material part. But he is not
presumed to'know by whom it has been altered, while it is in the
possession of the party who claims under it. If the defendant
must aver this, he must prove it; and this would be impossible.
But, on the other hand, the pers6n claiming under the instrument,
and who has always been in possession of it, may welt be presumed to know by -vhom it has been altered, and, therefore, he,
and he only, can explain it. Any other rule would be most unreasonable and contraiy to any proper system of pleading.
The rules lately adopted by the courts of England in regard to
pleading seem "not to have fallen under the notice of this
court." This is to be regretted, as those rules have been published 'in the late editions of Mr. Chitty on Pleading, and are
known to the profession throughout the cmntry.
It is true, as the court say, that intendments are.taken against
the plea; but intendments must not only be practicable, but reasonable. If a fact in the plea be omitted-, which the defendant
cannot be presumed to know, and which must be known to the
plainfiff, no intendment against the plea can be drawn.
Mr. Stephens, in his Treatise on Pleading, 350, under the head
that, "it is not necessary to state matter whi6h would come more
properly from the other side," says, "this, which is the ordinary
form of the -rule, does not fully express its meaning. The meafting is,that it is not necessary to anticipate the answer of the
adversary; which, according to Hale, C. J., 'is like leaping before
one comes to the stile.' It is sufficient that each pleading should
in itself contain a good prima facie case, without reference to
possible 'objections not yet urged." "Thus in pleading a devise
of land by force of the statute of wills, 32 Hen. 8, c. 1 it is Sufficient to allege that such an one was seised of the land in fee, and
devised it by his last will, in writing, without alleging that such
devisor was of full age. For though the statute provides that
wills made by femes covert, or persons within age, &c., shall not

J.ANUARY TERM, 1843.

117

United States v. Linn et al.

be taken to be effectual; yet if the devisor were within age, it is
for the other party to show this ii hip answer, and it need not
be denied by anticipation."
cSo .where an action of debt was brought upon the statute
21 .Hen. 6, against the bailiff of a town for not returning a burgess of that town for the last Parliament, (the words of the statute being that the sheriff shall send his precept to the mayor, and
if there be no mayor, then- to the bailiff,) the plaintiff declared
that the sheriff had made his precept unto the bailiff, without
averring that there was no mayor. And after verdict for the
plaintiff, this was moved jn arrest of judgment. But the caurt
was of opinion clearly, that the .deqlaration was good; for we
shall not intend that- there was a mayor, except it be showed; if
there were one, it should come more properly on the other side."
"Where the matter is such that its affirmation or denial is
essential to the appareni or primafacie right of the party pleading, there it ought to be affirmed or denied." Now the alteration of the instrument in a material part, after Duncan the
defendant had signed it, withotit his consent or knowledge, did
make a prima facie case. It made such a case, as, upon the
general issue, would have required the plaintiffs to show by
whom it was altered. And this shoivs that the plea is good. It
is the same principle whether it arise on the general issue or by
special plea. The same order of proof is required. The plaintiffs, therefore, instead of demurring, should have pleaded over,
and alleged that the alteration was made by a stranger, and,
consequently, that it did not vitiate the instrument.
The plea should have concluded with a verification, and not to
the country.. But this could only be taken advantage -of by
special demurrer. This defect is not one of the causes assigned
in the demurrer, ana, therefore, cannot be objected to.
The second and third counts of the declaration being bad, as
ruled by the Court, the judgment of the Circuit Court should, on
those counts, have been affirmed, and not reversed. Mr. Stephens,
in his Pleading, 144, says again, "It is a rule, that on demurrer
the c'nurt will consider the whole record, and give judgment for
the party who, on the whole, appears to be entitled to it."
" Thus on demurrer to the replication, if the court think the
replication bad, but perceive a substantial fault in the plea, they

118

SUPREME COURT.,
Morris v. Exec. of Nixon et al.

will give judgment, not for the defendant, but for the plaintiff,
provided the declaration be good; but if the declaration also be
bad in substance, then, upon the same principle, judgment would
be given for the defendant." Piggot's case, 5 Rep. 29 a; Bates
v. Cost, 2 Barn. & Cres. 474.
I believe this case' is the first exception to the above rule.
Notwithstanding the above defective counts, judgment is given
generally against the defendant. It is hoped that this ruling will
not establish a precedent in other cases.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
Illinois, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said- Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is
hereby reversed, and that this cause be and the same is hereby
remanded to the said Circuit Court, with- directions to proceed
therein conformably to to the opinion of this court.

THOIAS MORRIs, COMPLAINANT AND -APPmLLANT, V. MARIA NIXON,
HENRY J. WILLIAMS AND THOMAS BIDDLE, HENRY
AND

MARIA NIXON,

MENT OF HENRY

EXECUTORS OF THE

NIXON,

J.

WILLIAMS

LAST WILL AND TESTA-

DECEASED, kND MARIA NIXON, SOLE DE-

VISEE OF THE SAID LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT OF HENRY NIXON,
AND MARY HUSBAND, AMELIA

M.

MORRIS, ROBERT MORRIS,

LIAM P. MORRIS, CHARLOTTE E. MORRIS,
MORRIS,

CHILDREN AND

CEASED,

AND CORNELIUS STEVENSON

HEIRS -AT LAW OF HENRY
AND

WIL-

HENRY MORRIS, SARAH
SAMUEL

MORRIS, DE-

C.

CLEMENTS,

ADMINISTRATORS OF SAID HENRY MORRIS, DECEASED.

A deed, absolute on the face of it, declared to be a security for money loaned.
Where a bill substantially charges that there is a fraudulent attempt to hold
property under a deed, absolute on the face of it, but intended as a security
for money loaned, evidence will be admitted to ascerfaiu the truth of the
transaction.
Where there is proof of parties meeting upon the footing of borrowing and

