SUPREME COURT.

Tiim

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V.

DoDnNG~o

ACOSTA, APPELLEE.

The certificate of the secretary of the Spanish goveriior of Florida is prima
fade evidence of the existence of a grant of land.
The Spanish governor had authority to issue such a grant.
In the case of a grant made before the 24th of January, 1818, it is valid,
although the.survey was not zpade until after that day, provided ihe'survey
was made before the exchange of flags.
It is not a good objection to such agrant that the mdtes and bounds were not
set forth.

THE facts in' this case are fully set' frth in the opinion of the
court.
It was submitted by Mr. Legar6, the attorney-general, without
argument, on the usual obiections assigned, pro firna,for error.

Mr. Justice CATRoN delivered the opini6n of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Superior Court of
East Florida, confirming eight thousand acres of land to Domingo
Acosta, under the acts of Congress for the adjustment of landclaims in Florida.
The claim is founded on an alleged petition of Acosta, dated
May 2, 1816, and a decree of Governor Coppinger thereon, dated
the 20th day of the same month and year. The petition (record
8) sets forth: That by the certificates which he presented, signed
by the commandants of Fernandina, who had governed it successively since 1808, his excellency would be informed that he
had been a permanent resident of the said town, engaged all the
while in commerce, and had served (in all that had offerel itself)
the wishes of the"government for the good of the province; and
that he had been particularly prompt with his per~oi, his funds,
and hi itflietice, for the defence, the .upport, and the advancement oie te town; and that he hhd at no, time had any stipend,
recompense, or remuneration, of his experises, supplies, and
losses, and,*had refrained from importuning the government with.
solicitations, He therefore prayed for a grant in property, of
eight thousand acres; but as he was ignorant of the lands that
were vacant, and desirous to avoid interference and dissensions
with any person, he further prayed his excellency would be

3ANUARY TERM, 1843.

25

Trhe United States v. Acosta.

pleased to grant them at the places where the surveyor-general
might survey them as vacant lands!
The decree (record 8) states, that "in virtue of the certificates
which this party presents, and it being the will of the sovereign
that the merits of his subjects should be rewarded, the lands solicited in this instance are granted, with special charge to the Surveyor-general to survey them to him without injury to third
persons."
The originals of the petition and decree were not produced in
•e;idence, neither are they to be found in the archives at St. Augustine. A certified copy, dated 24th June, 1816, under the
hand of Thomas de Aguilar, secretary of the government, .tated
to be faithfully drawn from the original in his office, was alone
offered, and was objected to on the part of th6 appellants.
The appellee also offered the following plats and certificates of
survey, purporting to be made,by George J. F.Clarke, surveyorgeneral of the province:
No. 1. Dated 12th January, 1818, for one thousand acres of
land, on Bowlegs' old plantation, and situated northwardly and
contiguous to the same Bowlegs' prairie, westward of Payneston.
No. 2. Dated 15th January, 1818, for one thousand five hundred acres of land, in the hammock called Jobbin's hammock,
southwestwardly of the road called Ray's trail, leading from the
natural bridge of-the Santa. Fe, to the point of Alachua called
Hogtown.
No. 3..Dated 14th February, 1818, for one thousand five hundred acres of land, northward of Dunin's creek, running from
Dunn's lakeo to the river St. John.
No. 4. Dated 20th January; 1820, for four thousand acres of
land, on .the west side of Indian river, and at a place called.
Flounder creek.
After hearing testimony as to the manner in which muniments
of title were kept in the archives at St. Augustine, the court made
a decree confirming bthfour several tracts of land to the claimant,
from which decree the present appeal is taken.
On the part of the United States, it was contended that the
said decree ought to be reversed, on the following grounds:
1. That there is not sufficient evidence to show that Governor
Coppinger ever made the alleged concession or grant.
VOL. I.-4
C

26

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v Acosta.

2. That if Governor Coppinger made such a grant, it was
made without authority.
3. That there is no description whatever in the said pretended
grant, of the lands alleged to be granted, and no valid survey
could be made so as to sever any lands from the 'public domain.
4. That there is no evidence of the surveys.
The foregoing statement,'offered on part of the United States,
-presents the facts of -the case; and the objections to the decree
below.
In answer to the first, that there is not sufficient evidence the
grant was made, we refer to the .case of Wiggins, (14 Peters,)
which determines that the official certificates of the secretary
Aguilar was primafacie proof of the existence of the original
grant at the date when the copy was made; and of its contents.
• In this case, Alveraz proves the certificate of the secretary
genuine, hnd that he was in office at the date of the certificate.
It was' in proof that no, original could be found in the proper
office where it should be on file. This was sufficient to let in 'a
-copy; and there being no proof to contradict, or impair the force
of Aguilar's certificate, the court below properly held, that the
grant had been made by Governor Coppinger.
To the second objection, it is sufficient to say-that the governor, as.the king's deputy, was the sole judge of the merits on
which the claim is founded, and had undoubted power to reward
the merits of the grantee'; so this court has- held in many cases.
3. Although there is no description of any place -where the
land granted shall be located, in the governor's, decree; still it
was binding so far as it went.
The surveyor-general was'
ordered to survey the lands solicited, on places' vacant, and without injury to third persons.. The act' of this-subordinate officer
came in.aid of the decree; he had the authority conferred to
sever the land granted from the public domain: had he done so
before the 24th of January, 1818, then there could be no doubt
the.grantee took title to the .particular lands; because, up to this
date, all grants made by the King of Spain, in whatever form,
are recogunised as valid by thd arti,,le of the treaty. The difficulty in this case is, that two of the surveys were made after the
24th of January, 1.818: and, did the -grant take effect from the
date of the surveys, then, by the stipulations of the 8th article,

JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

27

The United States v. Acosta.
it wo ild.be void. This.question was first presented in Sibbald's
case, 10 Peters, 321. It was thought by this court, that the'Sth
article of the treaty operated on grants 'Made by the governor
after the 24th of January, 1818, but not on'the subordinate acts
of the surveyor in giving effect to the grant; and that..surveys
could be madeat. anyjtime before the change of flags between
this.government and "thatof Spain. Still, fiad that officer failed to
make the surveys, the grant would not be binding on this govern,ment. We followed the case of Sibbalh in that of Clarke v. Atkinson, at the last term, 16 Peters, 2-31. This construction was
given to the 8th article of the treaty, in a spirit of liberality to this
description of claimants, who.'could not be held justly responsible
for the delays of the surveyor-general; and because the incipient
claim, by the governor's decree, was not cut off by the treaty.
The surveyor-general having executed the governor's decree, we
are of opinion -that the surveys made after the 4th of January,
1818, as well as those made before that date, are valid. That
there are several surveys is no objection to their validity; the
decree in this case obviously so.contemplated.
4. It is objected, that no sufficient evidence is.furnished by the
record that the surveys were made. The cause wds first submitted to the court below, in 1834; then the two surveys last made
were objected to and admitted by the court. The judge continued the cause on his own motion for further: proofs, and it
stood over on continuances until 1840, when the four surveys
were, read without objection. We think the proofs authorized
the decree, and order that it be affirmed.
ORDERn.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from.the Superior Court for the District of East Florida, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered, adjudged, and decreed, byhis court, that the decree (f
the said Superior Court in- this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, in all respects.

