JANUARY TERM, 1843.

ANDREW DUNCAN,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.

IsAAc DARST, HENRY

DARST, AND JACOB DARST,' DEFENDANTS.

A person in custody under.a capias ad satisfaciendum issued under the authority
df the Circuit Court of the United States, cannot legally be discharged from
imprisonment by a state officer, acting under a state insolvent law.

THis case came up by writ of error from the GirCuit Court of
the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
The facts in'the case were not disputed, and were as follow:
Isaac Darst; Henry Darst,'arnd Jacob Darst, citizens of the 6tate
of Ohio, recovered a judgment -in the Circuit Court of Pennsyl-

vania, against one.Jacob Roth, who was arrested on a capiasad
8atisfaciendum, and handed over for 'safe-keeping to -Andrew
Duncan, sheriff of the county of York; This was on the 6th of
Dee ember, 1832. On the next day, Roth applied to George Barnitz, an associate judge of the Court of Common Pleas for the
county of York, for -the benefit of an act of the legislature of
Pennsylvania, passed on the 28th of March, 1820, entitled, "A
supplement to the act entitled A supplement to the abt entitled
An act for the relief of insolvent debtors, passed the twenty-ninth
of January, one thousand eight hundred and twenty."
The first section of the act referred to is as follows:
"That if any debtor shall hereafter be arrested or held in execution, on-a bail pie.ce, in a 'civil suit, and who shall have resided
six months in this commonwealth previously thereto,. he may
apply, when arrested on execution, io the president or-any associate judge of the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which
he is so arrested, or when held on a bail piece, may apply to the
president or-associate judge of the said court, in the county in
which the suit was -instituted, and -give bond to 'the plaintiff or
plaintiffs, at whose suit he is so arrested and held, with such security as shall be required and approved of by the said judge:
the condition of which bond shall be, that the said debtor shall
be and appeair at the next Court of Common Pleas for said
county, and there take the benefit of the insolvent laws of this
commonwealth, and to- surrender himself to the jail-of the said
county, if he fail to comply with all things required by law. to
2C

SUPREME COURT.
•Duncan v. Darst et al.

entitle him to be- discharged, and generally-to abide all orders of
the said court: whereupon the said judge. shall give an order to
the sheriff, constable, or other person, having such debtor in custody, to forthwith discharge him upon his paying the jail fees, if.
any be due."
It was admitted that this act was in force on the 7th of December, 1832, and for a long time afterwards; that Roth had
resided in the commonwealth of Pennsylvania for six months
previously to hisapplication, and that he complied, in all respects,
with the, provisions of the above -section. The judge gave an
order to the sheriff having Roth in custody, to forthwith discharge.
him upon his paying the jail fees, arid he was thereupon discharged.
Darst brought an action against Duncan for an escape, who
pleaded specially the above matters .n his defence. The plaintiff demurred to the plea, and the demurrer was sustained in the
Circuit Court; and, upon thd validity of this deimurrer, the case
was brought up to this court.
The statute of Pennsylvania, above recited, required the party
-who desired to be discharged from imprisonment, to give bond
that he would, appear at the next Court of Common Pleas, and
there take the benefitof the insolvent laws of the commonwealth.
Upon a reference to the acts then existing, it will be found that
the privileges-conferred upon the debtor and the duties required
of him, by the insolvent laws, are the following: He was to be
declared free from imprisonment, not only upon that suit, but
from subsequent arrests, on .his giving a warrant to appear in
cburt; and although the property which he might subsequently
acquire was subject to execution, yet the court was at liberty to
exempt it, provided two-thirds of his creditors assented. The
duties required of the' debtor were, that he should hand, in a
list of his property, crEditors,. debts, and 16ses; that he should
not be guilty of collusion or false, swearing; that he shoild not
conceal or convey away his property,'under penalty of imprisonment; and that he should be liable to punishment at hard
labour, if found to be a fraudulent debtor. The property of and
debts due to the debtor were vested in trustees, who were to -con.vert them into cash and divide it among the'creditors; the stirplus, if any, belonging to the debtor.

JANUARY TERM, 184 .

303

Duncan v. Darst et al.

This is the process through which it was necessary to pass, according to the bond of any one who might be discharged from
imprisonment, as Roth was.
Read, for the plaintiff in error.
Penrose,for defendant.
Read, for plaintiff, took the following positions:
1. The third section of the processact of the 19th May, 1828,
expressly adppted the act of Assembly of Pennsylvania of the
28th March, 1820, and particularly-the first section thereof, -as a
part of the proceedings on writs of execution, issued out of the
courts of the United States, sitting within the state of Pennsylvania, and the discharge therefore of the said Jacob Roth, in pursuance thereof, was a lawful one, and obligatory both upon the
said sheriff of York and the plaintiff in the execution.
2. That the said defendant, a state officer, in thus obeying the
legal order of a state judge under a state law, adopted by the
express words of an act of Congress, was not guilty of an escape.
3. That under the circumstances appearing on the record, no
action of debt-for an escape would lie against-the plaintiff in error.
To sustain these p6sitions, he referred to Wayman v.. Southard,
10 Wheat. I; United States Bank v. Halstead, 10 Wheat. 51
Beers v. Haughton, 9 Peters, 329 ; Ross v. Duval, 13 Peters, 45;
Amis v. Smith, 16 Peters, 30s; Bronson v. Kinzie, decided at the
present term. In 9 Peters, 362, all the laws regulating state officers were adopted, and the reason is found in 12 Wheat. 285.
In 1789, the United States applied to the states for the use of
their jails, 1 Story, 70, 207; and Pennsylvania complied. 2 Smith's
Laws of Pa. 513. (Mr. Read referred to and commented upon
the several acts of Congress respecting writs and processes, and
traced the history of laws relaxing imprisonment for debt.)
Penrose, for defendants, entered into a-critical examination of
the powers of the federal government and states, and contended,
that whether the act of Congress of 1828 adopted state insolvent
laws or not, it did not intend that they should be dnforced by
itate officers, to the exclusion of the jurisdiction of the United
States courts.' He then reviewed the cases cited on the other side,
and maintained that they did not authorize the positions assumed.

SUPREME COURT.
Duncan v. Darst et al.

Read, in reply:
The argument made on the other side takes the same ground
as The dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Thompson, in the ca.e
of Ogden v. Saunders. But the court did not so think. In 1819,
Pennsylvania passed a law exempting females from imprisonment for debt, which was not enacted by Congress until 1838.
In the mean time; they would have been subject to this process
from the federal court, if the argument on the other side be correct- In 1828, it was declared that the United States courts
should have the same rules as state cburts. Suppose a-man imprisoned under process from both courts; could he come out,
under the insolvent'law, from one and not the other? If so,
how have they both the same rules?
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the cpurt.
It appears from the record that in 1824 Darst and others recovered, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern
district of Pennsylvania, a judgment against Jacob Roth, for the
sum of $5465.
In November, 1832, a capiasad satisfaciendumwas sued out
against him, returnable to the April term, 1833, of the court. On
the 6th of December, 1832, the marshal arrested Roth, and delivered him to Duncan, the sheriff and jailer of York county, for
safe-keeping in the jail of that county, until discharged by due
course of law. On the 7th of December, Duncan discharged
him from austody, and the present suit was brought for an
escape.
He pleaded in justification, that Roth applied to G. B., an associate judge of the Court of Common Pleas of York county,
gave bond and security to appear at the next Court of Common
Pleas, then and there to take the benefit of the insolvent laws of
Pennsylvania; and to surrender himself to the jail- of the county,
if he failed to comply with all things required by law, to entitle
him to be discharged, &c. To this plea there was a demurrer,
and judgment for the plaintiffs.
To the regularity of the writ of capias ad satisfaciendumnrto
its execution on the body of Roth;, or to is delivery to Duncan
as the proper jailer to receive him, there is no objection made:
the case turns exclusively on -the question, whether by giving

JANUARY TtRM, 1843.

305

Duncan v. Darst et al.

bond and security to appear in the insolvent court, the sheriff
was authorized to release Roth from imprisonment.
It is admitted that had Roth been arrested by a sheriff on a ca.
sa., issued from a state court of Pennsylvania, a discharge would
have been proper'on his giving the bond: and it is contended the
same consequence followed in this case, because the acts of' Congress had adopted the modes of proceeding on final process, governing the state courts and officers.
This brings up the question, to what extent Congress had
adopted the various causes of discharge, (in 1832,) provided by
the state laws, for the releasie of debtors, imprisoned *byvirtue
of writs of ca. sa. issued by courts, of the United States: beyond the state laws adopted, it is settled the' federal courts are
not bound to conform to state regulations. What state laws
apply, and regulate the modes of proceeding in the courts of the
United States, depends on a proper understanding of the acts of
Congress, on the subject.
The first in order, is that of 1789, c. 21, s. 2; which declares,
the forms of writs and executions, and the modes of process in
suits at common law, shall be the same in each state respectively
as are now used, or allowed in the Supreme Courts of the same.
This act was temporary, but is referred to, and in part sanctioned, by that of 1792, c. 36, s. 2. This declares: That the forms
and modes of proceeding, in suits at common law, shall be the
same as are now used in the courts of the United States respectively, in pursuance of the a6t of 1789, c. 21.
By the first section of the act of 1828, c. 68, the then processes
and modes of proceeding of the highest state court of original
jurisdiction, are pr6scribed as applicable to the courts of the United
States in the states respectively that came into the Union,after 1789.
But the third section applies to the old and new states equally,
except Louisiana; and declares:--" That writs of execution, and
other final process; issued on judgments and decrees, and the pro.ceedings thereupon, shall be the same in eacl state, respectively,
as are now used in the courts of such state." Giving the courts
power to alter final process by rufles so far only, as to conform id
any state law subsequently passed, on the subject. "No rules
have been adopted in Pennsylvania, and the acts of Congress referred to therefore govern this case.
VOL. L-s9
2 C2

306

SUPREME COURT.
Duncan v. Darst et al.

The terms, "modes of process," in the act of 1789 ; and, S4proceediugs upon executions, and other final process," in the act of
1S2S, have the same meaning, and include all the regulatioiisand
steps incident to that process, from its commencement to its termination as prescribed by the state laws; so far as they can be
made to apply to the federal courts: as this court held in Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 27,28, and also, in Beers v. Houghton, 9 Peters; United States v. Knight, 14 Peters;. Amis v.
Smith, 16 Peters, 312.
Congress however did not -intend to defeat the execution of
judgments rendered in the courts of the United State -; but meant
they should have full effectby force of the state laws adopted:
and therefore 611 state laws regulating proceedings, affecting insolvent persons; or that are addressed to state courts, or magistrates in other respects; which confer peculiar powers on such
courts and magistrates, do not. bind the federal courts, because
they have no power to execute such laws. The case of Palmer
.e. Allen, 7 Cranch, 563, is to this effect.
Palmer as deputy
maishal- arrested Allen on a capias ad -respondendumiin the
district of Connecticut, and imprisoned him. By the laws of that
state, this could not be done, without a mittimus from a magistrate.
This court held the process acts did not adopt. the law of Connecticut, which required the mittimus : !' That it was a peculiar
municipal regulation, not having any immediate relation to the
progress of the suit, and only imposing a restraint on the state
officers; but altogether. inoperative upon those of the United
States." Had it been necessary to ask the aid of the magistrate,
to execute the process; then he would have had.the discretion to
refuse, and thereby to defeat it.
As state courts, or magistrates, cannot be compelled to aid a
federal-court in the' exercise of its jurisdiction; so neither can"
they be permitted to restrain its process by injunction, or otherwise, as was held in McKim v. Voorhies, 7 Cranch. It follows,
that a state law, regulating the practice of state c6urts, and addressed to its judges and magistrates; but which can only be
executed by them, or with their aid, is a peculiar municipal regulation; not adopted by the acts of Congress, nor applicable to
the courts of the United States.
The case of Duncan must be tested by these rules. Roth ap-

JANUARY

TERM, 1843.

307

Duncan v. Darst et a].

plied to a judge of the Common Pleas, and gave a bond, to appear at that court, at its next term, and take the benefit of the
insolvent laws. On this single step being taken, the jailer discharged him. The proceeding had no reference to the process by
which Roth was .imprisoned; but to a new proceeaing, proposed
to be instituted, by which all his property should be equally distributed among all his creditors; and his person be exempted in
future from arrest for his existing debts when discharged.
As all thle creditors of Roth had the right to become 'parties to
the proceeding in the insolve.nt court, no matter where they resided, it is manifest the Circuit Court of the United States could
take no jurisdiction of the-parties, nor execute the insolvent law,
had an application been made to that court for such purpose. It
is therefore a peculiar law, as respects the court of the United
States; is strictly municipal in its character: and as it could only
be executed by the state courts, no action under it, by these
courts, could affect the process by which Roth was imprisoned.
This opinion is. in conformity to the decision of the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, in 'the case of Duncan v. Klinefetter,
5 Watts's Rep. 141. That was an action on the case, by the present plaintiff in error, Duncan, against the jailer his deputy, for dischargingRoth; whereby, Duncan alleged he had sustained damage.
It is insisted the foregoing conclusion is in conflict with the
decision of this court in the case of Beers v., Haughton, 9 Peters;
and which decision is confidently relied on as governing this case.
In that case, Beers sued Harris, in the Circuit Court of Ohio;
Haughton became bail for Harris. Judgment was recovbred in
December, 1830; a ca. sa. was run against Harris, and returned
not found.
In February, 1832, Harris took the benefit of the insolvent law
of Ohio: by this proceeding his person was exempted from arrest
in all cases, for debts previously contracted.
In December, 1832, Beers sued Haughton on the bail bond;
who pleaded and relied on the discharge of Harris.
By the laws of Ohio, the bail has the right to surrender the principal at any time before he is thus sued,and served wiih the process.
Haughton undertook that Harris should surrender his person,
if he failed to pay the debt. To, enforce this condition, the ca. sa.
issued. The bail had the right to arrest the principal, and deliver

30S

SUPREME COURT.
Duncan v. Darst et al.

him to the marshal, who could imprison the debtor as if arrested
by the ca. sa. Not being subject to imlirisonment after the discharge under the insolvent law, the maishal could not receive the
prisoner; nor could he have lawfully arrested him., It followed,
the bail was *equally inhibited; and of course discharged from
performance, by the act of the law; just as certainly as he would
have been discharged by the act of God, had Harris died, at the
time he was released.under the insolvent act. This is the doctrine settled in Beers v. Haughton.
Had Roth been discharged, in the insolvent court, by its judgment, from future imprisonment, before the ca. sa. was executed
by the marshal; then a case would have arisen, io which the principle declared in that of Beers v. 'Haughton would- apply; as the
state of Pennsylvania had the undoubted right to exempt persons
thus discharged from imprisonment for debt: so she might exempt all persons whatever. But it does not follow, that one not
excepted from the operation of the general law, who had been
properly arrested, afid imprisoned by the process of a federal
court, could be discharged by a state judge. The general rle
is,-10 Co. 76, b, same cases cited in note, 5 Watts's R. 144,--(and
nothing is better settled,) that an officer is not justified in obeying
.he order of-a judge, or court; having no jurisdiction in the matter; and this rule applies in an especial manner, as between the
state and federal courts; where it never has been supposed, that
the judges of the one, could control the process of the other. If
it was otherwise, and writs of injunction, of suyersedeas, and
orders to discharge defendants from imprisonment, could be
granted by state courts, or judges, to render ineffectual process
issued from the courts of the United States, the jurisdiction of
the latter might be, and probably would be, overthrown in parts.
of the Union; as it would be the exercise of the power of PROHIBITION; and might be extended to defeat the fruits of all judg-

ments rendered by federal courts, at the discretion of state courts
and judges. A conflict of jurisdiction, fraughtwith more dangerous consequences, could not well be supposed: and to concede
the validity of the discharge of Roth, would involve such a consequence, however innocently meant by the state judge; of
whose integrity of intention, we have no doubt.
If, during Roth's confinement in prison, he had been declared

JANUARY TERM, 1843.
Duncan v. Darst et al.

insolvent, by the Court of Common Pleas-of York county; then
it might have been a question properly made before the Circuit
Court of the United States, whether he should be discharged from
imprisonment. But as such a motion would have called into exercise the legal discretion of the court upon a mixed question of
law and fact; it can be affirmed with something like safety, that
the merely giving a bond to appear before the insolvent court,
would not have been sufficient to authorize his-release from imprisonment. Be this as it may, that court alone had jurisdiction
to act in the matter.
It is insisted for the defendant in error, that the act of Congress
of 1800, c. 4, for the relief of persons imprispned for debt, is the
only law by which a discharge can be had, from. a' ca. sa.,
awarded by a court of the United States. We do not think so.
By that law, the district judges are authorized by rhemselves, or
through commissioners appointed for the purpose, to discharge
the debtor: he must show, and swear, that he is not worth
thirty dollars; and give notice to the execution creditor, before a
dischargd can be ordered. The debtor may have, and usually has,
outstanding claimi to choses in action, and interests in property
of various kinds; perhaps contingent, and remote; probably of
little value, or it miglt turn out they are of much value: and as
he has to swear, that he has uio estate real or personal, in possession, reversion, or remainder, to the amount or value of thirty
dollars, it will often' bappen the oath cannot be taken, by the most
honest and conscientious debtor. The consequence is, he must
remain in prison until the humanity of the creditor interposes:
.and as he usually resides at a distance, cases of the greatest hardship and distress may occur, if the state laws afford no additional
remedy. Whereas, by the laws nf some of the states, he may
give bond and security, when the process issues from a state
court, to the sheriff, to appear at the return term of the writ, and
give in a schedule of his property; the title and possession of
which are conferred on the sheriff for the benefit of the execution creditor; and the proceeds are applied to the satisfaction of
the judgment: and then the debtor is permitted to take the hisolvent oath, and be discharged.
As the marshals and.courts of the United States, are necessarily governed by the same rules that the sheriffs and courts of 'the

810

SUPREME COURT.
Duncan v. Darst et al.

respective states are, in this respect, they must proceed in the
same manner.
So there are other modes of discharge prescribed by the state
laws, that can be executed just as conveniently and properly, by
the federal courts and judges, as they can be by the state courts
or judges,, in cases where the execution issues from the latter
courts. State laws of this description have been adopted by the
acts of Congress, as incident to the remedy: they are cumulative, and in addition to the act of Congress of 1800; both being
in force.
As we have adopted in effe ct the same construction, where
property had been levied on, in Amis v. Smith, 16 Peters, 312, it
would be harsh to hold otherwise, in restraint of personal liberty.
In that case, a forthcoming bond, for property levied on, had
been taken by the marshal, and the property been released according to the laws of Mississippi; the statute of that state, authorizing such a lond and the release of the property. This
mode of'proceeding was held to be incident to the process of execution, because it had been adopted by the act of Congress of
1828: previously, no delivery.bond could have been taken, nor
the property released by the marshal.
If bond and security could be taken for the delivery of property seized; the same could not be -refused, for the appearanc6
at court of the' defendant; conditioned that he give in a schedule
of his property, and take the benefit of the insolvent laws; when
the itatutes of the state where the proceeding was had, expressly
commanded it to be'done in like cases, under process issued from
the state courts, directed to their officers.
We think the judgment of the..Circuit Court upon the demurrer
was correct, and order it to be affirmed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the-United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On qonsideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages at
the rate of 6 pet centum per annum.

