SUPREME COURT.

JOSEPH W.

WALSH, ADMINISTRATOR OF WILLIAx RECTOR, DECEASED,

v. THE UNITED STATES.

THIS case came up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of
the Uniteoi States, for the district of Missouri.
On the motion of the attorney-general, of counsel for the defendant in error in this cause, the plaintiff in error having been
three times solemnly called by the marshal to come into court
and prosecute this writ of error and failing to do so: It is thereupon now here considered, ordered, and adjudged, by this court,
that this writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States,
for the district of Missouri, be and the same is hereby dismissed.

WALTER SMITH, JOHN CARTER, WILLIAX
SURVIVORS OF CLEMENT SMITH,

v. DENNIS

S.

NICHOLLS AND OTHERS,

DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,

.JONDRY.

When a collision of vessels occurs in an English port, the rights of the parties
depend upon the provisions of the British statutes then in force; and if
doubts exist-as to their true construction, this court will adopt that which is
sanctioned by their own courts.
By the English statutes as interpreted in their courts, the master or owner of a
vessel, trading to or from the port of Liverpool, is not answerable for damages occasioned by the fault of the pilot.
The-actual damage sustained by the party at the time and place of injury, and
not probable profits at the port of destination, ought to be the measure of
v.lue in damages, in iases of collision as well as in cases of insurance.
By whose fault the accident h .ppened, is a question of fact for the jury, to be
decided by them -upon the whole of the evidence.
THIS case

came up, by writ of error, from the Cirduit Court of

the United States, for the District of Columbia, and was argued
at January term, 1842. The court held it under a curia advhvare vult, and -pronounced their decision at the present term.
The facts in the case were these.
The plaintiffs in error, who were also plaintiffs in the court
below, were the owners- of a vessel called the Francis Depau,

