OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Syllabus

404 U. S.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. NASHFINCH CO., DBA JACK & JILL STORES
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT

No. 70-93.

Argued October 19, 1971-Decided December 8, 1971

A union which had begun organizing respondent company's employees charged the company with unfair labor practices. The
General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB)
issued a complaint, which a Trial Examiner sustained, recommending that respondent be ordered to cease and desist from such
practices. Before the NLRB acted, the union picketed respondent's stores and respondent, contending that the union's action
violated state law, sought and obtained an injunction from a state
court limiting the union's picketing activities. Subsequently the
NLRB issued an order accepting the Trial Examiner's recommendations and then brought this action in District Court to
restrain enforcement of the state court injunction on the ground
that it regulated conduct governed exclusively by the National
Labor Relations Act. The District Court held that it was precluded from granting relief by 28 U. S. C. § 2283, which prohibits
a federal court from enjoining state court proceedings except as
authorized by Act of Congress "or where necessary in aid of its
jurisdiction, or to protect or effectuate its judgments." The
court rejected the contention that the NLRB was within the
exception recognized in Leiter Minerals, Inc. v. United States, 352
U. S. 220, for suits brought by the United States. The Court of
Appeals affirmed, holding that for purposes of § 2283, the NLRB
is "an administrative agency of the United States, and is not the
United States." Held:
1. Since the action here does not seek to restrain unfair labor
practices against which the NLRB had issued its complaint but
is based on the general doctrine of pre-emption, the exception in
§ 2283 for matters "necessary in aid of its jurisdiction" is inapplicable. Capital Service, Inc. v. NLRB, 347 U. S. 501, distinguished.
Pp. 141-142.
2. For the purpose of preventing frustration of the National Labor
Relations Act, the NLRB has an implied authority to obtain a
federal injunction against state court action pre-empted by the

NLRB v. NASH-FINCH CO.
138

Opinion of the Court

Act; such an injunction falls within the exception to § 2283 recognized in Leiter Minerals, Inc., supra, for suits brought by the
United States, and the fact that the party moving for an injunction is a federal agency and not the Attorney General is irrelevant. Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S. 503. Pp. 142-148.
434 F. 2d 971, reversed and remanded.
DOUGLAS, J.,.delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
C. J., and STEWART, M\1ARSHALL, and BLACKMUN, JJ., joined.
WHITE, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 148, in Part I of which
BRENNAN, J., joined, post, p. 156.

Lawrence G. Wallace argued the cause for petitioner.
On the briefs were Solicitor General Griswold, Peter L.
Strauss, Dominick L. Manoli, Norton J. Come, and

Peter G. Nash.
William A. Harding argued the cause for respondent
pro hac vice. With him on the brief was Richard P.
Nelson.
Solomon I. Hirsh filed a brief for the Amalgamated
Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America,
AFL-CIO, as amicus curiae urging reversal.
Milton A. Smith, Jerry Kronenberg, and Gerard C.
Smetana filed a brief for the Chamber of Commerce of
the United States as amicus curiae urging affirmance.

MR. JUSTICE DOuGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Title 28 U. S. C. § 2283 provides:
"A court of the United States may not grant an
injunction

to stay

proceedings in

a

State court

except as expressly authorized by Act of Congress,
or where necessary in aid of its jurisdiction, or to

protect or effectuate its judgments."
The question is whether the National Labor Relations
Board may, through proceedings in a federal court, en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
404 U. S.

Opinion of the Court

join a state court order which regulates peaceful picketing governed by the federal agency. The District Court
rejected the Board's contention that it is within the
exception to § 2283,1 recognized in Leiter Minerals, Inc. v.

United States, 352 U. S.220, as respects suits brought by
the United States. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 434
F. 2d 971. The ease is here on a petition for a writ of
certiorari which we granted, 402 U. S.928.
When a union began organizing employees of certain
stores in Grand Island, Nebraska, the union filed unfair
labor practice charges against the company. The General Counsel issued a complaint. A hearing was held and
a Trial Examiner sustained the complaint and recommended that the company cease and desist. Shortly
thereafter and before the Board had acted, the union
picketed the stores. The company thereupon petitioned
the Nebraska state court for an injunction. The state
court issued a restraining order, limiting the pickets to
two at each store, enjoining them from blocking or picketing entrances or exits and from distributing literature pertaining to the dispute which would halt or slow traffic,
from instigating conversations with customers in any
manner relating to the dispute, from mass picketing,
from acts of physical coercion against persons driving to
work, and from doing any act in violation of Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 28-812, which- makes unlawful "loitering about,
picketing or patrolling the place of work

. . .

against

the will of such person." The injunction also bans
anyone other than a bona fide union -member from
picketing unless he becomes a defendant in the state
proceedings. Finally, the injunction bars anyone, other
than pickets and named defendants, from picketing, distributing handbills, or otherwise "caus[ing] to be pub' For the history of present § 2283 see H. R. Rep. No. 308, 80th
Cong., 1st Sess., A181.

NLRB v. NASH-FINCH CO.
138

Opinion of the Court

lished or broadcast any information pertaining to the
dispute . . . between the parties."
Later the Board entered its decision and order accepting in part the Trial Examiner's recommendations and
rejecting parts nut material to the present controversy.
The Board then filed this suit in the Federal District
Court seeking to restrain the enforcement of the state
court injunction on the ground that it regulated conduct
which was governed exclusively by the National Labor
Relations Act. As noted, both the District Court and
the Court of Appeals denied the Board relief. The Court
of Appeals held that for the purposes of § 2283 the Board
is "an administrative agency of the United States,
and is not the United States." 434 F. 2d, at 975.
Congress from the beginning has restricted the authority
of the federal judiciary to interfere with state court
actions. See Younger v. Harris, 401 U. S. 37, 43-44.
The present § 2283 is a revision of earlier provisions of
federal statutes which were construed to allow within
limits such federal injunctions in favor of federal agencies.
Bo'wles v. Willingham, 321 U. S. 503, 510. Any exception
in favor of federal agencies must, however, be "implied," ibid., unless it comes within the exceptions stated
in § 2283.
It is suggested that this federal injunction was
"in
aid" of the jurisdiction .of the federal court since the suit
is in the District Court by reason of 28 U. S. C. § 1337
which grants jurisdiction over "any civil action or proceeding arising under any Act of Coingress regulatih g
commerce." In CapitalService, Inc. v. NLRB, 347 U. S.
501, an employer invoked the aid both of a state court
and of the federal Board against picketing. The Board
sought a federal court injunction under § 10 (1) of the
Act, 29 U. S. C. § 160 (1), which specifically allows it
wherever an unfair labor practice respecting a secondary
boycott or picketing violative of § 8 (b) (4) or § 8 (b) (7)

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

of the Act is involved. We ruled that the state injunction "restrains conduct which the District Court was
asked to enjoin in the § 10 (1) proceeding." Id., at 505.
We held that under those circumstances an injunction
by the federal court was "necessary in aid of its jurisdiction" over commerce, because the federal court to exercise
its jurisdiction "freely and fully" must "first remove
the state decree." Id., at 506.
In the instant case the company did not file any
charges with the Board which claimed that the union's
picketing violated § 8 (b) (4) or § 8 (b) (7) of the Act,
73 Stat. 542 and 544, 29 U. S. C. . 158 (b)(4) and
§ 158 (b)(7).
Section 10 (j) gives the District Court similar authority
in respect of an unfair labor practice of the employer
under § 8 (a)(1) of the Act which protects the right*of
employees to organize. But a resort to court action, the
Board has held, does not violate § 8 (a)(1). See Clyde
Taylor Co., 127 N. L. R. B. 103, 109.
The action in the instant case does not seek an injunction to restrain specific activities upon which the Board
has issued a complaint but is based upon the general
doctrine of pre-emption. We therefore do not believe
this case falls within the narrow exception contained in
§ 2283 for matters "necessary in aid of its jurisdiction."
There is in the Act no express authority for the Board
to seek injunctive relief against pre-empted state action.
The question remains whether there is implied authority
to do so.
It has log been held that the Board, though not
granted express statutory remedies, may obtain appropriate and traditional ones to prevent frustration of the
purposes of the Act. We held in In re National Labor
Relations Board, 304 U. S. 486, 496, that even in the absence of an express statutory remedy, the Board might
petition for writ of prohibition against premature invo-

NLRB v. NASH-FINCH Co.
138

Opinion of the Court

cation ok the review jurisdiction of the Court of Appeals.
L. Amalgamated Workers v. Edison Co., 309 U. S. 261,
we held that the Board had implied authority 'to institute contempt proceedings for violation of court dedrees
enforcing orders of the Board. In Nathanson v. NLRB,
344 U. S. 25; we found an implied authority of the
Board to file claims in bankruptcy covering the sums
included in its back-pay awards. The claims were not
given priority under § 64 (a) (5) of the Bankruptcy Act,
but this was because "the United States [was] collecting
for the benefit of a private party," id., at 28, not as suggested, post, at 149, because the Board's juridical status
was something less than that of the United States.'
2 The basis of our decision in Nathanson was that "[t]he priority
granted by [§ 64 (a)(5), 11 U. S.C. § 104 (a)(5)] ...was designed
'to secure an adequate revenue to sustain the public burthens and
discharge the public debts.'" 344 U. S., at 27-28. Because there
was "no function . . . of assuring the public revenue" and "[t]he
beneficiaries of the claihns [were] private persons," id., at 28, we

found itinappropriate to apply the priority for claims owing the
United States and, instead, gave the claims the same "treatment
tha[t] other'wage claims enjoy[ed]." Id., at 29. The suggestion
that Nathanson isa stronger case for equatingthe status of the
Board to that of the United States disregards both the policies of the
Bankruptcy Act upon which we relied in that decision and the
federal pre-emption which inheres inthe present case.
Cases such as Reconstruction Finance Corp. v.J. G. Menihon
Corp., 312 U. S.81, do not support a miserly interpretation of the
Board's powers. There, we-held that costs of litigation could be
assessed against a corporation which Congress had launched into the
commercial world with the power to "sue and be sued." Contrary to
the dissent's assertion that the case turned on the failure of Congress
to manifest an intent "to bestow. the privileges and immunities of
the United States on a federal agency," post, at 150, our decision
there was based upon the grant of "the unqualified authority to sue
and be sued [which] placed petitioner upon an equal footing with
private parties as to the usual incidents of suits inrelation to the
payment of costs and allowances." 312 U. S., at 85-86.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

We conclude that there is also an implied authority
of the Board, in spite of the command of § 2283, to
enjoin state action where its federal power pre-empts
the field. Our starting point is contained in the observation of Mr. Chief Justice Hughes in Amalgamated
Workers v. Edison Co., supra, at 265.
"The Board as a public agency acting in the public
interest, not any private person or group, not any
employee or group of employees, is chosen as the
instrument to assure protection from the described
unfair conduct in order to remove obstructions to
interstate commerce."
The purpose of the Act was to obtain "uniform application" of its substantive rules and to avoid the "diversities and conflicts likely to result from a variety of local
procedures and attitudes toward labor controversies."
Garner v. Teamsters Union, 346 U. S. 485, 490. The
federal regulatory scheme (1) protects some activities,
though not violence (see United Mine Workers v. Gibbs,
383 U. S. 715, 729-731), (2) prohibits some practices, and
(3) leaves others to be controlled by the free play of
economic forces. We said in Garnerv. Teamsters Union,
supra, at 500:
"For a state to impinge on the area of labor combat designed to be free is quite as much an obstruction of federal policy as if the state were to declare
picketing free for purposes or by methods which the
federal Act prohibits."
In Leiter Minerals, Inc. v. United States, 352 U. S. 220,
a state suit over mineral rights in public lands was pending, the parties being private persons. The United States
brought suit in the federal court to quiet title to the
mineral rights and sought and obtained a federal injunc-

NLRB v. NASH-FINCH CO.
138

Opinion of the Court

tion against prosecution of the state proceedings. In
holding that § 2283 impliedly allowed such an exception

we said:
"The statute is designed to prevent conflict between federal and state courts. This policy is
much more compelling when it is the litigation of
private parties which threatens to draw the two
judicial systems into conflict than when it is the
United States which seeks a stay to prevent
threatened irreparable injury to a national interest.
The frustration of superior federal interests that
would ensue from precluding the Federal Government from obtaining a stay of state court proceedings except under the severe restrictions of 28
U. S. C. § 2283 would be so great that we cannot
reasonably impute such a purpose to Congress from
the general language of 28 U. S. C. §2283 alone."
Id., at 225-226.
In Leiter, the United States brought suit under the
authority of the Attorney General. Here it is the Board
that moved to prevent "irreparable injury to a national
interest." The Board is the sole protector of the "national interest" ' defined with particularity in the Act.
Leiter, of course, was initiated by the Attorney General;
but underlying the controversy were federal agencies in
the Department of the Interior responsible for administration of the public lands. The fact that the moving
party was a federal agency, not the Attorney General, was
8 Amalgamated Clothing Workers v. Richman Bros. Co., 348'U. S.
511, held that a private party under the protection of the Board's
order could not obtain injunctive relief in a federal court against an
anti-picketing order issued by a state court. And see Atlantic Coast
Line R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, 398 U. S. 281.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

4Q4 U. S.

considered irrelevant in Bowles v. WillingharT, supra,
where the Administrator of the Emergency Price Control
Act sued to enjoin a state court from interferiiig with
orders of the federal agency. An exception frorp the
general ban on federal injunctions against state court action was implied by reason of the fact that the method
of review of the orders of the federal agency was in the
Emergency Court of Appeals. But there was no suggestion that suit by or against the Administrator was
not a suit of the United States.' The purpose of § 2283
was to avoid unseemly conflict between the state and the
federal courts where the litigants were private persons,
not to hamstring the Federal Government and its agencies
in the use of federal courts to protect federal rights. We
can no more conclude here than in Leiter that a general
statute, limiting the power of federal courts to issue injunctions, had as its purpose the frustration of federal
systems of regulation. See Brown v. Wright, 137 F. 2d
484, 488. The frustration of superior federal interests
by the general language of § 2283 cannot reasonably be
imputed. See NLRB v. Sunshine Mining Co., 125 F.
2d 757, 762; NLRB v. New York State Board, 106 F.
4 Actions against the National Labor Relations Board are dismissed
on the ground that they are against a federal agency exercising a governmental regulatory function and so are suits against the United
States, which cannot be sued without the consent of Congress. Clover
Fork Coal Co. -v. NLRB, 107 F. 2d 1009. The same holds for
the Atomic Energy Commission, Cotter Corp. v. Seaborg, 370 F. 2d
686; the Civil Service Commission, Soderman v, U. S. Civil Service
Commission, 313 F. 2d 694; the Veterans Administration, Evans v.
U. S. Veterans Admin. Hospital, 391 F. 2d 261; and the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Holmes v. Eddy, 341 F. 2d 477. Similarly,
an action by the Director General, of Railroads was held to be on
behalf of the United States and thus was not barred by the relevant
statute of limitations. Davis v. Corona Coal Co., 265 U. S. 219.

NLRB v. NASH-FINCH CO.
138

Opinion of the Court

Supp. 749, 752; NLRB v. Industrial Commission, 84
F. Supp. 593, aff'd, 172 F. 2d 389.
The fact that the Board is given express authority to
seek enforcement of its orders in some sections of the
Act 'isnot persuasive Uhat the Act expresses a policy
to bar the Board from enforcing the national interests
on other matters. The instances where the Board is
given explicit authority to seek the aid of federal courts
are not exclusive examples, as we have already shown.
They are only particularized instances of specific enforcement devices relating to specified orders, not a denial by
implication that the Act and the Board would not be
entitled to federal aid or protection in other instances,
as illustrated by In re National Labor Relations Board,
supra; Amalgamated Workers v. Edison Co., supra; and
Nathanson v. NLRB, supra. The exclusiveness of the
federal domain is clear; and where it is a public authority
that seeks protection of that domain, the way seems
clear. For the Federal Government and its agencies, the
federal courts are the forum of choice. For them, as
Leiter indicates, access to the federal courts is "preferable in the context of healthy federal-state -relations."
352 U. S., at 226.
Whether there are parts of the state court injunction
5Congress has vested the Board with broad powers to seek injunctive relief in the district courts. Section 10 (1), 29 U. S. C.
§ 160 (1), for example, gives the Board power to obtain an injunction where an investigation produces reasonable cause to believe
that a charge of secondary boycott or illegal picketing activity is
true. Section 10 (j), 29 U. S. C. § 160 (j), provides a similar basis
of power for other unfair labor practices. "In case of contumacy
or refusal to obey a subpena issued to any person" during "hearings
and investigations, which, in the opinion of the Board, are necessary
and proper for the exercise of [its] powers" under §§ 9 and 10, 29
U. S. C. §§ 159 and 160, the Board may seek injunctive relief from a
district court requiring compliance. 29 U. S. C. § 161 (2).

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
WHITE,

J., dissenting

404 U. S.

that should survive our reversal of the judgment below
is a question we do not reach. It will be open on the remand of the cause.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, dissenting.

I
The National Labor Relations Board here sues in federal court to enjoin the enforcement of a state court
injunction against picketing.' Title 28 U. S. C. § 2283
bars such injunctions except in specified situations. One
exception permits injunctions by a federal court which are
"necessary in aid of its jurisdiction." The majority
rightfully concedes that this exception is inapplicable
'Although the Board had held an unfair labor practice hearing
and had found the employer guilty of certain unfair labor practices
while exonerating it of others, this proceeding is not relevant to the
issues in the present case because it did not concern the union's
picketing. The union had originally filed a complaint and an election petition with the Board, charging the employer with a refusal
to bargain and with interfering with the employees' rights to organize. A complaint was issued, and a hearing held. The trial
examiner on April 28, 1969, found the employer guilty of certain
§ 8 (a) (1) and § 8 (a) (5) unfair labor practices and entered a
cease-and-desist order against certain activities of the employer.
A month after the trial examiner's decision, the union began its
picketing, and the employer then secured the state court injunction
limiting the picketing that- is at issue in this case. On August 29,
1969, the Board filed a complaint in federal district court seeking
to restrain the 'employer from enforcing the state court injunction.
On September 17, 1969, the Board reversed the decision of the trial
examiner and held that the employer was not guilty of a § 8 (a) (5)
refusal to bargain nor of certain of the § 8 (a) (1) violations the
trial examiner had found, but it found the employer guilty of certain
other § 8 (a) (1) infractions and entered a limited cease-and-desist
order. Although the picketing occurred contemporaneously with
the § 8 (a) (1) and § 8 (a) (5) unfair labor practice proceeding, it
was never an issue before the Board.

NLRB v. NASH-FINCH CO.
138

WHITE,

J., dissenting

here. A state court injunction in no way interferes with
the Board's admitted power to prevent unfair labor
practices or to secure federal injunctions in those situations specifically identified by Congress. Capital Service, Inc. v. NLRB, 347 U. S. 501 (1954), amply protects
the Board's power to enjoin state court proceedings where
an unfair labor practice is in progress and the jurisdiction
of a federal court might later be invoked, but no such
Board adjudication was occurring lere concerning the
picketing. Capital Service is not controlling.
Leiter Minerals, Inc. v. United States, 352 U. S. 220
(1957), held that the restrictions of § 2283 do not apply
to the Federal Government. The Board identifies itself
with the United States and therefore asserts that § 2283
is inapplicable to it. I cannot agree. The juridical
status of the Board is not perfectly congruent with that
of the United States. For example, although it may file
claims for back pay in bankruptcy proceedings, it does
not enjoy thb priority accorded to debts owing to the
United States. Nathanson v. NLRB, 344 U. S. 25
(1952).2 Leiter Minerals had nothing to do with the cirIn Nathanson, as here, the Board was attempting to protect the
§ 7 rights of private parties. If anything, the situation in Nathanson was a much stronger one for equating the status of the Board
to that of the United States, since there the Board was eeking
to enforce a back pay award (by filing a proof of claim against the
employer, who had become a bankrupt, and asserting that its back
pay order was entitled to the priority of a debt owing the United
States under § 64 (a) (5) of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C. § 104
(a) (5)) which it had assessed after adjudicating the employer
guilty of a § 8 unfair labor practice. The Board was thus clearly
discharging a designated statutory function, as distinguished from the
instant case where the Board's jurisdiction to evaluate the disputed
picketing in an unfair labor practice proceeding is totally unclear.
The Court held, however, that "[i]t does not follow that because the
Board is an agency of the United States, any debt owed it is a debt
owing the United States" under the Bankruptcy Act, 344 U. S., at
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
WHITE, J., dissenting

404 U. S.

cumstances in which an agency such as the NLRB should
be treated as the United States; nor does that case purport to modify the rule of Reconstruction Finance Corp.
v. J. G. Menihan Corp., 312 U. S. 81, 85 (1941), that the
intention of Congress to bestow the privileges and immunities of the United States on a federal agency must be
clearly manifest.' The authority of the Federal Government to secure an injunction in Leiter Minerals was
implied under the judicial rule that a statute that divests pre-existing rights or privileges will not be applied to the sovereign in the absence of explicit language. 352 U. S., at 224. In the instant case, however,
we deal with a statutorily defined agency created after
the passage of § 2283 and possessing certain specified
injunctive powers. The Board can claim no residual
sovereignty such as that which was held in United States
27, and it disallowed the asserted prioritybon the ground that the
function of the precedence given the United States under the Bankruptcy Act was to insure the collection of claims that had accrued

to the fise. The majority's attempt to distinguish Nathanson is
less than convincing.
3 Both Menihan and the present case present the question of
whether a Governmental agency is clothed with a particular attribute
of sovereignty: in Menihan, an exemption from payment of costs
after unsuccessful litigation under Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 54 (d) which
was afforded to "the United States, its officers, and agencies .

.

. to

the extent permitted by law," in the present case, an implicit exemption from § 2283. The Court emphasized that because the doctrine
of sovereign immunity gives the Government a privileged position
it has been "appropriately confined," 312 U. S., at 84, and noted
that "the government does not become the conduit of its immunity
in suits against its agents or instrumentalities merely because they
do its work." Ibid., quoting Keifer & Keifer v. Reconstruction
Finance Corp., 306 U. S. 381, 388 (1939). Since "there is no presumption that the agent is clothed with sovereign immunity," 312
U. S., at 85, the Court examined the statute establishing the RFC
and concluded that there was no affirmative indication by Congress
that it had meant to exempt the RFC from paying. costs after it
had lost a lawsuit.

NLRB v. NASH-FINCH CO.
138

WHITE,

J., dissenting

v. United Mine Workers, 330 U. S. 258, 272-273 (1947),
to exempt the United States Government from the restrictions of tl,.z Norris-LaGuardia Act, and by a familiar
rule of statutory construction, the enumeration of its
injunctive powers should be held to preclude the existence
of other powers.' In light of the congressional disinclination to authorize anything more than extremely limited interferences with state court proceedings by federal
courts, and in view of this Court's reluctance to approve
such interference by way of the equitable powers of
federal courts, Younger v. Harris, 401 U. S. 37, 43-45
(1971); Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Brotherhood of
Locomotive Engineers, 398 U. S. 281, 286 (1970), implicit exceptions from § 2283 are at best suspect.
Section 2283 clearly permits injunctions against state
court proceedings if "expressly authorized by Act of
Congress." There is no claim here that the injunction
sought by the Board is expressly authorized by any statute. Indeed,'it is admitted that express authorization is
lacking, and we are asked to imply such power. The
Court does so, but its holding ignores both the language
and the traditional interpretatton of § 2283 and is inconsistent with the regulatory scheme of the LMRA.
Section 8 of the National Labor Relations Act, as
amended by the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947,
specifies unfair labor practices by employers and unions.
Section 9 provides for Board determination of bargaining
units and employee representatives. Section 10 specifies
the procedures to be employed in preventing unfair labor
practices prohibited by § 8. Two aspects of § 10 are
critical here. First, the Board is not granted unqualified
powers to enforce the Act. The statute conditions Board
4

This rule has been frequently recognized by the Court, United

States v. De la Maza Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 724 (1832); Kendall
v. United States, 107 U. S. 123, 125 (1883); Neuberger v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 311 U. S. 83, 88 (1940).

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
WHITE, J., dissenting

404 U. S.

action against unfair labor practices upon the filing of a
Charge; it may not act on its own motion. The requirement is jurisdictional. Montgomery Ward & Co. v.
NLRB, 385 F. 2d 760, 763 (CA8 1967); Texas Industries,
Inc. v. NLRB, 336 F. 2d 128, 132 (CA5 1964); Int'l
Union of Electrical,Radio & Machine Workers v. NLRB,
110 U. S. App. D. C. 91,94, 289 F. 2d 757; 760 (1960);
Consumers Power Co. v. NLRB, 113 F. 2d 38, 41-43
(CA6 1940); NLRB v. Hopwood Retinning Co., 98 F. 2d
97, 101 (CA2 1938); NLRB v. National Licorice Co., 104
F. 2d 655, 658 (CA2 1939), modified on other grounds,
309 U. S. 350 (1940); Douds v. Int'l Longshoremen's
Assn., 147 F. Supp. 103, 108 (SDNY 1956), aff'd, 241 F.
2d 278 (CA2 1957). See also National Licorice Co. v.
NLRB, 309 U. S. 350, 369 (1940). The Board has no
roving, unqualified power to prevent unfair labor practices or to enforce the provisions of § 7 declaring that
employees shall have the right to organize, bargain collectively, and otherwise engage in concerted activities.
In the case before us, no unfair labor practice charge
arising out of the union's picketing has been filed, either
by the union or by the employer. Yet the Board appeared in a federal court seeking an injunction seemingly
aimed at protecting employee rights guaranteed by § 7.
Second, after a charge has been filed and an unfair
labor practice complaint has been issued the Act grants
the Board the power to seek "appropriate temporary
relief or restraining order" from the courts. § 10 (j).
Further, § 10 (1) specifies in even greater detail the
circumstances under which temporary injunctions may
be secured when charges under §§8 (b)(4)(A), 8 (b)
(4)(B), 8 (b)(4)(C), 8(e), or 8 (b)(7) have been
filed with the Board. Sections 10 (e)- and 10 (f) define the powers of the Board and the courts to issue
injunctions in connection with enforcement of Board
orders after unfair labor practices have been adjudicated

NLRB v. NASH-FINCH CO.
138

WHITE, J., dissenting

by the Board. Nowhere in the statute is there a provision authorizing the Board to seek injunctions prior to
the filing of unfair labor practices or the issuance of
a complaint. Nowhere is the Board authorized to use
the injunctive power to enforce § 7 rights, except in
connection with adjudicating unfair practices. Congress
specified the powers of the Board with some care, particularly its powers to seek injunctions. Manifestly,
Congress was aware of its longstanding policy against
indiscriminate injunctions in labor disputes; for in § 10
(h) it exempted from the Norris-LaGuardia Act only
those situations where the courts are "granting appropriate temporary relief or a restraining order, or making
and entering a decree enforcing, modifying, and enforcing as so modified or setting aside in whole or in part an
order of the Board, as provided in this section .... "
(Emphasis added.) On the floor of the Senate, Senator
Smith answered the contention that the passage of § 10
(1) would weaken the Norris-LaGuardia Act:
"The only comment I can make on that statement
is that we were very careful in this bill to protect
the injunctive process as it is protected in the Norris-LaGuardia Act, except in exceptional cases where
the Government has to step in. In national paralysis cases we permit the Attorney General to step
in, and in the boycott and jurisdictional strike cases
we permit the National Labor Relations Board to
step in; and there is no other approach to the courts
for injunction except in those two situations." 93
Cong. Rec. 4283. (Emphasis added.)
In such a context, today's decision is improvident. As
a statutory matter under the Labor Management Relations Act, the Board has no power to seek the injunction
it now demands even absent the barriers established by
§ 2283. And under that section, it is error to clothe the

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
WHiTE,

J., dissenting

404 U.S.

agency with the exception applicable to the United
States. When an agency of the United States, rather
than the United States itself, is plaintiff in an injunction
action, the specific exceptions to § 2283 should be deemed
controlling, particularly that exception directing inquiry
to whether the injunction is "expressly authorized by Act
of Congress." Here it is plain to me that the Board has
no such power As it now claims to have, and I would
affirm the judgment below.
II
A few additional words are appropriate. Even if, contrary to my view, the Board has power to seek an injunction to prevent interference with § 7 rights absent an
unfair labor practice charge, it should not be able to
obtain equitable relief by the mere conclusory allegation
that such rights are "arguably" protected under the
LMRA. Although § 7 rights must be interpreted according to federal law, "Congress has not federalized the
entire law of labor relations," Motor Coach Employees
v. Lockridge, 403 U. S. 274, 309 (1971) (WHITE, J., dissenting), nor has it wholly displaced state and federal
courts in the administration of federal labor policy.
The employer in this case was subjected to picketing
that it thought illegal and unprotected. It sought and
was granted a state court injunction over protests that
state judicial power was pre-empted by federal law and
the exclusive jurisdiction of the NLRB. Rather than
allowing the union to appeal the injunction through the
state court system, and to this Court if necessary, as
the union would ordinarily have to do, Atlantic Coast
Line R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers,
supra, the Court today permits the Board to short-circuit
that process by securing a federal injunction, solely
upon allegations that the conduct of the union was arguably protected under federal law and was within the

NLRB v. NASH-FINCH CO.
138

WHITE,

J., dissenting

exclusive jurisdiction of the NLRB. The Board does
not, however, intimate what provisions of the LMRA
the union was violating in picketing this employer. It
does not assert the existence or imminence of an unfair
labor practice by either side in connection with the
picketing. It suggests no way in which the employer
could secure an adjudication of whether the union's conduct was protected under federal law. It does not indicate what "superior federal interests" the state decree
frustrated. Absent an unfair labor practice charge and
complaint, the Board itself has no jurisdiction at all,
let alone exclusive jurisdiction, to hold hearings and issue
cease-and-desist orders to prevent interference with § 7
rights in situations like this.

Congress' swift overruling of the Court's decision in
Guss v. Utah Labor Relations Bd., 353 U. S. 1 (1957),
by passage of NLRA § 14 (c), 73 Stat. 541, 29 U. S. C.
§ 164 (c), should make the Courtapproach with great
caution the cr'eation of another "vast no-man's land, subject to regulation by no agency or court." Id., at 10.
The NLRA was not enacted in a void and its strictures presuppose a certain degree of state authority
and regulation:
"A holding that the States were precluded from
acting [to enforce their trespass laws against invasions of private property] would remove the
backdrop of state law that provided the basis of congressional action but would leave intact the narrower restraint present in federal law through § 7
and would thereby artificially create a no-law area."
Taggart v. Weinacker's, Inc., 397 U. S. 223, 228
(1970) (BURGER, C. .J., concurring) (emphasis in
original).
The Board should not, therefore, be able to obtain
an injunction by merely alleging that conduct is "argu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
WHITE, J., dissenting

404 U. S.

ably protected" by the LMRA. This rationale for preempting the applicability of state law and the authority
of state courts developed to protect the exclusive jurisdiction of the Board. Int'l Longshoremen's Assn., Local
1416 v. Ariadne Shipping Co., 397 U. S. 195, 201 (1970)
(WHITE, J., concurring); Taggart v. Weinacker's, Inc.,
supra, at 227-228 (BURdER, C. J., concurring). Where
the Board is itself not only unwilling but apparently
powerless to move against the challenged conduct, this
rationale is a species of federal overkill, pre-empting the
field to protect nothing. Of course, federal law remains
paramount in its own arena, but if the Board has power
to enforce it in this situation, it should be required to
prove its case before obtaining an injunction and should
demonstrate that federal law has been violated and that
equitable relief is necessary to prevent its frustration.
An unwarranted and illogical lacuna in the legal regulation of labor-management relations should not be
extended. The Board should not be entitled to an injunction against state court proceedings unless it persuades a federal court that the state decree is actually
interfering with rights protected by federal law.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN

would affirm the judgment of

the Court of Appeals for the reasons stated in Part I of
the dissenting opinion of MR. JUSTICE WHITE.

