RUSSO v. UNITED STATES

1209

Opinion in Chambers

RUSSO v. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-159.

Decided August 16, 1971

Where the United States Attorney represented that no wiretaps had
been used in the case being investigated by the grand jury, and
where the applicant grand jury witness presented no evidence or
probable cause for believing that his wires or the wires of others
had been tapped or his privacy otherwise invaded, applicant's civil
contempt sentence for refusal to answer questions propounded by
the grand jury would not be stayed pending a petition for a writ
of certiorari where the sole ground for the refusal was the allegation that wiretaps had been used.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant has been sentenced in a civil contempt proceeding for refusal to answer questions before a grand
jury. Judge Barnes of the Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit issued a stay until August 9, 1971, to
permit an application for a further stay to this Court.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK continued the stay until August 16,
1971, so that I would have time to consider the matter
at my home in Goose Prairie, Washington.
I have gone over the application and the opposition
filed by the United States, and I deny the stay.
The principal question sought to be raised concerns
the standing of grand jury witnesses, under the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, to raise
the question whether the appearance and examination
of a witness before a grand jury resulted from illegal
electronic surveillance.*
*Title 18 U. S. C. ยง 2515 provides:
"Whenever any wire or oral communication has been intercepted,
no part of the contents of such communication and no evidence
derived therefrom may be received in evidence in any trial, hearing,

1210

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

The question is an important one on which there
seems to be conflict among the Circuits. Compare In re
Evans, 146 U. S. App. D. C. 310, 452 F. 2d 1239, and In re
Egan, 450 F. 2d 199 (CA3) (both holding that a grand
jury witness has standing to object to illegal wiretaps),
with Bacon v. United States, 446 F. 2d 667 (CA9), and
United States v. Parnas, 443 F. 2d 837 (CA9) (to the
contrary). But in this case, the United States represented to the District Court that "no wiretaps of any
kind were used in this case." Applicant, so far as I
can ascertain, did not present any evidence of or indicate probable cause for believing (or even suspecting)
that his wires had been tapped or that wires of others
had been tapped with the result that his privacy had
been implicated. There must be some credible evidence that the prosecution violated the law before
ponderous judicial machinery is invoked to delay grand
jury proceedings.
Denied.
It is so ordered.
or other proceeding in or before any court, grand jury, department,
officer, agency, regulatory body, legislative committee, or other
authority of the United States, a State, or a political subdivision

thereof if the disclosure of that information would be in violation
of this chapter."

Title 18 U. S. C. ยง 2518 (10)(a) provides, in part:
"Any aggrieved person in any trial, hearing, or proceeding in or
before any court, department, officer, agency, regulatory body, or
other authority of the United States, a State, or a political subdivision thereof, may move to suppress the contents of any intercepted wire or oral communication, or evidence derived therefrom,
on the grounds that"(i) the communication was unlawfully intercepted;
"(ii) the order of authorization or approval under which it was
intercepted is insufficient on its face; or
"(iii) the interception was not made in conformity with the order
of authorization or approval."

