CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS

157

Syllabus

ALLIED CHEMICAL & ALKALI WORKERS OF
AMERICA, LOCAL UNION NO. 1 v. PITTSBURGH PLATE GLASS CO., CHEMICAL
DIVISION, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE SIXTH CIRCUIT

No. 70-32.

Argued October 20, 1971-Decided December 8, 1971*

A labor organization that was the exclusive bargaining agent for
employees "working" on hourly pay rates at one of respondent
Company's facilities had negotiated with the Company an employee health insurance plan in which retired employees participated. Upon enactment of Medicare the Union sought mid-term
bargaining to renegotiate the insurance benefits for retired employees. The Company, maintaining that Medicare made the
insurance program useless and that retirees' benefits were not a
mandatory subject of collective bargaining, stated that it would
offer each retiree a stated monthly amount toward supplemental
Medicare coverage. When, despite Union objections, the Company made the offer, the Union filed unfair labor practice charges
with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). The NLRB
concluded that the Company was guilty of unfair labor practices
in violation of §§ 8 (a) (5) and (1) of the National Labor Relations
Act (NLRA) and issued a cease-and-desist order. The NLRB
held that the benefits of already retired employees were a mandatory subject of bargaining as "terms and conditions of employment" of the retirees themselves and, alternatively, of the active
bargaining unit employees. It also held that the Company's
"establishment of a fixed, additional option in and of itself
changed the negotiated plan of benefits" contrary to §§ 8 (d) and
8 (a) (5) of the Act. The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
disagreed with the NLRB and refused to enforce its cease-anddesist order. Held:
1. Retirees' benefits are not, within the meaning of §§ 8 (a) (5)
and 8 (d) of the NLRA, a mandatory subject of bargaining as
"terms and conditions of employment" of the retirees. Pp. 163176.
*Together with No. 70-39, National Labor Relations Board v.
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., Chemical Division, et al., also on certiorari to the same court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
404 U. S.

Syllabus

(a) The collective-bargaining obligation extends only to the
"terms and conditions of employment" of the employer's "employees," and the term "employee" has its ordinary meaning, i. e.,
someone who works for another for hire, which excludes retirees.
Pp. 165-171.
(b) The collective-bargaining -obligation is limited to the
"terms and conditions of employment" of the "employees" in the
bargaining unit appropriate for the purpose of collective bargaining. Retirees were not members of the unit represented by the
Union, because they were no longer "working." Nor could they
be members, since they lack a substantial community of interests
with the active employees in the unit. Pp. 171-175.
(c) Even if an industry practice of bargaining over retirees'
rights exists, which is disputed, that cannot change the law and
make into bargaining unit "employees" those who are not. Pp.
175-176.
2. Retirees' benefits are not a mandatory subject of bargaining
as "terms and conditions of employment" of the active employees
remaining in the bargaining unit, although their own future retirement plans are. Retirees' benefits do not "vitally" affect the
"terms and conditions of employment" of current employees. The
benefits that active workers may reap by including retired employees under the same health insurance contract as themselves
are speculative and insubstantial at best. The relationship that
the NLRB asserted exists between bargaining in behalf of retirees
and the negotiation of active employees' retirement plans is equally
too speculative a foundation on which to base an obligation to
bargain. Pp. 176-182.
3. Even if the Company's offering the retirees an exchange for
their withdrawal from the already negotiated health insurance'
plan was a unilateral mid-term "modification" of the plan within
the meaning of § 8 (d) of the Act, which is disputed, it did not
constitute an unfair labor practice, since it related to a permissive
rather than a mandatory subject of bargaining. Pp. 183-188.
427 F. 2d 936, affirmed.
BRENNAN, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,

C. J., and

STEWART, WHITE, MARSHALL,

and

BLACKMUN,

JJ., joined.

DOUGLAS, J., dissented.

Mortimer Riemer argued the cause for petitioner in
No. 70-32.

With him on the brief was Lawrence M.

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

159.

Opinion of the Court

Oberdank. Norton J. Come argued the cause for petitioner in No. 70-39. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Griswold, Richard B. Stone, Arnold Ordman,
Dominick L. Manoli, and Nancy M. Sherman.
Guy Farmer argued the cause for respondents in both
cases. With him on the brief was Nicholas R. Criss, Jr.
Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by
J. Albert Woll, Laurence Gold, Thomas E. Harris, and
Stephen I. Schlossberg for the American Federation of
Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations et al.,
and by Harold Edgar, David H. Marlin, and Robert J.
Mozer for the National Council of Senior Citizens.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed by
Milton A. Smith, Lawrence M. Cohen, and Gerard C.
Smetana for the Chamber of Commerce of the United
States; by Lambert H. Miller and Richard D. Gbdown
for the National Association of Manufacturers of the
United States; -and by William C. Treanor and John W.
Whittlesey for Union Carbide Corp.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Under the National Labor Relations Act, as amended,
mandatory subjects of collective bargaining include pension and insurance benefits for active employees,1 and an
employer's mid-term unilateral modification of such benefits constitutes an unfair labor practice. 2 This cause
I SEe, e. g., NLRB v. Black-Clawson Co., 210 F. 2d 523 (CA6
1954) (dictum); NLRB v. General Motors Corp., 179 F. 2d 221
(CA2 1950); W. W. Cross & Co. v. NLRB, 174 F. 2d 875 (CAI
1949); Inland Steel Co. v. NLRB, 170 F. 2d 247 (CA7 1948).
2 See, e. g., NLRB
v. Scam Instrument Corp., 394 F. 2d 884
(CA7 1968). Cf., e. g., NLRB v. Huttip Sash & Dqor Co., 377
F. 2d 964 (CA8 1967); C & S Industries, Inc., 158 N. L. R. B. 454
(1966). See also NLRB v. Katz, 369 U. S. 736 (1962).

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

presents the question whether a mid-term unilateral
modification that concerns, not the benefits of active
employees, but the benefits of already retired employees
also constitutes an unfair labor practice. The National
Labor Relations Board, one member dissenting, held
that changes in retired employees' retirement benefits
are embraced by the bargaining obligation and that an
employer's unilateral modification of them constitutes an
unfair labor practice in violation of §§ 8 (a) (5) and
(1) of the Act. 177 N. L. R. B. 911 (1969).1 The
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit disagreed and
refused to enforce the Board's cease-and-desist order, 427
F. 2d 936 (1970). We granted certiorari, 401 U. S.
907 (1971). We affirm the judgment of the Court of
Appeals.
I
Siice 1949, Local 1, Allied Chemical and Alkali Workers of America, has been the exclusive bargaining representative for the employees "working" on hourly rates
of pay at the Barberton, Ohio, facilities of respondent
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co.'
In 1950, the Union
and the Company negotiated an employee group health
insurance plan, in which, it was orally agreed, retired
employees could participate by contributing the required
8 The Board has since adhered to its decision in: Union Carbide
Corp.-Linde Div., 76 L. R. R. M. 1585 (1971); Westinghouse Electric Corp., 76 L. R. R. M. 1451 (1971); Union Carbide Corp., 75
L. R. R. M. 1548 (1970); and Hooker Chemical Corp., 75 L. R. R. M.
1357 (1970).
4The Labor Board's direction of election described the bargaining
unit as: "all employees of the Employer's plant and limestone mine
at Barberton, Ohio, working on hourly rates, including group leaders
who work on hourly rates of pay, but excluding salaried employees

and supervisors .

. . ."

(Emphasis supplied.)

The Union was re-

certified in 1970, after the Board's decision in this cause, with the
same unit description embracing only employees working on hourly

rates.

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

161

Opinion of the Court

premiums, to be deducted from their pension benefits.
This program continued unchanged until 1962, except for
an improvement unilaterally instituted by the Company
in 1954 and another improvement negotiated in 1959.
In 1962 the Company agreed to contribute two dollars
per month toward the cost of insurance premiums of
employees who retired in the future and elected to participate in the medical plan. The parties also agreed at
this time to make 65 the mandatory retirement age. In
1964 insurance benefits were again negotiated, and the
Company agreed to increase its monthly contribution
from two to four dollars, applicable to employees retiring
after that date and also to pensioners who had retired
since the effective date of the 1962 contract. It was
agreed, however, that the Company might discontinue
paying the two-dollar increase if Congress enacted a
national health program.
In November 1965, Medicare, a national health program, was enacted, 79 Stat. 291, 42 U. S. C. § 1395 et
seq. The 1964 contract was still in effect, and the Union
sought mid-term bargaining to renegotiate insurance
benefits for retired employees. The Company responded
in March 1966 that, in its view, Medicare rendered the
health insurance program useless because of a non-duplication-of-benefits provision in the Company's insurance
policy, and stated, without negotiating any change, that
it was planning to (a) reclaim the additional two-dollar
monthly contribution as of the effective date of Medicare; (b) cancel the program for retirees; and (c) substitute the payment of the three-dollar monthly subscription fee for supplemental Medicare coverage for each
retired employee.5
Hospital benefits
any social security
optional and, at the
dollar payment per

under Medicare are provided automatically to
annuitant 65 or over. Medical benefits are
relevant time period, required a monthly threeperson.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

The Union acknowledged that the Company had the
contractual right to reduce its monthly contribution, but
challenged its proposal unilaterally to substitute supplemental Medicare coverage for the negotiated health
plan. The Company, as it had done during the 1959
negotiations without pressing the point, disputed the
Union's right to bargain in behalf of retired employees,
but advised the Union that upon further consideration it
had decided not to terminate the health plan for pensioners. The Company stated instead that it would
write each retired employee, offering to pay the supplemental Medicare premium if the employee would withdraw from the negotiated plan. Despite the Union's
objections the Company did circulate its proposal to the
retired employees, and 15 of 190 retirees elected to accept
it. The Union thereupon filed unfair labor practice
charges.
The Board held that although the Company was not
required to engage in mid-term negotiations, the benefits
of already retired employees could not be regarded as
other than a mandatory subject of collective bargaining.
The Board reasoned that "retired employees are 'employees' within the meaning of the statute for the purposes of bargaining about changes in their retirement
benefits . . . ." 177 N. L. R. B., at 912. Moreover,
"retirement status is a substantial connection to the bargaining unit, for it is the culmination and the product of
years of employment." Id., at 914. Alternatively, the
Board considered "bargaining about changes in retirement
benefits for retired employees" as "within the contemplation of the statute because of the interest which active
employees have in this subject . . . ." Id., at 912.
Apparently in support of both theories, the Board noted
that " [b] argaining on benefits for workers already retired
is an established aspect of current labor-management
relations." Id., at 916. The Board also held that the

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

163

Opinion of the Court

Company's "establishment of a fixed, additional option
in and of itself changed the negotiated plan of benefits"
contrary to §§ 8 (d) and 8 (a)(5) of the Act. Id., at
918. Accordingly, the Company was ordered to cease
and desist from refusing to bargain collectively about
retirement benefits and from making unilateral adjustments in health 'insurance plans for retired employees
without first negotiating in good faith with the Union.
The Company was also required to rescind, at the
Union's request, any adjustment it had unilaterally instituted and to mail and post appropriate notices.6
II
Section 1 of the National Labor Relations Act declares
the policy of the United States to protect commerce "by
encouraging the practice and procedure of collective
bargaining and by protecting the exercise by workers of
full freedom of association, self-organization, and designation of representatives of their own choosing, for the
purpose of negotiating the terms and conditions of their
employment . . . ." 49 Stat. 449, as amended, 29 U. S. C.
§ 151.
To effectuate this policy, § 8 (a) (5) provides
that it is an unfair labor practice for an employer "to
refuse to bargain collectively with the representatives
of his employees, subject to the provisions of section"
9 (a). 49 Stat. 453, as amended, 29 U. S. C. § 158
(a)(5).
Section 8 (d), in turn, defines "to bargain
6The

Board found that the' Company had violated not only
§ 8 (a) (5) but § 8 (a) (1), and the Board framed its cease-and-desist
order accordingly. Section 8 (a)(1) makes it an unfair labor practice for an employer "to interfere with, restrain, or coerce employees
in the exercise of the rights guaranteed in" § 7, which include
"the right to self-organization ... [and] to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing . . . ." 49 Stat. 452,
as amended, 29 U. S. C. H 158 (a) (1), 157. However, the § 8 (a)
(1) violation derives from the alleged § 8 (a) (5) misconduct and,
therefore, presents no separate issues.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

collectively" as "the performance of the mutual obligation of the employer and the representative of the employees to meet at reasonable times and confer in good
faith with respect to wages, hours, and other terms and
conditions of employment...." 61 Stat. 142, 29 U. S. C.
§ 158 (d). Finally, § 9 (a) declares: "Representatives
designated or selected for the purposes of collective
bargaining by the majority of the employees in a unit
appropriate for such purposes, shall be the exclusive
representatives of all the employees in such unit for
the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates
of pay, wages, hours of employment, or other conditions
of employment . . . ." 49 Stat. 453, as amended, 29
U. S. C. § 159 (a).
Together, these provisions establish the obligation of
the employer to bargain collectively, "with respect to
wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment," with "the representatives of his employees" designated or selected by the majority "in a unit appropriate for such purposes." This obligation extends only
to the "terms and conditions of employment" of the
employer's "employees" in the "unit appropriate for such
purposes" that the union represents. See, e. g., Mine
Workers v. Pennington,381 U. S.657, 666 (1965); NLRB
v. Borg-Warner Corp., 356 U. S. 342 (1958); Packard Co. v. NLRB, 330 U. S.485 (1947); Phelps Dodge
Corp. v. NLRB, 313 U. S. 177, 192 (1941) (dictum);
Pittsburgh Glass Co. v. NLRB, 313 U. S. 146 (1941).
The Board found that benefits of already retired employees fell within these constraints on alternative
theories. First, it held that pensioners are themselves
"employees" and members of the bargaining unit, so
that their benefits are a "term and condition" of their
employment."
The Court of Appeals below seems to have read the Board's
decision as holding that retirees might be considered "employees"

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

165

Opinion of the Court

The Court of Appeals, in contrast, held "that retirees
are not 'employees' within the meaning of section 8 (a)
(5) and ... the Company was under no constraint to collectively bargain improvements in their benefits with
the Union." 427 F. 2d, at 942. The court reasoned, first,
"[r]etirement with this Company, as with most other
companies, is a complete and final severance of employment. Upon retirement, employees are completely removed from the payroll and seniority lists, and thereafter
they perform no serv;.ces for the employer, are paid no
wages, are under no restrictions as to other employment
or activities, and have no rights or expectations of reemployment, ' id., at 944; and, second, "[i]t has repeatedly been held that the scope of the bargaining unit
controls the extent of the bargaining obligation ....
[AnC] the unit certified by the Board as appropriate
was composed . . . only of presumably active employees . . . ." Id., at 945. For the reasons that follow
we agree with the Court of Appeals.
First. Section 2 (3) of the Act provides:
"The term 'employee' shall include any employee,
and shall not be limited to the employees of a particular employer, unless this subchapter explicitly
states otherwise, and shall include any individual
whose work has ceased as a consequence of, or in
connection with, any current labor dispute or because of any unfair labor practice, and who has not
obtained any other regular and substantially equivalent employment .

. . ."

49 Stat. 450, as amended,

29 U. S. C. § 152 (3).
under the Act, but not as finding that the retirees in this case
were. See 427 F. 2d, at 944 n. 14. We do not read the Board's
decision that way. The Board said: "For the reasons stated above,
the 'underlying economic facts' of this case persuade us that Congress intended to confer employee status on retired employees with
respect to health insurance plans affecting them." 177 N. L. R. B.
911,914.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

We have repeatedly affirmed that the task of determining
the contours of the term "employee" "has been assigned
primarily to the agency created by Congress to administer
the Act." NLRB v. Hearst Publications, 322 U. S.
111, 130 (1944). See also Iron Workers v. Perko, 373
U. S. 701, 706 (1963); NLRB v. Atkins & Co., 331
U. S. 398 (1947). But we have never immunized Board
judgments from judicial review in this respect. "[T]he
Board's determination that specified persons are 'employees' under this Act is to be accepted if it has 'warrant
in the record' and a reasonable basis in law." NLRB
v. Hearst Publicatiotis,supra, at 131.
In this cause we hold that the Board's decision is
not supported by the law. The Act, after all, as § 1
makes clear, is concerned with the disruption to commerce that arises from interference with the organization and collective-bargaining rights of "workers"-not
those who have retired from the work force. The inequality of bargaining power that Congress sought to remedy
was that of the "working" man, and the labor disputes
that it ordered to be subjected to collective bargaining
were those of employers and their active employees.
Nowhere in the history of the National Labor Relations
Act is there any evidence that retired workers are to be
considered as within the ambit of the collective-bargaining obligations of the statute.
To the contrary, the legislative history of § 2 (3) itself
indicates that the term "employee" is not to be stretched
beyond its plain meaning embracing only those who work
for another for hire. In NLRB v. Hearst Publications, supra, we sustained the Board's finding that newsboys were "employees" rather than independent contractors. We said that "the broad language of the Act's
definitions, which in terms reject conventional limitations
on such conceptions as 'employee,' . . . leaves no doubt
that its applicability is to be determined broadly, in

CHEMICAL WORKERS v.'PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

167

Opinion of the.Court

doubtful situations, by underlying economic facts rather
than technically and exclusively by previously established legal classifications." The term "employee" "must
be understood with reference to the purpose of the Act
and the facts involved in the economic relationship."
322 U. S., at 129. Congress reacted by specifically excluding from the definition of "employee" "any individual having the status of an independent contractor."
The House, which proposed the amendment, explained:
"An 'employee,' according to all standard dictionaries, according to the law as the courts have
stated it, and according to the understanding of almost everyone, . . . means someone who works for
another for hire. But in the case of National Labor
Relations Board v. Hearst Publications, Inc. ....,
the Board . . .held independent merchants who
bought newspapers from the publisher and hired
people to sell them to be 'employees.' The people
the merchants hired to sell the papers were 'employees' of the merchants, but holding the merchants
to be 'employees' of the publisher of the papers was
most far reaching. It must be presumed that when
Congress passed the Labor Act, it intended words it
used to have the meanings that they had when
Congress passed the act, not new meanings that, 9
years later, the Labor Board might think up. In
the law, there always has been a difference, and a
big difference, between 'employees' and 'independent
contractors.' 'Employees' work for wages or salaries
under direct supervision. . . . It is inconceivable
that Congress, when it passed the act, authorized the
Board to give to every word in the act whatever
meaning it wished. On the contrary, Congress intended then, and it intends now, that the Board give
to words not far-fetched meanings but ordinary

OCTOBER TERM, 1971

Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

meanings." H. R. Rep. No. 245, 80th Cong., 1st
Sess., 18 (1947) (emphasis added).
See also 93 Cong. Rec. 6441-6442; H. R. Conf. Rep.
The
No. 510, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., 32-33 (1947).
1947 Taft-Hartley revision made clear that general
agency principles could not be ignored in distinguishing
"employees" from independent contractors. NLRB v.
United Insurance Co., 390 U. S. 254, 256 (1968). Although Hearst Publications was thus repudiated, we do
not think its approach has been totally discredited. In
doubtful cases resort must still be had to economic and
policy considerations to infuse § 2 (3) with meaning.
But, as the House comments quoted above demonstrate,
this is not a doubtful case. The ordinary meaning of
"employee" does not include retired workers; retired
employees have ceased to work for another for hire.
The decisions on which the Board relied in construing
§ 2 (3) to the contrary are wide of the mark. The Board
enumerated "unfair labor practice situations where the
statute has been applied to persons who have not been
initially hired by an employer or whose employment has
terminated. Illustrative are cases in which the Board
has held that applicants for employment and registrants
at hiring halls--who have never been hired in the first
place-as well as persons who have quit or whose employers have gone out of business are 'employees' embraced by the policies of the Act." 177 N. L. R. B., at
913 (citations omitted). Yet all of these cases involved
people who, unlike the pensioners here, were members of
the active work force available for hire and at least in
that sense could be identified as "employees." No decision under the Act is cited, and none to our knowledge
exists, in which an individual who has ceased work without expectation of further employment has been held to
be an "employee."

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

169

Opinion of the Court

The Board also found support for its position in decisions arising under § 302 (c) (5) of the Labor Management Relations Act, 61 Stat. 157, 29 U. S. C. § 186 (c)
(5). Section 302 prohibits, inter alia, any payment by an
employer to any representative of any of his employees.
Subsection (c)(5) provides an exemption for payments
to an employee trust fund established "for the sole and
exclusive benefit of the employees of such employer"
and administered by equal numbers of representatives of
the employer and employees. The word "employee,"
as used in that provision, has been construed to include
"current employees and persons who were . . . current
employees but are now retired." Blassie v. Kroger Co.,
345 F. 2d 58, 70 (CA8 1965).' The Board considered
that it would be anomalous to hold "that retired employees are not 'employees' whose ongoing benefits are
fit subjects of bargaining under Section 8 (a) (5), while
under [§ 302 (c)] they are 'employees' for the purpose
of administering the same health insurance benefits.
It would create the further anomaly that a union would
not be entitled to act as the representative of retired
employees under Section 8 (a)(5), while subject to an
explicit statutory duty to act as their representative
under [§ 302 (c)]." 177 N. L. R. B., at 915.'
Yet the rationale of Blassie is not at all in point. The
question there was simply whether under § 302 (c) (5)
retirees remain eligible for benefits of trust funds estab1See also Garvison v. Jensen, 355 F. 2d 487 (CA9 1966); Local
No. 688, Int'l Bro. of Teamsters v. Townsend, 345 F. 2d 77 (CA8
1965). Section 501 (3) of the Labor Management Relations Act
provides that the term "employee" as used in that legislation has
the same meaning as when used in the Nation81 Labor Relations Act.
61 Stat. 161, 29 U. S. C. § 142 (3)..
9 Although the Board referred to § 302 (b) rather than § 302 (c),
it is clear from the context of the Board's discussion that the latter
citation was the on p intended.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

lished during their active employment. The conclusion
that they do was compelled by the fact that the contrary reading of the statute would have made illegal
contributions to pension plans, which the statute expressly contemplates in subsections (A) and (C). 1" No
comparable situation exists in this case. Furthermore,
there is no anomaly in the conclusion that retired workers
are "employees" within § 302 (c) (5) entitled to the
benefits negotiated while they were active employees, but
are not "employees" whose ongoing benefits are embraced by the bargaining obligation of § 8 (a) (5). Contrary to the Board's assertion, the union's role in the
administration of the fund is of a far different order
from its duties as collective-bargaining agent.

To accept

the Board's reasoning that the union's § 302 (c) (5) responsibilities dictate the scope of the § 8 (a) (5) collective10 Section 302 (c) (5) provides an exemption:
"with respect to money or other thing of value paid to a trust fund
established by such [employee] representative, for the sole and exclusive benefit of the employees of such employer, and their families
and dependents . . . : Provided, That (A) such payments are held
in trust for the purpose of paying . . . for the benefit of employees,
their families and dependents, for medical or hospital care, pensions
on retirement or death of employees, compensation for injuries or
illness resulting from occupational activity or insurance to provide
any of the foregoing, or unemployment benefits or life insurance,
disability and sickness insurance, or accident insurance; . . . and
(C) such payments as are intended to be used for the purpose of
providing pensions or annuities for employees are made to a separate
trust which provides that the funds held therein cannot be used
for any purpose other than paying such pensions or annuities .... .
(Emphasis supplied.)
The express reference to pensions in subsections (A) and (C) requires that the phrase "for the sole and exclusive benefit of the
employees of such employer" in the introductory clause to § 302 (c)
(5) be read to include retirees.

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

171

Opinion of the Court

bargaining obligation would be to allow the tail to wag
the dog.1
Second. Section 9 (a) of the Labor Relations Act accords representative status only to the labor organization selected or designated by the majority of employees
in a "unit appropriate" "for the purposes of collective
bargaining." Section 9 (b) goes on to direct the Labor
Board to "decide in each case whether, in order to assure
to employees the fullest freedom in exercising the rights
guaranteed by this subchapter, the unit appropriate for
the purposes of collective bargaining shall be the employer
unit, craft unit, plant unit, or subdivision thereof . .. ."
49 Stat. 453, as amended, 29 U. S. C. § 159 (b). We
have always recognized that, in making these determinations, the Board is accorded broad discretion. See
NLRB v. Hearst Publications, 322 U. S., at 132-135;
Pittsburgh Glass Co. v. NLRB, 313 U. S. 146 (1941).
Moreover, the Board's findings of fact, if supported by
substantial evidence, are conclusive. National Labor
Relations Act, § 10 (e), 49 Stat. 454, as amended, 29
U. S. C. § 160 (e). But the Board's powers in respect
of unit determinations are not without limits, and if its
11 The Board adds an argument in its brief for construing "employee" in §§ 302 (c) (5) and 8 (a) (5) in pari materia. Not to read
the term that way, the Board contends, "would frequently interject

into welfare plan negotiations the troublesome threshold question
whether particular proposals involved the administration of the
written agreement, in which case the union would be entitled to
represent retired employees, or its renegotiation, in which case ...
it would not." However, nothing we hold today precludes permissive bargaining over the benefits of already retired employees.
Moreover, to the extent that "the troublesome threshold question"
posited by the Board may arise, it is no different from the task of
distinguishing the distinct functions of contract application and
contract negotiation which employers and labor organizations are
already accustomed to addressing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

decision "oversteps the law," Packard Co. v. NLRB,
330 U. S.' at 491, it must be reversed.
In this cause, in addition to holding that pensioners are
not "employees" within the meaning of the collectivebargaining obligations of the Act, we hold that they were
not and could not be "employees" included in the bargaining unit. The unit determined by the Board to be
appropriate was composed of "employees of the Employer's plant . . . working on Aourly rates, including
group leaders who work on hourly rates of pay . .. .
Apart from whether retirees could be considered "erployees" within this language, they obviously were not
employees "working" or "who work" on hourly rates of
pay. Although those terms may include persons on
temporary or limited absence from work, such as employees on military duty, it would utterly destroy the
function of language to read them as embracing those
whose work has ceased with no expectation of return.
In any event, retirees could not properly be joined with
the active employees in the unit that the Union represents. "As a standard, the Board must comply ... with
the requirement that the unit selected must be one to
effectuate the policy of the act, the policy of efficient
collective bargaining." Pittsburgh Glass Co. v. NLRB,
supra, at 165. The Board must also exercise care
that the rights of employees under § 7 of the Act "to
self-organization . . . [and] to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing" are duly
respected. In line with these standards, the Board regards as its primary concern in resolving unit issues "to
group together only employees who have substantial
mutual interests in wages, hours, and other conditions of
employment." 15 NLRB Ann. Rep. 39 (1950). Such
a mutuality of interest serves to assure the coherence
among employees necessary for efficient collective bargaining and at the same time to prevent a function-

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

173

Opinion of the Court

ally distinct minority group of employees from being
submerged in an overly large unit. See Kalamazoo Paper Box Corp., 136 N. L. R. B. 134, 137 (1962).

Here, even if, as the Board found, active and retired
employees have a common concern in assuring that the

latter's benefits remain adequate, they plainly do not
share a community of interests broad enough to justify
inclusion of the retirees in the bargaining unit. Pensioners' interests extend only to retirement benefits, to
the exclusion of wage rates, hours, working conditions,

and all other terms of active employment.

Incorpora-

tion of such a limited-purpose constituency in the bargaining unit would create the potential for severe internal conflicts that would impair the unit's ability to
function and would disrupt the processes of collective

bargaining. Moreover, the risk cannot be overlooked
that union representatives on occasion might see fit to
bargain for improved wages or other conditions favoring
active employees at the expense of retirees' benefits. 2
But we need not rely on our own assessment of the
probable consequences of including retirees in the bargaining unit to conclude that the resulting unit would
12 The Board argues in its brief that retirees will be at a greater
disadvantage if they are required to bargain individually with the
employer than if they are represented by the union. The argument
assumes that collective bargaining over the benefits of already
retired employees would be a one-way street in their favor. The
assumption, however, is not free from doubt, as the Board itself
recognized in its opinion, see 177 N. L. R. B., at 917, in declining
to take a position on the question. Compare Elgin, J. & E. R. Co. v.
Burley, 325 U. S. 711 (1945), adhered to on rehearing, 327 U. S.
661 (1946), with §9 (a) of the National Labor Relations Act. In
any event, in representing retirees in the negotiation of retirement
benefits, the union would be bound to balance the interests of all
its constituents, with the result that the interests of active employees
might at times be preferred to those of retirees. See Recent Developments, 68 Mich. L. Rev. 757, 766-767, 772-773 (1970).

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

be inappropriate. The Board itself has previously recognized that retirees do not have a sufficient interest to
warrant participation in the election of a collective-bargaining agent. In Public Service Corp. of New Jersey,
72 N. L. R. B. 224, 229-230 (1947), for example, the
Board stated:
"We have considerable doubt as to whether or not
pensioners are employees within the meaning of
Section 2 (3) of the Act, since they no longer perform any work for the Employers, and have little
expectancy of resuming their former employment.
In any event, even if pensioners were to be considered as employees, we believe that they lack a
substantial community of interest with the employees who are presently in the active service of
the Employers. Accordingly, we find that pensioners are ineligible to vote in the election." 13
The Board argues, however, that the pensioners' ineligibility to vote is not dispositive of their right to membership in the bargaining unit, since the franchise and the
right to membership depend upon different levels of
intereso, in the unit. 4 Yet in W. D. Byron & Sons of
Maryland, Inc., 55 N. L. R. B. 172, 174-175 (1944),
which the Board found controlling in Public Service Corp.
of New Jersey, see 72 N. L. R. B., a.t 230 n. 10, the
Board not merely held ineligible to vote, but expressly
See also J. S. Young Co., 55 N. L. R. B. 1174 (1944). The
Board indicates in its brief that it adheres to these decisions.
Indeed, we are informed by the Company that the Board excluded
retirees from the representation election that it conducted following its decision in this case. See n. 4, supra.
14 The Board on that theory at one time withheld the right to
vote from certain employees who were, nonetheless, acknowledged
unit members. See, e. g., H. P. Wasson & Co., 105 N. L. R. B.
373 (1953). However, that policy was subsequently abandoned.
See Post Houses, Inc., 161 N. L. R. B. 1159, 1160 n. 1, 1172 (1966).,
13

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

175

Opinion of the Court

excluded from the bargaining unit pensioners who had
little expectation of further employment. In any event,
it would be clearly inconsistent with the majority rule
principle of the Act to deny a member of the unit at the
time of an election a voice in the selection of his bargaining representative.15 The Board's own holdings thus
compel the conclusion that a unit composed of active and
retired workers would be inappropriate.
Third. The Board found that bargaining over pen.
sioners' rights has become an established industrial prac15 Section 7 of the Act declares that "[e]mployees shall have the
right . . . to bargain collectively through representatives of their
own choosing .... ." Section 9 (a), in turn, provides that "[r]epresentatives designated or selected . . . by the majority of the employees in a unit . . . shall be the exclusive representatives of all the
employees in such unit .... ." The majority rule principle that the

Act thus establishes was adopted after considerable public controversy. Both the House and the Senate committees that reported out the Wagner bill were at pains to explain that the
principle not only was, necessary for the effective functioning of
collective bargaining but was sanctioned by the philosophy of democratic institutions. Moreover, they carefully reviewed the provisions
that the Act establishes to protect minority groups within the bargaining unit, such as the prohibition on discrimination in favor of
union members. See H. R. Rep. No. 972, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.,
18-20 (1935); S. Rep. No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., 13-14 (1935).
The language of §§ 7 and 9 (a), coupled with this legislative history,
makes plain that all unit members are enfranchised.
This is not to say that the Board is without power to develop
reasonable regulations governing who may vote in Board-conducted
elections. The House committee expressly indicated that the Board
may "make and publish appropriate rules governing the conduct
of elections and determining who may participate therein." H. R.
Rep. No. 972, supra, at 20. Thus, the Board may, for example,
withhold the ballot from employees hired after the election eligibility
date. As Member Zagoria explained in his dissent from the Board's
decision below, that rule "provides an administrative cutoff date for
convenience in conducting elections, and to prevent payroll padding
and other possible abuses." 177 N. L. R. B., at 919.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

tice. But industrial practice cannot alter the conclusions
that retirees are neither "employees" nor bargaining unit
members. The parties dispute whether a practice of
bargaining over pensioners' benefits exists and, if so,
whether it reflects the views of labor and management
that the subject is not merely a convenient but a mandatory topic of negotiation."
But even if industry commonly regards retirees' benefits as a statutory subject of
bargaining, that would at most, as we suggested in Fibreboard Corp. v. NLRB, 379 U. S. 203, 211 (1964),
reflect the interests of employers and employees in the
subject matter as well as its amenability to the collectivebargaining process; it would not be determinative. Common practice cannot change the law and make into bargaining unit "employees" those who are not.
III
Even if pensioners are not bargaining unit "employees,"
are their benefits, nonetheless, a mandatory subject of
collective bargaining as "terms and conditions of employment" of the active employees who remain in the
unit? The Board held, alternatively, that they are, on
the ground that they "vitally" affect the "terms and
conditions of employment" of active employees principally
by influencing the value of both their current and future
benefits. 177 N. L. R. B., at 915.'
The Board ex16The Company also contends that the record is barren of any

evidence to support the Board's findings on industry experience.
Even if that is the case, the evidence cited by the Board may
have properly been officially noticed. But we need not decide that
question in view of our conclusion that the industrial practice that
the Board found to exist does not validate its holdings.
" The additional interests that the Board found active employees
have in pensioners' benefits were properly dealt with by the Court
of Appeals below and do not need extended consideration here.
The Board stated that "the Union and current employees have a
legitimate interest ia assuring that negotiated retirement benefits

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

177

Opinion of the Court

plained: "It is not uncommon to group active and retired
employees under a single health insurance contract with
the result that .. .it is the size and experience of the
entire group which may determine insurance rates." Ibid.
Consequently, active employees may "benefit from the
membership of retired employees in the group whose
participation enlarges its size and might thereby lower
costs per participant." Ibid. Furthermore, the actual
value of future benefits depends upon contingencies, such
as inflation and changes in public law, which the parties
cannot adequately anticipate and over which they have
little or no control. By establishing a practice of repreare in fact paid and administered in accordance with the terms
and intent of their contracts . .

. ."

177 N. L. R. B., at 915.

That

interest is undeniable. But Congress has specifically established a
remedy for breaches of collective-bargaining agreements in § 301
of the Labor Management Relations Act. 61 Stat. 156, 29 U. S. C.
§ 185. See, e. g., Upholsterers' Int'l Union v. American Pad &
Textile Co., 372 F. 2d 427 (CA6 1967). Similarly, Congress has
expressly provided for employee representation in the administration
of trust funds under § 302 (c) (5) of that Act. In any event, the
question presented is not whether retirement rights are enforceable,
but whether they are subject to compulsory bargaining.
The Board also noted "that changes in retirement benefits for
retired employees affect the availability of employer funds for active
employees." 177 N. L. R. B., at 915. That, again, is quite true.
But countless other employer expenditures that concededly are not
subjects of mandatory bargaining, such as supervisors' salaries and
dividends, have a similar impact. The principle that underlies
the Board's argument sweeps with far too broad a brush. The
Board does suggest in its brief that pensioners' benefits are different
from other employer expenses because they are normally regarded
as part of labor costs. The employer's method of accounting, however, hardly provides a suitable basis for distinction. In any case,
the impact on active employees' compensation from changes in
pensioners' benefits is, like the effect discussed in the text of including retirees under the same health insurance plan as active employees, too insubstantial to bring those changes within the collectivebargaining obligation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

senting retired employees in resolving those contingencies as they arise, active workers can insure that their
own retirement benefits will survive the passage of time.
This, in turn, the Board contends, facilitates the peaceful
settlement of disputes over active employees' pension
plans. The Board's arguments are not insubstantial,
but they do not withstand careful scrutiny.
Section 8 (d) of the Act, of course, does not immutably
fix a list of subjects for mandatory bargaining. See, e. g.,
Fibreboard Corp. v. NLRB, supra, at 220-221 (STEW.ART, J., concurring); Richfield Oil Corp. v. NLRB, 97
U. S. App. D. C. 383, 389-390, 231 F. 2d 717, 723-724
(1956). But it does establish a limitation against which
proposed topics must be measured. In general terms,
the limitation includes only issues that settle an aspect
of the relationship between the employer and employees.
See, e. g., NLRB v. Borg-Warner Corp., 356 U. S. 342
(1958). Although normally matters involving individuals outside the employment relationship do not fall
within that category, they are not wholly excluded. In
Teamsters Union v. Oliver, 358 U. S. 283 (1959), for
example, an agreement had been negotiated in the trucking industry, establishing a minimum rental that carriers
would pay to truck owners who drove their own vehicles
in the carriers' service in place of the latter's employees.
Without determining whether the owner-drivers were
themselves "employees," we held that the minimum
rental was a mandatory subject of bargairting, and hence
immune from state antitrust laws, because the term "was
integral to the establishment of a stable wage structure
for clearly covered employee-drivers." United States v.
Drum, 368 U. S.370, 382-383, n. 26 (1962).8 Similarly,
18

Specifically, we noted in Oliver, 358 U. S., at 294:

"[The collective-bargaining agreement consfitutes] . . . a direct
frontal attack upon a problem thought to threaten the maintenance
of the basic wage structure established by the .. .contract. The

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

179

Opinion of the Court

in FibreboardCorp. v. NLRB, supra, at 215, we held that
"the type of 'contracting out' involved in this case-the
replacement of employees in the existing bargaining unit
with those of an independent contractor to do the same
work under similar conditions of employment-is a statutory subject of collective bargaining . . . ." As we said
there, id., at 213, "the work of the employees in the
bargaining unit was let out piecemeal in Oliver, whereas
here the work of the entire unit has been contracted
out."
The Board urges that Oliver and Fibreboard provide
the principle governing this cause. The Company, on
the other hand, would distinguish those decisions on the
ground that the unions there sought to protect employees
from outside threats, not to represent the interests of
third parties. We agree with the Board that the principle of Oliver and Fibreboard is relevant here; in each
case the question is not whether the third-party concern
is antagonistic to or compatible with the interests of
bargaining-unit employees, but whether it vitally affects
the "terms and conditions" of their employment.19 But
we disagree with the Board's assessment of the significance
of a change in retirees' benefits to the "terms and conditions of employment" of active employees.
inadequacy of a rental which means that the owner makes up his
excess costs from his driver's wages not only clearly bears a close
relation to labor's efforts to improve working conditions but is in
fact of vital concern to the carrier's employed drivers; an inadequate
rental might mean the progressive curtailment of jobs through withdrawal of more and more carrier-owned vehicles from service."
19 This is not to say that application of Oliver and Fibreboard
turns only on the impact of the third-party matter on employee
interests. Other considerations, such as the effect on the employer's
freedom to conduct his business, may be equally important. See
Fibreboard Corp. v. NLRB, supra, at 217 (STEWART, J., concurring).
But we have no occasion in this case to consider *vhat, if any, those
considerations may be.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

The benefits that active workers may reap by including retired employees under the same health insurance
contract are speculative and insubstantial at best. As
the Board itself acknowledges in its brief, the relationship between the inclusion of retirees and the overall insurance rate is uncertain. Adding individuals increases
the group experience and thereby generally tends to
lower the rate, but including pensioners, who are likely
to have higher medical expenses, may more than offset
that effect. In any event, the impact one way or the
other on the "terms and conditions of employment" of
active employees is hardly comparable to the loss of jobs
threatened in Oliver and Fibreboard. In Fibreboard,
after holding that "the replacement of employees in the
existing bargaining unit with those of an independent
contractor to do the same work under similar conditions
of employment" is a mandatory subject of bargaining,
we noted that our decision did "not encompass other
forms of 'contracting out' or 'subcontracting' which arise
daily in our complex economy." 379 U. S., at 215. The
inclusion of retirees in the same insurance contraet surely
has even less impact on the "terms and conditions of
employment" of active employees than some of the contracting activities that we excepted from our holding
in Fibreboard.
The mitigation of future uncertainty and the facilitation of agreement on active employees' retirement plans,
that the Board said would follow from the union's
representation of pensioners, are equally problematical.
To be sure, the future retirement benefits of active
workers are part and parcel of their overall compensation
and hence a well-established statutory subject of bargaining. Moreover, provisions of those plans to guard
against future contingencies are equally subsumed under
the collective-bargaining obligation. Under the Board's

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

181

Opinion of the Court

theory, active employees undertake to represent pensioners in order to protect their own retirement benefits,
just as if they were bargaining for, say, a cost-of-living
escalation clause. But there is a crucial difference.

Having once found it advantageous to bargain for improvements in pensioners' benefits, active workers are
not forever thereafter bound to that view or obliged to
negotiate in behalf of retirees again.2" To the contrary, they are free to decide,' for example, that current
income is preferable to greater certainty in their own
retirement benefits or, indeed, to their retirement benefits

altogether.

By advancing pensioners' interests now, ac-

tive employees, therefore, have no assurance that they
will be the beneficiaries of similar representation when
they retire. The insurance against future contingencies
20 Since retirees are not members of the bargaining unit, the
bargaining agent is under no statutory duty to represent them in
negotiations with the employer. Nothing in Railroad Trainmen v.
Howard, 343 U. S.768 (1952), is to the contrary. In Howard we
held that a union may., not use the powers accorded it under law for
the purposes of racial discrimination even against workers who are
not members of the bargaining unit represented by the union. The
reach and rationale of Howard are a matter of some conjecture.
See Cox, The Duty of Fair Representation, 2 Vill. L. Rev. 151,
157-159 (1957). But whatever its theory, the case obviously does
not require a union affirmatively to represent nonbargaining unit
members or to take into account their interests in making bona
fide economic decisions in behalf of those whom it does represent.
This does not mean that when a union bargains for retirees-which
nothing in this opinion precludes if the employer agrees-the retirees
are without protection. Under established contract principles, vested
retirement rights may not be altered without the pensioner's consent.
See generally Note, 70 Col. L. Rev. 909, 916-920 (1970). The retiree, moreover, would have a federal remedy under § 301 of the
Labor Management Relations Act for breach of contract if his benefits
were unilaterally changed. See Smith v. Evening News Assn., 371
U. S.195, 200-201 (1962); Lewis v. Benedict Coal Corp., 361 U. S.
459, 470 (1960).

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

that they may buy in negotiating benefits for retirees is
thus a hazardous and, therefore, improbable investment,
far different, from a cost-of-living escalation clause that
they could contractually enforce in court. See n. 20,
supra. We find, accordingly, that the effect that the
Board asserts bargaining in behalf of pensioners would
have on' the negotiation of active employees' retirement plans is too speculative a foundation on which to
base an obligation to bargain.
Nor does the Board's citation of industrial practice
provide any ground for concluding otherwise. The Board
states in its brief that "[n]either the bargaining representative nor the active employees . . . can help but
recognize that the active employees of today are the
retirees of tomorrow-indeed, such a realization undoubtedly underlies the widespread industrial practice of
bargaining about benefits of those who have already retired . . . and explains the vigorous interest which the
Union has taken in this case." But accepting the Board's
finding that the industrial practice exists, we find nowhere a particle of evidence cited showing that the
explanation for this lies in the concern of active workers
for their own future retirement benefits.
We recognize that "classification of bargaining subjects as 'terms [and] conditions of employment' is a
matter concerning which the Board has special expertise."
Meat Cutters v. Jewel Tea, 381 U. S. 676, 685-686 (1965).
The Board's holding in this cause, however, depends on
the application of law to facts, and the legal standard to
be applied is ultimately for the courts to decide and
enforce. We think that in holding the "terms and conditions of employment" of active employees to be vitally
affected by pensioners' benefits, the Board here simply
neglected to give the adverb its ordinary meaning. Cf.
NLRB v. Brown, 380 U. S. 278, 292 (1965).

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

183

Opinion of the Court

IV
The question remains whether the Company committed an unfair labor practice by offering retirees an
exchange for their withdrawal from the already negotiated health insurance plan. After defining "to bargain
collectively" as meeting and conferring "with respect to
wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment," § 8 (d) of the Act goes on to provide in
relevant part that "where there is in effect a collectivebargaining contract covering employees in an industry
affecting commerce, the duty to bargain collectively shall
also mean that no party to such contract shall terminate
or modify such contract" except upon (1) timely notice
to the other party, (2) an offer to meet and confer "for
the purpose of negotiating a new contract or a contract
containing the proposed modifications," (3) timely notice
to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service and
comparable state or territorial agencies of the existence
of a "dispute," and (4) continuation "in full force and
effect [of] . . . all the terms and conditions of the existing contract . . . until [its] expiration date . .. ,21
21Section 8 (d) reads in full:
"For the purposes of this section, to bargain collectively is the
performance of the mutual obligation of the employer and the
representative of the employees to meet at reasonable times and
confer in good faith with respect to wages, hours, and other terms
and conditions of employment, or the negotiation of an agreement,
or any question arising thereunder, and the execution of. a written
contract incorporating any agreement reached if requested by either
party, but such obligation does not compel either party to agree
to a proposal or require the making of a concession: Provided, That
where there is in effect a collective-bargaining contract covering
employees in an industry affecting commerce, the duty to bargain
collectively shall also mean that no party to such contract shall
terminate or modify such contract, unless the party desiring such
termination or modification"(1) serves a written notice upon the other party to the contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

The Board's trial examiner ruled that the Company's
action in offering retirees a change in their health plan
did not amount to a "modification" of the collective-bargaining agreement in violation of § 8 (d), since the pensioners had merely been given an additional option
that they were free to accept or decline as they saw fit.
of the proposed termination or modification sixty days prior to the
expiration date thereof, or in the event such contract contains no
expiration date, sixty days prior to the time it is proposed to make
such termination or modification;
"(2) offers to meet and confer with the other party for the
purpose of negotiating a new contract or a contract containing the
proposed modifications;
"(3) notifies the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service within
thirty days after such notice of the existence of a dispute, and
simultaneously therewith notifies any State or Territorial agency
established to mediate and conciliate disputes within the State or
Territory where the dispute occurred, provided no agreement has
been reached by that time; and
"(4) continues in full force and effect, without resorting to strike
or lock-out, all the terms and conditions of the existing contract for
a period of sixty days after such notice is given or until the expiration date of such contract, whichever occurs later:
"The duties imposed upon employers, employees, and labor organizations by paragraphs (2)-(4) of this subsection shall become inapplicable upon an intervening certification of the Board, under which
the labor organization or individual, which is a party to the contract,
has been superseded as or ceased to be the representative of the
employees subject to the provisions of section 159 (a) of this title,
and the duties so imposed shall not be construed as requiring either
party to discuss or agree to any modification of the terms and conditions contained in a contract for a fixed period, if such modification is to become effective before such terms and conditions can be
reopened under the provisions of the contract. Any employee who
engages in a strike within the sixty-day period specified in this subsection shall lose his status as an employee of the employer engaged
in the particular labor dispute, for the purposes of sections 158 to
160 of this title, but such loss of status for such employee shall
terminate if and when he is reemployed by such employer." 29
U. S. C. § 158 (d).

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

185

Opinion of the Court

rejected that conclusion on the ground that
several possible ways of adjusting the negoto the Medicare provisions and the Company
the contract by unilaterally choosing one of
them. The Company now urges, in effect, that we adopt
the views of the trial examiner. We need not resolve,
however, whether there was a "modification" within the
meaning of § 8 (d), because we hold that even if there
was, a "modification" is a prohibited unfair labor practice
only when it changes a term that is a mandatory rather
than a permissive subject of bargaining.
Paragraph (4) of § 8 (d), of course, requires that a
party proposing a modification continue "in full force and
The Board
there were
tiated plan
"modified"

effect , . . all the terms and conditions of the existing

contract" until its expiration. Viewed in isolation from
the rest of the provision, that language would preclude
any distinction between contract obligations that are
"terms and conditions of employment" and those that
are not. Butin construing § 8 (d), "'we must not be
guided by a single sentence or member of a sentence, but
look to the provisions of the whole law, and to its
object and policy.'" Mastro Plastics Corp. v. NLRB,
350 U. S. 270, 285 (1956) (quoting United States v.
Boisdorg's Heirs, 8 How. 113, 122). See also NLRB
v. Lion Oil Co., 352 U. S. 282, 288 (1957).
Seen
in that light, § 8 (d) embraces only mandatory topics
of bargaining. The provision begins by defining "to bargain collectively" as meeting and conferring "with respect to wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of
employment." It then goes on to state that "the duty
to bargain collectively shall also mean" that mid-term
unilateral modifications and terminations are prohibited.
Although this part of the section is. introduced by a
"proviso" clause, see n. 21, supra, it quite plainly is to
be construed in pari materia with the preceding definition.
Accordingly, just as § 8 (d) defines the obligation to bar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

gain to be with respect to mandatory terms alone, so it
prescribes the duty to maintain only mandatory terms
without unilateral modification for the duration of the
collective-bargaining agreement.22
The relevant purpose of § 8 (d) that emerges from

the legislative history of the Act together with the text
of the provision confirms this understanding. The section stems from the 1947 revision of the Act, an important
theme of which was to stabilize collective-bargaining
agreements. The Senate bill, in particular, contained
provisions in §§ 8 (d) and 301 (a) to prohibit unilateral
mid-term modifications and terminations and to confer
federal jurisdiction over suits for contract violations.
See S. 1126, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., §§ 8 (d), 301 (a).
The bill also included provisions to make it an unfair
labor practice for an employer or labor organization "to

violate the terms of a collective-bargaining agreement."
Id., §§ 8 (a) (6), 8 (b) (5). In conference the Senate's
proposed §§ 8 (d) and 301 (a) were adopted with relatively few changes. See H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 510,
supra, at 34-35, 65-66. The provisions to make contract violations an unfair labor practice, on the other
-hand, were rejected with the explanation that "[o]nce
parties have made a collective bargaining contract the
In coming to a contrary conclusion, the trial examiner mistakenly relied on Brotherhood of Painters, Local Union No. 1385,
143 N. L. R. B. 678 (1963), where the Board held that a union
'violated § 8 (d) by refusing to execute a written contract containing
a permissive term to which it had previously agreed. "The parties
did discuss the provision," the Board reasoned, "and for us to hold
that the Employers in this case may not insist on the inclusion
of this provision in their contract would upset, if not undo, the
stabilizing effects of the agreement which was reached after several
negotiation meetings." Id., at 680. The union was required to sign
the contract at the employers' request, not because § 8 (d) reaches
permissive terms, but because the un an's refusal obstructed execu-'
tion of an agreement on mandatory terms.. Cf. NLRB v. Katz,
supra, n. 2.
22

CHEMICAL WORKERS v. PITTSBURGH GLASS
157

187

Opinion of the Court

enforcement of that contract should be left to the usual
processes of the law and not to the National Labor Relations Board." Id., at 42. The purpose of the proscription of unilateral mid-term modifications and terminations in § 8 (d) cannot be, therefore, simply to assure
adherence to contract terms. As far as unfair-laborpractice remedies are concerned, that goal was to be
achieved through other unfair-labor-practice provisions
that were rejected in favor of customary judicial procedures. See Dowd Box Co. v. Courtney, 368 U. S. 502,
510-513 (1962).
The structure and language of § 8 (d) point to a niore
specialized purpose than merely promoting general contract compliance. The conditions for a modification or
termination set out in paragraphs (1) through (4) plainly
are designed to regulate modifications and terminations
so as to facilitate agreement in place of economic warfare. Thus, the party desiring to make a modification
or termination is required to serve a written notice on
the other party, offer to meet and confer, notify mediation and conciliation agencies if necessary; and meanwhile maintain contract relations. Accordingly, we think
we accurately described the relevant aim of § 8 (d) when
we said in Mastro Plastics Corp. v. NLRB, supra, at
284, that the provision "seeks to bring about the termination and modification of collective-bargaining agreements without interrupting the flow of commerce or the
production of goods . ...

If that is correct, the distinction that we draw between mandatory and permissive terms of bargaining fits
the statutory purpose. By once bargaining and agreeing
on a permissive subject, the parties, naturally, do not
make the subject a mandatory topic of future bargaining.
When a proposed modification is to a permissive term,
therefore, the purpose of facilitating accord on the proposal is not at all in point, since the parties are not

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

required under the statute to bargain with respect to
it. The irrelevance of the purpose is demonstrated by
the irrelevance of the procedures themselves of § 8 (d).
Paragraph (2), for example, requires an offer "to meet
and confer with the other party for the purpose of
negotiating a new contract or a contract containing
the proposed modificatioris." But such an offer is meaningless if a party is statutorily free to refuse to negotiate
on the proposed change to the permissive term. The
notification to mediation and conciliation services referred
to in paragraph (3) would be equally meaningless, if
required at all. "3 We think it would be no less beside
the point to read paragraph (4) of § 8 (d) as requiring
continued adherence to permissive as well as mandatory
terms. The remedy for a unilateral mid-term modification to a permissive term lies in an action for breach of
contract, see n. 20, supra, not in an unfair-labor-practice
proceeding.4
As a unilateral mid-term modification of a permissive
term such as retirees' benefits does not, therefore, violate
§ 8 (d), the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS

dissents.

The' notification required by paragraph (3) is "of the existence
of a dispute." Section 2 (9) of the Act defines "labor dispute" to
include "any controversy concerning terms, tenure or conditions of
employment, or concerning the association or representation of
persons in negotiating, fixing, maintaining, changing, or seeking to
23

arrange terms or conditions of employment .

. . ."

49 Stat. 450,

as amended, 29 U. S. C. § 152 (9). Since controversies over permissive terms are excluded from the definition, a paragraph (3) notice
might not be required in the case of a proposed modification to such
a term even if § 8 (d) applied.
24 It does not appear whether the collective-bargaining agreement
involved in this cause provided for arbitration that would have been
applicable to this dispute. We express no opinion, therefore, on the
relevance of such a provision to the question before us.

