WILWORDING v. SWENSON
Per Curiam

WILWORDING ET AL. V. SWENSON, WARDEN
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT

No. 70-5308.

Decided December 14, 1971

Petitioners' complaints relating to the condition of their confinement
were held by the Missouri courts not to be cognizable by means
of a petition for habeas corpus. The Court of Appeals affirmed
the District Court's subsequent dismissal of the habeas petitions
on the ground that 28 U. S. C. § 2254 had not been satisfied because other types of state remedies might be available. Held:
1. Section 2254 does not require petitioners to pursue alternative
courses suggested by the Court of Appeals since their availability
was conjectural and, regardless of the remedy invoked, the state
courts have not granted a hearing to state prisoners on the conditions of their confinement.
2. Petitioners were entitled to have their actions treated as
claims for relief under the Civil Rights Acts, to which exhaustion
requirements do not apply.
Certiorari granted; 439 F. 2d 1331, reversed and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

On the ground that they challenged only their living
conditions and disciplinary measures while confined in
maximum security at Missouri State Penitentiary, and
did not seek their release, petitioners' state habeas corpus
petitions were dismissed. The Missouri Supreme Court
affirmed. Petitioners then sought federal habeas corpus
in the District Court for the Western District of Missouri. The District Court dismissed the petitions and
the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed,
439 F. 2d 1331. Although petitioners had exhausted
state habeas relief the Court of Appeals agreed with
the District Court that the requirements of 28 U. S. C.
§ 2254 had not been satisfied because petitioners had
not invoked any of a number of possible alternatives to
state habeas including "a suit for injunction, a writ

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Per Curiam

404 U. S.

of prohibition, or mandamus or a declaratory judgment
in the state courts," or perhaps other relief under the
State Administrative Procedure Act. Id., at 1336.

I
Section 2254 does not erect insuperable or successive
barriers to the invocation. of federal habeas corpus. The
exhaustion requirement is merely an accommodation of
our federal system designed to give the State an initial
"opportunity to pass upon and correct" alleged violations
of its prisoners' federal rights. Fay v. Noia, 372 U. S.
391, 438 (1963). Petitioners are not required to file
"repetitious applications" in the state courts. Brown v.
Allen, 344 U. S. 443, 449 n. 3 (1953). Nor does the
mere possibility of success in additional proceedings bar
federal relief. Roberts v. LaVallee, 389 U. S. 40, 42-43
(1967); Coleman v. Maxwell, 351 F. 2d 285, 286 (CA6
1965). Whether the State would have heard petitioners'
claims in any of the suggested alternative proceedings is a
matter of conjecture; certainly no available procedure was
indicated by the State Supreme Court in earlier cases.
See McMichaels v. Hancock, 428 F. 2d 1222, 1-223 (CA1
1970). Furthermore, we are not referred to a single
instance, regardless of the remedy invoked, in which the
Missouri courts have granted a hearing to state prisoners
on the conditions of their confinement. In these circumstances § 2254 did not require petitioners to pursue
the suggested alternatives as a prerequisite to taking
their claims to federal court. As Mr. Justice Rutledge
stated in his concurrence in Marino v. Ragen, 332 U. S.
561, 568 (1947):
"The exhaustion-of-state-remedies rule should not
be stretched to the absurdity of requiring the exhaustion of . . . separate remedies when at the outset
a petitioner cannot intelligently select the proper
way, and in conclusion he may find only that none
of the [alternatives] is appropriate or effective."

WILWORDING v. SWENSON
249

Per Curiam

II
Moreover, although cognizable in federal habeas corpus, see Johnson v. Avery, 393 U. S. 483 (1969), petitioners' pleading may also be read to plead causes of
action under the Civil Rights Acts, 42 U. S. C. § 1983,
and 28 U. S. C. §§ 1343 (3) and 1343 (4), for deprivation of constitutional rights by prison officials. As to
like actions, in an exhaustive opinion in Jackson v.
Bishop, 404 F. 2d 571 (CA8 1968), MR. JUSTICE (then
Judge) BLACKMUN stated:
"These actions were instituted in 1966 by handwritten petitions employing varying titles [including
'habeas corpus']. Each plaintiff asked for the appointment of counsel and permission to proceed in
forma pauperis. Those requests were granted. Appointed counsel then filed amended complaints which
have been treated by all concerned as petitions for
injunctive relief under the civil rights statutes, 42
U. S. C. § 1983 and 28 U. S. C. § 1343 (3) and (4).
We are satisfied as to jurisdiction. We are also
satisfied, as were the district judges, that the cases
are appropriately to be regarded as class actions
within the scope and reach of Rule 23, Fed. R. Civ.
P." Id., at 572-573.
Petitioners were therdfore entitled to have their actions
treated as claims for relief under the Civil Rights Acts,
not subject, on the basis of their allegations, to exhaustion
requirements. The remedy provided by these Acts "is
supplementary to the state remedy, and the latter need
not be first sought and refused before the federal one is invoked." Monroe v. Pape, 365 U. S. 167, 183 (1961);
McNeese v. Board of Education, 373 U. S. 668 (1963);
Damico v. California,389 U. S. 416 (1967). State prisoners are not held to any stricter standard of exhaustion
than other civil rights plaintiffs. Houghton v. Shafer,
392 U. S. 639 (1968). There an inmate's challenge to

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
BURGER, C. J., dissenting

404 U. S.

the confiscation of his legal materials without first seeking administrative redress was sustained. Although the
probable futility of such administrative appeals was
noted, we held that in "any event, resort to these remedies is unnecessary."
Id., at 640. Accordingly, the
motions to proceed in forma pauperis and the petition
for certiorari are granted; the judgment of the Court of
Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.*
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN concurs in the judgment of
the Court and in Part II of the Court's per curiam
opinion.

dissenting.
This case is singularly inappropriate for summary reversal without an adequate record, and without briefs
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER,

*It appears that petitioners did seek relief under the civil rights
statutes before filing their petitions below, and that these claims
were denied after a hearing. The dissent asserts that the petition
for certiorari concedes "that almost all of the claims involved in
those actions underlie the instant habeas corpus proceeding." (Emphasis supplied.) We are unable to find that concession in the
petition. At page 11 of the petition the following does appear: "Almost all of the complaints presented by [the earlier actions] had
been raised in the habeas corpus petitions originally filed in the State
(Emphasis supplied.) Indeed,
courts underlying this Petition."
petitioners' counsel in his reply brief disclaims knowledge of what
claims were presented in the cases, stating: "As this writer did not
participate as counsel in the Civil Rights Act cases and in view of the
generalized nature of the claims for relief in the petitions herein, it
is not known whether all of the issues intended to be presented by
those petitions were presented in the Civil Rights Act cases." Reply
Brief 7. Accordingly, we must conclude that it is not clear from the
record whether the issues raised in the earlier cases are the same
as those presented here. The effect, if any, of those actions upon
the.instant cases must therefore be determined on remand.

WILWORDING v. SWENSON
249

BURGER,

C. J., dissenting

or argument. The Court assumes without citation of
authority that further resort to state remedies would be
futile; the District Judge, far more familiar than we with
the local situation, thought otherwise. The Court does
not rest its reversal on this ground, however, for it
blandly treats petitioners' habeas corpus petitions as
complaints under 42 U. S. C. § 1983, an approach that
petitioners' experienced counsel has studiously and appropriately avoided. Petitioners had previously filed
complaints expressly under § 1983, which were denied
after full hearing. It is conceded in the petition for
certiorari that almost all of the claims involved in those
actions underlie the instant habeas corpus proceeding;
but petitioners' counsel argues that the doctrine of res
judicata has no application in habeas corpus. The Court
does not explain why this argument is not lost if the
habeas corpus petitions are treated as complaints under
§ 1983.
I had previously thought that summary reversal was
limited to cases where the error was manifest. Here,
however, the Court has challenged the conclusion of the
Court of Appeals largely on the basis of surmise and
has gone on to reverse on a theory that the Court of
Appeals was not asked to consider and presumably could
not have considered.

