IN RE LITTLE
Per Curiam

IN RE LITTLE
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPERIOR
COURT DIVISION, GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE, COUNTY
OF FORSYTH, NORTH CAROLINA

No. 71-244.

Decided January 24, 1972

Petitioner defended himself at his criminal trial when his motion for
continuance, by reason of another trial engagement of his retained
counsel, was denied. The court adjudged petitioner in contempt
for stating in summation after the close of evidence that the court
was biased and had prejudged his case, and that petitioner was a
political prisoner. Held: Petitioner's statements did not constitute criminal contempt, as they were not uttered in a boisterous
tone, did not actually disrupt the court proceeding, or constitute
an imminent threat

to the administration of justice.

Holt v.

Virginia, 381 U. S. 131.
Certiorari granted; reversed.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner was convicted of committing a direct contempt of a judge of the District Court Division of the
Forsyth County, North Carolina, General Court of Justice. He was sentenced to 30 days in jail as summary
punishment authorized by General Statutes of North
Carolina §§ 5-1 (1) and 5-6. He sought habeas corpus
in the Superior Court Division of the General Court.
That court denied relief after hearing oral argument
but without receiving evidence. Both the North Carolina Court of Appeals and the North Carolina Supreme
Court denied review by certiorari.
Neither the order of the District Court nor the judgment of the Superior Court details the events leading
to the conviction. The petition recites these events,
however, and the State's response does not challenge the
accuracy of the recital. Petitioner's trial on a charge
of carrying a concealed weapon was scheduled for March

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Per Curiam

404 U. S.

8, 1971, in the District Court at Winston-Salem. Petitioner appeared and filed a written motion for continuance by reason of another trial engagement of his
retained counsel in Charlotte. The trial judge denied
the motion and proceeded with the trial. Without benefit of counsel petitioner -attempted to defend himself.
In summation following the close of the evidence petitioner made statements that the court was biased and
had prejudged the case and that petitioner was a political
prisoner. The trial judge adjudged petitioner in contempt for these statements. The court's order recites
that "[t]he Court at this point informed the [petitioner]
that he was in contempt as the Court felt that these
remaxks were very disrespectful and tended to subvert
and prevent justice," and further recites that "[t]he
Court concludes on the foregoing facts that the conduct
of the [petitioner] and the words spoken by him in the
presence of the Court were contemptuous, that they reflected on the integrity of the Court and tended to
subvert and prevent justice."
The order also recites, "As the defendant was being
removed from the courtroom by deputy sheriff [following
the contempt adjudication], he spoke out and called the
undersigned presiding judge a M---- F......" This language in a courtroom is, of course, reprehensible and
cannot be tolerated. But this was not relied upon by
either the District Court or the Superior Court for the
conviction and sentence and the State defends the conviction in this Court without any reference to it. We
therefore also lay it aside for the purpose of our decision.
The Superior Court had the District Court order before
it but no other evidence. The Superior Court judgment tracks the statutory language in reciting that petitioner's statements "directly tended to interrupt its
proceedings and to impair the respect due the District
Court's authority," and, further, th' District Court's

IN RE LITTLE
553

Per Curiam

conclusion that the statements " 'reflected on the integrity
of the Court and tended to subvert and prevent justice' amounted to a finding by the District Court that
the words were wilful and intentionally used and that
the words used tended to interrupt the Court's proceedings and to impair the respect due its authority." *
We hold that in the context of this case petitioner's
statements in summation did not constitute criminal
contempt. The court's denial of the continuance forced
petitioner to argue his own cause. He was therefore
clearly entitled to as much latitude in conducting his
defense as we have held is enjoyed by counsel vigorously
espousing a client's cause. In re McConnell, 370 U. S.
230 (1962). There is no indication, and the State does
not argue, that petitioner's statements were uttered in
a boisterous tone or in any wise actually disrupted the
court proceeding. Therefore, "The vehemence of the
language used is not alone the measure of the power to
punish for contempt. The fires which it kindles must
constitute an imminent, not merely a likely, threat to
the administration of justice. The danger must not be
remote or even probable; it must immediately imperil ....
[T]he law of contempt is not made for the
protection of judges who may be sensitive to the winds
of public opinion. Judges are supposed to be men of
fortitude, able to thrive in a hardy climate." Craig v.
Harney, 331 U. S. 367, 376 (1947). "Trial courts . . .
must be on guard against confusing offenses to their
sensibilities with obstruction to the administration of
justice." Brown v. United States, 356 U. S. 148, 153
(1958).
*Section 5-1 (1) makes punishable for contempt "[d]isorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior committed during the sitting of
any court of justice, in immediate view and presence of the court,
and directly tending to interrupt its proceedings, or to impair the
respect due to its authority."

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
BURGER,

C. J., concurring

404 U. S.

The reversal of this conviction is necessarily required
under our holding in Holt v. Virginia, 381 U. S. 131
(1965). There attorneys filed motions that the trial
judge recuse himself and for a change of venue, alleging
that the judge was biased. The motion for change of
venue alleged that the judge intimidated and harassed
the attorneys' client. The court adjudged the attorneys
in contempt for filing these motions. We reversed for
reasons also applicable here:
"It is not charged that petitioners here disobeyed
any valid court order, talked loudly, acted boisterously, or attempted to prevent the judge or any
other officer of the court from carrying on his court
duties. Their convictions rest on nothing whatever
except allegations made in motions for change of
venue and disqualification of Judge Holladay because of alleged bias on his part." Id., at 136.
The petition for certiorari is granted and the judgment
is reversed.
It is so ordered.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER, with whom MR. JUSTICE
REHNQUIST joins, concurring.

I agree with the Court's disposition of the case but
something more needs to be said.
A contempt holding depends in a very special way on
the setting, and such elusive factors as the tone of voice,
the facial expressions, and the physical gestures of the
contemnor; these cannot be dealt with except on full
ventilation of the facts. Those present often have a
totally different impression of the events from what would
appear even in a faithful transcript of the record. Some
measure of the flavor of what really occurred in this
episode, and of the petitioner's attitude and demeanor,
how his spoken words impressed those present, may be

IN RE LITTLE

553

BURGER,

557

C. J., concurring

gleaned from the events and utterances described in the
Court's per curiam opinion.
The North Carolina court is, of course, free to promptly
summon this petitioner before it and, observing the strictures 6f Mayberry v. Pennsylvania,400 U. S. 455 (1971),
issue process requiring him to show cause why he should
not be held in contempt for the conduct and utterances
following the contempt adjudication.

