CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1971

HICKS, DISTRICT ATTORNEY OF ORANGE
COUNTY, ET AL. V. PLEASURE

HOUSE, INC.,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
CENTRAL DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

No. 70-127.

Decided October 12, 1971

This Court has no jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. § 1253 to entertain
a direct appeal from a temporary restraining order issued under
28 U. S. C. § 2284 (3) by single district judge after he had certified

a request for designation of three-judge court to hear suit for
permanent relief.
Appeal dismissed.
PER CURIAM.

The appellants seek review of a temporary restraining
order entered by a single district judge in a case certified for presentation to a statutory three-judge court.
The order, inter alia, stayed a pending prosecution of
the appellees under certain state obscenity laws and
temporarily restrained further enforcement of the laws
against the appellees. It was entered by the District
Judge shortly after he had certified a request for designation of a three-judge court to hear the appellees' suit
for permanent declaratory and injunctive relief. Under

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Per Curiam

404 U. S.

28 U. S. C. § 2284 (3), a single district judge has power
to enter such an order in a case to be heard by a threejudge court, but the order can be entered only "to preVent irreparable damage" and can "remain in force only
until the hearing and determination by the full court."
The appellants argue that the order in this case contravenes principles set forth last Term in Younger v.
Harris, 401 U. S. 37 (1971). They invoke this Court's
jurisdiction on direct appeal from "an interlocutory or
permanent injui ;on" in any action "required . . . to
be heard and determined by a district court of three
judges," under 28 U. S. C. § 1253. Since, however, § 1253
does not authorize a direct appeal to this Court from
a § 2284 (3) order by -a single district judge, we dismiss
this appeal for want of jurisdiction.
Long ago, this Court made clear that no direct appeal
lies under § 1253 to the Supreme Court from a temporary restraining order issued by a single judge, even
though the order may amount to an "interlocutory
injunction" and may have been issued in an action re.quired to be heard by a three-judge court. Stratton v.
St. Louis S. R. Co., 282 U. S. 10.1 See Ex parte
Metropolitan Water Co., 220 U. S. 539. This is so
because ! 1253 "plainly contemplates such a direct appeal only in the case of an order or decree entered by a
court composed of three judges in accordance with the
statutory requirement." Stratton v. St. Louis S. R.
Co., supra, at 16. See Mengelkbch v. Industrial Welfare Comm'n, 393 U. S. 83; Wilson v. City of Port
I In the instant case, the §ingle judge himself determined that the
action was one required to be heard by a three-judge court and then
entered his temporary restraining order; in Stratton, supra, on the
other hand, the single judge erroneously determined that a threejudge court was not required and then entered a similar order.
This distinction between the cases, however, makes no difference in
principle.

HICKS v. PLEASURE HOUSE, INC.

Per Curiam

Lavaca, 391 U. S. 352; Schackman v. Arnebergh, 387
U. S. 427; Buchanan v. Rhodes, 385 U. S. 3.
More recently, this Court has held that an appeal may
lie to a court of appeals from certain actions of a single
district judge in a case required to be heard by three
judges. Mengelkoch v. Industrial Welfare Comm'n,
supra; Wilson v. City of Port Lavaca, supra; Schackman
v. Arnebergh, supra; Idlewild Bon Voyage Liquor Corp.
v. Epstein, 370 U. S. 713. A court of appeals is not
"powerless . . . to give any guidance when a single judge
has erroneously invaded the province of a three-judge
court." Idleuild Bon Voyage Liquor Corp. v. Epstein,
supra, at 716. Thus, if a single judge oversteps his
limited authority under § 2284 (3), a court of appeals
may correct his error. In addition, a temporary restraining order issued pursuant to § 2284 (3) is reviewable
in a court of appeals to the extent that any such
order is reviewable under 28 U. S. C. §§ 1291 and
1292 (a). However, if no such appeal is taken before
the three-judge court is convened, application must be
made to that court for vacation or modification of the
temporary restraining order pending a final determination
on the merits.
The appeal is dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

2 The papers before the Court in this case do not make clear
whether or not the three-judge court has now been convened.

