OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN
CHAMBERS FROM JULY 27, 1971,
THROUGH JANUARY 31, 1972

MAHAN v. HOWELL
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-84. Decided July 27, 1971*
Stay of three-judge District Court judgment in Virginia reappor-

tionment case is denied, as

MR. JUSTICE BLACK

does not believe

that four Justices are likely to note probable jurisdiction, in view
of fact that District Court order revising many of the electoral
districts was substantially unanimous and delay incident to review
might further postpone important state elections.
See: 330 F. Supp. 1138.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, Acting Circuit Justice.
These cases, presented to THE CHIEF JUSTICE and
assigned to me for action in his absence, challenge the
judgment of a federal three-judge court holding unconstitutional in part an Act of the General Assembly of

the State of Virginia providing for reapportionment of
its State Senate and House of Delegates. The cases
were filed in different three-judge district courts and
were consolidated for trial in the District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia. In an opinion written by
Circuit Judge Bryan, the consolidated court held parts

of the legislative Act unconstitutional and invalid and
proceeded to write a reapportionment measure changing

the boundaries of approximately half of the House districts and staying the effectiveness of the Act insofar as
the court's opinion had altered it.
As written by the
*Together with No. A-83, City of Virginia Beach v. Howell et al.,
also on application for stay of same judgment.

1202

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

court the redistricting order decreases representational
disparity between the several House districts from 16.4%
to 7.2%. In its consideration of the General Assembly's
Senate districting formula, the court found it necessary
to effect only one change to make allowances for the
residences of naval personnel stationed in the NorfolkVirginia Beach area.
The motion here is for a stay of the District Court's
order pending appeal. In considering questions of this
kind an individual Member of the Court to whom the
matter is presented should give due consideration to the
fact that the four District Judges' order was substantially
unanimous1 and that the two judges who were subsequently requested to stay their order refused to do so.
A single Justice, of course, must also weigh the substantiality of the questions presented in light of this Court's
prior decisions, e. g., Whitcomb v. Chavis, 403 U. S.
124 (1971); Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U. S. 533 (1964);
Kirkpatrick v. Preisler, 394 U. S. 526 (1969); Wells v.
Rockefeller, 394 U. S. 542 (1969).
Moreover, it is
settled that unless a judge considering -the application believes it reasonably probable that four Members
of the Court will vote to hear such an appeal the requested stay should not be granted.2 Here, therefore,
the basic thing for me to consider is whether four Members of the Court are likely to vote in favor of granting
this appeal when the matter is given consideration.
On due consideration, I am unable to say that four
IJudge Lewis filed a separate concurring and dissenting opinion.
He fully agreed with all aspects of the ruling with the exception of
the court's refusal to create a 10-member multi-member district in
Fairfax County.
2 Board of School Comm.'rs v. Davis, 84 S. Ct. 10, 11 L. Ed. 2d 26
(1963); Organized Village of Kake v. Egan, 80 S. Ct. 33, 4 L. Ed.
2d 34 (1959); Edwards v. New York, 76 S. Ct. 1058, 1 L. Ed. 2d
17 (1956).

MAHAN v. HOWELL
1201

1203

Opinion in Chambers

Members would so vote. The case is difficult; the facts
are complicated; the four District Court Judges deciding
the case had no difficulty in reaching their conclusion on
the constitutional questions or in devising a plan to correct the deficiencies they found; the delay incident to
review might further postpone important elections to
be held in the State of Virginia should the stay be
granted. These and other considerations which need
not be stated lead me to believe that four Members of
the Court are not likely to grant an appeal and therefore I decline to enter an order which would in effect stay
the judgment of the consolidated three-judge court.

