CORPUS CHRISTI SCHOOL DISTRICT v. CISNEROS

1211

Opinion in Chambers

CORPUS CHRISTI SCHOOL DISTRICT
CISNEROS

ET AL. V.

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR REINSTATEMENT OF STAY

No. A-192.

Decided August 19, 1971

Stay of District Court's order to stop alleged school discrimination
practices, vacated by Court of Appeals, is reinstated to permit
action on the merits since case presents questions that should be
considered by the full Court.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

Circuit Justice.

The District Judge in this case ordered the Corpus
Christi Independent School District to stop alleged historical practices of discrimination against school children
on the basis of race or color. He directed how this was
to be accomplished, saying at the same time that he
would grant no stays of his order. The school district
asked the court to stay its order and a stay was granted
by a different district judge who had been assigned to
hear the application. The plaintiffs, parents of the students allegedly discriminated against, then asked the
United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit to
vacate the'stay. A panel of two Circuit Court judges
did vacate the stay. The school district then applied
to me as a single Justice to reinstate the stay issued by
the District Court for the Southern District of Texas.
The Solicitor General of the United States has joined
in requesting me as a, single Justice to reinstate that
stay. If I reinstate the stay, the District Court's order
will not go into effect until the Fifth Circuit or this
Court has had an opportunity to pass on it.
It is apparent that this case is in an undesirable state
of confusion and presents questions not heretofore passed
on by the full Court, but which should be. Under these
circumstances, which present a very anomalous, new, and

1212

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

confusing situation, I decline as a single Justice to upset
the District Court's stay and, therefore, I reinstate it
without expressing any view as to the wisdom or propriety
of the Solicitor General's position. The stay will be reinstated pending action on the merits in the Fifth Circuit
or action by the full Court.

