GUEY HEUNG LEE v. JOHNSON

Opinion in Chambers

GUEY HEUNG LEE ET AL. V. JOHNSON

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY PENDING APPEAL

No. A-203. Decided August 25, 1971
Application for stay of District Court's order reassigning pupils of
Chinese ancestry to other San Francisco public schools to correct
past patterns of de jure racial segregation is denied as school
desegregation plan offered by school board and approved by District Court seems well within established legal bounds.
See: 339 F. Supp. 1315.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants are Americans of Chinese ancestry, who
seek a stay of a Federal District Court's order reassigning pupils of Chinese ancestry to elementary public
schools in San Francisco. The order was made in a
school desegregation case, the San Francisco Unified
School District having submitted a comprehensive plan
for desegregation which the District Court approved.
There are many minorities in the elementary schools
of San Francisco; and while the opinion of the District
Court mentions mostly the blacks, there are in addition
to whites, Chinese, Japanese, Filipinos, and Americans
both of African and Spanish ancestry. The schools attended by the class here represented are filled predominantly with children of Chinese ancestry-in one 456
out of 482, in another 230 out of 289, and in a third,
1,074 out of 1,111.
Historn.cally, California statutorily provided for the
establishment of separate schools for children of Chinese
ancestry.* That was the classic case of de jure segrega*Until 1947, the California Education Code provided:
"ยง 8003. Schools for Indian children, and children of Chinese,
Japanese, or Mongolian parentage: Establishment. The governing
board of any school district may establish separate schools for

1216

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

tion involved in Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S.
483, relief ordered, 349 U. S. 294. Schools once segregated by state action must be desegregated by state
action, at least until the force of the earlier segregation
policy has been dissipated. "The objective today remains to eliminate from the public schools all vestiges
Swann v. Charlotteof state-imposed segregation."
Mecklenburg Board of Education, 402 U. S. 1, 15. The
District Court in the present case made findings that
plainly indicate the force of the old policy has persisted:
"[T]he school board . . . has drawn school attendance
lines, year after year, knowing that the lines maintain
or heighten racial imbalance . . . ." And- further, that
no evidence has been tendered to show that since
Brown I "the San Francisco school authorities had ever
changed any school attendance line for the purpose of
reducing or eliminating racial imbalance." Johnson v.
San Francisco Unified School District, 339 F. Supp. 1315,
1318-1319 (ND Cal. 1971).
Brown v. Board of Education was not written for
blacks alone. It rests on the Equal Protection Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment, one of the first beneficiaries of which were the Chinese people of San Francisco. See Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356. The
theme of our school desegregation cases extends to all
Indian children, excepting children of Indians who are wards of
the United States Government and children of all other Indians
who are descendants of the original American Indians of the United
States, and for children of Chinese, Japanese, or Mongolian
parentage.
"ยง 8004. Same: Admission of childreninto other schools. When
separate schools are established for Indian children or children of
Chinese, Japanese, or Mongolian parentage, the Indiah children or
children of Chinese, Japanese, or Mongolian parentage shall not be
admitted into any other school."
These provisions were eventually repealed. 1947 Cal. Stats., c.
737, ยง 1.

GUEY HEUNG LEE v. JOHNSON
1215

1217

Opinion in Chambers

racial minorities treated invidiously by a State or any
of its agencies.
It is not for me to approve or disapprove the plan;
that is a matter that goes to the merits and the appeal
has not been heard. The plan, however, has earmarks
of a thoughtful plan, at least measured by some of the
thoughtful concerns of the Chinese community. The
District Court ruled:
"Bi-lingual classes are not proscribed. They may
be provided in any manner which does not create,
maintain or foster segregation.
"There is no prohibition of courses teaching the
cultural background and heritages of various racial
and ethnic groups. While such courses may have
particular appeal to members of the particular racial
or ethnic group whose background and heritage is
being studied, it would seem to be highly desirable
that this understanding be shared with those of
other racial and ethnic backgrounds." 339 F. Supp.,
at 1322.
And the District Court concluded:
"The Judgment and Decree now to be entered
is of less consequence than the spirit of community
rejponse. In the end, that response may well be
decisive in determining whether San Francisco is
to be divided into hostile racial camps, breeding
greater violence in the streets, or is to become a
more unified city demonstrating its historic capacity
for diversity without disunity.
"The school children of San Francisco can be
counted upon to lead the way to unity. In this
and in their capacity to accept change without anger,
they deserve no less than the whole-hearted support of all their elders." 339 F. Supp., at 1323.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

404 U. S.

The decree has been strenuously opposed. Upon application by applicants, the Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit entered a temporary stay pending a hearing in the District Court. Four days later, however, the
Court of Appeals vacated that stay sua sponte. The
District Court then denied the stay. Thereupon a different three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals heard oral
argument on the motions for a stay and denied those
motions.
I see no reason to take contrary action. So far as
the overriding questions of law are concerned the decision of the District Court seems well within bounds.
See Keyes v. Denver School District, 396 U. S. 1215
It would take some inter(BRENNAN, J., in chambers).
vening event or some novel question of law to induce
me as Circuit Justice to overrule the considered action of
my Brethren of the Ninth Circuit.
Application for stay denied.

