OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

GROPPI v. LESLIE, SHERIFF
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT

No. 70-112.

Argued November 10, 1971-Decided January 13, 1972

Wisconsin legislative resolution citing petitioner for contempt for
conduct on the floor of the State Assembly that occurred two
days previous to the contempt resolution and sentencing him to
confinement held violative of due process, since petitioner, who
was readily available, was given no notice before the resolution
was adopted or afforded any opportunity to respond by way of
defense or extenuation. Pp. 499-507.
436 F. 2d 326 and 331, reversed.
BURGER, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all
Members joined except POWELL and REHNQUIST, JJ., who took
no part in the consideration or decision of the case.

William M. Coffey argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Robert J. Lerner, John D.
Murray, and Steven H. Steinglass.
Sverre 0. Tinglum, Assistant Attorney General of
Wisconsin, argued the cause for respondent. With him
on the brief was Robert W. Warren, Attorney General.
Melvin L. Wulf, Sanford J. Rosen, and Robert H.
Friebert file, a brief for the American Civil Liberties
Union as amicus curiae urging reversal.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
We granted the writ of certiorari to review the holding of the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit,
denying petitioner relief in habeas corpus proceedings
after the District Court had granted relief.
On October 1, 1969, the Assembly of the Wisconsin
Legislature passed a resolution citing petitioner for contempt and directing his confinement in the Dane County

GROPPI v. LESLIE
496

Opinion of the Court

jail for a period of six months or for the duration of
the 1969 Regular Session of the legislature, whichever
was shorter. The resolution recited that petitioner had,
two days previously, led a gathering of people which, by
its presence on the floor of the Assembly during a regular meeting in violation of an Assembly Rule, "prevented
the Assembly from conducting public business and performing its constitutional duty." The resolution contained a finding that petitioner's actions constituted
"disorderly conduct in the immediate view of the house
and directly tending to interrupt its proceedings" which
the Assembly was authorized to punish under the State
Constitution and statutes.1
1 The

text of the October 1 resolution was as follows:
"1969 Spec. Sess. ASSEMBLY RESOLUTION
"Citing James E. Groppi for contempt of the Assembly and directing his commitment to the Dane county jail.
"In that James E. Groppi led a gathering of people on September
29, 1969, which by its presence on the floor of the Assembly during
a meeting of the 1969 regular session of the Wisconsin Legislature
in violation of Assembly Rule 10 prevented the Assembly from conducting public business and performing its constitutional duty; now,
therefore, be it
"Resolved by the Assembly, That the Assembly finds that the
above-cited action by James E. Groppi constituted "disorderly conduct in the immediate view of the house and directly tending to
interrupt its proceedings" and is an offense punishable as a contempt
under Section 13.26 (1) (b) of the Wisconsin Statutes and Article IV,
Section 8 of the Wisconsin Constitution and therefore:
"(1) Finds James E. Groppi guilty of contempt of the Assembly;
and
"(2) In accordance with Section 13.26 and 13.27 of the Wisconsin
Statutes, orders the imprisonment of James E. Groppi for a period
of 6 months, or for the duration of the 1969 regular session, whichever is briefer, in the Dane county jail and directs the sheriff of
Dane county to seize said person and deliver him to the jailer of the
Dane county jail; and, be it further
"Resolved, That the Assembly directs that a copy of this resolution
be transmitted to the, Dane county district attorney for further

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
'Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

The record before us contains little to flesh out the
recitations of the contempt resolution with the details of
petitioner's conduct on the day of September 29, 1969.
The Wisconsin Supreme Court, in its opinion denying petitioner's application for habeas corpus, took judicial notice that petitioner's conduct was designed to protest cuts
in the state budget for certain welfare programs, and
that the "occupation" of the Assembly chamber by petitioner and his supporters continued from midday to "well
toward midnight," during all of which time the Assembly
2
was prevented from conducting its lawful business.
The contempt resolution was adopted without giving
notice to petitioner or affording him an opportunity to
present a defense or information in mitigation. A copy
of the resolution was then served on petitioner who, at
the time the resolution was passed, was already confined
in the Dane County jail following his arrest on disorderly
conduct charges arising out of the same incident as that
action by hir under Section 13.27 (2) of the Wisconsin Statutes;
and, be it further
"Resolved, That the attorney general is respectfully requested to
represent the Assembly in any litigation arising herefrom."
Article IV, § 8, Wisconsin Constitution provides in part:
"Each house may determine the rules of its own proceedings, punish for contempt and disorderly behavior ... ."
Section 13.26, Wis. Stat. (19b7), provides in part:
"(1) Each house may punish as a contempt, by imprisonment, a
breach of its privileges or the privileges of its members . .. for ...
"(b) Disorderly conduct in the immediate view of the house and
directly tending to interrupt its proceedings.
"(2) The term of imprisonment a house may impose under this
section shall not extend beyond the same session of the legislature."
2 On oral argument, counsel for petitioner conceded these facts.
The paucity of the record may be attributed to the fact that the
District Court acted on the pleadings without an evidentiary hearing.

GROPPI v. LESLIE
496

Opinion of the Court

underlying the resolution.' Petitioner's confinement
after he was served with the resolution was pursuant to
its authority.
Petitioner then commenced actions in both state and
federal courts contending that his confinement violated
his constitutional rights, and seeking his release. Petitioner's applications for habeas corpus were denied by
the Circuit Court for Dane County and the Wisconsin
Supreme Court. However, after the state courts had
acted, the United States District Court for the Western
District of Wisconsin granted petitioner's federal habeas
application. The District Court was of the view that
petitioner had been denied due process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment by the failure of
the Assembly to accord him "some minimal opportunity
to appear and to respond to a charge" prior to the
imposition of punishment for contempt. On appeal, the
Court of Appeals reversed the holding of the District
Court; the holding of the panel was adopted by a narrowly divided court' on rehearing en banc. We granted
certiorari. For the reasons stated herein, we conclude
that petitioner was denied due process of law by the
procedures employed in punishing him for contempt,
and we reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
I
The past decisions of this Court expressly recognizing
the power of the Houses of the Congress to punish contemptuous conduct leave little question that the Constitution imposes no general barriers to the legislative
exercise of such power. E. g., Jurney v. MacCracken,
294 U. S. 125 (1935); Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat.
204 (1821). There is nothing in the Constitution
3 Tr. of Oral Arg. 4, 27. Petitioner was subsequently tried in
County Court on the disorderly conduct charge.. He was discharged
by the court after the jury was unable to reach a verdict.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

that would place greater restrictions on the States
than on the Federal Government in this regard. See
Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 1.68, 199 (1881). We
are therefore concerned only with the procedures that
the Due Process Clause of the Federal Constitution requires a state legislature to meet in imposing punishment
for contemptuous conduct committed in its presence.
This Court has often recognized that the requirements
of due process cannot be ascertained through mechanical application of a formula. See, e. g., Cafeteria
Workers v. McElroy, 367 U. S. 886, 894-895 (1961);
Hannah v. Larche, 363 U. S. 420 (1960). Mr. Justice
Frankfurter, in another context, aptly stated that due
process "is compounded of history, reason, the past course
of decisions, and stout confidence in the strength of the
democratic faith which we profess. . . ." Joint AntiFascist Committee v. McGrath, 341 U. S. 123, 162-163
(1951) (concurring opinion). Courts must be sensitive
to the nature of a legislative contempt proceeding and
the "possible burden on that proceeding" that a given
procedure might entail. Hannah v. Larche, 363 U. S.,
at 442. Legislatures are not constituted to conduct
full-scale trials or quasi-judicial proceedings and we
should not demand that they do so although they possess
inherent power to protect their own processes and existence by way of contempt proceedings. For this reason,
the Congress of the United States, for example, no longer
undertakes to exercise its contempt powers in all cases
but elects to delegate that function to federal courts.
52 Stat. 942, 2 U. S. C. §§ 192-194.
The potential for disrupting or immobilizing the vital
legislative processes of State and Federal Governments
that would flow from a rule requiring a full-blown legislative "trial" prior to the imposition of punishment for
contempt of the legislature is a factor entitled to very
great weight; this is particularly true where the con-

GROPPI v. LESLIE
496

Opinion of the Court

temptuous conduct, as here, is committed directly in the
presence of the legislative body. The past decisions of
this Court strongly indicate that the panoply of procedural rights that are accorded a defendant in a criminal
trial has never been thought necessary in legislative contempt proceedings. The customary practice in Congress
has been to provide the contemnor with an opportunity
to appear before the bar of the House, or before a committee, and give answer to the misconduct charged
against him. See Jurney v. MacCracken, 294 U. S., at
143-144; Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S., at 173, 174;
Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat., at 209-211; Marshall v.
Gordon, 243 U. S. 521, 532 (1917).-

Such would appear

to have been the general practice in colonial times, and
in the early state legislatures.'
This practice more
nearly resembles the traditional right of a criminal defe'hdant to allocution prior to the imposition of sentence
than it does a criminal prosecution. See Green v. United
States, 365 U. S. 301(1961).
See generally 2 A. Hinds, Precedents of the House of Representatives, cc. 51, 52; E. Eberling, Congressional Investigations: A Study
of the Origin and Development of the Power of Congress to Investigate and Punish for Contempt (1928).
Hinds discusses an assault by one reporter on another on.the
floor of the House on June 11, 1836. The House did not proceed
immediately to hold the party in contempt, but appointed a select
committee to investigate the matter. The contemnor appeared before the committee and admitted his offense. Before it acted on
the report of the 'committee by passing a contempt resolution, the
House brought the contemnor before the Bar of the House. Hinds,
supra, at § 1630. Hinds also discusses numerous instances of "direct"
contempts committed by members of the House in which the contemnor was afforded an opportunity to speak in his behalf. See
§§ 1642-1643, 1647, 1648, 1650-1653, 1657, 1665.
5 See M. Clarke, Parliamentary Privilege in the American Colonies
103-105, 109-111 and n. 47, 112-113 (1943); Potts, Power of Legislative Bodies to Punish for Contempt, 74 U. Pa. L. Rev. 691, 704705, 707, 711-712, 716, 718, 719-722, 724-725 (1926).
4

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

II

In this case, however, there is no occasion to define
or delineate precisely what-yrocess is due and must be
accorded to a contemnor prior to the legislative imposition of punishment for contemptuous conduct. Here,
the Wisconsin Assembly, 'two days after the conduct had
occurred, found petitioner in contempt and sentenced
him to confinement without giving him notice of any
kind or opportunity to answer. There is no question of
his having fled or become otherwise unavailable for, as
we have noted, he was confined in the county jail at the
time, and could easily have been given notice, if indeed
not compelled, to appear before the Assembly. We find
little in our past decisions that would shed light on the
precise problem, but nothing to give warrant to the
summary procedure employed here, coming as it did two
days after the contempt. Indeed, we have stated time
knd again that reasonable notice of a charge and an
Japportunity to be heard in defense before punishment is
imposed are "basic in our system of jurisprudence."
In re Oliver, 333 U. S. 257, 273 (1948). See, e. g., Joint
Anti-Fascist Committee v. McGrath, 341 U. S., at 143,
164-165, 171-172, 178, 185 (concurring opinions of Black,
Frankfurter, DOUGLAS, and Jackson, JJ.); Cole v. Arkansas, 333 U. S.196, 201 (1948). We have emphasized
this fundamental principle where rights of less standing than personal liberty were at stake. E. g., Sniadach
v. Family Finance Corp., 395 U. S.337 (1969);,Morgan
v. United States, 304 U. S. 1, 18 (1938); Grannis v.
Ordean, 234 U. S. 385, 394 (1914). In Mullane v.
Central Hanover Trust Co., 339 U. S.306 (1950), the
Court stated:
"Many controversies have raged about the cryptic
and abstract words of the Due Process Clause but
there can be no doubt that at a minimum they

GROPPI v. LESLIE
Opinion of the Court

496

require that deprivation of life, liberty or property
by adjudication be preceded by notice and opportunity for hearing appropriate to the nature of the
case." 339 U. S., at 313.
Although this language was addressed to judicial adjudication, historical practice would indicate that legislatures themselves have recognized the value of prior
notice and hearing in cases of legislative contempt.
In exercise of the right 'to be heard, however brieflythe length and nature of which would traditionally be
left largely to the legislatile body-the putative contemnor might establish, for example, that it was a case
of mistaken identity, or, also by way of affirmative defense, that he was mentally incompetent.' Other matters in explanation or mitigation might lessen the
harshness of the legislative judgment or avoid punishment altogether.
III

Wisconsin, however, argues that the power of a legislature to summarily punish for contempts committed
in its immediate presence follows logically from the recognized power of courts in that respect. E. g., Ex parte
Terry, 128 U. S. 289 (1888). Even if it be assumed that
courts and legislatures are fully analogous in this respect,
the recorded cases dealing with the power of a court
to impose summary punishment for contempt committed
in its immediate presence show that such power has
not ordinarily been exercised under conditions such as
those here, with a lapse of two days following the event
and without notice or opportunity for hearing of any
kind. A legislature, like a court, must, of necessity,
possess the power to act "immediately" and "instantly"
6

In the latter case, a legislative body, like a court, might direct a

psychiatric examination. It can be assumed that one so disoriented
as not to appreciate the nature of his acts would not be punished for
contemptuous conduct.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

to quell disorders in the chamber if it is to be able to
maintain its authority and continue with the proper
dispatch of its business. In re Oliver, 333 U. S., at
274-275; Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S., at 308, 310; Johnson v. Mississippi, 403 U. S. 212, 214 (1971); Mayberry
v. Pennsylvania, 400 U. S. 455, 463 (1971). Where,
however, the contemptuous episode has occurred two
days previously, it is much more difficult to argue that
action Without notice or hearing of any kind is necessary to preserve order and enable a legislative body
to proceed with its business.
The function of the contempt process by a legislative
body is perhaps more related to deterrence of those disposed to create disorders than to restoring order. But
the deterrence function can equally be served-perhaps
even better-by giving notice and bringing the contemnor before the body and giving opportunity to be
heard before being declared in contempt and sentenced.!
Where a court acts immediately to punish for contemptuous conduct committed under its eye, the contemnor is present, of course. There is then no question
of identity, nor is hearing in a formal sense necessary
because the judge has personally seen the offense and is
acting on the basis of his own observations.' Moreover,
in such a situation, the contemnor has normally been
given an opportunity to speak in his own behalf in the
nature of a right of allocution. See Levine v. United
7 Under circumstances such as those in this case, neither a court
nor a legislative body has any obligation to afford a contemnor a
forum to expound his political, economic, or social views; but this
does not mean that some brief period to present matter specifically
in defense, extenuation, or mitigation is not required.
8 The Court has been careful to limit strictly the exercise of the
summary contempt power to cases in which it was clear that all of
the elements of misconduct Were personally observed by the judge.
See Johnson v. Mississippi, 403 U. S. 212, 214-215 (1971); In re
Oliver, 333 U. S. 257, 275-276 (1948).

GROPPI v. LESLIE.
496

Opinion of the Court

States, 362 U. S. 610, 613-614 (1960); Brown v. United
States, 359 U. S. 41, 52 (1959); United States v. Sacher,
182 F. 2d 416, 418 (CA2 1950), aff'd, 343 U. S. 1 (1952).
Even in those circumstances, as we have noted, the conduct and utterance might be found excusable by a legislature or a court should it develop that the contemnor
was suffering from some mental disorder rendering him
unable to conform his conduct to requirements of the law
and conventional behavior. Where, however, a legislative body acts two days after the event, in the absence of
the contemnor, and without notice to him, there is no
assurance that the members of the legislature are acting,
as a judge does in a contempt case, on the basis of personal observation and identification of the contemnor
engaging in the conduct charged, nor is there any opportunity whatsoever for him to speak in defense or
mitigation, if he is in fact the offender.
Ex parte Terry, supra, does not control this case.
There the circuit court acted promptly after the contemnor-who was a lawyer-had voluntarily absented
himself from the courtroom and while he -was present in
an adjacent room of the court building. This Court concluded that the contemnor could not defeat the jurisdiction of the circuit court to act as soon as reasonably
possible to punish the contempt by his voluntary departure from the courtroom. 128 U. S., at 310-311.
The Court reasoned that
"The departure of the petitioner from the courtroom to another room, near by, in the same building, was his voluntary act. And his departure,
without making some apology for, or explanation
of, his conduct, might justly be held to aggravate his
offence, and to make it plain that, consistently
with the public interests, there should be no delay,
upon the part of the court, in exerting its power to
punish." Id., at 311.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

404 U. S.

Dealing only with the narrow circumstances present
in Terry, the Court expressly reserved the question
whether the circuit court would have had the power to
proceed on a subsequent day without according the contemnor an opportunity to be heard. Id., at 314. By
way of contrast, the resolution in this case was, as we
have noted, adopted -wo' days after the event and while
petitioner was being detained in the county jail in the
same city, and hence available to be served with notice.
In Sacher v. United States, 343 U. S. 1 (1952), the Court
approved the trial judge's action in waiting until the
end of a nine-month trial to summarily hold defense
counsel I in contempt for breaches committed during the
trial. However, the Court was careful to observe that an
immediate holding of contempt during the trial might
have prejudiced the defendants in the eyes of the jury
or otherwise impeded their advocacy. Moreover, the
contemnors were present throughout the course of the
trial, were repeatedly warned by the trial judge that
their conduct was contemptuous, were advised that they
Could be called to account later," and were given an
6pportunity to speak.'
At a very early stage in our history this Court stated
that the legislative contempt power should - be limited
to "[t]he least possible power adequate to the end proposed." Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat., at 231; In re
Oliver, 333 U. S., at 274. While a different result
o One of the tontemnors was a layn~an who had acted as his own
lawyer.
10 182 F. 2d, at 428.
11Id., at 418. Although he imposed sentence before hearing
the contemnors, the trial judge would, no doubt have modified his
action had their statements proved persuasive. See United States
v. Galante, 298 F. 2d 72, 76 (CA2 1962) (Friendly, J., concurring
and dissenting). Modification of contempt penalties is common where
the contemnor apologizes or presents matter in mitigatiori.

GROPPI v. LESLIE
Opinion of the Court

might well follow had the Wisconsin Assembly acted
immediately upon occurrence of the contemptuous
conduct and while the contemnor was in the
chamber, 12 or nearby within the Capitol building, as
in Terry, we conclude that the procedures employed in
this case were beyond the legitimate scope of that power
because of the absence of notice or any opportunity to
respond. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE POWELL

and

MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST

took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

12

The present practice of Parliament is described in E. May, The

Law, Privileges, Proceedings and Usage of Parliament (17th ed. 1964)
as follows:
"When the contempt is committed in the actual view of either
House, as, for example, where a witness prevaricates, gives false
evidence or refuses to answer, the House proceeds at once, without
hearing the offender, unless by way of apology or to manifest his
contrition, to punish him for his contempt." Id., at 133 (emphasis
added).

