OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

CLARKv. HERINGTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 223. Submitted April 14,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

While the two statutes making the Union Pacific Railroad grants did not
double the price of the even numbered sections within the place limits,
yet that was done by the act of March 6, 1868, c. 20, 15 Stat. 89, and the
even numbered sections within the place limits were from that time not
open to selection as indemnity lands.
The act of Congress provides in terms that the sections of land should be
subject to entry only under the homestead and pre6mption laws, and the
Land Department bad no power to turn one of those sections over to a
railroad company.
No title to indemnity lands is vested until an approved selection has been
made; up to which time Congress has full power to deal with lands in
the indemnity limits as it sees fit.
This is not an action to recover the possession of land, or to quiet title
thereto; but it is clearly a matter of ordinary judicial cognizance, not
excluded therefrom.
The contention that plaintiff in error is an innocent purchaser for value
was not set up as a defence in the state courts.

ON May 20, 1899, Monroe D. Herington, the defendant in
error, recovered a judgment in the District Court of Labette
County, Kansas, against Lee Clark, for the sum of $3032.28,
whicli judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of that
State on November 10, 1900. Thereupon the case was brought
here on writ of error.
The facts are these :. The action was one to recover damages
for breach of warranty in the conveyance of a part of section 22,
township 15, range 5, in Morris County, Kansas. The tract
was outside the place and within the indemnity limits of the
land grant made July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 289, c. 270, to the
Union Pacific Railroad Company, Southern Branch, a corporation whose name was subsequently changed to Missouri, Kansas.
'and Texas Railroad Company. The railroad company duly constructed its road, and, failing to obtain within the place limits
the full quota of lands granted to it, selected, on October 22,

CLARK v. HERINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

1877, the tract in controversy among others in lieu thereof.
At the time of such selection the tract was unimproved and
without actual occupation. The selection was approved by the
Commissioner of the' General Land Office, but no patent was
issued. On Septeinber-o, 1884, the railroad oompany conveyed
the land to Lee Clark. He conveyed by warranty deed. Herington is a subsequent grantee in the chain of title, and is also
the assignee from Clark's immediate grantee of all his rights
under Clark's deed, including the right to recover damages for
any T:each of the covenants therein contained.
Tle tract was in an even-numbered section and within the
place limits of the grant, made by acts of Congress of date
July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, c. 120, and July 2,1864, 13 Stat. 356,
c. 216, to the Union Pacific Railroad Company, Eastern Division.

On July 21, 1886, the selection by the Missouri, Kansas and
Texas Railroad Company was canceled by order of the Commissioner of the General Land Office. Notice of this order
was given to the railroad company, as also time to appeal therefrom, but no appeal was ever -taken. On July 28;-1888, E. M.
Cox, who had, on July 31, 1886, taken forcible possession of
the land, filed his declaratory statement, claiming settlement.
On July 26, 1889, he made final proof, paid the government
price and received his patent certificate.' Thereafter on Oc-tober 15, 1890, a patent was issued to him.

Mr. .Tames Hagerman, -Mr. T. N. iSedgwick and Xl.

T -M.

Bryson for plaintiff in error.
.Mr.
John
MRM.

.-fahan for defendant in error.

JUSTIcE BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.

The paramount Federal question is whether the Mffissouri,
Kansas and Texas Railroad Company was authorized to select
as indemnity lands in satisfaction of its grant any even-numbered
sections within the place limits of the prior grant to the Union

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Pacific Railroad Company. Upon this question United States
v. Xis8ouri &c. Railway, 141 U. S. 358, is cited. The railway
company, defendant in that case, is the successor in interest of
the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railroad Company. The act
making its rand grant is the one referred to in the foregoing
statement of facts, as made July 26, 1866. 14 Stat. 289, c. 270.
It claimed under the authority of that act the right to take as
indemnity lands even-numbered sections within the place limits
of what is known as the Leavenworth road, in whose benefit a
grant was made March 3, 1863. 12 Stat. 772. The court held
against this claim, saying (p. 370):
"Now, it is clear that the even-numbered sections, within the
place limits of the Leavenworth road, were reserved by the act
of 1863, for purposes distinctly declared by Congress, and which
might be wholly defeated if the Missouri-Kansas company were
permitted to take them as indemnity lands under the act of
1866. The requirement in the second section of the act of 1863,
that the 'reserved sections' which 'remained to the United
States I within ten miles on each side of the Leavenworth road,
' shall not-be sold for less than double the minimum price of the
public lands when sold,' nor be subject to sale at private entry
until they had been offered at public sale to the highest bidder,
at or above the increased minimum price; the privilege given
to actual bonaftde settlers, under the preemption and homestead
laws, to purchase those lands at the increased minimum price,
after due proof of settlement, improvement, cultivation and occupancy; and the right accorded to settlers on such sections
under the homestead laws, improving, occupying and cultivating
the same, to have patents for not exceeding eighty acres each,
are inconsistent with the theory that the even-numbered sec,tions, so remaining to the United States, within the place limits
of the Leavenworth road could be taken as indemnity lands for
a railroad corporation."
While the two statutes making the Union Pacific Railroad
grants did not double the price of the even-numbered sections
within the place limits, yet that was done by the act of March 6,
1868, 15 Stat. 39, c. 20, which in terms provided "that such sections shall be rated at two dollars and fifty cents per acre, and sub.

CLARK v. HERINGTON.
Opinion of the CoUrt.

ject only to entry under those (the prefmption and homestead)
laws." The eveii-numbered sections within the place limits of
the Union Pacific Railroad grants were from that time therefore
not open to selection as indemnity lands. It is true that this
statute was not passed until after the grant to the Missouri,
Kansas'and Texas Railroad Company, nor until after it had
filed its map of definite location with the. Secretary of the Interior, which appears from an agreed statement of the facts to
have been on January 7, 1868, but it was passed before the conpleted construction of the railroad and long before the selection
made by the company, and it is'familiar law that no title to
indemnity lands is vested until an approved selection has been
made, and that up to such time Congress has full power to deal
with lands in the indemnity limits as it sees fit. As said in
Kfan8a8 Pacc Railroadv. Atc ison Railroad, 112 U. S. 414,
421: "Until selection was made the title remained in the government, subject to its disposal at its pleasure." See, also, Ryan
v. Railroad Company, 99 U. S. 382; Grinnellv. RailroadComyany, 103 U. S. 739 ; Cedar Rapids &c. Railroadv. H7erring,
"110U. S. 27; St. PaulRailroad v. Winona Railroad,112 U. S.
720, 731; Barney v. Winona &a. Railroad,117 U. S. 228, 232;
Sioux City Railroadv. Chicago Railway, 117 U. S. 406, 408;
WT8consin Railroadv. Price County, 133 U. S. 496, 511; United
States v. Missouri d. Railway, 141 U. S. 358, 375 ; Tewitt v.
Schultz, 180- U. S. 139; Southern Pacifw Railroad Company v.
Bell, 183 U. S. 675.
It is contended by plaintiff in error that the selection by the
railroad company, when approved by the Land Department,
operated to convey the title as effectively as would a patent to
it therefor; that the even-numbered sections within the place
limits, although double minimum lands, were public lands and
within the jurisdiction of the Land Department, and that hence
the approval of the selection by the Land Department, even if
erroneous, operated to.vest the title in the company. But this
is a mistake. The act of Congress provided in terms that such
sections should be subject only to entry under the homestead
and preemption laws, and the Land Department had no more
power to turn one of those sections over to a railroad company
VOL. CLXXXVI-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

than it had to grant lands in a military or Indian reservation.
While the lands were within the jurisdiction of the Land Department for some purposes they were not for all. The mode
of their disposal was limited, and the Land Department had no
authority to ignore that limited mode and dispose of them in
any other way. This general doctrine as to the limitation ofthe powers of the Land Department has been affirmed by this
court in many cases and' unde different circumstances. Wilcox
v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 498; United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525.
It is further contended that it was not within the power of
the Land Department to cancejl the selection by the company,
after the conveyance of the land by the company, without notice to all the transferees, and in support thereof, Cornelius v.
Kessel, 128 U. S. 456; .ichigan Land & Lumber Co. v. Bust,
168 U. S. 589, and Hawley v. Diller, 178 U. S. 476, are cited.
It is undoubtedly true, as held in those cases and others, that
while the Land Department has full jurisdiction over the disposition of public lands-a jurisdiction which may be exercised
until the passing of the legal' title by the issue of a patent or
otherwise-yet such jurisdiction cannot be exercised so as to
'destroy any equitable rights without notice to the claimants
thereof. While that is true, the courts are not thereby debarred from an inquiry into and a determination of the validity
of any equitable title. They do not assume any direct appellate
jirisdiction over the rulings of the Land Department, and they
accept the findings of that department as conclusive upon questions of fact. Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Quinby v. Conlan, 104 'U. S. 420. But, notwithstanding this, prior to the issue of any patent a party may have rights in the land of one
kind or another which courts will enforce. Thus, where the
full equitable title to land has passed from the government to
an individual, the land'is subject to state taxation, although no
patent has issued. Carrollv. Safford, 3 How. 441; Witherspoon
v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210. Where, prior to the issue of a patent,
land in possession of an individual is sought to be charged with
state taxes, he may contest in the courts the liability of the
land therefor on the ground that full equitable title has not
passed to him, or that something yet remains to be done before

CLARK v. HERINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

the rights of the government are ended.

Railway Company

v. -Prescott,16 Wall. 603; Railway Company v. .MYcShane, 22
Wall. 444.
Again, even before the acquiring of even an equitable title
to the land as against the government, contracts made by actual settlers concerning their possessory rights and the title
hoped to be acquired from the United States, may be valid as
between the parties thereto, and enforced in the courts. Iamb
v. .Davenport, 18 Wall. 307; Stark v. Starr, 94 U. S. 477.
Again, it is a well-known fact that many agricultural lads
and many mining claims are held by their owners with only
final receipts from the government and without the issue of
any patent. Yet the rights which accompany title are exercised by the parties and enforced by the courts.
It will be noticed that this is not an action to recover the
possession of any land, or one to quiet the title thereto. It is
simply an action to recover damages for the breach of a contract in respect to the land, and the decision, in no respect controlling the action of the officers of the Land Department, is simply a determination of the rights which the parties have acquired
by proceeding in the Land Department. This is clearly a matter of ordinary judicial cognizance, and one which by no statute
of Congress or rule of the common law is excluded from such
cognizance. Garland.v. WTyn, 20 How. 6; .Monroe Cattle Company v. Becker, 147 U. S. 47, 57; Turnerv. Sawyer, 150 U. S.
578.
A final contention in this matter is that the plaintiff in error
is an innocent purchaser for value, and that, therefore, he and
his grantees are entitled to be protected in their title by virtue
of the act of M,arch 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556, c. 376, and March 2,
1896, 29 Stat. 42, c. 39. It is a sufficient answer to this contention that this defence was not set up in the state courts, and that
it does not appear anywhere in the record that Clark, to whom
the railroad company conveyed, or any subsequent grantee in the
chain of title, was a citizen of the United States or had declared
his inftention to become a citizen, and hence the act of 1887,
which purports to confirm alone the titles of citizens or those
who have declared their intention to become citizens, has no

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

application-; that the act of 1896 also has no application because that refers only to cases of lands patented or certified,
and the cohfirmations of lands acquired by deed or contract
from the party holding the patent or certificate, and here the
railroad company never received any patent or certificate. In
addition, prior to the passage of the act, a patent had been issued to Cox, and his title thus fully confirmed.
These considerations dispose of the only Federal question
presented in the record, and, there appearing no error, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas is
Aft 'med.
MR.

JUSTICE

GRAY took no part in the decision of this tase.

BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY COMPANY v. MOBILE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 126. Argued January 22, 23,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.
The plaintiff took its charter with notice that it was not given the exclusive
right of supplying the city of Mobile with water, and it had not, at the
time of the transactions referred to in the pleadings, obtained that which
its charter before amendment purported to authorize it to obtain, to wit,
an exclusive right to all the sources of supply in the county.
The legislature had the right of revocation and amendment.

ON February 21, 1899, the appellant, as complainant, filed its
bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Alabama to restrain the city of Mobile from building or operating prior to July 1, 1908, or before the city should
have purchased the waterworks of the complainant, any system
of waterworks connected with or having for its source of supply
any stream of water in Mobile County. Upon answer and
proofs the Circuit Court entered a decree dismissing the bill,
whereupon an appeal was taken directly to this court.

