OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

application-; that the act of 1896 also has no application because that refers only to cases of lands patented or certified,
and the cohfirmations of lands acquired by deed or contract
from the party holding the patent or certificate, and here the
railroad company never received any patent or certificate. In
addition, prior to the passage of the act, a patent had been issued to Cox, and his title thus fully confirmed.
These considerations dispose of the only Federal question
presented in the record, and, there appearing no error, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas is
Aft 'med.
MR.

JUSTICE

GRAY took no part in the decision of this tase.

BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY COMPANY v. MOBILE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 126. Argued January 22, 23,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.
The plaintiff took its charter with notice that it was not given the exclusive
right of supplying the city of Mobile with water, and it had not, at the
time of the transactions referred to in the pleadings, obtained that which
its charter before amendment purported to authorize it to obtain, to wit,
an exclusive right to all the sources of supply in the county.
The legislature had the right of revocation and amendment.

ON February 21, 1899, the appellant, as complainant, filed its
bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Alabama to restrain the city of Mobile from building or operating prior to July 1, 1908, or before the city should
have purchased the waterworks of the complainant, any system
of waterworks connected with or having for its source of supply
any stream of water in Mobile County. Upon answer and
proofs the Circuit Court entered a decree dismissing the bill,
whereupon an appeal was taken directly to this court.

-BIENVILLE WATER SUIPLY CO. v'. MOBILE.

213

Statement of the Case.

The facts are these: In 1840 the city of Mobile made a contract with Albert Stein, which was ratified by an act of the
legislature of the State, January 7, 1841. By this contract
Stein received the exclusive right to supply the city with water
from a stream called Three Mile Creek, and the city the right
to purchase his plant at a price to be fixed by arbitration. Stein
constructed his plant, and it was for many years the sole source
of supply. But it was not satisfactory, and hence the charter
to the appellant. This charter was granted by two statutes,
dated respectively February 19, 1883, and February 14, 1885.
By these statutes the company was given all the rights vested
by contract or law in the city to purchase the Stein franchise
and plant, and for that purpose was to be considered the assignee of the city; also generally the right to acquire by contract
with the owners any franchise and plant for supplying Mobile
with water, and in case of disagreement with the owners as
to price, the right to condemn and take the said franchise and
plant under the State's right of eminent domain. It was given
for twenty years, and until a purchase of its-plant by the city
the exclusive right to supply the city with water from any source
in the county of Mobile, other than Three Mile Creek, (the Stein
source of supply,) and when it should acquire the Stein franchise
the exclusive right from that creek also, subject to this proviso:
"But nothing in this act shall be construed to prohibit the organization hereafter of any company for the purpose of supplying the city of Mobile or any other. place with water which does
not interfere with the property rights or rights of obtalning
water 'pektaining to this company."
It was required to begin its *ork within four years and to
supply water-within six years. It was also required to supply
water at a cost to the consumers, not exceeding certain maximum rates fixed by the act, and to put fire plugs on any square
at the request of the owners of three fourths of the improved
property thereon. After twenty years the city was given the
right to purchase the plant of the company at a price to be
.fixed byarbitration
The owners of the 9tein franchisb endeavored by litigation
to prevent the erection of the appellant's plant, but a decree in

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

favor of the Bienville company was affirmed by this court.
141 U. S. 67.
Appellant constructed its plant and supplied the city of Mobile with" water under contracts, the last of which would not
have expired until July 1, 1900.
By an act of February 23, 1899, (Local Acts, Ala. 1898-99,
p. 1689,) its charter was amended by striking out the word
"exclusive," thus leaving a grant, but not an exclusive grant.
By an act of February 6, 1897, a new charter was granted
to the city of Mobile, and by its terms express authority was
given to the city to build or acquire public works, subject to
the approval of its citizens by a majority vote. On August 2,
1897, there was submitted to vote and approved by a majority
of citizens a proposition that the city should purchase, build or
otherwise acquire a system of waterworks to cost not exceeding $500,000 and a system of sewerage to cost not exceeding
$250,000, to be paid for by bonds secured by a mortgage upon
said public works.
By other statutes the city was given power to issue bonds secured by a mortgage on any plant which it should buy or construct ; also power to acquire or condemn any property and the
water of any stream in Mobile County excepting only Clear
Creek,'the source of appellant's supply of water; and; third, to
condemn all interest, legal or equitable, not owned by the city
in the Stein plant:
Nothing had been done by the appellant under the right
given it to purchase or, condemn the Stein franchise and property, although its treasurer had in its behalf purchased interests
in such franchise aid property amounting to 54 28-100 percent
of the full value thereof. On February 18, 1898, the city
council passed a resolution to purchase the Stein franchise and
property. An arbitration was held, -and on its report the city
took possession of the property and filed a' bill against the
treasurer of the appellant to compel him to carry out the arbitration and purchase. The Circuit Court, however, held the
arbitration illegal, and dismissed the bill.
On February 21, 1899, appellant brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States a suit in. equity against the city. In

BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY CO. v. MOBILE.

-215

Statement of the Case.

the bill was set forth the contracts of appellant ivith the city,
and it was contended that there was an implied agTeement by
the latter not to enter into competition. This suit was dismissed
by the Circuit Court, and its decree was affirmed by this court..
175 U. S. 109. The present bill, filed on the same date, is
based on the rights given to the appellant by its charter, and
it is contended that any legislation authorizing the city to violate such charter rights is in conflict with that clause in the
first paragraph of section 10 of article I of the Federal Constitution, which prohibits a State from passing any law impairing
the obligations of contracts. The constitution of Alabaima (1875), which was in force at
the time of the transactions herein referred to, contained these
several provisions:
"Article I, section 23: That no expostfacto law, or any law
impairing the obligation of contracts, or making any irrevocable
grants of special privileges or immunities, shall be passed by
the general assembly."
"Article XIV, section 1 : Corporations may'be formed under
general laws, but shall not be created by special act, except for
municipal, manufacturing, mining, immigration, industrial and
educational purposes, or for constructing canals, or improving
navigable rivers and harbors of this State, and in cases where,
in the judgment of the general assembly, the objects of the
corporation cannot be attained under general laws. All general laws and special acts passed pursuant to this section may
be altered, amended or repealed."
"Article XIV, section 2: All existing charters or grants of
special or exclusive privileges, under which a bona ftde organization shall not have taken place and business been commenced
in good faith, at the time of the ratification of this constitution,
shall thereafter have' no validity."
"Article XIV, section 10: The general assembly shalt-have
the power to alter, revoke or amend any charter of incorpdfhtion now existing and revocable at the ratification of this constitution, or any that may hereafter be created, whenever, in
their opinion, it may be injurious to the citizens of the State;
in such manner, however, that no injustice shall be done to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion. of the Court.

corporators. No law hereafter enacted shall create, renew or
extend the charter of more than one corporation."
.Xr. Frank P. Prichard,.Mr. D. P. Bestor and .Mr. John
G. Johnson for appellant.

-Mr. B. B. Boone for appellees.

XrA..

. L. 1?uell was on

his brief.

MR. JUSTICE, BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
There is such a similarity between the two suits commenced
by plaintiff on February 21, 1899, as suggests a question whether
the decision of the one should not be conclusive as to the disposition of the other. The parties were the same. In each the
plaintiff set forth its charter and its contracts with the city, and
each prayed a decree restraining the city from building or
operating any system of waterworks for supplying the city.
It is true the bill in the first case counted specially on the contracts made between the plaintiff and the city, and sought a
restraint of the city only during the life of those contracts,
-while the bill in this case sets up more at large the charter
rights of the plaintiff as given by the statutes of the State, contends that those rights are infringed by the subsequent legislation of the State and the action of the city thereunder, and
seeks to restrain the city during the twenty years named in the
plaintiff's charter and until the city shall buy the plaintiff's plant.
But each of these seeks to restrain the city from the time of
filing the bill. All the rights which the plaintiff had by virtue
of its charter and all the violations of such rights caused by the
legislation of the State and the action of the city existed at
the time of the filing of the bills and during the lifetime of the
contracts with the city, and could have been presented in the
first suit and been among the matters to be considered in determining whether the plaintiff was entitled to the injunction
sought. If the plaintiff was not entitled to an injunction during
the lifetime of the contracts with the city it is not entitled to
any similar relief after the expiration of those contracts. In
other words, the plaintiff failed to set up in the first suit all its

BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY CO. v. MOBILE.

217

Opinion of the Court.

grounds of relief. Can it be permitted in this to sel up additional grounds and obtain the very relief sought in the prior
suit as well as additional relief, the same in kind though longer
in duration? Will the law permit the splitting up into separate
suits of different grounds for the same relief? Will not the
judgment or decree in the first be held a final adjudication of
the rights of the parties? It appears that the decree in ihe
other suit was rendered in the circuit and affirmed in this court
about seven months before the decision of the present case in
the Circuit Court. As against this it may be said that the
decree in the other suit was neither pleaded nor proved, and no
question of re8 judicata can be considered unless the earlier
decision is formally presented on the hearing of the later case.
This, doubtless, is technically trfe, but we take judicial notice
of our own records, and, if not res judicata,we may, on the
principle of stare decisis, rightfully examine and consider the
decision in the former case as affecting the consideration of
this.
But, passing this matter, and leaving out of consideration the
special contracts directly between the plaintiff and the city, let
us inquire whether any contract rights given to plaintiff by its
charter have been violated by subsequent legislation of the
State, and the action of the city under such legislation. Plaintiff contends that under its charter, as created by the acts of
1883 and 1885, it acquired the exclusive right to supply the
city of Mobile with water from any stream in the county of
Mobile, except Three Mile Creek, and the right to purchase or
condemn the Stein franchise and plant *forsupplying the city
with water from Three Mile Creek ; that by the later legislation such exclusive right was in terms taken away, authority
given to the city of Mobile to build waterworks and supply the
city with water therefrom, and that the city had taken posses
sion of the Stein plant, was operating that and was building a
system of waterworks of its own, and that thereby its contract
right was impaired in violation of the prohibition of the Federal
Constitution.
It becomes therefore necessary to see not only the extent of
the rights conferred upon plaintiff, but also under what consti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

tutional conditions it received its grant, and what power was
reserved to the State to modify the terms thereof. In the first
place, the plaintiff did not receive the exclusive right to supply
Mobile with water. The proviso in the charter reserved to the
State the power to charter other companies for such purpose.
Obviously the legislature contemplated the fact that in the
future other sources of supply and other companies might be
necessary in order to furnish an adequate supply for the growing city, and reserved to itself the right to make such provision
as it should deem expedient therefor. It is true the companies
which might be chartered were not to "interfere with the
property rights or the rights of obtaining water pertaining" to
the plaintiff.: But manifestly "property rights" refer to rights
in respect to tangible property, and thus construed the proviso
forbade any interference by any new, company with the plant
of the plaintiff. In addition, it also forbade interference with
the "rights of obtaining water pertaining" to the plaintiff.
The plaintiff had not at the time of these transactions obtained
the Stein franchise for obtaining water from Three Mile Creek,
and could only claim an exclusive right of obtaining water from
other sources of supply within the county of Mobile.
The plaintiff, therefore, took its charter with notice that it
was not given the exclusive right of supplying the city of Mobile
with water, and it had not, at the time of these transactions,
obtained that which its charter before amendment purported
to authorize it to obtain, to wit, an exclusive right to all the
sources of supply within the county. In reference to this the
Supreme Court of Alabama, in an opinion filed on June 11, 1901,
City of .kfobile v. .Bienville Water Supply Co., 30 Sou. Rep.
445, 446, and since the decree in the Circuit Court, used this
language:
"It cannot be pretended that, in granting a charter to the
complainant company in 1883, the legislature conferred on that
company any exclusive privilege for supplying the city of Mobile
and its inhabitants with water. All rights not exclusively
granted to the complainant were reserved, and the rights thus
reserved included the granting of a franchise to another corporation to carry on the same business in the same territory.

BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY CO. v. MOBILE.
Opinion of the Court.

While the effect of granting such a franchise, afterwards, to the
city, might be to impair and possibly by fair 6ompetition to
ultimately largely destroy the value of complainant's plant, it
would not.be in excess of legislative power to grant the franchise to the city, nor would it in anywise infringe the Federal
Constitution, prohibiting a state legislature from passing laws
impairing its obligations. If there is no contract, there is nothing in the grant on which the Constitution could act. The element' of a contract by the State With the complainant company
did not enter into the grant of its franchise to establish and
operate a system of waterworks in Y,obile. Stone v..Xissis8ippi, 101 U. S. 814; Skaneateles Waterworks Co. v. Village of
Skaneateles,,161 N. Y. 154; Charles River Bridge v. Warren
Bridge, 11 Pet. 420 ; State v. City of Hdmilto, 47 Ohio St. 52;
Seranton Electric Light & Heat Co.'s Appeal, 122 Pa. 154 ;-2
Beach, Priv. Corp. sees. 22, 27."
By article I, section 23, of the constitution of Alabama the
legislature is prohibited from "making any irrevocable grants
of special privileges or immunities."
The significance of this provision was considered by the Supreme Court of Alabama in Birmingham & PrattMines Street
Railway Company v. Birmingham Street Railway Company,
79 Ala. 465, in which case it appeared that the city of Birmingham had given what was in terms an exclusive right to the
plaintiff to construct a street railway along certain streets, and
afterwards had given to the defendant the right to occupy the
same streets with a railway. Considering the first grant by the
city, the Supreme Court said: "If the power to grant such a
franchise resided in this municipality

.

.

.,there

can be no

doubt either of the jurisdiction or of' the duity of a court of
equity to protect the invasion of the right.

.

.

If, how-

ever, the power in question did not exist, then the grant would
be void, so far as it purports to be exclusive in its nature;"
and it was held that the city authorities had no-power to grant
the exclusive right claimed by the plaintiff. In the discussion
of the question the court further used this language"
"What, it may be asked, is the nature of these special or exclusive privileges, which are thus prohibited to be granted by

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the legislature? It seems plain from the very terms used that
the evil intended to ' be especially prevented was the granting
of exclusive privileges in the nature of a monopoly by the leg-,
islative creation of corporate franchises. Monopolies were void
at the common law and are not commonly conferred by legislative grant, and need no special prohibition in the organic law
of a free republic.'
"The policy of the law, as now declared by our Constitution,
is as clear in the condemnation of the grant of irrevocable exclusive privileges conferred by franchise, as that of the common
law was in the reprobation of pure monopolies which were always deemed odious, not only as being in contravention of common right, but as founded in the destruction of trade by the
extinguishment of a free and healthy competition. The . Cae
of The .Xaonopolies, 11 Rep. 81.
"The exclusive right of the appellee to the privilege claimed,
in our opinion, cannot be sustained. The general assembly
would itself have no power under the constitution to make such
a grant."
It is true that this case was not decided until the December
term, 1885, which was after the passage of the last of the two
statutes granting the charter to theappellant, and it is also true
that in considering questions of an alleged state infringement of a
contract we are not concluded by the exposition by the courts of
the State of the terms of the contract or the effect of the legislation. At the same time, the opinion of the highest court
of the State, even in contract cases, is entitled to most respectful consideration, and should not lightly be ignored.
It is contended by the appellant that section 23 of article I
must be considered as qualified by section 10 of article XIV,
the section which gives the general assembly power to alter,
amend or revoke a charter "whenever, in their opinion, it may
be injurious to the citizens of the State; in such manner, however, that no injustice shall be done to the corporators." It is
said that while under this provision the judgment of the general assembly upon the question whether the charter is injurious
to the citizens of the State may not be subject to judicial exam-

BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY CO. v. MOBILE.

221

Opinion of the Court.

ination, yet whether injustice has been done to the corporators
is in the very nature of things a judicial question, and one which
no action 6f the legislature can preclude the courts from considering. . As a corollary from this it is argued that if in the
opinion of the courts the attempted revocation works injustice
to the corporators it will be adjudged an invalid exercise of legisiative power. This section is a new one in this court. It is
found in the constitutions of more than one State and has been
reviewed in some state courts. So far as they have expressed
themselves the expressions have been in favor of the right of a
judicial review. Wagner hnstitute v. Philadelphia,132 Penn.
St. 612, is cited by the appellee, but that case simply holds that
whether the charter is injurious to the citizens is a question of
legislative determination. Further than that the opinion does
not go. Leep v. Railway Gompany, 58 Ark. 407, is also cited.
In that case a statute which in effect amended railroad charters
was sustained. In the opinion the propriety of the amendment
was discussed, a limitation to its scope declared, and in reference to a possible construction thereof the court observed
(p. 436):
"An amendment to that extent would be, manifestly, unjust
to the companies, and violative of the constitution, which, while
it grants the right to amend when in the opinion of the legislature the charter is injurious to the citizens, limits the right to
do so to amendments that are just to the corporators."
Subsequently, in St. Zouis, Iron Mountain & Southern Railway Company v. Paul, 64 Ark. 83, another section of the
same statute was presented and sustained, Leep v. Railway
Company being cited with approval. This case was brought to
this court on error and affirmed. 173 U. S. 404. In .Macon
c. Railroad Company v. Gibson, 85 Ga. 1, the application of a
provision was considered, and upon it the
similar constitutional
(p. 16):
court observed
"No constitutional principles are infringed by exercising a.
reserved power to revoke special privileges or immunities, unless the provision of our own constitution is violated, which forbids doing it in such manner as to work injustice to the corporators or creditors of the corporation. Whether the mode adopted

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

by the legislature in a given instance is just in this respect or
not, whilst primarily a legislative question, may, if palpably
decided wrong, become a judicial question."
It does not appear that the Supreme Court of Alabama has
passed upon this specific question. ' We do not think it necessary to determine absolutely the precise meaning of this section
or the limits of judicial inquiry under it. It may be simply declaratory, for courts have often held that it was beyond the
power of the legislature, under the guise of an act amending or repealing a charter, to take away the property of the
corporation. Clearly, -the question is, in the first instance,
presented for the consideration of the legislature, and a presumption of validity attends its action.
Obviously, from the several constitutional provisions which
are quoted in the statement of facts, it was intended that the
legislature should have the right of revocation and amendment,
and that whoever took a charter should take it subject to that
right. To what could such revocation or amendment extend?
The possible rights of a corporation group themselves into three
classes: First, the right to the tangible property which it may
acquire; second, the right to do the specific things which are
named in the charter; and, third, the right to exclude others from
doing like things. It has been held that the right of revocation
or amendment carries with it no right to appropriate the tangible property belonging to the corporation. As said by Chief
Justice Waite, speaking of the power of amendment, in Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 720: "All agree that it cannot
be used to take away property already acquired under the
operation of the charter, or to deprive the corporation of the
fruits actually reduced to possession of contracts lawfully made."
Nothing of this nature was, however, attempted by this legislation. The plaintiff was left in undisturbed possession of its
tangible property. So we need not stop to consider what protection could be afforded if the attempt had been made to take
away its property.
The second class includes the power of action granted to the
corporation; in other words, the right to use the tangible property for the purposes of the charter. But none of these powers
were taken away from the plaintiff. It was left free to use

BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY CO.

. MOBILE.

223

Opinion of the Court.

its plant in supplying the citizens of Mobile with water, and to
charge and collect pay for its services. Hence no inquiry is
pertinent in respect to the limitations, if any there be, on the
right of the legislature to take away such powers.
The remaining class is of those rights which flow from exclusive provisions in the charter-the right to prevent others
from doing the same things. It cannot be doubted that such
a right is valuable; that, for instance, it would be worth something to the plaintiff to have not only the right of supplying
Mobile with water, but also the right to exclude others, and
thus prevent all competition. That which gives to a government patent for an invention its chief -Value is not the right to
manufacture and sell the thing invented, but the right to exclude others from so doing-the monopoly for the prescribed
term of years. But the grant of a ifonopoly is forbidden by
the Alabama constitution. As said by its Supreme Court, in
the quotation just made: "The general assembly would itself
have no power under the constitution to make such a grant."
By a separate section'of the constitution it is affirmatively
declared that the legislature shall pass no act "making an irrevocable grant of special privileges or immunities." While
that body may grant special privileges and immunities, grant
franchises to build waterworks, construct railways, or other
works of public utility, and by a failure to duplicate a grant
make it in effect for the time being exclusive, yet no one legislature can forestall action by a succeeding legislature or bind
the State by making the grant in terms exclusive. As much
force and effect must be given to section 23 as to any other,
and it was obviously the intent that even if exclusive privileges
were granted, the monopoly feature thereof should always be
subject to revocation. In this section there is no suggestion
of amendment or alteration. That which is distinctly provided
is the absolute power of revocation. To hold that the exclusive feature of plaintiff's grant could not be revoked because
thereby injustice might be done to the corporators, is simply
to nullify section 23.
For these reasons we are of the opinion that the decree of
the Circuit Court was right, and it is
Airmed.

