OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Counsel for Parties.

UNITED .STATES v. NICHOLS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 249. Submitted May 2, 1902.-

Decided June 2,1902.

Section 19 of the customs administrative act of 1890, requiring that whenever imported merchandise is subject to an ad valorem duty, the duty
shall be assessed upon the value of all cartons, cases, crates, boxes, sacks
and coverings of any kind, has no application to glass bottles filled with
ad valorem goods. Such bottles are not "coverings" in the ordinary
sense of the word, and are specially provided for in the tariff acts.

THIs case came before the Court of Appeals upon appeal

from a decision of the Circuit Court for the Southern District

of New York, reversing a decision of the board of general appraisers, which affirmed the action of the collector of the port
of New York regarding the assessment of duty upon certain
imported merchandise. The Circuit Court of Appeals, being
in doubt-with regdrd to a certain question of law arising therein,
desired the instruction of the Supreme Court for its proper
decision.
The importatio4 was made under the tariff act of 1891, and
consisted of glass bottles, holding not more than one pint, and
filled.with goods dutiable at ad valorem rates. Upbn these
facts the question of law concerning which the instruction of
this court was desired was this .
';
Should the value of the bottles filled with ad valorem goods
be added to the dutiable value of their contents, under section
19 of the customs administrative act of 1890, to-made up the
dutiable value of the imported merchandise 9"
_r.Assistant Attorney General Hoyt for appellant.
No appearance for appellees.
MR. JusTCE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

UNITED STATES v. NICHOLS.
Opinion of the Court.

This case involves the dutiable classification of certain glass
bottles either under the customs administrative act of 1890, or
the tariff act of 1894. The statement of facts shows that the
bottles in question held not. more than one pint, and were imported filled with merchandise, which was liable to ad valorem
duties, and that they were assessed for duty at the respective
ad valoirem rates applicable to their contents as a part of their
value. The protest (referred to by counsel, though no part of
the record) claimed that the articles were free from duty, or,
failing that, were dutiable at 40 per cent ad valorem under
paragraphs 88, 89 or 90 of the tariff act of 1894.
Section 19 of the customs administrative act, (26 Stat. 131,
139,) provides that" whenever imported merchandise is subject
to an ad valorenm rate of duty . . . the duty shall be assessed upon the actual market price or wholesale price of such
merchandise,
.
including the value of all cartons, cases,
crates, boxes, sacks and coverings of any kind, and all other
costs, charges and expenses," etc.
At the time this act was passed the following provisions of
the tariff act of 1883 were in force, 22 Stat. 488, 495 :
"Green and colored glass bottles . . . not specially
enumerated or provided for in this act, one cent per pound;
if filled, and not otherwise in this act provided for, said articles shall pay thirty per cent ad valoremrn in addition to the duty
on the contents."
By the same act "flint and lime glass bottles and vials,
not specially enumerated or provided for in this act,"
were taxed at forty per centun ad valorem. "If filled, and
not otherwise in this act provided fQr, '.

.

forty per

centum ad valorem in addition to the duty on the contents."
Though the tariff act of 1883 is not directly in issue in this case,
it is pertinent to inquire whether the sections above cited respecting duties upon glass bottles were repealed by section 19 of
the customs administrative act. We are of opinion that they
were not. The customs administrative act was not a tariff act,
but,. as its title indicates, was intended "to simplify the laws in
connection with the collection of the revenues," and to provide
certain rules and regulations with respect to the assessment and

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

collection of duties, and the remedies of importers, and not to
interfere with any duties theretofore specifically imposed or
thereafter to be imposed, upon merchandise imported. Section 19 was intended to provide a general method for the assessment of ad valoi'ern duties, and to require the value of all
cartons, cases, crates, boxes, sacks and coverings of any kind
to be included in such valuation. We think the rule ejusdem
generis applies to the words "coverings of any kind," and that
.glass bottles, :which are never in ordinary parlance spoken of
as coverings for the liquor contained in them, is such a clear
departure from the preceding words as to exempt them from
the operation of the section, provided at least they are taxed
under a different designation. It is very singular that if Congress intended to include under the words "coverings of any
kind" vessels used for containing liquors,. it should not have
made use of the words casks, barrels, hogsheads, bottles, demijohns, carboys, or words of similar signification. The inference
is irresistible that by the words " coverings" it only intended
to include those previously enumerated and others of similar
character used for the carriage of solids and not of liquids.
Webster defines a covering as "anything which covers or conceals, as a roof, a screen, a wrapper, clothing," etc. ; but to
speak of a liquid as being covered by the bottle which contains
it, is such an extraordinary use of the English language that
nothing but the most explicit words of a statute could justify
that constructio:.
So, too, by cartons, cases, crates, boxes and sacks, we understand those encasements which are not usually of permanent
value, and such as are ordinarily used for the convenient transportation of their contents. Indeed, it is quite possible that
they were made taxable in a general way by the customs administrative act, in order that, if they were so made as to be of
further use after their contents were removed, they might not
escape taxation. The ordinary cartons, cases, crates, boxes
and sacks are of no value after their contents are removed, but
in order that they should not escape taxation altogether, if
they were of permanent value, they were included inthe general terms of the customs administrative act.

UNITED STATES v. NICHOLS.
Opinion of the Court.

The subsequent legislation upon the same subject tends to
show that Congress intended to preserve the distinction between
bottles and ordinary -coverings, and to make a special provision
for them. Thus, by the tariff act of October 1, 1890, 26 Stat.
567, par. 103, "green and colored, molded or pressed, and
flint and lime glass bottles, holdingmore than onepint,
and other molded or pressed green or colored and flint or lime
bottled glassware not specially provided for in this act, one
cent per pound,". while those not holding more than one pint
were taxed at fifty cents per gross, and by paragraph 104, "if
filled, and not otherwise provided for in this act, and the contents are subject to an ad valorem rate of duty, the value of
such bottles . . . shall be added to the value of the contents for the ascertainment of the dutiable value of the latter;
but if filled . . . and the contents are not subject to an
ad valorem rate of duty . . . they shall pay, in addition
to the duties on their contents, the duties prescribed in the
preceding paragraph." It will be noticed that by this act
there was a division, theretofore unrecognized, between bottles
holding more than one pint and those holding less than one
pint, but both classes were specifically taxed, whether filled or
unfilled; consequently the question arising in this case as to
the rate of duty payable, if the administrative act were not applied, would not arise under the act of October 1, 1890.
In 1894, the tariff was again revised, 28 Stat. 508, and by
paragraph 88 "green and colored, molded and pressed, and
flint and lime glass bottles holding more than one pint, .
whether filled or unfilled, and whether their contents be dutiable
or free," " were taxed at three fourths of one cent per pound,
and vials, holding not more than one pint and not less than one
quarter of a pint, forty cents per gross; all other plain, green
and colored, molded or pressed, and flint and lime glassware,
forty per cent ad valorem." By paragraph 248 of the same
act ginger ale or ginger beer was taxed at twenty per centuin
ad valorem, but no separate or additional duty was assessed
on the bottles. By paragraph 24, imposing duties upon still
wines, there was a proviso that "no separate or additional
duty shall be assessed on the bottles;" and by paragraph 245

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

a like provision was made with regard to ale, porter and beer
in bottles.
It will be observed that by paragraph 88 a duty was imposed upon bottles holding more than one pint, whether filled
or unfilled, but upon vials holding less than one pint there was,
probably by mistake, no provision that they should pay duty
if filled; hence arises the contention of the defendants in this
case, that if filled, they are either free of duty, or fall under
.the last clause of paragraph 88, and are dutiable at only forty
per centuim ad valorem.
The construction of these paragraphs in connection with the
administrative act of 1890 has been considered in several of the
lower couits, anda conclusion generally reached that where a
special, provision was made for a particular kind of covering,
the administrative act did not apply. Thus in United States v.
.Dickson, 73 Fed. Rep. 195, it was held that in assessing duty
on ginger ale in bottles under paragraph 249 above cited, the
provision that no additional duty shall be assessed on the
bottles prevented the collector from adding the value of the
bottles to the value of the ale, upon the ground that they were
coverings. The case was put pipon the ground that Congress
had legislated for bottles, eo nomine, as a separate subject of
duty. The decision was by the Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit, and affirmed the decision of Judge Townsend, 68
Fed. Rep. 534, and also a decision by Judge :cKennan in
7Lelar v. Hartranft,33 Fed. iRep..242, which, however, was decided before the customs administrative act. As bearing upon
the same subject, see United States v. L1eggett, 66 Fed. Rep.
,300. In United States v. Ross, 91 Fed. Rep. 108, it was held
that glass soda bottles holding less than one pint, and which
constithte the usual and necessary coverings of soda water imported therein, are not dutiable under the act of 1894. In
'ferck v. United States, 99 Fed. Rep. 432, it was held that
bottles holding not more than one pint of free goods and those
subject to a specified duty were free; and that bottles holding
(not?) more than one pint of merchandise subject to an ad
valorem duty are not themselves subject to duty. The customs

UNITED STATES v. NICHOLS.
Opinion of the Court.

administrative act seems to have been regarded by Judge
Townsend as having nothing really to do with the question.
The question certified does not require us to determine
whether the bottles in question are subject to a duty under
section 88 of the tariff act of 1894, or any other section, but
merely whether the value of the bottles, filled with ad vaZorem
goods, should be added to the dutiable value of the contents
under section 19 of the customs administrative act. The large
number of cases which have arisen under the tariff acts with
respect to the proper classification of glass bottles show that in
the mass of legislation upon that subject it is difficult to evolve
a construction appliable to all such cases, or to determine what
particular provision of the glassware sections shall be applied;
but it is sufficient to say that where such elaborate provisions
are made for a specific tax on glass bottles, whether filled or
unfilled, and whether their contents be subject to ad valor.erm
or specific duties, it was not intended that the general word
"coverings," used in the customs administrativA act, which, as
before observed, is not a tariff act' at all, was intended to supply any deficiency that might exist in the tariff act with respect
to those articles,
We have no doubt that the customs administrative act applies
to coverings generally, but we think that in view of the several
sections of the act.of 1894: upon the subject of glass bottles
Congress must have intended the words "coverings of any
kind" should not *apply to them, but that the other sections
must be looked to exclusively to determine their rates of duty.
As we are not called upon to determine that rate in this case,
but only to instruct the court whether the administrative
act applies to this case, we answer the question certifed
in the negative.

