PINE RIVER LOGGING CO. v. UNITED STATES. 279
Syllabus.

sum of $3200 which was paid to the United States at the original entry of the land. He thus by an expenditure of $75 recovers $3200, while neither the original entrymen who paid
the $3200 .nor their assignee, the Coal Company, recover anything. Inasmuch as, in the absence of a statute, there could be
no recovery of the purchase money, WTaples v. United Statm,
110 U. S. 630, one who seeks to take advantage of it must bring
himself clearly within its equity as well as within its letter, and
must show himself entitled not only to the land itself, but to
everything which the statute has annexed thereto as an incident. The right to a return of the purchase money is in no
sense an inbident to the land, and did not pass to the purchaser
upon the sale under the execution.
On the whole we are of opinibn that -the petitioner has not
shown* herself an- assign of the original entryman or otherwise entitled herself to the benefit of the statute, and the judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing her petition is, therefore,
Affirmed.

PINE RIVER LOGGING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 250. Argued May 1, 2, 1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

By an act of Congress of February 16, 1889, the .President was authorized
to allow Indians residing on reservations to cut and dispose of dead timber, standing or fallen, on such reservations, for the sole benefit of such
Indians. Defendants made five different contracts'with individual Indians for the cutting of 'an aggregate of 2,750,000 feet: As a matter
of fact, they cut and removed 17,000,000 feet. Held: That as to such excess both the Indians and the defendants were trespassers.
The objection that the several defendants were not responsible for the
acts of each other is one which should be taken at the trial, and if not so
taken, cannot be made available upon writ of error from this court.
In designating the number of feet to be cut under certain contracts, the
use of the words "about" or "more or less" will not justify the cutting of a quantity materially and designedly greater than the amount
provided for in the contract.

OCTOBER TERMN.

1901.

Statement ef the Case.
The fact that the parties themselves disregarded the amount stipulated in
the contract, and the further fact that the agent of the Indian Department, who personally directed what timber should be cut and supervised
such cutting, assented to their construction of the contract, is no excuse for a material departure from the terms of a contract, which had
been approved by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, acting under the
authority and regulations of the President.
With the contracts before them, the agents of the government had but
one duty, and that was to see that they were honestly and faithfully carried out according to their spirit and letter.
Damages were properly assessed at the value of the logs as they were
banked upon the streams and lakes near where they were cut.
Defendants being either wilful trespassers, or purchasers from such trespassers, were held not to be entitled to credit for the labor expended
upon the timber, but were liable for its full value when seized, although
if the trespass had been the result of inadvertence or mistake, and the
wrong was not intentional, the stumpage value of the timber when first
cut would be the proper measure of damages.
iie defendants were held not to be entitled to credit for a percentage of
the stipulated compensation paid to the Indian Department as trustee
for the benefit of helpless Indians.
In civil cases the United States recover the same costs as if they were a
private individual.
The reporter's fee for a transcript of the record used by the plaintiff in
preparing its bill of exceptions on appeal should not be taxed as costs.

THis was an action in the nature of trover begun in the Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota by the United States
against the Pine River Logging and Improvement Company, a
corporation, (hereinafter called The Logging Company,) Joel B.
Bassett and William L. Bassett, copartners under the name of
J. B. Bassett & Co., and John L. Pillsbury (for whom his administrators have since been substituted) and Charles A. Smith,
copartners as C. A. Smith & Co., defendants, to recover damages for an alleged wrongful entry by the defendants upon an
Indian reservation, and the cutting and removing of certain
pine timber thereon.
The complaint, which contains nine counts, charges in substance that nine different parties did, with the consent and
at the request of defendants, wrongfully enter upon certain
lands of the United States known as the Mississippi Indian
Reservation, and at the special instance and request of the defendants fell and cut into logs certain pine trees, which they

PINE RIVER LOGGING CO. v. UNITED STATES. 281
Statement of the Case.
delivered to the defendants, who thereupoii caused the logs to
be floated down the river to the city of Minneapolis, to be there
manufactured into lumber, which they had subsequently sold
and appropriated theproceeds thereof to their own use.
The answers filed by the defendants, The Logging Company
and the Bassetts allege in substance the following' facts: That
the logs referred to were cut under and by virtue of certain
contracts which had been entered into with individual Chippewa
Indians for the cutting of dead and down timber found on the
reservation; that said contracts had been executed in pursuance
of an act of Congress,. approved February 16, 1889, 25 Stat.
673, in relation to the cutting of timber on Indian lands; that
payment for the logs so cut and removed had been made in full
to the United States, and to the proper Ifidian agent,, in accordance with the provisions of said contracts; that said logs were
so cut by the Indians and delivered to and accepted by the defendants in good faith, in the honest belief that said logs had
been lawfully cut under their contracts froifi.dead and down
timber, and that defendants were entitled to the same and became owners thereof upon the delivery of the logs and upon
making the aforesaid payments; that after the logs had been
delivered to the defendants and before they were floated down
the river to Minneapolis, the United Stktes, through its proper
officer, had seized and taken possession of the logs, claiming
that they were cut from green and growing timber and not
from dead and down timber; that thereafter, for the purpose
of preserving said logs. and realizing their full value Tor the
party who should ultimately be determined to be the owner, a
contract was entered into between the United States on the one
hand and The Logging Company and J'. B. Bassett on the ether,
which provided in substance that the defendants might drive
the logs to Minneapolis without affecting the possession of the
United States or the interest of any of the parties in the logs,
and that after they had been driven to Minneapolis the defendants executed and delivered to the plaintiff a bond conditioned
to pay any judgment that might be rendered against the defendants by the United States on account of the cutting of their
logs. One of these bonds was executed by The Logging Com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

pany as principal, and the other by the firm of J. B. Bassett &
'Co. It was next set up in the answer of The Logging Company
that the United States had accepted the bond in lieu of the logs,
and that, relying upon said acts of the complainant, The Logging Company had disposed of the logs to others. It-was then
again specifically set up in the answer, as to the fourth, seventh
and eighth counts of the complaint, that the claim of the
United States was solely against J. B. Bassett & Co., and not
against The Logging Company; that the claim set up in the
first, second, third, fifth and sixth counts was solely against The
Logging Company, and that there was therefore a misjoinder
of causes of action in improperly uniting in one complaint causes
affecting solely The Logging Company and other causes of
action affecting solely the firm of J. B. Bassett & Co.
A separate answer was filed by the firm of C. A. Smith &
Co., who admitted receiving from The Logging Company a certain amount of the pine saw logs described in the complaint,
and that they manufactured the same into lumber, and disposed
of it in the ordinary course of their business; that the amount
of the lumber so manufactured was 15,628 feet, and that the
value of the same was not greater than the sum of $132.84; that
the defendants in receiving and manufacturing said logs honestly
believed that The Logging Company was the owner and entitled to dispose of them. They also pleaded a misjoinder and
non-liability for the acts of the other defendants.
The answer of The Logging Company admitted in substance
that, under and by virtue of the three contracts between itself
and the Indians, it bad received into its possession, converted
into lumber, and ultimately sold pine saw logs, cut upon Indian
reservations, which had yielded in the aggregate 13,463,400
feet. The defendants, J. B. Bassett & Co., likewise admitted
that under two contracts with the Indians they had received
saw logs which had yielded in the aggregate 4,136,860 feet of
lumber.
The United States demurred to parts of these answers, and
replied to other parts, admitting that The Logging Company
and Bassett & Co. had each entered into contracts with certain
Indians, but averred that all the logs cut under some of the

PINE RIVER LOGGING CO. v,. UNITED STATES. 283
Opinion of the Court

contracts and a large portion of the logs cut under other contracts were cut from pine trees that were. alive and standing,
while the contracts authorized only the cutting of dead and
down timber.
The case being at issue upon. these pleadings, The Logging
Company and Bassett & Co. moved for a judgment against the
government upon the pleadings for the sole reason, as stated
in the motion, that on the facts admitted the plaintiff was not
entitled to maintain an action of trover or conversion against
these defendants, or either of them, for the matters and things
set out in said cause of action; but that the remedy of the government was upon the bonds given when the logs were surrendered to the defendants. This motion was sustained by the
Circuit Court and a judgment entered against the United States,
which, however, was reversed by the Court of Appeals, holding
that neither of the bonds became available to the United States
until a judgment had been obtained in its favor. The case was'
remanded for a new trial. 78 Fed. Rep. 319.
Upon the case being sent back to the Circuit Court there was
a second-trial, which also resulted in a judgment in favor of the
defendants. The Ccurt of Appeals reversed this judgment upon:
exceptions taken by the United States at the trial. 89 Fed.
Rep. 907.
A third trial of the case resulted in a verdict, by direction of
the court, in favor of the United States for $88,269.94. This
judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Whereupon a writ of error was sued'out from this court.
Xr. A. S. WVorthington for plaintiffs in error.
Xr. John . Stryker for the United States. Mr. Robert A.
"
. Solicitor General ]ichard8were on his brief.
Howard and MrM
MR.

JUsTicE

BRowx delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was tried before a jury upon the theory that the
defendants went far beyond the terms of their contracts with
the Indians, and cut not only a large excess in quantity, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

selected a quality of timber wholly unauthorized by the contracts, or by the acts of Congress, or the regulations of the
President in connection therewith. The questions to be considered arise upon objections to the testimony and the instruction
of the court to the jury to return a verdict for the plaintiffs.
It is conceded that the fee to the lands comprised within Indian reservations is in the United States, subject to a right of
occupancy on the part of the Indians, and that the unauthorized
cutting of timber upon Indian reservations is not only unlawful,
United States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591; IVrrthern Pacfl Railroad v. Lewis, 162 U. S. 366, but is made a criminal offence by
the act of June 4, 1888. 25 Stat. 166. But by an act of Congress passed February 16, 1889, 25 Stat. 673, it is provided:
"That the President of the United States may from year to
year in his discretion, under such regulations as he may prescribe, authorize the Indians residing on reservations or allotments, the fee to which remains in the United States, to fell,
cut, remove, sell or otherwise dispose of the dead timber standing or fallen, on such reservation or allotment, for the sole benefit of such Indian or Indians. But whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that such timber has been killed, burned,
girdled or otherwise injured for the purpose of securing its sale
under this act, then iin that case such authority shall not be
granted."
It will be observed that by this statute no general authority
is given to Indians to cut timber upon their reservations. The
act contemplates that the authority shall be temporary only,
"from year to year,3 ' and it is further limited to "dead timber
standing or fallen," and that it shall be disposed of solely for
the benefit of the Indian or Indians to whom the authority is
given.
Pursuant to this act certain regulations were prepared by the
Secretary of the Interior, approved by the President, and extended to the Indians of the Chippewa reservation in the State
of Minnesota. These regulations provided that each Indian
who engaged in the work should provide his own logging outfit ind supplies; that no Indian should be -- lowed to log who
has children of school age, but not attending school, unless in

PINE RIVER LOGGING CO. v. UNITED STATES. 285
Opinion of the Court.

the opinion of his agent some good reason existed in special
cases which were sufficient to exempt particular persons .from
this requirement; otherwise, every Indian on the reservation,
not well employed, should be permitted and encouraged to engage in the work; that all cutting should be done under the
superintendence and direction of a competent white man, who
should go into the woods with the Iidians, "to theend that no
green or growing timber may be cut, and that no live trees are
damaged in any manner, so as to cause them to die;
and to inspect the scaling of the logs;" that with the exception of a superintendent and of foremen and blacksmiths, all
white labor was to be excluded from the reservation; that the
logs cut should be sold at public sale to the highest bidder,
either by auction or by calling for sealed proposals, at the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior, after at least two
weeks' notice by publication in the newspapers, and no sale of
the logs should be valid until approved by the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs; and that ten per cent of the gross proceeds
derived from such sale of the logs should go to the stumpage or
poor fund of the tribe, from which the old, sick and otherwise
helpless might be supported.
The timber in this case was cut under five different contracts
made between individual Indians and the defendants, all of
which were limited to dead and down timber, to be cut during
the season of 1891 and 1892. The first provided for 250,000
feet; the second for 500,000 feet; the third for 500,000 feet;
the fourth for 1,000,000 feet and the fifth for 500,000 feet.
The whole amounted to 2,750,000 feet. These contracts were
approved by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and, although
in some of their provisions, they differed from the general regulations above stated, which provided for a public sale of logs
at auction or under sealed proposals, they must be regarded as
superseding those regulations in that particular, and as constituting new regulations approved by the President and Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
The object of the statute, as interpreted by these regulations,
was evidently to permit deserving Indians, who had no other
sufficient means of support, to cut for a single season a limited

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

quantity of dead and down timber under the superintendence
of a properly qualified white man, and to use the proceeds for
their support in exact proportion to the scale of logs banked by
each, provided that ten per cent of the gross proceeds should
go to the stumpage or poor fund of the tribe, from which the
old, sick and otherwise helpless might be supported. The rights
of the government to the unimpaired value of the land and to
the standing timber were carefully guarded by the proviso that
no green or growing timber should be cut, and no live trees
damaged, so as to cause them to die, that they might be marketed
under the provisions of the act. Nothing can be plainer than
that there was no intention on the part of Congress or the
President t6 authorize promiscuous logging opcations, or the
felling of live standing timber, or that a few Indians should be
permitted to monopolize the proceeds, but that they should be
divided among the individuals of the tribe in proportion to the
scale of the logs banked by each
1. The first assignment of error takes exception to the action
of the Circuit Court in instructing the jury to return a verdict
for the United States, because it required The Logging Company
to become responsible for, and pay the obligations of, Bassett &
Co., and required that firm to pay the obligations of The Logging Company, and algo required the firm of C. A. Smith & Co.
to pay the obligations both of The Logging Company and Bassett & Co., when there was no evidence in the case to justify
the court in holding any of the parties liable for the obligations
of the others; or if such evidence existed at all, it was a question of fact for the jury.
The difficulty with this assignment is, that no such point appears to have been taken upon the trial of the case in the Circgit Court. The bill of exceptions shows that when the plaintiff rested, defendants moved the court that the plaintiff "elect
as to the time and place of the conversation (conversion) upon
which it relies," and that plaintiff thereupon elected to take the
value of the logs in the spring of 1892 as they were at the time
of the seizure. Updn the conclusion of the entire testimony
plaintiff moved the court to strike out all the evidence offered
by the defendants with reference to their good faith in the trans-

PINE RIVER LOGGING CO. v. UNITED STATES. 287
Opinion of the Court.

actions, which. the court denied, and plaintiff excepted; and
thereupon the court instructed the jury to return its verdict in
favor of the plaintiff, to which an exception was also taken. No
such objection upon the ground of misjoinder was taken in the
assignment of errors filed in the Circuit Court of Appeals to review that judgment, or in the original assignment of errors filed
in this court and incorporated in the record. It would appear
that the objection was made on behalf of the defendants in the
first trial of the case, inasmuch as it is mentioned in the first
opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals. 78 Fed. Rep. 320.
It will be remembered that upon this first trial the case was
submitted upon the pleadings alone, defendants taking an objection in the nature of a demurrer that, upon. the facts admitted'
by the pleadings, the government could not recover, but was
relegated to an action upon the bonds .given when the logs were
surrendered to' the defendants. The Circuit Court of Appeals
held that the complaint did not disclose a misjoinder of causes
of action, and also that the judgment rendered by the Circuit
Court was in such form that, if sustained, it would bar a subsequent suit against either of the defendants for a wrongful
conversion of the property. The point was therefore held not
to be well taken, and from that time seems to have been waived
or abandoned, as it does not appear to have been raised upon
the second or third trials.
This clearly precludes the defendants from raising the question at this stage of the case. It is well settled in this court
that an objection that the evidence does not support a joint action against all of the defendants-in other words, a variance
betweeen the pleadings and proofs-is one which should be
taken at the trial, and cannot be raised for the first time in the
appellate court. In Roberts v. Graham, 6 Wall. 578, it was
said that an objection of variance between the allegations and
proofs must be taken when the evidence is offered, and will not
even be available upon motion for new trial. See also O'lReilly
v. Campbell,116 U. S. 418; Patrickv. Graham, 132 U. S. 627;
Boston & Albany 1. R. Co. v. O'Reilly, 158 U. S. 334.
But, in addition to this, the record is by no means barren of
evidence of a joint responsibility. While the contracts with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Indians were separately made by each defendant, and their accounts of logs cut and money paid were kept distinct from each
other, and each averred that it had nothing to do with the contracts of the other, two of the defendants testified that the logs
cut under the five contracts were equally divided between C. A.
Smith & Co. and J. B. Bassett & Co., and not according to the
amounts named in the contracts; that The Logging Company
was practically controlled by C. A. Smith & Co., and that the
logging operations were conducted under the supervision of
three men who were acting as agents of these firms. We do
not undertake to say that there was not evidence upon this
point which, if the attention of the court had been called to it,
should not have been submitted to the jury; but as the questiori was not made in the Circuit Court or in the Court of Appeals it is too late to raise it upon a writ of error from this
court. '
2. By the second assignment it is insisted that the court should
either have instructed the jury, or left to them to determine,
that under the contracts between The Logging Company and
Bassett & Co. respectively on the one hand, and the Indians on
the other, as those contracts had been construed and acted upon
by all parties in interest, including the United States, these companies respectively had a good title to all the dead and down
timber delivered to them by the Indians under the contracts,
without regard to the specific quantity of timber mentioned
therein.
In two of the contracts the designation of the quantity of
timber to be cut is preceded by the word "about," and in the
other three is followed by the words "more or less." It is contended that by the use of these words the contracts were susceptible of a wide latitude of construction,'and if the parties themselves disregarded the limitations, the court, in interpreting those
contracts, will adopt the construction given them by the parties
interested.
There is no doubt -whatever of the general proposition that
where the words "about" or "more or less" are used as estimates of an otherwise designated quantity, and the object of
the parties is the sale or purchase of a particular lot, as a pile of

PINE RIVER LOGGING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

289

Opinion of the Court.

wood or coal, or the cargo of a particular ship, or a certain parcel of land, the words "more or less," used in connection with
the estimated quantity, are susceptible of a broad construction,
and the contract would be interpreted as applying to the particular lot or parcel, provided it be sufficiently otherwise identified.
This doctrine is well illustrated in the case of Brawley v. United
States, 96 U. S. 168, where the contract was to deliver to a military post 880 cords of wood, "more or less, as shall be determined to be necessary by the post commander, for the regular
supply, in accordance with army regulations and the troops and
employ~s of the garrison of said post." It was held that the
latter were the determinative words of the contract, andthe
quantity, designated at 880 cords, *as to be -regarded merely as'
an estimate of what the officer making the contract at the time
might suppose would be required; and that the government
was not liable for more than forty cords of wood which was
accepted by the officers. So in Watts v. Camors, 115 U. S.
353, it was held that where a ship was described in a charter
party as of the burden of 1100 tons, "or thereabouts," registered measurement, the charterer was bound to accept her, although her.registered measurement, unknown to both parties,
was 1203 tons.
But, upon the other hand, -ifthe agreement be to manufacture, furnish or deliver certain property not then in exist.
ence, or to be taken from a larger quantity, the addition of the
words "more or less" will be given a narrow construction, and
held to apply only to such accidental or immaterial variations
in quantity as would naturally occur in connection with such a
transaction. V'orrington v. VF'ight, 115 U. S.188.
The contracts in this case unquestionably belong to the latter class. They were contracts to cut and deliver a certain
quantity of dead and d9wn timber, and if construed, as is
claimed, to authorize the cutting of six times that amount, the
quantity might as well have been omitted altogether. The
argument of the defendants in that connection is virtually an
insistence that the specification of the quantity to be cut should
be discarded, and as the payment was stipulated at a certain
price per thousand feet, the contract should be. interpreted as
VOL. CLXX-XVI--19

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

authorizing the cutting of an unlimited quantity, so long as 'the
price paid was that stipulated in the contract.
Defendants' main reliance, however, is upon the construction
of these contracts by the parties themselves, including the
United States, and in support of their position they invoke the
general rule that where both parties to a contract have by their
subsequent conduct given it a construction different from what
the law might have given it, the courts will adopt that construction; and' that the statutes under which the cutting was
done, the correspondence between the Secretary of the Interior,
and the President upon the subject, the regulations which the
latter adopted for carrying the act into effect, and the conduct
of the parties to the contracts, tend to shoW that they were intended to authorize the removal of all the dead and down timber on the public land described in them. Undoubtedly there
is some support for the proposition in the disregard by the parties to the contract of the limitations of quantity to be cut;
•but upon the statute and regulations we put, as before stated, an
entirely different interpretation. The argument overlooks the
*fact that the Indians had: no right to the timber upon this land
other than to provide themselves with the necessary wood for
their individual use, or to improve their land, United States v.
Cook, 19 Wall. 591, except so far as Congress chose to extend
such right; that they had no right even to contract for the
cutting of dead and down timber, unless such contracts were
approved by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs; that the Indians in fact were not treated as sui jurs, but every movement made by them, either in the execution or the performance of the contract, was subject to government supervision for
the express purpose of securing the latter against the abuse of
the right given by the statute. It is true that, as a matter of
fact, the work was done under these contracts under the superintendence of a government agent, vho personally directed
what timber should be cut, and when the timber had been cut
and a final settlement was made with the Indians, the amounts
found to be due them were paid to the Indian agent, who, with
the contracts before him, must have known when he received
his payments the quantity of timber which had been cut under
the different contracts.

PINE RIVER LOGGING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

291

Opinion of the Court.
It is unnecessary to inquire what excuses may be made by
these officers for thus indirectly approving the construction put
upon the contracts by the parties interested, since they could
not bind the government in this particular. With the contracts
before them they bad but one duty, and that was to see that
they were honestly and faithfully carried out according to their
spirit and letter. No authority had been given them to extend
the contracts either as to the quantity or quality of timber to
be cut. In fact, they were placed in charge of the operations
for the express purpose of seeing that there should be no violtion of the contracts in these particulars. They, as well as the
parties thereto, were equally bound by its provisions. No discretion had been given them to waive or alter the contracts in'
any particular. No conduct-of theirs can estop the government
from asserting its rights to recover for timber cut beyond the
quantity and quality specified in the contract. Lee v. Yonroe,
7 Cranch, 366; The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666 ; Whiteside v. United States, 93 U. S. 247. We are therefore of opinion that the defendants cannot take refuge under the consent
or acquiescence of the government agent in the disregard of these
contracts.
To give to them the construction claimed by defendants is
not only inconsistent with their language, but with the regulations of the President, the design of which was to permit every
Indian en the reservation to engage in the work of cutting dead
and down timber, and that no one should obtain more than his
fair share of such privilege. The timber in question, if allowed
to lie upon the land, would simply rot and go to waste, and its
removal and sale were no detriment to the land or the government; and this right, if judicially exercised, would give support to a good many Indians who had no other means of earning a living. The regulations, however, properly limited the
right to Indians "not well employed," and provided that no
favoritism should be shown by the agent in the management of
the business, and that no Indian should be permitted to monopolize the business for his own profit. In short, the object of
these regulations was to prevent exactly what was done in this
case, that is, the appropriation to a few Indians of the benefits

OCTOBER TERH, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of the act to the exclusion of the many. It will be observed
that while the defendants were interested in all these contracts,
care was taken that one contract should not be made for the
delivering of the gross amount of logs, but that five different
contracts should be entered into with different Indians, undoubtedly for the very purpose of preventing a monopoly by a
single person, the largest of these contracts being only for a
million feet.
3. The third assignment of error is directed to the proper
measure of damages, which were assessed at the value of the
logs as they were banked upon the streams and lakes in the
neighborhood of where they were cut. It is insisted that the
proper measure' was the value to the government of the timber
before the Indians or the contractors had, by their labors, added
to that value.
To determine the proper measure of damages, it is necessary
to consider the exact relation of the defendants to this timber.
They were certainly pot innocent purchasers for value of the
logs that were cut. All the logs were cut under contracts with
individual Indians, by which the latter had agreed to cut, haul
and deliver to the defendant, upon the' Mississippi River, or
waters tributary thereto, an aggregate of 2,750000 feet of dead
and down timber, defendants agreeing to pay to the Indian
Department ten per cent of the purchase price as stumpage for
such timber, which should be deducted from the price of $4 per
thousand agreed to be paid. As a matter of fact, there were
delivered on these contracts over 17,000,000 instead of 2,750,000
feet contracted for, a large proportion of which seems to have
been cut from green and growing timber, though the quality
of the timber is not in issue here. Defendants could not have
failed to know that they were paying for a very much larger
amount than they had agreed to buy, or than the Indian' had
any power to sell. They knew that their contracts had beenapproved by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs upon the basis
of a certain quantity of dead and down timber, and that if the
agent of the Indian Department had acquiesced in the amount
and quality of timber actually cut, he had exceeded his authority, and his acts were not binding upon the government.

PINE RIVER LOGGING CO. v. UNITED STATES. 293
Opinion of the Court.

Granting that -the question that what constituted "dead and
down" timber might be the subject of a bonafide dispute, there
was no question but that the amount of timber received grossly
exceeded the amount contracted for, and that an agreement to
cut 2,750,000 feet could not be glossed over by the words
"

about" or

"

more or less" in any such way as to cover

17,000,000 feet.
The case of Woodenware Co. v. United States, 106 U. S. 432,
is decisive of the law in this connection. That was also an action of trover brought by the United States for the value of
242 cords of ash timber cut from the Oneida reservation in the
State of Wisconsin. The timber was knowingly and wrongfully taken from the reservation by Indians, and carried to a'
distant town, where it was sold to the Woodehware Company,
which was not chargeable with any intentional wrong or misconduct or bad faith in the purchase. The timber on the
ground, after it was felled, was worth twenty-five cents per
cord, and at the town where the defendant bought it, $3.50 per
cord. The question was whether the liability of the defendant
should. be measured by the value of the timber on the ground
where it was cut, or at the town Where it was delivered. It
was held that where the trespass is the result of inadvertence
or mistake, and the wrong was not intentional, the value of the
property when first taken must govern ; or, if the conversion
sued for was after value had been added to it by the work of
the defendant, he should be credited with this addition. Upon
the other hand, if the trespass be wilfully committed, the trespasser can obtain no credit for the labor expended upon it, and
is liable for its full value when seized; and if the defendant
purchase it in its then condition, with no notice that it belonged to the United States, and with no intention to do wrong,
he must respond by the same rule of damages as his vendor
would, if he had been sued. "This right" (of the recovery of
the property), said the court, "at the moment preceding the
purchase by defendant at Depere, was perfect, with no right in
any one to set up a claim for work and labor bestowed on it by
the wrongdoer. It is also plain that by purchase from the
wrongdoer, defendant did not acquire any better title to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

property than his vendor had. It is not a oase where an innocent purchaser can defend himself under that plea. If it were,
he would be liable to no damages at all, and no recovery could
be had. On the contrary, it is a case to which the doctrine of
caveat emptor applies, and hence the right of recovery in plaintiff."
The cases involving this distinction and in line with the
TWoodmnware case are abundant, both in the Federal and state
courts, and are too numerous even for citation. We do not
see that the defendants are in any better position by the fact
that the contracts were approved by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, since it was not what was done in pursuance of
these contracts but what was done in disregard of them, which
lies at the basis of plaintiff's action. Had the contracts been
adhered to, clearly there could have been no recovery. We
are not called upon to explain the conduct of the government
agent who superintended the cutting of this timber. It is sufficient to say, as already stated, that his acts in excess of his
authority, which must have been well known to the defendants,
afford them no protection. To say that all'parties, including
the Indians, the government agent and the defendants, may
have honestly supposed that their right extended to all dead
and down timber upon the lands described in the contracts, is
to impute to them an ignorance of the English language. This
might be ascribed to the Indians but not to the other parties.
It is unnecessary to say that the defendants do not stand in a
position of innocent purchasers in good faith.
It may admit of some question whether their advances of
money and supplies to the Indians to carry on the logging operations was not a violation of the regulation that "each Indin
shall provide his own logging outfit and supplies," but however
this may be, it gives no color to the assertion that the defendants acted in good faith, since they could hardly have failed to
know that their advances must have been greatly in excess of
what was needed for preparing for market less than three million feet of logs.
We regard the rule laid down in the Woodenware case, that
an intentional trespasser, or a purchaser from him, shall have

PINE RIVER LOGGING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

295

Opinion of the Court.

no credit for the labor he may have expended upon the property at the time of its conversion, as an eminently proper and
wholesome one. It is, and has for many years been, notorious
that under the various guises of Indian contracts, purchases of
timber entries, or cutting timber for railway, mining or agricultural purposes, the timber lands of the United States are being denuded of all their substantial value by logging concerns
gradually gathering to themselves all the valuable timber of
the country, which Congress intended to reserve for the benefit of homestead entrymen, or the purchasers of land in small
parcels. If trespassers under these circumstances were permitted to escape by the payment of the mere stumpage value
of the standing timher, there would be a strong inducement
upon the part of these operators to avail themselves of every
opportunity of seizing this timber, since they would incur no
greater liability than the payment of a nominal sum. It is
only by denying them a credit- for their labor expended upon
it that the government can obtain an adequate reparation for
this constantly growing evil, and trespassers be made to suffer
some punishment for their depredations.
4. The fourth assignment is based upon the proposition that
the contractors should have been allowed credit for the amount
paid to the United States for stum page on account of the
14,850,260 feet included in the verdict. The stumpage representing this quantity of timber would be $6400.
This payment was not made to the United States in reimbursement of their claim for timber, but under regulations, of
the President, and under their contracts with the Indians that
they would pay ten per cent of the stip.lated compensation of
$4 per thousand feet to the Indian Department as stumpage,
which should be deducted from the price of $4 per thousand
feet, and under the condition that such stumpage should go to
the poor fund of the tribe, from which its helpless members
might be supported. This payment was not made to the government as vendor, but to be held by the Indian Department
as trustee for the benefit of helpless Indians, and was as much
a part of the stipulated price to be paid for the timber as the
other ninety per cent of the $4 per thousand feet.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

5. The fifth objection assigns as error the exclusion by the
trial court of a telegram of March 16, 1898, from the Acting
Commissioner of the Land Office to The Logging Company,
stating simply that the Commissioner had accepted the bond
of the defendants in lieu of the logs, and that the government
agent had been directed to release the logs. A like exception
was taken to a letter from the special agent of the Land Office
to The Logging Company, repeating the telegrams, and stating
that the logs had been released. We do not see the materiality
of these papers. There is no doubt that the bonds were accepted in lieu of the logs themselves, and as security for any
judgment that might be obtained. Neither the telegram nor
the letter dd anything to the inferences to be derived from the
face of the instruments.
6. The same remark may be made as to the exclusion of certain conversations of Charles A. Smith with Indians in the fall
of'1891, wherein the Indians informed him that there was a
large amount of dead and down timber on the reservation
which could be cut. Of course, there was, or the contract
would not have been made. We fail to see that these conversations had any bearing upon the question of the good faith of
the defendants. The seventh, eighth and ninth assignments of
error need no comment.
7. In the tenth assignment it is insisted that the court erred
in taxing costs against the defendants. While the rule is well
settled that costs cannot be taxed against the United States,
the rule is believed to be universal, in civil cases at least, that
the United States recover the same costs as if they were a
private individual. We know of no case in this court directly
adjudicating the liability of unsuccessful defendants for costs
in actions brought by the United States, although it was assumed in United States v. Sanborn, 135 U. S. 271, 281, where
the question arose as to particular fees included in a general
bill. Throughout the elaborate opinion of MNr. Justice Harlan
the liability of the defendant for costs was assumed, and suchhas been the ruling generally in the lower courts, although the
reported cases -upon the subject are rare. United States v.
Davis, 54 Fed. Rep. 147. It has been assumed rather than
decided.

PINE RIVER LOGGING CO. v. UNITED STATES. 297
Opinion of the Court.
8. The item of $353.69, reporter's fees for a transcript of
the record used by the plaintiff in preparing its bill of exceptions on the former appeal, was improperly allowed.
By Rev. Stat. section 983, "lawful fees for exemplifications
and copies of papers necessarily obtained for use on trials in
cases where by law costs are recoverable in favor of the prevailing party, shall be taxed by the judge or clerk of the court;"
and by rule 31, subdivision 3, of the Circuit Court of Appeals,,
"the cost of the transcript of the record from the court below
shall be taxable in that court as costs in the case." It has been,
held in a number of cases that section 983 did not include a
transcript of the evidence for the personal use of counsel in
preparing a case for an appellate court. JWooster v. I7andy,
23 Fed. Rep. 49, 60, by Judge Blatchford, who says the language implies that the copies must have been actually used on
or in the trial or final hearing, or at least obtained for such
use. In Te William Branfoot, 52 Fed. Rep. 390, 395, it was
held by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller that a copy of the official
stenographer's notes, obtained for libellant by his counsel, was
simply for convenience, and not a copy necessarily used on the
trial, and the charge therefor was properly rejected. To the
same effect are Gunther v. Live2pool &c. Insurance Co., 10
Fed. Rep. 830; Kelly v. Springfield Railway Co., 83 Fed.
Rep. 183, and Myonahan v. Godein, 100 Fed. Rep. 196. This
error, however, does not render it necessary to reverse the
judgment of the court below. The amount of the reporter's
fees, $356.69, may be deducted from the judgment.
In conclusion, we are 6f opinion that there was no error committed upon the last trial. The case was an aggravated one,
the conduct of the companies wholly" indefensible, and the
right of the government to recover is entirely clear.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals, subject to the above
deduction, is right, and -it is, therefore,
Affirmed.

