OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tion between the volunteer or militia force and -the Regular
Army, it rests in its discretion to so provide.
We are of opinion, after a careful examination of this record,
that the decision of the court below was right, and- the order
discharging the defenqdant from custody should be
4fflrmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUsTICE MoKENNA dissented.
MR. JUSTIcE GRAY and MR. JUSTIcE BREWER did not hear the
argument and took no part in the decision.

BE]MIENT v. NATIONAL HARROW COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 215. Argued April 9,10, 1902.-Decided May 19, 1902.
Any one sued upon a contract may set up, as a defence, that it is a violation
of an act of Congress.
The object of the patent laws is monopoly, and the rule is with few exceptions, that any conditions which are not in their very nature illegal with.
regard to this kind of property, imposed by the patentee, and agreed to
by the licensee for the right to manufacture or use or sell the article, will
be upheld by the courts; and the fact that the conditions in the contracts
keep up the monopoly, does not render them illegal. Thie prohibition
was a reasonable prohibition for the defendant, who would 'thus be excluded from making such harrows as were made by others, who were engaged in manufacturing and selling other machines under other patents;
but it would be unreasonable to so construe the provision, as to prevent
the defendant from using any letters patent legally obtained by itand
not infringing patents owned by others.
Upon the fats found, there was no error in the judgment of the Court of
Appeals, and it is affirmed.

THIs was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Stateof New York, to which court the record had .been remitted
after a decision of the case by the Court of Appeals. The action
was brought by the plaintiff below, the defendant in error here,

BE3MENT v. NATIONAL HARROW CO.
Statement of the Case.

a corporation, to recover the amount of liquidated damages
arising out of an alleged violation by the defendant below, the
plaintiff in error here, also a corporation, of certain contracts
executed between the parties, in relation to the manufacture
and sale of what are termed in the contracts "float spring tooth
harrows," their frames and attachments applicable thereto, under letters patent owned by the plaintiff. The action was also
brought to restrain the future violation of such contracts, and
to compel their specific performance by the defendant. The
case was tried before a referee pursuant to the statute of New
York providing therefor, and he ordered judgment in favor of
the plaintiff for over twenty thousand dollars, besides enjoining
the defendant from violating its contract with the plaintiff, and
directing their specific performance as continuing contracts.
This judgment was reversed by the appellate division of the
Supreme Court and an order made granting a new trial, but on
appeal from such order the Court of Appeals reversed it and
affirmed the original judgment. The defendant brings the case
here by writ of error.
The particular character of the acti m appears from the pleadings. The complaint, after alleging the incorporation of both
parties to the action, the plaintiff in New Jersey and the defendant in Michigan, averred that about April 1, 1891, the plaintiff's assignor, a New York corporation,' entered with the defendant into certain license. contracts, called therein Exhibits A
and B. The substance of contract A is as follows: It stated
that the plaintiff was the owner of certain letters patent of the
United States, which had been issued to other parties- and were
then owned by the plaintiff, for improvements relating to float
spring tooth harrows, harrow frames and attachments applicable thereto, eighty-five of which patents were enumerated, and
that the defendant desired to acquire the right to use in its
business of manufacturing at Lansing, (in the State of Michigan,) and to sell throughout the United States, under such patents or some 6ne or more of them, and under all other patented
rights owned or thereafter acquired by the plaintiff, which applied to and embraced the peculiar construction employed by
the defendant, during the term of such patents or either or any

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

, thereof, applicable to and embracing such construction. The
plaintiff then, in and by such contract, gave and granted to the
defendant the licen.e and privilege of using the rights under
those patents in its -business of manufacturing, marketing and
vending to others to be used, float spring tooth harrows, float
spring tooth harrow frames without teeth and attachments applicable thereto; a sample of the harrow frames and attachments the defendant was licensed to manufacture and sell, being
(as stated) in the possession of the treasurer of the plaintiff, and
marked and numbered as set forth in schedule A, which was
made a part of the license. The license was granted upon the
terms therein set forth, which were as follows:
(1) The defendant was to pay a royalty of one dollar for each
float spring tooth harrow or frame sold by it pursuant to the
ltaen~e, to be paij to the plaintiff at its office in the city of
Utica in the State of New York.
(2) The-defendant was to make verified reports of its busihess each month and mail them to the plaintiff, and the defendant agreed that it would not ship these harrows to any person,
firm or corporation to be sold on commission, or allow any rebate or reduction from the price or prices fixed in the license,
except to settle with an insolvent debtor for harrows previously
sold and delivered.
(3) The defendant agreed that it would not during the continuanpe of the license sell its products manufactured under the
license at a less price or on more favorable terms of payment
and delivery to the purchasers than was set forth in schedule B,
which was made a part of the license, except as thereinafter
provided.
(4) The plaintiff reserved the right to decrease the selling
price and to make the terms of payment and delivery more
favorable to the purchasers, and it might reduce the royalty on
the harrows manufactured under the license.
(5) The- plaintiff agreed to furnish license labels to the defendant, which were to be affixed to each article sold, and the"
amount of ten cents paid for each of such labels was to be credited and allowed on the royalty paid by the defendant at the,
time of such payment.

BEMENT v. NATIONAL HARROW CO.
Statement of the Case.

(6) The defendant agreed that it would not, during the continuance of. the license, be directly or indirectly engaged in
the manufacture or sale of any other float spring tooth harrows, etc., than those which it was licensed to manufacture and
make under the terms of the license, except -such as it might
manufacture and furnish another licensee of the National Harrow Company, and then only such constructions thereof as such
other licensee should be licensed by the plaintiff to manufacture
and sell, except such other style and construction as it might be
licensed to manufacture and sell by the plaintiff.
(7)The defendant agreed to pay to the plaintiff for each
and every of the articles sold contrary to the strict terms and
provisions of the license, the sum of five dollars, which sum was
thereby agreed upon and fixed as liquidated damages.
(8) The defendant agreed not to directly or indirectly, in any
way, contest the validity of any patent applicable to and embracing the construction which the defendant was licensed to
manufacture, or which it might manufacture, for another licqnsee, which such other licensee was itself licensed to manufacture or sell, or the reissues thereof, and no act of either party
should invalidate this admission. The defendant also agreed
not to alter or change the construction of the float spring tooth
harrows, float spring tooth harrow frames, without teeth or
attachments applicable thereto, which it was authorized to manufacture and sell under the license, in any part or portions thereof
which embody any of' the inventions covered by the letters
patent, or any of them, or any reissues thereof.
(9) The plaintiff agreed that after the license was delivered
it would not grant licenses or let to any other person. the right
to manufacture- the articles named of the peculiar style and construction or embodying the peculiar features thereof used by
the defendant, as illustrated and embodied in the'sample harrow
then placed in the possession of the treasurer of the plaintiff
and referred to in schedule A of the license:
(10) Nothing contained in the license was to authorize the
defendant to manufacture or vend, directly or indirectly, any
other or different style of harrow than duplicates of such sam-

OCTOBER .TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

ples as had been deposited by it with the plaintiff, and such as
were embraced in the license.
(11) Any departure from the terms of the license might at
the option of the plaintiff be treated as a breach of the license,
and the licensee might be treated as an infringer, or the plaintiff might restrain the breach thereof in a suit brought for that
purpose and obtain an injunction, the licensee waiving any right
of trial by jury; such remedy was to be in addition to the
liquidated damages already provided for.
(12) The termination of the license by the plaintiff was not
to release the defendant from its obligation to pay for articles
sold up to the termination of the license.
(13) Th6 plaintiff agreed to defend the defendant in any suit
brought for an alleged infringement.
(14) No royalties were to be paid for articles exported for use
in a foreign country.
(15) The license was personal to the licensee and not assignable, except to the successors of the defendant in the same place
and business, without the written consent of the plaintiff, nor
were the royalties or other sums specified to cease to be paid
under any circumstances, except under the conditions named in
the license during the continuance thereof.
(16) The parties agreed that the license should continue during the term of the patent or patents applicable to the license
and during the term of any reissues thereof.
1 (17) The place of the performance of the agreement was the
city of Utica, New York, and the agreement was to be construed and the rights of the parties thereunder determined according to the laws of New York.
(18) The consideration of the contract or license was one dollar, paid by each of the parties to'theother, and the covenants
contained therein to be performed by the other, and it applied
to and bound the parties therefo, their successors, heirs and assigns.
Schedule -A which followed contained a description of theparticular kinds of harrow which the defendant was authorized
to make and sell under the license. Schedule B contained a statement of the prices and terms of sale under the license, and it was

BMENT v. NATIONAL HARROW CO.
Statement of the Case.

therein stated that "A maximum discount of forty-two per cent
!nay be allowed on sales of harrows, frames and teeth in the following territory: All of the New England States, also States of
New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia and West Virginia. A maximum discount of forty-five
per cent may be allowed on all sales in the territory throughout the United States not mentioned above."
This contract or license was signed byj the president of the
National Harrow Company for the plaintiff, and A. 0. Bement,
president of the defendant.corporation, for the defendant.
The other license, callid Exhibit B, was in substance the same
as Exbibit A, excepting that the privilege of sale for the articles
manufactured was that portion of the territory embraced within
the United States lying soiuth, and west of Virginia, West Virginia and Pennsylvania, and there was some difference in the
machines which the defendant was authorized to manufacture
and sell under this license, and in regard to the prices to be
charged for those machines'not covered by the former contract
or license.
These two agreements were, as- stated, made parts of the
plaintiff's complaint, and the plaintiff then set forth various
alleged violations of the two agreements -on the part of the defendant, and claimed a recovery of a large amount of damages
under the provisions of the contracts, and prayed for an injunction restraining future violations and for a specific performance
of the contracts.
The plaintiff also alleged that the plaintiff's assignor, the New
York corporation, duly assigned to the plaintiff all its rights
and interests in regard to the subject-matter of the two contracts, and that the plaintiff, at the time of the commencement
of the action, was the lawful owner of all such interests and
rights, and was entitled to bring the action in'its own name.
To this complaint the defendant made answer, denying many
of its allegations and setting up certain other agreements which
it alleged had been made by the plaintiff and other parties, including defendant, and which, as averred, amounted to a combination of all the manufacturers and dealers in patent harrows,
to regulate their manufacture and to provide for their sale and

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statementof the Case.

the prices thereof throughout the United States. It was also in
the answer averred that such contracts had been pronounced to
be void by the Supreme Court of New York, and the contracts
now before the court were, as contended by defendant, but a
continuation and a part of the other contracts already declared
void, and that these contracts between the parties to this action
were also void. It also alleged that all of the various contracts
were in violation of the act of Congress, approved July 2,1890,
being chapter 647 of the first session of the Fifty-first Congress,
(26 Stat. 209,) entitled "An act to protect trade and commerce
against unlawful restraints and monopolies."
The case was referred to a referee to hear and decide, who,
after hearing the testimony, reported in favor of the plaintiff.
The material portions of his report are as follows:
"That for some time prior to the month of September, 1890,
the spring tooth harrow business was conducted by the following-named parties: D. C. & II. C. Reed & C6 mpany, of Kalamazoo, Mich.j G. B. Olin & Company, Perry and Canandaigua,
N. Y.; Chase, Taylor & Company, W. S. Lawrence, doing
business under the name of Lawrence & Chapin, both of Kalamazoo, Mich.; J. M. Childs & Company, of Utica, N.Y.; and
A. W. Stevens & Son, of Auburn, N. Y., who began the harrow
business in substantially the order named above.
"The first two above-named firms conducted their business
in separate portions or territory of the United States, under the
same United States letters patent, and the other firms began
their business in hostility to the same letters patent. The first
two firms began a number of patent lawsuits against the other
firms and their customers for infringement of patents. These
suits were vigorously prosecuted and the cdurt finally decided
the patents valid, and ordered an accounting of profits against
the firm of Chase, Taylor & Company, and W. S. Lawrence.
"Prior to September, 1890, the last four of the above-named
firms settled their disputes over patents with the.frst two firms,
and took licenses under their letters patent. Considerable sums
of money were paid in settlement of these disputes and rights;
and prior to said date, September, 1890, there was no other relation between the first two firms named, and the other parties

BEMENT v. NATIONAL HARROW CO.
Statement of the Case.

-

than that of licensor and licensee under United States letters
patent.
"In the year. 1890, and just prior thereto, other persons, firms
and corporations began the spring tooth harrow business and
other patent lawsuits followed: Suits were begun against the
defendanis herein, and against their customers purchasing their
spriig tooth harrows; and one case had gone to final decree, in
vhich: the defendant was ordered to acc6unt for profits and
damages; and an injunction had been granted in another suit.
Proceedings were pending upon an application for rehearing in
these cases.
"In September,. 1890, the six firms first above named decided
to organize a corporation known as the National Harrow Company of New York, with a view to transferring various United
States letters patent owned by the six firms r'espectively to said
corporation, and for the purpose of conducting the manufacture of some Part or portion of the material which entered into
their spring tooth harrow business.
"In the conduct of the spring tooth harrow business, the
harrows came to be known in the market as ' float spring tooth
harrows;' that name having been adopted to differentiate the
harrows from those known in the market as ' wheel harrows),'
which had frame bars and-curved spring teeth supported from
an axle above, Which axle had wheels at either end of the
diameter above thirty inches. The two classes of harrows were
differentiated, one being called a ' float ' and the other a ' wheel'
spring tooth harrow. The litigations had been wholly over the
'float' spring tooth'harrows.
"The members composing the first six firms, above named,
in the harrow business in: September, 1890, organized under the
laws of the State of .New York the 'National Harrow Compdny.' -That corporation was duly legally incorporated, and
after its -incorporation it received from the said six firms the
transfer of th'eir separat6 United States letters patent, license
cuntracts and privileges under 1atdts. The defendant's president, Arthur 0. Bemeit,-became and continued a director of
this corporation until its dissolution, wihich followed in a little
ove-a year.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

"This corporation entered into some contracts with spring
tooth harrow manufacturers, which were decided by the
Supreme Court of the State of New York to be illegal as against
public policy, on account of restraints contained in the contracts,
which extended -beyond the lifetime of the patents. That case
is reported in the New York Supplement, vol. 18, page 224.
Strait et al. v. Nfational Harrow Company et al.
"Immediately following this decision, all of the contracts
then in existence which were affected thereby were immediately
cancelled by the parties to such contracts.
"The defendant, E. Bement & Sons, in the fall of 1890, entered into a contract with the National Harrow Company,
looking to'the selling of its patents and rights under patents
relating to th6 spring tooth harrow business; but this contract
was abandoned, the conditions upon which it was executed not
having been complied with, the contract became and was wholly
void.
"The defendant had no contract with the National Harrow
Company until about June 16 or 17, 1891, at which time several
contracta were entered into between the defendant and the
National Harrow Company of New York. Among other contracts the defendant executed and delivered assignments in
writing of several United States letters patent and license rights
and privileges under United States letters patent, all of which
related to the defendant's float spring tooth harrow business.
Such contracts constituted an absolute sale of the property and
privileges thereby transferred, and the defendant agreed to accept in payriient thereof the paid-up capital stock of theNational
Harrow Company of New York, and the value of the rights
transferred were by agreement between the parties fixed and
determined by arbitration, under which arbitration the' defendant was awarded and the value was fixed at upwards of
$29,000. The defendant was dissatisfied with the amount of
the award, and such dissatisfaction and difference was afterwards adjusted by an agreement to issue to the defendant andthe defendant to accept an additional amount of $16,000 of said
capital stock. That by agreement, in the place of the said
capital stock of the -NewYork company, the defendant accepted

BEMENT v. NATIONAL HARROW CO.
Statement of the Case.

and agreed to take the stock of the plaintiff in this action, and
there has been issued to the defendant and the defendant has
received the capital stock of this plaintiff in an amount upwards
of $45,000 in payment for the property and rights sold and
transferred by the defendant to the National Harrow Company
of New York. That said upwards of $45,000 of stock was
issued to the president of the defendant for defendant's benefit,
and on said stock defendant has received several cash dividends.
"The transaction between the National Harrow Company of
New York and this defendant had, in June,' 1891, was intended
by the parties to be an absolute sale by the defendant to the
National Harrow Company of New York of the United States
letters patent and licenses under United States letters patent
relating to the float spring tooth barrow business conducted by
the defendant, and it. was founded on a good., valuable and adequate consideration mnoving between the parties.
"That; as a part pf such transaction, the National Harrow
Company of New York granted, issued and delivered to the
defendant the license contracts A and B, which are attached
to the complaint in this action and made a part thereof. Upon
the consummation of the transaction in June, 1891, the controversy over patents and infringements existing between the first
six firms named above, and the defendant and its customers,
was settled., The papers which were executed in June, 1891,
were all dated as of April 1, 1891, and were to take effect as
of that date. At the date of the execution and delivery of the
license contracts A and B, the National Harrow Company of
New York was the owner by assignment and purchase of a
large number of United States-etters patent, which it is-claimed
fully monopolized and covered the defendant's float spring-tooth
harrow business.
"The sale by the defendant of its letters patent, and license
rights and privileges to the National Harrow Company of New
York, and the signing and delivering of license contracts A and
B, were intended to and did, settle existing controversies with
reference to the rights of the National Harrow Company of
New York and the, defendant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.'

"I decide that the contract entered into in June, 1891, including, the contracts A and.B between the National Harrow
Company of New York and this defendant were and are good
and valid contracts, founded on adequate considerations and
were reasonable in their provisions; contracts A and B imposing no restraints upon the defendant beyond those which
the parties had a right, from the nature of the transaction, to
impose and accept.
9"In July, 1891, a corporation Was organized under the laws
of the State- of New Jersey, known and designated as the National Harrow Company, which corporation is the plaintiff in
this action. None of the parties organizing this corporation
were in.the spring tooth harrow business. The New Jersey
corporation was duly and legally organized in conformity with
the laws of that State, and was by those laws and its charter
authorized to purchase United States letters patent and to grant
licenses under United States letters patent and to conduct the
manufacturing business, and had a variety of other rights and
privileges under its charter and said statutes. -That this corporation,-the plaintiff, still is a legal and valid corporation, entitled to hold and enjoy such of its property as it now or may
hereafter own or acquire, and that it was not organized in hostility to any rule of public policy.
"That the National Harrow Company of New Jersey, this
plaintiff, through its duly constituted officers purchased from
the National Harrow Company of New York all of its various
United States letters patent,, and all contracts, licenses and
rivileges which the National Harrow Company of New York
then owned and possessed, and also purchased a part of its
other property, rights and privileges.
"That on the 9th of September, 1891, a formal transfer in
writing wes made from the National Harrow Company of
New York to the National Harrow Company of New Jersey
,of the property and rights sold as aforesaid by the former'company to the latter, which transfer was founded on a good, valnable and adequate -consideration moving between the parties,
and which transfer was sanctioned by the directors and stockholders of the New York corporation, and by the officers and

BEMENT v. NATIONAL HARROW CO.
Statement of the Case.

directors of the National Harrow Company of New Jersey,
this plaintiff, and separate assignments in writing were made
of the various United States letters patent from the New York
corporation to the New Jersey corporation.
"I decide that this transfer was in all respects legal and valid,
being- founded on a good and valuable consideration, and that
it vested in the plaintiff in this action all the rights, privileges
and benefits accruing to the New York corporation under its
contracts with the defendant, including contracts A and B,
'hich contracts have been slightly, modified by the parties as
to price and terms of sale.
"The defendant's president, Arthur 0. Bement, became a
director and an active manager of the plaintiff, and continued
as such down to September, 1893.
"The defendant made, nionthly verified reports to this plaintiff down to and in6luing the 8th of September, 1893, of the
harrows embraced in contracts A and B, by such reports stating the total harrows sold to be 13,900, on which defendant
paid to the plaintiff a royalty of $13,900.
"The National Harrow Company of New York and this
plaintiff have performed all of the stipulations and provisions
in the contracts entered into between the National Harrow
Company of New York and this defendant, including all the
provisions of contracts A and B, and the plaintiff is now ready,
willing and able to perform all of the stipulations and agreements to be performed on its part, -as assignee of the National
Harrow Company of New York.
"That the defendant, after having received and retained
large pecuniary benefits under the contracts, has failed, neglected and refused, and still fails, neglects and refuses to keep
and perform its contracts entered into, including the stipulations and provisions contained in contracts A and B, and since
September, 1893, it has wholly repudiated contracts A and B,
and refused to perform any of the stipulations contained therein
which it agreed to do and perform, and it has broken and violated all of the stipulations and agreements contained in'
cbntracts A and B which it agreed to do and perform."
The referee then states with some detail the various viola-.
VoL. CLxxxvI-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tions of the license agreements by the defendant, and finds the
defendant indebted to the plaintiff in the sum of over twenty
thousand dollars. He then continues as follows:
I "I decide that the plaintiff is a legal and valid corporation
authorized to enforce its rights in courts having jurisdiction,
and that all of the contracts in evidence were and are legal,.
valid and binding contracts, such as might reasonably be made
under the circumstances, founded upon an adequate consideration, and that they embodied no illegal restraints, and are not
repugnant to any rule. of public policy as in restraint of trade,
or tending to create a monopoly,_trust or any other illegal combination; and that the contracts entered into between the defendant and the National Harrow Company of New York,
including contracts A and B, are and were intended to be continuing contracts, and should be enforced according to their
true'intent and meaning as hereby interpreted."
The referee then held the plaintiff entitled to a judgmon
against the defendant, declaring the validity of the plaintiff corp'ration and its title to the contracts and their validity, and decreeing specific performance thereof and restraining future violations of the contracts'by the defendant. Judgment in accordance
with the relort was entered, from which the defendant appealed
to the appellate division of the Supreme Court.
Some'difficulties regarding the form in which the case was
presented to that court arose upon the argument, and it was
therefore suspended and the case sent back to the referee for a
resettlement, which was subsequently agreed upon by counsel
for the respective parties, who entered into a stipulation in regard to what was to be reviewed by the courts above, and,
among other things, it was agreed between counsel: "That
the foregoing record, as amended and corrected in this stipulatibn, contains all of the evidence given and proceedings had
before the referee material to the questions to be raised on this
appeal by the appellant, which questions to be raised by the
appellant on- this appeal are to -be only as follows." Those
questions are eight in number, the fourth of which is:
"Whether or not the contracts A and B are valid under the
act of Congress approved -July 2, 1890, chapter 64:7 of the first

BEMENT v. NATIONAL HARROW CO.
Opinion of the Court.

session of the Fifty-first Congress." This is the only Federal
question raised and appearing in the recordThe case was thereupon argued before the appellate division,
which reversed the judgment, and ordered a -new trial,- but it
did not state in its order of reversal that the judgment was reversed on questions of fact as well as of law. The plaintiff then
appealed to the Court of Appeals from the order granting a
new trial, and after argument it was held by that court that it
had no jurisdiction to review the facts, and that upon the findings of the referee there had been no error of law committed,
and consequently the Supreme Court was. wrong in reversing
the judgment. The court therefore reversed the judgment of
the Suprem6 Court, and affirmed the judgment entered upon
the report of the referee.
Afr. Clark C. Mood, X[r. Edward Cahill and .Y. Hlenry J
Cookingham for plaintiff in error.
.31r. Edwin; I

Risley for defendant in error.

MR.JUSTICE PECKHAI, after maling the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

In this court we are concluded by the findings of fact made
in a state court in a suit in equity, as well as in an action at
law. Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658, 666; srael v. Arthur, 152 U. S. 355; -Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S.188; ledricl v.
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fj Railroad iompany, 167 U. S.
673, 677.
The only Federal question raised 'in the record is as to the
validity of contracts A and B, with regard to the -act of Congress on the subject of trusts. Act df July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26
Stat. 209. That is a question of law plainly raised in the record,
and we are not precluded from its -consideration by any action
of the state courts. If, however, facts not found by the referee
are necessary for the purpose of conneoting those contracts with
others not found in such report, we cannot supply the omission
to find those facts., The contention of the defendant is that

OCTOBER TER31, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the two contracts A and B are in truth a part and continuation
of the agreements set forth. in the defendant's answer, and that
taken together they prove a purpose and combination on the
part of all the dealers in patented harrows to control their manufacture, sale and price in all portions of the United States, and
defendant avers that such a contrat or combination was and is
,void, not only as against public policy, ut also because it is a
violation of tlhe Federal statute upon the subject of trusts and
illegal combinations. Those former alleged contracts are not
mentioned in the report of the referee excepting, as he stated,
they had been declared void as against' public policy, and as
being in restraint of trade because they extended beyond the
life of the patents therein mentioned, and the'referee found that
following this decision all of the contracts then in existence,
which were affected thereby, were immediately cancelled by
the parties thereto.
The referee made no finding of any fact connecting the conttacts
A and B with prior contracts of a like nature including other
parties, as alleged in the answer of the defendant. The referee
did find, however, that the defendant had no contract with the
National Harrow C6mpany until June 16 or 17, 1891-, at which
time several contracts were entered into between the plaintiff
and the National Harrow Company of New York, and among
other contracts the plaintiff executed and delivered assignments
in writing of several United States letters patent and license
rights and privileges under United States letters patent, all of
'which relate to the defendant's float spring tooth harrow business.
He also found that such contracts constituted an absolute sale
of th6 property and privileges thereby transferred, and that the
defendant agreed to and did accept in payment thereof paid up
capital stock of the plaintiff. He further found that the transaction between the assignor of the plaintiff and the defendant
in June, 1891, was intended by the parties to be an absolute
sale by the defendant to such assignor of the United States letters patent and licenses under such patents relating to the float
spring tooth harrow business conducted by the defendant, and
that it was founded upon a good, valuable and adequate consideration between the parties; that as a part of such consider,

BEMENT v. NATIONAL HARROW CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ation the assignor of the plaintiff granted and delivered to the
defendant the license contracts A and B, heretofore spoken of,
and that upon the consummation of the transaction the controversy over patents and infringements existing between the
first six firms named in the referee's report and the defendant
and its customers was settled. The report also decided "that
the contract entered into in June, 1891, including the contracts
A and B between the National Harrow Company of New York
and this defendant were and are good and valid contracts,
founded on adequate consideratiois and were reasonable in
their provisions; contracts A and B imposing no restraints
upon the defendant beyond those which the parties had a right,
from the nature of the transaction, to impose and accept."
The omission of the referee to find from the evidence that
the contracts A and B were a continuation of former contracts
held to have been void, and that there were in fact other manufacturers of harrows who had entered into the same kind of contracts with plaintiff as those denominated A and B, and that
there was ageneral combination among the dealers in patented
harrows to regulate the sale and prices of such harrows, furnishes -no ground for this court to assume such facts. The contracts A and B are to be judged by their own contents alone
and construed accordingly.
The referee also decided that the plaintiff was a legal and
valid corporation, authorized to enforce its rights in courts having jurisdiction, and that all the contracts in evidence were and
are legal, valid and binding contracts, and suchas might reasonably be made under the circumstances, and were founded upon
a good, valuable and adequate consideration, and were reasonable in their provisions, and that they embodied no illegal restraints, and were not repugnant to any rule of public policy as
in restraint of trade, and were not intended to create a monopoly, trust or illegal combination, and that the contracts entered
into between the defendant and the National Harrow Company
of New York, including the contracts A and B, are, and were,
intended to be continuing contracts, and should be enforced according to their true intent and meaning as hereby interpreted.
When he speaks of all the contracts in evidence, the referee

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

plainly means all the contracts in evidence between the parties
to this action, for it was of such contracts only that he had been
speaking. There were, in fact, other contracts than those designated A and B between these parties, and such other contracts had been put in evidence, and previou~ly referred to by
the'referee. He, therefore, must have included what is termed
the escrow agreement in his finding, that all the agreemefits
made by defeudant with the plaintiffs were valid. That agreement is set forth in the margin.'
1" Escrow Agreement.
agreement,
made and entered into this 1st day of
memoranda
of
"This
April, A. D. 1891, by and between the National Harrow Company, a corporation of Utica, in the State of New York, and Edward Norris of the same
place; and E. Bement & Sons of Lansing, in the State of Michigan.
IIWhereas, the said National Harrow Company is the owner of a large
number of latters patent relating to float sprixig'tooth harrows, and is desirous of granting licenses thereunder to the following-named persons,
firms and corporations, to wit: Chas. H. Childs & Company, D. B. Smith
& Company, A. W. Stevens & Son, Childs & Jones, Syracuse Chilled Plow
Company, .Geo. W. Sweet & Company; Walker Manufacturing Company,
Taylor & Henry, the Herndeen Manufacturing Company, D. C. & H. C.
Reed & Company, L. C. Lull & Company, Williams Manufacturing Company, W. S. Lawrence, McSherry Manufacturing Company, D. 0. Everst &
-Company, E. Bement & Sons, Hench & Dromgold, Farmers' Friend Manufacturing Company; Eureka Mower Qompany.
"And whereas, the said National Harrow Company has placed in the
hands of said E. Norris in escrow, duly executed by it in duplicate, a certain
contract and license for each of said persons, firms and corporations hereinbefore named, to be by the said E. Norris immediately presented to each
of the above and foregoing named respective persons, firms and corporations, to be signed and executed by said respective persons, firms and corporations"Now, therefore, it is hereby understood and agreed by and between the
parties hereto, that as the said licenses and contracts, are signed and executed by the said respective persons, firms and corporations, they shall be
held by said Norris, in escrow, for both parties until such time as all of
said above-named persons, firms and corporations shall have signed, executed and delivered the same "tosaid Norris, whereupon they shall become
operative, and immediately thereafter the sid Norris shall deliver one of
the duplicates of each of said contracts and licenses to the said National
Harrow Company and the other duplicate thereof to the respective licensees who have signed the same, in person or by mail.
'But in case any of the above-named personsi firms and corporations

BEMENT v. NATIONAL HARROW CO.
Opinion of the Court.

There is no finding by the referee that this agreement was
ever signed by any one other than the parties to this action, or
that any other person received the licenses from and made contracts with the plaintiff similar to the ones entered into between
these parties. All that the referee finds is, that all, the contracts in evidence were legal, by which was meant, as already
stated, all the contracts in evidence between the parties to the
action, which were in existence and uncancelled. In the absence of any finding as to the escrow agreement having ,been
signed by others, it must be regarded as unimportant, and we
are brought back to the question whether these.contracts or
licenses, A and B, irrespective of any contracts not found by
the referee as in any way connected with, or forming a part
thereof, are void as a violation of the act of Congress.
The plaintiff contends in the first place that only the Attorney
General of the United States can bring an action under the
statute, excepting that by section 7 of the act any person injured
in his business or property, as provided for therein, may himself
sue in any Circuit Court of the United States, in the district in
shall neglect or refuse to sign, execute and deliver said respective contracts
and licenses on or before the 1st day of June next, then and in such case
said E. Norris shall, provided he shall be so directed, by a resolution duly
adopted by the board of trustees of said National Harrow Company, make
delivery of such of said contracts and licenses as have been signed and
executed as abcve provided, at which time said contracts and licenses shall
become operative, and in case the said National Harrow Company shall
conclude not to accept any less number than the whole of such respective
contracts and licenses, then and in such case th.e said Norris shall cancel
each of said contracts and licenses, and they shall be null and void.
"Witness the signatures of the parties.
"THE NATIONAL HARROW CO.,

By CHAS. H. CHILDS, Pres't.
"EDWARD NORRIS.
"E. BE31ENT & SONS,

By A. 0. BEMENT, Pres't.
"Received of E. Bement & Sons a license and contract executed between
the National Harrow Company and said E. Bement & Sons, which I agree
to hold and deliver in accordance with an agreement between the said
National Harrow Company and said E. Bement & Sons and myself, and
hereto attached.
"Dated this 1st day of April, 1891.
EDWARD NORRIS."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
,Opinion.of the Court.

which the defendant resides or is found. Assuming that the
,plaintiff is right so far as regards any suit brought under that
act, we are nevertheless of opinion that any one sued upon a
contract may set up as a defence that it is a violation of the act
of Congress, and if found to be so, that fact will constitute a
good defence to the action.
The first section of the act provides that "every contract,
combination in the form of trust, or otherwise, or conspiracy,
in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States,
or with foreign nations, is hereby declared to be illegal." Every
person making such a contract is deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction is to be punished by fine or by imprisonment, or both. As the statute makes the contract in
itself illegal, no recovery can be had upon it when the defence
of illegality is shown to the court. --The act provides for the
prevention of violations thereof, and makes it the duty of the
several district attorneys, under the direction of the Attorney
General, to institute proceedings in equity to prevent and restrain such violations, and it gives to any person injured in his
business or property the right to sue, but that does not prevent
a private individual wben sued upon a contract which is void
as in violation of the act from setting it up as a defence, and
we think when proved' it is a valid defence to any claim made
under a contract thus denounced as illegal.
This brings us to a consideration of the terms of the license
contracts for the purpose of determining whether they violate
the act of Congress. The first important and most material
fact in considering this question is that the agreements concern
articles protected by letters patent of the Government of the
United States. The plaintiff, according to the finding of the
referee, was at the time when these licenses were executed the
absolute owner of the letters patent relating to the float spring
tooth harrow business. It was, therefore, the owner of a monopoly recognized by the Constitution and by the statutes of
Congress. An owner of a patent has the right to sell it or to
keep it; to manufacture the article himself or to license others
to manufacture it; to sell such article himself or to authorize

BEMENT v.-NATIONAL HARROW CO.
Opinion of the Court.

others to sell it. As stated by Mr. Justice Nelson, in Wilson
v. Riousseau, 4 How. 646, 674, in speaking of a patent:
"The law has thus impressed upon it all the qualities and
characteristics of property for the specified period; and has enabled him to hold and deal with it the same as in the case of
any other description of property belonging to hinir, and on his
death it passes, with his personal estate, to his legal representatives, and becomes part of the assets."
Again, as stated by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, in Grant v.
Raymond, 6 Pet. 218, 241:
"To promote the progress of useful arts, is the interest and
policy of every enlightened government. It entered into the
views of the framers of our Constitution, and the power ' to
promote the progress of science dnd useful arts, by securing for
limited times to authors and inventors, the exclusive right to
their respective writings and discoveries,' is among those expressly given to Congress. This subject was among the first
which followed the organization of our Government. It was
taken up by the first Congress at its second session, and an act
was passed authorizing a patent to be issued to the inventor of
any useful art, etc., on his petition, ' granting to such petitioner,
his heirs, administrators or assigns; for any term not exceeding fourteen years, the sole and exclusive right and liberty of
making, using and vending to others to be used, the said invention or discovery.' The law further declares that the patent
shall be good and available to the grantee or grantees by force
of this act, to all and every intent and purpose herein contained.'
The amendatory act of 1793 contains 1he same language, and it
cannot be doubted that the settled purpose of the United States
has ever been, and continues to be, to confer on the authors of
useful inventions an exclusive right to their inventions for the
time mentioned in their patent. It is the reward stipulated for
the advantages derived by the public for the exertions of the
individual, and is intended as a stimulus to those exertions. The
laws which are passed to give effect to this purpose ought, we
think, to be construed in the spirit in which they have been
made; and to execute the contract fairly on the part of the United States, where the full benefit has been actually received:

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

if this can be done without transcending the intention of the
statute, or countenancing acts which are fraudulent or may
prove mischievous. The public yields nothing which it has not
agreed to yield; it receives all which it has contracted to receive. The full benefit of the discovery, after its enjoyment
by the discoverer for fourteen years, is preserved; and for his
exclusive enjoyment of it during that time the public faith is
pledged."
In Heaton-Peninsular Company v. Eureka Specialty Cormpany, 47 U. S. App. 146, 160, it is stated regarding a patentee:
"If he see fit, he may reserve to himself the exclusive use
of his invention or discovery. If he will neither use his device nor permit others to use it, he has but suppressed his own.
That the grant is made upon the reasonable expectation that
he will either put his -invention to practical use or permit others
to avail themselves of it upon reasonable terms, is doubtless
true. This expectation is based alone upon the supposition
that the patentee's interest will induce him to use, op' let others
use, his invention. The public has retained no other security
to enforce such expectations. A suppression can endure but
for the life of the patent, and the disclosure he has made will
enable all to enjoy the fruit of his genius. His title is exclusive, and so clearly ivithin the constitutional provisions in respect of private property that he is neither bound to use his
discovery himself nor permit others to use it. The dictum
found in Hoe v. Knap, 17 Fed. Rep. 204, is not supported by
reason or authority."
It is true that in certain circumstances the sale of articles
manufactured under letters patent may be prevented when
the use of suc article may be subject, within the several
States, to the control which they may respectively impose in
the legitimate exercise of their powers over their purely domestic affairs, whether of internal commerce or of police regulation.
Thus an improvement for burning oil, protected by letters
patent of the United States, was condemned by the state inspector of Kentucly as unsafe for illuminating purposes under
the statute requiring an inspection and imposing a penalty for

BEMENT v. NATIONAL HARROW CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the violation of the statute, and it was held that the enforcement of the statute was within the proper police powers of the
State, and that it interfered with no right conferred by the
letters patent. Pattersonv. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501.
Ther6 are decisions also in regard to telephone companies
operating under licenses from patentees giving thbm the right
to use their patents for the purpose of operating public telephone lines, but prohibiting companies from serving within
such district any telephone company, and it has been held in
the lower Federal courts- that such a prohibition was of no
force; that it was inconsistent with the grant, because a telephone company, being in the nature of a common carrier, was
bound to render an equal service to all who applied and tendered
the compensation fixed by law for the service; that while the
patentees were under no obligation to license the use of their
inventions by any public telephone company,.yet, having done
so, they were not at liberty to place restraints upon such a
public corporation which would disable it to discharge all the
duties imposed upon companies engaged in the discharge of
duties subject to regulation by law. It could not be a public
telephone company and could not exercise the franchise of a
common carrier of messages with such exceptions tp the grant.
See .Afissouri ex rel. &c. v. Bell Telephone Company, 23 Fed.
Rep. 539 ; State ex rel. &c.v. Delaware &c.Company, 47 Fed.
Rep. 683 ; and Delaware & Atlantic &c.Company v. -Delaware
ex rel. &c.,3 U. S. App. 30.
These cases are cited in the opinion of the court in the case
of Heaton-PeninsularCompany v. Eureka Specialty Company,
s1pra. Notwithstanding these exceptions, the general rule is
absolute freedom in the use or sale of rights under the patent
laws of the United States. The very object of. these laws is
monopoly, and the rule is, with few exceptions, that-any conditions which are not in their very nature illegal with regard to
this kind of property, imposed by the patentee and agreed to
by the licensee for the right to manufacture or use or sell the
article, will be upheld by the courts. The fact that the conditions in the contracts keep up the monopoly or fix prices does
not render them illegal.

OCTOBER TERII, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The contention that they do not affect interstate commerce,
is not correct. We think the licenses do by their terms and
by their plain meaning refer to, include and provide for interstate as well as other commerce. The contract called Exhibit
B provides for the manufacture at Lansing, Michigan, and for
the sale of the articles there made in territory lying south and
west of Virginia and West Virginia and Pennsylvania, and the
referee finds that a number of harrows have been sold under
that contract. The contracts plainly look to the sale, and they
also determine the price of the article sold, throughout the
United States, as well as to the manufacture in the State of
Michigan. As these contracts do, therefore, include interstate
commerce Within their provisions, we are brought back to the
question whether the agreement between these parties with
relation to these patented articles is valid within the act of
Congress. It is true that it has been held by this court that the
act included any restraint of commerce, whether reasonable or
unreasonable. United States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association,166 T. S.290; United States v. Joint T'affic Association, 171 U. S. 505; Addystone Pipe dc. Company v. United
States, 175 U. S.211. But that statute clearly does not refer
to that kind of a restraint of interstate commerce which may
arise from reasonable and legal conditions imposed upon the assignee or licensee of a patent by the owner thereof, restricting
the terms upon which the article may be used and the price to
be demanded therefor. Such a construction of the act we have
no doubt was never contemplated by its framers.
United States v. E. C. Kfnight Company, 156 U. S. 1, does
not bear upon the facts herein. That case related to a purchase
of stock in manufacturing companies, by reason of which the
purchaser secured control of a large majority of the manufactories of refined sugar in the United States. It was held by
this court that the Federal act relating to trusts and combinations affecting interstate commerce could not reach and suppress
the creation, of a monopoly in regard to the refining of sugar,
and that the manufacturing of a commodity bore no direct re.
lation to commerce between the States or with foreign nations.
It was said by Mr. Chief. Justice Fuller, for the court, while

BEMENT v. NATIONAL HARROW CO.
Opinion of the Court.

speaking of such manufacture: "Nevertheless it does not follow
that an attempt to monopolize, or the actual monopoly of, the
manufacture. was, an attempt, whether executory or consummated, to.monopolize commerce, even though, in order to dispose of the product, the instrumentality of commerce was necessarily invoked."
In these contracts provision is expressly made, not alone for
manufacture, but for the sale of the manufactured product
throughout the United States, and at prices which are particularly stated, and which the seller is not at liberty to decrease
without the assent of the licensor. Addyst6ne Pipe & Steel
Company v. United States, 175 U. S. 211, 238. These contracts
directly affected, not as a mere incident of manufacture, the
sale of the implements all over the .country, and the question
arising is whether the contracts which thus affect such sales are
void under the act of Congress.
On looking through these licenses we have been unable to
find any conditions contained therein rendering the agreement
void because of a violation of that act. There had been, as the
referee finds, a large amount of litigation between the many
parties claiming to own various patents covering these implements. Suits for infringements and, for injunction had been
frequent, and it was desirable to prevent them in the future.
This execution of these contracts did in fact settle a large
amount of litigation regarding the validity of many patents as
found by the referee. This was a legitimate and desirable result
in itself. The provision in regard to the price at which the
licensee would sell the article manufactured under the license
was also an appropriate and reasonable condition. It tended
to keep up the price of the implements manufactured and sold,
but that was only recognizing the nature of the property dealt
in, and providing for its value so far as possible. This the
parties were legally entitled to do. The owner of a patented
article can, of course, charge such price as he may choose, and
the owner of a patent may assign it or sell the right to manufacture and sell the rticle patented upon the condition that the
assignee shall charge a certain amount for such article.
It is also objected that the agreement of the defendant not

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

to manufacture or sell any other float spring tooth harrow, etc.,
than those which it had made under its patents before assigning
them to the plaintiff, or which it was licensed to manufacture
and make, under the terms of the license, except such other
style and construction as it may be licensed to manufacture and
sell by the plaintiff, is void under the act of Congress.
The plain purpose of the provision was to prevent the defendant from infringing upon the rights of others under other patents, and it had no purpose to stifle competition in the harrow
business more than the patent provided for, nor was its purpose
to prevent the licensee from attempting to make any improvement in harrows. It was a reasonable prohibition for the defendant, whb would thus be excluded from making such harrows
as were made by others who were engaged in manufacturing
and selling other machines under other patents. It would be
unreasonable to so construe the provision as to prevent defendant from using any letters patent legally obtained by it and
not infringing patents owned by others. This was neither its
purpose nor its meaning.
There is nothing which violates the act in the agreement that
plaintiff would not license any other person than the defendant to manufacture or sell any harrow of the peculiar style and
construction then used'or sold by the defendant. It is a proper
provision for the protection of the individual who is the licensee,
and is nothing more in effect than an assignment or sale of the
exclusive right to manufacture and vend the article. In brief,
after a careful examination of these contracts, we are unable to
find any provision in them, either taken separately or in connection with all the others therein contained, which would
render the contracts between these parties void as in violation
of the act of .Congress.
It must, however, be conceded that the escrow 'agreement
above set forth looks to the signing, by the parties mentioned
therein, of contracts simiilar to those between the parties to
this suit, designated A and B, and containing like conditions
relating to the patents respectively, owned by such parties.
But there is no finding by the.yeferee that such contracts were
in fact entered into by those other parties nor that they con-

MURPHY v. UTTER.
Syllabus.

stituted a combination of most, if not all, of the persons or
corporations engaged in the business concerning which the
agreements between the parties to this suit were made. If
such similar agreements had been made, and if, when executed,
they would have formed an illegal combination within the act
of Congress, we cannot presume for the purpose of reversing
this judgment, in the absence of any finding to that effect, that
they were made and became effective as an illegal combination.
As between these parties, we hold that the agreements A and B
actually entered into were not a violation of the act. We are
not called upon to express an opinion upon a state of facts not
found. Upon the fact' found there is no error in the judgment
of the Court of Appeals, and it must, therefore, be
Affirmed.
MR.

MR. JUSTICE GRAY and MR.JUSTICE
did not hear the argument and took no part in the decision of this case.
JUSTICE HARLAN,

WHITE

MURPHY v. UTTER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.

No. 388. Arguec larch 7, 10 1902.-flecided

May 19,1902.

By an act passed in 1887 the territorial legislature of Arizona constituted a
Board of Loan Commissioners for the purpose of refunding the territorial
indebtedness. In 1890, Congress passed an act approving and confirming the territorial act of 1887, "subject to future territorial legislation."
This act was a repetition of the territorial act with a few immaterial
changes and an additional section. Held : that the territorial act of 1887
was repealed by the act of 1890, and that the Board of Loan Commissioners still continued in existence, notwithstanding that the territorial legislature in 1899 repealed that portion of the act of 1887 constituting such
board.
Held, also, that the act of 1890 which declared the territorial act of 1887 to
be "subject to future territorial legislation," was intended to authorize
such new regulations concerning the funding act as future exigencies

