OCTOBER TERI, 1901.
Syllabus.

peals is quite full in regard to this claim, and we feel there is
no necessity in ourselves going over this particular ground.
After a careful consideration of the whole case, we are of
opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was
right, and it is, therefore,
A jirmed.
iMR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the argument and took no
.part in the decision of this case.

LANDER v. MERCANTILE BANK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 227. Argued April 18, 1902.-Decided June 2, 1902.

This suit was brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern Division of Ohio, Eastern District, to restrain the collection of
certain taxes levied by the officers of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, upon the
appellee bank. The grounds of the suit were that the acts of the taxing officers of said county were in violation of the " rights of th plaintiff
(appellee) and of its shareholders accorded to them by section 5219 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States, securing to said shareholders
a restriction of the rate and limit of taxes assessed upon their said shares
to that assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands-of individual
citizens of the State of Ohio." The bill alleged that the plaintiff (appellee) was a national bank, and stated the capital stock of the bank and the
number of shares into which it was divided; that its cashier made the
proper returns of the resources and liabilities of the bank to the county
auditor; that the latter fixed the value thereof, as required by section 27 6
of the Revised Statutes of the State, after deducting the assessed value
of the real estate of the bank, and transmitted a statement of his action,
and a copy of the report made by the cashier, to the state board of eqalization, for incorporated banks and that board, professing to act under
sections 2808 and 2809 of the Revisel Statut'es of the State, increased the
valuation of the shares without notice to the bank or to its shareholders,
and that the board was hence without jurisdiction to make such increase,
and "its action in respect thereto was void and of no effect." It was
averred ".that said state board of equalization knowingly and designedly
did fix a much higher per centum of valuation and assessment for taxation upon the shares of the plaintiff's capital stock than was assessed

LANDER v. MERCANTILE BAN.
Statement of the Case.
upon other moneyed capital in the bands of individual citizens of the
State of Ohio, and much higher than that fixed on other moneyed capital
in the hands of such citizens in said county of Cuyahoga and said city of
Cleveland." After the answer was filed, the case was referred to a master,
and upon the coming in of his report, and, after considering the exceptions of the parties to it, the court dissolved the injunction which had
been granted and dismissed the bill. That action was reversed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals and the cause remanded, with instructions to
enter a decree in favor of the complainant (appellee here). Thereupon
an appeal was taken. Held that the judgment of the Court of Appeals
should be reversed, and the judgment of the Circuit Court should be
affirmed.

THis suit was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the N6rthern Division of Ohio, Eastern District, to
restrain the collection- of certain taxes levied by the officers of
Cuyahoga County, Ohio, upointhe appellee bank. The grounds
of the suit were that the acts of the taxing officers of said county
were in violation of the "rights of the plaintiff- (appellee) and
of its shareholders accorded to them by section 5219 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, securing to said shareholders a restriction of the rate and limit of taxes assessed upon
their said shares to that assehsed upon other moneyed capital in
the hands of individual citizens of the State of Ohio."
The bill alleged that the plaintiff (appellee) was a national
bank, and stated the capital stock of the bank and the number
of shares into which it was divided-; that its cashier made the
propel' returns of the resources and liabilities of the bank to the
county auditor; 'that the latter fixed the value thereof, as required by section 2766 of the Revised Statutes of the State,
after deducting the assessed value of the real estate of the bank,
and transmitted a statement of his action, and a copy of the
report made by the cashier, to the state board of equalization,
for incorporated banks and that board, professing to act under
sections 2808 and 2809 of the Revised Statutes of the State, increased the valuation of the shares without notice to the bank
or to its shareholders, and that the board was hence withoutjurisdiction to make such increase, and "its action in respect
thereto was void and of nQ effect." •
It was averred "that said state board of equalization know-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

ingly and designedly did fix a much higher per centum of
valuation and assessment for taxation upon the shares of the
plaintiff's capital stock than was assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens of the State of Ohio,
and much higher than that fixed on other moneyed capital in
the hands of such citizens in said county of Cuyahoga and said
city of Cleveland."
Section 2730 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio was set out in
the bill, which defines "credits" to be the excess of certain legal
claims and demands over and above legal and bona fide debts,
and it wai averred "that a large amount of moneyed capital in
the hands of individual citizens of the State of Ohio invested
in promiss6ry notes and other legal obligations, securities, claims
and demands, amounting to several hundred millions of dollars,
is by the aforesaid provision, allowing a deduction of legal bona
fide debts to be made therefrom, expressly exempted from taxation."

Figures were given in support of the allegation as to individuals, "building and loan incorporations," which, it was alleged, "were empowered and authorized by said statute to
borrow and loan money. and to do a general banking business
with their members and depositors," and savings banks, in
which it was alleged that there was on tine deposit an amount
exceeding the entire capital stock of all the national banks in
the State, which deposits were credits belonging to the depositors from which legal bona fide debts were authorized by the
stattite to be deducted in 6.rder to ascertain the taxable value of
said deposits.
That on account of such exemptions unlawful discrimination
was practiced against moneyed capital invested in national
banks, and that the tax lawfully assessed and paid on its shares
by complainant amounted to upwards of twenty per cent of the
income which arose from its operations.
That each of the shareholders was indebted in an amount of
bona ftde debts, "exclusive of the exceptions allewed by the
statute, to an amount equal to the actual and par value of the
number of shares specified opposite their respective names, and
which said excess of said debts over said credits as aforesaid,,*

LANDER v, MERCANTILE BANK.

461

Statenint of the Case.

the said shareholders above named were entitled to have deducted from the assessed value of said shares so severally owned
by them."
Proof of this indebtedness was submitted to the county auditor,.but he refused to make any deduction, and threatened to
collect taxes on such shares with said deductions disallowed.
That the right to have such deductions made was adjudicated
in a suit brought by plaintiff on the 8th of April, 1887, against
Horatio N. Whitbeck, the predecessor of the defendant, as
treasurer of Cuyahoga County, and also in other suits brought
.against other predecessors of the defendant, in which said suits
the issues were the same as those in the present suit, and that
each of the defendants in said suits "represented the same interest, sustained the same relation, was clharged with the same
duties to the public as the present defendant," and in which the
issues determined and adjudged "involved the same subjectmatter, and that the judgments therein given are wholly unreversed and still in full force and operation."
The bill prayed for an injunction of the collection of any of
the taxes which were charged on the duplicate tax list *of the
county, "including those levied on such unlawful increase of
valuation by such state board of equalization for incorporated
bank shares, permitting, however, said treasurer, without prejudice to his rights in the premises, to receive the amounts so
as aforesaid tendered by the plaintiff to him."
The answer admitted some of the averments of the bill and
tendered issue on those upon which complainant based the
charge of illegality of and' discrimination, in -thp assessment.
As to the action of the auditor the answer alleged that "the
auditor was greatly deceived and mislead by complainant's
statement of the true value of its returns to him for taxation,
and that the returns so made did not exceed forty (40) per cent
of the actual value of said proper.ty and assets of complainant;
when in truth and in fact the said complainant should have returned the same at its true value in money." And also averred
"that said board- of equalization .began work at the time the
statutes require, and continued its work continuously, but for
want of the necessary information it could not complete its
work earlier than December 6, 1897."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

In an amendment to the answer the deception of complainant cashier as to the true value of the shares was again averred,
-andthe justness and legality of the action of the state board of
equalization were circumstantially asserted.
As a second defence it was alleged that section 167 of the
materia, and was a part
Revised Statutes of Ohio was in .Pain
and
of
the machinery for the
the
State
of
taxing
system
of the
State,
and provided that
of-the
collection of the public revenue
when the amount of taxes to be remitted exceeded $100, as in
the case at bar, that the board of revision provided for by said
section, consisting of the governor, auditor of State and attorney general, was constituted an appellate board to the action
of the state board of equalization, of shares of incorporated
banks, and had the power and authority and jurisdiction to
review, revise and correct all excessive, illegal or erroneous
assessments, fines or judgments that, might have been made by
said board of equalization; that complainant, not having appealed to such boaid of revision, And by refusing to submit to
such board its "cause and the matters in dispute, had not exhausted its usual and ordinary remedy at law," and had not
exhausted the remedies provided. by the statutes of Ohio, and
hence the court had "no jurisdiction in equity to heat and determine said cause, and said plaintiff bank should not be permitted to further prosecute its action herein."
The case was referred to a master, and upon the coming in
of hig report, and, after considering the exceptions of the parties to it, the court dissolved the injunction which had been
granted and dismissed the bill. 98 Fed. Rep. 465. That actiou was reversed by the Circuit-Court of Appeals and the cause
.remanded, with instructions to enter a decree in favor of the
complainant (appellee here). 109 Fed. Rep. 21. -Thereupon
this appeal was taken. Other facts are stated in the opinion.
Most of the sections otthe Revised Statutes of Ohio on the subject of taxation, which are applicable to the questions involved,
are printed at length in 173 U. S., page 209, et 8eq. Other sections are inserted in the margin1 or referred to in the opinion.
1 "SFc. 2807. The said boards (certain city boards,) shall hear complaints and equalize the assessment of all personal property, moneys and

LANDER v. MERCANTILE BANK.
Counsel for Parties.

.r. J.7-M. Sheet and Mi. Smith W. Bennett for appellant.
.Mr'. P. H. Kaiser was on their brief.
A[r. f. I. Boynton for appellee.
MiR.

JUSTCE MXOKENNA,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
credits, new entries and new structures returned for the currentyear, by the
township assessors and'county auditors; and they shall have power to add
to, or deduct from the valuation of personal property, or moneys or credits,
of any person returned by the assessor or county auditor, or which may
have been omitted by them, or to add other items upon such evidence as
shall be satisfactory to the said boards, whether said return be made upon
oath of each person or upon the valuation of the assessor or county auditor, but when any addition shall be ordered to be made to any listveturned
under oath, a statement of the facts upon which such addition was made
shall be entered on the journal of the*boards: Provided, That no such
addition shall be made to such list returned under oath without the board
having first given reasonable notice to- the person or persons whose personal property is sought to be added to or the valuation thereof increased,
to appear before said board at a time and place to be fixed by said board,
and show cause why such addition should not be made, or why such valu•
ation should not be increased; •
"SEc. 2808. The governor, auditor of State and attorney general shall
eonstitute a board for the equalization of the shares of incorporated banks,
and for this purpose they shall meet on the third Tuesday of June, annually, at the office of the auditor of State, and examine the returns of,
said banks to the county auditors, and the value of said shares as fixed by
the county auditors as the same shall have been reported by the county
auditors to the state auditor."
"SEc. 2809. Said board shall hear complaints and equalize the value of
said shares according to the rules prescribed by this title for valuing and
equalizing the values of real and personal property, and if the judgment of
the board, or a majority of them, the aggregate value of all the bank property so reported to said board by the county auditors is below its true value
in money, they may increase or diminish the value of said shares by such
per cent as will equalize said shares to their true value in money: Provided,
That said board shall not increase or reduce the grand aggregate value of
bank shares as returned by the several county auditors by more than twenty
(20) per centum.
"SEe. 2810. The auditor of State shall, fortlwith after such equalization
shall have been made, certify to the auditors of the proper counties the
valuation, as equalized, of the shares of banks siEuated in such counties,
which valuation shall be put on the proper tax list."

464"

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court

The Circuit Court of Appeals based its opinion on two quesions: (1) The jurisdiction of the state board of equalization for
incorporated banks to increase6, without notice to the bank, the
valuation fixed by the county auditor on the shares of its stock;
(2) the fact of the former adjudications as determining the right
to reduce the valuation of the shares by taking bona, # indebtedness therefrom. Counsel for appellee objects to a broader
discussion byappellant's counsel of the case than those questions present, urging they were the only ones made by, the appellee in the Circuit Court of Appeals. In view of this insistence,
and as appellee took the case to the latter court, we may make
them the grounds of our discussion and decision, although the
first question was not passed upon by the Circuit Court.
The findings of the master sustained the allegations of the
bill as to the action of the auditor, and that the board of equalization met as required by section 2808 of the Revised Statutes
of Ohio, and transacted no business except to adjourn "at the
call of the secretary." It met again on the 10th and 20th of
September, but took no action.as to the valuation of the shares
of plaintiff. " On the 4th December, 1897," (the master
found,) "the members of said board next meet at the call of
the state auditor to consider unfinished business. The record
of the meetings of said board, as originally, made by the secretary, shows that at the meeting held June 15,1897, September 10,
1897, September 20, 1897, the ' board adjourned.' At the
ieeting held December 4, 1897, the secretary was directed to
amend the record asto each of said above-named adjournments
by adding these words: ' Amended to read, "adjou r ned to.meet
at the call of the-president of the board, Asa S. Bushnell, governor of the State,"' and thereupon said board adjourned sine
.die. Some time after December 4, 1897, the record was
amended by the secretary as directed by said board. At none
of said adjournments was a day named for the next meeting.
":Eighth. At said meeting on December 4, 1897, without
complaint froni any one, the members of said board, assuming
to act as .a board, increased the valuation of the shares of the
plaintiff from $519,320.00, so fixed by the county auditor, to
$642,320.00, and on the 6th day of December certified said

LANDER v. M1ERCANTILE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

valuation to the auditor of, Cuyahoga County, to be by him
placed on the treasurer's duplicate, which was accordingly done;

that neither of said meetings of the members of said board foll9wing the third Tuesday of June, 1897, was called by said secretary, and no notice or information of any kind or opportunity
to be heard was given by said board, its secretary or any other
person to said bank, or any of its officers, directors or shareholders of any or eithef of said meetings, except such as the
statute gave them,,to wit, section 2808, Revised Statutes, and
succeeding sections; nor did they, or either of them, have any
notice of any of said meetings or appear thereat, and the first
information that said bank or any of its shareholders had or
received of any action of the board or of the purpose to increase
the value of the shares so fixed by the auditor was on the 7th
day of December, 1897, after the action of the board was had
and such information was conveyed by letter from the auditor
of the county to the cashier of the plaintiff, notifying him of
the completed action bf the board; that thereupon, said bank
and its shareholders, through the officers and agents of the
bank duly authorized, applied to the members of said board for
a hearing, and was notified that two of the members of said
board were out of, the State, and that December 28 was as early
as the bank officers could be received; that on said day the officers of said bank, on behalf of said shareholders duly authorized, met the members of said board at Columbus, and made
application for a hearing respecting the valuation of said shares
and the action of said board, and notified said members of said
board that such increase made on the shares of said bank was
excessive and unwarranted, and protested against the same, but
said hearing was denied, the members of said board declaring
that the board had adjourned sine die and could' nbt reconvene
as a state board of equalization for banks to consider any claim
or application respecting the value of said shares.
"At the time the persons who had composed the state board
of equalization for banks, and who are the same persons required to act under section 167 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio,
offered to convene and organize under said section 167 .to consider the case of the various plaintiff banks at such time as
voL. cLxxxvi-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

might be convenient for the representatives of the Cleveland
banks to appear. Some doubt was expressed by some of the
members of the committee that the board would not have the
power under section 167 to afford as full relief as the board
of equalization, and only one of the Cleveland banks appeared
before the board when organized under section 167, viz., the
First National Bank; the others declined to appear.
"Ninth. That the said auditor of said county of Cuyahoga,
upon the receipt of the 'certificate from said state board of
equalization, entered said valuation of $642,320.00 upon the
tax duplicate of said county for the year 1897, and assessed
against the same taxes at the rate of 3.03 cents on each dollar,
and which *amounted on said valuation to $19,462.30. The
taxes on said bank shares at the said rate of 3.03 on each dollar, if assessed on -the valuation of $519,320.00, as fixed by
the auditor of Cuvahoga County, would have amounted to the
sum of $15,735.39."
As conclusion of law the master reported that the increase
made by the board of equalization was void for want of notice
to the bank or its shareholders.
The Circuit Court of Appeals concurred in the legal conclusions of the master upon the ground that "it is an elementary principle of law that tribunals vested with the power to
affect the property of citizens must act with notice," and in
the light of that principle considered the statutes of Ohio, and
construed them to require the state board of equalization to
give notice to persons to be affected by its action. That is,
as we understand, notice other than the statute gives by designating the time and place of the meeting of the board.
The court deduced its conclusion from the provisions of
section 2809 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio. It is there provided that "said board (board of equalization) shall hear complaints and equalize the value of said shares according to the
rules prescribed by this title, and for valuing and equalizing
the values of real and personal property." The title referred
to is Title 13, and turning to it we find quite an elaborate
system. Many boards of equalization are constituted. There
are annual county boards, annual city boards, annual state

LANDER v. MERCANTILE BANKOpinion of the Court.

boards for railroads and for banks, decennial state, county,
and city boards, and the duties of all the boards are carefully
prescribed. In the sections constituting some of these boards
there are references to sections constituting other boards. For
instance, in section 2804, providing for a county board of equalization, there is this provision: "Said board shall have power
to hear complaints, and to equalize the value of all real and
personal property, moneys and credits, within the county, and
shall be governed by the rules prescribed for the government
of decennial county boards for the equalization of real property: provided, . .

the; annual county board shall not

increase or reduce the valuation of any real estate, except upon
reasonable -noti4ce to all persons directly interested, and an opportunity for a full- hearing of the question involved." The
rules referred to are contained in section 2814, and pertain
strictly to producing uniformity of valuation. In other words,
the board is enjoined to raisa or-reduce the valuations returned
in order to make them confQrm to the standard-of valuation
prescribed by the statute. There is a limitation upon the
power of the board with which,, we are not concerned. The
board afterwards sits as a board of revision.
Again, section 2705 provides for a city board of equalization,
and it is given all the "powers," and is to be "governed by the
rules, provisions and limitations prescribed in the next preceding section for the annual county board." Section 2804, suprra. So, again; in section 28Q5 certain state boards are given
"all the powers. provided by law for decennial county boards
for the equalization of real property, and shall be governed by
the rules prescribed for such decennial county boards for equalizing the valuations returned by district assessors." These careful provisions for equalization of valuation seems to have been
caused by the command of the constitution of the State that
taxation should be by "uniform rule," and, we think, furnished
the key to the meaning of section 2809. In execution of the
constitution of the State that section defined and enjoined the
powers of the board in the equalization of values, and did not
intend to require personal notice to shareholders of the exercise
of those powers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of he Court.

We agree with the Court of Appeals that some notice was
necessary to be given, and the question occurs, did the statute
give notice by fixing the time of the meeting of the board?
It seems to be conceded that the statute did do so as to the first
meeting of the board, and that such notice would have been
sufficient as to subsequent adjournments if they had been made
to days certain.
In the case of Hamilton v. Dempsey, 20 Ohio St. 168, the
Supreme Court of Ohio decided that the law of the State which
fixed the time and place of meeting of a board of equalization,
but which provided for no other notice,*nevertheless gave notice to every citizen whose property, real or personal, had been
returned for taxation.
In State ex rel. v. Jones, Auditor, 51 Ohio St. 492, the same
proposition was affirmed in passing upon the law providing for
the taxation of the property of express, telegraph and telephone
companies. It-was contended, and we quote from the opinion
of the court"The property of the express company, it is alleged, "wastaken
without due course of process of law in this, that the act in
question does not provide for any notice to the company, nor
for a hearing by the board of appraisers and assessors, nor for an
app6aL to any superior authority for the correction of illegal,
erroneous or excessive valuations."
Replying to the contention, the-court said:
"'The law itself states. the time when the board shall meet,
and the express company could not ignore the time of meeting.
The meetings of the board are not secret, and the company
had a right to be present and explain the statement rendered
of its property and the value thereof. Indeed, without notice
from the board, or by the terms of the law, the company would
have been unable to make thereturn prescribed by the statute.
And of the company's return it may be said, in the language
of the opinion in the _entueky Railroad Tax cases, 115 U. S.
321: ' This return, made by the corporation through its officers,
is the statement of its own case, in all the particulars that enter
into the question of the value bf its taxable property, and may
be verified and fortified by such explanations and proofs as it
may see fit to insert.'"

LANDER v. MERCANTILE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

The court also cited The State Railroad Tax cases, 92 U. S.

575.
In the latter cases, it was claimed that the state board of
equalization had no power to increase the assessment or value
of railroad property reported by the companies to the state
auditor and by him to the board without notice to the companies, and for want of such notice "the whole assessment and
the levy of taxes" became void. The court said, by -Mr. Justice Miller: "It is hard to believe that such a proposition can
be seriously mad-e." After pointing out the "absurdity" of
the claim, he added: "Nor is there any hardship in the matter.
This board has its, time of sitting fixed by law. Its sessions
are not secret. No obstruction exists to the appearance of any
one before it to assert a fight or redress a wrong; and, in the
business of assessing taxes, this is all that} can be reasonably
asked." See also .lagar v. Reclamation Dist-rict, 111 U. S.
701; Palmer v. ffel3alon, 133 U. S. 660; -Merchants' Bank
v. Pennsylvania,167 U. S. 461.
We do not think the principle of those cases is affected by
an adjournment of the Ohio board without. fixing a date of
meeting. How were the rights of the bank affected ,and to
what inconvenience was it put? It did not appear at the first
meeting of the board. It rested on the evidence it had returned
to the-auditor, and it knew that the report it had made to the
comptroller of the State would be before the board, and it knew
also the duties and power of the board. The board was a public tribunal, open to be invoked, and charged with duties, and
necessarily subject to adjournments. What it had done the
bank could have easily ascertained, and as, easily what it contemplated doing. An inquiry would have ascertained both.
By the exertion of a very trifling trouble the bank would have
been informed of every meeting of the board.
2. -The master's report on the claim of resjudicat&was as
follows:
"The master finds the issues .made by the bill and answer,
reli.ting to the former adjudications of the question of the right
to deduction of legal bonafide indebtedness of the stockholders
from the value of their shares in determining their value for

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court

taxation, with the defendant; that such fact or right was not
directly involved in the actions set up in the bill and it was not
therein by said courts adjudicated and decided, and the fact
carried into judgment in favor of said bank, that its stockholders
were entitled to said deductions of indebtedness from the value
of their shares, under the same legislation now existing on the
subject, both state and national, and that said judgments are
not in full force and effect, as against said defendant."
The Circuit Court concurred with the master. The court,
after expressing that its impressions at the oral argument had
been to sustain the plea of former adjudication, said:
"Looking into the bill, however, in the former case, and after
an examination of the case of .YationaZ Bank of Wellington v.
Ohapman, I find that, in order to support, the averments of the
bill, it was necessary in that case for the complainant to rely,
not only upon the statute of Ohio defining credits, but also on
its practical operation in exempting moneyed capital in ,the
hands of individuals in Ohio from taxation. The practical operation of a law of that character., to show how much, if any, discrimination there is, is a question of fact to be determined upon
the evidence."
And further:
"The adjudication, therefor, upon which the complainant
relies, is an adjudication, not of law, but of fact; not of the
fact at issue in the.present'case, but of the fact as to the practical
operation of the law at the time of that adjudication, to wit, in
1887, 1893, and in 1894."
The Circuit Court of Appeals reviewed the Whitbeck case,
127 U. S. 193, and considered its interpretation by this court
in NationaZ Bank of Wellington v. Chapman, 173 U. S. 205.
From that review the court declared that it was not "prepared
to say that the judgment in that case was resjudicataas to the
rights of complainant's stockholders, to deduct their debts from
their shares of national bank stock." But to the other adjudications the court, expressed a differerit view and held them to
be prior and conclusive' adjudications of the issue now involved.
In other words, we understand the court to decide, that in the
former cases unlawful discrimination was made by the Ohio

LANDER v. MERCANTILE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

statute, "and that it had been adjudicated therein (in the cases
pleaded) that national bank shareholders were entitled to deduct their debts from the value of their shares for the purpose
of taxation," and that the adjudication should prevail as an
estoppel against the appellants, notwithstanding the statute has
been subsequently construed not of itself to work such discrimination. The conclusion is claimed to be sustained by the decision of this court in New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank. 167 U.
S. 371.
A consideration of the records in the pleaded cases becomes
necessary.
In the W/hitbee case the plaintiff (appellee here) averred that
it was a bank and had been discriminated against; that its
cashier had made reports to the taxing officers according to law;
the auditor _pretended to proceed in fixing value of its shares in
accordance with section 2766 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio,
and that the value placed by him thereon was knowingly in
excess of the value fixed in said county on other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of the Stare, city and
county. The state board of equalization assumed, and pretended
to comply, with sections 2808 and 2809, and examined the report of the cashier and return of the auditor, and pretended to
equalize -said shares to their true value in money, and fixed their
valuation at $195,77-.76.
The further action of the board was described as'pretended
with the design, and the execution of the design, of placing an
-excessive value on the shares; that a.large part of the stock .of
the bank was invested in United States securities and the lawful money thereof, and the tax levied ard assessed was in violation of law and unauthorized and void.
The requirements of the constitution of the State were cited
and the restriction of the taxation of national bank shares by
the Revised Statutes of the United States was stated.
The definition of credits .by section 2730 was .given, and it
was averred that the law required persons who listed property
for taxation to set forth their credits as defined; that a large
part of moneyed capital in the hands of individuals, which was
invested in notes, obligations and credits, were, by the provi-

-OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

sions allowing the deduction of bona fde debts, exempted from
taxation, which mad6 a discrimination against national bank
shares in violation of section 5219 of the Revised Statuites of the
Qjnited States.
• The names of the shareholders were set out, and it was averred
that they were indebted in an amount in excess of credits equal
to the, value of their respective shares. That at the time of the
return and statement to the auditor the fact of such indebtedness was not known, -norwas there opportunity given the shareholders to deduct such indebtedness, nor was there provision
made for the deduction of such indebtedness from the value of
the shares, but before the taxes became due proof of the indebtedness was tendered and a demand made for its reduction. The
proof and demand were refused, and the payment of the whole
tax insisted on. The illegality of the taxes was asserted for the
following reasons:
1. Because in violation of the act of Congress under which
the bank was incorporated.
2. The laws of Ohio permitted the owner of credits to deduct
therefrom his bona fide debts, and denied such right to the
"owner of capital 9tock" of the bank, and required him to list
"" the whole number of shares owned by him and not simply the
excess of the value of said shares over his indebtedness." A
discrimination .was hence averred to result from the taxation of
such shares at much greater rate than was assessed upon other
moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens.
3. The property of the bank was not valued and taxed as the
property-of individuals, nor was equality preserved in the valuation of the shares as compared with other property in the locality, but the valuation was twice as high, while the rate of levy
was the same.
4. Illegality of the- action of the board of equalization under
the state laws.
5. The taxation of the shares was at a greater rate than was
assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individuals.
6. That by the proceedings had in the assessment and levy
of the taxes had the effect to deprive the bank and its share-

LANDER v. MERCANTILE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

holders, "1
both in the manner of valuation and equalization, of
all benefit of the constitution and general laws of the State, by
which only uniformity in the buridens of taxation upon all description of property could be secured, to take from them the
security afforded by the limitations of the acts of Congress, and
to impose upon them such excessive exactions as to make the
franchise granted by said act comparatively valueless."
There were averments of grounds of relief in equity which
we need not quote.
The respondent filed a demurrer to the bill, which was overruled. An answer was then filed, which denied the allegations
of the bill, from which it was claimed discrimination against
the complainant and its shareholders resulted.
The folloiiing are quotations from the answer: The defendant denies "that any of the shareholders of said banking association, at the times named in said bill of complaint, were indebted or owing to others of bonafute debts, a sum in excess of
the credits from which, under the laws of Ohio, he was entitled
to deduct said debts to an amount equal to the value of his said
shares or any part thereof." He denies that either of said shareholders was then indebted in any sum whatever, or that, even
if any of them was so indebted as claimed in said bill of complaint, he is thereby entitled to deduct the excess of such indebtedness. over his credits from the assessed value of his said
shares, or that for any reason said shares of stock should not
have been placed on the tax duplicate and no tax assessed thereon. This defendant denieg-the averment in said petition that
neither of said shareholders authorized any one to 'list his said
shares for him. He denies that it was necessary for said shareholdeis so to do. . . . That any sum whatever should be
deducted from the valuation of the shares of the capital stock
owned by said shareholders named in said bill of complaint.
This defendant further denies that fhe taxes so levied and assessed on the shares of.said complainant's stock are, for the reasons alleged in said bill of complaint, or for any reason, unjust,
illegal'or void."
A special master was appointed" to exarm'ine the evidence and
record on file and to report who, if any, of the shareholders of

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the complainant, on the day preceding the second Monday of
October, 1885, had bona ftde indebtedness which should have
been deducted from the valuation of the shares."
The master reported "that having examined the evidence and
heard the claim of counsel, he finds and reports that all the
shareholders are entitled to the deductions as charged in the
bill, except the following, who should be taxed for the amount
stated, viz.: E,R. Perkins had credits subject to taxation above
his indebtedness on the day named to the sum of $4374.40; C.
L.Murfry had credits subject to taxation above his indebtedness
on the day -named-to the sum of $724; Robert L. Chamberlain
had credits 'subject to taxation above his indebtiedness on the
day named td-the sum of $4448; James Parmelee had credits
subject to taxation above his indebtedness on the day named to
the sum of $113.60-; James Barnett had credits subject to taxation above his indebtedness on the day named to the sum of
$17,792."

A decree was entered in accordance with the finding, and recited that the court found all the allegations of the bill to be
true except as to the three stockholders mentioned bythe inaster. Except as to them, the respondent and his-successors in
office were enjoined from collecting the taxes remaining unpaid.
This decree was afterwards by consent vacated, and two-questions certified to this court. The only one with 'whichwe are
concerned was as follows:
"Whether the taxation of national bank shares in the State
of Ohio inthe year 1885, without permitting the shareholder
to deduct from the assessed value of hisshares the amount of
his 6onaftde indebtedness existing on the Wednesday next preceding the second Monday in May in 1885, and on the day prec~ding the second Monday in April, 1885, is a discrimination
forbidden by the act of Congress, the said shareholder not having deducted said bontjde indebtedness from any credits owned
by him at either of said dates."
In the case against Kimberly, treasurer, the pleadings were
substantially the same, as in the TAitbeck -case, ahd the following judgment was entered:
"The court further find that there should be deducted from

LANDER v. MERCANTILE BANK.

475

Opinion of the Court.

said first valuation the sum of $169,235, being, the amount on
which the particular' shareholders named in said bill of complaint aie not taxable, the same being less in amount and value
than their bonajfdedebts from which they are entitled to have
the same deducted, leaving the sum of $380,670, which is heteby
declared to be the true valuation of the shares of said bank taxable under the act of Congress for said year 1888."
In the ShieZds cases, (there were two,- respectively numbered 5122 and 5127,) the bills on-the merits were the same as
in the Whitbeck case, and the lVkitbeck case was pleaded as a
prior adjudication of the right of. the shareholders of complainant to deduct their bonaJfe debts from the value of the shares
of stock. Th e bill ii. No. 5122 alleged that "in said suit ( WAitbeck suit) this complainant alleged by its bill the refusal by the
then auditor of said county, to allow a deduction of bona jFid
debts of the shareholders from the value of shares of stock of
said complainant owned in large part by the same stockholders
as those above named, and in which action said treasurer'of
said county, admitting said refusal to allow said deduction so
joined issue as to present the question of the right of said owners
of said shares, to said deduction, in view of the laws of Ohio,
the said laws being the same as the present laws of the State
and those under which the taxing officers of said county acted
in 1892 and 1893, in making assessments and in refusing deductions to be made of bona fide debts of stockholders from the
valuation of said shares; and the complainant says that upon
the issue so joined the said eurt at its April term, A. D. 1887,
held and determined that said shareholders were by law entitled'
to said deduction of bona.Ygde debts from the value of their said
shares, to an equal amount fixed for taxatioh'." The same allegations were substantially made in case' No. 5127.
A demurrer was ffled to the bill in No. 5122, which was overruled, and the respondent electing to stand by his demurrer,-the
following judgment was entered:
"The parties appearing by.counsel, this cause came on for
bearing,.and by consent of the parties the judgment or orderpro.
confe8o heretofore entered in said case, is hereby vacated, and
the respondent has leav to demur to said complaint; and there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

upon came the respondent and demurred to the bill of complaint;
and the cause came on for hearing upon said demurrer and was
argued by counsel; on consideration whereof it was ordered,
adjudged and decreed that said demurrer be and the same is
hereby overruled, and the defendant electing to stand by his
demurrer, the court upon further. hearing find the allegations
of the complainant's bill to be true, and that the tax therein
sought to be enjoined was illegally assessed and entered upon
the treasurer's duplicate for-collection. It is therefore ordered,
adjudged and decreed that the defendant and his successors in
office be and they are hereby perpetually enjoined from collecting or in any way or manner attempting to collect the said
illegal tax set out and particularly described in said bill of complaint."
In case No. 5127 Shields did not appear, and a decree was
entered restraining the collection of taxes.
The law of resjudicat is-well settled. Its essential principle
is, that questions once litigated shall not be litigated again between the same parties or their privies. And it may be conceded
that the appellant in the case at bar is a privy to his predecessors in the suits which are pleaded as prior adjudications,
and that resjudicataapplies to tax cases if the cause of action
relied on is the "thing" which was "adjudged" in a prior
suit. .iew Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, supra.
But the final question is, what was the "thing adjudged"
in the prior cases ? The answer to the question is found in the
pleadings in those cases and in the judgments which were en.tered. In the W-iitbeck and .fimberly cases the judgments
were substantially alike. They adjudged a deduction of the
bona f-de debts of the shareholders from the valuation of the
shares. The judgment in the Shields case, No. 5122, was more
general. It found "the allegations of the bill to be true, and
that the tax therein sought to be enjoined was illegally assessed and entered upon the treasurer's duplicate for collection." The judgment in case No. 5127 was equally as general.
But those were conclusions from propositions not only of
law but of fact, and granting that one of the propositions of
law was the construction of the Ohio statute, (a wrong con-

LANDER v. MERCANTILE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

struction, as has sfnce been held,) a necessary element of -fact
was that the discrimination complained of was effected through
the practical operation of the statute in the years the assessments were made. This was pointed out in lVational Bank of
Wellington v. Chapman, 173 U. S. 205. In that case the same
contentions were made as in this, and the same statute was
passed upon, And also the effect and extent of WThitbeck v.
Afercantile Nfational Bank were carefully considered, explained
and defined.
All the cases pleaded as res judicata were based on the
Whitbeck case, and there was in each, as we have said, the
fact of the practical operation of the Ohio statute ex6mpting
from taxation moneyed capital in the hands of individuals,
and that fact determined the judgments in each case. In other
words, as the Circuit Court found, the complainant in those
cases (appellee here) relied not only upon the statute but upon
its practical discriminatory operation. And we need not point
out that judgments based on such discrimination in 1885, 1887,
1893 or 1894 cannot be conclusive proof of the existence of discrimination in 1896 or 1897.
In the case at bar the fact of discrimination was put in issue
by the pleadings, and on the issue made the Circuit Court
found in effect adversely to appellee. In the other cases the
discrimination was either proved or admitted.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of ApTeals is reversed and
the judgment oj the Circuit Court is affirmed.
MR.

JUSTIM GRAY did

part in the decision.

not hear the argument and took no

