OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tions to reverse the decree of tile Supreme Court of the Ditrict of Columbia, passed on June 13, 1900, ordering a
conveyance to the conplainant on compliance 'with certain
conditions, and to afirm and reinstate the decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, passed January 24, 1899, dismissing the bill and amended bills as
against certain of the defendants; and it is so ordered.
M . JUSTICE HARLA I and MR.JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the
argument and took no part in the decision of this case.

COMPAGNIE FRANOAISE DE NAVIGATION A VAPEUR v. LOUISIANA STATE BOARD OF HEALTH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 4. Argued October 29, 30,1900.-Affirmed June 2,1902.

The law of Louisiana under which the Board of Health exerted the authority complained of hi this case, is found in section 8 of Act 192 of
1898. The Supreme Court of Louisiana, interpreting this statute held
that it empowered the board to exclude healthy persons from a locality
infested with a contagious or infectious disease, and that this power was
intended to apply as well to persons seeking to enter the infected place,
whether they came from without or within the State. Held: That this
empowered the board to exclude healthy persons from a locality infested with a contagious or infectious disease, and that the power was
intended to apply as well to persons seeking to enter the infected place,
whether they came from without or within the State.

THIS action was commenced in the state court against the
Board of Health of the State of Louisiana and three persons
who were members of said board, and whom it was sought to
hold individually responsible for damages alleged to have been
suffered from the enforcement of a resolution adopted by the
board upon the theory that the resolution referred to was ultra
vires and hence the members of the board who voted for it

COMPAGNIE FRANCAISE &c. v. BOARD OF HEALTH. 381
Statement of the Case.
were personally liable for any damages occasioned by the -enforcement of the resolution. The board was thus described
in the petition:
"That the defendant The State Board of Health was. a body
created by Act No. 192 of the General Assembly of the State
of Louisiana of the year 1898, with power to sue and be sued,
domiciled in this city, (the city of New Orleans,) and composed
of seven members, whose duty it was, by the provisions of said
act, to protect and preserve the public health by preparing and
promulgating a sanitary code for the State of Louisiana, by
providing for the general sanitation of the State, and with anthority to regulate infectious and contagious diseases and to
prescribe a maritime and land quarantine against places infected with such diseases."
It was asserted that the plaintiff, a corporation created by
and existing under the laws of the Republic of France and a
citizen of said republic, on or about September 2, 1898, caused
its steamship Britannia to be cleared from the ports of Marseilles, France, and Palermo, Italy, for New Orleans with a
cargo of merchandise and with about 408 passengers, some of
whom were citizens of the United States returning home, and
others who were seeking homes in the United States, and who
intended to settle in the State of Louisiana or adjoining States,
and that all the passengers referred to at the time of their
sailing were free from infectious or contagious diseases. It
was further averred that on September 29, 1898, the vessel arrived at the quarantine station some distance below the city of
New Orleans, was there regularly inspected; and was found
both as to the passengers and cargo to be free from any infectious or contagious disease, and accordingly was given a clean
bill of health, whereby the ship became entitled to proceed to
Orleans and land her passengers and discharge her cargo.
New
This, however, it was asserted she was not permitted to do,
because, on the date last mentioned, at a meeting held by the
Board of Health, the following resolution was adopted:
"Reolved, That hereafter in the case of any town, city or
parish of Louisiana being declared in quarantine, no body or
bodies of people, immigrants, soldiers or others shall be allowed

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

to enter said town, city or parish so long as said quarantine
shall exist, and that the president of the board shall enforce
this resolution."
It was charged that in order to enforce this resolution the
president of the Board of Health, who was one of the individual defendants, instructed the quarantine officer to detain
the Britannia at the quarantine station, and the president of
the board addressed to the agent of the steamship the following communciation explanatory of the detention of the vessel:
"Referring to the detention of the SS. Britannia at the
Mississippi River quarantine station, with 408 Italian immigrants on board, I have to inform you that under the provisions
of the new tate Board of Health law, section 8, of which I
enclose a marked copy, this board has adopted a resolution forbidding the landing of any body of people in any town, city or
parish in quarantine. Under this resolution the immigrants
now on board the Britannia cannot be landed in any of the
following parishes of Louisiana, namely: Orleans, St. Bernard,
Jefferson (right bank), St. Tammany, Plaquemines, St. Charles
or St. John. You will therefore govern yourselves accordingly."
The president of the Board of Health, it was alleged, moreover notiied the agent of the ship that if an attempt was made
to land the passengers at any place contiguous to New Orleans,
such place not being in quarantine, a quarantine against such
place would be declared, and thus the landing be prevented.
It was averred that whilst the resolution of the Board of
Health purported on its face to be general in its operation, in
truth, it was passed with the sole object of preventing the landing of the passengers from the Britannia, and this was demonstrated because no attempt was made by the Board of Health
to enforce the provisions of the resolution against immigrants
from Italy coming into the United States via the port of New
York and thence reaching New Orleans by rail, and that after
the promulgation of said resolution "more than 200 such persons, varying in groups of 30 to 100 in number, have from time
to time been permitted to enter said city." It was averred
that the action of the board was not authorized by the state

COMPAGNIE FRANCAISE &c. v. BOARD OF HEALTH. 383
Statement of the Case.

law, and if it was, such law was void because repugnant to the
provision of the Constitution of the United States conferring
upon Congress power "to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States and with the Indian tribes."
Averring that damage had been already entailed to the extent
of -2500, for which not only the board but its members who
voted for the resolution were liable, and reserving the right to
claim such future damage as might be entailed by the further
enforcement of the resolution, the petition asked for an injunction restraining the enforcement of the resolution in question,
and prayed judgment against the board and the members
named for $2500 in solido.
The court declined to allow a preliminary restraining order,
and upon a hearing on a rule to show cause, the injunction was
refused. The order of the Board of Health, which was complained of, continued, therefore, to be enforced against the ship.
Subsequently the plaintiff filed a supplemental and amended
petition. It was reiterated that the immigrant passengers on
board the Britannia were free from disease when they shipped
and at the time of their arrival, and, in addition, it was alleged
that the steamer with the immigrants on board had sailed from
her port of departure "prior to the declaration by said Board
of Health of the existence of any infectious disease in the city
of New Orleans." It was alleged that, in consequence of the
insistence of the Board of Health and its members, in enforcing
the illegal order refusing to allow the landing of the immigrant
passengers, the steamer had been obliged to proceed to Pensacola, Florida, where they were landed, and then the steamer
returned to New Orleans for the purpose of discharging cargo.
The damage resulting was averred to be $8500, besides the
$2500 previously claimed, and a judgment for this amount, in
addition to the previous sum, was also asked in solido against
the board and the members thereof, who were individually
made defendants. It was, moreover, averred that the action
of the -board was "in violation of the laws of the United States,
and the rules and regulations made in pursuance thereof, relating to quarantine and immigration from foreign countries into
ports of the United States, and especially acts of Congress ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

proved February 15, 1893, and acts of Congress of -March the
3d, 1893, August the 3d, 1872, and June the 26th, 1884, and the
rules and regulations made in pursuance thereof, and of the
treaties now existing between the United States, on the one
part, and the Kingdom of Italy and the Republic of France on
the other part."
The defendants filed a peremptory exception of no cause of
action, which was sustained by the trial court, and the suit was
therefore dismissed. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana the judgment of the trial court was affirmed.
51 La. Ann. 645.
X.

W. B. .Spencerfor plaintiff in error.

AXr. T. T. Howe

was on his brief.
Xr. F. C. Zac1ha-ie for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE,' after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The law of Louisiana, under which the Board of Health exerted the authority which is complained of, is found in section 8
of Act No. 192, enacted in 1898. The portion of the section
which is essential is as follows, the provision which is more
directly pertinent to the case in hand being italicized:
"In case that any parish, town or city, or any portion
thereof, shall become infected with any contagious or infectious
disease, to such an extent as to threaten the spread of such
disease to the other portions of the State, the state Board of
Health shall issue its proclamation declaring the facts and
ordering it in quarantine, and shall order the local boards of
health in other parishes, towns and cities to quarantine against
said locality, and shall establish and promulgate the rules and
regulations, terms and conditions on which intercourse with said
infected locality shall be permitted, and shall issue to the other
local sanitary authorities instructions as to the measures adopted
in quarantining against, persons, goods or other property coming from said infected localities, and these rules and regulations,

COMPAGNIE FRANCAISE &c. v. BOARD OF HEALTH. 385.
Opinion of the Court.

terms and conditions shall be observed and obeyed by all other
health authorities, provided that should any other of the noninfected portion ot .he State desire to add to the regulations
and rules, terms and conditions already imposed by the state
board, they do so on the approval of the state Board of Health.
The state Board of Health may, in its discretion, Prohibit the
introduction into any infected portion of the State, persons acclimated, unaclimatedor said to be immune, when in its judgfnent the introduction of such persons would add to or increase
theprevalence of the disease. The state Board of Health shall
render the local boards of health all the assistance in their
power and which the condition of their finances will permit."
The Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, interpreting'
this statute, held that it empowered the board to exclude healthy
persons from a locality infested with a contagious or infectious
disease, and that this power was intended to apply as well to
persons seeking to enter the infected place, whether they came
from without or from within the State. The court said:
"The law does not limit the board to prohibiting the introduction of persons from one portion of the State to another
and an infected portion of the State, but evidently looked as
well to the prohibition of the introduction of persons from points
outside of the State into any infected portion of the State. As
the object in view would be I to accomplish the subsidence and
suppression of the infectious and contagious diseases and to prevent the spread of the same,' it would be difficult to see why
parties from outside of the State should be permitted to enter
into infected places, while those from the different, parishes
should be prevented from holding intercourse with each other.
"The object in view was to keep down, as far as possible, the
number of persons to be brought within danger of contagion
or infection, and by means of this reduction to-accomplish the
subsidence and suppression of the disease and the spread of the
same.
"The particular places from which ,the ,parties, who were to,
be prohibited from entering the infected district or districts,
came could have no possible influence upon the attainment of
the result sought to be attained.
VOL. OLXXXVI--25

OCTOBER TERI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

"It would make no possible difference whether this ' added
fuel' sought to be excluded should come from Louisiana, New

York or Europe."
Referring to past conditions and the public dangers which
had arisen from them, the evil which the statute of 1898 was
intended to remedy was pointed out as follows:
"During the fall of 1897, and during the existence of an epidemic, a vessel arrived in the Mississippi River with emigrants
aboard under conditions similar to those under which the Britannia reached the same stream in 1898.
"The excited public discussions at the time as to the right
of the statl board, under the then existing law, to prevent the
landing of the emigrants and as to its duty in the premises, were
so extended as to authorize us to take judicial notice of the fact,
and in our opinion the clause in the present act which covers
that precise matter was inserted therein for the express purpose of placing the particular question outside of the range of
controversy.
" For a number of years past emigrants have been coming
into New Orleans in the autumn from Italy.
"There was a probability when the general assembly met in
1898 that the epidemic of 1897 might be repeated, and a great
probability that emigrants would seek to enter, as they had
done the year before, to the great danger, not only of the people of Louisiana, but of' the emigrants themselves.
"Independently of this, there was great danger to be apprehended from the increasing intercourse between New Orleans
and the West India Islands in consequence of a war with Spain.
"It was to ward off these dangers that this particular provision was inserted in the act of 1898."
And by implication from the reasoning just referred to the
existence of the conditions rendering it necessary to call the
power into play in the case before it was recognized. Thus
construing the statute, the state court held that it was not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and was not
in conflict with any law or treaty of the United States. These
latter considerations present the questions which arise for our
decision. All the assignments of error relied upon to show the

COM1PAGNIE FRANCAISE &c. v.BOARD OF HEALTH. 387
Opinion of the Court.
invalidity of the statute of the State of Louisiana, and hence
the illegality of the action of the Board of Health from the
point of view of Federal considerations, are, in the argument
at bar, summarized in four propositions. We shall consider
them separately and thus dispose of the case. In doing so,
however, as the first and second contentions both rest upon the
assertion that the statute violates the Constitution of the United States, we shall treat them together.
"First. The statute drawn in question, on its face and as construed and applied, is void for the reason that it is in violation
of article I, section 3, paragraph 8, of the Constitution of the
United States, inasmuch as it vests authority in the state Board
of Health, in its discretion, to interfere with or prohibit inter-'
state and foreign commerce:
"Second. The statute is void for inasmuch as it is in conflict
with section 1 of the fourteenth article of amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, in that it deprives the plaintiff of its liberty and property without due process of law, and
denies to it the equal protection of the law."
That from an early day the power of the States to enact and
enforce quarantine laws for the safety and the protection of the
health of their inhabitants has been recognized by Congress, is
beyond question. That until Congress has exercised its power
on the subject, such state quarantine laws and state laws for
the purpose of preventing, eradicating or controlling the spread
of contagious or infectious diseases, are not-repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, although their operation affects interstate or foreign commerce, is not an open question.
The doctrine was elaborately examined and stated in .Morgan
St earnshp
1ompany v. Louisiana Board of Eealth, 118 U. S.
455. That case involved determining whether a quarantine
law enacted by the State of Louisiana was repugnant to the
commerce clause of the Constitution because of its necessary
effect upon interstate and foreign commerce. The court said:
"Is the law under consideration void as a reguflation of commerce? Undoubtedly it is in some sense a regulation of coinmerce. It arrests a vessel on a voyage which may have been
a long one. It may affect commerce among, the States when

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the vessel is coming from some other State of the Union than
Louisiana, and it may affect commerce with foreign nations
when the vessel arrested comes from a foreign port. This interruption of the voyage may be for days or for weeks. It extends to the vessel, the cargo, the officers and seamen, and the
passengers. In so far as it provides a rule by which this power
is exercised, it cannot be denied that it regulates commerce.
We do not think it necessary to enter into the inquiry whether,
notwithstanding this, it is to be classed among those police
powers which were retained by the States as exclusively their
own, and, therefore, not ceded to Congress. For, while it may
be a police power in the sense that all provisions for the health,
comfort and security of the citizens, are police regulations, and
an exercise of the police power, it has been said more than once
in this court that, even where such powers are so exercised as
to come within the domain of Federal authority as defined by
the Constitution, the latter must prevail. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 210; ffenderson v. Thv Mayor, 92 U. S. 259, 272;
New Orleans Gas- Co. v. Louisiana Lig/ht Co., 115 U. S. 650,
661.
"But it may be conceded that whenever Congress shall undertake to provide for the commercial cities of the United States
a general system of quarantine, or shall confide the execution
of the details of such a system to a National Board of Health,
or to local boards, as may be found expedient, all state laws on
the subject will be abrogated, at least so far as the two are inconsistent. But, until this is done, the laws of the State on the
subject are valid. This follows from two reasons:
"1. The act of 1799, the main features of which are embodied
in Title LVIII of the Revised Statutes, clearly recognizes the
quarantine laws of the States, and required of the officers of
the Treasutry a conformity to their provisions in dealing with
vessels affected by the quarantine system. And this very clearly
has relation to laws created after the passage of that statute,
as well as to those then in existence; and when, by the act of
April 29, 1878, 20 Stat. 37, certain powers in this direction were
conferred an the Surgeon General of the Marine Hospital Service, and consuls and revenue officers were required to contrib-

COMPAGNIE FRANCAISE &c. v. BOARD OF HEALTH. 389
Opinion of the Court.

ute services in preventing the importation of disease, it was.
provided that 'there shall be no interference in any manner
with any quarantine laws or regulations as they now exist or
may hereafter be adopted under state laws,' showing very clearly
the intention of Congress to adopt these laws or to recognize
the power of the States to pass them.
"2. But, aside from this, quarantine laws belong to that
class of state legislation which, whether passed with intent to
regulate commerce or not, must be admitted to have that effect,
and which are valid until displaced or contravened by some
legislation of Congress."
Again, in Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1, 21, the court was
called upon to consider a quarantine law of the State of Texas
which by its terms Was applicable to and was enforced as to
both interstate and foreign commerbe. After referring approvingly to the case which we have above cited, the court,
speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Faller, said:
"It is not charged that this statute is invalid nor could it be
if tested by its terms. While it is true that the power vested
in Congress to regulate commerce among the States is a power
complete in itself, acknowledging no limitations other than
those prescribed in the Constitution, and that where the action
of the States in the exercise of their reserve powers comes into
collision with it, the latter must give way; yet it is also true
that quarantine laws belong to that class of state legislation
which is valid until displaced by Congress, afid that such legislation has been expressly recognized by the laws of the United
States almost from the beginning of the government."
Further, in calling attention to the fact, as remarked by the
court in iforgan Steam.hip Co7nyany v. louisianaBoard of
IfealthL, supra,that in the nature of things quarantine laws and
laws relating to public health must necessarily vary with the
different localities of the country, it was said:
"Hence even if Congress had remained silent on the subject
it would not have folio wed that the exercise of the police power
of the State in this regard, although necessarily operating on
interstate commerce, would be therefore invalid. Although
from the nature and subjects of the power of regulating con-

OCTOBER TERI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

merce it must be ordinarily exercised by the national government exclusively, this has not been held to be so where in relation to the particular subject-matter different rules might be
suitable in different localities. At the same time, Congress
could by affirmative action displace the local laws, substitute
laws of its own, and thus correct any unjustifiable and oppressive exercise of power by state legislation."
Despite these conclusive adjudications, it is earnestly insisted
in the argument at bar that by a correct appreciation of all the
decisions of this court on the subject, the rule will be discovered to be that the States may enact quarantine or other health
laws for the protection of their inhabitants, but that such laws,
if they operate upon or directly affect interstate or foreign
commerce, are repugnant to -the Constitution of the United
States independently of whether Congress has legislated on
such subjects. To sustain this contention a most copious reference is made to many cases decided by this court, where the
nature and extent of the power of Congress to regulate commerce was considered and the validity of state legislation asserted to be repugnant to such power was passed upon. To
analyze and review the numerous cases referred to in order to
point out their want of relation to the question in hand, would
involve in effect a review of the whole subject of the power of
Congress to regulate commerce in every possible aspect, and an
analysis of practically the greater body of cases which have in
this court involved that serious and difficult subject froni the
beginning. We shall not undertake to do so, but content ourselves with saying, after duly considering the cases relied upon,
that we find them inapposite to the doctrine they are cited to
sustain, and hence, when they are correctly appreciated, none
of them conflict with the settled rule announced by this court
in the cases to which we have referred.
The confusion of thought which has given rise to the misconception of the authorities relied upon in the argument, and
which has caused it to be supposed that they are apposite to
the case in hand, is well illustrated by the premise upon which
the proposition that the cited authorities are applicable rests.
That proposition is thus stated in the printed argument (italics
in the original):

COMPAGNIE FRANCAISE &c. v. BOARD OF HEALTH. 391
Opinion of the Court.

"Turning now to the decisions of this court, it will be found
that the basis upon which it has upheld the exclusion, inspection and quarantine laws of various States, is that criminals,
diseased persons and things, and paupers, are not legitimate
8ubjects of commerce. They may be attendant evils, but they
are not legitimate subjects of traffic and transportation, and
therefore, in their exclusion or detention, the State is not interfering with legitimate commerce, which is the only kind entitled to the protection of the Constitution."
But it must be at once observed that this erroneously states
the doctrine as concluded by the decisions of this court previously refered to, since the proposition ignores the fact that
those cases expressly and unequivocally hold that the health
and quarantine laws 6f the several States are not repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States, although they affect
foreign and domestic commerce, as in many cases they necessarily must do in order to be efficacious,- because until Congress
has acted under the authority conferred upon it by the Constitution, such state health and quarantine laws producing such
effect on legitiniate interstate commerce are not in conflict
with the Constitution. True is it that, in'some of the cases relied on in the argument, it was held that a state law absolutely
prohibiting the introduction, under all circumstances, of objects
actually affected with disease, was valid because such objects
were not legitimate commerce. But this implies no limitation
on the power to regulate by health laws the subjects of legitimate commerce. In other words, the power exists until Congress has acted, to incidentally regulate by health and quarantine
laws, even although interstate and foreign commerce is affected,
and the power to absolutely prohibit additionally obtains where
the thing prohibited is not commerce, and hence not embraced
in either interstate or foreign commerce. True, also, it was
held in some of the cases referred to by counsel, that where the
introduction of a given article was absolutely prohibited by a
state law upon the asserted thicry that the health of the inhabitants would be aided by the enforcement of the prohibition, it was decided that, as the article which it was thus sought
to prohibit, was a well-known article of commerce, and there-

OCTOBER TERMT, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

fore the legitimate subject of interstate commerce, it could not
be removed from that category by the prohibitive effect of
state legislation. But this case does not involve that question,
since it does not present the attempted exercise by the State of
the power to absolutely prohibit the introduction of an article
of commerce, but merely requires us to decide whether a state
law, which regulates the introduction of persons and property
into a district infested with contagious or infectious diseases, is
.void, because to enforce such regulation will burden interstate
and foreign commerce, and therefore violate the Constitution
of the United States. It is earnestly insisted that the statute,
whose constitutionality is assailed, is, on its face, not a regulation, but an absolute prohibition against interstate commerce,
and it is sought to sustain this contention by various sug. -estions as to the wrong which may possibly arise from a perversion and an abuse by the state authorities of the power which
the statute confers. Thus it is said, what is an infectious and
contagious disease is uncertain, and involves a large number of
maladies. How many cases of such malady are essential to
cause a place to be considered as infected with them is left to
the determination of the Board of Health. That board, it is
argued, may then arbitrarily, upon the existence of one or more
cases of any malady which it may deem to be infectious or contagious, declare any given place in the State, or even the whole
State of Louisiana, infected, and proceed to absolutely debar
all interstate or foreign commerce with the State of Louisiana.
;rue it is, as said in -Morganv. lou.isiana,ubi sup.:
"In all cases of this kind it has been repeatedly held that,
when the qtuestion is raised whether the state statute is a just
exercise*of state power or is intended by roundabout means to
invade the domain of Federal authority, this court will look
into thi operation and effect of the statute to discern its purpose.
See Henderson v. Xayor of _few York, 92 U. S. 259; Chy .ung
v. Freeman, 92 U. S. 275; Cannon v. -Yew Orleans, 20 Wall.
587."
But this implies that we are to consider the statute as, enacted
and the natural results flowing from it. It does not import that
we are to hold a. state statute unconstitutional by indulging in

COMPAGNIE FRANCAISE &c. v. BOARD OF HEALTH. 393
Opinion of the Court.

conjecture as to every conceivable harm which may arise or
wrong which may be occasioned by the abuse of the lawful
powers which a statute confers. It will be time enough to consider a case of such supposed abuse when it is presented for consideration. And it is also tb be borne in mind, as said by this
court in -Louisiana v. Texas, supra, 22, if any such wrong
should be perpetrated "Congress could by affirmative action
displace the local laws, substitute laws of its own, and thus correct any unjustifiable and oppressive exercise of power by state
legislation." And the iiews which we have previously expressed
suffice to dispose of the contention that the subjecting of the
vessel of the plaintiff in error to the restriction imposed by the
quarantine and health lawi of the,State operated to deprive the
defendant in error of-its property without due process of law,
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. It having been
ascertained that the regulation was lawfully adopted and enforced the contention demonstrates its own unsoundness, since
in the last analysis it reduces itself to the proposition that the
effect of the Fourteenth Amendment was to strip the government, whether state or national, of all power to enact regulations protecting the health and safety of the people, or, what is
equivalent thereto, necessarily amounts to saying that such laws
when lawfully enacted cannot be enforced against person or
property without violating the Constitution. In other words,
that the lawful powers of government which the Constitution
has conferred may not be exerted without bringing about a violation of the Constitution.
"Third. The statute as applied and construed is void, for the
reason that it is in conflict with treaties between the United
States on the one part and the Republic of France and the Kingdom of Italy on the other part, guaranteeing certain rights,
privileges and immunities to the citizens and subjects of said
rountries."
Reliance is placed to sustain this proposition, on the provisions of a treaty concluded with the Kingdom of Italy on February 26, 1871; on the terms of a treaty with Great Britain of
July 3, 1815, as also a treaty between the United States and the
Kingdom of Greece, concluded December 22, 1837, and one con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

eluded with the Kingdom of Sweden and Norway on July 24,
1827. The treaties of other countries than Italy are referred
to upon the theory that as by thd treaty concluded with France
on April 3, 1803, by which Louisiana was acquired, it was provided that France should be treated upon the footing of the
most favored nation in the ports of the ceded territory, therefore the treaties in question made with other countries than
France were applicable to the plaintiff in error, a French subject.
. Conceding, drguen&l, this latter proposition, and therefore
assuming that all the treaties relied 'on are applicable, we think
it clearly results from their context that they were not intended
to and did not deprive the government of the United States of-those poNVers necessarily inhering in it and essential to the
health and safety of its people. We say the United States, because if th treaties relied on have the effect claimed for them
that effect would be equally as operative and conclusive against
a quarantine established by the government of the United States
as it would be against a state quarantine operating upon and affecting foreign commerce by.virtue of the inaction of Congress.
Without. reviewing the text of all the treaties, we advert to the
provisions of the one made with Greece, which is principally
relied upon. The text of article XV of this treaty is the provision to which our attention is directed, and it is reproduced
in the margin.1
1 " Article XV. It is agreed that vessels arriving directly from the United
States of America at a port within the dominion of His Majesty the King of
Greece, or from the Kingdom of Greece, at a port of the United States of
America, and provided with a bill of health granted by an officer having
competent power to that effect at the port whence such vessel shall have
sailed, setting forth that no malignant or contagious diseases prevailed in
that port, shall be subjected to no other quarantine than such as may be
necessary for the visit of the health officer of the port where such vessel
shall have arrived, after which said vessels shall be allowed immediately to
enter and unload their cargoes; Provided always, that there shall be on
board no person who, during the voyage, shall have been attacked with any
malignant or contagious disease; that such vessel shall not, during the pas-.
sage, have communicated with anyvessel liable itself to undergo quarantine;
and that the country whence they came shall not at that time be so far infected or suspected that, before their arrival, an ordinance had been issued
in consequence of which all vessels coming from that country should be
considered as suspected, and consequently subject to quarantine."

COMPAGNIE FRANCAISE &c. v. BOARD OF HEALTH. 395
Opinion of the Court.

It is apparent that it provides only the particular form of
document which shall be taken by a ship of the Kingdom of
Greece and reciprocally by those of the United States for the
purpose of establishing that infectious or contagious diseases
did not exist at the point of departure. But it is plain from the
face of the treaty that the provision as to the certificate was
not intended to abrogate the quarantine power, since the concluding section of the article in question expressly subjects the
vessel holding the certificate to quarantine detention if, on its
arrival, a general quarantine had been established against all
ships coming from the port whence the vessel holding the certificate had sailed. In other words, the treaty having provided the
certificate and given iteffect under ordinary conditions, proceeds
to subject the vessel holding the certificate .to quarantine, if, on
its arrival, such restriction had been established in consequence
of infection deemed to exist at the port of departure. Nothing
in the text of the treaty, we think, gives even color to the suggestion that it was intended to deal with the exercise by the
government of the United States of its power to legislate for the
safety and health of its people or to render the exertion of such
power nugatory by exempting the vessels of the Kingdom of
Greece, when coming to the United States, from the operation
of such laws. In other words, the treaty was made subject to
the enactment of such health laws as the local conditions might
evoke not paramount to them. Especially where the restriction imposed upon the vessel is based, not upon the conditions
existing at the port of departure, but upon the presence of an
infectious or contagious malady at the port of arrival within
the United States, which, in the nature of things, could not be
covered by the certificate relating to the state of the public health
at the port whence the ship had sailed.
"Fourth. The statute as applied is void for the reason that
it is in conflict with the laws of the United States relating to
foreign immigration into the United States."
also
the
embraces
proposition
bar
'this
at
In the argument
act
the
with
claim that the statute is void because in coifflict
of Congress of 1893 entitled "An act granting additional quarantine powers and imposing additional duties upon the M,arine

OCTOBER TERI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Hospital Service." 27 Stat. 449. And that it also is in conflict with the rules and regulations adopted for the enforcement
of both the immigration laws and the quarantine law referred to.
The immigration acts to which the proposition relates are
those of March 3, 1875, of August 3, 1882, of June 26, 1884, of
February 26, 1885, of March 23, 1887, and March 3, 1891, and
the regulations to enforce the same. Without undertaking to
analyze the provisions of these acts, it suffices to say that, after
-scrutinizing them, we think they do not purport to abrogate
the quarantine laws of the several States, and that the safeguards which they create and the regulations which they impose
on the introduction of immigrants are ancillary, and subject to
such quarantine laws. So far as the act of 1893 is concerned,
it is manifest that it did not contemplate the overthrow of the
existing state quarantine systems and the abrogation of the
powers on the subject of health and quarantine exercised by
the States from the beginning, because the enactment of state
laws on these subjects would, in particular instances, affect interstate and foreign commerce. An extract from section 3 of
the act, which we think makes these conclusions obvious, is reproduced in the margin.'
1 "SEc. 3. That the Supervising Surgeon General of the Marine Hospital
Service shall, immediately after this act takes -effect, examine the quarantine regulations of all state and municipal boards of health, and shall, under
the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, co6perate with and aid
state and municipal boards of health in the execution and enforcement of
the rules and regulations of such boards and in the execution and enforcement of the rules and regulations made by the Secretary of the Treasury,
to prevent the introduction of contagious or infectious diseases into the
United States from foreign countries, and into one State or Territory or
the Dstrict of Columbia from another State or Territory or the District of
Columbia; and all rules and regulations made by the Secretary of the
Treasury shall operate uniformly and in no manner discriminate against
any port or place; and at such ports and places within the United States as
have no quarantine regulations under state or municipal authority, where
such regulations are, in the opinion of the Secretary of the Treasury, necessary to prevent the introduction of contagious or infectious diseases into
the United States from foreign countries, or into one State or Territory or
the District of Columbia from another State or Territory or the District of
Columbia, and at such ports and places within the United States where

COMI-AGNIE FRANCAISE &c. v. BOARD OF HEALTH. 397
JUsTiCES BROWN and HARLANI, dissenting.

Nor do we find anything in the rules and regulations adopted
by the Secretary'of the Treasury in execution of the power conferred upon him by the act in question giving support to the
contention based upon them. It follows from what has been
said that the Supreme Court of Louisiana did not err in deciding that the act in question was not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and was not in conflict with the acts
of Congress or the treaties made by the United States which
were relied upon to show to the contrary and its judgment is,
therefore,
Affirmed.
MRt. JusTcE

BRowN, with whom was MRt.

JuSTiCE

HIALAN,

dissenting.
The power of the several States, in the absence of legislation
by Congress on the subject, to establish quarantine regulations,
to prohibit the introduction into the State of persons infected
quarantine regulations exist under the authority of the State or municipality which, in the opinion of the Secretary of the Treasury, are not sufficient
to prevent the introduction of such diseases into the United States, or into
one State or Territory or the District of Columbia from another State or
Territory or the District of Columbia, the Secretary of the Treasury shall,
if in his judgment it is necesary and proper, make such additional rules and
regulations as are necessary to prevent the introduction of such diseases
into the United States from foreign countries, or into one State or Territory or the District of Columbia from another State or Territory or the
District of Columbia, and when said rules and regulations-have been made
they shall be promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury and enforced
by the sanitary authorities of the States and municipalities, where the state
or municipal health authorities will undertake to execute and enforce them;
but if the state or municipal authorities shall fail or refuse to enforce said
rules, and regulations the President shall execute and enforce tle same and
adopt such measures as in his judgment shall be necessary to prevent the
introduction or spread of such diseases, and may detail or appoint officers
for that purpose. The Secretary of the Treasury shall make such rules and
-regulations as are necessary to be observed by vessels at the -port of departure and on the voyage, where such vessels sail from any foreign port or
place to any port or place in the United States, to secure the best sanitary
condition of such vessel, her cargo, passengers and crew, which shall be
published and communicated to ind enforced by the consular officers of
the United States."

OCTOBER TERMT, 1901.
JUSTICES BROWN and HARLAN, dissenting.

with disease, or recently exposed to contagion, and to impose a
reasonable charge upon vessels subjected to examination at
quarantine stations, is so well settled by repeated decisions of
this court as to be no longer open to doubt. This case, however, does not involve that question, but- the broader one,
whether, inthe assumed exercise of this power, the legislature
may declare certain portions of the State to be in quarantine,
and prohibit the entry therein of all persons whatsoever, whether
.coming from the United States or foreign countries, from infected or uninfected ports, whether the persons included are
diseased or have recently been exposed to contagion, or are
perfectly sound and healthy, and coming from ports in which
there is n6 suspicion of contagious diseases.
.Ihave no doubt of the power to quarantine all vessels arriving in the Mississippi from foreign ports for a sufficient length
of time to enable the health officers to determine whether there
are among her passengers any persons afflicted with a contagious disease. But the State of Louisiana undertakes to do far
more than this. It authorizes the state Board of Health at its
discretion to "prohibit the introduction into any infected portion of the State of persons acclimated, unacclimated or said to
be immune, when in its judgment the introduction of said persons would add to or increase the prevalence of the disease;"
and at its meeting on September 29, 1898, the Board of Health
adopted the following resolution:
"That hereafter, in the case of any town, city or parish of
Iouisiana being declared in quarantine, no body or bodies of
people, immigrants, soldiers or others shall be allowed to enter
said town, city or parish so long as said quarantine shall exist,
and that the president of the board shall enforce this resolution."
In other words, the Boar d of Health is authorized and assumes to prohibit in all portions of the State which it chooses
to declare in quarantine, the introduction or immigration of all
persons from outside the quarantine district, whether infectedor uninfected, sick or well, sound or unsound, feeble or healthy;
and that, too, not for the few days necessary to establish the
sanitary status of such persons, but for an indefinite and possi-

COMPAGNIE FRANCAISE &c. v. BOARD OF HEALTH. 399
JusncEs BBoww and HARLAw, dissenting.

bly permanent period. I think this is not a necessary or proper
exercise of the police power, and falls within that numerous
clast of cases which hold that States may not, in the assumed
exercise of police power, interfere with foreign or interstate
commerce.
The only excuse offered for such a wholesale exclusion of
immigrants is, as stated by the Supreme Court, "to keep down,
as far as possible, the number of persons to be brought within
danger of contagion or infection, and by means of this reduction to accomplish the subsidence and suppression of the disease,
and the spread of the same." In other words, the excuse
amounts to this: that the admission, even of healthy persons,
adds to the possibility of the contagion being communicated
upon the principle of adding fuel to the flame. It does not increase the danger of contagion by adding infected persons to
the population, since the bill avers that all the immigrants were
healthy and sound. All it coul possibly do is to increase the
number of persons who might become ill- if permitted to be
added to the population. This is a danger not to the population, but to the immigrants. It seems to me that this is a possibility too remote to justify the drastic measure of a total
exclusion of all classes of immigrants, and that the opinion of
the court is directly in the teeth of Railr'oad Company v.
EuHsen, 95 U. -S.465, wherein a state statute, which prohibited
lndian
the driving or conveying of any Texas, Mexican or
cattle into the State, between March 1 and November I in each
year, was held to be in conflict with the commerce clause of
the Constitution. Such statute was declared to be more than
a quarantine regulation, and not a legitimate exercise of the
police power of the State. Said Mr. Tustice Strong, page 472:
"While we unhesitatingly admit that a State may pass sanitary
laws, and laws for the protection of life, liberty, health or 'property within its borders; while it may prevent persons and
animals suffering under contagious or infectious diseases, or
convicts, etc., from entering the State; while for the purpose
of self-protection it may establish quarantine and reasonable
inspection laws, it may not interfere with the transportation
into or through the State, beyond what is absolutely necessary

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
JUSTICES BwOwx and HARLAw,

dissenting.

iur its self-protection. It may not under the cover of exerting
its police powers substantially prohibit or lurden either foreign
or interstate commerce." The statute was held to be a plain
intrusion upon thi exclusive domain of Congress; that it was
not a quarantine law; not an inspection law, and was objectionable because it prohibited the introduction of cattle, no
matter whether they may do an injury to the inhabitants of a
State or not; ." and if you do bring them in, even for the purpose of carrying them through the State without unloading
them, you shall be subject to extraordinary liabilities." Cases
covering the same principle are those of State v. Steamsh p Con8ttution, 42 Cal. 578, and City of Bangor v. Smith&, 83 Maine,
422.
I am also unable to concur in the construction given in the
opinion of the court to the treaty stipulation with France and
other foreign powers. The treaty with France of 1803 provides
that "the ships of France shall be treated upon the footing of
the most favored nation in the ports above mentioned" of Louisiana. Article 14 of the treaty with Greece-of December 22,
1837, set -forth in the opinion, provides that vessels arriving
directly fr6m the Kingdom of Greece at any port of the United
States of America, "and provided with a bill of health granted
by an officer having competent power to that effect, at the port
whence such vessel shall have sailed, setting forth that no malignant or contagious diseases prevailed in that port, shall be subjected to no other quarantine than such as may be necessary
for the visit of the health officer of the port where such vessel
shall have arrived, after which said vessels shall be allowed immediately.to enter and unload their cargoes: Providedalways,
That there shall be on board no person who, during the voyage, shall have been attacked with any malignant or contagious
disease; that such vessel shall not, during the passage, have
communicated with any vessel liable itself to undergo quarantine, and that the country whence they came, shall. not atthat
time be so far infected or suspected 'that, before their arrival,
an ordinance had been issued, in consequence of which, all vessels coming from that country should be considered as suspected, and consequently subject to quarantine."

CAPITAL CITY LIGHT &c. CO. v. TALLAHASSEE. 401
Statement of the Case.

If the law in question in Louisiana, excluding French ships
from all access to the port of New Orleans, be not a violation
of the provision of the treaty that vessels "shall be subject to
no other quarantine than such as may be necessary for the visit
of a health officer of the port, after which such vessels shall be
allowed immediately to enter and unload their cargoes," I am
unable to conceive a state of facts which would constitute a violation of that provision.- Necessary as efficient quarantine laws
are, I know of-no authority in the States to enact such as are
in conflict with our treaties with f6reign nations.

CAPITAL CITY LIGHT AND FUEL COMPANY v. TAL
LAHASSEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 209. Submitted April 7, 1902.-Decided June 2, 1902.

The city of Tallahassee has never been under obligation to take electric
lighting from the Capital City Light and Fuel Company.
There has been no impairment of ariy contract between, the city and the
plaintiff in error or its predecessor, and the city has the right to avail
itself of the privileges granted by.the acts of 1897 and 1899, so far as regards the electric lighting of the city.

THE plaintiff in error, being the plaintiff below, brings this
case here by writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Florida for the Purpose of reviewing a judgment of that
court, affirming the judgment of the circuit court of the second
judicial district of that State,, dismissing plaintiff's bill of complaint against the defendant with costs.
The bill shows that the Tallahassee Gas and Electric Light
Company was incorpqrated -pursuant to the laws of. the State,
December 20, 1887, for the purpose, as stated in its articles of
association, of constructing, maintaining and operating gas
works and electric light works in the city of Tallahassee, and
for the manufacture of gas for light and fuel, or for the purVOL. OLXXXI-26

