OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The sulphur was subsequently, in pursuance of an agreement
in -writing, after the signing of the peace protocol between the
United States and Spain, forwarded on the steamship Abazzia,
belonging to the owners of the Styria, to the port of New York.
Several questions arose in the courts below, under the terms of
that agreement, and chiefly having reference to the measure of
damages in case that the vessel was held liable. But as, for the
reasons given, we hold that the vessel was not liable, those
questions do not call for our consideration.
The decrees of the District Court and of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, sustaining the libels of the respective libellants,are
hereby reversed; the decrees of the Circuit Court of ATpeals reversing the decrees of the District Court, dismissing
the respective cross libels, are hereby q nirmed, and the causes
are remanded to the District Court with directions to take
further _proceedings in conformity with the opinion of this
court.

MONTANA MINING COM,PANY v. ST. LOUIS MINING
AND MILLING COMPANY.
MONTANA MININ- COMPANY v. ST. LOUIS MINING
AND MILLING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 213, 214.

Argued April 9,1902.-Decided May 19,1902.

When by the judgment of the. Circuit Court each party to a cause is defeated in some -part of his contention, and both take the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirms the judgment in favor of one party,
and reverses it and remands the cause at the suit of the same party, the
judgments of that court taken together cannot be regarded as final so far
as the jurisdiction of this court is concerned, and writs of error from this
court to review each judgment must be dismissed.

THIS was an action brought by the St. Louis Mining and
Milling Company of Montana against the Montana Mining

MONTANA k. CO. v. ST. LOUIS M. & M. CO.'
Statement of the Case.

Company in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Montana, to recover damages for trespass on a vein
of rock, having its apex entirely within the described premises
of plaintiff, and extracting therefrom and converting large
quantities of valuable ore.
The cause was tried on a second amended and supplemental
complaint, which was filed June 26, 1899, and is set forth in
the record, but the original complaint and the amended complaint are not. The record contains the original -ummons
dated September 18, 1893, which ran against the Montana company; and sundry individuals, whose citizenship was not stated,
though it appeared that they were served in Lewis and Clarke
County, Montana, but who seem to have disappeared as parties
in the progress of the cause, aid who are not parties to the
complaint contained in the record.
The first paragraph of the second amended and supplemental complaint alleged"That at the several dates hereinafter rhentioned this plaintiff was, and now is, a corporation duly organized and existing
under the laws of the then Territory (now State) of Montana,
under the corporate name of St. Louis Mining and Milling
Company of Montana, and as such was and-is entitled to own,
enjoy, 'and possess minng property in the said State, with all
the rights, privileges, and immunities incident and appurtenant
thereto; and that at said dates the said defendant, Montana
Mining Company, Limited, was and now is a foreign corporation, incorporated under the laws of Great Britain, and, as such
corporation, by virtue of its compliance with the laws of the
then Territory (now State) of Montana, was and is entitled and
authorized to do and transact business in said State."
The second paragraph alleged plaintiff "to be the owner
of, entitled to, and in the actual possession and occupation of
that certain quartz lode mining claim known as the St. Louis
Quartz lode mining claim, and all the quartz, rock and ore and
precious metals contained in any and all veins, lodes and ledges
of mineral-bearing rock through their entire depth, the tops or
apexes of which lie within the surface lines of the said fractional portion of said St. Louis lode mining claim, although

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

such veins, lodes or ledges may so far depart from a perpendicular in their downward course as to extend outside of the
vertical side line of the surface of the said St. Louis Quartz lode
mining claim," situated in the county of Lewis and Clarke,
Montana, and more particularly described as follows: [Here
followed a full description, concluding] "Save and except that
portion thereof known as the thirty-foot strip or compromise
ground which belongs to and is a part and portion of what is
known and designated as the Nine Hour lode mining claim,
which said fractional portion of said St. Louis lode mining claim
is described as follows, to wit: [Here followed description].
The third and fourth paragraphs were as follows:
"III. That the said defendant, Montana Mining Company,
Limited, is and was the owner of what is known and designated
as the Nine Hour Quartz lode mining claim, situate and being
east of the said St. Louis lode mining claim, and including the
80-foot strip or compromise ground aforesaid, and that the discovery, location and recordation of the said St. Louis lode mining
claim and the United States patent therefor was made prior to
the discovery, location and recordation and patent to the said
Nine Hour lode mining claim.
"IV. That the dip of one of the veins having a portion of
its top or apex inside of the surface location and patented
ground of the said St. Louis mining claim is to the east and
dips under and beneath the said Nine Hour lode mining claim,
including the said thirty-foot strip or the compromise ground,
which is a part and portion of the said Nine Hour Quartz lode
mining claim, which said portion of said vein has its top or apex
within the said St. Louis mining claim as follows, to wit: Commencing at a projected parallel end line of said St. Louis Quartz
lode mining claim, at a point on the east side line thereof, between corners Nos. 1 and 2, extended vertically downward,
whereat it passes through the hanging wall of said vein, lode,
or ledge, at a point from which corner No. 1, being the northeast corner of gaid St. Louis Quartz lode mining claim, bears
north 12 degrees 15 minutes east, distant 520 feet, where said
hanging wall is disclosed at the surface by an upraise of said
projected parallel end line, 5 feet west of the east side line of

MONTANA M. CO. v.ST. LOUIS M.&

M. CO.

Statement of the Case.

said St. Louis Quartz lode mining claim ; thence, from where the
said projected parallel end line passes through said east side line
of said claim, and along the east side line of the said claim between corners Nos. 1 and 2, south, 21 degrees t minutes west,
512.7 feet to a point, being the intersection of the said east side
line of said St. Louis Quartz lode mining claim, betWeen corners
Nos. 1 and 2, with the west line of the said thirty-foot strip hereinbefore described; thence south;,59 degrees 50 minutes west,
108 feet and along the west line of the said thirty-foot strip, to
a projected parallel end line of said St. Louis Quartz lode mining
claim, extended vertically downward, which passes through the
hanging wall of said vein at the surface and at the crossing of
the said hanging wall with the west line of the said thirty-foot
strip.
"That it is also the owner of, in possession and entitled to
the possession of an additional portion of the said apex of said
claim lying to the south of the southern point, hereinbefore
mentioned, a distance of twenty-five feet, whereat the foot wall
of. the said vein passes out of the east side line of the said St.
Louis lode mining claim.
"A map or plat showing the point at which the said vein enters
said St. Louis lode mining claim as so hereinbefore described,
and whereat the same departs therefrom upon the east line of
said claim is hereto attached, marked Exhibit 'A,' and made a
part of this complaint, and to which reference is made."
The Montana Mining Company answered June 30, 1899, in
three paragraphs, the first admitting the allegations of paragraphs numbered one, two and three 6f the second amended
and supplemental complaint; the second paragraph -denying
each and every other allegation thereof; and the third being
as follows:
"And this defendant, further answering, says that the plaintiff is estopped from claiming any of the mineral found or which
may hereafter be found in said thirty-foot strip or compromise
ground, for that heretofore, to wit, on or about the seventh day
of March, A. D. 1884, one Charles Mayger, who was then and
there the predecessor in interest of plaintiff, made, executed and
delivered to William Robinson, James -uggins and Frank P.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

Sterling, who were and are the predecessors in interest of this
defendant, a 'bond for a deed, wherein and whereby he covenanted and agreed to convey the said thirty-foot strip or compromise ground to the predecessors in interest of this defendant,
or their assigns, with all the mineral therein contained, a copy
of which said bond is hereto attached, marked Exhibit 'A,' and
made a part of this answer. That thereafter and after the said
Charles Mayger had obtained a United States patent for the
whole of said St. Louis lode mining claim, including said thirtyfoot strip or compromise ground, the said Mayger, in order to
cheat and defraud this defendant, assumed to convey the said
compromise ground to the above-named plaintiff. That thereafter this d~fendant demanded of and from the said plaintiff
and from the said Mlayger a deed for the said compromise
ground in accordance with the terms and provisions of the bond
aforesaid, and the said plaintiff and the said Mayger having refused and declining to make, execute or deliver such a deed, this
defendant thereafter, and on or about the sixth day of September, A. D. 1894, commenced an action in the district court
of the first judicial district of the State of Montana, within and
for the county of Lewis and Clarke, wherein this defendant was
plaintiff and the above-named plaintiff, together with the said
Charles Mayger, were defendants, to compel the specific performance of the said bond for a deed hereinbefore mentioned
and set forth; that thereafter such proceedings were had in said
action as that on the first day of June, A. D. 1895, judgment
was duly made and entered therein in favor of this defendant,
the plaintiff therein, and against the plaintiff, defendant in said
action, whereby, among other things, it was ordered, adjudged
and decreed that the said bond hereinbefore mentioned be specifically performed, and that the defendant, the above-named plaintiff, make, execute and deliver to this defendant a good and
sufficient conveyance in fee simple absolute, free from all encumbrances for the premises mentioned and described in the
complaint in said action and in the bond hereinbefore mentioned; that in pursuance of said judgment, order and decree
the said plaintiff, on or about the first day of July, A. D. 1895,
made and executed a deed to this defendant of and for the said

MONTANA M. CO. v. ST. LOUIS MI.& M. CO..

29

Opinion of the Court.

premises and of all the mineral therein contained; and thereafter the said deed was duly delivered to this defendant, a copy
of which said deed is hereunto annexed, marked Exhibit ' B,' and
made a part of this answer. And this defendant avers that in
and by the said proceedings and the said deed the said plaintiff is estopped from claiming any part of the said compromise
ground or thirty-foot strip aforesaid, or any mineral contained
therein."
Replication was filed, the cause tried by the court and a jury,
a verdict returned in favor of plaintiff for $23,209, and judgment
rendered thereon. To review this judgment the Montana company prosecuted a writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which writ was dated October 7,
1899, and the judgment was affirmed May 14, 1900. 102 Fed.
Rep. 430. The writ of error in No. 213 was then allowed.
On the trial the St. Louis company was restricted by the
Circuit Court to damages for-ore taken north of what was designated as the 108-foot plane of the Nine Hour claim, but the.
company insisted on the right to recover for ore taken up to
what was designated as the Nine Hour 133-foot plane. Accordingly the St. Louis company took out -a cross writ of error
from the Circuit Court of Appeals dated January 30, 1900, and
that cburt reversed the judgment, October 8, 1900, -and remanded the cause for a new trial as to the recovery sought for
the conversion and value of certain ores between the planes designated as the 108-foot and 133-foot planes. 104 Fed. Rep.
664. The writ of error in No. 214 was then brought.
Mr. . E. Cullen and Mr. Charles J. Hughes, J., for plain:
tiff in error. .Xr. Edward C. Day, Xr. Aldis B. Browne'and
.7kr. Alexander B'ritton were on their brief.
•.7k. Thomas C. Bach and -Xrb. Arthur Brown for-defendant
in error. Xfr. H. P. Henderson and A3r. E. IV.Toole were on
their brief.
M

.CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The St. Louis company recovered judgment in the Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion.of the Court.

Court for the sum of $23,209.

This judgment was affirmed by

-the Court of Appeals, May 14, 1900, on the writ of error brought
by the Montana company.
On the eighth of October, 1900, the Court of Appeals gave
judgment on the cross writ of error of the St. Louis company
in these words: "On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by. this court, that the judgment of the
said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and the cause is remanded to said Circuit
Court for a new trial as to damages alleged and recovery sought
for the conversion and value of certain ores taken from the
Drmn Lummon vein on its dip between the planes designated
as the 108-f6ot and 133-foot planes."
To- review these judgments thus separately rendered, the
Montana company sued out on the same day, October 24, 1900,
two writs of error from this court, the records returned on which
were filed December 18, 1900, and the cases docketed, and now
numbered 213 and 214.
The St. Louis company moved to dismiss the writ of error
in No.213 on the ground that the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court was, according to plaintiff's statement of his own claim,
"dependent entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit or
controversy, being alidns and citizens of the United States or
citizens of different States," and the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was, therefore, not reviewable on error under
the sixth section of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891. And
at the same time, the St. Louis company moved to dismiss the
writ of error in No. 214 on the additional ground that the judgment was not a final judgment. This objection is, of course,
well taken, and the writ of error must be dismissed. But when,
thereupon, the mandate of the Court of Appeals goes down to
the Circuit Court, if in the meantime we have retained jurisdiction in No. 213, the result would be that part of the case would
be pending in the court of original jurisdiction, and part in the
court of last resort. And should we differ with the Court of
Appeals and reverse its judgment brought up in No. 213, our
mandate would go to the Circuit Court, which would have been
already directed to proceed as to part of the case on other prin-

MONTANA M. CO. v. ST. LOUIS M. & Al. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ciples. We do not mean to intimate in the slightest degree any
conclusion on the merits, but only wish to indicate embarrassments which might arise if one and the same case is treated as
two separate and independent cases.
By Rule 22 of this court appeals and cross appeals are heard
together, and the practice is the same as to writs and cross writs
of error. Where there are cross appeals or cross writs of error in the Circuit Courts of Appeals in cases in which the decrees or judgments are made final in that court by statute, and
the case is brought here on certiorari, ye consider only the errors assigned by petitioner, unless a cross writ of certiorari is
applied for and allowed. Hubbard v. Tod, 171 U. S. 474.
In this case two writs of error were sued out by-the Montana
company because there wefe two judgments rendered below,
but the records on both constitute the record in one and the
same case, as both writs of error in the Court of Appeals ran
to the same judgment of the Circuit Court.
It is said that the complaint described two sections of the
vein, one lying north of the 108-foot plane and one between
the 108 and 133-f6ot planes, and that as they were described
separately this was equivalent to two counts on distinct causes
of action. But we do not understand that this is so, for -the
complaint is complete in itself, and a single trespass may be
committed on several closes and alleged in a single count;
Moreover, although set up in two counts, if there were iio misjoinder, which is not pretended here, the recovery would be
entire and would require an entire judgment. And as the trial
court sustained a recovery as to one part of the vein and not as
to the other, and both parties took bills of exceptions, and resorted to the appellate tribunal, we do not think that the judgment as rendered could be retained as a judgment and a retrial
had as to so much of the claim as was disallowed. Our attention is not called to any act of Congress or to any rule of prac
tice which authorizes this to be done, nor to any statute or decision of the courts of Montana to that effect, if, indeed, the
Federal courts would be obliged to follow such practice if -it
existed. And the difficulty of, the situation is illustrated by
the suggestion of counsel that this one action should be regarded

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

as two actions, over one of which the ground of jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court was dependent solely on diverse citizenship,
and over the other, not.
But we are of opinion. that the judgment of the Court of Appeals on the writ of error prosecuted by the St. Louis company
operated to reverse the prior judgment of affirmance, inasmuch
as the court in terms reversed the judgment of the Circuit Court,
although imposing a limitation on the extent of the new trial
awarded. Even if the Court of Appeals had power to impose
that limitation, the issue so reserved deprived the first judgment
of finality so far as our jurisdiction is concerned. Covington v.
First Yational Bank, 185 U. S. 270.
The answer to the complaint consisted of a general denial
and an affirmative defence that the plaintiff bad granted by
contract, and afterwards by deed enforced by a decree of court,
a thirty-foot strip along a portion of its side line, and the trial
court held that the plaintiff could not recover for the 25-foot
section between the two planes, but that it could recover northerly from the 108-foot plane. Each party was defeated in some
part of its contention, and each party took the case to the Court
of Appeals, but the decision of that court left a part of the case
undisposed of in the court below. The judgment of reversal
being before us in No. 214, we are not compelled to ignore its
effect on the judgment in No. 213, and to entertain one writ of
error while dismissing the other. Butler v. Eaton, 141 U. S.
243; Kimball v. lfimball, 174 U. S. 158; Hills v. Green, 159
U. S. 6541; Chicago & Yincennes Railroadv. Fosdiclk, 106 U. S.
84.
When these writs of error were taken out the judgment first
rendered had ceased to be final by the operation of the second
judgment, which was itself not final, and the result is that both
must be dismissed.
Writs of error dismissed.
MiR. 'TUSTICE GR&AY did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision.

