OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tained the disposition 'of the cause on the cross-bill. Such
might be the result here if it turned out on the hearing that
the Azalea was in fault and not the schooner, provided jurisdiction could be maintained to award relief against the United
States. But in any point of view, the decree on the cross-libel
did not so finally dispose of the whole .case as to entitle us to
take jurisdiction under section 5 of the act of 1891.
4 peal dismi&med.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE MoKENNA dissented.

WARD v. JOSLIN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.
No. 245. Argued April 30,1902.-Decided May 19, 1902.
As between creditor and stockholder the provision of the Constitution of
Kansas that "dues from corporations shall be secured by individual liability of the stockholders to an additional amount equal to the stock
owned by each stockholder," applies to indebtedness incurred in the legitimate and contemplated business of the corporation.
Where ajudgment has been rendered in Kansas against a corporation of that
State. by default, on contracts which the corporation had no power to
make, a stockholder when sued by virtue of the constitution and laws of
Kansas in that behalf, may insist, in defence, on the invalidity of the
contracts.
On the facts found the judgment below is correct and is affirmed.

12, 1888, S. S. Hite and Mary L. Hite executed
and delivered to one J. E. Ethell their promissory notes in
writing of that date, whereby for value received they promised
to pay to the order of Ethell on September 12, i892, the principal sum named in each, with interest thereon at the rate of
seven per cent per annum, payable semi-annual]y, according
to the tenor of eight interest coupons bearing interest and attached to each of the notes; and afterwards and before the
maturity.of the notes, Etbell endorsed, transferred and delivSEPTEMBE9

WARD v. JOSLIN.
Statement of the Case.

ered them to Ward. At that time the Western Investment
Loan and Trust Company, a corporation of Kansas, guaranteed
in writing the payment of the notes in the following words endorsed on each: "For a valuable consideration the Western
Investment Loan and Trust Company hereby guarantees payment of the within obligation, both principal and interest, at
maturity." The notes not having been satisfied, Ward brought
suit against the Western Investment Loan and Trust Company
on the guaranties in the District Court of Smith County, Kansas, and recovered judgment against the company by default;
and execution having been issued on the judgment and returned nulla bona, Ward brought this action December 15,
1896, against Edward Joslin in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of New Hampshire to recover of him as
a stockholder in said Western Investment Loan and Trust Company, an amount equal to the amount of stock owned by him
in said corporation.
The declaration contained two counts. The first alleged the
recovery of judgment; the issue 6f execution and return null
bona; insolvency of the company July 1,1894, and its want of
"property or assets of any kind or value whatever;" that defendant was the owner of ofie hundred .shares of stock; and
that, "by reason of the premises and by virtue of the constitution and statutes of the State of Kansas, in such case made
and provided, a right of action hath accrued" to plaintiff.
The second count alleged that the loan and trust company
"was a corporation chartered and organized for the purpose
of transacting a general investment loan and trust business,
and under its charter, as it was authorized to do, endorsed
and guaranteed the payment of notes and obligations negotiated by it;" that these notes and coupons "were in fact negotiated by said corporation, the Western Investment Loan
and Trust Company, in the regular course of its business;"
that judgment was recovered and execution returned null
bona; "and that by reason of the premises and by virtue of
the constitution, statutes and laws of the State of Kansas in
such case made and provided," the right of action had accrued.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

Among other special matters set up in defence was "that
the claim against the Western Investment Loan and Trust
Company, upon which a judgment in favor of the plaintiff
against said company was founded, was not a debt due from or
debt of said corporation, for which the defendant as a stockholder in said corporation was liable under the constitution and
laws of Kansas." And that the Western Investment Loan and
Trust Company "never had any authority to endorse the said
promissory notes and obligations in the second count in plaintiff's declaration described, or to guarantee the payment of said
notes and obligations."
A jury was waived and the cause submitted to the Circuit
Court for trial, and the court made and filed its findings of
fact and conclusions of law.
After finding that the defendant was a stockholder of one
hundred shares of the par value of fifty dollars each in the
company in question, the findings thus continued:
"I find as matter of fact, upon the evidence contained in the
record, and upon the arguments, that Ward's claim against.the
trust company was upon a guaranty,•given upon a valuable consideration, of the payment of certain promissory notes from one
third party to another, and was not a guaranty of the payment
of securities negotiated by the company.
•"I find that the plaintiff brought an action at law in the
District Court of Smith County, in the State of Kansas,
against the trust company, on December 23, 1892, on these
guaranties,,by a writ served upon the president of said corporation, and on March, 1893, recovered judgment thereon
against the company for $9787.50, with interest at 12 per
cent; and, as shown in the record, on December 11, 1893,
$4924.75 was paid thereon, and on September 14, 1896, an
execution issued for the balance, and was returned wholly
unsatisfied as shown by the officer's return printed in the
record.
"I also find that the trust company was not a railway, religious or charitable corporation, and the business which the
corporation was authorized to do was ' to buy and sell personal property, including stocks, bonds, bills, notes, real and

WARD v. JOSLIN.
Statement of the Case.

chattel mortgages, and choses in action of every kind and desoription, and to transact the business of a loan and trust company; ' that some time after the organization of the company,
and before the defendant became a stockholder, the directors
thereof resolved ' that the president and secretary of the company be, and they hereby are, authorized to guarantee the payment of all securities negotiated by the company by endorsing
upon any such security one of the following forms of a guaranty;' and. the resolution of the corporation and the forms of
guaranties printed in the record are referred to and made a
part of the findings.
"Ascertaining the relations of the parties under the contract,
which resulted from the Kansas constitution and the statutes
and the defendant's ownership of stock, I find, so far as it is a
question of fact, that the dues to be secured by the superadded
stockholders' liability were such as were within the reasonable
and proper scope of the business as contemplated by the parties, and that a guaranty of this character was not intended by
the defendant stockholder, and was not contemplated by the
Kansas constitution as a due or a debt within such scope. I
also find, so far as it is a fact, that it was not within the scope of
the resolution which assumed to authorize the president and
secretary to guarantee securities negotiated by the company,
and there is no evidence that the defendant stockholder had
knowledge that the company was assuming, through its piesident and secretary, to guarantee the payment of claims not
negotiated by itself; and there being no evidence of notice, I
find, as a matter of fact, that he was not aware of it.
"I also make a general finding for the defendant."
The rulings of law were stated in the opinion of the court
set forth in the record, and reported 100 Fed. Rep. 676.
The Circuit Court ruled that "the relations of the parties are
contractual, and the term ' dues,' in the Kansas constitution
ought to be accepted as applying only to claims resulting from
the legitimate and contemplated business of the corporation or
company, such as arise in respect to transactions within the
reasonable scope of the business contemplated; and, as between
the creditor and stockholder, they should not be extended
VOL. CLXXXVI-0

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

to claims which arise from the transaction of unauthorized
business."
That "while under paragraph 1192 of the General Statutes
of Kansas providing a remedy, a judgment against the corporation may be accepted, under proper limitations, as conclusive,
in a proceeding against the stockholder as to the amount and
liability of the company upon claims in respect to transactions
within the coiltemplation of the constitution and of the parties
to the contract,'it should not be accepted as conclusive upon
the question. of the nature and character.of the claims, for the
reason that paragraph 1192 is only intehded to give a remedy
to the creditor in respect to the kind of claims contemplated by
the constitution. The judgment on this ground is accepted as
conclusive, because it relates to a corporate affair, and because
the stockholders' interests are supposed to be represented by
the officers of the bank in respect to affairs within the scope of
its contemplated, legitimate and authorized transactions;" but
the stockholder ought not to be concluded "as to the question
whether the foundation and nature of the claim were within
the fair intendment of the constitutional provision and the contract between the 'arties, upon the ground of representation,
for the reason- that such a question is not one which, in the
natural and usual course of litigation between the bank and the
creditor, would be presented or adjudicated."
That "the contract, under the constitution, is between the
creditor and the stockholder, and the bank, in a proceeding
against it by the creditor to which the stockholder was not a
party, would neither be called upon, nor be expected or allowed
to present such a question for .adjudication."
That "the amount of the bank's indebtedness, or its liability,
on a question of this kind, could and would be put in issue in
a suit between the creditor and the corporation; but whether
such a due is within the scope of the contract between the
creditor and the stockholder under the constitution would. not
and could not be put in issue in a suit between a creditor and
the bank to which the stockholder is not a party."
That "in the original case against the bank by the creditor,
the question as to the character of.the claim, whether it was one

WARD v. JOSLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

contemplated by the contract between the creditor 'and the
stockholder, was neither presented nor litigated, nor was it in a
situation to be presented or litigated; while in the case now
under consideration the question is not whether the olaim was
an indebtedness or a due for which the bank was liable, which
question was litigated and concluded by the judgment, but a
question whether it wqs the kind of a debt or. due which thestatutory contract between the creditor and stockholder covered
or contemplated. This precise question, as has been said, was
not presented, could not have been presented, in that case, and
therefore is not concluded." That this judgment came within
"an exception to the general rule that a judgment against the
corporation is conclusive."
Plaintiff moved for a new trial, which was denied, and judgment entered for defendant. The case was taken on error to
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit
and the judgment affirmed. 105 Fed. Rep. 224. This writ of
certiorari was then issued.
. . William Reed Bigelow for petitioner. .t.E. I. Wlaterman and .'&. Park B. Pusifer were on his brief.
.AXr. J. S. H. Frinkfor respondents.
M.

CHiEF JusTicE FuLLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
When a case is tried by the court without a jury, its findings
on questions of fact are conclusive, although open to the contention that there was no evidence on which they could be
based. The question remains whether or not the facts found
are sufficient to support the judgment, and rulings to which
exceptions are duly preserved may be reviewed.
Plaintiff excepted to the refusal of the court to rule that
upon all the evidence plaintiff was entitled to recover as matter
of law, and also to the refusal to make other rulings requested,
and to the rulings made. The correctness of these rulings was
questioned in fifteen errors assigned in the Circuit Court of
Appeals, but they need not be recapitulated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court found as facts that the guaranties on which
plaintiff's judgment in the state court was based were not
guaranties of the payment of securities negotiated by the company; that the business which the corporation was authorized
to do was "to buy'and sell personal property, including stocks,
bonds, bills, notes, real and chattel mortgages, and choses in
action of every kind and description, and to transact the business of a loan gnd trust company ;" that the guaranty of these
notes was not within the reasonable and proper scope of the
business of the company; and that defendant had no notice
that the company was assuming to guarantee the payment of
claims not negotiated by itself. The court referred to a resolution of the board of directors authorizing the guaranty of
securities negotiated by thb company, and found this guaranty
not within its scope.
This corporation was organized in 1888 under the general
laws of Kansas, authorizing the creation of loan and trust companies, by voluntary association as prescribed, with the powers,
among others, "to make by-laws, not inconsistent with existifig laws, for the management of its property, the regulation of
its affairs, and for the transfer of its stock;" and "to enter
into any obligation or contract essential to the transaction of
its ordinary affairs." The charter of each corporation was required to set forth "the purpose for which it is formed ;" and
the statute provided that: ".N o corporation created under the
provisions of this act, shall employ its stock, means, assets; or
other property, directly or indirectly, for any other purpose
whatever, than to accomplish the legitimate objects of its creation." Comp. Laws, Kan. 1885, p. 210, c. 23, §§ 5, 6, 11, 26.
The purposes for which the corporation was formed were set
forth in its charter, and were as found by.the Circuit Court.
The by-laws provided for a loan committee with power "to
discount or purchase bonds, bills, notes and other evidences of
debt," but did not embrace the power to guarantee. As before
stated, the Circuit Court found that these guaranties were not
"within the reasonable and proper scope of the business, as
contemplated by the parties."
The purview of the words "loan and trust" does not appear

WARD v. JOSLIN.
Opinion of the Court

to have been defined by statute or decision in Kansas, but the
leclaration alleged that this company was organized "for the
purpose of transacting a general investment loan and trust
business, buying and selling commercial paper, obligations and
securities," and it must be assumed that the general rule is
applicable that such companies have no implied power to lend
their credit, or to bind themselves by accommodation endorsements. They may guarantee paper owned by them, or paper
which they negotiate in due course of business and the proceeds
of which they receive, but the naked power to guarantee the
paper of one third party to another is not incidental to the
powers ordinarily exercised by them. The power as exercised
here was certainly not "essential to the transaction of its ordinary affairs," nor within "the legitimate objects of its creation." And so far as the question might be resolved by the
usage in Kansas, the findings were adverse to plaintiff.
In Commercial Bank v. Cheshire Provident Anstitution, 59
Kan. 361, a judgment against a bank on a guaranty, where the
record did not contain any of the evidence, and there was a
general finding for plaintiff, was sustained. The court said that
it must be presumed that the guaranty "was executed for a
valuable consideration, by the duly authorized officers of the
bank, and in due course of business;" and that while "it is
true that, in this case, the paper itself does not indicate that
the Commercial Bank ever owned it, nevertheless it may have
received the proceeds and the guaranty may have been made
strictly in the interest of the bank." But the findings in this
case take it out of the range of that decision and forbid resort
to presumption to make out validity.
We are of opinion that, upon the facts found, the guaranties
were given without authority.
The second section of article twelve of the constitution of
Kansas provides as follows: "Dues from corporations shall be
secured by individual liability of the stockholders to an additional amount equal to the stock owned by each stockholder;
and such other means as shall be provided by law; but such
individual liabilities shall not apply to railroad corporations,
nor corporations for religious or charitable purposes."

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

In Wroodworlk v. Bowles, 61 Kan. 569, it was held that this
constitutional, provision was not self-executing, but required
legislative action to give it effect.
Section thirty-two of chapter twenty-three of the Compiled
Laws of Kansas of 1885 provided that when an execution had
been issued against a corporation, and property could not be
found on which to levy it, then "execution may be issued
against any of the stockholders, to an extent equal in amount
to the amount of stock by him or her owned, together with any
amount unpaid thereon;

.

.

.

or the.plaintiff in the execu-

tion may proceed by action to charge the' stockholders with the
amount of his judgment."
Section 44: "If any corporation, created under this or any
general statute of this State, except railway or charitable or
religious corporations, be dissolved, leaving debts unpaid, suits
may be brought against any person or persons who were stockholders at the time of such dissolution, without joining the corSection 45: ",If any stock."
poration in such suit;
holder pay more than his due proportion of any debt of the
corporation, he may compel contribution from the other stockholders by action."' Section 46: " No stockholder shall be
liable to pay debts of the corporation, beyond the amount due
on his stock, 'and an additional amount equal to the stock owned
by him." These sections were all carried forward into the
Complied Laws of 1889, with the same chapter and numbers,
but that compilation also gives a general number, and the general1 number of. section 32 is 1192. There was no compilation
from 1889 to 1897. Sections 32, 44, 45 and 46 reappear in
sections 49,50, 51 and 53 of chapter 66 of the General Statutes
of 1897.
The word "dues" thus appears to have been regarded as
equivalent to debts or that which is owing. Mr. Justice Story
in United States v. Bank, 6 Pet. 29, 36, said, in construing the
statute there referred to: "The whole difficulty arises from
the different senses in which the word 'due' is used. It is
sometimes used to -express the mere state of indebtment, and
then is an equivalent to owed or owing. And it is sometimes
used to express the fact that the debt has become payable."

WARD v. JOSLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

In Whitma' v. Oxford -NationalBank, 176 U. S. 559, it was
said that: "The word ' dues' is one of general significance, which
includes all contractual obligations." Can an obligation which
a corporation had no right to incur be a contractual obligati6n
and the basis of:." dues," as that word is used in the state coistitution? We -do not think so. It appears to as that it-was
not intended by that instrument to impose individual liability
on stockholders in respect of risks which they had not undertaken.
One of the grounds on which the doctrine of ultra vires rests,
is that the interest of the stockholders ought not to be subjected
to such risks. Rights of stockholders must be considered as
well as those of creditors, and they should not be held directly
liable unless such liability was within their contract in legal
contemplation.
The rule in this court is that a contract made by. a 'corporaion beyond the scope of its powers, expressed or implied, cannot be enforced, or rendered enforcible, by the application of
the principle of estoppel. The rule in Kansas seems to be that
when the contract has .been executed and the corporation has
received the benefits of it, the corporation is estopped from
questioning its validity, and so in respect of evidences of indebtedness purchased before maturity in good faith and without
notice. Atchison, Topeka & Santa .Fj Railroad Company v.
Fletcher,35 Kan. 236; 87terman Center Town Company v. fforris,43 Kan. 282; Alexandria, Arcadia & Fort Smith Railroad
Company v. Johnson, 58 Kan. 1M5. But we are not persuaded
that if the defence of ultra vires had been interposed in the
action against this company, and the facts had been found to
be as they have been found here, the defence would not have
been sustained in the courts of Kansas. If, however, under
the state decisions, the corporation would be held estopped from
denying the liability, it does not follow that the stockholders
must therefore be held liable, if the obligation was iv ,'lct incurred without authority. In other words, alleged liabilities
incurred without authority, and which do not conie within the
meaning of the word " d ues," as used in the state constitution,
cannot be properly treated as brought within the scope of that

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

word, simply because the corporation may be so situated as to
be estopped from denying their validity.
Whether in this case the corporation would have been held
estopped if it had made the defence of ultra vires, it did not
make it, and judgment went against it. We have held such
judgments conclusive in proceedings under the Kansas constitution. National Bank v. Farnhkam, 176 U. S. 640. But we
did not there bold that it was not open for a stockholder to
show that the judgment was not enforcible against him when
rendered against the corporation on a contract beyond its power
to make. It must be remembered that in the case before us
the right of action accrued, and the action was accordingly
averred to have been brought, "by virtue of the constitution
and the statutes of the State of Kansas in such case made and
provided." We think it was not error to permit the stockholder
to go behind the judgment so far as to show, or, at all events,
to insist, for the judgment record introduced below disclosed the
invalidity of the guaranties, that he was not liable under that
constitution and those laws.
In Schraderv. Manufacturing Coinpany, 133 U. S.67, it was
ruled that although the individual liability of the stockholders
of a national bank, as imposed by and expressed in the statute,
was for all its contracts, debts and engagements, "that must
be restricted in its meaning to such contracts, debts and engagements as have been duly contracted in the ordinary course of
its business;" and that a judgment recovered against the bank
in a suit commenced some years after it went into liquidation
"was not binding on the stockholders in the sense that it could
not be reexamined."
In Brownsville v. Loague, 129 U. S. 493, it was held that
"if a petitioner for a writ of mandamus to compel the levy of
a tax to pay a debt evidenced by a judgment recovered on
coupons of municipal bonds is obliged to go behind the judgment in order to obtain his remedy, and it appears that the
bonds were void, and that the municipality was without power
to tax to pay them, the principle of resjudicatadoes not apply
upon the question of issuing the writ." The petition in that
case set up the judgment and averred that "petitioner's only

NESBITT v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

remedy to enforce the collection of his judgments is that awarded
by the act authorizing the issue of the bonds from which the
coupons were detached upon which said judgments were obtained." .Andwe held that as the relator was compelled to go
behind the judgments as money judgments merely, "to obtain
the remedy pertaining to the bonds, the court cannot decline to
take cognizance of the fact that the bonds are utterly void and
that no such remedy exists."
As then- the provision of the constitution of the State of
Kansas, if properly construed, imposes the liability in question
only in respect of corporate indebtedness lawfully incurred, that
is to say, in respect of dues resulting in regular course of business and in the exercise of powers possessed, plaintiff cannot recover in this action by virtue of the constitution and laws of the
State, on the facts found, and the judgment must be affirmed.
As to the denial of the motion for new trial it is not within our
province to interfere with the discretion of the Circuit Court.
Judgment afl2rmed.
MR.JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the argument or take any part

in the decision.

NESBITT v. 'UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLADIS.
19, 1902.
No. 578. Submitted April 18, 1902.-Decided MBay

This was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims, sustaining a
plea to the jurisdiction of the court to hear a petition filed by appellants, under the Indian Depredation Act of 1891. The plea was sustained.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mrs. BeZva A. Lockwood for appellants.
Mr. William H. Robeson filed a brief for samne.

