LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD v. KEARNEY.

461

Syllabus.

was also asked as incidental to the principal relief against the
collection of a particular tax levied to meet the interest on the
bonds. The leading question here was whether the case had
been properly removed from the state court, and no consideration was given to the case upon the merits. As to the jurisdiction of this court, we said: "The main question at issue
was the validity of the bonds, and that involved the levy and
collection of taxes for a series of years to pay interest thereon,
and finally the principal thereof, and not the mere restraining
of the tax for a single year. The grievance complained of
was common to all the plaintiffs and to all whom they professed to represent. The relief sought could not be legally
injurious to any of the taxpayers of the county, as such, and
the interest of those who did not join in or authorize the suit
was indentical with the interest of the plaintiffs. The rule
applicable to plaintiffs, each claiming under a separate and
distinct right, in respect to a separate and distinct liability and
that contested by the adverse party, is not applicable here.
For although as to the tax for the particular year, the injunction sought might restrain only the amount levied against
each, that order was but preliminary, and was not the main
purpose of the bill, but only incidental. The amount in dispute, in view of the main controversy, far exceeded the limit
upon our jurisdiction, and disposes of the objection of appel,
lees in that regard."
Decree ajfirmed.

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY v.
KEARNEY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

TIlE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 314.

Argued April 26, 29, 1895. -Decided

May 27, 1895.

Reissued letters patent No. 5181, granted to Francis Kearney and Luke F.
Tronson December 10, 1872, for an improvement in spark-arresters, are
void for want of patentable novelty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Appellees.

Tins was a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of New Jersey by Francis
Kearney and Mary F. Tronson, executrix of Luke F. Tronson,
deceased, against the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company, for
the alleged infringement of reissued letters patent of the United
States No. 5184, granted to Francis Kearney and Luke F.
Tronson, December 10, 1872, for an improvement in sparkarresters, the original patent having been granted April 20,
1871, No. 113,528. Mary F. Tronson having died since the
appeal was taken, Elwood C. Harris was substituted as administrator, etc.
The railroad company relied on these defences: 1. That
the reissue was illegal and void because the original patent
was not inoperative by reason of a defective or insufficient
specification, or any error arising from inadvertence, accident,
or mistake; that the scope of the patent had been enlarged
so as to cover another and different invention from the
original, and that new matter had been introduced into the
specification; 2. That the alleged invention covered by the
reissue patent was not patentable since the change from prior
forms of spark-arresters was not productive of any improved
or materially different result; 3. That the reissue patent was
void for want of substantial novelty in the subject-matter
.thereof in view of the prior state of the art as shown in
certain enumerated patents; 4. Non-infringement.
The case was heard on bill, answer, and proofs, and resulted
in a decree for injunction, and referring the case to a master
to take an account of the gains and profits accruing to the
company by reason of infringement and of the damages
suffered by complainants thereby. The master subsequently
reported, and a final decree was rendered against the defendant for the sum. of $6235.52, whereupon the case was brought
to this court on appeal. The opinion of the Circuit Court
will be found reported, 32 Fed. Rep. 320.
i r. Robert J. Fisher and Mr. Charles E..
.Mitchellfor appellant.
/Mr. Elwood C. hMarris for appellees.

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD v. KEARNEY.

463

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case as above,
delivered the' opinion of the court.
Kearney and Tronson applied January 5, 1871, for letters
patent for a certain "improvement in spark-arresters for
locomotives," which application was rejected on reference to
patent to James L. Vauclain, August 20, 1861, and after
various amendments was allowed, and the patent issued April
11, 1871. The following is the specification of the application
and of the patent as allowed, the parts stricken out by amendment being in brackets and the parts inserted being in italics:
"The improvement relates to effectually preventing hot coals
passing from the chimneys of locomotives, [by a peculiar
manner of] arresting them before they get to the chimney.
"On the forward end of a locomotive boiler is an extension,
on the top of which is the chimney or smoke-stack. This
receptacle of all that passes [from the fire] through the boiler
flues to the smoke-stack is technically known as the smokehead; the pipes from the boiler to the engine pass through
the smoke-head, and the steam is exhausted thereinto from
the cylinders. In the unoccupied space in this smoke-head
we place a grate, [formed either with bars or of netting, or
perforated plates; the shape is not material; we make them
circular, as being most convenient in ordinary cases. It is
best there should be a clear space on all sides or around the
grate] the peculiar features qf which are its perpendicular
bars with fixed apertures sefficiently fine to stop the sparks that
come from the fire, the size of the grate being determined by
the area of opening needed for the regular draft and escape of
smoke on kindling the fire, or when the engine is not in Motion.
"Upon the top of the grating a tube or pipe is fitted,
extending upward a short distance above the top of the
smoke-head into the chimney. A space is left around the top
of the pipe between the edges of the aperture in the top of
the smoke-head and the pipe. This space is covered with
netting or grating to prevent sparks or coals from passing
through into the chimney.
"In the accompanying drawings, Figure 1 is a view, in see-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court,

tion, of the front of the smoke-head, with the gratings and pipe
in position. Figure 2 is a side view of the end of the boiler
and of the smoke-head. A is the boiler. B, the flues. C, the
smoke-head. D, the grate. E, the pipe on the top of the
grate. F is the netting closing the aperture between the pipe
and the smoke-head. G is the chimney or smoke-stack; and
I, the exhaust pipes from the engines.
"It will be seen that nothing but smoke and gas can pass
the top netting F, and that no coals or dangerous sparks can
pass into the chimney, they being arrested by the grate D
without having received any impulse from the exhaust pipes.
The strong draft created by the exhausting steam up the pipe
into the chimney brings the coals and sparks to the grating,
against which they strike and fall harmless into the space in
[The force of coals drawn from the fire
the smoke-head.
when impelled by the exhaust steam up the chimney is such
as to cut through netting, and even cast iron over a quarter of
an inch thick, in two or three months, in any description of
spark-arresters located in the smoke-stack.]
"By our arrangement the gases that are returned by contrivances that turn sparks downward in the smoke-stack, and
sometimes force open the fire-door, have a clear passage to
the atmosphere.
"[What we claim and desire to secure is"1. The grate D, pipe E, the net or grate F, as and for the
purpose specified and shown.
"2. Combining a spark-arrester with the smoke-head of a
locomotive in the manner and for the purpose hereinabove set
forth.]
" Ie disclaim all draft-regulating contrivances, and also all
gratings with lateral adjustable openings. WVhat we do clain
as our improvement, and desire to secure, is- The grate _D
with longitudinal bars, as and for the purposes specified and
shown."
On June 7, 1872, Kearney and Tronson applied for a reissue,
which was rejected on reference to James L. Vauclain, smokestack, August 20, 1861; Weideman, Major and Sample, sparkarrester, December 20, 1870; and James Smith, spark-arrester,

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD v. KEARNEY.

465

Opinion of the Court.

March 7, 1871; and after amendment was allowed, and the
reissue granted December 10, 1872.
The following is the specification of the application and of
the reissue as allowed, the parts stricken out being bracketed
and the parts inserted italicized:
"Figure 1 is a vertical cross-section of the smoke-box of a
locomotive with our improvements attached, and
"Figure 2 is a vertical longitudinal section of the same, and
a portion of the boiler.
"The letters of reference indicate the same parts in both
figures.
"A represents a portion of the boiler of a locomotive. B is
a space, commonly called the smoke-box. CC are the flues at
the point where they enter the smoke-box; E is a pipe extending from within the base of the smoke-stack down into the
smoke-box, and commonly termed a 'petticoat pipe;' D is a
grating placed at the lower part of the petticoat pipe to prevent any cinders or sparks passing into the same; F is a netting or grating placed around the top of the petticoat pipe so
as to cover the annular opening caused by the difference in
size of the upper part of the petticoat pipe and the bottom of
the smoke-stack G. H is a piece of boiler plate or sheet iron
placed at the bottom of the smoke-box in order to provide a
flat surface for the grate D to rest upon, and is provided with
holes, through which the exhaust pipes II pass.
"Our improvements relate to providing locomotives with a
suitable device for preventing live coals, cinders, sparks, and
like substances, which may leave the furnace, from passing
into or out of the smoke-stack, and to retain them in the smokebox, from which place they may be removed at pleasure.
"It has heretofore been the practice to cover the tops of
smoke-stacks of locomotives with a wire netting or grating, for
the purpose of preventing the escape of sparks and cinders;
and, in some cases, an inverted metal cone is also placed in the
centre of such netting or grating to receive and break the force
of the cinders as they are thrown against it.
"In all of these contrivances the cinders receive so much
force from the exhausting steam while on their way up the
VOL. CLVIII-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

petticoat pipe and smoke-stack that they very soon destroy
the netting or grating placed at the top of the smoke-stack,
and where a cone or other device is used to turn the cinders
downwards and partially protect the grating the gases are
also retarded in their escape.
" In order to overcome these difficulties, we place a grating,
D, at or near the lower end of the petticoat pipe E so as to surround the exhaust pipes II, and prevent any cinders or sparks
entering the pipe E, while allowing free passage for the smoke
and gases. We also place a grating or netting, F, around the
top of the petticoat pipe to cover the aperture left between it
and the smoke-stack in order to arrest any sparks or cinders
that may be drawn to that point.
"[In the construction of the grating E we prefer to use
vertical bars as shown in the drawing, but any style or kind
of grating may be used that will prevent cinders or sparks fron
entering the petticoat pipe, such as a perforated surface or a
grating formed in any manner desired, and the apertures or perforations may be regulated in size and area of surface covered
by the amount of opening required for the regular draught and
escape of smoke on kindling the fire or when the engine is not
in motion.] " We construct the grating D with straight vertical bars of iron,placed at small distances apart, but these spaces
should be such, in the aggregate, as will be sufficient for the
draught and escape of the smoke, on kindling the fie, or when
the engine is not in motion.
"By this arrangement nothing but smoke and gas are allowed to pass the netting F, and no coals or dangerous sparks
can pass out of the smoke-box into the petticoat pipe, they
being arrested by the grating D before having received any
very great impulse by reason of the exhaust pipes. The
strong draught up the pipe E and smoke-stack brings the
greatest portion of the cinders and sparks to the grating
D, against which they strike and fall harmless to the bottom of the smoke-box, while the smoke and gases have free
and uninterrupted egress through the petticoat pipe and
smoke-stack, they being perfectly clear; and the gratings D
and F are not liable to be injured by the cinders striking

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD v, KEARNEY.

467

Opinion of the Court.

against them, as they are arrested before having obtained the
force they would have if allowed to pass up into the smokestack.
"What we claim as our invention, and desire to secure by
letters patent, is " [First. Placing a grating in the smoke-box of a locomotive
to prevent sparks or cinders entering the petticoat pipe, substantially as described and shown.
" [Second. The combination of the grating D with the netting F, substantially as and for the purposes described and
shown.]
"First. The grating D, with vertical bars placed at the
foot of the spark or petticoat pipe E, in the manner and for
the purpose substantially as described.
"Second. The combination of the grating D with the netting F, in the manner and for the purpose substantially as
described."
The drawings accompanying the reissue were, with some
difference of lettering, practically the same as accompanied
the original application, and were as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

As to the original specification, it will be perceived that the
application was for a patent spark-arrester placed in the smokebox of a locomotive in contradistinction to a spark-arrester
placed in the smoke-stack, and it was said that the sparkarrester might be "formed either with bars or of netting, or
perforated plates; the shape is not material; we make them
circular, as being most convenient in ordinary cases;" but
after the application was rejected on reference to the Vauclain
patent of August 20, 1861, the specification was changed so
as to disclaim the construction of Vauclain, and the claim of
a combination of "a spark-arrester with the smoke-head of a

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD v. KEARNEY.
Opinion of

469

the Court.

locomotive" was altered to a claim for "the grate D with
longitudinal bars," the specification being amended accordingly. The construction of the grate "either with bars or of
netting, or perforated plates," was changed into "perpendicular bars with fixed apertures, sufficiently fine to stop the
sparks which come from the fire," and the clause that "the
force of coals drawn from the fire when impelled by the exhaust steam up the chimney is such as to cut through netting,
and even cast iron over a quarter of an inch thick, in two or
three months, in any description of spark-arresters located in
the smoke-stack," was struck out. The claim, taken with the
specification and drawings, covered the combination in the
smoke-box of a locomotive engine, of a petticoat pipe with
a spark-arresting grating composed of longitudinal bars, and
as no other form was described or illustrated and the grating
was designated by the reference letter, it followed that it must
be of the form shown in the drawings, namely, a series of long
bars placed vertically with long openings between them extending from the top to the bottom of the grating.
The rule is that where the applicant acquiesces in the rejection of claims by the Patent Office or in a construction which
narrows or restricts them, and where the elements which go
to make up the combination of the claim are mentioned specifically and by reference letters, leaving no room for question
as to what was intended, the claim must be confined and
restricted to the particular device described. Knapp v. Morss,
150 U. S. 221.
We find nothing in the specification to indicate that the use
of the vertical bars was patentably different from the netting
or perforated plates originally stated to be equivalent devices,
and no new result produced by the use of those bars is pointed
out. As to the specification of the reissue application, it will
have been seen that what was omitted before because rejected
by the Patent Office was restored, and it was again stated that
the form of the grating was not material, but that any kind
of apertures or perforations might be used, though a preference was expressed for the use of vertical bars as shown in the
drawing. There was in the reissue a description of a piece of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

boiler plate or sheet iron at the bottom of the smoke-box providing a flat surface for the grate to rest on, and having holes
for the passage of the exhaust pipe, and this plate, letter HI in
the reissued drawings, was not described in the original patent,
although in the original drawing there was a faint line running
across the smoke-box which might be said to be such plate, as
the grate could not stand on nothing. The disclaimer was
also omitted. The claims of the reissue patent as filed were:
1st. Placing a grating in the smoke-box of a locomotive to
prevent sparks or cinders entering the petticoat pipe, substantially as described and shown; 2d. The combination of the
grating D with the netting F, substantially as and for the purposes described and shown. These were substantially the same
claims as were made on the original application and afterwards
abandoned. The reissue application having been rejected,
these claims were struck out and two others substituted, the
second of which was substantially the same as the original
second reissue claim, and the first of which limited the invention to the specific form of grating shown ; and the specification was amended by erasing the matter which provided that
the form of grating was immaterial, and inserting the paragraph stating the construction of the grating D, with straight
vertical bars of iron, placed at small distances apart.
We are of opinion that the patent was limited to a grating
composed of vertical bars and the spaces between them, the
bars being attached at their upper ends to the bottom of the
petticoat pipe.
Ordinarily the tubes for heating water in locomotive boilers
lead from the fire-box into the smoke-stack; and smoke, gases
and cinders are discharged into the atmosphere through the
smoke-stack, propelled by the draft created by the exhaust
steam. To arrest the discharge of sparks and cinders, locomotives were provided years before the date of this patent with
various devices known as spark-arresters.
On the hearing, several forms of pipe into which the exhaust
steam is discharged through exhaust-nozzles were referred to
as long in use; particularly that shown in the Kearney and
Tronson patent, technically known as a petticoat pipe, in

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD v. KEARNEY.

471

Opinion of the Court.

which the pipe is greater in diameter at the bottom and an
opening is left between the top of the pipe and the opening
for the stack leading out of the top of the smoke-box, and
guarded by a screen; and that shown in the Mlay patent,
where the pipe is a downward extension of the smoke-stack
into the smoke-box, and there is no opening around the pipe
at the point at which it passes through the top of the smokebox. In the petticoat pipe there are two points of entry into
the stack, one at the top and one at the bottom of the pipe
in the other the point of entry is at the bottom.
The patents referred to by the Patent Office and others
were introduced on behalf of defendant to show the state of
the art at the tine of the grant to Kearney and Tronson.
The patent granted to Hubbell, June 26, 1841, for a sparkarrester, No. 2143, furnishes an example of a spark-arrester
below the base of the smoke-stack, and this patent shows that
in that year a cylinder of perforated metal or wire gauze could
be used for arresting sparks at the front end of a locomotive
and within the smoke-box. The patent to May, July 28, 1857,
No, 17,884, showed a spark-arrester in a locomotive smoke-box,
the two exhaust-nozzles entering a drum made of perforated
plates of metal or wire gauze. This drum, at the upper end,
is attached to a downward prolongation of the stack into the'
smoke-box. May's claim was: "My arrangement of the sparkarrester within the smoke-box of the locomotive steam-boiler
so that the stack or chimney shall be prolonged down into
the smoke-box and made of wire gauze or perforated plates,
and otherwise so constructed as specified that the entire track
of the smoke shall be through the gauze or perforated plates."
He sets forth "the advantages of making the spark-arrester
within the smoke-box instead of placing it within the chimney
or in a chamber arranged above the smoke-box, and made to
communicate therewith by a flue."
Fig. 1 of May's drawings is as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

lt
III lI
The patent of Vauclain of August 20, 1861, No. 33,114, has
a similar cage or grating to that of May's patent and the same
arrangement of downward extension of stack and exhaust
nozzles, but there is a screened opening at the top of the cage
for the passage of smoke and gases, and the perforations are
horizontal. These apertures, as stated in the specification,
may consist chiefly or wholly of latitudinal slots, and the
drawings show that the perforations are quite elongated.
In the opinion of the Circuit Court it is said that the apertures appear, from the drawing, to be cut out of sheet iron,
and that such a screen "could not be said to be made of iron
bars, which are the thing patented to the plaintiffs, but it'
approaches very near to it. The slots and iron strips are also
placed horizontally, whilst the plaintiffs' patent is for a grate
with vertical bars." But there is no suggestion in the patent
that the perforated screen is made of sheet metal. Nothing is
said in the specification as to material, and the drawings do
not impress us as affording a satisfactory basis for the conclusion that the material was sheet rather than cast iron.

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD v. KEARNEY.

470

Opinion of the Court.

Fig. 1 of this patent is as follows:
Z Y1Z

In the patent to Sweet, dated June 23, 1863, No. 38,992, the
exhaust nozzles enter a hollow cylinder made of wire gauze,
and the screens are described as being either in the form of a
cylinder or the frustrum of a cone.
In Smith's patent of August 16, 1870, No. 106,515, a device
of perforated metal is used. This patent shows the exhaust
nozzles as entering the frustrum of a cone formed of perforated
metal which at the top unites with a downward extension of
the chimney, the perforations extending up to the smoke-arch,
and outside of the spark-arrester is a lift pipe which may be
made adjustable.
The patent to Weideman, Major and Sample, of December
20, 1870, No. 110,315, shows a spark-arrester of finely-perforated metal, a petticoat pipe, and what is called a draft pipe.
Smith's patent of March 7, 1871, No. 112,506, describes a

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

spark-arrester consisting of a grated tubular casing made by a
continuous bar of wrought iron coiled spirally in horizontal
coils, or of cast-iron rings, one above the other, lying horizontally and strung to upright rods to keep them a proper distance apart, "or, the grating may be made in any other desired
manner, providing it presents rigid bars for the hard ignited
cinders to strike against, and providing there are openings
sufficient in number and size to permit the free escape of
lighter particles with the products of combustion." This was
held by the Circuit Court to closely approach the invention
patented by the plaintiff, the only difference being that the
coiled wrought-iron bar and the cast-iron bars or rings were
horizontally arranged, whilst plaintiff's patent required the
bars to be vertical, but the Circuit Court was of opinion that
this patent should be laid out of view because plaintiff's application was sworn to December 31, 1870, and filed in the Patent Office, January 5, 1871, and the time of the filing of
Smith's application was not shown. It should, perhaps, be
noted that as Kearney and Tronson modified their claims on
the reissue upon the citation of this patent with those of
Vauclain, and Weideman, Major and Sample, they apparently
conceded the seniority of Smith's invention.
These patents show that, prior to Kearney and Tronson's
invention, spark-arresters had long been placed at the base of
the smoke-stack in connection with a petticoat pipe or a downward extension of the stack; that the advantage of placing a
spark-arrester in the smoke-box instead of in the smoke-stack
was recognized as early as the May patent, July 28, 1857;
that the exhaust nozzles had been led into the base of such
arresters, and that such arresters had been made from wire
gauze and from perforated metal, the apertures producing in
one instance horizontal gratings.
The spark-arrester with vertical slots or perforations, used
by defendant, until discontinued upon the commencement of
this suit, was devised by its own employ~s and was used in
ignorance of complainants' patent as matter of fact and taken
out upon notice of the claim for infringement. This sparkarrester was originally constructed under the patent to Alex-

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD v. KEARNEY.

475

Opinion of the Court.

ander Mitchell, No. 178,181, May 30, 1876, and was provided
with round perforations, afterwards changed so that the perforations were elongated.
The device is in substance as follows:

'.

Cast ixo, *oleV

C.

F. 5,.*
4z. et.-

n...
to
ow

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

What is claimed is that these apertures are an infringement
because they are upright, although conceded that if rectangular they would not infringe.
The defendant's expert testified, correctly as we think, in
regard to this device as compared with that described and
claimed in the reissue patent, that in defendant's structure
there is no such grating as the grating D, with vertical bars,
"but there is, on the other hand, a grating made up of short
vertical slots, only about three and a quarter inches in length,
which none of them run the entire height, or even half the
height of the spark-arrester. It takes five of the short slots
of the defendant's structure, with the accompanying crosspieces, to make up the height of the defendant's device.
Neither in the defendant's device is the grating made of vertical bars, but it is a casting, having slots in it, which slots, it
is true, are longer vertically than they are horizontally, but
which slots are not spaces formed between and by vertical
bars arranged close together." As to the second element in
the combination of the first claim, the petticoat pipe, it is the
function of that pipe to produce "two lines of draught from the
smoke-box, one through the grating D and up through the petticoat pipe, and the other from the smoke-box around the
outer and upper edge of the petticoat pipe, and as shown in
complainants' patent through the grating F." And the petticoat pipe within the smoke-box is not present in defendant's
structure.
In respect of the second claim of the patent, which relates
to the netting F over the opening at the upper end of the
petticoat pipe, both Kearney and his expert admit that there
is no infringement, as there is no such opening and no such
netting in defendant's device. Something was said about
complainants' grating being of cast metal, but there is nothing on this subject in complainants' patent, and they were
not pioneer inventors entitled to inVoke a broad range of
equivalents.
We have already seen that IKearney and Tronson, who were
experienced and practical railroad men, declared in their original applications for the patent and for the reissue, that the

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILRUOAD v. KEARNEY.

477

Opinion of the Court.

shape of their grating was not material, and that it might be
made either from bars or netting or perforated plates; and if
their particular construction of grate with the long vertical
bars was a mere equivalent for the grates shown in the prior
patents, then it would not be a patentable invention, but a
mere change of form.
And we do not understand the specifications to set up any
new or improved result by the grating composed of vertical
bars, (although the advantage resulting from placing the sparkarrester in the smoke-box, which was old, was shown,) nor do
we find from the evidence that the change of form constituted
any advance in the art.
It appears that a spark-arrester such as Kearney and Tronson's was used upon a few locomotives on the Morris and Essex
Railroad, of which Kearney and Tronson were emnploy(3s,
Tronson being the master mechanic, and that the use was discontinued after a year or so; that it was used experimentally
on a locomotive on the Central Railroad of New Jersey, and
on one of the Troy and Whitehall Railroad; but a careful
consideration of the evidence, which we deem it unnecessary
to review in detail, convinces us that Kearney and Tronson
originally correctly averred that bars, or perforated plates, or
wire nettings, were equivalent devices, and that a grating
with vertical bars was not productive of any better result than
was accomplished by the prior devices.
Upon the whole, therefore, we conclude that the Kearney
and Tronson reissue is void for want of patentable novelty.
Decree reversed and cause remanded with a direction to
dismiss the bill.

