OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

BOYD v. JANESVILLE HAY TOOL COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE
THE

CIRCUIT
WESTERN

No. 805.

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

Argued April 23, 24, 1895. -

l)eided May 20, 1895.

Under letters patent No. 300,687, granted June 17, 1884, to John M. Boyd for

improvements in hay elevators and carriers, the patentee, in view of the
state of the art, was entitled, at most, only to the precise devices mentioned in the claims, and that patent, so construed, is not infringed by
machines constructed under patent No. 279,889, granted June 19, 1883,
to F. B. Strickler.

JOHN M. Boyd filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Wisconsin against the
Janesville IHay Tool Company and its officers, charging the defendants with infringement of letters patent granted the complainant, numbered as No. 300,687, and dated June 17, 1884,
for an improvement in hay elevators and carriers.
The answer denied that complainant was the original and
first inventor, and alleged anticipating patents, prior knowledge and use by others, and that defendants have made and
sold hay carriers in accordance with patent No. 279,889,
granted June 19, 1883, to F. B. Strickler.
There was a general replication; evidence was put in ; on
November 9, 1888, a decree was entered dismissing the bill of
complaint, and from this decree an appeal was taken to this

court.

-Mr. Curtis Y'. Benedict for appellant.
Mr. G]arle8 K

Q0/ield for appellee.

MR. JUSTICi
StIRAS, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

John M. Boyd, the appellant, filed his application on
October 25, 1882, and, after several amendments, letters patent were granted him on June 17, 1884, and numbered as No.

BOYD v. JANESVILLE HAY TOOL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

300,687. The specification discloses that the invention has
relation to improvements in hay elevators and carriers, and
consists in the peculiar construction of the several parts and
in their combination and arrangement. There are fourteen
claims, of which twelve appear to be for combinations of parts,
and two for specific devices which are claimed to be novel.
It clearly appears that Boyd was not a pioneer in this department of machinery. Many inventors had preceded him,
and many patents had been issued for improvements in hay
carriers in form and purpose similar to those described in
Boyd's specification. We think the case is one where, in view
of the state of the art, the patentee is only entitled, at the
most, to the precise devices mentioned in the claims.
It is conceded that the defendants, before this suit was commenced, were manufacturing and selling hay carriers made
under the Strickler patent, No. 279,889, dated June 19, 1883;
and it is claimed, on behalf of the appellant, that, as the application for the Strickler patent was filed on May 15, 1883, several
months after Boyd's application, the Strickler patent furnishes
no defence to the defendants if the machines made and sold
by them infringed any of the Boyd claims.
Upon the assumption that, owing to the previous condition
of the art, Boyd is to be restricted to the exact and specific
devices claimed by him as novel, we do not deem it necessary
to determine whether either Boyd or Strickler invented anything, because we think that the appellant has failed to show
that the defendants have used the particular devices to which
Boyd can be considered entitled: Our discussion, therefore,
will be confined to the question of infringement.
As both applications were pending in the Patent Office at
the same time, and as the respective letters were granted, it is
obvious that it must have been the judgment of the officials
that there was no occasion for an interference, and that
there were features which distinguished one invention from
the other. In Pavement Co. v. City of Elizabeth, 4 Fish,
189, Mr. Justice Strong said: " The grant of the letters
patent was virtually a decision of the Patent Office that there
is a substantial difference between the inventions. It raises

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the presumption that, according to the claims of the latter
patentees, this invention is not an infringement of the earlier
patent." It would also seem to be evident that, as the purpose of the invention was the same, and as the principal parts
of the respective machines described were substantially similar, it was also the judgment of the office that the distinguishing features were to be found in some of the smaller and, perhaps, less important devices described and claimed. Burns v.
Meyer, 100 U. S. 671.
We find it useful to adopt the following description of the
Boyd invention, given in appellant's brief:
"This carrier involves novel features, which may be stated
in a general way as follows:
"The stop A, (adapted to be secured to the under side of a
single track,) having the continuous lugs 763 inclined upwardly
from each end of the stop to the centre, and therewith the
downwardly inclined lugs or bearings h4 ; the stop being
adapted to lift the catch coming to it from either direction
to engage the catch and prevent the travel of the carrier;
to force the catch down (if it fails to fall by gravity) as it
leaves the stop, and to permit the carrier to run past it when
desired. The catch (or key) g sliding vertically in the carrier,
having lugs adapted to catch the inclines of the stop and be
lifted thereby; and (being held up by the grapple) to engage
the stop and prevent travel of the carrier on the track; and
when released to I drop' in front of and lock the grapple.
"The combination of the vertically-sliding catch g, with the
stop aforesaid, and with the tilting grapple, by which the
catch or key is lifted by the stop into locking engagement
with said stop, and is locked thereto by the grapple, and being
released falls or is forced down by the stop into locking
engagement with the grapple."
We learn from this description that what the counsel of
the appellant regards as the special features of the Boyd
invention are the stop A, the catch g, and their combination
in the manner pointed out. And when we turn to the evidence of the appellant's expert, Cunningham, we find that, in
analyzing the Boyd machine, he dwells chiefly on the functions

BOYD v. JANESVILLE HAY TOOL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

J. M. BOYD.

Hay Elevator and Carrier.

yJP

Patented June 17, 1884.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of the stop and of the catch, as constituting its meritorious
features, and that the effect and purpose of his testimony, as
likewise that of Boyd himself, are to show that there are a
similar stop and catch in the defendants' carrier.
So, too, in the letters patent we find Boyd's second claim
set forth as follows:
"In a hay elevator and carrier, the combination, substantially as described and shown, of the stop A, constructed with
the upper lugs A4 and the lower inclined lugs /6 and the catchblock g, provided with the lugs g3, and placed and sliding in a
suitable recess in the body of the carrier, substantially as and
for the purposes set forth."
When we examine the machine as made and sold by the
defendants, under the terms of the Strickler patent, we do
not find these specific devices, or, rather, we do not find them
in the shape and with the functions claimed by Boyd.
The comparison made by the defendants' expert, Powers,
between the mechanism of the two inventions, in the particulars we are now considering, was as follows:
"I do not find the Boyd invention, as summed up in the
second claim of his patent, in defendants' carrier, for these
reasons: First. The stop enumerated in the -second claim of
Boyd has a peculiar construction, having lugs A4 upon its upper
outer ends and lower inclined lugs 16. Defendants' stop has
no occasion for Boyd's lugs / 4, nor has it any such lugs;
neither are they necessary for the operation of the catch-block.
Defendants' catch-block has only sufficient space between its
lugs and its opposite lower portion to allow it to play freely
up and down the incline of its stop, and would, therefore,
work just the same upon its stop without the upper ledge as
it would with it. It will even be noticed that the portion of
the stop below the lugs is rounded and adapted to coact with
the lugs upon a single inclined or lower ledge, and independent
of an upper ledge. This fact is fully demonstrated by operating defendants' catch-block upon the cam plate, upon which
there is no upper ledge. Thus, the stop of Strickler is, and
may be, a differently constructed device from that of Boyd,
and such a construction as leaves entirely out a leading es-

BOYD v.

JANESVILLE

HAY TOOL CO.

Opinion of the Court.

sential element enumerated in the second claim of the Boyd
patent.
"A reference to figure 2 of the Strickler patent (page 266)
clearly shows that his catch-block was adapted to be governed
by the lower ledge entirely, not to encounter the upper ledge of
the stop at all, and this more fully confirms me in the opinion
that the Strickler stop is an entirely different device in principle and operation from that of Boyd with its upper lugs /t.
"I further find the Boyd catch-block to be substantially
,different in the fact of the largely increased space between its
lugs and base, rendered necessary in order to enable it to
engage lugs 1 4, which are considerably higher up from lugs 10,
in order to enable said catch-block to remain at its extreme
height until it encounters stops /13 at either end of the device,
it being the operation of the Boyd machine not to stop the
carrier centrally to the stop h, but at either end of it at stop
M . It is obvious that Boyd's catch-block could not be made
operative upon a single ledge as can that of Strickler's; but,
,on the other hand, it is adapted to such a stop specifically as
Boyd shows in all of his figures in which it is shown, four in
number, to wit, in figures 2, 3, 5, and 6 of his drawings; and
no modification of the stop is shown or described further than
as seen in these four figures in his patent. The same is true
of Boyd's catch-block ; it being shown in all cases with a large
space up and down to enable it to work practically up just
such a stop as he shows."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.

66

Opinion of the Court.

Hay Elevator and Carrier.

F. B. STRICKLEOR.

Patented June 19, 1883.

.7.=-

J
I

.

VIRGINIA

v. TENNESSEE.

Statement of the Case.

We regard and adopt this comparison as correct; nor do we
find anything in the evidence or the argument of the appellant to the contrary.
Doubtless, if the Boyd patent contained an invention entirely new, and first adapted to the end sought, such differences might be regarded as formal and evasive. But, coming
as he did in the train of the numerous inventors that had preceded him, whose inventions had been patented and put into
practical use, we must conclude that Boyd, if entitled to anything, is only entitled to the precise devices described and
claimed in his patent. Of course, it follows that if the
defendants' specific devices are different from those of Boyd,
no combination of such devices could be deemed an infringement of any combination claimed by Boyd.
These views of the case bring us to the conclusion reached
by the court below, and its decree dismissing the bill is
accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision of the case.

VIRGINIA v. TENNESSEE.
ORIGINAL.

No.8. Original.

Submitted May 6,1895. -Decided

May 20,1895.

This court is without jurisdiction to enter a consent decree at this term in
a cause finally determined at October term, 1893, and improperly'retained
upon the docket at this term.

THE following papers were presented to the court in.
support of a motion for a decree in this case:
To G. W. PICKLE, Attorney General of Tennessee:
Take notice that the State of Virginia, by R. Taylor Scott,
her attorney general, on Monday, the 6th day of May, 1895,

